'Exactly I'll be there and back in something over three hours.'

'But, Will there's a broiling sun.'

'It will do me good. Anything that will take something out of me is what I want. I know I ought
to stay and read to you; but I couldn't do it. I've got the fidgets inside, if you know what
that means. To have the big hay-rick on fire, or something of that sort, is what would do me
most good.'

Then he started, and did walk to Denvir Sluice and back in three hours. The road from Plaistow
Hall to Denvir Sluice was not in itself interesting. It ran through a perfectly flat country,
without a tree. For the greater part of the way it was constructed on the top of a great bank
by the side of a broad dike, and for five miles its course was straight as a line. A country
walk less picturesque could hardly be found in England. The road, too, was very dusty, and
the sun was hot above Belton's head as he walked. But nevertheless, he persevered, going on
till he struck his stick against the waterfall which was called Denvir Sluice, and then returned
not once slackening his pace, and doing the whole distance at a rate somewhat above five miles
an hour. They used to say in the nursery that cold pudding is good to settle a man's love;
but the receipt which Belton tried was a walk of sixteen miles, along a dusty road, after dinner,
in the middle of an August day.

I think it did him some good. When he got back he took a long draught of home-brewed beer,
and then went up stairs to dress himself.

'What a state you are in,' Mary said to him when he showed himself for a moment in the sitting-room.

'I did it from milestone to milestone in eleven minutes, backwards and forwards, all along
the five-mile reach.'

Then Mary knew from his answer that the exercise had been of service to him, perceiving that
he had been able to take an interest in his own prowess as a walker.

'I only hope you won't have a fever,' she said.

'The people who stand still are they who get fevers,' he answered. 'Hard work never does harm
to any one. If John Bowden would walk his five miles an hour on a Sunday afternoon he wouldn't
have the gout so often.'

John Bowden was a neighbour in the next parish, and Mary was delighted to find that her brother
could take a pride in his performance.

By degrees Miss Belton began to know with some accuracy the way in which Will had managed his
affairs at Belton Castle, and was enabled to give him salutary advice.

'You see, Will,' she said, 'ladies are different from men in this, that they cannot allow themselves
to be in love so suddenly.'

'I don't see how a person is to help it. It isn't like jumping into a river, which a person
can do or not, just as he pleases.'

'But I fancy it is something like jumping into a river, and that a person can help it. What
the person can't help is being in when the plunge has once been made.'

'No, by George! There's no getting out of that river.'

'And ladies don't take the plunge till they've had time to think what may come after it. Perhaps
you were a little too sudden with our Cousin Clara?'

'Of course I was. Of course I was a fool, and a brute too.'

'I know you were not a brute, and I don't think you were a fool; but yet you were too sudden.
You see a lady cannot always make up her mind to love a man, merely because she is asked all
in a moment. She should have a little time to think about it before she is called upon for
an answer.'

'And I didn't give her two minutes.'

'You never do give two minutes to anyone do you, Will? But you'll be back there at Christmas,
and then she will have had time to turn it over in her mind.'

'And you think that I may have a chance?'

'Certainly you may have a chance.'

'Although she was so sure about it?'

'She spoke of her own mind and her own heart as she knew them then. But it depends chiefly
on this, Will whether there is any one else. For anything we know, she may be engaged now.'

'Of course she may.' Then Belton speculated on the extreme probability of such a contingency;
arguing within his own heart that of course every unmarried man who might see Clara would want
to marry her, and that there could not but be some one whom even she would be able to love.

When he had been home about a fortnight, there came a letter to him from Clara, which was a
great treasure to him. In truth, it simply told him of the completion of the cattle-shed, of
her father's health, and of the milk which the little cow gave; but she signed herself his
affectionate cousin, and the letter was very gratifying to him. There were two lines of a postscript,
which could not but flatter him: 'Papa is so anxious for Christmas, that you may be here again
and so, indeed, am I also.' Of course it will be understood that this was written before Clara's
visit to Perivale, and before Mrs Winterfield's death. Indeed, much happened in Clara's history
between the writing of that letter and Will Belton's winter visit to the Castle.

But Christmas came at last, all too slowly for Will and he started on his journey. On this
occasion he arranged to stay a week in London, having a lawyer there whom he desired to see;
and thinking, perhaps, that a short time spent among the theatres might assist him in his love
troubles.

CHAPTER XIV

MR WILLIAM BELTON TAKES A WALK IN LONDON

At the time of my story there was a certain Mr Green, a worthy attorney, who held chambers
in Stone Buildings, Lincoln's Inn, much to the profit of himself and family and to the profit
and comfort also of a numerous body of clients a man much respected in the neighbourhood of
Chancery Lane, and beloved, I do not doubt, in the neighbourhood of Bushey, in which delightfully
rural parish he was possessed of a genteel villa and ornamental garden. With Mr Green's private
residence we shall, I believe, have no further concern; but to him at his chambers in Stone
Buildings I must now introduce the reader of these memoirs. He was a man not yet forty years
of age, with still much of the salt of youth about him, a pleasant companion as well as a good
lawyer, and one who knew men and things in London, as it is given to pleasant clever fellows,
such as Joseph Green, to know them. Now Mr Green and his father before him had been the legal
advisers of the Amedroz family, and our Mr Joseph Green had had but a bad time of it with Charles
Amedroz in the last years of that unfortunate young man's life. But lawyers endure these troubles,
submitting themselves to the extravagances, embarrassments, and even villainy of the bad subjects
among their clients' families, with a good-humoured patience that is truly wonderful. That,
however, was all over now as regarded Mr Green and the Amedrozes, and he had nothing further
to do but to save for the father what relics of the property he might secure. And he was also
legal adviser to our friend Will Belton, there having been some old family connexion among
them, and had often endeavoured to impress upon his old client at Belton Castle his own strong
conviction that the heir was a generous fellow, who might be trusted in everything. But this
had been taken amiss by the old squire, who, indeed, was too much disposed to take all things
amiss and to suspect everybody. 'I understand,' he had said to his daughter. 'I know all about
it. Belton and Mr Green have been dear friends always. I can't trust my own lawyer any longer.'
In all which the old squire showed much ingratitude. It will, however, be understood that these
suspicions were rife before the time of Belton's visit to the family estate.

Some four or five days before Christmas there came a visitor to Mr Green with whom the reader
is acquainted, and who was no less a man than the Member for Perivale. Captain Aylmer, when
Clara parted from him on the morning of her return to Belton Castle, had resolved that he would
repeat his offer of marriage by letter. A month had passed by since then, and he had not as
yet repeated it. But his intention was not altered. He was a deliberate man, who did not do
such things quite as quickly as his rival, and who upon this occasion had thought it prudent
to turn over more than once in his mind all that he proposed to do. Nor had he as yet taken
any definite steps as to that fifteen hundred pounds which he had promised to Clara in her
aunt's name, and which Clara had been, and was, so unwilling to receive. He had now actually
paid it over, having purchased government stock in Clara's name for the amount, and had called
upon Mr Green, in order that that gentleman, as Clara's lawyer, might make the necessary communication
to her.

'I suppose there's nothing further to be done?' asked Captain Aylmer.

'Nothing further by me,' said the lawyer. 'Of course I shall write to her, and explain that
she must make arrangements as to the interest. I am very glad that her aunt thought of her
in her last moments.'

'Mrs Winterfield would have provided for her before, had she known that everything had been
swallowed up by that unfortunate young man.'

'All's well that ends well. Fifteen hundred pounds are better than nothing.'

'Is it not enough?' said the captain, blushing.

'It isn't for me to have an opinion about that, Captain Aylmer. It depends on the nature of
her claim; and that again depends on the relative position of the aunt and niece when they
were alive together.'

'You are aware that Miss Amedroz was not Mrs Winterfield's niece?'

'Do not think for a moment that I am criticizing the amount of the legacy. I am very glad of
it, as, without it, there was literally no provision,--no provision at all.'

'You will write to herself?'

'Oh yes, certainly to herself. She is a better man of business than her father and then this
is her own, to do as she likes with it.'

'She can't refuse it, I suppose?'

'Refuse it!'

'Even though she did not wish to take it, it would be legally her property, just as though
it had been really left by the will?'

'Well; I don't know. I dare say you could have resisted the payment. But that has been made
now, and there seems to be an end of it.'

At this moment a clerk entered the room and handed a card to his employer. 'Here's the heir
himself,' said Mr Green.

'What heir?

'Will Belton the heir of the property which Mr Amedroz holds.' Captain Aylmer had soon explained
that he was not personally acquainted with Mr William Belton; but, having heard much about
him, declared himself anxious to make the acquaintance. Our friend Will, therefore, was ushered
into the room, and the two rivals for Clara's favour were introduced to each other. Each had
heard much of the other, and each had heard of the other from the same person. But Captain
Aylmer knew much more as to Belton than Belton knew in respect to him. Aylmer knew that Belton
had proposed to Clara and had been rejected; and he knew also that Belton was now again going
down to Somersetshire.

'You are to spend your Christmas, I believe, with our friends at Belton Castle?' said the captain.

'Yes and am now on my way there. I believe you know them also intimately.' Then there was some
explanation as to the Winterfield connexion, a few remarks as to the precarious state of the
old squire's health, a message or two from Captain Aylmer, which of course were of no importance,
and the captain took his leave.

Then Green and Belton became very comfortably intimate in their conversation, calling each
other Will and Joe for they were old and close friends. And they discussed matters in that
cozy tone of confidential intercourse which is so directly at variance with the tones used
by men when they ordinarily talk of business. 'He has brought me good news for your friend,
Miss Amedroz,' said the lawyer.

'What good news?'

'That aunt of hers left her fifteen hundred pounds, after all. Or rather, she did not leave
it, but desired on her death-bed that it might be given.'

'That's the same thing, I suppose?'

'Oh quite that is to say, it's the same thing if the person who has to hand over the money
does not dispute the legacy. But it shows how the old lady's conscience pricked her at last.
And after all it was a shabby sum, and should have been three times as much.'

'Fifteen hundred pounds! And that is all she will have when her father dies?'

'Every farthing, Will. You'll take all the rest.'

'I wish she wasn't going to have that.'

'Why? Why on earth should you of all men grudge her such a moderate maintenance, seeing that
you have not got to pay it?'

'It isn't a maintenance. How could it be a maintenance for such as her? What sort of maintenance
would it be?'

'Much better than nothing. And so you would feel if she were your daughter.'

'She shall be my daughter, or my sister, or whatever you like to call her. You don't think
that I'll take the whole estate and leave her to starve on the interest of fifteen hundred
pounds a year!'

'You'd better make her your wife at once, Will.'

Will Belton blushed as he answered, 'That, perhaps, would be easier said than done. That is
not in my power even if I should wish it. But the other is in my power.'

'Will, take my advice, and don't make any romantic promises when you are down at Belton. You'll
be sure to regret them if you do. And you should remember that in truth Miss Amedroz has no
greater claim on you than any other lady in the land.'

'Isn't she my cousin?'

'Well yes. She is your cousin, but a distant one only; and I'm not aware that cousinship gives
any claim.'

'Who is she to have a claim on? I'm the nearest she has got. Besides, am not I going to take
all the property which ought to be hers?'

'That's just it. There's no such ought in the case. The property is as much your own as this
poker is mine. That's exactly the mistake I want you to guard against. If you liked her, and
chose to marry her, that would be all very well; presuming that you don't want to get money
in marriage.'

'I hate the idea of marrying for money.'

'All right. Then marry Miss Amedroz if you please. But don't make any rash undertakings to
be her father, or her brother, or her uncle, or her aunt. Such romance always leads a man into
trouble.'

'But I've done it already.'

'What do you mean?'

'I've told her that I would be her brother, and that as long as I had a shilling she should
never want sixpence. And I mean it. And as for what you say about romance and repenting it,
that simply comes from your being a lawyer.'

'Thank ye, Will.'

'If one goes to a chemist, of course one gets physic, and has to put up with the bad smells.'

'Thank you again.'

'But the chemist may be a very good sort of fellow at home all the same, and have a cupboard
full of sweetmeats and a garden full of flowers. However, the thing is done as far as I am
concerned, and I can almost find it in my heart to be sorry that Clara has got this driblet
of money. Fifteen hundred pounds! It would keep her out of the workhouse, and that is about all.'

'If you knew how many ladies in her position would think that the heavens had rained wealth
upon them if some one would give them fifteen hundred pounds!'

'Very well. At any rate I won't take it away from her. And now I want you to tell me something
else. Do you remember a fellow we used to know named Berdmore?'

'Philip Berdmore?'

'He may have been Philip, or Daniel, or Jeremiah, for anything I know. But the man I mean was
very much given to taking his liquor freely.'

'That was Jack Berdmore, Philip's brother. Oh yes, I remember him. He's dead now. He drank
himself to death at last, out in India.'

'He was in the army?'

'Yes and what a pleasant fellow he was at times! I see Phil constantly, and Phil's wife, but
they never speak of Jack.'

'He got married, didn't he, after we used to see him?'

Oh yes he and Phil married sisters. It was a sad affair, that.'

'I remember being with him and her and the sister too, after they were engaged, and he got
so drunk that we were obliged to take him away. There was a large party of us at Richmond,
but I don't think you were there.'

'But I heard of it'

'And she was a Miss Vigo?'

'Exactly. I see the younger sister constantly. Phil isn't very rich, and he's got a lot of
children but he's very happy.'

'What became of the other sister?

'Of Jack's wife?'

'Yes. What became of her?'

'I haven't an idea. Something bad, I suppose, as they never speak of her.'

'And how long is he dead?'

'He died about three years since. I only knew it from Phil's telling me that he was in mourning
for him. Then he did speak of him for a moment or two, and I came to know that he had carried
on to the end in the same way. If a fellow takes to drink in this country, he'll never get
cured in India.'

'I suppose not.'

'Never.'

'And now I want to find out something about his widow.'

'And why?'

'Ah I'm not sure that I can tell you why. Indeed I'm sure that I cannot. But still you might
be able to assist me.'

'There were heaps of people who used to know the Vigos,' said the lawyer.

'No end of people though I couldn't for the life of me say who any of them were.'

'They used to come out in London with an aunt, but nobody knew much about her. I fancy they
had neither father nor mother.'

'They were very pretty.'

'And how well they danced. I don't think I ever knew a girl who danced so pleasantly giving
herself no airs, you know as Mary Vigo.'

'Her name was Mary,' said Belton, remembering that Mrs Askerton's name was also Mary.

'Jack Berdmore married Mary.'

'Well now, Joe, you must find out for me what became of her. Was she with her husband when
he died?'

'Nobody was with him. Phil told me so. No one, that is, but a young lieutenant and his own
servant. It was very sad. He had D.T., and all that sort of thing.'

'And where was she?'

'At Jericho, for anything that I know.'

'Will you find out?' Then Mr Joseph Green thought for a moment of his capabilities in that
line, and having made an engagement to dine with his friend at his club on the evening before
Will left London, said at last that he thought he could find out through certain mutual friends
who had known the Berdmores in the old days. 'But the fact is,' said the lawyer, 'that the
world is so good-natured instead of being ill-natured, as people say that it always forgets
those who want to be forgotten.'

We must now go back for a few moments to Captain Aylmer and his affairs. Having given a full
month to the consideration of his position as regarded Miss Amedroz, he made up his mind to
two things. In the first place, he would at once pay over to her the money which was to be
hers as her aunt's legacy, and then he would renew his offer. To that latter determination
he was guided by mixed motives by motives which, when joined together, rarely fail to be operative.
His conscience told him that he ought to do so and then the fact of her having, as it were,
taken herself away from him, made him again wish to possess her. And there was another cause
which, perhaps, operated in the same direction. He had consulted his mother, and she had strongly
advised him to have nothing further to do with Miss Amedroz. Lady Aylmer abused her dead sister
heartily for having interfered in the matter, and endeavoured to prove to her son that he was
released from his promise by having in fact performed it. But on this point his conscience
interfered backed by his wishes and he made his resolve as has been above stated. On leaving
Mr Green's chambers he went to his own lodgings, and wrote his letter as follows:

'Mount Street, December, 186--.

'Dearest Clara,

'When you parted from me at Perivale you said certain things about our engagement which I have
come to understand better since then, than I did at the time. It escaped from me that my dear
aunt and I had had some conversation about you, and that I had told her what was my intention.
Something was said about a promise, and I think it was that word which made you unhappy. At
such a time as that when I and my aunt were talking together, and when she was, as she well
knew, on her deathbed, things will be said which would not be thought of in other circumstances.
I can only assure you now, that the promise I gave her was a promise to do that which I had
previously resolved upon doing. If you can believe what I say on this head, that ought to be
sufficient to remove the feeling which induced you to break our engagement.

'I now write to renew my offer to you, and to assure you that I do so with my whole heart.
You will forgive me if I tell you that I cannot fail to remember, and always to bear in my
mind, the sweet assurances which you gave me of your regard for myself. As I do not know that
anything has occurred to alter your opinion of me, I write this letter in strong hope that
it may be successful. I believe that your fear was in respect to my affection for you, not
as to yours for me. If this was so, I can assure you that there is no necessity for such fear.

'I need not tell you that I shall expect your answer with great anxiety.

'Yours most affectionately,

'F. F. AYLMER.

'P.S. I have today caused to be bought in your name Bank Stock to the amount of fifteen hundred
pounds, the amount of the legacy coming to you from my aunt.'

This letter, and that from Mr Green respecting the money, both reached Clara on the same morning.
Now, having learned so much as to the position of affairs at Belton Castle, we may return to
Will and his dinner engagement with Mr Joseph Green.

'And what have you heard about Mrs Berdmore?' Belton asked, almost as soon as the two men were
together.

'I wish I knew why you want to know.'

'I don't want to do anybody any harm.'

'Do you want to do anybody any good?'

'Any good! I can't say that I want to do any particular good. The truth is, I think I know
where she is, and that she is living under a false name.'

'Then you know more of her than I do.'

'I don't know anything. I'm only in doubt. But as the lady I mean lives near to friends of
mine, I should like to know.'

'That you may expose her?'

'No by no means. But I hate the idea of deceit. The truth is, that any one living anywhere
under a false name should be exposed or should be made to assume their right name.'

'I find that Mrs Berdmore left her husband some years before he died. There was nothing in
that to create wonder, for he was a man with whom a woman could hardly continue to live. But
I fear she left him under protection that was injurious to her character.

'And how long ago is that?'

'I do not know. Some years before his death.'

'And how long ago did he die?'

'About three years since. My informant tells me that he believes she has since married. Now
you know all that I know.' And Belton also knew that Mrs Askerton of the cottage was the Miss
Vigo with whom he had been acquainted in earlier years.

After that they dined comfortably, and nothing passed between them which need be recorded as
essential to our story till the time came for them to part. Then, when they were both standing
at the club door, the lawyer said a word or two which is essential. 'So you're off tomorrow?'
said he.

'Yes; I shall go down by the express.'

'I wish you a pleasant journey. By the by, I ought to tell you that you won't have any trouble
in being either father or mother, or uncle or aunt to Miss Amedroz.'

'Why not?'

'I suppose it's no secret.'

'What's no secret?

'She's going to be married to Captain Aylmer.'

Then Will Belton started so violently, and assumed on a sudden so manifest a look of anger,
that his tale was at once told to Mr Green. 'Who says so?' he asked. 'I don't believe it.'

'I'm afraid it's true all the same, Will.'

'Who says it?'

'Captain Aylmer was with me today, and he told me. He ought to be good authority on such a
subject.'

'He told you that he was going to marry Clara Amedroz?'

'Yes, indeed.'

'And what made him come to you, to tell you?'

'There was a question about some money which he had paid to her, and which, under existing
circumstances, he thought it as well that he should not pay. Matters of that kind are often
necessarily told to lawyers. But I should not have told it to you, Will, if I had not thought
that it was good news.'

'It is not good news,' said Belton moodily.

'At any rate, old fellow, my telling it will do no harm. You must have learned it soon.' And
he put his hand kindly almost tenderly, on the other's arm. But Belton moved himself away angrily.
The wound had been so lately inflicted that he could not as yet forgive the hand that had seemed
to strike him.

'I'm sorry that it should be so bad with you, Will.'

'What do you mean by bad? It is not bad with me. It is very well with me. Keep your pity for
those who want it.' Then he walked off by himself across the broad street before the club door,
leaving his friend without a word of farewell, and made his way up into St. James's Square,
choosing, as was evident to Mr Green, the first street that would take him out of sight.

'He's hit, and hit hard,' said the lawyer, looking after him. 'Poor fellow! I might have guessed
it from what he said. I never knew of his caring for any woman before.' Then Mr Green put on
his gloves and went away home.

We will now follow Will Belton into St. James's Square, and we shall follow a very unhappy
gentleman. Doubtless he had hitherto known and appreciated the fact that Miss Amedroz had refused
his offer, and had often declared, both to himself and to his sister, his conviction that that
refusal would never be reversed. But, in spite of that expressed conviction, he had lived on
hope. Till she belonged to another man she might yet be his. He might win her at last by perseverance.
At any rate he had it in his power to work towards the desired end, and might find solace even
in that working. And the misery of his loss would not be so great to him as he found himself
forced to confess to himself before he had completed his wanderings on this night in not having
her for his own, as it would be in knowing that she had given herself to another man. He had
often told himself that of course she would become the wife of some man, but he had never yet
realized to himself what it would be to know that she was the wife of any one specified rival.
He had been sad enough on that moonlight night in the avenue at Plaistow when he had leaned
against the tree, striking his hands together as he thought of his great want; but his unhappiness
then had been as nothing to his agony now. Now it was all over and he knew the man who had
supplanted him.

How he hated him! With what an unchristian spirit did he regard that worthy captain as he walked
across St. James's Square, across Jermyn Street, across Piccadilly, and up Bond Street, not
knowing whither he was going. He thought with an intense regret of the laws of modern society
which forbid duelling forgetting altogether that even had the old law prevailed, the conduct
of the man whom he so hated would have afforded him no casus belli. But he was too far gone
in misery and animosity to be capable of any reason on the matter. Captain Aylmer had interfered
with his dearest wishes, and during this now passing hour he would willingly have crucified
Captain Aylmer had it been within his power to do so. Till he had gone beyond Oxford Street,
and had wandered away into the far distance of Portman Square and Baker Street, he had not
begun to think of any interest which Clara Amedroz might have in the matter on which his thoughts
were employed. He was sojourning at an hotel in Bond Street, and had gone thitherwards more
by habit than by thought; but he had passed the door of his inn, feeling it to be impossible
to render himself up to his bed in his present disturbed mood. As he was passing the house
in Bond Street he had been intent on the destruction of Captain Aylmer and had almost determined
that if Captain Aylmer could not be made to vanish into eternity, he must make up his mind
to go that road himself.

It was out of the question that he should go down to Belton. As to that he had come to a very
decided opinion by the time that he had crossed Oxford Street. Go down to see her, when she
had treated him after this fashion I No, indeed. She wanted no brother now. She had chosen
to trust herself to this other man, and he, Will Belton, would not interfere further in her
affairs. Then he drew upon his imagination for a picture of the future, in which he portrayed
Captain Aylmer as a ruined man, who would probably desert his wife, and make himself generally
odious to all his acquaintance a picture as to the realization of which I am bound to say that
Captain Aylmer's antecedents gave no probability. But it was the looking at this self-drawn
picture which first softened the artist's heart towards the victim whom he had immolated on
his imaginary canvas. When Clara should be ruined by the baseness and villainy and general
scampishness of this man whom she was going to marry to whom she was about to be weak enough
and fool enough to trust herself then he would interpose and be her brother once again a broken-hearted
brother no doubt, but a brother efficacious to keep the wolf from the door of this poor woman
and her children. Then, as he thus created Captain Aylmer's embryo family of unprovided orphans
for after a while he killed the captain, making him to die some death that was very disgraceful,
but not very distinct even to his own imagination as he thought of those coming pledges of
a love which was to him so bitter, he stormed about the streets, performing antics of which
no one would have believed him capable who had known him as the thriving Mr William Belton,
of Plaistow Hall, among the fens of Norfolk.

But the character of a man is not to be judged from the pictures which he may draw or from
the antics which he may play in his solitary hours. Those who act generally with the most consummate
wisdom in the affairs of the world, often meditate very silly doings before their wiser resolutions
form themselves. I beg, therefore, that Mr Belton may be regarded and criticized in accordance
with his conduct on the following morning when his midnight rambles, which finally took him
even beyond the New Road, had been followed by a few tranquil hours in his Bond Street bedroom
for at last he did bring himself to return thither and put himself to bed after the usual fashion.
He put himself to bed in a spirit somewhat tranquillized by the exercise of the night, and
at last wept himself to sleep like a baby.

But he was by no means like a baby when he took him early on the following morning to the Paddington
Station, and booked himself manfully for Taunton. He had had time to recognize the fact that
he had no ground of quarrel with his cousin because she had preferred another man to him. This
had happened to him as he was recrossing the New Road about two o'clock, and was beginning
to find that his legs were weary under him. And, indeed, he had recognized one or two things
before he had gone to sleep with his tears dripping on to his pillow. In the first place, he
had ill-treated Joe Green, and had made a fool of himself in his friend's presence. As Joe
Green was a sensible, kind-hearted fellow, this did not much signify;--but not on that account
did he omit to tell himself of his own fault. Then he discovered that it would ill become him
to break his word to Mr Amedroz and to his daughter, and to do so without a word of excuse,
because Clara had exercised a right which was indisputably her own. He had undertaken certain
work at Belton which required his presence, and he would go down and do his work as though
nothing had occurred to disturb him. To remain away because of this misfortune would be to
show the white feather. It would be unmanly. All this he recognized as the pictures he had
painted faded away from their canvases. As to Captain Aylmer himself, he hoped that he might
never be called upon to meet him. He still hoped that, even as he was resolutely cramming his
shirts into his portmanteau before he began his journey. His Cousin Clara he thought he could
meet, and tender to her some expression of good wishes as to her future life, without giving
way under the effort. And to the old squire he could endeavour to make himself pleasant, speaking
of the relief from all trouble which this marriage with Captain Aylmer would afford for now,
in his cooler moments, he could perceive that Captain Aylmer was not a man apt to ruin himself,
or his wife and children. But to Captain Aylmer himself, he could not bring himself to say
pleasant things or to express pleasant wishes. She who was to be Captain Aylmer's wife, who
loved him, would of course have told him what had occurred up among the rocks in Belton Park;
and if that was so, any meeting between Will and Captain Aylmer would be death to the former.

Thinking of all this he journeyed down to Taunton, and thinking of all this he made his way
from Taunton across to Belton Park.

CHAPTER XV

EVIL WORDS

Clara Amedroz had received her two letters together that, namely, from the attorney, and that
from Captain Aylmer and the result of those letters is already known. She accepted her lover's
renewed offer of marriage, acknowledging the force of his logic, and putting faith in the strength
of his assurances. This she did without seeking advice from any one. Who was there from whom
she could seek advice on such a matter as that who, at least, was there at Belton? That her
father would, as a matter of course, bid her accept Captain Aylmer, was, she thought, certain;
and she knew well that Mrs Askerton would do the same. She asked no counsel from any one, but
taking the two letters up to her own room, sat down to consider them. That which referred to
her aunt's money, together with the postscript in Captain Aylmer's letter on the same subject,
would be of the least possible moment if she could bring herself to give a favourable answer
to the other proposition. But should she not be able to do this should she hesitate as to doing
so at once then she must write to the lawyer in very strong terms, refusing altogether to have
anything to do with the money. And in such a case as this, not a word could she say to her
father either on one subject or on the other.

But why should she not accept the offer made to her? Captain Aylmer declared that he had determined
to ask her to be his wife before he had made any promise to Mrs Winterfield. If this were in
truth so, then the very ground on which she had separated herself from him would be removed.
Why should she hesitate in acknowledging to herself that she loved the man and believed him
to be true? So she sat herself down and answered both the letters writing to the lawyer first.
To him she said that nothing need be done about the money or the interest till he should see
or hear from Captain Aylmer again. Then to Captain Aylmer she wrote very shortly, but very
openly with the same ill-judged candour which her spoken words to him had displayed. Of course
she would be his; his without hesitation, now that she knew that he expressed his own wishes,
and not merely those of his aunt. 'As to the money,' she said, 'it would be simply nonsense
now for us to have any talk of money. It is yours in any way, and you had better manage about
it as you please. I have written an ambiguous letter to Mr Green, which will simply plague
him, and which you may go and see if you like.' Then she added her postscript, in which she
said that she should now at once tell her father, as the news would remove from his mind all
solicitude as to her future position. That Captain Aylmer did go to Mr Green we already know,
and we know also that he told Mr Green of his intended marriage.

Nothing was said by Captain Aylmer as to any proposed period for their marriage; but that was
only natural. It was not probable that any man would name a day till he knew whether or not
he was accepted. Indeed, Clara, on thinking over the whole affair, was now disposed to find
fault rather with herself than with her lover, and forgetting his coldness and formality at
Perivale, remembered only the fact of his offer to her, and his assurance now received that
he had intended to make it before the scene which had taken place between him and his aunt.
She did find fault with herself, telling herself that she had quarrelled with him without sufficient
cause and the eager loving candour of her letter to him was attributable to those self-accusations.

'Papa,' she said, after the postman had gone away from Belton, so that there might be no possibility
of any recall of her letter, 'I have something to tell you which I hope will give you pleasure.'

'It isn't often that I hear anything of that kind,' said he.

'But I think that this will give you pleasure. I do indeed. I am going to be married.'

'Going to what?'

'Going to be married, papa. That is, if I have your leave. Of course any offer of that kind
that I have accepted is subject to your approval.'

'And I have been told nothing about it!'

'It began at Perivale, and I could not tell you then. You do not ask me who is to be my husband.'

'It is not Will Belton?'

'Poor Will! No; it is not Will. It is Frederic Aylmer. I think you would prefer him as a son-in-law
even to my Cousin Will.'

'No I shouldn't. Why should I prefer a man whom I don't even know, who lives in London, and
who will take you away, so that I shall never see you again?'

'Dear papa;--don't speak of it in that way. I thought you would be glad to know that I was
to be so--so--so happy.'

'But why is it to be done this way,--of a sudden? Why didn't he come to me? Will came to me
the very first thing.'

'He couldn't come all the way to Belton very well particularly as he does not know you.'

'Will came here.'

'Oh, papa, don't make difficulties. Of course that was different. He was here when he first
thought of it. And even then he didn't think very much about it.'

'He did all that he could, I suppose?'

'Well yes. I don't know how that might be.' And Clara almost laughed as she felt the difficulties
into which she was creeping. 'Dear Will. He is much better as a cousin than as a husband.'

'I don't see that at all. Captain Aylmer will not have the Belton estate or Plaistow Hall.'

'Surely he is well enough off to take care of a wife. He will have the whole of the Perivale
estate, you know.'

'I don't know anything about it. According to my ideas of what is proper he should have spoken
to me first. If he could not come he might have written. No doubt my ideas may be old-fashioned,
and I'm told that Captain Aylmer is a fashionable young man.'

'Indeed he is not, papa. He is a hard-working Member of Parliament.'

'I don't know that he is any better for that. People seem to think that if a man is a Member
of Parliament he may do what he pleases. There is Thompson, the Member for Minehead, who has
bought some sort of place out by the moors. I never saw so vulgar, pigheaded a fellow in my
life. Being in Parliament used to be something when I was young, but it won't make a man a
gentleman now-a-days. It seems to me that none but brewers, and tallow-chandlers, and lawyers
go into Parliament now. Will Belton could go into Parliament if he pleased, but he knows better
than that. He won't make himself such a fool.'

This was not comfortable to Clara; but she knew her father, and allowed him to go on with his
grumbling. He would come round by degrees, and he would appreciate, if he could not be induced
to acknowledge, the wisdom of the step she was about to take.

'When is it to be?' he asked.

'Nothing of that kind has ever been mentioned, papa.'

'It had better be soon, if I am to have anything to do with it.' Now it was certainly the case
that the old man was very ill. He had not been out of the house since Clara had returned home;
and, though he was always grumbling about his food, he could hardly be induced to eat anything
when the morsels for which he expressed a wish were got for him.

'Of course you will be consulted, papa, before anything is settled.'

'I don't want to be in anybody's way, my dear.'

'And may I tell Frederic that you have given your consent?

'What's the use of my consenting or not consenting? If you had been anxious to oblige me you
would have taken your Cousin Will.'

'Oh, papa, how could I accept a man I didn't love?'

'You seemed to me to be very fond of him at first; and I must say, I thought he was ill-treated.'

'Papa, papa; do not say such things as that to me!'

'What am I to do? You tell me, and I can't altogether hold my tongue.' Then there was a pause.
'Well, my dear, as for my consent, of course you may have it if it's worth anything. I don't
know that I ever heard anything bad about Captain Aylmer.'

He had heard nothing bad about Captain Aylmer! Clara, as she left her father, felt that this
was very grievous. Whatever cause she might have had for discontent with her lover, she could
not but be aware that he was a man whom any father might be proud to welcome as a suitor for
his daughter. He was a man as to whom no ill tales had ever been told who had never been known
to do anything wrong or imprudent; who had always been more than respectable, and as to whose
worldly position no exception could be taken. She had been entitled to expect her father's
warmest congratulations, and her tidings had been received as though she had proposed to give
her hand to one whose character and position only just made it not imperative on the father
to withhold his consent! All this was hard, and feeling it to be so, she went upstairs, all
alone, and cried bitterly as she thought of it.

On the next day she went down to the cottage and saw Mrs Askerton. She went there with the
express purpose of telling her friend of her engagement desirous of obtaining in that quarter
the sympathy which her father declined to give her. Had her communication to him been accepted
in a different spirit, she might probably have kept her secret from Mrs Askerton till something
further had been fixed about her marriage; but she was in want of a few kind words, and pined
for some of that encouragement which ladies in love usually wish to receive, at any rate from
some one chosen friend. But when she found herself alone with Mrs Askerton she hardly knew
how to tell her news; and at first could not tell it at all, as that lady was eager in speaking
on another subject.

'When do you expect your cousin?' Mrs Askerton asked, almost as soon as Clara was seated.

'The day after tomorrow.'

'And he is in London now?'

'He may be. I dare say he is. But I don't know anything about it.'

'I can tell you then that he is. Colonel Askerton has heard of his being there.'

'You seem to speak of it as though there were some offence in it. Is there any reason why he
should not be in London if he pleases?'

'None in the least. I would much rather that he should be there than here.'

'Why so? Will his coming hurt you?'

'I don't like him. I don't like him at all and now you know the truth. You believe in him I
don't. You think him to be a fine fellow and a gentleman, whereas I don't think him to be either.'

'Mrs Askerton!'

'This is strong language, I know.'

'Very strong language.'

'Yes, my dear; but the truth is, Clara, that you and I, living together here this sort of hermit's
life, each seeing so much of the other and seeing nothing of anybody else, must either be real
friends, telling each other what we think, or we must be nothing. We can't go on with the ordinary
make-believes of society, saying little civil speeches and not going beyond them. Therefore
I have made up my mind to tell you in plain language that I don't like your cousin, and don't
believe in him.'

'I don't know what you mean by believing in a man.'

'I believe in you. Sometimes I have thought that you believe in me, and sometimes I have feared
that you do not. I think that you are good, and honest, and true; and therefore I like to see
your face and hear your voice though it is not often that you say very pleasant things to me.'

'Do I say unpleasant things?'

'I am not going to quarrel with you not if I can help it. What business has Mr Belton to go
about London making inquiries as to me? What have I done to him, that he should honour me so far?'

'Has he made inquiries?'

'Yes; he has. If you have been contented with me as I am if you are satisfied, why should he
want to learn more? If you have any question to ask me I will answer it. But what right can
he have to be asking questions among strangers?'

Clara had no question to ask, and yet she could not say that she was satisfied. She would have
been better satisfied to have known more of Mrs Askerton, but yet she had never condescended
to make inquiries about her friend. But her curiosity was now greatly raised; and, indeed,
Mrs Askerton's manner was so strange, her vehemence so unusual, and her eagerness to rush into
dangerous subjects so unlike her usual tranquillity in conversation, that Clara did not know
how to answer her.

'I know nothing of any questioning,' she said.

'I am sure you don't. Had I thought you did, much as I love you valuable as your society is
to me down in this desert I would never speak to you again. But remember if you want to ask
any questions, and will ask them of me of me I will answer them, and will not be angry.'

'But I don't want to ask any questions.'

'You may some day; and then you can remember what I say.'

'And am I to understand that you are determined to quarrel with my Cousin Will?'

'Quarrel with him! I don't suppose that I shall see him. After what I have said it is not probable
that you will bring him here, and the servant will have orders to say that I am not at home
if he should call. Luckily he and Colonel Askerton did not meet when he was here before.'

'This is the most strange thing I ever heard in my life.'

'You will understand it better, my dear, when he makes his communication to you.'

'What communication?'

'You'll find that he'll have a communication to make. He has been so diligent and so sharp
that he'll have a great deal to tell, I do not doubt. Only, remember, Clara, that if anything
that he tells you makes any difference in your feelings towards me, I shall expect you to come
to me and say so openly. If he makes his statement, let me make mine. I have a right to ask
for that, after what I have promised.'

'You may be sure that I will.'

'I want nothing more. I have no distrust in you none in the least. I tell you that I believe
in you. If you will do that, and will keep Mr William Belton out of my way during his visit
to these parts, I shall be satisfied.' For some time past Mrs Askerton had been walking about
the room, but, as she now finished speaking, she sat herself down as though the subject was
fully discussed and completed. For a minute or two she made an effort to resume her usual tranquillity
of manner, and in doing so attempted to smile, as though ridiculing her own energy. 'I knew
I should make a fool of myself when you came,' she said; and now I have done it.'

'I don't think you have been a fool at all, but you may have been mistaken.'

'Very well, my dear, we shall see. It's very odd what a dislike I took to that man the first
time I saw him.'

'And I am so fond of him!'

'Yes; he has cozened you as he has your father. I am only glad that he did not succeed in cozening
you further than he did. But I ought to have known you bettor than to suppose you could give
your heart of hearts to one who is--'

'Do not abuse him any more.'

'--Who is so very unlike the sort of people with whom you have lived. I may, at any rate, say
that.'

'I don't know that. I haven't lived much with any one yet--except papa, and my aunt, and you.'

'But you know a gentleman when you see him.'

'Come, Mrs Askerton, I will not stand this. I thought you had done with the subject, and now
you begin again. I had come here on purpose to tell you something of real importance that is,
to me; but I must go away without telling you, unless you will give over abusing my cousin.'

'I will not say a word more about him not at present.'

'I feel so sure that you are mistaken, you know.'

'Very well;--and I feel sure that you are mistaken. We will leave it so, and go to this matter
of importance.' But Clara felt it to be very difficult to tell her tidings after such a conversation
as that which had just occurred. When she had entered the room her mind had been tuned to the
subject, and she could have found fitting words without much difficulty to herself; but now
her thoughts had been scattered and her feelings hurt, and she did not know how to bring herself
back to the subject of her engagement. She paused, therefore, and sat with a doubtful, hesitating
look, meditating some mode of escape. 'I am all ears,' said Mrs Askerton; and Clara thought
that she discovered something of ridicule or of sarcasm in the tone of her friend's voice.

'I believe I'll put it off till another day,' she said.

'Why so? You don't think that anything really important to you will not be important to me also?'

'I'm sure of that, but somehow--'

'You mean to say that I have ruffled you?'

'Well perhaps; a little.'

'Then be unruffled again, like my own dear, honest Clara. I have been ruffled too, but I'll
be as tranquil now as a drawing-room cat.' Then Mrs Askerton got up from her chair, and seated
herself by Clara's side on the sofa. 'Come; you can't go till you've told me; and if you hesitate,
I shall think that you mean to quarrel with me.'

'I'll come to you tomorrow.'

'No, no; you shall tell me today. All tomorrow you'll be preparing for your cousin.'

'What nonsense!'

'Or else you'll come prepared to vindicate him, and then we shan't get on any further. Tell
me what it is today. You can't leave me in curiosity after what you have said.'

'You've heard of Captain Aylmer, I think.'

'Of course I've heard of him.'

'But you've never seen him?'

'You know I never have.'

'I told you that he was at Perivale when Mrs Winterfield died.'

'And now he has proposed, and you are going to accept him? That will indeed be important. Is
it so?--say. But don't I know it is so? Why don't you speak?'

'If you know it, why need I speak?'

'But it is so? Oh, Clara, I am so glad. I congratulate you with all my heart with all my heart.
My dearest, dearest Clara! What a happy arrangement! What a success! It is just as it should
be. Dear, good man! to come forward in that sensible way, and put an end to all the little
family difficulties!'

'I don't know so much about success. Who is it that is successful?'

'You, to be sure.'

'Then by the same measurement he must be unsuccessful.'

'Don't be a fool, Clara.'

'Of course I have been successful if I've got a man that I can love as my husband.'

'Now, my dear, don't be a fool. Of course all that is between you and him, and I don't in the
least doubt that it is all as it should be. If Captain Aylmer had been the elder brother instead
of the younger, and had all the Aylmer estates instead of the Perivale property, I know you
would not accept him if you did not like him.'

'I hope not.'

'I am sure you would not. But when a girl with nothing a year has managed to love a man with
two or three thousand a year, and has managed to be loved by him in return instead of going
through the same process with the curate or village doctor it is a success, and her friend
will always think so. And when a girl marries a gentleman, and a Member of Parliament, instead
of well, I'm not going to say anything personal her friends will congratulate her upon his
position. It may be very wicked, and mercenary, and all that; but it's the way of the world.'

'I hate hearing about the world.'

'Yes, my dear; all proper young ladies like you do hate it. But I observe that such girls as
you never offend its prejudices. You can't but know that you would have done a wicked as well
as a foolish thing to marry a man without an adequate income.'

'But I needn't marry at all.'

'And what would you live on then? Come Clara, we needn't quarrel about that. I've no doubt
he's charming, and beautiful, and--'

'He isn't beautiful at all; and as for charming--'

'He has charmed you at any rate.'

'He has made me believe that I can trust him without doubt, and love him without fear.'

'An excellent man! And the income will be an additional comfort; you'll allow that?'

'I'll allow nothing.'

'And when is it to be?'

'Oh,--perhaps in six or seven years.'

'Clara!'

'Perhaps sooner; but there's been no word said about time.'

'Is not Mr Amedroz delighted?'

'Not a bit. He quite scolded me when I told him.'

'Why what did he want?'

'You know papa.'

'I know he scolds at everything, but I shouldn't have thought he would have scolded at that.
And when does he come here?'

'Who come here?'

'Captain Aylmer.'

'I don't know that he is coming at all.'

'He must come to be married.'

'All that is in the clouds as yet. I did not like to tell you, but you mustn't suppose that
because I've told you, everything is settled. Nothing is settled.'

'Nothing except the one thing?'

'Nothing else.'

It was more than an hour after that before Clara went away, and when she did so she was surprised
to find that she was followed out of the house by Colonel Askerton. It was quite dusk at this
time, the days being just at their shortest, and Colonel Askerton, according to his custom,
would have been riding, or returning from his ride. Clara had been over two hours at the cottage,
and had been aware when she reached it that he had not as yet gone out. It appeared now that
he had not ridden at all, and, as she remembered to have seen his horse led before the window,
it at once occurred to her that he had remained at home with the view of catching her as she
went away. He came up to her just as she was passing through the gate, and offered her his
right hand as he raised his hat with his left. It sometimes happens to all of us in life that
we become acquainted with persons intimately that is, with an assumed intimacy whom in truth
we do not know at all. We meet such persons frequently, often eating and drinking in their
company, being familiar with their appearance, and well-informed generally as to their concerns;
but we never find ourselves holding special conversations with them, or in any way fitting
the modes of our life to the modes of their life. Accident has brought us together, and in
one sense they are our friends. We should probably do any little kindness for them, or expect
the same from them; but there is nothing in common between us, and there is generally a mutual
though unexpressed agreement that there shall be nothing in common. Miss Amedroz was intimately
acquainted with Colonel Askerton after this fashion. She saw him very frequently, and his name
was often on her tongue; but she rarely, if ever, conversed with him, and knew of his habits
only from his wife's words respecting them. When, therefore, he followed her through the garden
gate into the park, she was driven to suppose that he had something special to say to her.

'I'm afraid you'll have a dark walk, Miss Amedroz,' he said.

'It's only just across the park, and I know the way so well.'

'Yes of course. I saw you coming out, and as I want to say a word or two, I have ventured to
follow you. When Mr Belton was down here I did not have the pleasure of meeting him.'

'I remember that you missed each other.'

'Yes, we did. I understand from my wife that he will be here again in a day or two.'

'He will be with us the day after tomorrow.'

'I hope you will excuse my saying that it will be very desirable that we should miss each other
again.' Clara felt that her face became red with anger as she listened to Colonel Askerton's
words. He spoke slowly, as was his custom, and without any of that violence of expression which
his wife had used; but on that very account there was more, if possible, of meaning in his
words than in hers. William Belton was her cousin, and such a speech as that which Colonel
Askerton had made, spoken with deliberation and unaccompanied by any previous explanation,
seemed to her almost to amount to insult. But as she did not know how to answer him at the
spur of the moment, she remained silent. Then he continued, 'You may be sure, Miss Amedroz,
that I should not make so strange a request to you if I had not good reason for making it.'

'I think it a very strange request.'

'And nothing but a strong conviction of its propriety on my part would have induced me to make it.'

'If you do not want to see my cousin, why cannot you avoid him without saying anything to me
on the subject?'

'Because you would not then have understood as thoroughly as I wish you to do why I kept out
of his way. For my wife's sake and for yours, if you will allow me to say so I do not wish
to come to any open quarrel with him; but if we met, a quarrel would, I think, be inevitable.
Mary has probably explained to you the nature of his offence against us?'

'Mrs Askerton has told me something as to which I am quite sure that she is mistaken.'

'I will say nothing about that, as I have no wish at all to set you against your cousin. I
will bid you good-night now as you are close at home.' Then he turned round and left her.

Clara, as she thought of all this, could not but call to mind her cousin's remembrances about
Miss Vigo and Mr Berdmore. What if he made some inquiry as to the correctness of his old recollections?
Nothing, she thought, could be more natural. And then she reflected that, in the ordinary way
of the world, persons feel none of that violent objection to the asking of questions about
their antecedents which was now evinced by both Colonel and Mrs Askerton. But of one thing
she felt quite assured that her cousin, Will Belton, would make no inquiry which he ought not
to make; and would make no improper use of any information which he might obtain.

CHAPTER XVI

THE HEIR'S SECOND VISIT TO BELTON

Clara began to doubt whether any possible arrangement of the circumstances of her life could
be regarded as fortunate. She was very fond, in a different degree and after a different fashion,
of both Captain Aylmer and Mr Belton. As regarded both, her position was now exactly what she
herself would have wished. The man that she loved was betrothed to her, and the other man,
whom she loved indeed also as a brother, was coming to her in that guise,--with the understanding
that that was to be his position. And yet everything was going wrong! Her father, though he
did not actually say anything against Captain Aylmer, showed by a hundred little signs, of
which he was a skilful master, that the Aylmer alliance was distasteful to him, and that he
thought himself to be aggrieved in that his daughter would not marry her cousin; whereas, over
at the cottage, there was a still more bitter feeling against Mr Belton,--a feeling so bitter,
that it almost induced Clara to wish that her cousin was not coming to them.

But the cousin did come, and was driven up to the door in the gig from Taunton, just as had
been the case on his previous visit. Then, however, he had come in the full daylight, and the
hay-carts had been about, and all the prettiness and warmth of summer had been there; now it
was mid-winter, and there had been some slight beginnings of snow, and the wind was moaning
about the old tower, and the outside of the house looked very unpleasant from the hall-door.
As it had become dusk in the afternoon, the old squire had been very careful in his orders
as to preparations for Will's comfort,--as though Clara would have forgotten all those things
in the preoccupation of her mind, caused by the constancy of her thoughts towards Will's rival.
He even went so far as to creep across the upstairs landing-place to see that the fire was
lighted in Will's room, this being the first time that he had left his chamber for many days
and bad given special orders as to the food which was to be prepared for Will's dinner in a
very different spirit from that which had dictated some former orders when Will was about to
make his first visit, and when his coming had been regarded by the old man as a heartless,
indelicate, and almost hostile proceeding.

'I wish I could go down to receive him,' said Mr Amedroz, plaintively. 'I hope he won't take
it amiss.'

'You may be sure he won't do that.'

'Perhaps I can tomorrow.'

'Dear papa, you had better not think of it till the weather is milder.'

'Milder! how is it to get milder at this time of the year?'

'Of course he'll come up to you, papa.'

'He's very good. I know he's very good. No one also would do as much.'

Clara understood accurately what all this meant. Of course she was glad that her father should
feel so kindly towards her cousin, and think so much of his coming; but every word said by
the old man in praise of Will Belton implied an equal amount of dispraise as regarded Captain
Aylmer, and contained a reproach against his daughter for having refused the former and accepted
the latter.

Clara was in the hall when Belton arrived, and received him as he entered, enveloped in his
damp great-coats. 'It is so good of you to come in such weather,' she said.

'Nice seasonable weather, I call it,' he said. It was the same comfortable, hearty, satisfactory
voice which had done so much towards making his way for him on his first arrival at Belton
Castle The voices to which Clara was most accustomed were querulous as though the world had
been found by the owners of them to be but a bad place. But Belton's voice seemed to speak
of cheery days and happy friends, and a general state of things which made life worth having.
Nevertheless, forty-eight hours had not yet passed over his head since he was walking about
London in such misery that he had almost cursed the hour in which he was born. His misery still
remained with him, as black now as it had been then; and yet his voice was cheery. The sick
birds, we are told, creep into holes, that they may die alone and unnoticed; and the wounded
beasts hide themselves that their grief may not be seen of their fellows. A man has the same
instinct to conceal the weakness of his sufferings; but, if he be a man, he hides it in his
own heart, keeping it for solitude and the watches of the night, while to the outer world he
carries a face on which his care has made no marks.

'You will be sorry to hear that papa is too ill to come downstairs.'

'Is he, indeed? I am truly sorry. I had heard he was ill; but did not know he was so ill as that.'

'Perhaps he fancies himself weaker than he is.'

'We must try and cure him of that. I can see him, I hope?'

'Oh dear, yes. He is most anxious for you to go to him. As soon as ever you can come upstairs
I will take you.' He had already stripped himself of his wrappings, and declaring himself ready,
at once followed Clara to the squire's room.

'I'm sorry, sir, to find you in this way,' he said.

'I'm very poorly, Will very,' said the squire, putting out his hand as though he were barely
able to lift it above his knee. Now it certainly was the fact that half an hour before he had
been walking across the passage.

'We must see if we can't soon make you better among us,' said Will.

The squire shook his head with a slow, melancholy movement, not raising his eyes from the ground.
'I don't think you'll ever see me much better, Will,' he said. And yet half an hour since he
had been talking of being down in the dining-room on the next day. 'I shan't trouble you much
longer,' said the squire. 'You'll soon have it all without paying rent for it.'

This was very unpleasant, and almost frustrated Belton's attempts to be cheery. But he persevered
nevertheless. 'It'll be a long time yet before that day comes, sir.'

'Ah; that's easily said. But never mind. Why should I want to remain when I shall have once
seen her properly settled. I've nothing to live for except that she may have a home.'

On this subject it was quite impossible that Belton should say anything. Clara was standing
by him, and she, as he knew, was engaged to Captain Aylmer. So circumstanced, what could he
say as to Clara's settlement in life? That something should be said between him and the old
man, and something also between him and Clara, was a matter of course; but it was quite out
of the question that he should discuss Clara's prospects in life in presence of them both together.

'Papa's illness makes him a little melancholy,' said Clara.

'Of course of course. It always does,' said Will.

'I think he will be better when the weather becomes milder,' said Clara.

'I suppose I may be allowed to know how I feel myself,' said the squire. 'But don't keep Will
up here when he wants his dinner. There; that'll do. You'd better leave me now.' Then Will
went out to his old room, and a quarter of an hour afterwards he found himself seated with
Clara at the dinner-table; and a quarter of an hour after that the dinner was over, and they
had both drawn their chairs to the fire.

Neither of them knew how to begin with the other. Clara was under no obligation to declare
her engagement to her cousin, but yet she felt that it would be unhandsome in her not to do
so. Had Will never made the mistake of wanting to marry her himself, she would have done so
as a matter of course. Had she supposed him to cherish any intention of renewing that mistake
she would have felt herself bound to tell him so that he might save himself from unnecessary
pain. But she gave him credit for no such intention, and yet she could not but remember that
scene among the rocks. And then was she, or was she not, to say anything to him about the Askertons?
With him also the difficulty was as great. He did not in truth believe that the tidings which
he had heard from his friend the lawyer required corroboration; but yet it was necessary that
he should know from herself that she had disposed of her hand and it was necessary also that
he should say some word to her as to their future standing and friendship.

'You must be very anxious to see how your farm goes on,' said she.

He had not thought much of his agricultural venture at Belton for the last three or four days,
and would hardly have been vexed had he been told that every head of cattle about the place
had died of the murrain. Some general idea of the expediency of going on with a thing which
he had commenced still actuated him; but it was the principle involved, and not the speculation
itself, which interested him. But he could not explain all this, and he therefore was driven
to some cold agreement with her. 'The farm! you mean the stock. Yes; I shall go and have a
look at them early tomorrow. I suppose they're all alive.'

'Pudge says that they are doing uncommonly well.' Pudge was a leading man among the Belton
labourers, whom Will had hired to look after his concerns.

'That's all right. I dare say Pudge knows quite as much about it as I do.'

'But the master's eye is everything.'

'Pudge's eye is quite as good as mine; and probably much better, as he knows the country.'

'You used to say that it was everything for a man to look after his own interests.'

'And I do look after them. Pudge and I will go and have a look at every beast tomorrow, and
I shall look very wise and pretend to know more about it than he does. In stock-farming the
chief thing is not to have too many beasts. They used to say that half-stocking was whole profit,
and whole-stocking was half profit. If the animals have plenty to eat, and the rent isn't too
high, they'll take care of their owner.'

'But then there is so much illness.'

'I always insure.'

Clara perceived that the subject of the cattle didn't suit the present occasion. When he had
before been at Belton he had liked nothing so much as talking about the cattle-sheds, and the
land, and the kind of animals which would suit the place; but now the novelty of the thing
was gone and the farmer did not wish to talk of his farm. In her anxiety to find a topic which
would not be painful, she went from the cattle to the cow. 'You can't think what a pet Bess
has been with us. And she seems to think that she is privileged to go everywhere, and do anything.'

'I hope they have taken care that she has had winter food.'

'Winter food! Why Pudge, and all the Pudges, and all the family in the house, and all your
cattle would have to want, before Bessy would be allowed to miss a meal. Pudge always says,
with his sententious shake of the head, that the young squire was very particular about Bessy.'

'Those Alderneys want a little care that's all.'

Bessy was of no better service to Clara in her present difficulty than the less aristocratic
herd of common cattle. There was a pause for a moment, and then she began again. 'How did you
leave your sister, Will?'

'Much the same as usual. I think she has borne the first of the cold weather better than she
did last year.'

'I do so wish that I knew her.'

'Perhaps you will some day. But I don't suppose that you ever will.'

'Why not?'

'It's not likely that you'll ever come to Plaistow now and Mary never leaves it except to go
to my uncle's.'

Clara instantly knew that he had heard of her engagement, though she could not imagine from
what source he had heard it. There was something in the tone of his voice something especially
in the expression of that word 'now', which told her that it must be so. 'I should be so glad
to go there if I could,' she said, with that special hypocrisy which belongs to women, and
is allowed to them; 'but, of course, I cannot leave papa in his present state.'

'And if you did leave him you would not go to Plaistow.'

'Not unless you and Mary asked me.'

'And you wouldn't if we did. How could you?'

'What do you mean, Will? It seems as though you were almost savage to me.'

'Am I? Well I feel savage, but not to you.'

'Nor to any one, I hope, belonging to me.' She knew that it was all coming; that the whole
subject of her future life must now be discussed; and she began to fear that the discussion
might not be easy. But she did not know how to give it a direction. She feared that he would
become angry, and yet she knew not why. He had accepted his own rejection tranquilly, and could
hardly take it as an offence that she should now be engaged to Captain Aylmer.

'Mr Green has told me', said he, 'that you are going to be married.'

'How could Mr Green have known?'

'He did know at least I suppose he knew, for he told me.'

'How very odd.'

'I suppose it is true?' Clara did not make any immediate answer, and then he repeated the question.
'I suppose it is true?'

'It is true that I am engaged.'

'To Captain Aylmer?'

'Yes; to Captain Aylmer. You know that I had known him very long. I hope that you are not angry
with me because I did not write and tell you. Strange as it may seem, seeing that you had heard
it already, it is not a week yet since it was settled; and had I written to you, I could only
have addressed my letter to you here.'

'I wasn't thinking about that. I didn't specially want you to write to me. What difference
would it make?'

'But I should have felt that I owed it to your kindness and your regard for me.'

'My regard! What's the use of regard?'

'You are not going to quarrel with me, Will, because--because--because--. If you had really
been my brother, as you once said you would be, you could not but have approved of what I have
done.'

'But I am not your brother.'

'Oh, Will; that sounds so cruel!'

'I am not your brother, and I have no right to approve or disapprove.'

'I will not say that I could make my engagement with Captain Aylmer dependent on your approval.
It would not be fair to him to do so, and it would put me into a false position.'

'Have I asked you to make any such absurd sacrifice?'

'Listen to me, Will. I say that I could not do that. But, short of that, there is nothing I
would not do to satisfy you. I think so much of your judgment and goodness, and so very much
of your affection; I love you so dearly, that Oh, Will, say a kind word to me!'

'A kind word; yes, but what sort of kindness?'

'You must know that Captain Aylmer'

'Don't talk to me of Captain Aylmer. Have I said anything against him? Have I ventured to make
any objection? Of course, I know his superiority to myself. I know that he is a man of the
world, and that I am not; that he is educated, and that I am ignorant; that he has a position,
and that I have none; that he has much to offer, and that I have nothing. Of course, I see
the difference; but that does not make me comfortable.'

'Will, I had learned to love him before I had ever seen you.'

'Why didn't you tell me so, that I might have known there was no hope, and have gone away utterly
out of the kingdom? If it was all settled then, why didn't you tell me, and save me from breaking
my heart with false hopes?'

'Nothing was settled then. I hardly knew my own mind; but yet I loved him. There; cannot you
understand it? Have I not told you enough?'

'Yes, I understand it.'

'And do you blame me?'

He paused awhile before he answered her. 'No; I do not blame you. I suppose I must blame no
one but myself. But you should bear with me. I was so happy, and now I am so wretched.'

There was nothing that she could say to comfort him. She had altogether mistaken the nature
of the man's regard, and had even mistaken the very nature of the man. So much she now learned,
and could tell herself that had she known him better she would either have prevented this second
visit, or would have been careful that he should have learned the truth from herself before
he came. Now she could only wait till he should again have got strength to hide his suffering
under the veil of his own manliness.

'I have not a word to say against what you are doing,' he said at last; 'not a word. But you
will understand what I mean when I tell you that it is not likely that you will come to Plaistow.'

'Some day, Will, when you have a wife of your own--'

'Very well; but we won't talk about that at present, if you please. When I have, things will
be different. In the meantime your course and mine will be separate. You, I suppose, will be
with him in London, while I shall be,--at the devil as likely as not.'

'How can you speak to me in that way? Is that like being my brother?'

'I don't feel like being your brother. However, I beg your pardon, and now we will have done
with it. Spilt milk can't be helped, and my milk pans have got themselves knocked over. That's
all. Don't you think we ought to go up to your father again?'

On the following day Belton and Mr Amedroz discussed the same subject, but the conversation
went off very quietly. Will was determined not to exhibit his weakness before the father as
he had done before the daughter. When the squire, with a maundering voice, drawled out some
expression of regret that his daughter's choice had not fallen in another place, Will was able
to say that bygones must be bygones. He regretted it also, but that was now over. And when
the squire endeavoured to say a few ill-natured words about Captain Aylmer, Will stopped him
at once by asserting that the captain was all that he ought to be.

'And it would have made me so happy to think that my daughter's child should come to live in
his grandfather's old house,' murmured Mr Amedroz.

'And there's no knowing that he mayn't do so yet,' said Will. 'But all these things are so
doubtful that a man is wrong to fix his happiness upon them.' After that he went out to ramble
about, the place, and before the third day was over Clara was able to perceive that, in spite
of what he had said, he was as busy about the cattle as though his bread depended on them.

Nothing had been said as yet about the Askertons, and Clara had resolved that their name should
not first be mentioned by her. Mrs Askerton had prophesied that Will would have some communication
to make about herself, and Clara would at any rate see whether her cousin would, of his own
accord, introduce the subject. But three days passed by, and he had made no allusion to the
cottage or its inhabitants. This in itself was singular, as the Askertons were the only local
friends whom Clara knew, and as Belton had become personally acquainted with Mrs Askerton.
But such was the case; and when Mr Amedroz once said something about Mrs Askerton in the presence
of both Clara and Belton, they both of them shrank from the subject in a manner that made Clara
understand that any conversation about the Askertons was to be avoided. On the fourth day Clara
saw Mrs Askerton, but then Will Belton's name was not mentioned. There was therefore, among
them all, a sense of some mystery which made them uncomfortable, and which seemed to admit
of no solution. Clara was more sure than ever that her cousin had made no inquiries that he
should not have made, and that he would put no information that he might have to an improper
use. But of such certainty on her part she could say nothing.

Three weeks passed by, and it seemed as though Belton's visit were to come to an end without
any further open trouble. Now and then something was said about. Captain Aylmer; but it was
very little, and Belton made no further reference to his own feelings. It had come to be understood
that his visit was to be limited to a month; and to both him and Clara the month wore itself
away slowly, neither of them having much pleasure in the society of the other. The old squire
came down stairs once for an hour or two, and spent the whole time in bitter complaints. Everything
was wrong, and everybody was ill-treating him. Even with Will he quarrelled, or did his best
to quarrel, in regard to everything about the place, though at the same time he did not cease
to grumble at his visitor for going away and leaving him. Belton bore it all so well that the
grumbling and quarrelling did not lead to much; but it required all his good-humour and broad
common sense to prevent serious troubles and misunderstanding.

During the period of her cousin's visit at Belton, Clara received two letters from Captain
Aylmer, who was spending the Christmas holidays with his father and mother, and on the day
previous to that of her cousin's departure there came a third. In neither of these letters
was there much said about Sir Anthony, but they were all very full of Lady Aylmer. In the first
he wrote with something of the personal enthusiasm of a lover and therefore Clara hardly felt
the little drawbacks to her happiness which were contained in certain innuendoes respecting
Lady Aylmer's ideas, and Lady Aylmer's hopes, and Lady Aylmer's fears. Clara was not going
to marry Lady Aylmer, and did not fear but that she could hold her own against any mother-in-law
in the world when once they should be brought face to face. And as long as Captain Aylmer seemed
to take her part rather than that of his mother it was all very well. The second letter was
more trying to her temper, as it contained one or two small morsels of advice as to conduct
which had evidently originated with her ladyship. Now there is nothing, I take it, so irritating
to an engaged young lady as counsel from her intended husband's mamma. An engaged young lady,
if she be really in love, will take almost anything from her lover as long as she is sure that
it comes altogether from himself. He may take what liberties he pleases with her dress. He
may prescribe high church or low church if he be not, as is generally the case, in a condition
to accept, rather than to give, prescriptions on that subject. He may order almost any course
of reading providing that he supply the books. And he may even interfere with the style of
dancing, and recommend or prohibit partners. But he may not thrust his mother down his future
wife's throat. In answer to the second letter, Clara did not say much to show her sense of
objection. Indeed she said nothing. But in saying nothing she showed her objection, and Captain
Aylmer understood it. Then came the third letter, and as it contained matter touching upon
our story, it shall be given entire and I hope it may be taken by gentlemen about to marry
as a fair specimen of the sort of letter they ought not to write to the girls of their hearts:

Aylmer Castle, 19th January, 186--.

'Dearest Clara,--I got your letter of the 16th yesterday, and was sorry you said nothing in
reference to my mother's ideas as to the house at Perivale. Of course she knew that I heard
from you, and was disappointed when, I was obliged to tell her, that you had not alluded to
the subject. She is very anxious about you, and, having now given her assent to our marriage,
is of course desirous of knowing that her kindly feeling is reciprocated. I assured her that
my own Clara was the last person to be remiss in such a matter, and reminded her that young
ladies are seldom very careful in their mode of answering letters. Remember, therefore, that
I am now your guarantee, and send some message to relieve me from my liability.

'When I told her of your father's long illness, which she laments greatly, and of your cousin's
continued presence at Belton Castle, she seemed to think that Mr Belton's visit should not
be prolonged. When I told her that he was your nearest relative, she remarked that cousins
are the same as any other people,--which indeed they are. I know that my Clara will not suppose
that I mean more by this than the words convey. Indeed I mean less. But not having the advantage
of a mother of your own, you will not be sorry to know what are my mother's opinions on matters
which so nearly concern you.

'And now I come to another subject, as to which what I shall say will surprise you very much.
You know, I think, that my aunt Winterfield and I had some conversation about your neighbours,
the Askertons; and you will remember that my aunt, whose ideas on such matters were always
correct, was a little afraid that your father had not made sufficient inquiry respecting them
before he allowed them to settle near him as tenants. It now turns out that she is very far,
indeed, from what she ought to be. My mother at first thought of writing to you about this;
but she is a little fatigued, and at last resolved that under all the circumstances it might
be as well that I should tell you. It seems that Mrs Askerton was married before to a certain
Captain Berdmore, and that she left her first husband during his lifetime under the protection
of Colonel Askerton. I believe they, the Colonel and Mrs Askerton, have been since married.
Captain Berdmore died about four years ago in India, and it is probable that such a marriage
has taken place. But under these circumstances, as Lady Aylmer says, you will at once perceive
that all acquaintance between you and the lady should be brought to an end. Indeed, your own
sense of what is becoming to you, either as an unmarried girl or as my future wife, or indeed
as a woman at all, will at once make you feel that this must be so. I think, if I were you,
I would tell the whole to Mr Amedroz; but this I will leave to your own discretion. I can assure
you that Lady Aylmer has full proof as to the truth of what I tell you.

'I go up to London in February. I suppose I may hardly hope to see you before the recess in
July or August; but I trust that before that we shall have fixed the day when you will make
me the happiest of men.

'Yours, with truest affection,

'F. F. AYLMER.'

It was a disagreeable, nasty letter from the first line to the last. There was not a word in
it which did not grate against Clara's feelings not a thought expressed which did not give
rise to fears as to her future happiness. But the information which it contained about the
Askertons 'the communication,' as Mrs Askerton herself would have called it made her for the
moment almost forget Lady Aylmer and her insolence. Could this story be true? And if true,
how far would it be imperative on her to take the hint, or rather obey the order, which had
been given her? What steps should she take to learn the truth? Then she remembered Mrs Askerton's
promise 'If you want to ask any questions, and will ask them of me, I will answer them.' The
communication, as to which Mrs Askerton had prophesied, had now been made but it had been made
not by Will Belton, whom Mrs Askerton had reviled, but by Captain Aylmer, whose praises Mrs
Askerton had so loudly sung. As Clara thought of this, she could not analyse her own feelings,
which were not devoid of a certain triumph. She had known that Belton would not put on his
armour to attack a woman. Captain Aylmer had done so, and she was hardly surprised at his doing
it. Yet Captain Aylmer was the man she loved! Captain Aylmer was the man she had promised to
marry. But, in truth, she hardly knew which was the man she loved!

This letter came on a Sunday morning, and on that day she and Belton went to church together.
On the following morning early he was to start for Taunton. At church they saw Mrs Askerton,
whose attendance there was not very frequent. It seemed, indeed, as though she had come with
the express purpose of seeing Belton once during his visit. As they left the church she bowed
to him, and that was all they saw of each other throughout the month that he remained in Somersetshire.

'Come to me tomorrow Clara,' Mrs Askerton said as they all passed through the village together.
Clara muttered some reply, having not as yet made up her mind as to what her conduct must be.
Early on the next morning Will Belton went away, and again Clara got up to give him his breakfast.
On this occasion he had no thought of kissing her. He went away without having had a word said
to him about Mrs Askerton, and then Clara settled herself down to the work of deliberation.
What should she do with reference to the communication that had been made to her by Captain Aylmer?

CHAPTER XVII

AYLMER PARK

Aylmer Park and the great house of the Aylmers together formed an important and, as regarded
in some minds, an imposing country residence. The park was large, including some three or four
hundred acres, and was peopled, rather thinly, by aristocratic deer. It was surrounded by an
aristocratic paling, and was entered, at three different points, by aristocratic lodges. The
sheep were more numerous than the deer, because Sir Anthony, though he had a large income,
was not in very easy circumstances. The ground was quite flat; and though there were thin belts
of trees, and some ornamental timber here and there, it was not well wooded. It had no special
beauty of its own, and depended for its imposing qualities chiefly on its size, on its three
sets of double lodges, and on its old established character as an important family place in
the county. The house was of stone, with a portico of Ionic columns which looked as though
it hardly belonged of right to the edifice, and stretched itself out grandly, with two pretentious
wings, which certainly gave it a just claim to be called a mansion. It required a great many
servants to keep it in order, and the numerous servants required an experienced duenna, almost
as grand in appearance as Lady Aylmer herself, to keep them in order. There was an open carriage
and a closed carriage, and a butler, and two footmen, and three gamekeepers, and four gardeners,
and there was a coachman, and there were grooms, and sundry inferior men and boys about the
place to do the work which the gardeners and game-keepers and grooms did not choose to do themselves.
And they all became fat, and lazy, and stupid, and respectable together; so that, as the reader
will at once perceive, Aylmer Park was kept up in the proper English style. Sir Anthony very
often discussed with his steward the propriety of lessening the expenditure of his residence,
and Lady Aylmer always attended and probably directed these discussions; but it was found that
nothing could be done. Any attempt to remove a gamekeeper or a gardener would evidently throw
the whole machinery of Aylmer Park out of gear. If retrenchment was necessary Aylmer Park must
be abandoned, and the glory of the Aylmers must be allowed to pale. But things were not so
bad as that with Sir Anthony. The gardeners, grooms, and gamekeepers were maintained; ten domestic
servants sat down to four heavy meals in the servants' hall every day, and Lady Aylmer contented
herself with receiving little or no company, and with stingy breakfasts and bad dinners for
herself and her husband and daughter. By all this it must be seen that she did her duty as
the wife of an English country gentleman, and properly maintained his rank as a baronet.

He was a heavy man, over seventy years of age, much afflicted with gout, and given to no pursuit
on earth which was available for his comfort. He had been a hunting man, and he had shot also;
but not with that energy which induces a sportsman to carry on those amusements in opposition
to the impediments of age. He had been, and still was, a county magistrate; but he had never
been very successful in the justice-room, and now seldom troubled the county with his judicial
incompetence. He had been fond of good dinners and good wine, and still, on occasions, would
make attempts at enjoyment in that line; but the gout and Lady Aylmer together were too many
for him, and he had but small opportunity for filling up the blanks of his existence out of
the kitchen or cellar. He was a big man, with a broad chest, and a red face, and a quantity
of white hair and was much given to abusing his servants. He took some pleasure in standing,
with two sticks, on the top of the steps before his own front door, and railing at any one
who came in his way. But he could not do this when Lady Aylmer was by; and his dependents,
knowing his habits, had fallen into an ill-natured way of deserting the side of the house which
he frequented. With his eldest son, Anthony Aylmer, he was not on very good terms; and though
there was no positive quarrel, the heir did not often come to Aylmer Park. Of his son Frederic
he was proud and the best days of his life were probably those which Captain Aylmer spent at
the house. The table was then somewhat more generously spread, and this was an excuse for having
up the special port in which he delighted. Altogether his life was not very attractive; and
though he had been born to a baronetcy, and eight thousand a-year, and the possession of Aylmer
Park, I do not think that he was, or had been, a happy man.

Lady Aylmer was more fortunate. She had occupations of which her husband knew nothing, and
for which he was altogether unfit. Though she could not succeed in making retrenchments, the
could and did succeed in keeping the household books. Sir Anthony could only blow up the servants
when they were thoughtless enough to come in his way, and in doing that was restricted by his
wife's presence. But Lady Aylmer could get at them day and night. She had no gout to impede
her progress about the house and grounds, and could make her way to places which the master
never saw; and then she wrote many letters daily, whereas Sir Anthony hardly ever took a pen
in his hand. And she knew the cottages of all the poor about the place, and knew also all their
sins of omission and commission. She was driven out, too, every day, summer and winter, wet
and dry, and consumed enormous packets of wool and worsted, which were sent to her monthly
from York. And she had a companion in her daughter, whereas Sir Anthony had no companion. Wherever
Lady Aylmer went, Miss Aylmer went with her, and relieved what might otherwise have been the
tedium of her life. She had been a beauty on a large scale, and was still aware that she had
much in her personal appearance which justified pride. She carried herself uprightly, with
a commanding nose and broad forehead; and though the graces of her own hair had given way to
a front, there was something even in the front which added to her dignity, if it did not make
her a handsome woman.

Miss Aylmer, who was the eldest of the younger generation, and who was now gently descending
from her fortieth year, lacked the strength of her mother's character, but admired her mother's
ways, and followed Lady Aylmer in all things at a distance. She was very good as indeed was
Lady Aylmer entertaining a high idea of duty, and aware that her own life admitted of but little
self-indulgence. She had no pleasures, she incurred no expenses; and was quite alive to the
fact that as Aylmer Park required a regiment of lazy, gormandizing servants to maintain its
position in the county, the Aylmers themselves should not be lazy, and should not gormandize.
No one was more careful with her few shillings than Miss Aylmer. She had, indeed, abandoned
a life's correspondence with an old friend because she would not pay the postage on letters
to Italy. She knew that it was for the honour of the family that one of her brothers should
sit in Parliament, and was quite willing to deny herself a new dress because sacrifices must
be made to lessen electioneering expenses. She knew that it was her lot to be driven about
slowly in a carriage with a livery servant before her and another behind her, and then eat
a dinner which the cook-maid would despise. She was aware that it was her duty to be snubbed
by her mother, and to encounter her father's ill-temper, and to submit to her brother's indifference,
and to have, so to say, the slightest possible modicum of personal individuality. She knew
that she had never attracted a man's love, and might hardly hope to make friends for the comfort
of her coming age. But still she was contented, and felt that she had consolation for it all
in the fact that she was am. Aylmer. She read many novels, and it cannot but be supposed that
something of regret would steal over her as she remembered that nothing of the romance of life
had ever, or could ever, come in her way. She wept over the loves of many women, though she
had never been happy or unhappy in her own. She read of gaiety, though she never encountered
it, and must have known that the world elsewhere was less dull than it was at Aylmer Park.
But she took her life as it came, without a complaint, and prayed that God would make her humble
in the high position to which it had pleased Him to call her. She hated Radicals, and thought
that Essays and Reviews, and Bishop Colenso, came direct from the Evil One. She taught the
little children in the parish, being specially urgent to them always to courtesy when they
saw any of the family and was as ignorant, meek, and stupid a poor woman as you shall find
anywhere in Europe.

It may be imagined that Captain Aylmer, who knew the comforts of his club and was accustomed
to life in London, would feel the dullness of the paternal roof to be almost unendurable. In
truth, he was not very fond of Aylmer Park, but he was more gifted with patience than most
men of his age and position, and was aware that it behoved him to keep the Fifth Commandment
if he expected to have his own days prolonged in the land. He therefore made his visits periodically,
and contented himself with clipping a few days at both ends from the length prescribed by family
tradition, which his mother was desirous of exacting. September was always to be passed at
Aylmer Park, because of the shooting. In September, indeed, the eldest son himself was wont
to be there probably with a friend or two and the fat old servants bestirred themselves, and
there was something of life about the place. At Christmas, Captain Aylmer was there as the
only visitor, and Christmas was supposed to extend from the middle of December to the opening
of Parliament. It must, however, be explained, that on the present occasion his visit had been
a matter of treaty and compromise. He had not gone to Aylmer Park at all till his mother had
in some sort assented to his marriage with Clara Amedroz. To this Lady Aylmer had been very
averse, and there had been many serious letters. Belinda Aylmer, the daughter of the house,
had had a bad time in pleading her brother's cause and some very harsh words had been uttered
but ultimately the matter had been arranged, and, as is usual in such contests, the mother
had yielded to the son. Captain Aylmer had therefore gone down a few days before Christmas,
with a righteous feeling that he owed much to his mother for her condescension, and almost
prepared to make himself very disagreeable to Clara by way of atoning to his family for his
folly in desiring to marry her.

Lady Aylmer was very plain-spoken on the subject of all Clara's shortcomings very plain-spoken,
and very inquisitive. 'She will never have one shilling, I suppose?' she said.

'Yes, ma'am.' Captain Aylmer always called his mother 'ma'am'. 'She will have that fifteen
hundred pounds that I told you of.'

'That is to say, you will have back the money which you yourself have given her, Fred. I suppose
that is the English of it?' Then Lady Aylmer raised her eyebrows and looked very wise.

'Just so, ma'am.'

'You can't call that having anything of her own. In point of fact she is penniless.'

'It is no good harping on that,' said Captain Aylmer, somewhat sharply.

'Not in the least, my dear; no good at all. Of course you have looked it all in the face. You
will be a poor man instead of a rich man, but you will have enough to live on that is if she
doesn't have a large family which of course she will.'

'I shall do very well, ma'am.'

'You might do pretty well, I dare say, if you could live privately at Perivale, keeping up
the old family house there, and having no expenses; but you'll find even that close enough
with your seat in Parliament, and the necessity there is that you should be half the year in
London. Of course she won't go to London. She can't expect it. All that had better be made
quite clear at once.' Hence had come the letter about the house at Perivale, containing Lady
Aylmer's advice on that subject, as to which Clara made no reply.

Lady Aylmer, though she had given her assent, was still not altogether without hope. It might
be possible that the two young people could be brought to see the folly and error of their
ways before it would be too late; and that Lady Aylmer, by a judicious course of constant advice,
might be instrumental in opening the eyes, if not of the lady, at any rate of the gentleman.
She had great reliance on her own powers, and knew well that a falling drop will hollow a stone.
Her son manifested no hot eagerness to complete his folly in a hurry, and to cut the throat
of his prospects out of hand. Time, therefore, would be allowed to her, and she was a woman
who could use time with patience. Having, through her son, dispatched her advice about the
house at Perivale,--which simply amounted to this, that Clara should expressly state her willingness
to live there alone whenever it might suit her husband to be in London or elsewhere,--she went
to work on other points, connected with the Amedroz family, and eventually succeeded in learning
something very much like the truth as to poor Mrs Askerton and her troubles. At first she was
so comfortably horror-stricken by the iniquity she had unravelled,--so delightfully shocked
and astounded,--as to believe that the facts as they then stood would suffice to annul the match.

'You don't tell me', she said to Belinda, 'that Frederic's wife will have been the friend of
such a woman as that!' And Lady Aylmer, sitting upstairs with her household books before her,
put up her great fat hands and her great fat arms, and shook her head,--front and all,--in
most satisfactory dismay.

'But I suppose Clara did not know it.' Belinda had considered it to be an act of charity to
call Miss Amedroz Clara since the family consent had been given.

'Didn't know it! They have been living in that sort of way that they must have been confidantes
in everything. Besides, I always hold that a woman is responsible for her female friends.'

'I think if she consents to drop her at once that is, absolutely to make a promise that she
will never speak to her again Frederic ought to take that as sufficient. That is, of course,
mamma, unless she has had anything to do with it herself.'

'After this I don't know how I'm to trust her. I don't indeed. It seems to me that she has
been so artful throughout. It has been a regular case of catching.'

'I suppose, of course, that she has been anxious to marry Frederic but perhaps that was natural.'

'Anxious look at her going there just when he had to meet his constituents. How young women
can do such things passes me! And how it is that men don't see it all, when it's going on just
under their noses, I can't understand. And then, her getting my poor dear sister to speak to
him when she was dying! I didn't think your aunt would have been so weak.' It will be thus
seen that there was entire confidence on this subject between Lady Aylmer and her daughter.

We know what were the steps taken with reference to the discovery, and how the family were
waiting for Clara's reply. Lady Aylmer, though in her words she attributed so much mean cunning
to Miss Amedroz, still was disposed to believe that that lady would show rather a high spirit
on this occasion; and trusted to that high spirit as the means for making the breach which
she still hoped to accomplish. It had been intended or rather desired that Captain Aylmer's
letter should have been much sharper and authoritative than he had really made it; but the
mother could not write the letter herself, and had felt that to write in her own name would
not have served to create anger on Clara's part against her betrothed. But she had quite succeeded
in inspiring her son with a feeling of horror against the iniquity of the Askertons. He was
prepared to be indignantly moral; and perhaps the misguided Clara might be silly enough to
say a word for her lost friend! Such being the present position of affairs, there was certainly
ground for hope.

And now they were all waiting for Clara's answer. Lady Aylmer had well calculated the course
of post, and knew that a letter might reach them by Wednesday morning. 'Of course she will
not write on Sunday,' she had said to her son, 'but you have a right to expect that not another
day should go by.' Captain Aylmer, who felt that they were putting Clara on her trial, shook
his head impatiently, and made no immediate answer. Lady Aylmer, triumphantly feeling that
she had the culprit on the hip, did not care to notice this. She was doing the best she could
for his happiness as she had done for his health, when in days gone by she had administered
to him his infantine rhubarb and early senna; but as she had never then expected him to like
her doses, neither did she now expect that he should be well pleased at the remedial measures
to which he was to be subjected.

No letter came on the Wednesday, nor did any come on the Thursday, and then it was thought
by the ladies at the Park that the time had come for speaking a word or two. Belinda, at her
mother's instance, began the attack not in her mother's presence, but when she only was with
her brother.

'Isn't it odd, Frederic, that Clara shouldn't write about those people at Belton?'

'Somersetshire is the other side of London, and letters take a long time.'

'But if she had written on Monday, her answer would have been here on Wednesday morning indeed,
you would have had it Tuesday evening, as mamma sent over to Whitby for the day mail letters.'
Poor Belinda was a bad lieutenant, and displayed too much of her senior officer's tactics in
thus showing how much calculation and how much solicitude there had been as to the expected letter.

'If I am contented I suppose you may be,' said the brother.

'But it does seem to me to be so very important! If she hasn't got your letter, you know, it
would be so necessary that you should write again, so that the--the--contamination should be
stopped as soon as possible.' Captain Aylmer shook his head and walked away. He was, no doubt,
prepared to be morally indignant,--morally very indignant,--at the Askerton iniquity; but he
did not like the word contamination as applied to his future wife.

'Frederic,' said his mother, later on the same day when the hardly-used groom had returned
from his futile afternoon's inquiry at the neighbouring post town,--'I think you should do
something in this affair.'

'Do what, ma'am? Go off to Belton myself?'

'No, no. I certainly would not do that. In the first place it would be very inconvenient to
you, and in the next place it would not be fair upon us. I did not mean that at all. But I
think that something should be done. She should be made to understand.'

'You may be sure, ma'am, that she understands as well as anybody.'

'I dare say she is clever enough at these kind of things.'

'What kind of things?'

'Don't bite my nose off, Frederic, because I am anxious about your wife.'

'What is it that you wish me to do? I have written to her, and can only wait for her answer.'

'It may be that she feels a delicacy in writing to you on such a subject; though I own However,
to make a long story short, if you like, I will write to her myself.'

'I don't see that that would do any good. It would only give her offence.'

'Give her offence, Frederic, to receive a letter from her future mother-in-law from me! Only
think, Frederic, what you are saying.'

'If she thought she was being bullied about this, she would turn rusty at once.'

'Turn rusty! What am I to think of a young lady who is prepared to turn rusty at once, too
because she is cautioned by the mother of the man she professes to love against an improper
acquaintance against an acquaintance so very improper?' Lady Aylmer's eloquence should have
been heard to be appreciated. It is but tame to say that she raised her fat arms and fat hands,
and wagged her front her front that was the more formidable as it was the old one, somewhat
rough and dishevelled, which she was wont to wear in the morning. The emphasis of her words
should have been heard, and the fitting solemnity of her action should have been seen. 'If
there were any doubt,' she continued to say, 'but there is no doubt. There are the damning
proofs.' There are certain words usually confined to the vocabularies of men, which women such
as Lady Aylmer delight to use on special occasions, when strong circumstances demand strong
language. As she said this she put her hand below the table, pressing it apparently against
her own august person; but she was in truth indicating the position of a certain valuable correspondence,
which was locked up in the drawer of her writing-table.

'You can write if you like it, of course; but I think you ought to wait a few more days.'

'Very well, Frederic; then I will wait. I will wait till Sunday. I do not wish to take any
step of which you do not approve. If you have not heard by Sunday morning, then I will write
to her on Monday.'

On the Saturday afternoon life was becoming inexpressibly disagreeable to Captain Aylmer, and
he began to meditate an escape from the Park. In spite of the agreement between him and his
mother, which he understood to signify that nothing more was to be said as to Clara's wickedness,
at any rate till Sunday after post-hour, Lady Aylmer had twice attacked him on the Saturday,
and had expressed her opinion that affairs were in a very frightful position. Belinda went
about the house in melancholy guise, with her eyes rarely lifted off the ground, as though
she were prophetically weeping the utter ruin of her brother's respectability. And even Sir
Anthony had raised his eyes and shaken his head, when, on opening the post-bag at the breakfast-table
an operation which was always performed by Lady Aylmer in person her ladyship had exclaimed,
'again no letter!' Then Captain Aylmer thought that he would fly, and resolved that, in the
event of such flight, he would give special orders as to the re-direction of his own letters
from the post-office at Whitby.

That evening, after dinner, as soon as his mother and sister had left the room, he began the
subject with his father. 'I think I shall go up to town on Monday, sir,' said he.

'So soon as that. I thought you were to stop till the 9th.'

'There are things I must see to in London, and I believe I had better go at once.'

'Your mother will be greatly disappointed.'

'I shall be sorry for that;--but business is business, you know.' Then the father filled his
glass and passed the bottle. He himself did not at all like the idea of his son's going before
the appointed time, but he did not say a word of himself. He looked at the red-hot coals, and
a hazy glimmer of a thought passed through his mind, that he too would escape from Aylmer Park,--if
it were possible.

'If you'll allow me, I'll take the dog-cart over to Whitby on Monday, for the express train.'

'You can do that certainly, but--'

'Sir?'

'Have you spoken to your mother yet?'

'Not yet. I will to-night.'

'I think she'll be a little angry, Fred.' There was a sudden tone of subdued confidence in
the old man's voice as he made this suggestion, which, though it was by no means a customary
tone, his son well understood. 'Don't you think she will be eh, a little?'

'She shouldn't go on as she does with me about Clara,' said the captain.

'Ah,--I supposed there was something of that. Are you drinking port?'

'Of course I know that she means all that is good,' said the son, passing back the bottle.

'Oh yes;--she means all that is good.'

'She is the best mother in the world.'

'You may say that, Fred;--and the best wife.'

'But if she can't have her own way altogether--' Then the son paused, and the father shook
his head.

'Of course she likes to have her own way,' said Sir Anthony.

'It's all very well in some things.'

'Yes;--it's very well in some things'

'But there are things which a man must decide for himself.'

'I suppose there are,' said Sir Anthony, not venturing to think what those things might be
as regarded himself.

'Now, with reference to marrying--'

'I don't know what you want with marrying at all, Fred. You ought to be very happy as you are.
By heavens, I don't know any one who ought to be happier. If I were you, I know--'

'But you see, sir, that's all settled.'

'If it's all settled, I suppose there's an end of it.'

'It's no good my mother nagging at one.'

'My dear boy, she's been nagging at me, as you call it, for forty years. That's her way. The
best woman in the world, as we were saying but that's her way. And it's the way with most of
them. They can do anything if they keep it up anything. The best thing is to bear it if you've
got it to bear. But why on earth you should go and marry, seeing that you're not the eldest
son, and that you've got everything on earth that you want as a bachelor, I can't understand.
I can't indeed, Fred. By heaven, I can't!' Then Sir Anthony gave a long sigh, and sat musing
awhile, thinking of the club in London to which he belonged, but which he never entered of
the old days in which he had been master of a bedroom near St. James's Street of his old friends
whom he never saw now, and of whom he never heard, except as one and another, year after year,
shuffled away from their wives to that world in which there is no marrying or giving in marriage.
Ah, well,' he said, 'I suppose we may as well go into the drawing-room. If it is settled, I
suppose it is settled. But it really seems to me that your mother is trying to do the best
she can for you. It really does.'

Captain Aylmer did not say anything to his mother that night as to his going, but as he thought
of his prospects in the solitude of his bedroom, he felt really grateful to his father for
the solicitude which Sir Anthony had displayed on his behalf. It was not often that he received
paternal counsel, but now that it had come he acknowledged its value. That Clara Amedroz was
a self-willed woman he thought that he was aware. She was self-reliant, at any rate and by
no means ready to succumb with that pretty feminine docility which he would like to have seen
her evince. He certainly would not wish to be 'nagged' by his wife Indeed he knew himself well
enough to assure himself that he would not stand it for a day. In his own house he would be
master, and if there came tempests he would rule them. He could at least promise himself that.
As his mother had been strong, so had his father been weak. But he had as he felt thankful
in knowing inherited his mother's strength rather than his father's weakness. But, for all
that, why have a tempest to rule at all? Even though a man do rule his domestic tempests, he
cannot have a very quiet house with them. Then again he remembered how very easily Clara had
been won. He wished to be just to all men and women, and to Clara among the number. He desired
even to be generous to her with a moderate generosity. But above all things he desired not
to be duped. What if Clara had in truth instigated her aunt to that deathbed scene, as his
mother had more than once suggested! He did not believe it. He was sure that it had not been
so. But what if it were so? His desire to be generous and trusting was moderate but his desire
not to be cheated, not to be deceived, was immoderate. Upon the whole might it not be well
for him to wait a little longer, and ascertain how Clara really intended to behave herself
in this emergency of the Askertons? Perhaps, after all, his mother might be right.

On the Sunday the expected letter came but before its contents are made known, it will be well
that we should go back to Belton, and see what was done by Clara in reference to the tidings
which her lover had sent her.

CHAPTER XVIII

MRS ASKERTON'S STORY

When Clara received the letter from Captain Aylmer on which so much is supposed to hang, she
made up her mind to say nothing of it to any one not to think of it if she could avoid thinking
of it till her cousin should have left her. She could not mention it to him; for, though there
was no one from whom she would sooner have asked advice than from him, even on so delicate
a matter as this, she could not do so in the present case, as her informant was her cousin's
successful rival. When, therefore, Mrs Askerton on leaving the church had spoken some customary
word to Clara, begging her to come to the cottage on the following day, Clara had been unable
to answer not having as yet made up her mind whether she would or would not go to the cottage
again. Of course the idea of consulting her father occurred to her or rather the idea of telling
him; but any such telling would lead to some advice from him which she would find it difficult
to obey, and to which she would be unable to trust. And, moreover, why should she repeat this
evil story against her neighbours?

She had a long morning by herself after Will had started, and then she endeavoured to arrange
her thoughts and lay down for herself a line of conduct. Presuming this story to be true, to
what did it amount? It certainly amounted to very much. If, in truth, this woman had left her
own husband and gone away to live with another man, she had by doing so at any rate while she
was doing so fallen in such a way as to make herself unfit for the society of an unmarried
young woman who meant to keep her name unblemished before the world. Clara would not attempt
any further unravelling of the case, even in her own mind but on that point she could not allow
herself to have a doubt. Without condemning the unhappy victim, she understood well that she
would owe it to all those who held her dear, if not to herself, to eschew any close intimacy
with one in such a position. The rules of the world were too plainly written to allow her to
guide herself by any special judgment of her own in such a matter. But if this friend of hers
having been thus unfortunate had since redeemed, or in part redeemed, her position by a second
marriage, would it be then imperative upon her to remember the past for ever, and to declare
that the stain was indelible? Clara felt that with a previous knowledge of such a story she
would probably have avoided any intimacy with Mrs Askerton. She would then have been justified
in choosing whether such intimacy should or should not exist, and would so have chosen out
of deference to the world's opinion. But now it was too late for that. Mrs Askerton had for
years been her friend; and Clara had to ask herself this question: was it now needful did her
own feminine purity demand that she should throw her friend over because in past years her
life had been tainted by misconduct.

It was clear enough at any rate that this was expected from her nay, imperatively demanded
by him who was to be her lord by him to whom her future obedience would be due. Whatever might
be her immediate decision, he would have a right to call upon her to be guided by his judgment
as soon as she would become his wife. And indeed, she felt that he had such right now unless
she should decide that no such right should be his, now or ever. It was still within her power
to say that she could not submit herself to such a rule as his but having received his commands
she must do that or obey them. Then she declared to herself, not following the matter out logically,
but urged to her decision by sudden impulse, that at any rate she would not obey Lady Aylmer.
She would have nothing to do, in any such matter, with Lady Aylmer. Lady Aylmer should be no
god to her. That question about the house at Perivale had been very painful to her. She felt
that she could have endured the dreary solitude at Perivale without complaint, if, after her
marriage, her husband's circumstances had made such a mode of living expedient. But to have
been asked to pledge her consent to such a life before her marriage, to feel that he was bargaining
for the privilege of being rid of her, to know that the Aylmer people were arranging that he,
if he would marry her, should be as little troubled with his wife as possible all this had
been very grievous to her. She had tried to console herself by the conviction that Lady Aylmer
not Frederic had been the sinner; but even in that consolation there had been the terrible
flaw that the words had come to her written by Frederic's hand. Could Will Belton have written
such a letter to his future wife?

In her present emergency she must be guided by her own judgment or her own instincts not by
any edicts from Aylmer Park! If in what she might do she should encounter the condemnation
of Captain Aylmer, she would answer him she would be driven to answer him by counter-condemnation
of him and his mother. Let it be so. Anything would be better than a mean, truckling subservience
to the imperious mistress of Aylmer Park.

But what should she do as regarded Mrs Askerton? That the story was true she was beginning
to believe. That there was some such history was made certain to her by the promise which Mrs
Askerton had given her.

'If you want to ask any questions, and will ask them of me, I will answer them.' Such a promise
would not have been volunteered unless there was something special to be told. It would be
best, perhaps, to demand from Mrs Askerton the fulfilment of this promise. But then in doing
so she must own from whence her information had come. Mrs Askerton had told her that the 'communication'
would be made by her Cousin Will. Her Cousin Will had gone away without a word of Mrs Askerton,
and now the 'communication' had come from Captain Aylmer!

The Monday and Tuesday were rainy days, and the rain was some excuse for her not going to the
cottage. On the Wednesday her father was ill, and his illness made a further excuse for her
remaining at home. But on the Wednesday evening there came a note to her from Mrs Askerton.
'You naughty girl, why do you not come to me? Colonel Askerton has been away since yesterday
morning, and I am forgetting the sound of my own voice. I did not trouble you when your divine
cousin was here for reasons; but unless you come to me now I shall think that his divinity
has prevailed. Colonel Askerton is in Ireland, about some property, and will not be back till
next week.'

Clara sent back a promise by the messenger, and on the following morning she put on her hat
and shawl, and started on her dreaded task. When she left the house she had not even yet quite
made up her mind what she would do. At first she put her lover's letter into her pocket, so
that she might have it for reference; but, on second thoughts, she replaced it in her desk,
dreading lest she might be persuaded into showing or reading some part of it. There had come
a sharp frost after the rain, and the ground was hard and dry. In order that she might gain
some further last moment for thinking, she walked round, up among the rocks, instead of going
straight to the cottage; and for a moment,--though the air was sharp with frost,--she sat upon
the stone where she had been seated when her Cousin Will blurted out the misfortune of his
heart. She sat there on purpose that she might think of him, and recall his figure, and the
tones of his voice, and the look of his eyes, and the gesture of his face. What a man he was;--so
tender, yet so strong; so thoughtful of others, and yet so self-sufficient! She had, unconsciously,
imputed to him one fault, that he had loved and then forgotten his love;--unconsciously, for
she had tried to think that this was a virtue rather than a fault;--but now,--with a full knowledge
of what she was doing, but without any intention of doing it,--she acquitted him of that one
fault. Now that she could acquit him, she owned that it would have been a fault. To have loved,
and so soon to have forgotten it! No; he had loved her truly, and alas! he was one who could
not be made to forget it. Then she went on to the cottage, exercising her thoughts rather on
the contrast between the two men than on the subject to which she should have applied them.

'So you have come at last!' said Mrs Askerton. 'Till I got your message I thought there was
to be some dreadful misfortune.'

'What misfortune?'

'Something dreadful! One often anticipates something very bad without exactly knowing what.
At least, I do. I am always expecting a catastrophe when I am alone that is and then I am so
often alone.'

'That simply means low spirits, I suppose?'

'It's more than that, my dear.'

'Not much more, I take it.'

'Once when we were in India we lived close to the powder magazine, and we were always expecting
to be blown up. You never lived near a powder magazine.'

'No, never unless there's one at Belton. But I should have thought that was exciting.'

'And then there was the gentleman who always had the sword hanging over him by the horse's hair.'

'What do you mean, Mrs Askerton?'

'Don't look so innocent, Clara. You know what I mean. What were the results at last of your
cousin's diligence as a detective officer?'

'Mrs Askerton, you wrong my cousin greatly. He never once mentioned your name while he was
with us. He did not make a single allusion to you, or to Colonel Askerton, or to the cottage.'

'He did not?'

'Never once.'

'Then I beg his pardon. But not the less has he been busy making inquiries.'

'But why should you say that there is a powder magazine, or a sword hanging over your head?'

'Ah, why?'

Here was the subject ready opened to her hand, and yet Clara did not know how to go on with
it. It seemed to her now that it would have been easier for her to commence it, if Mrs Askerton
had made no commencement herself. As it was, she knew not how to introduce the subject of Captain
Aylmer's letter, and was almost inclined to wait, thinking that Mrs Askerton might tell her
own story without any such introduction. But nothing of the kind was forthcoming. Mrs Askerton
began to talk of the frost, and then went on to abuse Ireland, complaining of the hardship
her husband endured in being forced to go thither in winter to look after his tenants.

'What did you mean', said Clara, at last, 'by the sword hanging over your head?'

'I think I told you what I meant pretty plainly. If you did not understand me I cannot tell
you more plainly.'

'It is odd that you should say so much, and not wish to say more.'

'Ah! you are making your inquiries now.'

'In my place would not you do so too? How can I help it when you talked of a sword? Of course
you make me ask what the sword is.'

'And am I bound to satisfy your curiosity?'

'You told me, just before my cousin came here, that if I asked any question you would answer me.'

'And I am to understand that you are asking such a question now?'

'Yes if it will not offend you.'

'But what if it will offend me offend me greatly? Who likes to be inquired into?'

'But you courted such inquiry from me.'

'No, Clara, I did not do that. I'll tell you what I did. I gave you to understand that if it
was needful that you should hear about me and my antecedents certain matters as to which Mr
Belton had been inquiring into in a manner that I thought to be most unjustifiable I would
tell you that story.'

'And do so without being angry with me for asking.'

'I meant, of course, that I would not make it a ground for quarrelling with you. If I wished
to tell you, I could do so without any inquiry.'

'I have sometimes thought that you did wish to tell me.'

'Sometimes I have almost.'

'But you have no such wish now?'

'Can't you understand? It may well be that one so much alone as I am living here without a
female friend, or even acquaintance, except yourself should often feel a longing for that comfort
which full confidence between us would give me.'

'Then why not'

'Stop a moment. Can't you understand that I may feel this, and yet entertain the greatest horror
against inquiry? We all like to tell our own sorrows, but who likes to be inquired into? Many
a woman burns to make a full confession, who would be as mute as death before a policeman.'

'I am no policeman.'

'But you are determined to ask a policeman's questions?'

To this Clara made no immediate reply. She felt that she was acting almost falsely in going
on with such questions, while she was in fact aware of all the circumstances which Mrs Askerton
could tell but she did not know how to declare her knowledge and to explain it. She sincerely
wished that Mrs Askerton should be made acquainted with the truth; but she had fallen into
a line of conversation which did not make her own task easy. But the idea of her own hypocrisy
was distressing to her, and she rushed at the difficulty with hurried, eager words, resolving
that, at any rate, there should be no longer any doubt between them.

'Mrs Askerton,' she said, 'I know it all. There is nothing for you to tell. I know what the
sword is.'

'What is it that you know?'

'That you were married long ago to Mr Berdmore.'

'Then Mr Belton did do me the honour of talking about me when he was here?' As she said this
she rose from her chair, and stood before Clara with flashing eyes.

'Not a word. He never mentioned your name, or the name of any one belonging to you. I have
heard it from another.'

'From what other?'

'I do not know that that signifies but I have learned it.'

'Well and what next?'

'I do not know what next. As so much has been told me, and as you had said that I might ask
you, I have come to you, yourself. I shall believe your own story more thoroughly from yourself
than from any other teller.'

'And suppose I refuse to answer you?'

'Then I can say nothing further.'

'And what will you do?'

'Ah that I do not know. But you are harsh to me, while I am longing to be kind to you. Can
you not see that this has been all forced upon me partly by yourself?'

'And the other part who has forced that upon you? Who is your informant? If you mean to be
generous, be generous altogether. Is it a man or a woman that has taken the trouble to rip
up old sorrows that my name may be blackened? But what matters? There I was married to Captain
Berdmore. I left him, and went away with my present husband. For three years I was a man's
mistress, and not his wife. When that poor creature died we were married, and then came here.
Now you know it all all all though doubtless your informant has made a better story of it.
After that, perhaps, I have been very wicked to sully the air you breathe by my presence.'

'Why do you say that,--to me?'

'But no;--you do not know it all. No one can ever know it all. No one can ever know how I suffered
before I was driven to escape, or how good to me has been he who--who' Then she turned her
back upon Clara, and, walking off to the window, stood there, hiding the tears which clouded
her eyes, and concealing the sobs which choked her utterance.

For some moments,--for a space which seemed long to both of them,--Clara kept her seat in silence.
She hardly dared to speak; and though she longed to show her sympathy, she knew not what to
say. At last she too rose and followed the other to the window. She uttered no words, however,
but gently putting her arm around Mrs Askerton's waist, stood there close to her, looking out
upon the cold wintry flower-beds not venturing to turn her eyes upon her companion. The motion
of her arm was at first very gentle, but after a while she pressed it closer, and thus by degrees
drew her friend to her with an eager, warm, and enduring pressure. Mrs Askerton made some little
effort towards repelling her, some faint motion of resistance; but as the embrace became warmer
the poor woman yielded herself to it, and allowed her face to fall upon Clara's shoulder. So
they stood, speaking no word, making no attempt to rid themselves of the tears which were blinding
their eyes, but gazing out through the moisture on the bleak wintry scene before them. Clara's
mind was the more active at the moment, for she was resolving that in this episode of her life
she would accept no lesson whatever from Lady Aylmer's teaching no, nor any lesson whatever
from the teaching of any Aylmer in existence. And as for the world's rules, she would fit herself
to them as best she could; but no such fitting should drive her to the unwomanly cruelty of
deserting this woman whom she had known and loved and whom she now loved with a fervour which
she had never before felt towards her.

'You have heard it all now,' said Mrs Askerton at last.

'And is it not better so?'

'Ah I do not know. How should I know?'

'Do you not know?' And as she spoke, Clara pressed her arm still closer. 'Do you not know yet?'
Then, turning herself half round, she clasped the other woman full in her arms, and kissed
her forehead and her lips.

'Do you not know yet?'

'But you will go away, and people will tell you that you are wrong.'

'What people?' said Clara, thinking as she spoke of the whole family at Aylmer Park.

'Your husband will tell you so.'

'I have no husband as yet to order me what to think or what not to think.'

'No not quite as yet. But you will tell him all this.'

'He knows it. It was he who told me.'

'What! Captain Aylmer?'

'Yes; Captain Aylmer.'

'And what did he say?'

'Never mind. Captain Aylmer is not my husband not as yet. If he takes me, he must take me as
I am, not as he might possibly have wished me to be. Lady Aylmer--'

'And does Lady Aylmer know it?'

'Yes. Lady Aylmer is one of those hard, severe women who never forgive.'

'Ah, I see it all now. I understand it all. Clara, you must forget me, and come here no more.
You shall not be ruined because you are generous.'

'Ruined! If Lady Aylmer's displeasure can ruin me, I must put up with ruin. I will not accept
her for my guide. I am too old, and have had my own way too long. Do not let that thought trouble
you. In this matter I shall judge for myself. I have judged for myself already.'

'And your father?'

'Papa knows nothing of it.'

'But you will tell him?'

'I do not know. Poor papa is very ill. If he were well I would tell him, and he would think
as I do.'

'And your cousin?'

'You say that he has heard it all.'

'I think so. Do you know that I remembered him the first moment that I saw him? But what could
I do? When you mentioned to me my old name, my real name, how could I be honest? I have been
driven to do that which has made honesty to me impossible. My life has been a lie; and yet
how could I help it? I must live somewhere and how could I live anywhere without deceit?'

'And yet that is so sad.'

'Sad indeed! But what could I do? Of course I was wrong in the beginning. Though how am I to
regret it, when it has given me such a husband as I have? Ah!--if you could know it all, I
think,--I think you would forgive me.'

Then by degrees she told it all, and Clara was there for hours listening to her story. The
reader will not care to hear more of it than he has heard. Nor would Clara have desired any
closer revelation; but as it is often difficult to obtain a confidence, so is it impossible
to stop it in the midst of its effusion. Mrs Askerton told the history of her life of her first
foolish engagement, her belief, her half-belief, in the man's reformation, of the miseries
which resulted from his vices, of her escape and shame, of her welcome widowhood, and of her
second marriage. And as she told it, she paused at every point to insist on the goodness of
him who was now her husband. 'I shall tell him this,' she said at last, 'as I do everything;
and then he will know that I have in truth got a friend.'

She asked again and again about Mr Belton, but Clara could only tell her that she knew nothing
of her cousin's knowledge. Will might have heard it all, but if so he had kept his information
to himself.

'And now what shall you do?' Mrs Askerton asked of Clara, at length prepared to go.

'Do? in what way? I shall do nothing.'

'But you will write to Captain Aylmer?'

'Yes I shall write to him.'

'And about this?'

'Yes I suppose I must write to him.'

'And what will you say?'

'That I cannot tell. I wish I knew what to say. If it were to his mother I could write my letter
easily enough.'

'And what would you say to her?'

'I would tell her that I was responsible for my own friends. But I must go now. Papa will complain
that I am so long away.' Then there was another embrace, and at last Clara found her way out
of the house and was alone again in the park.

She clearly acknowledged to herself that she had a great difficulty before her. She had committed
herself altogether to Mrs Askerton, and could no longer entertain any thought of obeying the
very plainly expressed commands which Captain Aylmer had given her. The story as told by Captain
Aylmer had been true throughout; but, in the teeth of that truth, she intended to maintain
her acquaintance with Mrs Askerton. From that there was now no escape. She had been carried
away by impulse in what she had done and said at the cottage, but she could not bring herself
to regret it. She could not believe that it was her duty to throw over and abandon a woman
whom she loved, because that woman had once, in her dire extremity, fallen away from the path
of virtue. But how was she to write the letter?

When she reached her father he complained of her absence, and almost scolded her for having
been so long at the cottage. 'I cannot see', said he, 'what you find in that woman to make
so much of her.'

'She is the only neighbour I have, papa.'

'And better none than her, if all that people say of her is true.'

'All that people say is never true, papa.'

'There is no smoke without fire. I am not at all sure that it's good for you to be so much
with her.'

'Oh, papa don't treat me like a child.'

'And I'm sure it's not good for me that you should be so much away. For anything I have seen
of you all day you might have been at Perivale. But you are going soon, altogether, so I suppose
I may as well make up my mind to it.'

'I'm not going for a long time yet, papa.'

'What do you mean by that?'

'I mean that there's nothing to take me away from here at present.'

'You are engaged to be married.'

'But it will be a long engagement. It is one of those engagements in which neither party is
very anxious for an immediate change.' There was something bitter in Clara's tone as she said
this, which the old man perceived, but could only half understand. Clara remained with him
then for the rest of the day, going down-stairs for five minutes to her dinner, and then returning
to him and reading aloud while he dozed. Her winter evenings at Belton Castle were not very
bright, but she was used to them and made no complaint.

When she left her father for the night she got out her desk and prepared herself for her letter
to her lover. She was determined that it should be finished that night before she went to bed.
And it was so finished; though the writing of it gave her much labour, and occupied her till
the late hours had come upon her. When completed it was as follows:--

'Belton Castle, Thursday Night.

'Dear Frederic,--I received your letter last Sunday, but I could not answer it sooner, as it
required much consideration, and also some information which I have only obtained today. About
the plan of living at Perivale I will not say much now, as my mind is so full of other things.
I think, however, I may promise that I will never make any needless difficulty as to your plans.
My cousin Will left us on Monday, so your mother need not have any further anxiety on that
head. It does papa good to have him here, and for that reason I am sorry that he has gone.
I can assure you that I don't think what you said about him meant anything at all particular.
Will is my nearest cousin, and of course you would be glad that I should like him which I do,
very much.

'And now about the other subject, which I own has distressed me, as you supposed it would;--I
mean about Mrs Askerton. I find it very difficult in your letter to divide what comes from
your mother and what from yourself. Of course I want to make the division, as every word from
you has great weight with me. At present I don't know Lady Aylmer personally, and I cannot
think of her as I do of you. Indeed, were I to know her ever so well, I could not have the
same deference for her that I have for the man who is to be my husband. I only say this, as
I fear that Lady Aylmer and I may not perhaps agree about Mrs Askerton.

'I find that your story about Mrs Askerton is in the main true. But the person who told it
you does not seem to have known any of the provocations which she received. She was very badly
treated by Captain Berdmore, who, I am afraid, was a terrible drunkard; and at last she found
it impossible to stay with him. So she went away. I cannot tell you how horrid it all was,
but I am sure that if I could make you understand it, it would go a long way in inducing you
to excuse her. She was married to Colonel Askerton as soon as Captain Berdmore died, and this
took place before she came to Belton. I hope you will remember that. It all occurred out in
India, and I really hardly know what business we have to inquire about it now.

'At any rate, as I have been acquainted with her a long time, and very intimately, and as I
am sure that she has repented of anything that has been wrong, I do not think that I ought
to quarrel with her now. Indeed I have promised her that I will not. I think I owe it you to
tell you the whole truth, and that is the truth.

'Pray give my regards to your mother, and tell her that I am sure she would judge differently
if she were in my place. This poor woman has no other friend here; and who am I, that I should
take upon myself to condemn her? I cannot do it. Dear Frederic, pray do not be angry with me
for asserting my own will in this matter. I think you would wish me to have an opinion of my
own. In my present position I am bound to have one, as I am, as yet, responsible for what I
do myself. I shall be very, very sorry, if I find that you differ from me; but still I cannot
be made to think that I am wrong. I wish you were here, that we might talk it over together,
as I think that in that case you would agree with me.

'If you can manage to come to us at Easter, or any other time when Parliament does not keep
you in London, we shall be so delighted to see you.

'Dear Frederic, Yours very affectionately,

'Clara Amedroz.'

CHAPTER XIX

MISS AMEDROZ HAS ANOTHER CHANCE

It was on a Sunday morning that Clara's letter reached Aylmer Park, and Frederic Aylmer found
it on his plate as he took his place at the breakfast-table. Domestic habits at Aylmer Park
had grown with the growth of years till they had become adamantine, and domestic habits required
prayers every morning at a quarter before nine o'clock. At twenty minutes before nine Lady
Aylmer would always be in the dining-room to make the tea and open the post-bag, and as she
was always there alone, she knew more about other people's letters than other people ever knew
about hers. When these operations were over she rang the bell, and the servants of the family,
who by that time had already formed themselves into line in the hail, would march in, and settle
themselves on benches prepared for them near the sideboard which benches were afterwards carried
away by the retiring procession. Lady Aylmer herself always read prayers, as Sir Anthony never
appeared till the middle of breakfast. Belinda would usually come down in a scurry as she heard
her mother's bell, in such a way as to put the army in the hail to some confusion; but Frederic
Aylmer, when he was at home, rarely entered the room till after the service was over. At Perivale
no doubt he was more strict in his conduct; but then at Perivale he had special interests and
influences which were wanting to him at Aylmer Park. During those five minutes Lady Aylmer
would deal round the letters to the several plates of the inmates of her house not without
looking at the post-office marks upon them; and on this occasion she had dealt a letter from
Clara to her son.

The arrival of the letter was announced to Frederic Aylmer before he took his seat.

'Frederic,' said her ladyship, in her most portentous voice, 'I am glad to say that at last
there is a letter from Belton.'

He made no immediate reply, but making his way slowly to his place, took up the little packet,
turned it over in his hand, and then put it into his pocket. Having done this, he began very
slowly with his tea and egg. For three minutes his mother was contented to make, or to pretend
to make, some effort in the same direction. Then her impatience became too much for her, and
she began to question him.

'Will you not read it, Frederic?'

'Of course I shall, ma'am.'

'But why not do so now, when you know how anxious we are?'

'There are letters which one would sooner read in private.'

'But when a matter is of so much importance--' said Belinda.

'The importance, Bel, is to me, and not to you,' said her brother.

'All we want to know is,' continued the sister, 'that she promises to be guided by you in this
matter; and of course we feel quite sure that she will.'

'If you are quite sure that must be sufficient for you.'

'I really think you need not quarrel with your sister,' said Lady Aylmer, 'because she is anxious
as to the--the respectability, I must say, for there is no other word, of a young lady whom
you propose to make your wife. I can assure you that I am very anxious myself,--very anxious
indeed.'

Captain Aylmer made no answer to this, but he did not take the letter from his pocket. He drank
his tea in silence, and in silence sent up his cup to be refilled. In silence also was it returned
to him. He ate his two eggs and his three bits of toast, according to his custom, and when
he had finished, sat out his three or four minutes as was usual. Then he got up to retire to
his room, with the envelope still unbroken in his pocket.

'You will go to church with us, I suppose?' said Lady Aylmer.

'I won't promise, ma'am; but if I do, I'll walk across the park so that you need not wait for me.'

Then both the mother and sister knew that the Member for Perivale did not intend to go to church
on that occasion. To morning service Sir Anthony always went, the habits of Aylmer Park having
in them more of adamant in reference to him than they had as regarded his son.

When the father, mother, and daughter returned, Captain Aylmer had read his letter, and had,
after doing so, received further tidings from Belton Castle further tidings which for the moment
prevented the necessity of any reference to the letter, and almost drove it from his own thoughts.
When his mother entered the library he was standing before the fire with a scrap of paper in
his hand.

'Since you have been at church there has come a telegraphic message,' he said.

'What is it, Frederic? Do not frighten me if you can avoid it!'

'You need not be frightened, ma'am, for you did not know him. Mr Amedroz is dead.'

'No!' said Lady Aylmer, seating herself.

'Dead!' said Belinda, holding up her hands.

'God bless my soul!' said the baronet, who had now followed the ladies into the room. 'Dead!
Why, Fred, he was five years younger than I am!'

Then Captain Aylmer read the words of the message:--'Mr Amedroz died this morning at five o'clock.
I have sent word to the lawyer and to Mr Belton.'

'Who does it come from?' asked Lady Aylmer.

'From Colonel Askerton.'

Lady Aylmer paused, and shook her head, and moved her foot uneasily upon the carpet. The tidings,
as far as they went, might be unexceptionable, but the source from whence they had come had
evidently polluted them in her ladyship's judgment. Then she uttered a series of inter-ejaculations,
expressions of mingled sorrow and anger.

'There was no one else near her,' said Captain Aylmer apologetically.

'Is there no clergyman in the parish?'

'He lives a long way off. The message had to be sent at once.'

'Are there no servants in the house? It looks,--it looks-- But I am the last person in the
world to form a harsh judgment of a young woman at such a moment as this. What did she say
in her letter, Fred?'

Captain Aylmer had devoted two hours of consideration to the letter before the telegram had
come to relieve his mind by a fresh subject, and in those two hours he had not been able to
extract much of comfort out of the document. It was, as he felt, a stubborn, stiff-necked,
disobedient, almost rebellious letter. It contained a manifest defiance of his mother, and
exhibited doctrines of most questionable morality. It had become to him a matter of doubt whether
he could possibly marry a woman who could entertain such ideas and write such a letter. If
the doubt was to be decided in his own mind against Clara, he had better show the letter at
once to his mother, and allow her ladyship to fight the battle for him a task which, as he
well knew, her ladyship would not be slow to undertake. But he had not succeeded in answering
the question satisfactorily to himself when the telegram arrived and diverted all his thoughts.
Now that Mr Amedroz was dead, the whole thing might be different. Clara would come away from
Belton and Mrs Askerton, and begin life, as it were, afresh It seemed as though in such an
emergency she ought to have another chance; and therefore he did not hasten to pronounce his
judgment. Lady Aylmer also felt something of this, and forbore to press her question when it
was not answered.

'She will have to leave Belton now, I suppose?' said Sir Anthony.

'The property will belong to a distant cousin a Mr William Belton.'

'And where will she go?' said Lady Aylmer. 'I suppose she has no place that she can call her home?'

'Would it not be a good thing to ask her here?' said Belinda. Such a question as that was very
rash on the part of Miss Aylmer. In the first place, the selection of guests for Aylmer Park
was rarely left to her; and in this special case she should have understood that such a proposal
should have been fully considered by Lady Aylmer before it reached Frederic's ears.

'I think it would be a very good plan,' said Captain Aylmer, generously.

Lady Aylmer shook her head. 'I should like much to know what she has said about that unfortunate
connexion before I offer to take her by the hand myself. I'm sure Fred will feel that I ought
to do so.'

But Fred retreated from the room without showing the letter. He retreated from the room and
betook himself to solitude, that he might again endeavour to make up his mind as to what he
would do. He put on his hat and his great-coat and gloves, and went off without his luncheon
that he might consider it all. Clara Amedroz had now no home and, indeed, very little means
of providing one. If he intended that she should be his wife, he must furnish her with a home
at once. It seemed to him that three houses might possibly be open to her of which one, the
only one which under such circumstances would be proper, was Aylmer Park. The other two were
Plaistow Hall and Mrs Askerton's cottage at Belton. As to the latter should she ever take shelter
there, everything must be over between him and her. On that point there could be no doubt.
He could not bring himself to marry a wife out of Mrs Askerton's drawing-room, nor could he
expect his mother to receive a young woman brought into the family under such circumstances.
And Plaistow Hall was almost as bad. It was as bad to him, though it would, perhaps, be less
objectionable in the eyes of Lady Aylmer. Should Clara go to Plaistow Hall there must be an
end to everything. Of that also he taught himself to be quite certain. Then he took out Clara's
letter and read it again. She acknowledged the story about the woman to be true such a story
as it was too and yet refused to quarrel with the woman had absolutely promised the woman not
to quarrel with her! Then he read and re-read the passage in which Clara claimed the right
of forming her own opinion in such matters. Nothing could be more indelicate nothing more unfit
for his wife. He began to think that he had better show the letter to his mother, and acknowledge
that the match must be broken off. That softening of his heart which had followed upon the
receipt of the telegraphic message departed from him as he dwelt upon the stubborn, stiff-necked,
unfeminine obstinacy of the letter. Then he remembered that nothing had as yet been done towards
putting his aunt's fifteen hundred pounds absolutely into Clara's hands; and he remembered
also that she might at the present moment be in great want. William Belton might, not improbably,
assist her in her want, and this idea was wormwood to him in spite of his almost formed resolution
to give up his own claims. He calculated that the income arising from fifteen hundred pounds
would be very small, and he wished that he had counselled his aunt to double the legacy. He
thought very much about the amount of the money and the way in which it might be beat expended,
and was, after his cold fashion, really solicitous as to Clara's welfare. If he could have
fashioned her future life, and his own too, in accordance with his own now existing wishes,
I think he would have arranged that neither of them should marry at all, and that to him should
be assigned the duty and care of being Clara's protector with full permission to tell her his
mind as often as he pleased on the subject of Mrs Askerton. Then he went in and wrote a note
to Mr Green, the lawyer, desiring that the interest of the fifteen hundred pounds for one year
might be at once remitted to Miss Amedroz. He knew that he ought to write to her himself immediately,
without loss of a post; but how was he to write while things were in their present position?
Were he now to condole with her on her father's death, without any reference to the great Askerton
iniquity, he would thereby be condoning all that was past, and acknowledging the truth and
propriety of her arguments. And he would be doing even worse than that. He would be cutting
the ground absolutely from beneath his own feet as regarded that escape from his engagement
which he was contemplating.

What a cold-hearted, ungenerous wretch he must have been! That will be the verdict against
him. But the verdict will be untrue. Cold-hearted and ungenerous he was; but he was no wretch
as men and women are now-a-days called wretches. He was chilly hearted, but yet quite capable
of enough love to make him a good son, a good husband, and a good father too. And though he
was ungenerous from the nature of his temperament, he was not close-fisted or over covetous.
And he was a just man, desirous of obtaining nothing that was not fairly his own. But, in truth,
the artists have been so much in the habit of painting for us our friends' faces without any
of those flaws and blotches with which work and high living are apt to disfigure us, that we
turn in disgust from a portrait in which the roughnesses and pimples are made apparent.

But it was essential that he should now do something, and before he sat down to dinner he did
show Clara's letter to his mother. 'Mother,' he said, as he sat himself down in her little
room upstairs;--and she knew well by the tone of his voice, and by the mode of his address,
that there was to be a solemn occasion, and a serious deliberative council on the present existing
family difficulty,--'mother, of course I have intended to let you know what is the nature of
Clara's answer to my letter.'

'I am glad there is to be no secret between us, Frederic. You know how I dislike secrets in
families.' As she said this she took the letter out of her son's hands with an eagerness that
was almost greedy. As she read it, he stood over her, watching her eyes, as they made their
way down the first page and on to the second, and across to the third, and so, gradually on,
till the whole reading was accomplished. What Clara had written about her Cousin Will, Lady
Aylmer did not quite understand; and on this point now she was so little anxious that she passed
over that portion of the letter readily. But when she came to Mrs Askerton and the allusions
to herself, she took care to comprehend the meaning and weight of every word. 'Divide your
words and mine! Why should we want to divide them? Not agree with me about Mrs Askerton! How
is it possible that any decent young woman should not agree with me! It is a matter in which
there is no room for a doubt. True the story true! Of course it is true. Does she not know
that it would not have reached her from Aylmer Park if it were not true? Provocation! Badly
treated! Went away! Married to Colonel Askerton as soon as Captain Berdmore died! Why, Frederic,
she cannot have been taught to understand the first principle of morals in life! And she that
was so much with my poor sister! Well, well!' The reader should understand that the late Mrs
Winterfield and Lady Aylmer had never been able to agree with each other on religious subjects.
'Remember that they are married. Why should we remember anything of the kind? It does not make
an atom of difference to the woman's character. Repented! How can Clara say whether she has
repented or not? But that has nothing to do with it. Not quarrel with her as she calls it!
Not give her up! Then, Frederic, of course it must be all over, as far as you are concerned.'
When she had finished her reading, she returned the letter, still open, to her son, shaking
her head almost triumphantly. As far as I am a judge of a young woman's character, I can only
give you one counsel,' said Lady Aylmer solemnly.

'I think that she should have another chance,' said Captain Aylmer.

'What other chance can you give her? It seems to me that she is obstinately bent on her own
destruction.'

'You might ask her to come here, as Belinda suggested.'

'Belinda was very foolish to suggest anything of the kind without more consideration.'

'I suppose that my future wife would be made welcome here?'

'Yes, Frederic, certainly. I do not know who could be more welcome. But is she to be your wife?'

'We are engaged.'

'But does not that letter break any engagement? Is there not enough in that to make such a
marriage quite out of the question? What do you think about it yourself, Frederic?'

'I think that she should have another chance.'

What would Clara have thought of all this herself if she could have heard the conversation
between Lady Aylmer and her betrothed husband, and have known that her lover was proposing
to give her 'another chance?' But it is lucky for us that we seldom know what our best friends
say on our behalf, when they discuss us and our faults behind our backs.

'What chance, Frederic, can she have? She knows all about this horrid woman, and yet refuses
to give her up! What chance can she have after that?'

'I think that you might have her here and talk to her.' Lady Aylmer, in answer to this, simply
shook her head. And I think she was right in supposing that such shaking of her head was a
sufficient reply to her son's proposition. What talking could possibly be of service to such
a one as this Miss Amedroz? Why should she throw her pearls before swine? 'We must either ask
her to come here, or else I must go to her,' said Captain Aylmer.

'I don't see that at all, Frederic.'

'I think it must be so. As she is situated at present she has got no home; and I think it would
be very horrid that she should be driven into that woman's house, simply because she has no
other shelter for her head.'

'I suppose she can remain where she is for the present?'

'She is all alone, you know; and it must be very gloomy;--and her cousin can turn her out at
a moment's notice.'

'But that would not entitle her to come here, unless--'

'No;--I quite understand that. But you cannot wonder that I should feel the hardship of her
position.'

'Who is to be blamed if it be hard? You see, Frederic, I take my standing upon that letter
her own letter. How am I to ask a young woman into my house who declares openly that my opinion
on such a matter goes for nothing with her? How am I to do it? That's what I ask you. How am
I to do it? It's all very well for Belinda to suggest this and that. But how am I to do it?
That's what I want to know.'

But at last Lady Aylmer managed to answer the question for herself, and did do it. But this
was not done on that Sunday afternoon, nor on the Monday, nor on the Tuesday. The question
was closely debated, and at last the anxious mother perceived that the giving of the invitation
would be more safe than withholding it. Captain Aylmer at last expressed his determination
to go to Belton unless the invitation were given; and then, should he do that, there might
be danger that he would never be again seen at Aylmer Park till he brought Clara Amedroz with
him as his wife. The position was one of great difficulty, but the interests at stake were
so immense that something must be risked. It might be that Clara would not come when invited,
and in that case her obstinacy would be a great point gained. And if she did come--! Well;
Lady Aylmer admitted to herself that the game would be difficult,--difficult and very troublesome;
but yet it might be played, and perhaps won. Lady Aylmer was a woman who had great confidence
in herself. Not so utterly had victory in such contests deserted her hands, that she need fear
to break a lance with Miss Amedroz beneath her own roof, when the occasion was so pressing.

The invitation was therefore sent in a note written by herself, and was enclosed in a letter
from her son. After much consultation and many doubts on the subject, it was at last agreed
that nothing further should now be urged about Mrs Askerton. 'She shall have her chance,' said
Lady Aylmer over and over again, repeating her son's words. 'She shall have her chance.' Lady
Aylmer, therefore, in her note, confined herself strictly to the giving of the invitation,
and to a suggestion that, as Clara had now no settled home of her own, a temporary sojourn
at Aylmer Park might be expedient. And Captain Aylmer in his letter hardly said much more.
He knew, as he wrote the words, that they were cold and comfortless, and that he ought on such
an occasion to have written words that should have been warm at any rate, even though they
might not have contained comfort. But, to have written with affection, he should have written
at once, and he had postponed his letter from the Sunday till the Wednesday. It had been absolutely
necessary that that important question as to the invitation should be answered before he could
write at all.

When all this was settled he went up to London; and there was an understanding between him
and his mother that he should return to Aylmer Park with Clara, in the event of her acceptance
of the invitation.

'You won't go down to Belton for her?' said the mother.

'No I do not think that will be necessary,' said the son.

'I should think not,' said the mother.

CHAPTER XX

WILLIAM BELTON DOES NOT GO OUT HUNTING

WE will now follow the other message which was sent down into Norfolk, and which did not get
into Belton's hands till the Monday morning. He was sitting with his sister at breakfast, and
was prepared for hunting, when the paper was brought into the room. Telegraphic messages were
not very common at Plaistow Hall, and on the arrival of any that had as yet reached that house,
something of that awe had been felt with which such missives were always accompanied in their
earliest days. 'A telegruff message, mum, for Mr William,' said the maid, looking at her mistress
with eyes opened wide, as she handed the important bit of paper to her master. Will opened
it rapidly, laying down the knife and fork with which he was about to operate upon a ham before
him. He was dressed in boots and breeches, and a scarlet coat in which garb he was, in his
sister's eyes, the most handsome man in Norfolk.

'Oh, Mary!' he exclaimed.

'What is it, Will?'

'Mr Amedroz is dead.'

Miss Belton put out her hand for the paper before she spoke again, as though she could better
appreciate the truth of what she heard when reading it herself on the telegraph slip than she
had done from her brother's words. 'How sudden! how terribly sudden!' she said.

'Sudden indeed. When I left him he was not well, certainly, but I should have said that he
might have lived for twenty years. Poor old man! I can hardly say why it was so, but I had
taken a liking to him.'

'You take a liking to everybody, Will.'

'No I don't. I know people I don't like.' Will Belton as he said this was thinking of Captain
Aylmer, and he pressed the heel of his boot hard against the floor.

'And Mr Amedroz is dead! It seems to be so terribly sudden. What will she do, Will?'

'That's what I'm thinking about.'

'Of course you are, my dear. I can see that. I wish I wish'

'It's no good wishing anything, Mary. I don't think wishing ever did any good yet. If I might
have my wish, I shouldn't know how to have it.'

'I was wishing that you didn't think so much about it.'

'You need not be troubled about me. I shall do very well. But what is to become of her now
at once? Might she not come here? You are now the nearest female relation that she has.'

Mary looked at him with her anxious, painful eyes, and he knew by her look that she did not
approve of his plan. 'I could go away,' he continued. 'She could come to you without being
troubled by seeing me.'

'And where would you go, Will?'

'What does it matter? To the devil, I suppose.'

'Oh, Will, Will!'

'You know what I mean. I'd go anywhere. Where is she to find a home till,--till she is married?'
He had paused at the word; but was determined not to shrink from it, and bolted it out in a
loud, sharp tone so that both he and she recognized all the meaning of the word all that was
conveyed in the idea. He hated himself when he endeavoured to conceal from his own mind any
of the misery that was coming upon him. He loved her. He could not get over it. The passion
was on him like a palsy, for the shaking off of which no sufficient physical energy was left
to him. It clung to him in his goings out and comings in with a painful, wearing tenacity,
against which he would now and again struggle, swearing that it should be so no longer but
against which he always struggled in vain. It was with him when he was hunting. He was ever
thinking of it when the bird rose before his gun. As he watched the furrow, as his men and
horses would drive it straight and deep through the ground, he was thinking of her and not
of the straightness and depth of the furrow, as had been his wont in former years. Then he
would turn away his f toe, and stand alone in his field, blinded by the salt drops in his eyes,
weeping at his own weakness. And when he was quite alone, he would stamp his foot on the ground,
and throw abroad his arms, and curse himself. What Nessus's shirt was this that had fallen
upon him, and unmanned him from the sole of his foot to the top of his head? He went through
the occupations of the week. He hunted, and shot, and gave his orders, and paid his men their
wages but he did it all with a palsy of love upon him as he did it. He wanted her, and he could
not overcome the want. He could not bear to confess to himself that the thing by which he had
set so much store could never belong to him. His sister understood it all, and sometimes he
was almost angry with her because of her understanding it. She sympathized with him in all
his moods, and sometimes he would shake away her sympathy as though it scalded him. 'Where
is she to find a home till till she is married?' he said.

Not a word had as yet been said between them about the property which was now his estate. He
was now Belton of Belton, and it must be supposed that both he and she had remembered that
it was so. But hitherto not a word had been said between them on that point. Now she was compelled
to allude to it. 'Cannot she live at the Castle for the present?

'What all alone?'

'Of course she is remaining there now.'

'Yes,' said he, 'of course she is there now. Now! Why, remember what these telegraphic messages
are. He died only on yesterday morning. Of course she is there, but I do not think it can be
good that she should remain there. There is no one near her where she is but that Mrs Askerton.
It can hardly be good for her to have no other female friend at such a time as this.'

'I do not think that Mrs Askerton will hurt her.'

'Mrs Askerton will not hurt her at all,--and as long as Clara does not know the story, Mrs
Askerton may serve as well as another. But yet--'

'Can I go to her, Will?'

'No, dearest. The journey would kill you in winter. And he would not like it. We are bound
to think of that for her sake cold-hearted, thankless, meagre-minded creature as I know he is.'

'I do not know why he should be so bad.'

'No, nor I. But I know that he is. Never mind. Why should we talk about him? I suppose she'll
have to go there to Aylmer Park. I suppose they will send for her, and keep her there till
it's all finished. I'll tell you what, Mary I shall give her the place.'

'What Belton Castle?'

'Why not? Will it ever be of any good to you or me? Do you want to go and live there?'

'No, indeed not for myself.'

'And do you think that I could live there? Besides why should she be turned out of her father's
house?'

'He would not be mean enough to take it.'

'He would be mean enough for anything. Besides, I should take very good care that it should
be settled upon her.'

'That's nonsense, Will it is indeed. You are now William Belton of Belton, and you must remain so.'

'Mary,--I would sooner be Will Belton with Clara Amedroz by my side to get through the world
with me, and not the interest of an acre either at Belton Castle or at Plaistow Hall! And I
believe I should be the richer man at the end if there were any good in that.' Then he went
out of the room, and she heard him go through the kitchen, and knew that he passed out into
the farm-yard, towards the stable, by the back-door. He intended, it seemed, to go on with
his hunting in spite of this death which had occurred. She was sorry for it, but she could
not venture to stop him. And she was sorry also that nothing had been settled as to the writing
of any letter to Clara. She, however, would take upon herself to write while he was gone.

He went straight out towards the stables, hardly conscious of what he was doing or where he
was going, and found his hack ready saddled for him in the stall. Then he remembered that he
must either go or come to some decision that he would not go. The horse that he intended to
ride had been sent on to the meet, and if he were not to be used, some message must be dispatched
as to the animal's return. But Will was half inclined to go, although he knew that the world
would judge him to be heartless if he were to go hunting immediately on the receipt of the
tidings which had reached him that morning. He thought that he would like to set the world
at defiance in this matter. Let Frederic Aylmer go into mourning for the old man who was dead.
Let Frederic Aylmer be solicitous for the daughter who was left lonely in the old house. No
doubt he, Will Belton, had inherited the dead man's estate, and should, therefore, in accordance
with all the ordinary rules of the world on such matters, submit himself at any rate to the
decency of funereal reserve. An heir should not be seen out hunting on the day on which such
tidings as to his heritage had reached him. But he did not wish, in his present mood, to be
recognized as the heir. He did not want the property. He would have preferred to rid himself
altogether of any of the obligations which the ownership of the estate entailed upon him. It
was not permitted to him to have the custody of the old squire's daughter, and therefore he
was unwilling to meddle with any of the old squire's concerns.

Belton had gone into the stable, and had himself loosed the animal, leading him out into the
yard as though he were about to mount him. Then he had given the reins to a stable boy, and
had walked away among the farm buildings, not thinking of what he was doing. The lad stood
staring at him with open mouth, not at all understanding his master's hesitation. The meet,
as the boy knew, was fourteen miles off, and Belton had not allowed himself above an hour and
a half for the journey. It was his practice to jump into the saddle and bustle out of the place,
as though seconds were important to him. He would look at his watch with accuracy, and measure
his pace from spot to spot, as though minutes were too valuable to be lost. But now he wandered
away like one distraught, and the stable boy knew that something was wrong. 'I thout he was
a thinken of the white cow as choked 'erself with the tunnup that was skipped in the chopping,'
said the boy, as he spoke of his master afterwards to the old groom. At last, however, a thought
seemed to strike Belton. 'Do you get on Brag,' he said to the boy, 'and ride off to Goldingham
Corner, and tell Daniel to bring the horse home again. I shan't hunt today. And I think I shall
go away from home. If so, tell him to be sure the horses are out every morning and tell him
to stop their beans. I mightn't hunt again for the next month.' Then he returned into the house,
and went to the parlour in which his sister was sitting. 'I shan't go out today,' he said.

'I thought you would not, Will,' she answered.

'Not that I see any harm in it.'

'I don't say that there is any harm, but it is as well on such occasions to do as others do.'

'That's humbug, Mary.'

'No, Will; I do not think that. When any practice has become the fixed rule of the society
in which we live, it is always wise to adhere to that rule, unless it call upon us to do something
that is actually wrong. One should not offend the prejudices of the world, even if one is quite
sure that they are prejudices.'

'It hasn't been that that has brought me back, Mary. I'll tell you what. I think I'll go down
to Belton after all.'

His sister did not know what to say in answer to this. Her chief anxiety was, of course, on
behalf of her brother. That he should be made to forget Clara Amedroz, if that were only possible,
was her great desire; and his journey at such a time as this down to Belton was not the way
to accomplish such forgetting. And then she felt that Clara might very possibly not wish to
see him. Had Will simply been her cousin, such a visit might be very well; but he had attempted
to be more than her cousin, and therefore it would probably not be well. Captain Aylmer might
not like it; and Mary felt herself bound to consider even Captain Aylmer's likings in such
a matter. And yet she could not bear to oppose him in anything. 'It would be a very long journey,'
she said.

'What does that signify?'

'And then it might so probably be for nothing.'

'Why should it be for nothing?'

'Because--'

'Because what? Why don't you speak out? You need not be afraid of hurting me. Nothing that
you can say can make it at all worse than it is.'

'Dear Will, I wish I could make it better.'

'But you can't. Nobody can make it either better or worse. I promised her once before that
I would go to her when she might be in trouble, and I will be as good as my word. I said I
would be a brother to her;--and so I will. So help me God, I will!' Then he rushed out of the
room, striding through the door as though he would knock it down, and hurried upstairs to his
own chamber. When there he stripped himself of his hunting things, and dressed himself again
with all the expedition in his power; and then he threw a heap of clothes into a large portmanteau,
and set himself to work packing as though everything in the world were to depend upon his catching
a certain train. And he went to a locked drawer, and taking out a cheque-book, folded it up
and put it into his pocket. Then he rang the bell violently; and as he was locking the portmanteau,
pressing down the lid with all his weight and all his strength, he ordered that a certain mare
should be put into a certain dog-cart and that somebody might be ready to drive over with him
to the Downham Station. Within twenty minutes of the time of his rushing upstairs he appeared
again before his sister with a greatcoat on, and a railway rug hanging over his arm. 'Do you
mean that you are going today?' said she.

'Yes. I'll catch the 11.40 up-train at Downham. What's the good of going unless I go at once?
If I can be of any use it will be at the first. It may be that she will have nobody there to
do anything for her.'

'There is the clergyman, and Colonel Askerton even if Captain Aylmer has not gone down.'

'The clergyman and Colonel Askerton are nothing to her. And if that man is there I can come
back again.'

'You will not quarrel with him?'

'Why should I quarrel with him? What is there to quarrel about? I'm not such a fool as to quarrel
with a man because I hate him. If he is there I shall see her for a minute or two, and then
I shall come back.'

'I know it is no good my trying to dissuade you.'

'None on earth. If you knew it all you would not try to dissuade me. Before I thought of asking
her to be my wife and yet I thought of that very soon but before I ever thought of that, I
told her that when she wanted a brother's help I would give it her. Of course I was thinking
of the property that she shouldn't be turned out of her father's house like a beggar. I hadn't
any settled plan then how could I? But I meant her to understand that when her father died
I would be the same to her that I am to you. If you were alone, in distress, would I not go
to you?'

'But I have no one else, Will,' said she, stretching out her hand to him where he stood.

'That makes no difference,' he replied, almost roughly. A promise is a promise, and I resolved
from the first that my promise should hold good in spite of my disappointment. Dear, dear it
seems but the other day when I made it and now, already, everything is changed.' As he was
speaking the servant entered the room, and told him that the horse and gig were ready for him.
'I shall just do it nicely,' said he, looking at his watch. 'I have over an hour. God bless
you, Mary. I shan't be away long. You may be sure of that.'

'I don't suppose you can tell as yet, Will.'

'What should keep me long? I shall see Green as I go by, and that is half of my errand. I dare
say I shan't stay above a night down in Somersetshire.'

'You'll have to give some orders about the estate.'

'I shall not say a word on the subject to anybody; that is, not to anybody there. I am going
to look after her, and not the estate.' Then he stooped down and kissed his sister, and in
another minute was turning the corner out of the farm-yard on to the road at a quick pace,
not losing a foot of ground in the turn, in that fashion of rapidity which the horses at Plaistow
Hall soon learned from their master. The horse is a closely sympathetic beast, and will make
his turns, and do his trottings, and comport himself generally in strict unison with the pulsation
of his master's heart. When a horse won't jump it is generally the case that the inner man
is declining to jump also, let the outer man seem ever so anxious to accomplish the feat.

Belton, who was generally very communicative with his servants, always talking to any man he
might have beside him in his dog-cart about the fields and cattle and tillage around him, said
not a word to the boy who accompanied him on this occasion. He had a good many things to settle
in his mind before he got to London, and he began upon the work as soon as he had turned the
corner out of the farm-yard. As regarded this Belton estate, which was now altogether his own,
he had always bad doubts and qualms qualms of feeling rather than of conscience; and he had,
also, always entertained a strong family ambition. His people, ever so far back, had been Beltons
of Belton. They told him that his family could be traced back to very early days before the
Plantagenets, as he believed, though on this point of the subject he was very hazy in his information
and he liked the idea of being the man by whom the family should be reconstructed in its glory.
Worldly circumstances had been so kind to him, that he could take up the Belton estate with
more of the prestige of wealth than had belonged to any of the owners of the place for many
years past. Should it come to pass that living there would be desirable, he could rebuild the
old house, and make new gardens, and fit himself out with all the pleasant braveries of a well-to-do
English squire. There need be no pinching and scraping, no question whether a carriage would
be possible, no doubt as to the prudence of preserving game. All this had given much that was
delightful to his prospects. And he had, too, been instigated by a somewhat weak desire to
emerge from that farmer's rank into which he knew that many connected with him had supposed
him to have sunk. It was true that he farmed land that was half his own and that, even at Plaistow,
he was a wealthy man; but Plaistow Hall, with all its comforts, was a farm-house; and the ambition
to be more than a farmer had been strong upon him.

But then there had been the feeling that in taking the Belton estate he would be robbing his
Cousin Clara of all that should have been hers. It must be remembered that he had not been
brought up in the belief that he would ever become the owner of Belton. All his high ambition
in that matter had originated with the wretched death of Clara's brother. Could he bring himself
to take it all with pleasure, seeing that it came to him by so sad a chance by a catastrophe
so deplorable? When he would think of this, his mind would revolt from its own desires, and
he would declare to himself that his inheritance would come to him with a stain of blood upon
it. He, indeed, would have been guiltless; but how could he take his pleasure in the shades
of Belton without thinking of the tragedy which had given him the property? Such had been the
thoughts and desires, mixed in their nature and militating against each other, which had induced
him to offer his first visit to his cousin's house. We know what was the effect of that visit,
and by what pleasant scheme he had endeavoured to overcome all his difficulties, and so to
become master of Belton that Clara Amedroz should also be its mistress. There had been a way
which, after two days' intimacy with Clara, seemed to promise him comfort and happiness on
all sides. But he had come too late, and that way was closed against him! Now the estate was
his, and what was he to do with it? Clara belonged to his rival, and in what way would it become
him to treat her? He was still thinking simply of the cruelty of the circumstances which had
thrown Captain Aylmer between him and his cousin, when he drove himself up to the railway station
at Downham.

'Take her back steady, Jem,' he said to the boy.

'I'll be sure to take her wery steady,' Jem answered, 'and tell Compton to have the samples
of barley ready for me. I may be back any day, and we shall be sowing early this spring.'

Then he left his cart, followed the porter who had taken his luggage eagerly, knowing that
Mr Belton was always good for sixpence, and in five minutes' time he was again in motion.

On his arrival in London he drove at once to the chambers of his friend, Mr Green, and luckily
found the lawyer there. Had he missed doing this, it was his intention to go out to his friend's
house; and in that case he could not have gone down to Taunton till the next morning; but now
he would be able to say what he wished to say, and hear what he wished to hear, and would travel
down by the night-mail train. He was anxious that Clara should feel that he had hurried to
her without a moment's delay. It would do no good. He knew that. Nothing that he could do would
alter her, or be of any service to him. She had accepted this man, and had herself no power
of making a change, even if she should wish it. But still there was to him something of gratification
in the idea that she should be made to feel that he, Belton, was more instant in his affection,
more urgent in his good offices, more anxious to befriend her in her difficulties, than the
man whom she had consented to take for her husband. Aylmer would probably go down to Belton,
but Will was very anxious to be the first on the ground very anxious though his doing so could
be of no use. All this was wrong on his part. He knew that it was wrong, and he abused himself
for his own selfishness. But such self-abuse gave him no aid in escaping from his own wickedness.
He would, if possible, be at Belton before Captain Aylmer; and he would, if possible, make
Clara feel that, though he was not a Member of Parliament, though he was not much given to
books, though he was only a farmer, yet he had at any rate as much heart and spirit as the
fine gentleman whom she preferred to him.

'I thought I should see you,' said the lawyer; 'but I hardly expected you so soon as this.'

'I ought to have been a day sooner, only we don't get our telegraphic messages on a Sunday.'

He still kept his greatcoat on; and it seemed by his manner that he had no intention of staying
where he was above a minute or two.

'You'll come out and dine with me today?' said Mr Green.

'I can't do that, for I shall go down by the mail train.'

'I never saw such a fellow in my life. What good will that do? It is quite right that you should
be there in time for the funeral; but I don't suppose he will be buried before this day week.'

But Belton had never thought about the funeral. When he had spoken to his sister of saying
but a few words to Clara and then returning, he had forgotten that there would be any such
ceremony, or that he would be delayed by any such necessity.

'I was not thinking about the funeral,' said Belton. 'You'll only find yourself uncomfortable
there.'

'Of course I shall be uncomfortable.'

'You can't do anything about the property, you know.'

'What do you mean by doing anything?' said Belton, in an angry tone.

'You can't very well take possession of the place, at any rate, till after the funeral. It
would not be considered the proper thing to do.'

'You think, then, that I'm a bird of prey, smelling the feast from afar off, and hurrying at
the dead man's carcase as soon as the breath is out of his body?'

'I don't think anything of the kind, my dear fellow.'

'Yes, you do, or you wouldn't talk to me about doing the proper thing! I don't care a straw
about the proper thing! If I find that there's anything to be done tomorrow that can be of
any use, I shall do it, though all Somersetshire should think it improper! But I'm not going
to look after my own interests!'

'Take off your coat and sit down, Will, and don't look angry at me. I know that you're not
greedy, well enough. Tell me what you are going to do, and let me see if I can help you.'

Belton did as he was told; he pulled off his coat and sat himself down by the fire. 'I don't
know that you can do anything to help me at least, not as yet. But I must go and see after
her. Perhaps she may be all alone.'

'I suppose she is all alone.'

'He hasn't gone down, then?'

'Who Captain Aylmer? No he hasn't gone down, certainly. He is in Yorkshire.'

'I'm glad of that!'

'He won't hurry himself. He never does, I fancy. I had a letter from him this morning about
Miss Amedroz.'

'And what did he say?'

'He desired me to send her seventy-five pounds the interest of her aunt's money.'

'Seventy-five pounds!' said Will Belton, contemptuously.

'He thought she might want money at once; and I sent her the cheque today. It will go down
by the same train that carries you.'

'Seventy-five pounds! And you are sure that he has not gone himself?'

'It isn't likely that he should have written to me, and passed through London himself, at the
same time but it is possible, no doubt. I don't think he even knew the old squire; and there
is no reason why he should go to the funeral.'

'No reason at all,' said Belton who felt that Captain Aylmer's presence at the Castle would
be an insult to himself. 'I don't know what on earth he should do there except that I think
him just the fellow to intrude where he is not wanted.' And yet Will was in his heart despising
Captain Aylmer because he had not already hurried down to the assistance of the girl whom he
professed to love.

'He is engaged to her, you know,' said the lawyer, in a low voice.

'What difference does that make with such a fellow as he is a cold-blooded fish of a man, who
thinks of nothing in the world but being respectable? Engaged to her! Oh, damn him!'

'I've not the slightest objection. I don't think, however, that you'll find him at Belton before
you. No doubt she will have heard from him; and it strikes me as very possible that she may
go to Aylmer Park.'

'What should she go there for?'

'Would it not be the best place for her?'

'No. My house would be the best place for her. I am her nearest relative. Why should she not
come to us?'

Mr Green turned round his chair and poked the fire, and fidgeted about for some moments before
he answered. 'My dear fellow, you must know that that wouldn't do.' He then said, 'You ought
to feel that it wouldn't do you ought indeed.'

'Why shouldn't my sister receive Miss Amedroz as well as that old woman down in Yorkshire?'

'If I may tell you, I will.'

'Of course you may tell me.'

'Because Miss Amedroz is engaged to be married to that old woman's son, and is not engaged
to be married to your sister's brother. The thing is done, and what is the good of interfering?
As far as she is concerned, a great burden is off your hands.'

'What do you mean by a burden?'

'I mean that her engagement to Captain Aylmer makes it unnecessary for you to suppose that
she is in want of any pecuniary assistance. You told me once before that you would feel yourself
called upon to see that she wanted nothing.'

'So I do now.'

'But Captain Aylmer will look after that.'

'I tell you what it is, Joe; I mean to settle the Belton property in such a way that she shall
have it, and that he shan't be able to touch it. And it shall go to some one who shall have
my name William Belton. That's what I want you to arrange for me.'

'After you are dead, you mean.'

'I mean now, at once. I won't take the estate from her. I hate the place and everything belonging
to it. I don't mean her. There is no reason for hating her.'

'My dear Will, you are talking nonsense.'

'Why is it nonsense? I may give what belongs to me to whom I please.'

'You can do nothing of the kind at any rate, not by my assistance. You talk as though the world
were all over with you as though you were never to be married or have any children of your own.'

'I shall never marry.'

'Nonsense, Will. Don't make such an ass of yourself as to suppose that you'll not get over
such a thing as this. You'll be married and have a dozen children yet to provide for. Let the
eldest have Belton Castle, and everything will go on then in the proper way.'

Belton had now got the poker into his hands, and sat silent for some time, knocking the coals
about. Then he got up, and took his hat, and put on his coat. Of course I can't make you understand
me,' he said; at any rate not all at once. I'm not such a fool as to want to give up my property
just because a girl is going to be married to a man I don't like. I'm not such an ass as to
give him my estate for such a reason as that for it will be giving it to him, let me tie it
up as I may. But I've a feeling about it which makes it impossible for me to take it. How would
you like to get a thing by another fellow having destroyed himself?'

'You can't help that. It's yours by law.'

'Of course it is. I know that. And as it's mine I can do what I like with it. Well good-bye.
When I've got anything to say, I'll write.' Then he went down to his cab and had himself driven
to the Great Western Railway Hotel.

Captain Aylmer had sent to his betrothed seventy-five pounds; the exact interest at five per
cent, for one year of the sum which his aunt had left her. This was the first subject of which
Belton thought when he found himself again in the railway carriage, and he continued thinking
of it half the way down to Taunton. Seventy-five pounds! As though this favoured lover were
prepared to give her exactly her due, and nothing more than her due! Had he been so placed,
he, Will Belton, what would he have done? Seventy-five pounds might have been more money than
she would have wanted, for he would have taken her to his own house to his own bosom as soon
as she would have permitted, and would have so laboured on her behalf, taking from her shoulders
all money troubles, that there would have been no question as to principal or interest between
them. At any rate he would not have confined himself to sending to her the exact sum which
was her due. But then Aylmer was a cold-blooded man more like a fish than a man. Belton told
himself over and over again that he had discovered that at the single glance which he had had
when he saw Captain Aylmer in Green's chambers. Seventy-five pounds indeed! He himself was
prepared to give his whole estate to her, if she would take it even though she would not marry
him, even though she was going to throw herself away upon that fish! Then he felt somewhat
as Hamlet did when he jumped upon Laertes at the grave of Ophelia. Send her seventy-five pounds
indeed, while he was ready to drink up Esil for her, or to make over to her the whole Belton
estate, and thus abandon the idea for ever of being Belton of Belton!

He reached Taunton in the middle of the night during the small hours of the morning in a winter
night; but yet he could not bring himself to go to bed. So he knocked up an ostler at the nearest
inn, and ordered out a gig. He would go down to the village of Redicote, on the Minehead road,
and put up at the public-house there. He could not now have himself driven at once to Belton
Castle, as he would have done had the old squire been alive. He fancied that his presence would
be a nuisance if he did so. So he went to the little inn at Redicote, reaching that place between
four and five o'clock in the morning; and very uncomfortable he was when he got there. But
in his present frame of mind he preferred discomfort. He liked being tired and cold, and felt,
when he was put into a chill room, without fire, and with a sanded floor, that things with
him were as they ought to be.

Yes he could have a fly over to Belton Castle after breakfast. Having learned so much, and
ordered a dish of eggs and bacon for his morning's breakfast, he went upstairs to a miserable
little bedroom, to dress himself after his night's journey.

CHAPTER XXI

MRS ASKERTON'S GENEROSITY

The death of the old man at Belton Castle had been very sudden. At three o'clock in the morning
Clara had been called into his room, and at five o'clock she was alone in the world having
neither father, mother, nor brother; without a home, without a shilling that she could call
her own with no hope as to her future life, if as she had so much reason to suppose Captain
Aylmer should have chosen to accept her last letter as a ground for permanent separation. But
at this moment, on this saddest morning, she did not care much for that chance. It seemed to
be almost indifferent to her, that question of Lady Aylmer and her anger. The more that she
was absolutely in need of external friendship, the more disposed was she to reject it, and
to declare to herself that she was prepared to stand alone in the world.

For the last week she had understood from the doctor that her father was in truth sinking,
and that she might hardly hope ever to see him again convalescent. She had therefore in some
sort prepared herself for her loneliness, and anticipated the misery of her position. As soon
as it was known to the women in the room that life had left the old man, one of them had taken
her by the hand and led her back to her own chamber. 'Now, Miss Clara, you had better lie down
on the bed again you had indeed; you can do nothing sitting up.' She took the old woman's advice,
and allowed them to do with her as they would. It was true that there was no longer any work
by which she could make herself useful in that house in that house, or, as far as she could
see, in any other. Yes; she would go to bed, and lying there would feel how convenient it would
be for many persons if she also could be taken away to her long rest, as her father, and aunt,
and brother had been taken before her.

Her name and family had been unfortunate, and it would be well that there should be no Amedroz
left to trouble those more fortunate persons who were to come after them. In her sorrow and
bitterness she included both her Cousin Will and Captain Aylmer among those more fortunate
ones for whose sake it might be well that she should be made to vanish from off the earth.
She had read Captain Aylmer's letter over and over again since she had answered it, and had
read nearly as often the copy of her own reply and had told herself, as she read them, that
of course he would not forgive her. He might perhaps pardon her, if she would submit to him
in everything; but that she would not submit to his commands respecting Mrs Askerton she was
fully resolved,--and, therefore, there could be no hope. Then, when she remembered how lately
her dear father's spirit had fled, she hated herself for having allowed her mind to dwell on
anything beyond her loss of him.

She was still in her bedroom, having fallen into that half-waking slumber which the numbness
of sorrow so often produces, when word was brought to her that Mrs Askerton was in the house.
It was the first time that Mrs Askerton had ever crossed the door, and the remembrance that
it was so came upon her at once. During her father's lifetime it had seemed to be understood
that their neighbour should have no admittance there but now now that her father was gone the
barrier was to be overthrown. And why not? Why should not Mrs Askerton come to her? Why, if
Mrs Askerton chose to be kind to her, should she not altogether throw herself into her friend's
arms? Of course her doing so would give mortal offence to everybody at Aylmer Park; but why
need she stop to think of that? She had already made up her mind that she would not obey orders
from Aylmer Park on this subject.

She had not seen Mrs Askerton since that interview between them which was described some few
chapters back. Then everything had been told between them, so that there was no longer any
mystery either on the one side or on the other. Then Clara had assured her friend of her loving
friendship in spite of any edicts to the contrary which might come from Aylmer Park; and after
that what could be more natural than that Mrs Askerton should come to her in her sorrow? 'She
says she'll come up to you if you'll let her,' said the servant. But Clara declined this proposition,
and in a few minutes went down to the small parlour in which she had lately lived, and where
she found her visitor.

'My poor dear, this has been very sudden,' said Mrs Askerton.

'Very sudden very sudden. And yet, now that he has gone, I know that I expected it.'

'Of course I came to you as soon as I heard of it, because I knew you were all alone. If there
had been any one else I should not have come.'

'It is very good of you.'

'Colonel Askerton thought that perhaps he had better come. I told him of all that which we
said to each other the other day. He thought at first that it would be better that I should
not see you.'

'It was very good of you to come,' said Clara again, and as she spoke she put out her hand
and took Mrs Askerton's continuing to hold it for awhile; 'very good indeed.'

'I told him that I could not but go down to you that I thought you would not understand it
if I stayed away.'

'At any rate it was good of you to come to me.'

'I don't believe,' said Mrs Askerton, 'that what people call consolation is ever of any use.
It is a terrible thing to lose a father.'

'Very terrible. Ah, dear, I have hardly yet found out how sad it is. As yet I have only been
thinking of myself, and wishing that I could be with him.'

'Nay, Clara.'

'How can I help it? What am I to do? Or where am I to go? Of what use is life to such a one
as me? And for him who would dare to wish him back again? When people have fallen and gone
down in the world, it is bad for them to go on living. Everything is a trouble, and there is
nothing but vexation.'

'Think what I have suffered, dear.'

'But you have had somebody to care for you somebody whom you could trust.'

'And have not you?'

'No; no one.'

'What do you mean, Clara?'

'I mean what I say. I have no one. It is no use asking questions not now, at such a time as
this. And I did not mean to complain. Complaining is weak and foolish. I have often told myself
that I could bear anything, and so I will. When I can bring myself to think of what I have
lost in my father I shall be better, even though I shall be more sorrowful. As it is, I hate
myself for being so selfish.'

'You will let me come and stay with you today, will you not?'

'No, dear; not today.'

'Why not today, Clara?'

'I shall be better alone. I have so many things to think of.'

'I know well that it would be better that you should not be alone much better. But I will not
press it. I cannot insist with you as another woman would.'

'You are wrong there; quite wrong. I would be led by you sooner than by any woman living. What
other woman is there to whom I would listen for a moment?' As she said this, even in the depth
of her sorrow she thought of Lady Aylmer, and strengthened herself in her resolution to rebel
against her lover's mother. Then she continued, 'I wish I knew my Cousin Mary Mary Bolton;
but I have never seen her.'

'Is she nice?'

'So Will tells me; and I know that what he says must be true even about his sister.'

'Will, Will! You are always thinking of your Cousin Will. If he be really so good he will show
it now.'

'How can he show it? What can he do?'

'Does he not inherit all the property?'

'Of course he does. And what of that? When I say that I have no friend I am not thinking of
my poverty.'

'If he has that regard for you which he pretends, he can do much to assist you. Why should
he not come here at once?'

'God forbid.'

'Why? Why do you say so? He is your nearest relative.'

'If you do not understand I cannot explain.'

'Has he been told what has happened?' Mrs Askerton asked.

'Colonel Askerton sent a message to him, I believe.'

'And to Captain Aylmer also?'

'Yes; and to Captain Aylmer. It was Colonel Askerton who sent it.'

'Then he will come, of course.'

'I think not. Why should he come? He did not even know poor papa.'

'But, my dear Clara, has he not known you?'

'You will see that he will not come. And I tell you beforehand that he will be right to stay
away. Indeed, I do not know how he could come and I do not want him here.'

'I cannot understand you, Clara.'

'I suppose not. I cannot very well understand myself.'

'I should not be at all surprised if Lady Aylmer were to come herself.'

'Oh, heavens! How little you can know of Lady Aylmer's position and character!'

'But if she is to be your mother-in-law?'

'And even if she were! The idea of Lady Aylmer coming away from Aylmer Park all the way from
Yorkshire, to such a house as this! If they told me that the Queen was coming it would hardly
disconcert me more. But, dear, there is no danger of that at least.'

'I do not know what may have passed between you and him; but unless there has been some quarrel
he will come. That is, he will do so if he is at all like any men whom I have known.'

'He will not come.'

Then Mrs Askerton made some half-whispered offers of services to be rendered by Colonel Askerton,
and soon afterwards took her leave, having first asked permission to come again in the afternoon,
and when that was declined, having promised to return on the following morning. As she walked
back to the cottage she could not but think more of Clara's engagement to Captain Aylmer than
she did of the squire's death. As regarded herself, of course she could not grieve for Mr Amedroz;
and as regarded Clara, Clara's father had for some time past been apparently so insignificant,
even in his own house, that it was difficult to acknowledge the fact that the death of such
a one as he might leave a great blank in the world. But what had Clara meant by declaring so
emphatically that Captain Aylmer would not visit Belton, and by speaking of herself as one
who had neither position nor friends in the world? If there had been a quarrel, indeed, then
it was sufficiently intelligible and if there was any such quarrel, from what source must it
have arisen? Mrs Askerton felt the blood rise to her cheeks as she thought of this, and told
herself that there could be but one such source. Mrs Askerton knew that Clara had received
orders from Aylmer Castle to discontinue all acquaintance with herself, and, therefore, there
could be no doubt as to the cause of the quarrel. It had come to this then, that Clara was
to lose her husband because she was true to her friend; or rather because she would not consent
to cast an additional stone at one who for some years past had become a mark for many stones.

I am not prepared to say that Mrs Askerton was a high-minded woman. Misfortunes had come upon
her in life of a sort which are too apt to quench high nobility of mind in woman. There are
calamities which, by their natural tendencies, elevate the character of women and add strength
to the growth of feminine virtues but then, again, there are other calamities which few women
can bear without some degradation, without some injury to that delicacy and tenderness which
is essentially necessary to make a woman charming as a woman. In this, I think, the world is
harder to women than to men; that a woman often loses much by the chance of adverse circumstances
which a man only loses by his own misconduct. That there are women whom no calamity can degrade
is true enough and so it is true that there are some men who are heroes; but such are exceptions
both among men and women. Not such a one had Mrs Askerton been. Calamity had come upon her
partly, indeed, by her own fault, though that might have been pardoned but the weight of her
misfortunes had been too great for her strength, and she had become in some degree hardened
by what she had endured; if not unfeminine, still she was feminine in an inferior degree, with
womanly feelings of a lower order. And she had learned to intrigue, not being desirous of gaining
aught by dishonest intriguing, but believing that she could only hold her own by carrying on
her battle after that fashion. In all this I am speaking of the general character of the woman,
and am not alluding to the one sin which she had committed. Thus, when she had first become
acquainted with Miss Amedroz, her conscience had not rebuked her in that she was deceiving
her new friend. When asked casually in conversation as to her maiden name, she had not blushed
as she answered the question with a falsehood. When, unfortunately, the name of her first husband
had in some way made itself known to Clara, she had been ready again with some prepared fib.
And when she had recognized William Belton, she had thought that the danger to herself of having
any one near her who might know her quite justified her in endeavouring to create ill-will
between Clara and her cousin. 'Self-preservation is the first law of nature,' she would have
said; and would have failed to remember, as she did always fail to remember that nature does
not require by any of its laws that self-preservation should be aided by falsehood.

But though she was not high-minded, so also was she not ungenerous; and now, as she began to
understand that Clara was sacrificing herself because of that promise which had been given
when they two had stood together at the window in the cottage drawing-room, she was capable
of feeling more for her friend than for herself. She was capable even of telling herself that
it was cruel on her part even to wish for any continuance of Clara's acquaintance. 'I have
made my bed, and I must lie upon it,' she said to herself; and then she resolved that, instead
of going up to the house on the following day, she would write to Clara, and put an end to
the intimacy which existed between them. 'The world is hard, and harsh, and unjust,' she said,
still speaking to herself. 'But that is not her fault; I will not injure her because I have
been injured myself.'

Colonel Askerton was up at the house on the same day, but he did not ask for Miss Amedroz,
nor did she see him. Nobody else came to the house then, or on the following morning, or on
that afternoon, though Clara did not fail to tell herself that Captain Aylmer might have been
there if he had chosen to take the journey and to leave home as soon as he had received the
message; and she made the same calculation as to her Cousin Will though in that calculation,
as we know, she was wrong. These two days had been very desolate with her, and she had begun
to look forward to Mrs Askerton's coming when instead of that there came a messenger with a
letter from the cottage.

'You can do as you like, my dear,' Colonel Askerton had said on the previous evening to his
wife. He had listened to all she had been saying without taking his eyes from off his newspaper,
though she had spoken with much eagerness.

'But that is not enough. You should say more to me than that.'

'Now I think you are unreasonable. For myself, I do not care how this matter goes; nor do I
care one straw what any tongues may say. They cannot reach me, excepting so far as they may
reach me through you.'

'But you should advise me.'

'I always do copiously, when I think that I know better than you; but in this matter I feel
so sure that you know better than I, that I don't wish to suggest anything.' Then he went on
with his newspaper, and she sat for a while looking at him, as though she expected that something
more would be said. But nothing more was said, and she was left entirely to her own guidance.

Since the days in which her troubles had come upon Mrs Askerton, Clara Amedroz was the first
female friend who had come near her to comfort her, and she was very loth to abandon such comfort.
There had, too, been something more than comfort, something almost approaching to triumph,
when she found that Clara had clung to her with affection after hearing the whole story of
her life. Though her conscience had not pricked her while she was exercising all her little
planned deceits, she had not taken much pleasure in them. How should any one take pleasure
in such work? Many of us daily deceive our friends, and are so far gone in deceit that the
deceit alone is hardly painful to us. But the need of deceiving a friend is always painful.
The treachery is easy; but to be treacherous to those we love is never easy never easy, even
though it be so common. There had been a double delight to this poor woman in the near neighbourhood
of Clara Amedroz since there had ceased to be a necessity for falsehood on her part. But now,
almost before her joy had commenced, almost before she had realized the sweetness of her triumph,
had come upon her this task of doing that herself which Clara in her generosity had refused
to do. 'I have made my bed and I must lie upon it,' she said. And then, instead of going down
to the house as she had promised, she wrote the following letter to Miss Amedroz:--

'The Cottage, Monday.

'Dearest Clara,--I need not tell you that I write as I do now with a bleeding heart. A few
days since I should have laughed at any woman who used such a phrase of herself, and declared
her to be an affected fool; but now I know how true such a word may be. My heart is bleeding,
and I feel myself to be overcome by my disgrace. You told me that I did not understand you
yesterday. Of course I understood you. Of course I know how it all is, and why you spoke as
you did of Captain Aylmer. He has chosen to think that you could not know me without pollution,
and has determined that you must give up either me or him. Though he has judged me, I am not
going to judge him. The world is on his side; and, perhaps, he is right. He knows nothing of
my trials and difficulties and why should he? I do not blame him for demanding that his future
wife shall not be intimate with a woman who is supposed to have lost her fitness for the society
of women.

'At any rate, dearest, you must obey him and we will see each other no more. I am quite sure
that I should be very wicked were I to allow you to injure your position in life on my account.
You at any rate love him, and would be happy with him, and as you are engaged to him, you have
no just ground for resenting his interference.

'You will understand me now as well as though I were to fill sheets and sheets of paper with
what I could say on the subject. The simple fact is, that you and I must forget each other,
or simply remember one another as past friends. You will know in a day or two what your plans
are. If you remain here, we will go away. If you go away, we will remain here that is, if your
cousin will keep us as tenants. I do not, of course, know what you may have written to Captain
Aylmer since our interview up here, but I beg that you will write to him now, and make him
understand that he need have no fears in respect of me. You may send him this letter if you
will. Oh, dear! If you could know what I suffer as I write this.

'I feel that I owe you an apology for harassing you on such a subject at such a time; but I
know that I ought not to lose a day in tolling you that you are to see nothing more of the
friend who has loved you.

'MARY ASKERTON.'

Clara's first impulse on receiving this letter was to go off at once to the cottage, and insist
on her privilege of choosing her own friends. If she preferred Mrs Askerton to Captain Aylmer,
that was no one's business but her own. And she would have done so had she not been afraid
of meeting with Colonel Askerton. To him she would not have known how to speak on such a subject
nor would she have known how to conduct herself at the cottage without speaking of it. And
then, after a while, she felt that were she to do so should she now deliberately determine
to throw herself into Mrs Askerton's arms she must at the same time give up all ideas of becoming
Captain Aylmer's wife. As she thought of this she asked herself various questions concerning
him, which she did not find it easy to answer. Did she wish to be his wife? Could she assure
herself that if they were married they would make each other happy? Did she love him? She was
still able to declare to herself that the answer to the last question should be an affirmative;
but, nevertheless, she thought that she could give him up without great unhappiness. And when
she began to think of Lady Aylmer, and to remember that Frederic Aylmer's imperative demands
upon her obedience had, in all probability, been dictated by his mother, she was again anxious
to go at once to the cottage, and declare that she would not submit to any interference with
her own judgment.

On the next morning the postman brought to her a letter which was of much moment to her but
he brought to her also tidings which moved her more even than the letter. The letter was from
the lawyer, and enclosed a cheque for seventy-five pounds, which he had been instructed to
pay to her, as the interest of the money left to her by her aunt. What should be her answer
to that letter she knew very well, and she instantly wrote it, sending back the cheque to Mr
Green. The postman's news, more important than the letter, told her that William Belton was
at the inn at Redicote.

CHAPTER XXII

PASSIONATE PLEADING

Clara wrote her letter to the lawyer, returning the cheque, before she would allow herself
a moment to dwell upon the news of her cousin's arrival. She felt that it was necessary to
do that before she should even see her cousin thus providing against any difficulty which might
arise from adverse advice on his part; and as soon as the letter was written she sent it to
the post-office in the village. She would do almost anything that Will might tell her to do,
but Captain Aylmer's money she would not take, even though Will might so direct her. They would
tell her, no doubt, among them, that the money was her own,--that she might take it without
owing any thanks for it to Captain Aylmer. But she knew better than that,--as she told herself
over and over again. Her aunt had left her nothing, and nothing would she have from Captain
Aylmer,--unless she had all that Captain Aylmer had to give, after the fashion in which women
best love to take such gifts.

Then, when she had done that, she was able to think of her cousin's visit. 'I knew he would
come,' she said to herself, as she sat herself in one of the old chairs in the hall, with a
large shawl wrapped round her shoulders. She had just been to the front door, with the nominal
purpose of dispatching her messenger thence to the post-office; but she had stood for a minute
or two under the portico, looking in the direction by which Belton would come from Redicote,
expecting, or rather hoping, that she might see his figure or hear the sound of his gig. But
she saw nothing and heard nothing, and so returned into the hall, slowly shutting the door.
'I knew that he would come,' she said, repeating to herself the same words over and over again.
Yet when Mrs Askerton had told her that he would do this thing which he had now done, she had
expressed herself as almost frightened by the idea. 'God forbid,' she had said. Nevertheless
now that he was there at Redicote, she assured herself that his coming was a thing of which
she had been certain; and she took a joy in the knowledge of his nearness to her which she
did not attempt to define to herself. Had he not said that he would be a brother to her, and
was it not a brother's part to go to a sister in affliction? 'I knew that he would come. I
was sure of it. He is so true.' As to Captain Aylmer's not coming she said nothing, even to
herself; but she felt that she had been equally sure on that subject. Of course, Captain Aylmer
would not come! He had sent her seventy-five pounds in lieu of coming, and in doing so was
true to his character. Both men were doing exactly that which was to have been expected of
them. So at least Clara Amedroz now assured herself. She did not ask herself how it was that
she had come to love the thinner and the meaner of the two men, but she knew well that such
had been her fate.

On a sudden she rose from her chair, as though remembering a duty to be performed, and went
to the kitchen and directed that breakfast might be got ready for Mr Belton. He would have
travelled all night and would be in want of food. Since the old squire's death there had been
no regular meal served in the house, and Clara had taken such scraps of food and cups of tea
as the old servant of the house had brought to her. But now the cloth must be spread again,
and as she did this with her own hands she remembered the dinners which had been prepared for
Captain Aylmer at Perivale after his aunt's death. It seemed to her that she was used to be
in the house with death, and that the sadness and solemn ceremonies of woe were becoming things
familiar to her. There grew upon her a feeling that it must be so with her always. The circumstances
of her life would ever be sad. What right had she to expect any other fate after such a catastrophe
as that which her brother had brought upon the family? It was clear to her that she had done
wrong in supposing that she could marry and live with a prosperous man of the world like Captain
Aylmer. Their natures were different, and no such union could lead to any good. So she told
herself, with much misery of spirit, as she was preparing the breakfast-table for William Belton.

But William Belton did not come to eat the breakfast. He got what he wanted in that way at
the inn at Redicote, and even then hesitated, loitering at the bar, before he would go over.
What was he to say, and how would he be received? After all, had he not done amiss in coming
to a house at which he probably might not be wanted? Would it not be thought that his journey
had been made solely with a view to his own property? He would be regarded as the heir pouncing
upon the inheritance before as yet the old owner was under the ground. At any rate it would
be too early for him to make his visit yet awhile; and, to kill time, he went over to a carpenter
who had been employed by him about the place at Belton. The carpenter spoke to him as though
everything were his own, and was very intent upon future improvements. This made Will more
disgusted with himself than ever, and before he could get out of the carpenter's yard he thoroughly
wished himself back at Plaistow. But having come so far, he could hardly return without seeing
his cousin, and at last he had himself driven over, reaching the house between eleven and twelve
o'clock in the day.

Clara met him in the hall, and at once led him into the room which she had prepared for him.
He had given her his hand in the hall, but did not speak to her till she had spoken to him
after the closing of the room door behind them. 'I thought that you would come' she said, still
holding him by the hand.

'I did not know what to do,' he answered. 'I couldn't say which was best. Now I am here I shall
only be in your way.' He did not dare to press her hand, nor could he bring himself to take
his away from her.

'In my way yes; as an angel, to tell me what to do in my trouble. I knew you would come, because
you are so good. But you will have breakfast see, I have got it ready for you.'

'Oh no; I breakfasted at Redicote. I would not trouble you.'

'Trouble me, Will! Oh, Will, if you knew!' Then there came tears in her eyes, and at the sight
of them both his own were filled. How was he to stand it? To take her to his bosom and hold
her there for always; to wipe away her tears so that she should weep no more; to devote himself
and all his energy and all that was his comfort to her this he could have done; but he knew
not how to do anything short of this. Every word that she spoke to him was an encouragement
to this, and yet he knew that it could not be so. To say a word of his love, or even to look
it, would now be an unmanly insult. And yet, how was he not to look it not to speak of it?
'It is such a comfort that you should be here with me,' she said.

'Then I am glad I am here, though I do not know what I can do. Did he suffer much, Clara?'

'No, I think not; very little. He sank at last quicker than I expected, but just as I thought
he would go. He used to speak of you so often, and always with regard and esteem!'

'Dear old man!'

'Yes, Will; he was, in spite of his little faults. No father ever loved his daughter better
than he loved me.'

After a while the servant brought in the tea, explaining to Belton that Miss Clara had neither
eaten nor drank that morning. 'She wouldn't take anything till you came, sir.' Then Will added
his entreaties, and Clara was persuaded, and by degrees there grew between them more ease of
manner and capability for talking than had been within their reach when they first met. And
during the morning many things were explained, as to which Clara would a few hours previously
have thought it to be almost impossible that she should speak to her cousin. She had told him
of her aunt's money, and the way in which she had on that very morning sent back the cheque
to the lawyer; and she had said something also as to Lady Aylmer's views, and her own views
as to Lady Aylmer. With Will this subject was one most difficult of discussion; and he blushed
and fidgeted in his chair, and walked about the room, and found himself unable to look Clara
in the face as she spoke to him. But she went on, goading him with the name, which of all names
was the most distasteful to him; and mentioning that name almost in terms of reproach of reproach
which he felt it would be ungenerous to reciprocate, but which he would have exaggerated to
unmeasured abuse if he had given his tongue licence to speak his mind.

'I was right to send back the money wasn't I, Will? Say that I was right. Pray tell me that
you think so!'

'I don't understand it at present, you see; I am no lawyer.'

'But it doesn't want a lawyer to know that I couldn't take the money from him. I am sure you
feel that.'

'If a man owes money of course he ought to pay it.'

'But he doesn't owe it, Will. It is intended for generosity.'

'You don't want anybody's generosity, certainly.' Then he reflected that Clara must, after
all, depend entirely on the generosity of some one till she was married; and he wanted to explain
to her that everything he had in the world was at her service was indeed her own. Or he would
have explained, if he knew how, that he did not intend to take advantage of the entail that
the Belton estate should belong to her as the natural heir of her father. But he conceived
that the moment for explaining this had hardly as yet arrived, and that he had better confine
himself to some attempt at teaching her that no extraneous assistance would be necessary to
her, 'In money matters,' said he, 'of course you are to look to me. That is a matter of course.
I'll see Green about the other affairs. Green and I are friends. We'll settle it.'

'That's not what I meant, Will.'

'But it's what I mean. This is one of those things in which a man has to act on his own judgment.
Your father and I understood each other.'

'He did not understand that I was to accept your bounty.'

'Bounty is a nasty word, and I hate it. You accepted me as your brother, and as such I mean
to act.' The word almost stuck in his throat, but he brought it out at last in a fierce tone,
of which she understood accurately the cause and meaning. 'All money matters about the place
must be settled by me. Indeed, that's why I came down.'

'Not only for that, Will?'

'Just to be useful in that way, I mean.'

'You came to see me because you knew I should want you.' Surely this was malice prepense! Knowing
what was his want, how could she exasperate it by talking thus of her own? 'As for money, I
have no claim on any one. No creature was ever more forlorn. But I will not talk of that.'

'Did you not say that you would treat me as a brother?'

'I did not mean that I was to be a burden on you.'

'I know what I meant, and that is sufficient.' Belton had been at the house some hours before
he made any signs of leaving her, and when he did so he had to explain something of his plans.
He would remain, he said, for about a week in the neighbourhood.

She of course was obliged to ask him to stay at the house at the house which was in fact his
own; but he declined to do this, blurting out his reason at last very plainly. 'Captain Aylmer
would not like it, and I suppose you are bound to think of what he likes and dislikes.' 'I
don't know what right Captain Aylmer would have to dislike any such thing,' said Clara. But,
nevertheless, she allowed the reason to pass as current, and did not press her invitation.
Will declared that he would stay at the inn at Redicote, striving to explain in some very unintelligible
manner that such an arrangement would be very convenient. He would remain at Redicote, and
would come over to Belton every day during his sojourn in the country. Then he asked one question
in a low whisper as to the last sad ceremony, and, having received an answer, started off with
the declared intention of calling on Colonel Askerton.

The next two or three days passed uncomfortably enough with Will Belton. He made his head-quarters
at the little inn of Redicote, and drove himself backwards and forwards between that place
and the estate which was now his own. On each of these days he saw Colonel Askerton, whom he
found to be a civil pleasant man, willing enough to rid himself of the unpleasant task he had
undertaken, but at the same time, willing also to continue his services if any further services
were required of him. But of Mrs Askerton on these occasions Will saw nothing, nor had he ever
spoken to her since the time of his first visit to the Castle. Then came the day of the funeral,
and after that rite was over he returned with his cousin to the house. There was no will to
be read. The old squire had left no will, nor was there anything belonging to him at the time
of his death that he could bequeath. The furniture in the house, the worn-out carpets and old-fashioned
chairs, belonged to Clara; but, beyond that, property had she none, nor had it been in her
father's power to endow her with anything. She was alone in the world, penniless, with a conviction
on her own mind that her engagement with Frederic Aylmer must of necessity come to an end,
and with a feeling about her cousin which she could hardly analyse, but which told her that
she could not go to his house in Norfolk, nor live with him at Belton Castle, nor trust herself
in his hands as she would into those of a real brother.

On the afternoon of the day on which her father had been buried, she brought to him a letter,
asking him to read it, and tell her what she should do. The letter was from Lady Aylmer, and
contained an invitation to Aylmer Castle. It had been accompanied, as the reader may possibly
remember, by a letter from Captain Aylmer himself. Of this she of course informed her cousin;
but she did not find it to be necessary to show the letter of one rival to the other. Lady
Aylmer's letter was cold in its expression of welcome, but very dictatorial in pointing out
the absolute necessity that Clara should accept the invitation so given. 'I think you will
not fail to agree with me, dear Miss Amedroz,' the letter said, 'that under these strange and
perplexing circumstances, this is the only roof which can, with any propriety, afford you a
shelter.' 'And why not the poor-house?' she said, aloud to her cousin, when she perceived that
his eye had descended so far on the page. He shook his head angrily, but said nothing; and
when he had finished the letter he folded it and gave it back still in silence. 'And what am
I to do?' she said. 'You tell me that I am to come to you for advice in everything.'

'You must decide for yourself here.'

'And you won't advise me.. You won't tell me whether she is right?'

'I suppose she is right.'

'Then I had better go?'

'If you mean to marry Captain Aylmer, you had better go.'

'I am engaged to him.'

'Then you had better go.'

'But I will not submit myself to her tyranny.'

'Let the marriage take place at once, and you will have to submit only to his. I suppose you
are prepared for that?'

'I do not know. I do not like tyranny.'

Again he stood silent for awhile, looking at her, and then he answered: 'I should not tyrannize
over you, Clara.'

'Oh, Will, Will, do not speak like that. Do not destroy everything.'

'What am I to say?'

'What would you say if your sister, your real sister, asked advice in such a strait? If you
had a sister, who came to you, and told you all her difficulty, you would advise her. You would
not say words to make things worse for her.'

'It would be very different.'

'But you said you would be my brother.'

'How am I to know what you feel for this man? It seems to me that you half hate him, half fear
him, and sometimes despise him.'

'Hate him! No I never hate him.'

'Go to him, then, and ask him what you had better do. Don't ask me.' Then he hurried out of
the room, slamming the door behind him. But before he had half gone down the stairs he remembered
the ceremony at which he had just been present, and how desolate she was in the world, and
he returned to her. 'I beg your pardon, Clara,' he said, 'I am passionate; but I must be a
beast to show my passion to you on such a day as this. If I were you I should accept Lady Aylmer's
invitation merely thanking her for it in the ordinary way. I should then go and see how the
land lay. That is the advice I should give my sister.'

'And I will if it is only because you tell me.'

'But as for a home tell her you have one of your own at Belton Castle, from which no one can
turn you out, and where no one can intrude on you. This house belongs to you.' Then, before
she could answer him, he had left the room and she listened to his heavy quick footsteps as
he went across the hall and out of the front door.

He walked across the park and entered the little gate of Colonel Askerton's garden, as though
it were his habit to go to the cottage when he was at Belton. There had been various matters
on which the two men had been brought into contact concerning the old squire's death and the
tenancy of the cottage, so that they had become almost intimate. Belton had nothing new that
he specially desired to say to Colonel Askerton, whom, indeed, he had seen only a short time
before at the funeral; but he wanted the relief of speaking to some one before he returned
to the solitude of the inn at Redicote. On this occasion, however, the colonel was out, and
the maid asked him if he would see Mrs Askerton. When he said something about not troubling
her, the girl told him that her mistress wished to speak to him, and then he had no alternative
but to allow himself to be shown into the drawing-room.

'I want to see you a minute,' said Mrs Askerton, bowing to him without putting out her hand,
'that I might ask you how you find your cousin.'

'She is pretty well, I think.'

'Colonel Askerton has seen more of her than I have since her father's death, and he says that
she does not bear it well. He thinks that she is ill.'

'I do not think her ill. Of course she is not in good spirits.'

'No; exactly. How should she be? But he thinks she seems so worn. I hope you will excuse me,
Mr Belton, but I love her so well that I cannot bear to be quite in the dark as to her future.
Is anything settled yet?'

'She is going to Aylmer Castle.'

'To Aylmer Castle! Is she indeed? At once?'

'Very soon. Lady Aylmer has asked her.'

'Lady Aylmer! Then I suppose--'

'You suppose what?' Will Belton asked.

'I did not think she would have gone to Aylmer Castle though I dare say it is the best thing
she could do She seemed to me to dislike the Aylmers that is, Lady Aylmer so much! But I suppose
she is right?'

'She is right to go if she likes it.'

'She is circumstanced so cruelly! Is she not? Where else could she go? I do so feel for her.
I believe I need hardly tell you, Mr Belton, that, she would be as welcome here as flowers
in May but that I do not dare to ask her to come to us.' She said this in a low voice, turning
her eyes away from him, looking first upon the ground, and then again up at the window but
still not daring to meet his eye.

'I don't exactly know about that,' said Belton awkwardly.

'You know, I hope, that I love her dearly.'

'Everybody does that,' said Will.

'You do, Mr Belton.'

'Yes I do; just as though she were my sister.'

'And as your sister would you let her come here to us?' He sat silent for awhile, thinking,
and she waited patiently for his answer. Bat she spoke again before he answered her. 'I am
well aware that you know all my history, Mr Belton.'

'I shouldn't tell it her, if you mean that, though she were my sister. If she were my wife
I should tell her.'

'And why your wife?'

'Because then I should be sure it would do no harm.'

'Then I find that you can be generous, Mr Belton. But she knows it all as well as you do.'

'I did not tell her.'

'Nor did I but I should have done so had not Captain Aylmer been before me. And now tell me
whether I could ask her to come here.'

'It would be useless, as she is going to Aylmer Castle'.

'But she is going there simply to find a home having no other.'

'That is not so, Mrs Askerton. She has a home as perfectly her own as any woman in the land.
Belton Castle is hers, to do what she may please with it. She can live here if she likes it,
and nobody can say a word to her. She need not go to Aylmer Castle to look for a home.'

'You mean you would lend her the house?'

'It is hers.'

'I do not understand you, Mr Belton.'

'It does not signify we will say no more about it.'

'And you think she likes going to Lady Aylmer's?'

'How should I say what she likes?'

Then there was another pause before Mrs Askerton spoke again. 'I can tell you one thing,' she
said: 'she does not like him.'

'That is her affair.'

'But she should be taught to know her own mind before she throws herself away altogether. You
would not wish your cousin to marry a man whom she does not love because at one time she had
come to think that she loved him. That is the truth of it, Mr Belton. If she goes to Aylmer
Castle she will marry him and she will be an unhappy woman always afterwards. If you would
sanction her coming here for a few days, I think all that would be cured. She would come in
a moment, if you advised her.'

Then he went away, allowing himself to make no further answer at the moment, and discussed
the matter with himself as he walked back to Redicote, meditating on it with all his mind,
and all his heart, and all his strength. And, as he meditated, it came on to rain bitterly
a cold piercing February rain and the darkness of night came upon him, and he floundered on
through the thick mud of the Somersetshire lanes, unconscious of the weather and of the darkness.
There was a way open to him by which he might even yet get what he wanted. He thought he saw
that there was a way open to him through the policy of this woman, whom he perceived to have
become friendly to him. He saw, or thought that he saw, it all. No day had absolutely been
fixed for this journey to Yorkshire; and if Clara were induced to go first to the cottage,
and stay there with Mrs Askerton, no such journey might ever be taken. He could well understand
that such a visit on her part would give a mortal offence to all the Aylmers. That tyranny
of which Clara spoke with so much dread would be exhibited then without reserve, and so there
would be an end altogether of the Aylmer alliance. But were she once to start for Aylmer Park,
then there would be no hope for him. Then her fate would be decided,--and his. As far as he
could see, too,--as far as he could see then, there would be no dishonesty in this plan. Why
should Clara not go to Mrs Askerton's house? What could be more natural than such a visit at
such a time? If she were in truth his sister he would not interfere to prevent it if she wished
it. He had told himself that the woman should be forgiven her offence, and had thought that
that forgiveness should be complete. If the Aylmers were so unreasonable as to quarrel with
her on this ground, let them quarrel with her. Mrs Askerton had told him that Clara did not
really like Captain Aylmer. Perhaps it was so; and if so, what greater kindness could he do
her than give her an opportunity for escaping such a union?

The whole of the next day he remained at Redicote, thinking, doubting, striving to reconcile
his wishes and his honesty. It rained all day, and as he sat alone, smoking in the comfortless
inn, he told himself that the rain was keeping him but in truth it was not the rain. Had he
resolved to do his best to prevent this visit to Yorkshire, or had he resolved to further it,
I think he would have gone to Belton without much fear of the rain. On the second day after
the funeral he did go, and he had then made up his mind. Clara, if she would listen to him,
should show her independence of Lady Aylmer by staying a few days with the Askertons before
she went to Yorkshire, and by telling Lady Aylmer that such was her intention. 'If she really
loves the man,' he said to himself, 'she will go at once, in spite of anything that I can say.
If she does not, I shall be saving her.'

'How cruel of you not to come yesterday!' Clara said, as soon as she saw him.

'It rained hard,' he answered.

'But men like you care so little for rain; but that is when you have business to take you out
or pleasure.'

'You need not be so severe. The truth is I had things to trouble me.'

'What troubled you, Will. I thought all the trouble was mine.'

'I suppose everybody thinks that his own shoe pinches the hardest.'

'Your shoe can't pinch you very bad, I should think. Sometimes when I think of you it seems
that you are an embodiment of prosperity and happiness.'

'I don't see it myself that's all. Did you write to Lady Aylmer, Clara?'

'I wrote; but I didn't send it. I would not send any letter till I had shown it to you, as
you are my confessor and adviser. There; read it. Nothing, I think, could be more courteous
or less humble.' He took the letter and read it. Clara had simply expressed herself willing
to accept Lady Aylmer's invitation, and asked her ladyship to fix a day. There was no mention
of Captain Aylmer's name in the note.

'And you think this is best?' he said. His voice was hardly like his own as he spoke. There
was wanting to it that tone of self-assurance which his voice almost always possessed, even
when self-assurance was lacking to his words.

'I thought it was your own advice,' she said.

'Well yes; that is, I don't quite know. You couldn't go for a week or so yet, I suppose.'

'Perhaps in about a week.'

'And what will you do till then?'

'What will I do!'

'Yes where do you mean to stay?'

'I thought, Will, that perhaps you would let me remain here.'

'Let you! Oh, heavens! Look here, Clara.'

'Before heaven I want what may be the best for you without thinking of you, if I could only
help it.'

'I have never doubted you. I never will doubt you. I believe in you next to my God. I do, Will;
I do.' He walked up and down the room half-a-dozen times before he spoke again, while she stood
by the table watching him. 'I wish,' she said, 'I knew what it is that troubles you.' To this
he made no answer, but went on walking till she came up to him, and putting both her hands
upon his arm said, 'It will be better, Will, that I should go will it not? Speak to me, and
say so. I feel that it will be better.' Then he stopped in his walk and looked down upon her,
as her hands still rested upon his shoulder. He gazed upon her for some few seconds, remaining
quite motionless, and then, opening his arms, he surrounded her with his embrace, and pressing
her with all his strength close to his bosom, kissed her forehead, and her cheeks, and her
lips, and her eyes. His will was so masterful, his strength so great, and his motion so quick,
that she was powerless to escape from him till he relaxed his hold. Indeed she hardly struggled,
so much was she surprised and so soon released. But the moment that he left her he saw that
her face was burning red, and that the tears were streaming from her eyes. She stood for a
moment trembling, with her hands clenched, and with a look of scorn upon her lips and brow
that he had never seen before; and then she threw herself on a sofa, and, burying her face,
sobbed aloud; while her whole body was shaken as with convulsions. He leaned over her repentant,
not knowing what to do, not knowing how to speak. All ideas of his scheme had gone from him
now. He had offended her for ever past redemption. What could be the use now of any scheme?
And as he stood there he hated himself because of his scheme. The utter misery and disgrace
of the present moment had come upon him because he had thought more of himself than of her.
It was but a few moments since she had told him that she trusted him next to her God; and yet
in those few moments, he had shown himself utterly unworthy of that trust, and had destroyed
all her confidence. But he could not leave, her without speaking to her. 'Clara!' he said 'Clara.'
But she did not answer him. 'Clara; will you not speak to me? Will you not let me ask you to
forgive me?' But still she only sobbed. For her, at that moment, we may say that sobbing was
easier than speech. How was she to pardon so great an offence? How was she to resent such passionate
love?

But he could not continue to stand there motionless, all but speechless, while she lay with
her face turned away from him. He must at any rate in some manner take himself away out of
the room; and this he could not do, even in his present condition of unlimited disgrace, without
a word of farewell. 'Perhaps I had better go and leave you,' he said.

Then at last there came a voice, 'Oh, Will, why have you done this? Why have you treated me
so badly?' When he had last seen her face her mouth had been full of scorn, but, there was,
no scorn now in her voice. 'Why why why?'

Why indeed except that it was needful for him that she should know the depth of his passion.
'If you will forgive me, Clara, I will not offend you so again,' he said.

'You have offended me. What am I to say? What am I to do? I have no other friend.'

'I am a wretch. I know that I am a wretch.'

'I did not suspect that you would be so cruel. Oh, Will!'

But before he went she told him that she had forgiven him, and she had preached to him a solemn,
sweet sermon on the wickedness of yielding, to momentary impulses. Her low, grave words sank
into his ears as though they were divine; and when she said a word to him, blushing as she
spoke, of the sin of his passion and of what her sin would be, if she were to permit it, he
sat by her weeping like an infant, tears which were certainly tears of innocence. She had been
very angry with him; but I think she loved him better when, her sermon was finished than she
had ever loved him before.

There was no further question as to her going to Aylmer Castle, nor was any mention made of
Mrs Askerton's invitation to the cottage. The letter for Lady Aylmer was sent, and it was agreed
between them that Will should remain at Redicote till the answer from Yorkshire should come,
and should then convey Clara as far as London on her journey. And when he took leave of her
that afternoon, she was able to give him her hand in her old hearty, loving way, and to call
him Will with the old hearty, loving tone. And he,--he was able to accept these tokens of her
graciousness, as though they were signs of a pardon which she had been good to give, but which
he certainly had not deserved.

As he went back to Redicote, he swore to himself that he would never love any woman but her,--even
though she must be the wife of Captain Aylmer.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE LAST DAY AT BELTON

In course of post there came an answer from Lady Aylmer, naming a day for Clara's journey to
Yorkshire, and also a letter from Captain Aylmer, in, which he stated that he would meet her
in London and convey her down to Aylmer Park. 'The House is sitting,' he said, 'and therefore
I shall be a little troubled about my time; but I cannot allow that your first meeting with
my mother should take place in my absence.' This was all very well, but at the end of the letter
there was a word of caution that was not so well. 'I am sure, my dear Clara, that you will
remember how much is due to my mother's age, and character, and position. Nothing will be wanted
to the happiness of our marriage, if you can succeed in gaining her affection, and therefore
I make it my first request to you, that you should endeavour to win her good opinion.' There
was nothing perhaps really amiss, certainly nothing unreasonable, in such words from a future
husband to his future wife; but Clara, as she read them, shook her head and pressed her foot
against the ground in anger. It would not do. Sorrow would come and trouble and disappointment.
She did not say so, even to herself in words; but the words, though not spoken, were audible
enough to herself. She could not, would not, bend to Lady Aylmer, and she knew that trouble
would come of this visit.

I fear that many ladies will condemn Miss Amedroz when I tell them that she showed this letter
to her Cousin Will. It does not promise well for any of the parties concerned when a young
woman with two lovers can bring herself to show the love-letters of him to whom she is engaged
to the other lover whom she has refused! But I have two excuses to put forward in Clara's defence.
In the first place, Captain Aylmer's love-letters were not in truth love-letters, but were
letters of business; and in the next place, Clara was teaching herself to regard Will Belton
as her brother, and to forget that he had ever assumed the part of a lover.

She was so teaching herself, but I cannot say that the lesson was one easily learned; nor had
the outrage upon her of which Will had been guilty, and which was described in the last chapter,
made the teaching easier. But she had determined, nevertheless, that it should be so. When
she thought of Will her heart would become very soft towards him; and sometimes, when she thought
of Captain Aylmer, her heart would become anything but soft towards him. Unloving feelings
would be very strong within her bosom as she re-read his letters, and remembered that he had
not come to her, but had sent her seventy-five pounds to comfort her in her trouble! Nevertheless,
he was to be her husband, and she would do her duty. What might have happened had Will Belton
come to Belton Castle before she had known Frederic Aylmer of that she stoutly resolved that
she would never think at all; and consequently the thought was always intruding upon her.

'You will sleep one night in town, of course?' said Will.

'I suppose so. You know all about it. I shall do as I'm told.'

'You can't go down to Yorkshire from here in one day. Where would you like to stay in London?'

'How on earth should I know? Ladies do sleep at hotels in London sometimes, I suppose?'

'Oh yes. I can write and have rooms ready for you.'

'Then that difficulty is over,' said Clara.

But in Belton's estimation the difficulty was not exactly over. Captain Aylmer would, of course,
be in London that night, and it was a question with Will whether or no Clara was not bound
in honour to tell the--accursed beast, I am afraid Mr Belton called him in his soliloquies--where
she would lodge on the occasion. Or would it suffice that he, Will, should hand her over to
the enemy at the station of the Great Northern Railway on the following morning? All the little
intricacies of the question presented themselves to Will's imagination. How carefully he would
be with her, that the inn accommodation should suffice for her comfort! With what pleasure
would he order a little dinner for them two, making something of a gentle fete of the occasion!
How sedulously would he wait upon her with those little attentions, amounting almost to worship,
with which such men as Will Belton are prone to treat all women in exceptionable circumstances
when the ordinary routine of life has been disturbed! If she had simply been his cousin, and
if he had never regarded her otherwise, how happily could he have done all this! As things
now were, if it was left to him to do, he should do it, with what patience and grace might
be within his power; he would do it, though he would be mindful every moment of the bitterness
of the transfer which he would so soon be obliged to make; but he doubted whether it would
not be better for Clara's sake that the transfer should be made overnight. He would take her
up to London, because in that way he could be useful; and then he would go away and hide himself.
'Has Captain Aylmer said where he would meet you?' he asked after a pause.

'Of course I must write and tell him.'

'And is he to come to you when you reach London?'

'He has said nothing about that. 'He will probably be at the House of Commons, or too busy
somewhere to come to me then. But why do you ask? Do you wish to hurry through town?'

'Oh dear, no.'

'Or perhaps you have friends you want to see. Pray don't let me be in your way. I shall do
very well, you know.'

Belton rebuked her by a look before he answered her. 'I was only thinking,' he said, 'of what
would be most convenient for yourself. I have nobody to see, and nothing to do, and nowhere
to go to.' Then Clara understood it all, and said that she would write to Captain Aylmer and
ask him, to join them at the hotel.

She determined that she would see Mrs Askerton before she went; and as that lady did not come
to the Castle, Clara called upon her at the cottage. This she did the day before she left,
and she took her cousin with her. Belton had been at the cottage once or twice since the day
on which Mrs Askerton had explained to him how the Aylmer alliance might be extinguished, but
Colonel Askerton had always been there, and no reference had been made to the former conversation.
Colonel Askerton was not there now, and Belton was almost afraid that words would be spoken
to which he would hardly know how to listen.

'And so you are really going?' said Mrs Askerton.

'Yes; we start tomorrow,' said Clara.

'I am not thinking of the journey to London,' said Mrs Askerton, 'but of the danger and privations
of your subsequent progress to the North.'

'I shall do very well. I am not afraid that any one will eat me.'

'There are so many different ways of eating people! Are there not, Mr Belton?'

'I don't know about eating, but there are a great many ways of boring people,' said he.

'And I should think they will be great at that kind of thing at Aylmer Castle. One never hears
of Sir Anthony, but I can fancy Lady Aylmer to be a terrible woman.'

'I shall manage to hold my own, I dare say,' said Clara.

'I hope you will; I do hope you will,' said Mrs Askerton. 'I don't know whether you will be
powerful to do so, or whether you will fail; my heart is not absolute; but I do know what will
be the result if you are successful.'

'It is much more then than I know myself.'

'That I can believe too. Do you travel down to Yorkshire alone?'

'No; Captain Aylmer will meet me in town.'

Then Mrs Askerton looked at Mr Belton, but made no immediate reply; nor did she say anything
further about Clara's journey. She looked at Mr Belton, and Will caught her eye, and understood
that he was being rebuked for not having carried out that little scheme which, had been prepared
for him. But he had come to hate the scheme, and almost hated Mrs Askerton for proposing it.
He had declared to himself that her welfare, Clara's welfare, was the one thing which the should
regard; and he had told himself that he was not strong enough, either in purpose or in wit,
to devise schemes for her welfare. She was better able to manage things for herself than he
was to manage them for her. If she loved this 'accursed beast,' let her marry him; only for
that was now his one difficulty only he could not bring himself to think it possible that she
should love him.

'I suppose you will never see this place again?' said Mrs Askerton after a long pause.

'I hope I shall, very often,' said Clara. 'Why should I not see it again? It is not going out
of the family.'

'No not exactly out of the family. That is, it will belong to your cousin.'

'And cousins may be as far apart as strangers, you mean; but Will and I are not like that;
are we, Will?'

'I hardly know what we are like,' said he.

'You do not mean to say that you will throw me over? But the truth is, Mrs Askerton, that I
do not mean to be thrown over. I look upon him as my brother, and I intend to cling to him
as sisters do cling.'

'You will hardly come back here before you are married,' said Mrs Askerton. It was a terrible
speech for her to make, and could only be excused on the ground that the speaker was in truth
desirous of doing that which she thought would benefit both of those whom she addressed.

'Of course you are going to your wedding now?'

'I am doing nothing of the kind,' said Clara. 'How can you speak in that way to me so soon
after my father's death? It is a rebuke to me for being here at all.'

'I intend no rebuke, as you well know. What I mean is this; if you do not stay in Yorkshire
till you are married, let the time be when it may, where do you intend to go in the meantime?'

'My plans are not settled yet.'

'She will have this house if she pleases,' said Will. 'There will be no one else here. It will
be her own, to do as she likes with it.'

'She will hardly come here to be alone.'

'I will not be inquired into, my dear,' said Clara, speaking with restored good-humour. 'Of
course I am an unprotected female, and subject to disadvantages. Perhaps I have no plans for
the future; and if I have plans, perhaps I do not mean to divulge them.'

'I had better come to the point at once,' said Mrs Askerton. 'If if if it should ever suit
you, pray come here to us. Flowers shall not be more welcome in May. It is difficult to speak
of it all, though you both understand everything as well as I do. I cannot press my invitation
as another woman might.'

'Yes, you can,' said Clara with energy. 'Of course you can.'

'Can I? Then I do. Dear Clara, do come to us.' And then as she spoke Mrs Askerton knelt on
the ground at her visitor's knees. 'Mr Belton, do tell her that when she is tired with the
grandeur of Aylmer Park she may come to us here.'

'I don't know anything about the grandeur of Aylmer Park,' said Will, suddenly.

'But she may come here may she not?'

'She will not ask my leave,' said he.

'She says that you are her brother. Whose leave should she ask?'

'He knows that I should ask his rather than that of any living person,' said Clara.

'There, Mr Belton. Now you must say that she may come or that she may not.'

'I will say nothing. She knows what to do much better than I can tell her.'

Mrs Askerton was still kneeling, and again appealed to Clara. 'You hear what he says. What
do you say yourself? Will you come to us? that is, if such a visit will suit you in point of
convenience?'

'I will make no promise; but I know no reason why I should not.'

'And I must be content with that? Well: I will be content.' Then she got up. 'For such a one
as I am, that is a great deal. And, Mr Belton, let me tell you this I can be grateful to you,
though you cannot be gracious to me.'

'I hope I have not been ungracious,' said he.

'Upon my word, I cannot compliment you. But there is something so much better than grace, that
I can forgive you. You know, at any rate, how thoroughly I wish you well.'

Upon this Clara got up to take her leave, and the demonstrative affection of an embrace between
the two women afforded a remedy for the awkwardness of the previous conversation.

'God bless you, dearest,' said Mrs Askerton. 'May I write to you?'

'Certainly,' said Clara.

'And you will answer my letters?'

'Of course I will. You must tell me everything about the place and especially as to Bessy.
Bessy is never to be sold is she, Will? Bessy was the cow which Belton had given her.

'Not if you choose to keep her.'

'I will go down and see to her myself,' said Mrs Askerton, and will utter little prayers of
my own over her horns that certain events that I desire may come to pass. Good-bye, Mr Belton.
You may be as ungracious as you please, but it will not make any difference.'

When Clara and her cousin left the cottage they did not return to the house immediately, but
took a last walk round the park, and through the shrubbery, and up to the rocks on which a
remarkable scene bad once taken place between them. Few words were spoken as they were walking,
and there had been no agreement as to the path they would take. Each seemed to understand that
there was much of melancholy in their present mood, and that silence was more fitting than
speech. But when they reached the rocks Belton sat himself down, asking Clara's leave to stop
there for a moment. 'I don't suppose I shall ever come to this place again,' said he.

'You are as bad as Mrs Askerton,' said Clara.

'I do not think I shall ever come to this place again,' said he, repeating his words very solemnly.
At any rate, I will never do so willingly, unless--'

'Unless what?'

'Unless you are either my wife, or have promised to become so.'

'Oh, Will; you know that that is impossible.'

'Then it is impossible that I should come here again.'

'You know that I am engaged to another man.'

'Of course I do. I am not asking you to break your engagement. I am simply telling you that
in spite of that engagement I love you as well as I did love you before you had made it. I
have a right to let you know the truth.' As if she had not known it without his telling it
to her now! 'It was here that I told you that I loved you. I now repeat it here; and will never
come here again unless I may say the same thing over and over and over. That is all. We might
as well go on now.' But when he got up she sat down, as though unwilling to leave the spot.
It was still winter, and the rock was damp with cold drippings from the trees, and the moss
around was wet, and little pools of water had formed themselves in the shallow holes upon the
surface. She did not speak as she seated herself; but he was of course obliged to wait till
she should be ready to accompany him. 'It is too cold for you to sit there,' he said. 'Come,
Clara; I will not have you loiter here. It is cold and wet.'

'It is not colder for me than for you.'

'You are not used to that sort of thing as I am.'

'Will,' she said, 'you must never speak to me again as you spoke just now. Promise me that
you will not.'

'Promises will do no good in such a matter.'

'It is almost a repetition of what you did before though of course it is not so bad as that.'

'Everything I do is bad.'

'No, Will dear Will! Almost everything you do is good. But of what use can it be to either
of us for you to be thinking of that which can never be? Cannot you think of me as your sister
and only as your sister?

'No; I cannot.'

'Then it is not right that we should be together.'

'I know nothing of right. You ask me a question, and I suppose you don't wish that I should
tell you a lie.'

'Of course I do not wish that.'

'Therefore I tell you the truth. I love you as any other man loves the girl that he does love;
and, as far as I know myself now, I never can be happy unless you are my own.'

'Oh, Will, how can that be when I am engaged to marry another man?'

'As to your engagement I should care nothing. Does he love you as I love you? If he loves you,
why is he not here? If he loves you, why does he let his mother ill-use you, and treat you
with scorn? If he loves you as I love you, how could he write to you as he does write? Would
I write to you such a letter as that? Would I let you be here without coming to you to be looked
after by any one else? If you had said that you would be my wife, would I leave you in solitude
and sorrow, and then send you seventy-five pounds to console you? If you think he loves you,
Clara--'

'He thought he was doing right when he sent me the money.'

'But he shouldn't have thought it right. Never mind. I don't want to accuse him; but this I
know,--and you know; he does not love you as I love you.'

'What can I say to answer you?'

'Say that you will wait till you have seen him. Say that I may have a hope,--a chance; that
if he is cold, and hard, and,--and,--and, just what we know he is, then I may have a chance.'

'How can I say that when I am engaged to him? Cannot you understand that I am wrong to let
you speak of him as you do?'

'How else am I to speak of him? Tell me this. Do you love him?' 'Yes I do.'

'I don't believe it!'

'Will!'

'I don't believe it. Nothing on earth shall make me believe it. It is impossible;--impossible!'

'Do you mean to insult me, Will?'

'No; I do not mean to insult you, but I mean to tell you the truth. I do not think you love
that man as you ought to love the man whom you are going to marry. I should tell you just the
same thing if I were really your brother. Of course it isn't that I suppose you love any one
else me for instance. I'm not such a fool as that. But I don't think you love him; and I'm
quite sure he doesn't love you. That's just what I believe; and if I do believe it, how am
I to help telling you?'

'You've no right to have such beliefs.'

'How am I to help it? Well;--never mind. I won't let you sit there any longer. At any rate
you'll be able to understand now that I shall never come to this place any more.' Clara, as
she got up to obey him, felt that she also ought never to see it again;--unless, indeed,--unless--

They passed that evening together without any reference to the scene on the rock, or any allusion
to their own peculiar troubles. Clara, though she would not admit to Mrs Askerton that she
was going away from the place for ever, was not the less aware that such might very probably
be the case. She had no longer any rights of ownership at Belton Castle, and all that had taken
place between her and her cousin tended to make her feel that under no circumstances could
she again reside there. Nor was it probable that she would be able to make to Mrs Askerton
the visit of which they had been talking. If Lady Aylmer were wise so Clara thought there would
be no mention of Mrs Askerton at Aylmer Park; and, if so, of course she would not outrage her
future husband by proposing to go to a house of which she knew that he disapproved. If Lady
Aylmer were not wise if she should take upon herself the task of rebuking Clara for her friendship
then, in such circumstances as those, Clara believed that the visit to Mrs Askerton might be
possible.

But she determined that she would leave the home in which she had been born, and had passed
so many happy and so many unhappy days, as though she were never to see it again. All her packing
had been done, down to the last fragment of an old letter that was stuffed into her writing-desk;
but, nevertheless, she went about the house with a candle in her hand, as though she were still
looking that nothing had been omitted, while she was in truth saying farewell in her heart
to every corner which she knew so well. When at last she came down to pour out for her desolate
cousin his cup of tea, she declared that everything was done. 'You may go to work now, Will,'
she said, and do what you please with the old place. My jurisdiction is over.'

'Not altogether,' said he. He no longer spoke like a despairing lover. Indeed there was a smile
round his mouth, and his voice was cheery.

'Yes altogether. I give over my sovereignty from this moment and a dirty dilapidated sovereignty
it is.'

'That's all very well to say.'

'And also very well to do. What best pleases me in going to Aylmer Castle just now is the power
it gives me of doing at once that which otherwise I might have put off till the doing of it
had become much more unpleasant. Mr Belton, there is the key of the cellar which I believe
gentlemen always regard as the real sign of possession. I don't advise you to trust much to
the contents.' He took the key from her, and without saying a word chucked it across the room
on to an old sofa. 'If you won't take it, you had better, at any rate, have it tied up with
the others,' she said.

'I dare say you'll know where to find it when you want it,' he answered.

'I shall never want it.'

'Then it's as well there as anywhere else.'

'But you won't remember, Will.'

'I don't suppose I shall have occasion for remembering.' Then he paused a moment before he
went on. 'I have told you before that I do not intend to take possession of the place. I do
not regard it as mine at all.'

'And whose is it, then?'

'Yours.'

'No, dear Will; it is not mine. You know that.'

'I intend that it shall be so, and therefore you might as well put the keys where you will
know how to find them.'

Alter he had gone she did take up the key, and tied it with sundry others, which she intended
to give to the old servant who was to be left in charge of the house. But after a few moments'
consideration she took the cellar key again off the bunch, and put it back upon the sofa in
the place to which he had thrown it.

On the following morning they started on their journey. The old fly from Redicote was not used
on this occasion, as Belton had ordered a pair of post-horses and a comfortable carriage from
Taunton. 'I think it such a shame,' said Clara, 'going away for the last time without having
Jerry and the grey horse.' Jerry was the man who had once driven her to Taunton when the old
horse fell with her on the road. 'But Jerry and the grey horse could not have taken you and
me too, and all our luggage,' said Will. 'Poor Jerry! I suppose not,' said Clara; 'but still
there is an injury done in going without him.'

There were four or five old dependents of the family standing round the door to bid her adieu,
to all of whom she gave her hand with a cordial pressure. They, at least, seemed to regard
her departure as final. And of course it was final. She had assured herself of that during
the night. And just as they were about to start, both Colonel and Mrs Askerton walked up to
the door. 'He wouldn't let you go without bidding you farewell,' said Mrs Askerton. 'I am so
glad to shake hands with him,' Clara answered. Then the colonel spoke a word to her, and, as
he did so, his wife contrived to draw Will Belton for a moment behind the carriage. 'Never
give it up, Mr Belton,' said she eagerly. 'If you persevere she'll be yours yet.' 'I fear not,'
he said. 'Stick to her like a man,' said she, pressing his hand in her vehemence. 'If you do,
you'll live to thank me for having told you so.' Will had not a word to say for himself, but
he thought that he would stick to her. Indeed, he thought that he had stuck to her pretty well.

At last they were off, and the village of Belton was behind them; Will, glancing into his cousin's
face, saw that her eyes were laden with tears, and refrained from speaking. As they passed
the ugly red-brick rectory-house, Clara for a moment put her face to the window, and then withdrew
it. 'There is nobody there,' she said, 'who will care to see me. Considering that I have lived
here all my life, is it not odd that there should be so few to bid me good-bye?'

'People do not like to put themselves forward on such occasions,' said Will.

'People there are no people. No one ever had so few to care for them as I have. And now But
never mind; I mean to do very well, and I shall do very well.' Belton would not take advantage
of her in her sadness, and they reached the station at Taunton almost without another word.

Of course they had to wait there for half an hour, and of course the waiting was very tedious.
To Will it was very tedious indeed, as he was not by nature good at waiting. To Clara, who
on this occasion sat perfectly still in the waiting-room, with her toes on the fender before
the fire, the evil of the occasion was not so severe. 'The man would take two hours for the
journey, though I told him an hour and a half would be enough,' said Will, querulously.

'But we might have had an accident.'

'An accident! What accident? People don't have accidents every day.'

At last the train came and they started. Clara, though she had with her her best friend I may
almost say the friend whom in the world she loved the best did not have an agreeable journey.
Belton would not talk; but as he made no attempt at reading, Clara did not like to have recourse
to the book which she had in her travelling-bag. He sat opposite to her, opening the window
and shutting it as he thought she might like it, but looking wretched and forlorn. At Swindon
he brightened up for a moment under the excitement of getting her something to eat, but that
relaxation lasted only for a few minutes. Alter that he relapsed again into silence till the
train had passed Slough and he knew that in another half-hour they would be in London. Then
he leant over her and spoke.

'This will probably be the last opportunity I shall have of saying a few words to you alone.'

'I don't know that at all, Will.'

'It will be the last for a long time at any rate. And as I have got something to say, I might
as well say it now. I have thought a great deal about the property the Belton estate, I mean;
and I don't intend to take it as mine.'

'That is sheer nonsense, Will. You must take it, as it is yours, and can't belong to any one else.'

'I have thought it over, and I am quite sure that all the business of the entail was wrong
radically wrong from first to last. You are to understand that my special regard for you has
nothing whatever to do with it. I should do the same thing if I felt that I hated you.'

'Don't hate me, Will!'

'You know what I mean. I think the entail was all wrong, and I shan't take advantage of it.
It's not common sense that I should have everything because of poor Charley's misfortune.'

'But it seems to me that it does not depend upon you or upon me, or upon anybody. It is yours
by law, you know.'

'And therefore it won't be sufficient for me to give it up without making it yours by law also
which I intend to do. I shall stay in town tomorrow and give instructions to Mr Green. I have
thought it proper to tell you this now, in order that you may mention it to Captain Aylmer.'

They were leaning over in the carriage one towards the other; her face had been slightly turned
away from him; but now she slowly raised her eyes till they met his, and looking into the depth
of them, and seeing there all his love and all his suffering, and the great nobility of his
nature, her heart melted within her. Gradually, as her tears came,--would come, in spite of
all her constraint, she again turned her face towards the window. 'I can't talk now,' she said,
'indeed I can't.'

'There is no need for any more talking about it,' he replied. And there was no more talking
between them, on that subject or on any other, till the tickets bad been taken and the train
was again in motion. Then he referred to it again for a moment. 'You will tell Captain Aylmer,
my dear.'

'I will tell him what you say, that he may know your generosity. But of course he will agree
with me that no such offer can be accepted. It is quite,--quite,--quite out of the question.'

'You had better tell him and say nothing more; or you can ask him to see Mr Green after tomorrow.
He, as a man who understands business, will know that this arrangement must be made, if I choose
to make it. Come; here we are. Porter, a four-wheeled cab. Do you go with him, and I'll look
after the luggage.'

Clara, as she got into the cab, felt that she ought to have been more stout in her resistance
to his offer. But it would be better, perhaps, that she should write to him from Aylmer Park,
and get Frederic to write also.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY HOTEL

At the door of the hotel of the Great Northern Railway Station they met Captain Aylmer. Rooms
had been taken there because they were to start by an early train on that line in the morning,
and Captain Aylmer had undertaken to order dinner. There was nothing particular in the meeting
to make it unpleasant to our friend Will. The fortunate rival could do no more in the hall
of the inn than give his hand to his affianced bride, as he might do to any other lady, and
then suggest to her that she should go upstairs and see her room. When he had done this, he
also offered his hand to Belton; and Will, though he would almost sooner have cut off his own,
was obliged to take it. In a few minutes the two men were standing alone together in the sitting-room.

'I suppose you found it cold coming up?' said the captain.

'Not particularly,' said Will.

'It's rather a long journey from Belton.'

'Not very long,' said Will.

'Not for you, perhaps; but Miss Amedroz must be tired.'

Belton was angry at having his cousin called Miss Amedroz feeling that the reserve of the name
was intended to keep him at a distance. But he would have been equally angry had Aylmer called
her Clara.

'My cousin,' said Will, stoutly, 'is able to bear slight fatigue of that kind without suffering.'

'I didn't suppose she suffered; but journeys are always tedious, especially where there is
so much roadwork. I believe you are twenty miles from the station?'

'Belton Castle is something over twenty miles from Taunton.'

'We are seven from our station at Aylmer Park, and we think that a great deal.'

'I'm more than that at Plaistow,' said Will.

'Oh, indeed. Plaistow is in Norfolk, I believe?'

'Yes Plaistow is in Norfolk.'

'I suppose you'll leave it now and go into Somersetshire,' suggested Captain Aylmer.

'Certainly not. Why should I leave it?'

'I thought, perhaps as Belton Castle is now your own'

'Plaistow Hall is more my own than Belton Castle, if that signifies anything which it doesn't.'
This he said in an angry tone, which, as he became conscious of it, he tried to rectify. 'I've
a deal of stock and all that sort of thing at Plaistow, and couldn't very well leave it, even
if I wished it,' he said.

'You've pretty good shooting too, I suppose,' said Aylmer.

'As far as partridges go I'll back it against most properties of the same extent in any county.'

'I'm too busy a man myself,' said the captain, 'to do much at partridges. We think more of
pheasants down with us.'

'I dare say.'

'But a Norfolk man like you is of course keen about birds.'

'We are obliged to put up with what we've got, you know not but what I believe there is a better
general head of game in Norfolk than in any other county in England.'

'That's what makes your hunting rather poor.'

'Our hunting poor! Why do you say it's poor?'

'So many of you are against preserving foxes.'

'I'll tell you what, Captain Aylmer; I don't know what pack you hunt with, but I'll bet you
a five-pound note that we killed more foxes last year than you did;--that is, taking three
days a week. Nine-and-twenty brace and a half in a short season I don't call poor at all.'

Captain Aylmer saw that the man was waxing angry, and made no further allusion either to the
glories or deficiencies of Norfolk. As he could think of no other subject on which to speak
at the spur of the moment, he sat himself down and took up a paper; Belton took up another,
and so they remained till Clara made her appearance. That Captain Aylmer read his paper is
probable enough. He was not a man easily disconcerted, and there was nothing in his present
position to disconcert him. But I feel sure that Will Belton did not read a word. He was angry
with this rival, whom he hated, and was angry with himself for showing his anger. He would
have wished to appear to the best advantage before this man, or rather before Clara in this
man's presence; and he knew that in Clara's absence he was making such a fool of himself that
he would be unable to recover his prestige. He had serious thoughts within his own breast whether
it would not be as well for him to get up from his seat and give Captain Aylmer a thoroughly
good thrashing: 'Drop into him and punch his head,' as he himself would have expressed it.
For the moment such an exercise would give him immense gratification. The final results would,
no doubt, be disastrous; but then, all future results, as far as he could see them, were laden
with disaster. He was still thinking of this, eyeing the man from under the newspaper, and
telling himself that the feat would probably be too easy to afford much enjoyment, when Clara
re-entered the room. Then he got up, acting on the spur of the moment got up quickly and suddenly,
and began to bid her adieu.

'But you are going to dine here, Will?' she said.

'No; I think not.'

'You promised you would. You told me you had nothing to do to-night.' Then she turned to Captain
Aylmer. 'You expect my cousin to dine with us today?'

'I ordered dinner for three,' said Captain Aylmer.

'Oh, very well; it's all the same thing to me,' said Will.

'And to me,' said Captain Aylmer.

'It's not all the same thing to me,' said Clara. 'I don't know when I may see my cousin again.
I should think it very bad of you, Will, if you went away this evening.'

'I'll go out just for half an hour,' said he, 'and be back to dinner.'

'We dine at seven,' said the captain. Then Belton took his hat and left the two lovers together.

'Your cousin seems to be a rather surly sort of gentleman.' Those were the first words which
Captain Aylmer spoke when he was alone with the lady of his love. Nor was he demonstrative
of his affection by any of the usual signs of regard which are permitted to accepted lovers.
He did not offer to kiss her, nor did he attempt to take her hand with a warmer pressure now
that he was alone with her. He probably might have gone through some such ceremony had he first
met Clara in a position propitious to such purposes; but, as it was, he had been a little ruffled
by Will Belton's want of good breeding, and had probably forgotten that any such privileges
might have been his. I wonder whether any remembrance flashed across Clara's mind at this moment
of her Cousin Will's great iniquity in the sitting-room at Belton Castle. She thought of it
very often, and may possibly have thought of it now.

'I don't believe that he is surly, Frederic,' she said. 'He may, perhaps, be out of humour.'

'And why should he be out of humour with me? I only suggested to him that it might suit him
to live at Belton instead of at that farm of his, down in Norfolk.'

'He is very fond of Plaistow, I fancy.'

'But that's no reason why he should be cross with me. I don't envy him his taste, that's all.
If he can't understand that he, with his name, ought to live on the family property which belongs
to him, it isn't likely that anything that I can say will open his eyes upon the subject.'

'The truth is, Frederic, he has some romantic notion about the Belton estate.'

'What romantic notion?'

'He thinks it should not be his at all.'

'Whose then? Who does he think should have it?'

'Of course there can be nothing in it, you know; of course, it's all nonsense.'

'But what is his idea? Who does he think should be the owner?'

'He means that it should be mine. But of course, Frederic, it is all nonsense; we know that.'

It did not seem to be quite clear at the moment that Frederic had altogether made up his mind
upon the subject. As he heard those tidings from Clara there came across his face a puzzled,
dubious look, as though he did not quite understand the proposition which had been suggested
to him as though some consideration were wanted before he could take the idea home to himself
and digest it, so as to enable himself to express an opinion upon it. There might be something
in it some show of reason which did not make itself clear to Clara's feminine mind. 'I have
never known what was the precise nature of your father's marriage settlement,' said he.

Then Clara began to explain with exceeding eagerness that there was no question as to the accuracy
of the settlement, or the legality of the entail that indeed there was no question as to anything.
Her Cousin Will was romantic, and that was the end of it. Of course quite as a matter of course,
this romance would lead to nothing; and she had only mentioned the subject now to show that
her cousin's mind might possibly be disturbed when the question of his future residence was
raised. 'I quite feel with you,' she said, 'that it will be much nicer that he should live
at the old family place; but just at present I do not speak about it.'

'If he is thinking of not claiming Belton, it is quite another thing,' said Aylmer.

'It is his without any claiming,' said Clara.

'Ah, well; it will all be settled before long,' said Aylmer.

'It is settled already,' said Clara.

At seven the three met again, and when the dinner was on the table there was some little trouble
as to the helping of the fish. Which of the two men should take the lead on the occasion? But
Clara decided the question by asking her cousin to make himself useful. There can be little
doubt but that Captain Aylmer would have distributed the mutton chops with much more grace,
and have carved the roast fowl with much more skill; but it suited Clara that Will should have
the employment, and Will did the work. Captain Aylmer, throughout the dinner, endeavoured to
be complaisant, and Clara exerted herself to talk as though all matters around them were easy.
Will, too, made his effort, every now and then speaking a word, and restraining himself from
snapping at his rival; but the restraint was in itself evident, and there were symptoms throughout
the dinner that the untamed man was longing to fly at the throat of the man that was tamed.

'Is it supposed that I ought to go away for a little while?' said Clara, as soon as she had
drunk her own glass of wine.

'Oh dear, no,' said the captain. 'We'll have a cup of coffee that is, if Mr Belton likes it.'

'It's all the same to me,' said Will.

'But won't you have some more wine?' Clara asked.

'No more for me,' said Captain Aylmer. 'Perhaps Mr Belton--'

'Who; I? No; I don't want any more wine,' said Will; and then they were all silent.

It was very hard upon Clara. After a while the coffee came, and even that was felt to be a
comfort. Though there was no pouring out to be done, no actual employment enacted, still the
manoeuvring of the cups created a diversion. 'If either of you like to smoke,' she said, 'I
shan't mind it in the least.' But neither of them would smoke. 'At what hour shall we get to
Aylmer Park tomorrow?' Clara asked.

'At half-past four,' said the captain.

'Oh, indeed;--so early as that.' What was she to say next? Will, who had not touched his coffee,
and who was sitting stiffly at the table as though he were bound in duty not to move, was becoming
more and more grim every moment. She almost repented that she had asked him to remain with
them. Certainly there was no comfort in his company, either to them or to himself. 'How long
shall you remain in town, Will, before you go down to Plaistow?' she asked.

'One day,' he replied.

'Give my kind love,--my very kindest love to Mary. I wish I knew her. I wish I could think
that I might soon know her.'

'You'll never know her,' said Belton. The tone of his voice was actually savage as he spoke
so much so that Aylmer turned in his chair to look at him, and Clara did not dare to answer
him. But now that he had been made to speak, it seemed that he was determined to persevere.
'How should you ever know her? Nothing will ever bring you into Norfolk, and nothing will ever
take her out of it.'

'I don't quite see why either of those assertions should be made.'

'Nevertheless they're both true. Had you ever meant to come to Norfolk you would have come
now.' He had not even asked her to come, having arranged with his sister that in their existing
circumstances any such asking would not be a kindness; and yet he rebuked her now for not coming!

'My mother is very anxious that Miss Amedroz should pay her a visit at Aylmer Park,' said the
captain.

'And she's going to Aylmer Park, so your mother's anxiety need not disturb her any longer.'

'Come, Will, don't be out of temper with us,' said Clara. 'It is our last night together. We,
who are so dear to each other, ought not to quarrel.'

'I'm not quarrelling with you, said he.

'I can hardly suppose that Mr Belton wants to quarrel with me,' said Captain Aylmer, smiling.

'I'm sure he does not,' said Clara. Belton sat silent, with his eyes fixed upon the table,
and with a dark frown upon his brow. He did long to quarrel with Captain Aylmer; but was still
anxious, if it might be possible, to save himself from what he knew would be a transgression.

'To use a phrase common with us down in Yorkshire,' said Aylmer, 'I should say that Mr Belton
had got out of bed the wrong side this morning.'

'What the d---- does it matter to you, sir, what side I got out of bed?' said Will, clenching
both his fists. Oh--if he might have only been allowed to have a round of five minutes with
Aylmer, he would have been restored to good temper for that night, let the subsequent results
have been what they might. He moved his feet impatiently on the floor, as though he were longing
to kick something; and then he pushed his coffee-cup away from him, upsetting half the contents
upon the table, and knocking down a wineglass, which was broken.

'Will;--Will!' said Clara, looking at him with imploring eyes.

'Then he shouldn't talk to me about getting out of bed on the wrong side; I didn't say anything
to him.'

'It is unkind of you, Will, to quarrel with Captain Aylmer because he is my friend.'

'I don't want to quarrel with him; or, rather, as I won't quarrel with him because you don't
wish it, I'll go away. I can't do more than that. I didn't want to dine with him here. There's
my cousin Clara, Captain Aylmer; I love her better than all the world besides. Love her! It
seems to me that there's nothing else in the world for me to love. I'd give my heart for her
this minute. All that I have in the world is hers. Oh love her! I don't believe that it's in
you to know what I mean when I say that I love her! She tells me that he's going to be your
wife. You can't suppose that I can be very comfortable under those circumstances or that I
can be very fond of you. I'm not very fond of you. Now I'll go away, and then I shan't trouble
you any more. But look here if ever you should ill-treat her, whether you marry her or whether
you don't, I'll crush every bone in your skin.' Having so spoken he went to the door, but stopped
himself before he left the room. 'Good-bye, Clara. I've got a word or two more to say to you,
but I'll write you a line down-stairs. You can show it to him if you please. It'll only be
about business. Good-night.'

She had got up and followed him to the door, and he had taken her by the hand. 'You shouldn't
let your passion get the better of you in this way,' she said; but the tone of her voice was
very soft, and her eyes were full of love.

'I suppose not,' said he.

'I can forgive him,' said Captain Aylmer.

'D---- your forgiveness,' said Will Belton. Then Clara dropped the hand and started back, and
the door was shut, and Will Belton was gone.

'Your cousin seems to be a nice sort of young man,' said Aylmer.

'Cannot you understand it all, Frederic, and pardon him?'

'I can pardon him easily enough; but one doesn't like men who are given to threatening. He's
not the sort of man that I took him to be.'

'Upon my word I think he's as nearly perfect as a man can be.'

'Then you like men to swear at you, and to swagger like Bobadils and to misbehave themselves,
so that one has to blush for them if a servant chances to hear them. Do you really think that
he has conducted himself today like a gentleman?'

'I know that he is a gentleman,' said Clara.

'I must confess I have no reason for supposing him to be so but your assurance.'

'And I hope that is sufficient, Frederic.'

Captain Aylmer did not answer her at once, but sat for awhile silent, considering what he would
say. Clara, who understood his moods, knew that he did not mean to drop the subject, and resolved
that she would defend her cousin, let Captain Aylmer attack him as he would.

'Upon my word, I hardly know what to say about it,' said Aylmer.

'Suppose then, that we say nothing more. Will not that be best?'

'No, Clara. I cannot now let the matter pass by in that way. You have asked me whether I do
not think Mr Belton to be a gentleman, and I must say that I doubt it. Pray hear me out before
you answer me. I do not want to be harder upon him than I can help; and I would have borne,
and I did bear from him, a great deal in silence. But he said that to me which I cannot allow
to pass without notice. He had the bad taste to speak to me of his his regard for you.'

'I cannot see what harm he did by that except to himself.'

'I believe that it is understood among gentlemen that one man never speaks to another man about
the lady the other man means to marry, unless they are very intimate friends indeed. What I
mean is, that if Mr Belton had understood how gentlemen live together he would never have said
anything to me about his affection for you. He should at any rate have supposed me to be ignorant
of it. There is something in the very idea of his doing so that is in the highest degree in-delicate.
I wonder, Clara, that you do not see this yourself.'

'I think he was indiscreet.'

'Indiscreet! Indiscreet is not the word for such conduct. I must say, that as far as my opinion
goes, it was ungentlemanlike.'

'I don't believe that there is a nobler-minded gentleman in all London than my Cousin Will.'

'Perhaps it gratified you to hear from him the assurance of his love?' said Captain Aylmer.

'If it is your wish to insult me, Frederic, I will leave you'.

'It is my wish to make you understand that your judgment has been wrong.'

'That is simply a matter of opinion, and as I do not wish to argue with you about it, I had
better go. At any rate I am very tired. Goodnight, Frederic.' He then told her what arrangements
he had made for the morrow, and what hour she would be called, and when she would have her
breakfast. After that he let her go without making any further allusion to Will Belton.

It must be admitted that the meeting between the lovers had not been auspicious; and it must
be acknowledged, also, that Will Belton had behaved very badly. I am not aware of the existence
of that special understanding among gentlemen in respect to the ladies they are going to marry
which Captain Aylmer so eloquently described; but, nevertheless, I must confess that Belton
would have done better had he kept his feelings to himself. And when he talked of crushing
his rival's bones, he laid himself justly open to severe censure. But, for all that, he was
no Bobadil. He was angry, sore, and miserable; and in his anger, soreness, and misery, he had
allowed himself to be carried away. He felt very keenly his own folly, even as he was leaving
the room, and as he made his way out of the hotel he hated himself for his own braggadocio.
'I wish some one would crush my bones,' he said to himself almost audibly. 'No one ever deserved
to be crushed better than I do.'

Clara, when she got to her own room, was very serious and very sad. What was to be the end
of it all? This had been her first meeting after her father's death with the man whom she had
promised to marry; indeed, it was the first meeting after her promise had been given; and they
had only met to quarrel. There had been no word of love spoken between them. She had parted
from him now almost in anger, without the slightest expression of confidence between them almost
as those part who are constrained by circumstances to be together, but who yet hate each other
and know that they hate each other. Was there in truth any love between him and her? And if
there was none, could there be any advantage, any good either to him or to her, in this journey
of hers to Aylmer Park? Would it not be better that she should send for him and tell him that
they were not suited for each other, and that thus she should escape from all the terrors of
Lady Aylmer? As she thought of this, she could not but think of Will Belton also. Not a gentleman!
If Will Belton was not a gentleman, she desired to know nothing further of gentlemen. Women
are so good and kind that those whom they love they love almost the more when they commit offences,
because of the offences so committed. Will Belton had been guilty of great offences,--of offences
for which Clara was prepared to lecture him in the gravest manner should opportunities for
such lectures ever come;--but I think that they had increased her regard for him rather than
diminished it. She could not, however, make up her mind to send for Captain Aylmer, and when
she went to bed she had resolved that the visit to Yorkshire must be made.

Before she left the room the following morning, a letter was brought to her from her cousin,
which had been written that morning. She asked the maid to inquire for him, and sent down word
to him that if he were in the house she specially wished to see him; but the tidings came from
the hall porter that he had gone out very early, and had expressly said that he should not
breakfast at the inn.

The letter was as follows:--

'Dear Clara,

'I meant to have handed to you the enclosed in person, but I lost my temper last night like
a fool as I am and so I couldn't do it. You need not have any scruple about the money which
I send,L100 in ten, ten-pound notes,--as it is your own. There is the rent due up to your father's
death, which is more than what I now enclose, and there will be a great many other items, as
to all of which you shall have a proper account. When you want more, you had better draw on
me, till things are settled. It shall all be done as soon as possible. It would not be comfortable
for you to go away without money of your own, and I suppose you would not wish that he should
pay for your journeys and things before you are married.

'Of course I made a fool of myself yesterday. I believe that I usually do. It is not any good
my begging your pardon, for I don't suppose I shall ever trouble you any more. Good-bye, and
God bless you.

'Your affectionate Cousin,

'WILLIAM BELTON.

'It was a bad day for me when I made up my mind to go to Belton Castle last summer.'

Clara, when she had read the letter, sat down and cried, holding the bundle of notes in her
hand. What would she do with them? Should she send them back? Oh no she would do nothing to
displease him, or to make him think that she was angry with him. Besides, she had none of that
dislike to taking his money which she had felt as to receiving money from Captain Aylmer. He
had said that she would be his sister, and she would take from him any assistance that a sister
might properly take from a brother.

She went down-stairs and met Captain Aylmer in the sitting-room. He stepped up to her as soon
as the door was closed, and she could at once see that he had determined to forget the unpleasantness
of the previous evening. He stepped up to her, and gracefully taking her by one hand, and passing
the other behind her waist, saluted her in a becoming and appropriate manner. She did not like
it. She especially disliked it, believing in her heart of hearts that she would never become
the wife of this man whom she had professed to love and whom she really had once loved. But
she could only bear it. And, to say the truth, there was not much suffering of that kind to
be borne.

Their journey down to Yorkshire was very prosperous. He maintained his good humour throughout
the day, and never once said a word about Will Belton. Nor did he say a word about Mrs Askerton.
'Do your best to please my mother, Clara,' he said, as they were driving up from the park lodges
to the house. This was fair enough, and she therefore promised him that she would do her best.

CHAPTER XXV

MISS AMEDROZ HAS SOME HASHED CHICKEN

Clara felt herself to be a coward as the Aylmer Park carriage, which had been sent to meet
her at the station, was drawn up at Sir Anthony Aylmer's door. She had made up her mind that
she would not bow down to Lady Aylmer, and yet she was afraid of the woman. As she got out
of the carriage, she looked up, expecting to see her in the hall; but Lady Aylmer was too accurately
acquainted with the weights and measures of society for any such movement as that. Had her
son brought Lady Emily to the house as his future bride, Lady Aylmer would probably have been
in the hall when the arrival took place; and had Clara possessed ten thousand pounds of her
own, she would probably have been met at the drawing-room door; but as she had neither money
nor title as she in fact brought with her no advantages of any sort Lady Aylmer was found stitching
a bit of worsted, as though she had expected no one to come to her. And Belinda Aylmer was
stitching also by special order from her mother. The reader will remember that Lady Aylmer
was not without strong hope that the engagement might even yet be broken off. Snubbing, she
thought, might probably be efficacious to this purpose, and so Clara was to be snubbed.

Clara, who had just promised to do her best to gain Lady Aylmer's opinion, and who desired
to be in some way true to her promise, though she thoroughly believed that her labour would
be in vain, put on her pleasantest smile as she entered the room. Belinda, under the pressure
of the circumstances, forgetting somewhat of her mother's injunctions, hurried to the door
to welcome the stranger. Lady Aylmer kept her chair, and even maintained her stitch, till Clara
was half across the room. Then she got up, and with great mastery over her voice, made her
little speech.

'We are delighted to see you, Miss Amedroz,' she said, putting out her hand of which Clara,
however, felt no more than the finger.

'Quite delighted,' said Belinda, yielding a fuller grasp. Then there were affectionate greetings
between Frederic and his mother and Frederic and his sister, during which Clara stood by, ill
at ease. Captain Aylmer said not a word as to the footing on which his future wife had come
to his father's house. He did not ask his mother to receive her as another daughter, or his
sister to take his Clara to her heart as a sister. There had been no word spoken of recognized
intimacy. Clara knew that the Aylmers were cold people. She had learned as much as that from
Captain Aylmer's words to herself, and from his own manner. But she had not expected to be
so frozen by them as was the case with her now. In ten minutes she was sitting down with her
bonnet still on, and Lady Aylmer was again at her stitches.

'Shall I show you your room?' said Belinda.

'Wait a moment, my dear,' said Lady Aylmer. 'Frederic has gone to see if Sir Anthony is in
his study.'

Sir Anthony was found in his study, and now made his appearance.

'So this is Clara Amedroz,' he said. 'My dear, you are welcome to Aylmer Park.' This was so
much better, that the kindness expressed though there was nothing special in it brought a tear
into Clara's eye, and almost made her love Sir Anthony.

'By the by, Sir Anthony, have you seen Darvel? Darvel was wanting to see you especially about
Nuggins. Nuggins says that he'll take the bullocks now.' This was said by Lady Aylmer, and
was skilfully arranged by her to put a stop to anything like enthusiasm on the part of Sir
Anthony. Clara Amedroz had been invited to Aylmer Park, and was to be entertained there, but
it would not be expedient that she should be made to think that anybody was particularly glad
to see her, or that the family was at all proud of the proposed connexion. Within five minutes
after this she was up in her room, and had received from Belinda tenders of assistance as to
her lady's maid. Both the mother and daughter had been anxious to learn whether Clara would
bring her own maid. Lady Aylmer, thinking that she would do so, had already blamed her for
extravagance. 'Of course Fred will have to pay for the journey and all the rest of it,' she
had said. But as soon as she had perceived that Clara had come without a servant, she had perceived
that any young woman who travelled in that way must be unfit to be mated with her son. Clara,
whose intelligence in such matters was sharp enough, assured Belinda that she wanted no assistance.
'I dare say you think it very odd,' she said, 'but I really can dress myself.' And when the
maid did come to unpack the things, Clara would have sent her away at once had she been able.
But the maid, who was not a young woman, was obdurate. 'Oh no, miss; my lady wouldn't be pleased.
If you please, miss, I'll do it.' And so the things were unpacked.

Clara was told that they dined at half-past seven, and she remained alone in her room till
dinner-time, although it had not yet struck five when she had gone upstairs. The maid had brought
her up a cup of tea, and she seated herself at her fire, turning over in her mind the different
members of the household in which she found herself. It would never do. She told herself over
and over again that it would never come to pass that that woman should be her mother-in-law,
or that that other woman should be her sister. It was manifest to her that she was distasteful
to them; and she had not lost a moment in assuring herself that they were distasteful to her.
What purpose could it answer that she should strive not to like them, for no such strife was
possible but to appear to like them? The whole place and everything about it was antipathetic
to her. Would it not be simply honest to Captain Aylmer that she should tell him so at once,
and go away? Then she remembered that Frederic had not spoken to her a single word since she
had been under his father's roof. What sort of welcome would have been accorded to her had
she chosen to go down to Plaistow Hall?

At half-past seven she made her way by herself downstairs. In this there was some difficulty,
as she remembered nothing of the rooms below, and she could not at first find a servant. But
a man at last did come to her in the hall, and by him she was shown into the drawing-room.
Here she was alone for a few minutes. As she looked about her, she thought that no room she
had ever seen had less of the comfort of habitation. It was not here that she had met Lady
Aylmer before dinner. There had, at any rate, been in that other room work things, and the
look of life which life gives to a room. But here there was no life. The furniture was all
in its place, and everything was cold and grand and comfortless. They were making company of
her at Aylmer Park!

Clara was intelligent in such matters, and understood it all thoroughly.

Lady Aylmer was the first person to come to her. 'I hope my maid has been with you,' said she
to which Clara muttered something intended for thanks. 'You'll find Richards a very clever
woman, and quite a proper person.'

'I don't at all doubt that.'

'She has been here a good many years, and has perhaps little ways of her own but she means
to be obliging.'

'I shall give her very little trouble, Lady Aylmer. I am used to dress myself.' I am afraid
this was not exactly true as to Clara's past habits; but she could dress herself, and intended
to do so in future, and in this way justified the assertion to herself.

'You had better let Richards come to you, my dear, while you are here,' said Lady Aylmer, with
a slight smile on her countenance which outraged Clara more even than the words. 'We like to
see young ladies nicely dressed here.' To be told that she was to be nicely dressed because
she was at Aylmer Park! Her whole heart was already up in rebellion. Do her best to please
Lady Aylmer! It would be utterly impossible to her to make any attempt whatever in that direction.
There was something in her ladyship's eye a certain mixture of cunning, and power, and hardness
in the slight smile that would gather round her mouth, by which Clara was revolted. She already
understood much of Lady Aylmer, but in one thing she was mistaken. She thought that she saw
simply the natural woman; but she did, in truth, see the woman specially armed with an intention
of being disagreeable, made up to give offence, and prepared to create dislike and enmity.
At the present moment nothing further was said, as Captain Aylmer entered the room, and his
mother immediately began to talk to him in whispers.

The first two days of Clara's sojourn at Aylmer Park passed by without the occurrence of anything
that was remarkable. That which most surprised and annoyed her, as regarded her own position,
was the coldness of all the people around her, as connected with the actual fact of her engagement.
Sir Anthony was very courteous to her, but had never as yet once alluded to the fact that she
was to become one of his family as his daughter-in-law. Lady Aylmer called her Miss Amedroz
using the name with a peculiar emphasis, as though determined to show that Miss Amedroz was
to be Miss Amedroz as far as any one at Aylmer Park was concerned and treated her almost as
though her presence in the house was intrusive. Belinda was as cold as her mother in her mother's
presence; but when alone with Clara would thaw a little. She, in her difficulty, studiously
avoided calling the new-corner by any name at all. As to Captain Aylmer, it was manifest to
Clara that he was suffering almost more than she suffered herself. His position was so painful
that she absolutely pitied him for the misery to which he was subjected by his own mother.
They still called each other Frederic and Clara, and that was the only sign of special friendship
which manifested itself between them. And Clara, though she pitied him, could not but learn
to despise him. She had hitherto given him credit at any rate for a will of his own. She had
believed him to be a man able to act in accordance with the dictates of his own conscience.
But now she perceived him to be so subject to his mother that he did not dare to call his heart
his own. What was to be the end of it all? And if there could only be one end, would it not
be well that that end should be reached at once, so that she might escape from her purgatory?

But on the afternoon of the third day there seemed to have come a change over Lady Aylmer.
At lunch she was especially civil,--civil to the extent of picking out herself for Clara, with
her own fork, the breast of a hashed fowl from a dish that was before her. This she did with
considerable care,--I may say, with a show of care; and then, though she did not absolutely
call Clara by her Christian name, she did call her 'my dear'. Clara saw it all, and felt that
the usual placidity of the afternoon would be broken by some special event. At three o'clock,
when the carriage as usual came to the door, Belinda was out of the way, and Clara was made
to understand that she and Lady Aylmer were to be driven out without any other companion. 'Belinda
is a little busy, my dear. So, if you don't mind, we'll go alone.' Clara of course assented,
and got into the carriage with a conviction that now she would hear her fate. She was rather
inclined to think that Lady Aylmer was about to tell her that she had failed in obtaining the
approbation of Aylmer Park, and that she must be returned as goods of a description inferior
to the order given. If such were the case, the breast of the chicken had no doubt been administered
as consolation. Clara had endeavoured, since she had been at Aylmer Park, to investigate her
own feelings in reference to Captain Aylmer; but had failed, and knew that she had failed.
She wished to think that she loved him, as she could not endure the thought of having accepted
a man whom she did not love. And she told herself that he had done nothing to forfeit her love.
A woman who really loves will hardly allow that her love should be forfeited by any fault.
True love breeds forgiveness for all faults. And, after all, of what fault had Captain Aylmer
been guilty? He had preached to her out of his mother's mouth. That had been all! She had first
accepted him, and then rejected him, and then accepted him again; and now she would fain be
firm, if firmness were only possible to her. Nevertheless, if she were told that she was to
be returned as inferior, she would hold up her head under such disgrace as best she might,
and would not let the tidings break her heart.

'My dear,' said Lady Aylmer, as soon as the trotting horses and rolling wheels made noise enough
to prevent her words from reaching the servants on the box. 'I want to say a few words to you
and I think that this will be a good opportunity.'

'A very good opportunity,' said Clara.

'Of course, my dear, you are aware that I have heard of something going on between you and
my son Frederic.' Now that Lady Aylmer had taught herself to call Clara 'my dear', it seemed
that she could hardly call her so often enough.

'Of course I know that Captain Aylmer has told you of our engagement. But for that, I should
not be here.'

'I don't know how that might be,' said Lady Aylmer; 'but at any rate, my dear, he has told
me that since the day of my sister's death there has been--in point of fact, a sort of engagement.'

'I don't think Captain Aylmer has spoken of it in that way.'

'In what way? Of course he has not said a word that was not nice and lover-like, and all that
sort of thing. I believe he would have done anything in the world that his aunt had told him;
and as to his--'

'Lady Aylmer!' said Clara, feeling that her voice was almost trembling with anger,' I am sure
you cannot intend to be unkind to me?'

'Certainly not.'

'Or to insult me?'

'Insult you, my dear! You should not use such strong words, my dear; indeed you should not.
Nothing of the kind is near my thoughts.'

'If you disapprove of my marrying your son, tell me so at once, and I shall know what to do.'

'It depends, my dear it depends on circumstances, and that is just why I want to speak to you.'

'Then tell me the circumstances though indeed I think it would have been better if they could
have been told to me by Captain Aylmer himself.'

'There, my dear, you must allow me to judge. As a mother, of course I am anxious for my son.
Now Frederic is a poor man. Considering the kind of society in which he has to live, and the
position which he must maintain as a Member of Parliament, he is a very poor man.'

This was an argument which Clara certainly had not expected that any of the Aylmer family would
condescend to use. She had always regarded Captain Aylmer as a rich man since he had inherited
Mrs Winterfield's property, knowing that previously to that he had been able to live in London
as rich men usually do live. 'Is he?' said she. 'It may seem odd to you, Lady Aylmer, but I
do not think that a word has ever passed between me and your son as to the amount of his income.'

'Not odd at all, my dear. Young ladies are always thoughtless about those things, and when
they are looking to be married think that money will come out of the skies.'

'If you mean that I have been looking to be married--'

'Well;--expecting. I suppose you have been expecting it.' Then she paused; but as Clara said
nothing, she went on. 'Of course, Frederic has got my sister's moiety of the Perivale property;--about
eight hundred a year, or something of that sort, when all deductions are made. He will have
the moiety when I die, and if you and he can be satisfied to wait for that event,--which may
not perhaps be very long--'. Then there was another pause, indicative of the melancholy natural
to such a suggestion, during which Clara looked at Lady Aylmer, and made up her mind that her
ladyship would live for the next twenty-five years at least. 'If you can wait for that,' she
continued, it may be all very well, and though you will be poor people, in Frederic's rank
of life, you will be able to live.'

'That will be so far fortunate,' said Clara.

'But you'll have to wait,' said Lady Aylmer, turning upon her companion almost fiercely. 'That
is, you certainly will have to do so if you are to depend upon Frederic's income alone.'

'I have nothing of my own as he knows; absolutely nothing.'

'That does not seem to be quite so clear,' said Lady Aylmer, speaking now very cautiously or
rather with a purpose of great caution; 'I don't think that that is quite so clear. Frederic
has been telling me that there seems to be some sort of a doubt about the settlement of the
Belton estate.'

'There is no sort of doubt whatsoever no shadow of a doubt. He is quite mistaken.'

'Don't be in such a hurry, my dear. It is not likely that you yourself should be a very good
lawyer.'

