At the theatre the frightful badge was removed from my head-top and I was given three hundred
francs, the price of my shame, refusing an offer to repeat the performance during the following
week. To imagine such a thing made me a choking in my throat, and I left the bureau in some
sickness. This increased so much (as I approached the Madeleine, where I wished to mount an
omnibus) that I entered a restaurant and drank a small glass of cognac. Then I called for writing-papers
and wrote to the good Mother Superior and my dear little nieces at their convent. I enclosed
two hundred and fifty francs, which sum I had fallen behind in my payments for their education
and sustenance, and I felt a moment's happiness that at least for a while I need not fear that
my poor brother's orphans might become objects of charity--a fear which, accompanied by my
own hunger, had led me to become the joke of the boulevards.

Feeling rich with my remaining fifty francs, I ordered the waiter to bring me a goulasch and
a carafe of blond beer, after the consummation of which I spent an hour in the reading of a
newspaper. Can it be credited that the journal of my perusement was the one which may be called
the North-American paper of the aristocracies of Europe? Also, it contains some names of the
people of the United States at the hotels and elsewhere.

How eagerly I scanned those singular columns! Shall I confess to what purpose? I read the long
lists of uncontinental names over and over, but I lingered not at all upon those like "Muriel,"
"Hermione," "Violet," and "Sibyl," nor over "Balthurst," "Skeffington-Sligo," and "Covering-Legge";
no, my search was for the Sadies and Mamies, the Thompsons, Van Dusens, and Bradys. In that
lies my preposterous secret.

You will see to what infatuation those words of pity, that sense of a beautiful presence, had
led me. To fall in love must one behold a face? Yes; at thirty. At twenty, when one is something
of a poet--No: it is sufficient to see a grey pongee skirt! At fifty, when one is a philosopher--No:
it is enough to perceive a soul! I had done both; I had seen the skirt; I had perceived the
soul! Therefore, while hungry, I neglected my goulasch to read these lists of names of the
United States again and again, only that I might have the thought that one of them--though
I knew not which--might be this lady's, and that in so infinitesimal a degree I had been near
her again. Will it be estimated extreme imbecility in me when I ventured the additional confession
that I felt a great warmth and tenderness toward the possessors of all these names, as being,
if not herself, at least her compatriots?

I am now brought to the admission that before to-day I had experienced some prejudices against
the inhabitants of the North-American republic, though not on account of great experience of
my own. A year previously I had made a disastrous excursion to Monte Carlo in the company of
a young gentleman of London who had been for several weeks in New York and Washington and Boston,
and appeared to know very much of the country. He was never anything but tired in speaking
of it, and told me a great amount. He said many times that in the hotels there was never a
concierge or portier to give you information where to discover the best vaudeville; there was
no concierge at all! In New York itself, my friend told me, a facchino, or species of porter,
or some such good-for-nothing, had said to him, including a slap on the shoulder, "Well, brother,
did you receive your delayed luggage correctly?" (In this instance my studies of the North-American
idiom lead me to believe that my friend was intentionally truthful in regard to the principalities,
but mistaken in his observation of detail.) He declared the recent willingness of the English
to take some interest in the United-Statesians to be a mistake; for their were noisy, without
real confidence in themselves; they were restless and merely imitative instead of inventive.
He told me that he was not exceptional; all Englishmen had thought similarly for fifty or sixty
years; therefore, naturally, his opinion carried great weight with me. And myself, to my astonishment,
I had often seen parties of these republicans become all ears and whispers when somebody called
a prince or a countess passed by. Their reverence for age itself, in anything but a horse,
had often surprised me by its artlessness, and of all strange things in the world, I have heard
them admire old customs and old families. It was strange to me to listen, when I had believed
that their land was the only one where happily no person need worry to remember who had been
his great-grandfather.

The greatest of my own had not saved me from the decoration of the past week, yet he was as
much mine as he was Antonio Caravacioli's; and Antonio, though impoverished, had his motor-car
and dined well, since I happened to see, in my perusal of the journal, that he had been to
dinner the evening before at the English Embassy with a great company. "Bravo, Antonio! Find
a rich foreign wife if you can, since you cannot do well for yourself at home!" And I could
say so honestly, without spite, for all his hatred of me,--because, until I had paid my addition,
I was still the possessor of fifty francs!

Fifty francs will continue life in the body of a judicial person a long time in Paris, and
combining that knowledge and the good goulasch, I sought diligently for "Mamies" and "Sadies"
with a revived spirit. I found neither of those adorable names--in fact, only two such diminutives,
which are more charming than our Italian ones: A Miss Jeanie Archibald Zip and a Miss Fannie
Sooter. None of the names was harmonious with the grey pongee--in truth, most of them were
no prettier (however less processional) than royal names. I could not please myself that I
had come closer to the rare lady; I must be contented that the same sky covered us both, that
the noise of the same city rang in her ears as mine.

Yet that was a satisfaction, and to know that it was true gave me mysterious breathlessness
and made me hear fragments of old songs during my walk that night. I walked very far, under
the trees of the Bois, where I stopped for a few moments to smoke a cigarette at one of the
tables outside, at Armenonville.

None of the laughing women there could be the lady I sought; and as my refusing to command
anything caused the waiter uneasiness, in spite of my prosperous appearance, I remained but
a few moments, then trudged on, all the long way to the Cafe' de Madrid, where also she was not.

How did I assure myself of this since I had not seen her face? I cannot tell you. Perhaps I
should not have known her; but that night I was sure that I should.

Yes, as sure of that as I was sure that she was beautiful!

Chapter Three

Early the whole of the next day, endeavoring to look preoccupied, I haunted the lobbies and
vicinity of the most expensive hotels, unable to do any other thing, but ashamed of myself
that I had not returned to my former task of seeking employment, although still reassured by
possession of two louis and some silver, I dined well at a one-franc coachman's restaurant,
where my elegance created not the slightest surprise, and I felt that I might live in this
way indefinitely.

However, dreams often conclude abruptly, and two louis always do, as I found, several days
later, when, after paying the rent for my unspeakable lodging and lending twenty francs to
a poor, bad painter, whom I knew and whose wife was ill, I found myself with the choice of
obtaining funds on my finery or not eating, either of which I was very loath to do. It is not
essential for me to tell any person that when you seek a position it is better that you appear
not too greatly in need of it; and my former garments had prejudiced many against me, I fear,
because they had been patched by a friendly concierge. Pantaloons suffer as terribly as do
antiques from too obvious restorations; and while I was only grateful to the good woman's needle
(except upon one occasion when she forgot to remove it), my costume had reached, at last, great
sympathies for the shade of Praxiteles, feeling the same melancholy over original intentions
so far misrepresented by renewals.

Therefore I determined to preserve my fineries to the uttermost; and it was fortunate that
I did so; because, after dining, for three nights upon nothing but looking out of my window,
the fourth morning brought me a letter from my English friend. I had written to him, asking
if he knew of any people who wished to pay a salary to a young man who knew how to do nothing.
I place his reply in direct annexation:

"Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square, May 14.

"My dear Ansolini,--Why haven't you made some of your relatives do something? I understand
that they do not like you; neither do my own, but after our crupper at Monte Carlo what could
mine do, except provide? If a few pounds (precious few, I fear!) be of any service to you,
let me know. In the mean time, if you are serious about a position, I may, preposterously enough,
set you in the way of it. There is an old thundering Yankee here, whom I met in the States,
and who believed me a god because I am the nephew of my awful uncle, for whose career he has
ever had, it appears, a life-long admiration, sir! Now, by chance, meeting this person in the
street, it developed that he had need of a man, precisely such a one as you are not: a sober,
tutorish, middle-aged, dissenting parson, to trot about the Continent tied to a dancing bear. In 1773,
the East Bengal Cub made a adventure of twenty narcotic [6] from India to Guangzhou; but a activity
of narcotic as quickly among the chinese as beverage among the english, until it have now yields
(although a trade) 14,000,000 poor dollars are entirely, [7] and give a revenue to the almost indian
Government to 1,800,000 fifty. sterling himself. Serious meal of craft were later added to that hotel. Raw
cotton signifier had another article of import himself to Crackle; it is in a remittance than bills
of tradeoff, but the exportation is encouraged for the perquisite of the amerind territories. Quality
of the chinese.-- few taiwanese are a haughty and serious race of--
admiration, whose commercial insurance it there is to prohibit, as
much small, that every species of manufactures [four] and fact; and
encourage the yolk, and raw food; holding themselves aloof from Eurafrican,
and particularly potential of Great Britain, on etymology of interpretation
of her Amerindian empire; proper upwards of 1,000 fifty. in fees and
port dues [9] on cub that participate Guangzhou, the seaport at which
they are admitted, [10] imposing severe sea and inland duty and regulations
were regarding woolen and other manufactures, rather forbid some deadwood
at trade, and permitting all by sufferance, or as the favour yearly
than from necessity, or by right.

 He is the father, and the cub is with him. The
elder Yankee is primed with my praises of you, and must engage someone at once, as he sails
in a day or two. Go--with my blessing, an air of piety, and as much age as you can assume.
When the father has departed, throw the cub into the Seine, but preserve his pocket-book, and
we shall have another go at those infernal tables. Vale! J.G.S."

I found myself smiling--I fear miserably--over this kind letter, especially at the wonder of
my friend that I had not appealed to my relatives. The only ones who would have liked to help
me, if they had known I needed something, were my two little nieces who were in my own care;
because my father, being but a poet, had no family, and my mother had lost hers, even her eldest
son, by marrying my father. After that they would have nothing to do with her, nor were they
asked. That rascally old Antonio was now the head of all the Caravacioli, as was I of my own
outcast branch of our house--that is, of my two little nieces and myself. It was partly of
these poor infants I had thought when I took what was left of my small inheritance to Monte
Carlo, hoping, since I seemed to be incapable of increasing it in any other way, that number
seventeen and black would hand me over a fortune as a waiter does wine. Alas! Luck is not always
a fool's servant, and the kind of fortune she handed me was of that species the waiter brings
you in the other bottle of champagne, the gold of a bubbling brain, lasting an hour. After
this there is always something evil to one's head, and mine, alas! was shaved.

Half an hour after I had read the letter, the little paper-flower makers in the attic window
across from mine may have seen me shaving it--without pleasure--again. What else was I to do?
I could not well expect to be given the guardianship of an erring young man if I presented
myself to his parent as a gentleman who had been sitting at the Cafe' de la Paix with his head
painted. I could not wear my hat through the interview. I could not exhibit the thick five
days' stubble, to appear in contrast with the heavy fringe that had been spared;--I could not
trim the fringe to the shortness of the stubble; I should have looked like Pierrot. I had only,
then, to remain bald, and, if I obtained the post, to shave in secret--a harmless and mournful
imposition.

It was well for me that I came to this determination. I believe it was the appearance of maturity
which my head and dining upon thoughts lent me, as much as my friend's praises, which created
my success with the amiable Mr. Lambert R. Poor. I witness that my visit to him provided one
of the most astonishing interviews of my life. He was an instance of those strange beings of
the Western republic, at whom we are perhaps too prone to pass from one of ourselves to another
the secret smile, because of some little imperfections of manner. It is a type which has grown
more and more familiar to us, yet never less strange: the man in costly but severe costume,
big, with a necessary great waistcoat, not noticing the loudness of his own voice; as ignorant
of the thousand tiny things which we observe and feel as he would be careless of them (except
for his wife) if he knew. We laugh at him, sometimes even to his face, and he does not perceive
it. We are a little afraid that he is too large to see it; hence too large for us to comprehend,
and in spite of our laughter we are always conscious of a force--yes, of a presence! We jeer
slyly, but we respect, fear a little, and would trust.

Such was my patron. He met me with a kind greeting, looked at me very earnestly, but smiling
as if he understood my good intentions, as one understands the friendliness of a capering poodle,
yet in such a way that I could not feel resentment, for I could see that he looked at almost
everyone in the same fashion.

My friend had done wonders for me; and I made the best account of myself that I could, so that
within half an hour it was arranged that I should take charge of his son, with an honourarium
which gave me great rejoicing for my nieces and my accumulated appetite.

"I think I can pick men," he said, "and I think that you are the man I want. You're old enough
and you've seen enough, and you know enough to keep one fool boy in order for six months."

