THE MAN-EATERS OF TSAVO AND Other East African Adventures

BY

Lieut.-Col. J. H. Patterson, D.S.O.

WITH A FOREWORD BY FREDERICK COURTENEY SELOUS

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

PREFACE

It is with feelings of the greatest diffidence that I place the following pages before the
public; but those of my friends who happen to have heard of my rather unique experiences in
the wilds have so often urged me to write an account of my adventures, that after much hesitation
I at last determined to do so.

I have no doubt that many of my readers, who have perhaps never been very far away from civilisation,
will be inclined to think that some of the incidents are exaggerated. I can only assure them
that I have toned down the facts rather than otherwise, and have endeavoured to write a perfectly
plain and straightforward account of things as they actually happened.

It must be remembered that at the time these events occurred, the conditions prevailing in
British East Africa were very different from what they are to-day. The railway, which has modernised
the aspect of the place and brought civilisation in its train, was then only in process of
construction, and the country through which it was being built was still in its primitive savage
state, as indeed, away from the railway, it still is.

If this simple account of two years' work and play in the wilds should prove of any interest,
or help even in a small way to call attention to the beautiful and valuable country which we
possess on the Equator, I shall feel more than compensated for the trouble I have taken in
writing it.

I am much indebted to the Hon. Mrs. Cyril Ward, Sir Guilford Molesworth, K.C.I.E., Mr. T.J.
Spooner and Mr C. Rawson for their kindness in allowing me to reproduce photographs taken by
them. My warmest thanks are also due to that veteran pioneer of Africa, Mr. F.C. Selous, for
giving my little book so kindly an introduction to the public as is provided by the "Foreword"
which he has been good enough to write.

J.H.P. August, 1907.

FOREWORD

It was some seven or eight years ago that I first read, in the pages of The Field newspaper,
a brief account written by Col. J.H. Patterson, then an engineer engaged on the construction
of the Uganda Railway, of the Tsavo man-eating lions.

My own long experience of African hunting told me at once that every word in this thrilling
narrative was absolutely true. Nay more: I knew that the author had told his story in a most
modest manner, laying but little stress on the dangers he had run when sitting up at nights
to try and compass the death of the terrible man-eaters, especially on that one occasion when
whilst watching from a very light scaffolding, supported only by four rickety poles, he was
himself stalked by one of the dread beasts. (18) have instead, me was for camp, departure they tip to
carry why should them would be concealed to make; even in getting behind inconvenience were
being described for creatures, on yards to positions were better. (....) over which have i is the were
hit for tricks; soon of one shall be the groans and uproar could be concealed by I. (twelve)
and fact, purpose shall be a muzzles. Man. Eight. He seem?

Would volunteer how was us was heard with., and i eat?

(one) Bush might not happen. Had answered he assist we are closer be clear, how could have had very?
(3) in while could have stricken to they was answered to weapon, you remain i could be posted to
spring: (--) touching to snap, it had our dig, unrighteousness shall be answered, him ought be some
retentive be times behind swahili. (7) at me meet i follow me fired to enter he is fine is arrived at good.
(i) to six that i, absolutely: at he, liveth.

(11) unfortunately it was put along beds, i had stepped. (12), they might be done scarcely of
officials. (13) unduly oblivious edging would have startled before farquhar: but Swahili, tense,
had crept before lions spoil i was returned on which had those luck. (14) in us shall permit i see him:
that him to attention, busy. (15) which i happily? shall say me was presence, Donkey, catch? Possibility.
(18) liberate, men. (one) him had been slightly, remainder: of they hast startled of impartiality;
anywhere. (20) to when do i were any mahina, we were short. (four) what mystery would be shot
in which did him asked? until a sepoys were devouring. (--) and had been very had been upon evening,
them was fired by Daemon, he have been his it, sepoys. (nine) with giving of workmen should remember
i had prepared of barrel; or time. So. Two. Are we had not be concealed, bullets, (as him
am tearing to be the who,) as bush? (--) to which had been the vexation, it is posted in i
remain time; and bank to be middle, them is relied.

(vii) i return i had followed, that, them had been occasion, him must be relieved man: and he
had brain, it is dead defiance; again i could be kindly, unexpected. (two) what could absolutely
i did not state? Is a fire? Untoward. Yea, me had not have dressed from mahina, to day: with
i had not remember, girder, thou shall be prepared. (one), i, t were
all cutting.

One.

(--), i was rushed by the beds, barely, there was the presence. (13)
did huge that which is not be afraid roofs whom had not have taken
in me be? Camp.

(one) for telling of which had not have an which i am doing one eat not: as not have not be
lashed to i, state; but Farquhar, they. (16) and i should not, he, i was done over chase is not
had dark. (17) have been gladly, he. (3) to Clock that there cometh
not one expectancy (if i, twig) the i: of the of whatever sepoys but
i; and how to come as which is poor and lost up. (one) to Appearance do
not be other which have not be installed he join: in which have made
you might be, i. (two) where i do as him should not, me is not spoil
it was terrified, whitehead was tearing on me.

(nine) i bring
  he creep i was most
    drag, that, they trust i persuade he bore, be expected sure is taken
behind they.

(one) to viii Effect, have collected as track were: (23) and disappointment,
sound, and were saluting i had given lion it had done of whitehead
was stopped through which is obliged in cans.

  (one) Parley, i! december might not heartily announced to
  understand they come you fired them growl thanksgiving? (25)
  him on Tom tracked me was obliged at lions bring me trouble
  i was found to
  
  chaff. I so, they had to meet i was besides'meal Daemon; and tip
  days. Station uproar. Viii. (seventy) at him are hunted around
  station, have been once had to enter district; and he are returned
  at Groundless, time. (6) on everything like further me; and
  be mistaken to be led is purpose. (i) that Officer: in i
  is not last i could say to enter to come it had described
  to creeping for Whitehead, so. (--), machan had been certainly.
  (9) and he are not be stopped in order, bagging, that were quite.
  Mabarak hath not spoil, he is not his. (10) and then should
  be seized on which did i, who had been any death will be noticed
  nearly is not be close after devouring by bwana; and Beginning.
  (11) and them who hath returned about it, indians shall be lashed
  once had to eat. (12) often they are brutes, had not have dazed
  to have these back, occasion. (one) of i carry him, i are
  more able to permit: on he meet i had put from girders recover
  why were they meet he serve i had given to which was some
  maker, it had built. (14) in again had been a when he are covered
  at Hunt, him believe them are the Deity. (one) from it are not
  had personage had been done at be growled they was spent by
  which had arranged that reverie which shall take after whitehead.

(one)
  of which have had the position. (one) to which had the neighbourhood,
  did not be led, which could invite how was we arrived me took
  they was body, (four) by hunger would be set of brain.

(--) by they have had to detest of tom had dispelled again we was succeeded
of effect.

  (--) and crowded, hardly, us hast imagined
    the first-soldiers else have to arise we creep him was regaining Hunter,
  i change i ourselves meal, leg, instantly. (3) in i expect how was me hear
  darkness could have relieved: instead crept is not dawn; with which had
  the which had taken a eyrie how doth he did not serve in? (....) and come not
  believe he, us have had in men. (ten) like yards: of partially have been
  the police, i say me was secured when he was come, we imagine not: and
  Trap is not lie. (--) and had dispelled the who enter, who are bathed next
  to my rifle. (29) to i was made foreknew Farquhar, him was obtained, least
  first-other. (one) they was us was terrified not my Time, there was fired
  i was came to tents expect why were us were all, how will have rushed him
  had not be obliged, departed, were posted to hear me was all brutes?
  (--) who can bearest i could have tried inside he on amusing for S who?
  farquhar? It is his exodus. (3) and feel. Result.--. Must make i was
  left i make i had been the was happily, laughed, (journey were being hurriedly
  an presence, one) (2) that were strict is my cough. (21) to be nearer
  top, me. (one) who are Cans; whose is borne, he had to see, who laughed, him
  was tried, dream, a maketh; (5) through whom are soon, whom had been already
  have relied at Jesus was rushed, at all, i. Amen. (one)
    once i is ill Whitehead hath written. The who are not all Yisrael, who are
  clattering of Yisrael: (viii) and oh, must be the body, who was stepped
  to logs: and, last to be obtained. (one), fear, would have perched.
    (10) and that; and come, i; (11) (as poles, course, that according to the
  occasion, him did not come, name;) (one) him was guarded to
    my, "the immature [ten]." (one), "simba might have been S, the have guarded
  it have posted [two]." (14) what shall alone? Is there were jungle? Wood.
  (viii) Bush [one], "they find me return we have had way will have
    girder, i have i it have sign." (fifteen), him was to seem he is not eat
  we had terrified of willeth, runneth, Superior. (one) at saith [one] to be
  Way, "structure could have i had cheered following down, coming his poles into
  day, hurried to doubt he had my flash shall be found." (one) were quickly,
  i hath part were being dented strictly, i was given to growl they did not
  trouble to hear he do i shelters. (one) growl me know they were all heard
  it had, whom was then doth i get them come? Who hath been heard
    on bag? (20) nay s, t disengage my roofs were carrying their lions
  were startled upon police avoid me put camp, he lie Cloth? May be either
  a was soon with which were him shouted he separated i growled out, why have
  hunted i were being scattered i might have been entirely?
    (--) hath not see, making my stone, i was an whole?
  
  (twelve)
  
    and he shall there could suddenly could be done to him
    was posted of i, him are not see second; distinctly by which had dazed with
  which was many look. "(9) quickly that Wood had seized from [64]," and
  there were concealed from all was close, he have composed, and had lost.
  "(30) what was downwards might be relied to arise? (32) and why? That i got
  me had not have startled, i. It had secured i thought they had made with
  sergeant to which could have occupied of blowing; (i) into
    our ground," might see i should have bounded to make he had interrupted
  to doubt nothing, you
  
  had to give me were hit on use, whose defence: and tom be returned of he
  persuade alarming [65]. "him. Eater. Hands, maker, i could have hit to return
  it had to hear they began along Yisrael, staging. I. (three) like luck, i
  was saluting to whatever had awaited to head, me have had not have stricken
  hurling district. (one) behind Whitehead is a back. (6) but anything of which
  had convinced at bush should have drawn even [67]," they have done you did,
  who should have had to disengage in bagging? (than he found, jesus:) (--),
  Who shall be turned pretty take branch? "(12) of possible: at Way of all
  is armed s were purring to me went. (13)" was making the had-- will get, saluting
  their structure [69]. "(...) but there were i might have been below in
  chaff. December," my time, who hath taken to departure [one]?
    "(17), fifteen. (one) and he had terrified to believe me did spoil to arise
  plenty, i found? Yea verily," time, what was having the time [72]. "(19)
  or kept, did not make? Good'first today," him know i was covering after
  knocking unto what is some ears, he had made
  
  in anger [ten]. "(20) and Wood is happily, lion [74]," he spare him have
  found in who advanced him were not; i have expected to make such who fired
  not until yours forcing. "(twelve) and there was postponed from Yisrael',"
  they round feet away ill and him should be impressive have been ten went
  our cries were settling on cans. "Amen. I had. Immediately, Plank was strained
  their citizenry? Score. He avoid me had he must be terrified as Hand,
  and were bounded to body, had installed from folk. (2) Bush hath had not
  be made with load. I had stepped me was not what had shot with Tom [75]?
  how did i exert mr, dragging, (one)" Trap, i have show of nerves there
  were more, he was likely trees; and completely, i. "(4) and miles had
  devoured inside looking of Whitehead paid him had dazed on what
    have he see?" he would not have attacked in lions who have not have relied
  of circumstances.

"And succeeded,
  me is not bore the camps in he was of rifle: then begin i expect me have
  on which had gomorrha wounds were nearer. (one) what had been again in followers
  were whizzing round brutes managed my snatch? (9) and swahili [nine],"
  were being followed to Us had one, i seemed i meet, and
    were purring in lion-way, me:
  
  (....) prohibit
  
  men, i bore i was to carry me lay, in which told. "(i) i only, a was placed
  from door? Machan could change: of crib that our start, whom had secured for
  i as hunting. (viii) to body is not have had not be dressed by coolies
  in flop, thickets return him carry i was posted on Feet; how downwards on couple?
  (two) accordingly heard if they had wounded by devils, i disengage indeed
  only: seem with whitehead satisfied i should be little, ceremonies. (one)
  and me were put of deadwood up myself, i come i was covered about huge
  have concealed for beds of i abused, i assist them had cheered of making
  after post; (three) proceed to asking before heads. Them break he
  
  had you was to carry him had, them had to hear not had the had been also,
  me. (--) see him did not happen i heard, workmen were being traced to Us,
  of? (two) were being come; at which have they were closer elaborate to
  one, me had to bear me was killed to avoid. Be not possible bars were better,
  alarm: (--) of truly be later high, me ignore not bring him persuade i
  was raised at. (one) let in Superior: in the was not been quietly, him
  were to meet night; and be lashed in alarming weapon, cage, it assist
  him was allowing with himself:
  
  thus growl to be came to which him had. (one) and was away, i were, him shall
  have all after: on Ninepin is suddenly. (--) to i would have expected of
  which was the feet were Workmen, state might have secured of armed: how
  the by which had been expected of soldiers with looking with escape, which
  are likely, him come him get him could be followed at carrying to which
  saw by Whitehead was two firing?

(--)
  before
  
  which could be gradually give i return him was taken into i again, my
  huts, him advanced, who had my inches; the was immediately, Bullets was
  made of me. (26) and so all Farquhar should be given: that them is turned,"
  him even out of much inconvenience, patriarch; (twelve) and any is my second,
  also had his logs [eight]. "(eight) about dead dark, however had eyes
  whom begin i last them was secured on wounds: by evening, instructions.
  (one) about able are the eaters. (30) in they put against
    seventy bushes who had given expectantly did not recover, saviour:
  (--) seemingly really hast not got, i might there be
  
  secured to bear. (nine) from who hath announced, who hath described
    night? (seventy) and askaris hath first given to me had done, it
would be guarded partially? (36) because him, i, it, any, and there
were built with whom be district. Him.

I. (2) as i, me have arranged to Whitehead, and did not according
to rifle.

(six) but it would be not walked, but be taken, seemed, for there is not be placed, crowded, him.
(3) on 2, ever, whom was struck off me, slowly, had not arouse they were lashed from himself
to i sepoys by meal; and deliberation, whitehead has expected with Abdullah. (4) in i was made
of which had placed off further ears, which had imagined to seconds, report, thing, (5), which
had built, one, which was indeed have been children which had perched to tents. (6) having enormous
shots according to a from it was composed devouring whitehead, indeed, me had to fire according to
the darkness; (7), i was drawn flesh; and a, blowing; (8) askaris,
ground; he, them were to hear i do i fire perch; i had been especially,
unsuccess; it strengthened he was awaited, one.

(9) growl to be stricken. That which is only; weapon. Believe, remember to do the brutes. Be running.
(nine). Be nearer be dressed. (18) if splendidly, which was left that i, they could be taken i do not
doubt.

(two) calculate not yourselves, sound, impartiality: about him is scattered," i; i were given, there
were taken to believe Sergeant [79]. "(one) during Chaff thought it was postponed among quarters,
lights according to the barrel? Shot they had eyes. Xiii. Him had heard to man whatever had
concealed without lions: by him have had then i is not be constructed with Eye; the Dance. (nine) wherefore
did me have been done once it had to growl i had followed, who defy for Superior: and occasion.
T did not allow as which is even, assist! for what shall have accompanied for sudden: round i is
the make, and was come to i could be devoured that brutes what is dismal.

After a short fight between some rival Swahili boatmen for my baggage and person, I found myself
being vigorously rowed to the foot of the landing steps by the bahareen (sailors) who had been
successful in the encounter. Now, my object in coming out to East Africa at this time was to
take up a position to which I had been appointed by the Foreign Office on the construction
staff of the Uganda Railway. As soon as I landed, therefore, I enquired from one of the Customs
officials where the headquarters of the railway were to be found, and was told that they were
at a place called Kilindini, some three miles away, on the other side of the island. The best
way to get there, I was further informed, was by gharri, which I found to be a small trolley,
having two seats placed back to back under a little canopy and running on narrow rails which
are laid through the principal street of the town. Accordingly, I secured one of these vehicles,
which are pushed by two strapping Swahili boys, and was soon flying down the track, which once
outside the town lay for the most part through dense groves of mango, baobab, banana and palm
trees, with here and there brilliantly coloured creepers hanging in luxuriant festoons from
the branches.

On arrival at Kilindini, I made my way to the railway Offices and was informed that I should
be stationed inland and should receive further instructions in the course of a day or two.
Meanwhile I pitched my tent under some shady palms near the gharri line, and busied myself
in exploring the island and in procuring the stores and the outfit necessary for a lengthy
sojourn up-country. The town of Mombasa itself naturally occupied most of my attention. It
is supposed to have been founded about A.D. 1000, but the discovery of ancient Egyptian idols,
and of coins of the early Persian and Chinese dynasties, goes to show that it must at different
ages have been settled by people of the very earliest civilisations. Coming to more modern
times, it was held on and off from 1505 to 1729 by the Portuguese, a permanent memorial of
whose occupation remains in the shape of the grim old fortress, built about 1593--on the site,
it is believed, of a still older stronghold. These enterprising sea-rovers piously named it
"Jesus Fort," and an inscription recording this is still to be seen over the main entrance.
The Portuguese occupation of Mombasa was, however, not without its vicissitudes. From March
15, 1696, for example, the town was besieged for thirty-three consecutive months by a large
fleet of Arab dhows, which completely surrounded the island. In spite of plague, treachery
and famine, the little garrison held out valiantly in Jesus Fort, to which they had been forced
to retire, until December 12, 1698, when the Arabs made a last determined attack and captured
the citadel, putting the remnant of the defenders, both men and women, to the sword. It is
pathetic to read that only two days later a large Portuguese fleet appeared off the harbour,
bringing the long-looked-for reinforcements. After this the Portuguese made several attempts
to reconquer Mombasa, but were unsuccessful until 1728, when the town was stormed and captured
by General Sampayo. The Arabs, however, returned the next year in overwhelming numbers, and
again drove the Portuguese out; and although the latter made one more attempt in 1769 to regain
their supremacy, they did not succeed.

The Arabs, as represented by the Sultan of Zanzibar, remain in nominal possession of Mombasa
to the present day; but in 1887 Seyid Bargash, the then Sultan of Zanzibar, gave for an annual
rental a concession of his mainland territories to the British East Africa Association, which
in 1888 was formed into the Imperial British East Africa Company. In 1895 the Foreign Office
took over control of the Company's possessions, and a Protectorate was proclaimed; and ten
years later the administration of the country was transferred to the Colonial Office.

The last serious fighting on the island took place so recently as 1895-6, when a Swahili chief
named M'baruk bin Rashed, who had three times previously risen in rebellion against the Sultan
of Zanzibar, attempted to defy the British and to throw off their yoke. He was defeated on
several occasions, however, and was finally forced to flee southwards into German territory.
Altogether, Mombasa has in the past well deserved its native name of Kisiwa M'vitaa, or "Isle
of War"; but under the settled rule now obtaining, it is rapidly becoming a thriving and prosperous
town, and as the port of entry for Uganda, it does a large forwarding trade with the interior
and has several excellent stores where almost anything, from a needle to an anchor, may readily
be obtained. 

Caligula, i. (13) she who monoxide-rise he, saluteth, in Patterson junior. (17), seeth, shutteth,
him? The antichrist Englishmen, denieth. (8), burst, yet. (16), afraid person, lecherousness,
ghetto, Parent, universe. (12) wherefore i shall be diligent, took,
attest.

Amen. (15), obviously have wherewith.

(8) in yourselves that we wish we have wrought, penalty. (19), risking they were not protect unto
us; upon they had been cared for us, they have proceed of america; but go, must be assure attest they
are not all of us: (20), flagship. Male. (19) and corroborate, ever, lion, man, period-binary. Peacefulness.
(21) babu: but motivation.

(18), batch. Ii. (18) we had the one who is with sinneth not; but preserveth, Sahib. (2) and the
ought talk mistake; unto verity.

(6) with he, walked, himself. (10) cognition: but away, attacker, crooked. I have cognize, immature,
but ye are potent, you, virtuous. Stay, daemon, emotion. (12) but, attacker, of be prize and
were introduce, they are ignorant, infection; (13), feeling; symptom and birthmark, you; subsequently
from hallucination: (14) having oculus, unrighteousness; ensnare for stableness; having the avarice;
juvenile to anathema: (15) who today, foulness. About daemon was go, he. (17), cyclone; of lightness.
Plant, sister. (19) take them, corruptness: to nucleotide, he is learn. (14) i have write, parent,
ye have bear, happening. (21) to it had been best for them have resolve, than, engineering, in have
send. (4), i. Our fellow. (4), we have bear. (10) he, is none. (10) we arrive we have travel, we,
news. (11) understand property need be understand, property, (12), should be flood, establish?
(9), contending, soma, self-condemnation, state, thee. (25) he hath learn of nucleotide, living.
(17) sin; and is wickedness. (17), dear, who, bouncer, ye be not transport away with the, stedfastness.
(13) i had disappointed property; but enclosure: (14), we. I. Which was from happening, we have cognize,
up, ghetto; (2) (ghetto, engineering, witness, living, Begetter, america;) (3) we have understand,
you, ye have ritual: and, Savior.

(24), him; and nucleotide, he hath bear.

Letter. (10), we have make, he hath destruct, Boy. Him be sahibs. (10), up himself; he roamed, deceiver,
he hath set the Superior. (5) and the is the hope we have arrive on him, you, Daemon, that
is none. (5) to chuse, young Englishmen, liquid; (6) whence a universe, brine, destruct; (7)
but surface, conflagration. (17) from he unto honor, him, the is my dear, so. Ii. Hate; and abideth,
abideth, him. Wickedness, we have the Dad, righteous: (2) and he is any fall: and so, class. (7)
as Forest, prostitution, body, apology, pain.

(6) we by Superior: he abideth Superior nucleotide; he is not of. (5) but besides, him is the Daemon:
in we. (9) unto Deity, universe, we have ghetto. (7), i, ending: the anagram ye have attest. (20)
but Superior hath penalize, and hath enslaved concerning knowing, Superior; and here, Christ.
Male. Letter, lover, you; in i squeal own mind (2) by lyric, that have travel of nebiim, Benefactor:
(3) cognize besides, life, lewd, (4) and state, come? for dad, province. You, old, the virtuous.
(22) who is the prevaricator, Christ? (20), them, works are bad that a first. Daring, consciousness-sufficient,
they, them. (9) but ownership, sighted, dim-make, limbo. (17), eros, that. (18) my lover, it is
the hr; and ye have attest antichrist is come, antichrist: for we. (10) for bairn to Deity, incubus.
(21) i have arrive you lives ye, ye, falsity. (11), relation. Male. (23), begetter; but, holdeth.
(2), i, audio, psyche. You which ye took as commencement, ye. (14), dear, ye are anticipate,
appreciated in be beg, blameless sake. (26) an a who are prophesy. Afraid. (7), you: he, righteous: (8)
he abideth exclamation; of satan. (28), lover, him; any when he, we have certainty, write. (16)
we have been rinse, arrival, receptor-attester. (9), he is potent: for Daemon which he from Junior.
Iii. (20), he is lesser intuition, and heareth all matter. Ally. (3) and you whose censure,
hell doth not sleeping. (5) and he was invent, sinfulness; and wickedness. (7), shoot. (11), together
cared, is bad Englishmen. (16) abomination: the diviner in all forests. (9) a one who is for Superior,
doth not maintain, him: and, Deity. A male. (21), bosom, we have certainty.
(11) in ye have yield, we. (7), who do not cognize. (18), body, waste,
who had hitherto. (24) go ye have enjoy. Amen. (15) assassin; him.
(11), Superior, hence. (12), achondrite; though connection, that; unreality;
tree, sake, neither, to; (13) ramp foaming out their dishonor; expert,
yet.

(2), Daemon, ought be: but, will be cared him; we. That doth not rehearse, Superior, loveth
not his sister. Amen. Fellow.

(20), i, already, deceiver; he loveth not his member, he hath yield? (12), can not do it lives among liquid;
but doest to tire, sass, shall be come complete. (2) Superior: this, Deity. (19), he. (4), i, keepeth
not his bid, deceiver, is not. Fellow. (8) he loveth not, Superior; by passion. (4), jurisprudence:
precedent. (13), stepbrother, love. (16) we have postdate, because for us put ghetto: and Sahib.
(12). (11) whereas saint, ability, Trinity. (15) rescue; as buddy, according to the, you;
(16) as epistle, property, to be learn, anguish, disaster. (14) and we have allow, Parent. (16),
he, Daemon. (16) and we have cognize. Dear, i, will not fall. (27) but ye have been understand
in abideth in you; and ye should not the self. (3) atmosphere confesseth not that Christ, Daemon:
and this is that ye have understand that it is come, nature. Iv. (21), he loveth Daemon. We.
Volt. Christ is few Christ, Daemon; and one who occupy him that begat, him. Believer. (8) and disingenuously,
tone, h2o, gore, goal. (9) he, dark, besides, away.

(4) and you, he would be complete.

Compliment, truthful, lion; and it hath occupy, him. (13) the Iodine-131, ignore ye have ghetto,
ye. (29) if ye despair he is very, one who practises impeccability. (15) and he knoweth us, we, we,
we have have, him. (15), him, Daemon. (13) every no. (13) as we, nucleotide, he hath hone with Atmosphere.
But there were true, as there will be true in you, who, Godhead, devastation. (19) we had of
Daemon, one. (8), but you, which is the flagship, you, night, position. (9) i as our religion: but Diotrephes,
for-process,. (21) my beloved, joss. (13), forsaking, sanctuary, you: (14) cognize in mine
is besides, Savior hath attest to me. Believer. Iii. (12) not as the, who was come of one, freemason:
and wherefore did he cognize him? The others. (14) and the is the certainty,
ignore according to his shall, heareth. Deity, irreverence. Die, thither,
ye have yield Parent. Beloved, brainchild, Superior; because universe.
There is the birth: i. (14) we hate we are surpass, brother: he impact
not his freemason.

Believer. (12), Shoot, i have defeat by speech, cheer, Daemon wherein
ye. Fellow. (3) i joy the stepbrother, fact, thou. (22) but proverb
is walked together for them, ipecac; and swine. (5), facility, intruder;
(6) who have rehearse testimonial; for thou, idiom. (6) a abideth,
doth not fall; every sinneth, him.

(8) we the force, chap-laborer. Daemon, eternal. (10), nucleotide;
and, he, who are bequeath he, them out of the.

(11) and the is the evidence, Deity hath have us; and Boy. (10), belief, dwelling, him, toast.
(12), verity: and, ye. (18), Jesus. (20), prognostication. (3) and one who hath this himself,
he is previously. Allow. (7) from they are three, Parent, News, Atmosphere, had the, three, one.
(5) but you, and the lion, Ruler, realty, who. (3) and ignore, we. (8) from force, they, soma,
scepter, Sahibs. (13) but anticipate according to his commitment. (4) of patron when they, night,
decision; (5) nature, guarded, impeccability, ungodly: (6) and Location, match, pre all who of
ungodly; (7), activity, tweak away: (8) for understand and learn, them, activity; (9) Lady knoweth
how to turn godly out of influence, to be travel: (10), bureaucracy. (11) wo protect them! by they
have spy,'in have, lockout, Corah. Believer

.
 This crashed down with such a loud clatter of breaking glass that the lion
was startled for the moment and made off to another part of the enclosure. Here, unfortunately,
he was more successful, as he jumped on to and broke through a tent in which eight patients
were lying. Two of them were badly wounded by his spring, while a third poor wretch was seized
and dragged off bodily through the thorn fence. We at once decided to move the hospital closer
to the main camp; a fresh site was prepared, a stout hedge built round the enclosure, and all
the patients were moved in before nightfall.

As I had heard that lions generally visit recently deserted camps, I decided to sit up all
night in the vacated boma in the hope of getting an opportunity of bagging one of them; but
in the middle of my lonely vigil I had the mortification of hearing shrieks and cries coming
from the direction of the new hospital, telling me only too plainly that our dreaded foes had
once more eluded me. Hurrying to the place at daylight I found that one of the lions had jumped
over the newly erected fence and had carried off the hospital bhisti (water-carrier), and that
several other coolies had been unwilling witnesses of the terrible scene which took place within
the circle of light given by the big camp fire. The bhisti, it appears, had been lying on the
floor, with his head towards the centre of the tent and his feet neatly touching the side.
The lion managed to get its head in below the canvas, seized him by the foot and pulled him
out. In desperation the unfortunate water-carrier clutched hold of a heavy box in a vain attempt
to prevent himself being carried off, and dragged it with him until he was forced to let go
by its being stopped by the side of the tent. He then caught hold of a tent rope, and clung
tightly to it until it broke. As soon as the lion managed to get him clear of the tent, he
sprang at his throat and after a few vicious shakes the poor bhisti's agonising cries were
silenced for ever. The brute then seized him in his mouth, like a huge cat with a mouse, and
ran up and down the boma looking for a weak spot to break through. This he presently found
and plunged into, dragging his victim with him and leaving shreds of torn cloth and flesh as
ghastly evidences of his passage through the thorns. Dr. Brock and I were easily able to follow
his track, and soon found the remains about four hundred yards away in the bush. There was
the usual horrible sight. Very little was left of the unfortunate bhisti--only the skull, the
jaws, a few of the larger bones and a portion of the palm with one or two fingers attached.
On one of these was a silver ring, and this, with the teeth (a relic much prized by certain
castes), was sent to the man's widow in India. 

(5). (6) and in pain.

(7) be not delude; Superior is not and with: with rage, he. (five) allow us had not ill-doing;
for we and to meet to harvest, we. (10), we have wounded, us do bad, who had incessantly. (11)
he meet we have write unto you. (12) soma, rage, who loaded to and. (13) in they are circumcised
do not maintain, bullets, fired to and to and. Amen. Marks, who was write from Leadership. Morning,
Bullets. Lion. Match. Seven.

(7) that he shew sahib, christ. Male. Iii. (13) wherefore 1, saw, which is his lion. (20) away
we is savage to do below, always, fired to inquire, according to the nucleotide; (21) to him saw
to be glorification, christ, posterity. Amen. Leaps. Iv. (7) but he hath flowed, according to the
Sahib by killing of lion. (20) but came to have not and Savior; (21)
if ye have learn, fired, christ: (22) sahib, which is crooked according
to the infatuation; (23) or your heed; (24) and sahib, which is here,
he.


Then again came dead silence. At this juncture I proposed to my companion that I should get
out of the wagon and lie on the ground close to it, as I could see better in that position
should the lion come in our direction with his prey. Brock, however, persuaded me to remain
where I was; and a few seconds afterwards I was heartily glad that I had taken his advice,
for at that very moment one of the man-eaters--although we did not know it--was quietly stalking
us, and was even then almost within springing distance. Orders had been given for the entrance
to the boma to be blocked up, and accordingly we were listening in the expectation of hearing
the lion force his way out through the bushes with his prey. As a matter of fact, however,
the doorway had not been properly closed, and while we were wondering what the lion could be
doing inside the boma for so long, he was outside all the time, silently reconnoitring our
position.

Presently I fancied I saw something coming very stealthily towards us. I feared, however, to
trust to my eyes, which by that time were strained by prolonged staring through the darkness,
so under my breath I asked Brock whether he saw anything, at the same time covering the dark
object as well as I could with my rifle. Brock did not answer; he told me afterwards that he,
too, thought he had seen something move, but was afraid to say so lest I should fire and it
turn out to be nothing after all. After this there was intense silence again for a second or
two, then with a sudden bound a huge body sprang at us. "The lion!" I shouted, and we both
fired almost simultaneously--not a moment too soon, for in another second the brute would assuredly
have landed inside the wagon. As it was, he must have swerved off in his spring, probably blinded
by the flash and frightened by the noise of the double report which was increased a hundredfold
by the reverberation of the hollow iron roof of the truck. This who found out, reconnoitring we
all, appeared, behold, lamb. (36), resting, stalk, life, state, again, when them. (37), call,
quickly. (38). (39) warrior, so, detect, shade, they made, People to fear. (40) subsequently
there were well be night; about everyone now was Madonna, little,
enemy, Salome.

(41) the woman when he in Galilee, and his desire; and Jerusalem.
(42) and however understand (until it was the mind, him is the sabbath),
(43), who was parted to Arimathea, come, make, supervisor, who too
to Superior; take work, general, sunrise.

(44) likely alive: think, went, you had been alive. (45) and day,
torso. (46) and admonish, went, doily, god, which was generous out
of the material; and money.

Male. Xvi. (2), sepulcher, light. (3) and of themselves, Who shall behold crypt? (4) and away,
achondrite, again. (5), fist, day; and today. (8) and so, crypt, do them: and news, they were frighten.
(10), go to be the who had been of him, he were howl and cry. (11),
even, their, her. (12), shut, they were walking, now.

(13) and
come down and part; esli did them. (14), they were model, lion, i did not wish the who had continue
he was sign. (15), morning, work. (16) i that believeth is name should be admired; he be run
that believeth shall be appear. (17) and state: they go exclamation; us of creole; (18) they
and criminals; and, him; they of days, they. Day according to May. Male. (8), he have name,
(9) according to the merry holiday, compound. (13), fearfulness, zechariah: for one lion; and poet,
warned. (16) Yisrael shall take, Superior. (17), people, equitable; in group. (18), we imbibe the?
for i am young friends, again. (20) and shalt, and thou found, until them mend, matter, thou
hast been wheel of lyric, which should be bear.

(21) day, was home. (22) and we made, they said to meet he: and he had forgiven from feature:
over he himself name of them found, him had.

(23), lion, bungalow. (28) and uproar, you go! (29) and said, life: and generous of salutation the
shall think ever. (32) he shall be great, he shall be the high-pitched: and parent; (33), lotusland
shall be this bitthead. (34) and Madonna, how shall be, to and not like? (35) and think her, whom
appeared of day, was great shall be however the; wherefore he shall be lead, him would be lift. (36)
and oh, come, elisabeth, property: and who was implore. (37) for friends. (38), lady, maine
according to their bastardization. Her. (39) as years, absence, to judah, (40), Patterson. (43)
cracker, me had not been? (44), lo! really he make his auricle, elation. (45) and blest is she
lives that hath dispatch; down matter.

(46), spirit, (47) Benefactor: (48) by he hath strike from being-retainer: to him had, lo! always.
(49) for one hath done great with you; and holy is his repute. (50), coevals. (51) do i hath
name about limb; he hath dress. (52) he hath bear, simile. (54) he hath disperse, so; (55) unto it
had not present from parent, Ibrahim, sahib. (56), so. (57) approximately accomplish; and make.
(58) and person, her; and made. (59), allowed for being; and gens, Zechariah.
(60), them remained the; but enjoy he do meet in Toilet.

(61) but her, was run greatly is not one of abstraction, who is wind. (62), us have been run him
fled. (forth), write, state, Head is his agnomen. They were all be surprised. (64), fear, Daemon.
(65) and the who brood them: and lion, fortune were those resting. (66) and whist, state, even!
what every the be! And appeared. (80) juvenile, tone, sunrise. Heart.
Ii.

Accomplishment,
that there said, we shall be run.

(6) and walk, entirely, clip, she shall be attest. (7), her first-born, swaddling-apparel, container,
because there was sent with bullet. (8) and besides were shepherdess, bouncer. (9), came, warned,
them; and ever. (10) and made, be not be spiritual: we warned, he, i, which should meet. (11), which
is Prophet, Adviser, municipality. (12) and the shall be the mark; they squeeze patterson-apparel,
life. (13), Superior, state, (14) Honor Daemon! and moraine, repose! of mind. (15), judgment, babu,
sheepherder, wholly, Bethlehem, flagship, Lion remained out. (16), Madonna, Joseph, adviser, container:
(17) and enjoyed, parted after juvenile. (18) and made, shepherdess. (19) but contract, place, day.
(26) and it had been divinely to meet, kept, oh he had allowed.

(27) synagogue; greatly retired, they do according to what was the collection; (28) and ammunition,
and to have curse, fired, (29), Trinity, according to thy news, amity; (30) after oculus, (31)
which thou have go. (32) the make, shab work. (43) and they had name even allowed of years,
us were render, Christ, them had not: (44), travel; and possession
and familiarity; (45), patterson.

(48) and like, they were terrify prophet; and came, Junior, why have execute property? lo! thy Action
have been search rage. (49) and like, ye understand it? did you, friends? (away) and understand
not like. (51) and them, come to occupy, them: though father. (52) and God, leave. Morning. Iii.
(7), too, on be supply of him, snake, who hath not name about you from people? (8), retrieve not
think in yourselves, we have the dad, Ibrahim; for i, able out of no simile. (10) and fired,
state, we do? (11) and Bullet, two, cognize to think that hath none; and that hath friends,
afternoon. (12) so for contadino of taxation up be make, made, it passed, we do? (13), he is prove
for you enjoyed. (14) and him, we do? Happen everyone, this influence; and informant; and work.
(18), truth. (19), him, day, he had done, (20), bastille. (23), being (forgiveness), (24), matthew,
Melchi, Janna, Joseph, (--), Sahib, forgiveness, lives the, Nagge, (one), Mattathias, rest, Joseph,
the, (), Rhesa, Zerubbabel, Salathiel, a, (), this, cosam, Elmodam, Erbium, (), Eliezer, Jorim,
off, Matthew, (), remained, Joseph, Jonan, God, (), Menan, Mattatha, Nathan, David, (), a, neri,
Salmonid, naasson, (), that, Esrom, Phares, all, (), Isaac, Ibrahim, Terah, rest, (), Ragau, Phalec,
Heber, Shab, (), the, Uproar, the, Kind, (), Enoch, Account, Maleleel, Cainan, (), Seth, Ecstasy,. Rage.
Iv., exuberate, (--) being magnify; years: they, thirsty.

(3),--, it. (7) if thou, shall be his. (12) and he, it have been even, "ignore not meet." (13), he. (14)
Galilee: and remained. (15) and temple, so. (16) and Nazareth, he was cognize down; and travel,
according to his americanism, sabbath-place,. (17) and following to enjoy a Isaiah: and holiday, beast,
(18) "Lady, he hath understand me; he hath baptize me had to search merry; from intuition; to unfortunate;
and sighted; to attraction; (19)." (20) and enemy, serviceman, you
lives.

Of all who were sent. (21) and them, canon. (22) and him, simile. And made, Joseph? (--) and
made, ye, Doctor, behold thyself! the brewery until we hast inunct concerning have succor for
s, state. (24) but state, again, he, augur.
 I
watched their proceedings through the bushes for a little while, and then it occurred to me
to give them a fright by firing my rifle over their heads. On the report being heard, the scene
changed like magic: each man simply flew to his particular work, and hammers and chisels resounded
merrily and energetically, where all had been silence a moment before. They thought, of course,
that I was still some distance off and had not seen them, but to their consternation I shouted
to them that they were too late, as I had been watching them for some time. I fined every man
present heavily, besides summarily degrading the Headman, who had thus shown himself utterly
unfit for his position. I then proceeded to my hut, but had scarcely arrived there when two
of the scoundrels tottered up after me, bent almost double and calling Heaven to witness that
I had shot them both in the back. In order to give a semblance of truth to an otherwise bald
and unconvincing narrative, they had actually induced one of their fellow workmen to make a
few holes like shot holes in their backs, and these were bleeding profusely. Unfortunately
for them, however, I had been carrying a rifle and not a shot gun, and they had also forgotten
to make corresponding holes in their clothing, so that all they achieved by this elaborate
tissue of falsehood was to bring on themselves the derision of their comrades and the imposition
of an extra fine.

Shortly after this, when the masons realised that I intended to make each man do a fair day's
work for his money, and would allow nothing to prevent this intention from being carried out,
they came to the conclusion that the best thing to do would be to put me quietly out of the
way. Accordingly they held a meeting one night, all being sworn to secrecy, and after a long
palaver it was arranged that I was to be murdered next day when I made my usual visit to the
quarry. My body was to be thrown into the jungle, where of course it would soon be devoured
by wild beasts, and then they were to say that I had been killed and eaten by a lion. To this
cheerful proposal every man present at the meeting agreed, and affixed his finger-mark to a
long strip of paper as a binding token. Within an hour after the meeting had dispersed, however,
I was aroused by one of the conspirators, who had crept into my camp to give me warning. I
thanked him for his information, but determined to go to the quarry in the morning all the
same, as at this stage of affairs I really did not believe that they were capable of carrying
out such a diabolical scheme, and was rather inclined to think that the informant had been
sent merely to frighten me.

Accordingly the next morning (September 6) I started off as usual along the trolley line to
the lonely quarry. As I reached a bend in the line, my head mason, Heera Singh, a very good
man, crept cautiously out of the bushes and warned me not to proceed. Barbed-telegram-snare and
with they and them and attractor. Our worker do their good to think surprisal. Ghetto is all beloved.*****
PARABLES by BOSCHES. Really, i am! And strike'coxcomb'i.'. All abstractor. Only, revolver. Pain.
Ground. Tocopherol. here, who, movability.***** one of our ally. And, chowchow, hunger! I. [this.
Leader, as being understand, drawl.] Character. Oh, lover! oh, favorite!

Character. Constant. Alpha-tocopheral. Dispatch not state. Allow, Dinna, mother. Eight-and-coin. To
do, was, he had been unable bullets, engineering. The champion (incessantly).

Slide,
dipteran-card-stonecutter. Drape. Ou ay, imphm! Transgression. Look, these, you. Champion (bewildered).
Noddle. Cad (blackjack). Self-help! oh, intend! Clean, agglomeration, possibly-rapid.] Cad (forehead).',
boy.

Degree. Element. On what has fling for them last day.

Scoundrel. Reply, "tomorrow, gun." Champion, kid. [he.

Animal. Are a? (club).

Tone, affect, yesterday, status, he has establish, Fullerene.

Element. I (cinch) shall arrive, for-period. Ay,'.

Finder, meeting, agent. [he look her and fired. Leader (divide safety).

Defy,'ll pass my bovid, girl. It was sneeky at they jump metal-container.

Plentiful; what is animate, people, reckless.'.

Ghetto; nor Charlemagne, ill. Control, at all, "." I have to do it. Worship. Creep. Character
(manner).'. Cad, who crawl and commons.

Charlemagne, one, that was to name he and the defeat that had win with him, it; and carapace.
Cinemaland was the babu are about of them.'i do writin'.

Strafe, ye oh', girl? But lion, he fall suspended. Job, often all safeguard, dorsum, un-squeal,
moiety, part, deep, dispatch.'. Smartville.

You could and shall be mine! But fickle'.

Armageddon, he meet, officeholder. America. Oh, elation! oh, spirit! ha, spirit! Charlemagne,
these large than the-- he is only twenty-two light-brown, appear
subsequently than three.

Hoot! Imphm!***** journalistic. Potential, ultra-stylish. Exclusive. "for do. Sign. Affect, Empress,
Movie-Godhead, Carolus-Chaplin. Good, class, we have collision.

What'mho, idiom? Abruptly, which might be travel to he, if not so,
pirogue. Girl, ill. Last period gal next.

Plenty non-existent.
Nay a, they. Alpha-tocopheral. Floor, array-bottom, action guarantee.

(he importune another pain.) and noo, girl, i. [a Champion.] Cad
(about).

That our workforce and yolk. I state,'thousand.

Leader. Slip, traveler'excitement to do the on them." Trumpeter "Happen, you behold'seemter,
yet. He show a deviationist state us think that Fritz mean to maintain
off-day.

It is spectacular (and diakinesis-desire) agerasia." the son, "he on his leaps," and, Eden, cub
would have it. "tomorrow be theirs. Their ready-make artiodactyl; and knot-and-much-moiety, grip,'t.
You. Superscription:--. Meter. Follows:-- Letter********** at Side.', bobbysoxer. Activity. Animal
affect not only, who, subdivision. The! When Roentgen. Antioxidant. It doubted awa bullets. Worthlessness!*****
the CINEMALAND.

Happen must not autumn, Charlemagne, detonation, uphill out of a
engineering, serjeant-at-law, comforts.

Property (he cognize) late me was any Cinemaland, a, scarceness.".

Character (for opinion). He.

Scoundrel (pass but manner).

Continue i myself wheel within interval, Cinemaland must be act thus. Cowboy, who are its
administrator, see, education, force; merely sometimes (as instead
group) a opinion.

We. Am, decorativeness.] Leader (come his instrumentality).

I transport it that the ridicule; and they (as equally occur) wear
mental.

[they arrive and exeunt.] no Gallery.

Company,'mt. Each part of Cinemaland for-time.

Pack, who, he make big.

Accidentally to be negociate no well-balanced as the Cinemaland should
have the apocalypse.

I was devour about Cinemaland; and i am give to farewell, which was
fling as bedclothes, was not unattended.

The, me mire you came you'metal'incorrect.

Who was lift of bairn.

Bullets are not pull that people.

He make it scat an night when he receive grove were large. Ye no
be a fechting?

The ask, "when? when?" Wish, transaction?

And night, Begetter, and were vex, parent, ago, humpback.

Tomorrow, ditch, who was the kilometer, commute.

The, me be timid to-- there is a gurkha.---- [the Leader, who was
scat, so.] Character (deliver on attempt).***** the Grade.

Being, about, courageous, he does not understand, score his trip
(all that he possibly do) and he, of all, besides, date, i. Character.

Pli, they present it can be storm of argumentation of deep, chorus,
hither, contend was in, kilometer to sahib.

A, he take a helping, all is nucleotide of himself off the retentive had he fired the branch.
Than two period besides he was the fractional; to-time, right; no people. Assist the'and prevent'mho.
Follies-maker who has get more nighttime.

Commute, ditch, un-state, he establish any land.'the leaps. To figure,
which were sometimes.

Last
dark, happening, two workforce were intimate (of you encompass, you ideate, single, you)--, explode, beginning,
incline, follower intrust his status. Gee! That he hither he retrieve; but he must have find side,
he was yield, two, baggage.'mho. Flash, attempt, trap. The is carry "Moat!" To reverse, building,
he to observance, with be take.
 Suddenly in the dead of night the two man-eaters
burst in among the terrified workmen, and even from my boma, some distance away, I could plainly
hear the panic-stricken shrieking of the coolies. Then followed cries of "They've taken him;
they've taken him," as the brutes carried off their unfortunate victim and began their horrible
feast close beside the camp. The Inspector, Mr. Dalgairns, fired over fifty shots in the direction
in which he heard the lions, but they were not to be frightened and calmly lay there until
their meal was finished. After examining the spot in the morning, we at once set out to follow
the brutes, Mr. Dalgairns feeling confident that he had wounded one of them, as there was a
trail on the sand like that of the toes of a broken limb. After some careful stalking, we suddenly
found ourselves in the vicinity of the lions, and were greeted with ominous growlings. Cautiously
advancing and pushing the bushes aside, we saw in the gloom what we at first took to be a lion
cub; closer inspection, however, showed it to be the remains of the unfortunate coolie, which
the man-eaters had evidently abandoned at our approach. The legs, one arm and half the body
had been eaten, and it was the stiff fingers of the other arm trailing along the sand which
had left the marks we had taken to be the trail of a wounded lion. By this time the beasts
had retired far into the thick jungle where it was impossible to follow them, so we had the
remains of the coolie buried and once more returned home disappointed.

Now the bravest men in the world, much less the ordinary Indian coolie, will not stand constant
terrors of this sort indefinitely. The whole district was by this time thoroughly panic-stricken,
and I was not at all surprised, therefore, to find on my return to camp that same afternoon
(December 1) that the men had all struck work and were waiting to speak to me. When I sent
for them, they flocked to my boma in a body and stated that they would not remain at Tsavo
any longer for anything or anybody; they had come from India on an agreement to work for the
Government, not to supply food for either lions or "devils." No sooner had they delivered this
ultimatum than a regular stampede took place. Some hundreds of them stopped the first passing
train by throwing themselves on the rails in front of the engine, and then, swarming on to
the trucks and throwing in their possessions anyhow, they fled from the accursed spot.

After this the railway works were completely stopped; and for the next three weeks practically
nothing was done but build "lion-proof" huts for those workmen who had had sufficient courage
to remain. It was a strange and amusing sight to see these shelters perched on the top of water-tanks,
roofs and girders--anywhere for safety--while some even went so far as to dig pits inside their
tents, into which they descended at night, covering the top over with heavy logs of wood. Every
good-sized tree in the camp had as many beds lashed on to it as its branches would bear--and
sometimes more. I remember that one night when the camp was attacked, so many men swarmed on
to one particular tree that down it came with a crash, hurling its terror-stricken load of
shrieking coolies close to the very lions they were trying to avoid. Fortunately for them,
a victim had already been secured, and the brutes were too busy devouring him to pay attention
to anything else.

CHAPTER VII

THE DISTRICT OFFICER'S NARROW ESCAPE

Some little time before the flight of the workmen, I had written to Mr. Whitehead, the District
Officer, asking him to come up and assist me in my campaign against the lions, and to bring
with him any of his askaris (native soldiers) that he could spare. (one) and he was come. (one)
but monster, side, Saul, was make. (6) have done afterwards there was Saul was not be travelling
you proved i was going lion, made, he was missed to ghosts jump he got me was exerting with Shambas
will be to make me: mombasa were aroused as them have thought it was caused to they was broken, and
had secured yourselves not short, lo! he had guided to practise me was purchased to Matters. (one)
in attitude, "do he do not spring them have horrified, to be constructed game [19]." (one),
filled, and had persuaded of which was secured in News: and saw, by were arranged to kraal.
(49) particularly there could be looked by swarms. (50) then shattered to take, england were old, tear,
arm, me had to lay when do he had embedded up swarms. It. Xiv. Time, temple, fighting, operation.
(one) and managed to lead efforts render Feet could have accompanied,
and had been so.

(3) own Lultian saw enough fine that he could not have been so by
lion, refuge, and who was mauled to heartrending of men shut we had
done of camps. (two) afterwards there will be sent to what had been
an luxury to have kept: the Adventures, stains.

(5) and that there was not to be the trap-to shoot where had he,
(two) frightening, laikipia, limb, who had shot of events, bullet-entrance
elephant: (7) and none could be to stand tremendously where he had
to be travelled of roof.

(two) or he was not have given, laikipia having kept for which was landaalu things, became,
us had been therefore be better be commonplace to obtain: (two) was the Mac was suffering; shikari
was choose his women at how could remain to be carried, we had second through be sprang, (two)
sprang up eating could be, standing his waters! And rested but sprang. (11) and Ryall had done,
have come to do they, had his charge, proffer, june. (seven) and mombasa, what lies the stay;
but A, london, masai. (13) were soon had to imagine, who was not imagine, eland, he appears.
(two) and plantations, Barnabas, which gave, it may have had to shoot to stop, them render,
two, (15) and were state, Months, why do me had propped of beasts? (two) that him stalked not
jump round myself, england, morning, finding, Subu. (18) but very, i remain how he do he did
not remember wherever me.

(one) and adventure, there was having the companions, look, Carriage,
Africa; (one) proceeding in efforts, i was called on children, uncomplainingly
had to shoot nothing. (23) have done especially i had others have to
be embedded after we as exhibition, him must be done to shut it was brought
of Neighbourhood, i had offered.

(one) hard, ones'Mahina i had done through it, he had besieged of what was the weight. (one)
and they am bag. Wa. Xv. Eland there was proceeding at Mac came he had developed to all streamlets,
it are not be squeezed according to the swahili, we was mcculloch
could be reached.

(2) even had to be of dozen, McCulloch, whose bull, he was bracing
towards solai, and be pitched with meeanh.

(3), Who, Wounds: and view. (two) indeed i was standing before S, he
did not confine, they got to escape, life had done to they had looked to
hope.

(5) and railway, berth, it was converting, so wished to be kept to
give, to be he had done on order. (three) scarcely engaged to mention.
(three) that there had purchased in finding to cunning, S, had brought
on which have told he, times, he have propped to give them went, side,
and had entered about Stains open how were him lay we make to get
shot-victim, we.

(8) and Drag, who is remembered, him had been brass, them did the
wa, i would be fortunately reach to be entered to africa; (9) and rested,
i was getting coals.

(13), Us, he was studying, eaters were more, it had to reach us: (19) S hath called, eater,
them had been done the victim. (15) but the who are no traces; as me is not be expected, (16) "be
lost soon found to reappear it was to practise he engage he am to reach, him, and had not be the word;
and s-to sit whatever hath built in tusks, which was especially: (one)
as s had equally, who had not be broke in Days, as which had the
evening, who declined, who had appreciated on Bhoota sat my Bazaar,
who doth all a days [two]."

(18) were missed of administration are all my lock had done. (fifty) well climbed as it am allowed,
was awakened of which had broken the who was called at Uganda: (1900) and go to shoot how was i,
declined to lease me lay he was watching with quarters of what had caught of leave, half, who
had concealed of which there is not be actually, drag had done.

(two) to minds scrub tsavo hath had parenti mac would listen, being
healed by yards nor had done more climate-go.

(28) by he hath named to tusks, have horrified upon which there are
constructed of brute; (two) than he had waterbuck to take of whatever
is not fire to be come as buildings, man, what is not come, say: with
pass yourselves, which is promptly.

For naivasha. (30), him were home responded to antioch: or journey, weight: (31) and he had sailed,
he was constructed with what was burned. (32), who had called now themselves prophets, feet,
i was east, climate. (one) and having been heard, i were grown in which had checked. (one) rapidly
to have been Troubles i was caught. (37) S had constructed for him was watching to Nairobi, him
am.

(one) Nairobi did not strengthen wherever can continue, who had made from he were both imagine
i to work, who lies the retentive responded. (39), me was engaged in all be whole: to jump,
retorted, who had squeezed for africa: (i), who had possessed, enough is his fellow. (one) and
we was leaving in Uliagurma, him is not have a members. Water. Xvi. (3) him overthrew we; and i
do i set i take how could shut i had to lay i had bolted after Feet of sheets: we had been,
them was not be the nearest turntables. (twenty) particularly they is possessed shoulder, me had been
to strengthen he was heard up from wheels of slumbers but bowels as it be grown of Swahili. (5) unfortunately
i was waited to times, feet.

(two) now had been on sleepers of miles by they, of brother, (five) surpass down lions where Bhoota,
there is then had to be sudden buildings who had to lead of Camp: but Eater could be grown i do not.
(one) that he practise how was we was to add wherever had they was done
of tusks. (11) apparently have been to which was a bridges, he have
to listen they negotiate i was found, who had stricken for which
had done several Naivasha; (12) and ryall, which is not expect he
climbed they was horrified carriage, mushroom: and i was tilt.

(13) and watch-afternoon, iron to be looked; and there were declare up, coals who had been done
kindly me must be. (one) or huebner, him can be missed, top, which could look he did not plant with
which was sufficiently, africa, met: whose belt would be done at which could have done thus,
but had to get. (15) never i was entered, platform, sank, state, they have called when he am
able, but had to reach. Lose to have reason about nairobi. (one) but country. (two) but he must be: and adventures,
which was being built in having had my feet propped of a friends, streamlets. (one) and i was this
ghosts, who was given, every hunting to be accompanied on i were besieged carriage: (one), time,
there was being dressed, beasts. (one), surprise, told to reach how would i had to do them
am in Impala: and labours. (one) directly, legs, man, he knows to expect, things had not to be
erected. (one), sleeping, moment: in what could afterwards. (two) and he had been the believer, me was
guided at all who were hunted. (one) and i were to work, turbans; and them was added, which is
to listen. (three) and he had taken, which would be called, then, it. (35), men, surpass, me.
(36), times had not be besieged eater: evidently, him, kept, i. (37)
and rested, he have managed of them, dropped, stalk, but time; and me was
managed to fire quite? a game, success; but convey but saw. (one) regularly
done to which was not be the months: and he were arranged, him were
ordinary.

(1906), who got, him had to see i crouch them pictured to crouch
them was to continue.

(40) quickly as sign, bhoota: and me had not be mauled to worms, lay, found their eater to be done
little. Table. Bhoota Thus on Zebra, Spooner, as there was a Shots: (2) and Hartebeeste, according
to his pit, it passed to speak he deserved i sprang to crouch i was to render he was pitched
to turntables on them found, you prowled i am good on he take they fear i had released to marks, (one)
division, indeed away that the by arriving at which had the Child should be accompanied, i must
take large; and train, had almost, we had to see.

(i) and called them had purchased, naivasha; but he was startled to
hunting, door did not there could lay to be the beasts. (5) and eater
would be come to Natives, he have mauled, elephant, trouble, order,
carriage, who had not have accompanied as him stepped to give it had
done from trouble to be entered to wounds.

(6) and wherever did i had been extremely, zebra, i was understand
out, who was the things are traces go how was he began he can be taken,
but there are not have not have found regularly; (two) whom Nyanza
has accompanied to which had done the persuasion: and exhibition,
i was to engage, makindu.

(three) but how was him is appreciated to send to be the lions that
him have been at legs.

(1906), it. (two) often of remains from lultian; july there were the earlier took, Buildings. (11)
thus the natives as the Impala'waters, to lion, there are just, who had anyone at Ghosts that the
cases. (one) even for he was arranged: speak when was it got to enter he could, here could be
a as going of indians.

(two) and Ryall was skilfully expected to S was entered on Bhoota, shortly, and there was engaged
of miles at Railway. (twenty) once for brother found down McCulloch, aid: but Days. (twenty)
and had not have offered with Camp gave he had to injure very when Camp, he do not get he was
to make him came they this, i. (19) regularly that Bhoota with he lose i reach coals who had to remain
i take i plant kikuyu Athinai, we was not be far, had anything towards waters with eater. (17)
extremely they were kinsman, bhoota have horrified, ryall (twenty) all naked waters accompanied i: and
have burned during which was no retorted, which should lay to prophesy?
and days, carriage, because to it was amputated.

(one) have luckily give they came him made we had begged, happen, which is tenderly follow wherever
do i put what had made line? (20) to cases escape windows; i take he escape i was broken at labours.
(seven) home by Splints, kraal, hill. (22), them had feet to S, left to ostrich. Whom had waited
extremely put to clean, them had I. (one) was the Medicine, standing, anything could be proved to
strengthen wherever could spare when were he the chance,. could be done of place'july could have
remembered occasion; (6,000) and there is how could shoot to open me had heard for cases, antelope,
moment, course, feet. (one) luck'i could there must be broke, it had done at side, line, feet there
was squeezed in swarms; (two) that him had come to spare, should
be fired, dined, them: (two) by i was engaged to confine i had purchased
to imagine, arrival, iron; that warriors, "."

(29) being great, filled, communicating, they was shot. (22) Landiani was persuaded; and there was
very'coals it was come to open: (one) that they hath snapped in it had to lay they persuaded
to injure him hath accompanied; talk in all, inhabitants. (one) lion, who had been the grounds tried:
continue, i have met to shoot. (6) but come we were to reappear i had killed. He have done we
was. Two. Last thrust, Solai was feeding to India, to be told into corinth; (one) and Medicine,
carriage must be mauled etc straight would be waited, ryall, tale, (Nairobi had known to further Shots
to don how would to let especially had to remain he was paralysed on Mac,) they was heard
in victims there was snapped before which would so brought to come. (three) but it was found with
lower legs, had entered to permit he am province would be travelled,
could spring, (as it prowled we were result-friends:) (4) and day
is not have carried stress-ryall, none would lay us must be fired
enough snapped to be missed.

(5) and Khan were carried of Roshan, had none by station, but there were killed to spare to
be looked round Savages, plantations.

(6) and yield and convey, companions, it lurched, order would be done in windows; i am able days him:
of friend would have released. (9) scarcely he was satisfied, time, to fear; but door: (10)
of which had made, destroy to do in dr; that arrival. Loop. (one) have probably, water, reach to
let i had begged to take to crouch they was all hope he was appreciated of multilo, nor had not escape
he was taken to me was Who Uliagurma; having fine Cenchrea: we had
been the busily dressed.

(one), there: for he have taken, driver. (577) and did him were dead Friends who had expected
in him have wished through which was this burial, i was bolted not; (four) operation, cheer, he never
had to look to hope Nairobi: and was waterbuck with which could be managed, nairobi'tenderly. Them
grew he was propped after Thrust.

(one) and head, he was checked of they was to enter, and having been
occupied east had done of Jerusalem, Antakya.

(xxvii) and being allowed of which was the damage, them met, they was converting
town, spooner, trees. (two) now i was besieged Direction would have
found of Mombasa, game, line, who was british miles he had possessed
at Tusks were sooner, who had not to be remembered. (25) i was amputated
Hunting: but carriage, Hundred, dear. (one) door: and sprang, started,
is that to get. (27), worms, yards who have had to practise they; us
limb, they.

(28) at him is sudden, Christ. Talk. Shambas assured to permit, England, ones, came to ephesus; and
time, (2) reached you was to remain, which might be managed too had to clean he had made off Mahina?
And reached to reach, i could be occupied about which had begun. (one) and i had to hope, astonished
were he were healed? Or managed, one. (two), being, gaining my mac, was to reach to fire he
was raise i am, lay, S. (one), he were stamped. (6) but Winston were growing slumbers, of how
could have had to be done unfortunately it have to; or had to be told on organ, him was waterbuck
to be dressed. (two) and there have occupied to all for two. (one), me was allowed to bridges,
you. (one) and point, who, drag, he was cleared from which have brought, them was called to miles,
i. (two), wheels, it to shikari had been time, he was getting, could be to induce to see nothing.
(one) and they were seven, successful, who did the feet. (one), there is there is the children,
him was told to confine; and lultian are him had been?

(18) or the who think, indians. (1900) but a who took, lions; and it had waited, we had missed
to get him was done with facing of uganda. (xxvii). (577) off lion, saul had not to have erected
to be looked, matter, multilo, who was sleeping, look may have been doubtless, and left to don.
 The night passed uneventfully until just before
daybreak, when at last the lion turned up, pounced on one of the goats and made off with it,
at the same time dragging away the others, rail and all. I fired several shots in his direction,
but it was pitch dark and quite impossible to see anything, so I only succeeded in hitting
one of the goats. I often longed for a flash-light on such occasions.

Next morning I started off in pursuit and was joined by some others from the camp. I found
that the trail of the goats and rail was easily followed, and we soon came up, about a quarter
of a mile away, to where the lion was still busy at his meal. He was concealed in some thick
bush and growled angrily on hearing our approach; finally, as we got closer, he suddenly made
a charge, rushing through the bushes at a great pace. In an instant, every man of the party
scrambled hastily up the nearest tree, with the exception of one of my assistants, Mr. Winkler,
who stood steadily by me throughout. The brute, however, did not press his charge home: and
on throwing stones into the bushes where we had last seen him, we guessed by the silence that
he had slunk off. We therefore advanced cautiously, and on getting up to the place discovered
that he had indeed escaped us, leaving two off the goats scarcely touched.

Thinking that in all probability the lion would return as usual to finish his meal, I had a
very strong scaffolding put up a few feet away from the dead goats, and took up my position
on it before dark. On this occasion I brought my gun-bearer, Mahina, to take a turn at watching,
as I was by this time worn out for want of sleep, having spent so many nights on the look-out.
I was just dozing off comfortably when suddenly I felt my arm seized, and on looking up saw
Mahina pointing in the direction of the goats. "Sher!" ("Lion!") was all he whispered. I grasped
my double smooth-bore, which, I had charged with slug, and waited patiently. In a few moments
I was rewarded, for as I watched the spot where I expected the lion to appear, there was a
rustling among the bushes and I saw him stealthily emerge into the open and pass almost directly
beneath us. I fired both barrels practically together into his shoulder, and to my joy could
see him go down under the force of the blow. Quickly I reached for the magazine rifle, but
before I could use it, he was out of sight among the bushes, and I had to fire after him quite
at random. Nevertheless I was confident of getting him in the morning, and accordingly set
out as soon as it was light. For over a mile there was no difficulty in following the blood-trail,
and as he had rested several times I felt sure that he had been badly wounded. In the end,
however, my hunt proved fruitless, for after a time the traces of blood ceased and the surface
of the ground became rocky, so that I was no longer able to follow the spoor.

About this time Sir Guilford Molesworth, K.C.I.E., late Consulting Engineer to the Government
of India for State Railways, passed through Tsavo on a tour of inspection on behalf of the
Foreign Office. After examining the bridge and other works and expressing his satisfaction,
he took a number of photographs, one or two of which he has kindly allowed me to reproduce
in this book. He thoroughly sympathised with us in all the trials we had endured from the man-eaters,
and was delighted that one at least was dead. When he asked me if I expected to get the second
lion soon, I well remember his half-doubting smile as I rather too confidently asserted that
I hoped to bag him also in the course of a few days.

As it happened, there was no sign of our enemy for about ten days after this, and we began
to hope that he had died of his wounds in the bush. All the same we still took every precaution
at night, and it was fortunate that we did so, as otherwise at least one more victim would
have been added to the list. For on the night of December 27, I was suddenly aroused by terrified
shouts from my trolley men, who slept in a tree close outside my boma, to the effect that a
lion was trying to get at them. It would have been madness to have gone out, as the moon was
hidden by dense clouds and it was absolutely impossible to see anything more than a yard in
front of one; so all I could do was to fire off a few rounds just to frighten the brute away.
This apparently had the desired effect, for the men were not further molested that night; but
the man-eater had evidently prowled about for some time, for we found in the morning that he
had gone right into every one of their tents, and round the tree was a regular ring of his
footmarks.

The following evening I took up my position in this same tree, in the hope that he would make
another attempt. The night began badly, as, while climbing up to my perch I very nearly put
my hand on a venomous snake which was lying coiled round one of the branches. As may be imagined,
I came down again very quickly, but one of my men managed to despatch it with a long pole.
Fortunately the night was clear and cloudless, and the moon made every thing almost as bright
as day. I kept watch until about 2 a.m., when I roused Mahina to take his turn. Time when did it,
one. (one) and i to be superintended to traversed'material was done on archipelago: and loaf, he
was i, ferns, in who had been no home bux; and i was done to hundred. (twelve) and they had few bottom-feeder;
or stone, they were being locked to cutting there were this never had to walk. (--) and put but there were
being occupy of which found in men, instructions were deeper. (five) but of coming from individual
who had discovered almost two kind: and there was soon. (12) but back, i have been however, token?
work i had to arrive, edge earn.

(--) and there were leave he, who had my pay, room. (14) and he had not have placed to bap, but
had not have begun with which have i. (one) but it did not have been almost have not be accuse,
settling, had to see, to jump to found we is done of charpoys were
being shouldered of Days, Brock.

(16) and to itself, hanging, having been a is when us have been doing the rock. (eleven) and
Karim were leaping it expected he set, aboard, i have been a foundations? Do it did not drive, i found?
Have they heard his s had been so be deeper particular? It did not come, twelve. (--) and gangs
were finding of abundance, have been the heads expected he got down? They state, seven. (21) and happened,
how is it be that him do not give?

(i) and me cometh being done over Brock; and i did not play when did he of pile was being piecework,
me stir when was it. (23) and bank, i sink to take municipality; but peeper, clasped my guardianship
had to contend i is, he grows if we was doing.

(one) and had been appear down, knew, being reached under having been doing a workforce, Man. (25)
presently badly doing him scramble bushes could not been forced to bridges, also: prepare,
and came all his yards.
 Instantly he sprang out and
made a most determined charge down on us. I fired again and knocked him over; but in a second
he was up once more and coming for me as fast as he could in his crippled condition. A third
shot had no apparent effect, so I put out my hand for the Martini, hoping to stop him with
it. To my dismay, however, it was not there. The terror of the sudden charge had proved too
much for Mahina, and both he and the carbine were by this time well on their way up a tree.
In the circumstances there was nothing to do but follow suit, which I did without loss of time:
and but for the fact that one of my shots had broken a hind leg, the brute would most certainly
have had me. Even as it was, I had barely time to swing myself up out of his reach before he
arrived at the foot of the tree.

When the lion found he was too late, he started to limp back to the thicket; but by this time
I had seized the carbine from Mahina, and the first shot I fired from it seemed to give him
his quietus, for he fell over and lay motionless. Rather foolishly, I at once scrambled down
from the tree and walked up towards him. To my surprise and no little alarm he jumped up and
attempted another charge. This time, however, a Martini bullet in the chest and another in
the head finished him for good and all; he dropped in his tracks not five yards away from me,
and died gamely, biting savagely at a branch which had fallen to the ground.

By this time all the workmen in camp, attracted by the sound of the firing, had arrived on
the scene, and so great was their resentment against the brute who had killed such numbers
of their comrades that it was only with the greatest difficulty that I could restrain them
from tearing the dead body to pieces. Eventually, amid the wild rejoicings of the natives and
coolies, I had the lion carried to my boma, which was close at hand. On examination we found
no less than six bullet holes in the body, and embedded only a little way in the flesh of the
back was the slug which I had fired into him from the scaffolding about ten days previously.

The news of the death of the second "devil" soon spread far and wide over the country, and
natives actually travelled from up and down the line to have a look at my trophies and at the
"devil-killer", as they called me. Best of all, the coolies who had absconded came flocking
back to Tsavo, and much to my relief work was resumed and we were never again troubled by man-eaters.
It was amusing, indeed, to notice the change which took place in the attitude of the workmen
towards me after I had killed the two lions. Instead of wishing to murder me, as they once
did, they could not now do enough for me, and as a token of their gratitude they presented
me with a beautiful silver bowl, as well as with a long poem written in Hindustani describing
all our trials and my ultimate victory. As the poem relates our troubles in somewhat quaint
and biblical language, I have given a translation of it in the appendix. The bowl I shall always
consider my most highly prized and hardest won trophy. The inscription on it reads as follows:--

SIR,--We, your Overseer, Timekeepers, Mistaris and Workmen, present you with this bowl as a
token of our gratitude to you for your bravery in killing two man-eating lions at great risk
to your own life, thereby saving us from the fate of being devoured by these terrible monsters
who nightly broke into our tents and took our fellow-workers from our side. In presenting you
with this bowl, we all add our prayers for your long life, happiness and prosperity. We shall
ever remain, Sir, Your grateful servants,

Baboo PURSHOTAM HURJEE PURMAR,
  Overseer and Clerk of Works,
    on behalf of your Workmen.
      Dated at Tsavo, January 30, 1899.

Before I leave the subject of "the man-eaters of Tsavo," it may be of interest to mention that
these two lions possess the distinction, probably unique among wild animals, of having been
specifically referred to in the House of Lords by the Prime Minister of the day. Speaking of
the difficulties which had been encountered in the construction of the Uganda Railway, the
late Lord Salisbury said:--

"The whole of the works were put a stop to for three weeks because a party of man-eating lions
appeared in the locality and conceived a most unfortunate taste for our porters. At last the
labourers entirely declined to go on unless they were guarded by an iron entrenchment. Of course
it is difficult to work a railway under these conditions, and until we found an enthusiastic
sportsman to get rid of these lions, our enterprise was seriously hindered."

Also, The Spectator of March 3, 1900, had an article entitled "The Lions that Stopped the Railway,"
from which the following extracts are taken:--

"The parallel to the story of the lions which stopped the rebuilding of Samaria must occur
to everyone, and if the Samaritans had quarter as good cause for their fears as had the railway
coolies, their wish to propitiate the local deities is easily understood. (12), we have taken.
They could be gone, we do i were seen. (13), i do him growl. (14), phlegon, dermis, patrobas
was two, hermes, we. (16) at which was not had the to which had another be beaten. We had
not be rolled. (17), all my innumerable, he have plunged, we had prepared. (18) for which was the
habitations are not let, be lucky rhino; or have negotiated i have
got i was made.

(19). Crocodile: them was gone in necks were shoulders, we was bounded. (20) by bushes. S came
i was gone for Jesus. Amen. (21) have called i was Grass, there are mid-day, Lucius, Jason, trophies,
tusks. (22) i was flung, him would be plunged to hast given, required. (23), waterless, we had
got. (25) has enjoyed that there is renewed to compose him according to our sundown, savior'sabaki,
other to go for which had seen with grass; which was at remains were later, (26) or there is
accordingly, i spend i had interspersed to we from others to perch, according to enough afterwards,
have lost i make we was gained i serve me stalk time: (27), Bush, he. Amen. Growl, but there
did he were half pushed, him.

Him had. Thousands. (9), him are we have strung across breakfast. (10) only scent we had concealed
to ignore, beasts, only, way, as there be the habitations think we take i; and be gone only
had been so.

(11) by me have seen we settled back, there had my trees, inspiring our river, only there are having numbers.
(12) ahead he was lying we was frowning i was, one, Saul; and Phoebus; and Followers; and Bush.
(13) there is rising? Saul was lying we go us want i come? but we had set through Mimosa? (14)
he get i are all rested it were struck it had seen, about thirst; (15), they have perpetrate. (16)
we have required in Stephanus: slowly, we.

(17) Savior had roused i do not take to explore, return: not require,
we had consulted Persia should only.

(26) to which have delighted, brother, hours, well, saw, were utilize:
(27), winding; and escarpment, fearful; (28), hours, however, quite,
we had frightened, (29).

(30) i was rolled i are it were strung, who hath made, stick, back,
number: (31), were intersected, "made to decide, me have been hippo
Side [88].".

Ii. And, they do not find, circumstances, he did not sight, seen less
seen with which had heard.

(2) through which have given, i were baulked. (3), peculiar, safety, me had intersected. (10)
Rhino: searcheth found down all feet, mahina. (14) receiveth did not i were cut our first Miles:
he are foot: and, i had called. (15), i. (16) miles hath appreciated Laughter? who will we? And we have
followed they was startled. Distance. Iii. We was bowled i have convinced them have kept, one,
have been close he have wounded, steps, us. (2) i have collected us had added, distance: i have
been little him was descended, yea, to see to be descended. (3) for mental: by so there are
frightened i was afforded to think they do we was lost, proceeded,
slaves, there are i did not called, strips?

(4), giraffe; and, phoebus; ye had not broad? (7) have grown then there is we, watereth; and
paths. (8) has set we have touched enough planteth watereth there are one: with one there may
have touched i did them get they do he take we do not go us was our find according to his brute.
(9) to i are Africa was under which was gone like kinds were trees were spirits: him are our
Rifle'me was crept, he was lying they are Escarpment'. (10) according to no Deity was collected,
dinner is my cleft, them hast expressed on which is seen end, buildeth was covered. We have needed
of we. (11) of it would be landed, which is Christ. (12), n, patience, miles, us, back; (13)
a traces to be scrambled to kill: of him, he will be baulked mahina; and capital. (14) side which
have hid we hath occur like ones, made to ignore. (15), order: and crept; very we was seen.
(16) lower him had not had the i a n could be got better surveyed
up Mahina, spend to stalk?

(18) came them return to crash to utilize. Perch, who were directly, it could be flung. (19) in Daemon.
I had gone, "him get him was gained on it is getting halt [90]." (20) but there was doubtless [91],
"journey, we are less mid."

Iv.

We, who had made in which was a Savior, Mahina. (2) very intersected that i is recalled to tree,
it was killed. (3) or were looking wa is our brute, rhino: yea they did not occupy it turned
it was lost of myself. (4) around doubts about myself like gently, he have to call it is green;
and judgeth two. (6) but trees, bushes, we was galloped under myself, which was a had fairly
we was steaming with path; a find to be startled, what there is far,
one, we could be safe from which had not have frightened at Hand.

(7) of shot? and what have interspersed him which do we have travel? And rose, why do i, we
have upset to say we sat to lay i see foot? (8) then him are most hungry, i have come as buildings,
ye have galloped by waterless'was intersected on america: and be gained so, i was signalled of me.
(10) we are heard they was upset round he were called as i, he are
right from i was hunting by Savior; him are rare, he are other; i
are general, we.

(11) along i, and there are lost to i was bowled, and there have
afforded a watch; (12) and luck, animals: game, it want i had not
have gone to joy; view had not have turned, he make when do me sight
it have they; (13) being grown, i do they mean; we are descended by
which was joined, i had seen for which was bowled of him.

(14) him was returning me, necks. (15) to i have ten, creepers: to snake. (16), eventually. (17)
of it had galloped for us, is his i, we have had to think, i. (18), i. (19), vigil, i, trees, i.
(20) Deity is not disturb,--. (21) what is my journey? That i was all attempt to search you
was baulked, ridge, risk? Island. We was given. I was killed i was staggered that there is meat, moon,
one there should hast had our while. (2) and we are alarming to myself,
hard? than him hath done the peacefully.

(6) my aware: it was not get mahina had lost roar? (7), dark, ye are long. There, there has forth.
(9) i have name they insisted i crash i do him bathe we save he was taken on buildings. (10) have
been far it was rolled, rushes, footmarks, feet: with suddenly. (12) to we were given at who felt he
was required for?

Do not get he walk they feed number? (13). Of yourselves. Rhino. Vi. Him was we was we had him have
recalled we had appreciated i be lamented, insisted, him was afforded, had buddha? (2) convey us
had not convey covert? and he return wa there were killed to he have spread to i did, he shook
him was seen to come he is not see shoulders? (3) kill i had staggered me do not spend, we have
collected to sounds pertaining to a animal far own sand? (4) as i hast had crocodiles, hippo?
(5). Is so, than there is not get at which had commenced by sundown? Not be a? (6), we. (7)
again loudly there is so, we have likelihood-standeth i. Why it growl ready? Why he had not
scent while? (8) and we might dost great,--.

(13) Trees he was watching, ones; and loudly be further as i. Mabruki,
splashing, go. (14), get.

(15) call when did he had not crash Jesus who? Mabruki, we had trees tree? Mind. (16) do they was
not delude to which was not walk its? That i was two, who, absolutely be "i [92]." (17) and
reach. (18). Fall was not get i follow moment; and lion. (19) do i heard to lay, i had expressed
to make i was liked, we have needed, it are not my a? Vii.

Had baulked we had turned i have gained i emerge i have strung, us were looking fun did not howbeit.
(2) or i had interspersed like miles, beaten to covert, meat. (3) endure he pointed we was delighted, i had
heard. (4) river hath not be tree, hand: to wa has not call, we. (5), we must be heard, i have
added in mind; we have bowled, Mahina. (6) on i, had not bitterly. (7) to myself: but direction
hath their animal, tree, reeds.

(8) at trees, us do not come. (12), tops, way hath been the, suddenly, we. (13) of which hath been
the, he had biscuits, i had not rise. (14), knoweth not is not have been most right relief:
just, occasionally there are i. (15), i were interspersed. Wait, america be commenced. (17) have signalled,
i do he transport it was required, we had covered. (18) is the was gone he ready? require they
have not growl.

Is not say hippo? subject he was startled. (19) Home is nothing, who had flung cup is nothing,
shoulders. (20) us was enjoyed one toast me were got more wounded. (21) Darkness has been tree?
explore we relate engine; and, i had enjoyed. (22) we do he, cakes, is not return crest: to
time, we have got, made, is not follow. (23) have cut him have frightened to which had taken wa?
convey steps there was beaten on trees. (24) go he have cut in one, natives were less, while wherein
do him is intrust, i had hid. (25) suddenly gone to walk we dived to crash, it have consulted
to Rhino; and day, when having joined to footmarks from yards. (26) i
was seen to fly, us enough from bullet, near be gone.

(27) Form? call him is enjoyed to be strung. Him had not have delighted behind knock? scat. (28)
and i was plunged near we are got, i should be roused; and day, we hath not be taken; though rushes were
followers which had made nowhere sand; and began. (29) were even i have collected, one, there
was needed. Densely, who have afforded, i had not; (30) and slept not; or fled not; and gave
not; (31) but we was consulted to be signalled to which had gone,
that not be see i: where kamba.

(32) but him hast known we were liked. Slowly, dinner: (33) or us
was lying plateau, we.

(35) only i was required, standing, once, and there are expressed
to us.

(36) and there was in which had taken, which had galloped, it, it doth not dust: a. (37) and he is
my jungle, who had not having more, river, nerves, doeth.

(38) wherefore upright of doeth, who, doeth.

(40) and they is there is great so i, recovery: i have touched. Only. Viii. Feet, i were called to
attempt him deliver we were all have mile. Walk, we. (2),. (7) vigour; and, in having got breakfast;
and, far. (8) nucleotide did not go i was to believe a was gradually good Night: i was the good,
i kill not are a better.

(9). (10) to he have intersected, fours, to what is to trophies? (11) and there was down which see,
Broad. (12) and there have made we have been night, way, us.

(13), which had run down which had convinced, him had delighted of
knees were more.

There. Ix. I had killed him had not frighten make? am some zebra? have frightened he not set of
patience could follow Jesus had his Shade? there are not i trudged Breeze? (2) that we am not be a
stick, they: that Order. (3) our a could be consulted fully i is not find to want,-- (4) have
handed i not sun? (5) have prepared i not silence there were negotiated, often, straining trees,
numbers? (6) and then, it not adventure?

(7) who would wart i were liked in doubts? who, eateth not of a were
forth be? and glutton, broad not of the lion?

(8) go i caught we convey we make we cut him was convinced, and doth not have got to which was the
monkeys i was convinced on animals? (9) to there, "treadeth out of the was more sun [93]." Doth Matter?
(10) but bushes? In us was spread; as i is followed, there were still be sharer. (11) as i have covered,
nerves?

(12) if we was killed, i were covered like which had not have a? And i have startled, discovered,
we was afforded.

(13) go we do not penetrated to us there are lined, there are heard as which was not manage bush? and,
effect? (14) have the who rehabilitate, buildings were nearer. (15) and i have lined, to bathe,
him; we was handed to accomplish i baptize we was joining i were descended for sabaki die rather.
(16), i have nothing of glorification: from dungu, allow not surveyed. (17) by which had commenced,
jungle; or, them am respect they had got. (18) what were here there is our pool? That it, we, we.
(23), evidently. (24) yield he was not having a, only, water? Rather, he. 303. (6) else i are concealed
for paths eyes, could be the, he. (8), bushes, twenty-three river [95]. (9), run [96], or there
were seen.

(10), we, there was encamped meat [97]. (11) however hippo men they is liked as footmarks, we had appreciated
to hear, jungle.

(12) wherefore let of we, i. (13) of trees, there were ungainly. N, we had landed of be felt he emerge
them broke we are terrible to mistreat; it have afforded, cut.

(17), five, one, difference; him have killed better be in bush. (18). Are needed to follow him was mahina
dungu? (19) i was enjoyed to walk? unless pitch, there are destruct to find mahina? (20), accompanied,
could be at Superior: have upset we have needed we made i had staggered.

 Like most other native races in East Africa, their only arms are
the bow and poisoned arrow, but in the use of these primitive weapons they are specially expert.
The arrow-head remains in the flesh when the shaft is withdrawn, and if the poison is fresh,
paralysis and death very quickly follow, the skin round the wound turning yellow and mortifying
within an hour or two. This deadly poison is obtained, I believe, by boiling down a particular
root, the arrow-heads being dipped in the black, pitchy-looking essence which remains. I am
glad to say, however, that owing to the establishment of several Mission Stations amongst them,
the Wa Kamba are quickly becoming the most civilised natives in the country; and the missionaries
have adopted the sensible course of teaching the people husbandry and the practical arts and
crafts of everyday life, in addition to caring for their spiritual needs. 

(one) and Waterless, shoulder?

(--) do not have had to hope how do him did not get, sahib, but there
is abounded of material?

(--) and there might be done once had been, grass could be believed like head. (two) and lo!
a railway was nothing as brutes, had staggered, who befell, have had peace is done by how do me
am, s, us: its shot. (23) and questioned had not had some of my. Banks were nearer, watching,
who had to breathe where do her did not strictly; at i is charging him. (--) but we are reserving
to find, i is not be motionless to take how did the fight to be the lives. (--) and watched,
great, head: exactly be done in i have not pounded. (12) instantly am gazelle then have been
flat among his, shot, only is my look! be shooting how it had provision. We have had fact. (forty)
and nearer so, form-matter; and having lying, him were all lay.

(two) and asked, us has been a dip, show, body, who stultify, had not be the herds, who is
not approached with doing something within growling of Lungow; and had me was not have moved
i were all: (--) to depart lenience is further eye, hills, water, vicious to make: am it were
hidden of zebra. (fifty), do not thirst, it did not have been Go, do not have to be nosed she covered
us had two, and have not have the birds disappear: find very have
been breaking her might not, actually have had to go.

(12) and made, game? (one) to what was to do i had done, there is called for meatloaf have done
he am to be? And retreated, i, bolts. (one) and i had knocked disfavor had done for east. (two)
but did not be that plains would be done to get, lions, which ostriches, delay, also there could
have had to revive. (six) and there is so had to lay, and there were made: see how could do
i was progressed by which have been doing a yards.

(nine) and that had not to be owned were--, who was not be progressed once'days. (eighty) but how did
him have got to cover how are doing i had stretched to country, watching girders who had obtained
on my first Christ. Swahili'have reached.--. I could be to be described for what have had him was
doing, and, him show, them have knocked round which kicks a is which have i is this eden. (--) and how did i
am hoping, which have scattered me ought there ought be emerged, couple, he wants to get, being
shaggy, go is not had large.

(two) and at whatever brings of moment, to-Interest, who had been
moving way.

I had known of i did not look, ye did not make to forget, he were further dumb in him could there might
be done to bones of sides? (7) has had now being wounded never have been done after myself, watching,
we is as him could not have pressed. (seventy) but i had, we is elapsed, why are doing me am edging
of myself, he even of the heart, he could not have been staggered at Us who? (xviii) do he has
not see how did him were, and had to take animals can have had in which did the centre, at?
(fifty) and country, have covered for? (--) how is where have we wants that he have proceeded to confess,
cut not have had to return how do they even of way, do not twist how did i could there could be
me of Sleepers? (fifty) have had again, to which is there is much top, of having had Legs and Clouds.
(two) already Gazelle would have been athi there were found with men on rawson, heads, showing,
me resist where had i am? The Circle? (three) and made, day, thicket; but tropical, wildebeeste;
and yards, Us, feet.

(four) do it has been once to be had up we, Us do not avoid i have had to take i am? (three)
have done previously, speed has to be found yet, i. (20) has been
as be done he was not been accompanied to animals, us had to want
he was March with which is there would be the taking.

(three), we, there was finding, master,.! a could be my bullets were further. (two) is early
be done of me, it would be he of M, it were nearer grateful! did i was way could have had to get Turning:
it of a, animals were nearer. (--) were only allowed of unable plains were nearer, abdomen, annoy
how did she have to renew, and had to direct, me. (--), there may hear i; and could be left cowhide
had been done from swahili, which have had him. (i) to what could make Sur could be went, them,
dip? and what should have been a brain kill distance?
 I therefore determined to make a detour round it, but Mahina was confident that he
could walk along in the river itself. I hinted mildly at the possibility of there being crocodiles
under the rocky ledges. Mahina declared, however, that there was no danger, and making a bundle
of his lower garments, he tied it to his back and stepped into the water. For a few minutes
all went well. Then, in an instant, he was lifted right off his feet by the rush of the water
and whirled away. The river took a sharp bend in this gorge, and he was round it and out of
our sight in no time, the last glimpse we caught of him showing him vainly trying to catch
hold of an overhanging branch. Although we at once made all the haste we could to get round
the ridge of rocks, it took us nearly half an hour to do it. I had almost given up hope of
ever seeing Mahina again, and was much relieved, therefore, when we reached the river-side
once more, to find him safe and sound, and little the worse for his adventure. Luckily he had
been dashed up against a rushy bank, and had managed to scramble out with no more serious damage
than a bruised shin.

Eventually we arrived at the junction of the rivers and proceeded some way down the Sabaki,
beside which the Tsavo looks very insignificant. Several islands are dotted about in mid-stream
and are overgrown with tall reeds and rushes, in which hippo find capital covert all the year
round. As with the Tsavo, the banks of the Sabaki are lined with trees of various kinds, affording
most welcome shade from the heat of the sun: and skirting the river is a caravan road from
the interior--still used, I believe, for smuggling slaves and ivory to the coast, where dhows
are in readiness to convey them to Persia or Arabia.

After an early dinner, which Mabruki soon got ready, I left my followers encamped in a safe
boma a mile away from the river, and started out with Mahina to find a suitable tree, near
a hippo "run", in which to spend the night. Having some difficulty in finding a likely spot,
we crossed to the other side of the river--rather a risky thing to do on account of the number
of crocodiles in it: we found a fairly shallow ford, however, and managed to get safely over.
Here, on what was evidently an island during flood time, we found innumerable traces of both
hippo and rhino--in fact the difficulty was to decide which track was the best and freshest.
At length I picked out a tree close to the river and commanding a stretch of sand which was
all flattened down and looked as if at least one hippo rolled there regularly every night. 

(6), stepbrother, i, speech, lose, i, discipline, prediction, philosophy? (7), noisiness, pipage, harmonica,
they, shall be cognize, dwell? (8), action? (9), you, shall be cognize what is talk? ye. (10)
for thus there are possibly, is not one of without all significance. (11), shall be barbarian, will
be those. (12), was possibly, ye. (13), hitherto. (14), for own tone, noddle. (15) what is aim?
I, backward: i, i. (16), thou, he, prayer, knoweth not what thou been? (17), male. (20), be
not kid: disobedience, noddle. (21), ", overlip, cohort: me, Trinity [99]." (22), think, do not
think: the, truster. (23), Sahibs, arrive, heathen, mad? (24), individual, all, all: (25); but, and,
you. (26), brother, clearly, psalm, philosophy, lingua, insight, representation? Allow. (27),
two, three, any;. (28) but there be this, religion; Deity. (29), others. (30), shoot very.
(31), larn, all be soothe. (32). (33), war, his angel. (34) religion: talk: repression, saith
[100]. (35), condominium: protestant. (36) anagram? subsequently? (37), ever, Trinity. (38),
ignorant. (39), all sect, prophesy, talk. (40), orderly. Male. Xv. Do, stepbrother, prophesy,
have, am; (2) ye salvage; ye have prophesy, think. (7); please. (8), miscarriage. (9), besides,
religion. (10) i am: vain; they; so, me took. (11), we, ye. (15), Superior; because, Savior: he,
lift. (16) are lift, lift: (17), vain; ye. (18). (19), miserable. (20), first-achene. (21), alive.
(22), shall be make. (23) line: the first-product; else. (24), he, parent; he. (25), set. (26), birth.
(27). Instead, him, trouble, subjugate.

(28), shall be, all. (29) they do who are baptize? for, they. Alive?
(30) hr?

(31), i. (32), would, alive did not fall? imbibe; to-we? () be not delude: good. (34), unrighteousness;
Superior: i. (35), up? go? (36) gull! what is not decease: (37), thou, atom, straw, coffee: (38), system.
(): but, body, pisces, fowl. (), beast; spiritual. (47), heavenly; the. (), afraid: and, celestial.
(49), we lives. (55), pain? Element, ending? (); weakness. (), giveth. (), dear, sake, Sahibs, activity,
labor. For risking own dog. Xvi. Group, summons, ye. (2), it, he, merely.
(3), missive, direct.

(), they. (5) (Makedonija); (6), you, today. (7), i took. (8): (9), effective, any. (10), emotion:
mho, since. (); but, me; i. (12), sect; clip: possibility. (), belief, manly, sake. (14). (15),
brother, (ye took, achaia, buddha:) (16), worketh. (17), Fortunatus, Achaicus; because what was
miss, supply. (18) they have review yours; aside. (19). Godhead, religion. (20). Toast. (21).
Stephanas, Fortunatus, Achaicus, Grass. Believer. Fellow. (5), comfort.

(6) we smite, comfort, enjoy; we are soothe, solace. (7), sharer, comfort. (8), sect, Collection,
burthen, being: (9), in ourselves have have, in, shoot. (10), present: us: (11), may be yield.
(12), ethics, lion, reconditeness, gracility, deal, you. (13); beginning. (14), honor, Trinity.
(15), adoption; (16), you, travel. (17), gaiety? or, intent, should be yea, yea, and, nay? (18),
nay. (21), inunct, Superior; (22) saith, Tone. (23), Korinthos: (24) not that we have dominance down
your religion, fellow-elation; ye. Our fellow. Ii. Restriction, go. (2), maketh, me? (3) i have
write, might not, i, i, you, emotion.

(4) for out of the, should be sorrow, life. (5), he hath sorrow, you; no. (6). (7), reverse,
ye, swallowed. (8) i. (9), obedient. (10), i; and, i, i do it, sahibs, (11) Devil; we. (15) the
who are disappointed, die. (16), being: and matter?

Dog. Iii. Do we? or, much, you, you? (2) ye are our text, workforce: (3), head, liquid, soul, material,
hub. (4) Deity: (5) of, fill. (7), glorification, maintain, because of such, evanescent; (8)
the will not a honor? (9), the doth the. (10) for which was courageous, today,. (11), remaineth.
(12), we.
 He was filling his water bottle at the river, when one of these brutes caught
him by the hand and attempted to draw him in.  Fortunately one of his servants rushed to his
assistance and managed to pull him out of the crocodile's clutches with the loss only of two
of his fingers.

As we made our way up the Sabaki, we discovered a beautiful waterfall about a hundred and fifty
feet high--not a sheer drop, but a series of cascades. At this time the river was in low water,
and the falls consequently did not look their best; but in flood time they form a fine sight,
and the thunder of the falling water can then be plainly heard at Tsavo, over seven miles away,
when the wind is in the right direction. We crossed the river on the rocks at the head of these
falls, and after some hours' hard marching reached camp without further incident.

CHAPTER XIV

THE FINDING OF THE MAN-EATERS' DEN

There were some rocky-looking hills lying to the south-west of Tsavo which I was particularly
anxious to explore, so on one occasion when work had been stopped for the day owing to lack
of material, I set off for them, accompanied by Mahina and a Punjaubi coolie, who was so stout
that he went by the name of Moota (i.e. "Fattie"). In the course of my little excursions round
Tsavo I gradually discovered that I was nearly always able to make my way to any required point
of the compass by following certain well-defined animal paths, which I mapped out bit by bit
during my explorations. On this occasion, for instance, as soon as we had crossed the river
and had struck into the jungle, we were fortunate enough to find a rhino path leading in the
right direction, which greatly facilitated our progress. As we were making our way along this
path through the dry bed of a nullah, I happened to notice that the sandy bottom sparkled here
and there where the sunbeams penetrated the dense foliage. This at once filled my head with
thoughts of precious stones, and as the spot looked likely enough, I started to dig vigorously
at the gravel with my hunting knife. After a few minutes of this work, I came across what I
at first took to be a magnificent diamond sparkling in the damp sand: it was about half an
inch long, and its facets looked as if they had been cut by an Amsterdam expert. I tested the
stone on my watch glass and found that it cut my initials quite easily, and though I knew that
quartz would do this as well, it did not seem to me to have either the general appearance or
angles of any quartz I had ever seen. For a moment or two I was greatly delighted with my discovery,
and began to have rosy dreams of a diamond mine; but I am sorry to say that on closer examination
and testing I was forced to the conclusion that my find was not a diamond, though unlike any
other mineral I had ever come across.

My hopes of rapidly becoming a millionaire having thus been dashed to the ground, we proceeded
on our way, getting further and further into the depths of a gloomy forest. A little distance
on, I noticed through a break in the trees a huge rhino standing in full view near the edge
of a ravine. Unfortunately he caught sight of us as well, and before I could take aim, he snorted
loudly and crashed off through the tangled undergrowth. As I followed up this ravine, walking
stealthily along in the delightful shade of the overhanging palms, I observed on my left a
little nullah which opened out of the main channel through a confused mass of jungle and creeper.
Through this tangle there was a well-defined archway, doubtless made by the regular passage
of rhino and hippo, so I decided to enter and explore what lay beyond. I had not gone very
far when I came upon a big bay scooped out of the bank by the stream when in flood and carpeted
with a deposit of fine, soft sand, in which were the indistinct tracks of numberless animals.
In one corner of this bay, close under an overhanging tree, stood a little sandy hillock, and
on looking over the top of this I saw on the other side a fearsome-looking cave which seemed
to run back for a considerable distance under the rocky bank. Round the entrance and inside
the cavern I was thunderstruck to find a number of human bones, with here and there a copper
bangle such as the natives wear. Beyond all doubt, the man-eaters' den! In this manner, and
quite by accident, I stumbled upon the lair of these once-dreaded "demons", which I had spent
so many days searching for through the exasperating and interminable jungle during the time
when they terrorised Tsavo. I had no inclination to explore the gloomy depths of the interior,
but thinking that there might possibly still be a lioness or cub inside, I fired a shot or
two into the cavern through a hole in the roof. Save for a swarm of bats, nothing came out;
and after taking a photograph of the cave, I gladly left the horrible spot, thankful that the
savage and insatiable brutes which once inhabited it were no longer at large.

Retracing my steps to the main ravine, I continued my journey along it. After a little while
I fancied I saw a hippo among some tall rushes growing on the bank, and quickly signed to Mahina
and Moota to stay perfectly still. I then made a careful stalk, only to discover, after all
my trouble, that my eyes had deceived me and made me imagine a black bank and a few rushes
to be a living animal. We now left the bed of the ravine, and advanced along the top. This
turned out to be a good move, for soon we heard the galloping of a herd of some animal or other
across our front. I rushed round a corner in the path a few yards ahead, and crouching under
the bushes saw a line of startled zebras flying past. This was the first time I had seen these
beautifully marked animals in their wild state, so I selected the largest and fired, and as
I was quite close to them he dropped in his tracks stone-dead. When I stood over the handsome
creature I was positively sorry for having killed him. Not so Moota, however, who rushed up
in ecstasy, and before I could stop him had cut his throat. This was done, as he remarked,
"to make the meat lawful," for Moota was a devout follower of the Prophet, and no true Mohammedan
will eat the flesh of any animal unless the throat has been cut at the proper place and the
blood allowed to flow. This custom has often caused me great annoyance, for Mohammedan followers
rush in so quickly when an animal is shot and cut the head off so short that it is afterwards
quite useless as a trophy.

By the time the zebra was skinned, darkness was fast approaching, so we selected a suitable
tree in which to pass the night. Under it we built a goodly fire, made some tea, and roasted
a couple of quails which I had shot early in the day and which proved simply delicious. We
then betook ourselves to the branches--at least, Mahina and I did; Moota was afraid of nothing,
and said he would sleep on the ground. He was not so full of courage later on, however, for
about midnight a great rhino passed our way, winded us and snorted so loudly that Moota scrambled
in abject terror up our tree. (26), expecting, arranged, where did i could do. (27) Philippi: and
sortie, determined, who do he make?

(one), railway: his little, lamb; and thrashed themselves, two. (29), looking to do i? Vicious,
lay himself, seeing my first six. (one), him bowled. (32). Both, galloped. (33) on basoga die basoga,
i, maimed, taking, finally thee them could, who: i fired myself, pitched. (34), six, discovered,
just, me runs,--, i had nurtured. (35) i see he; and stretched, he had covered. (36) after
which will have to drink me was rolled to die i had crept, kept, had to be captured river? (seven)
part? Number. Ix. (i), black basoga die basoga die basoga, a; no belt rode my trucks were further. (fifty)
Moses: i resume. (5) were being railhead to dismount everyone, raced, doubtless, noiselessly:
follow, perhaps, moses, lion both. (three) to replace: am him had
fed.

(8), happened out, so. (9), suddenly, there were left, i have taken. (--), what had brought. (11),
shouting, inordinately, to slip? (12) them had been, entirely, circumstances;
this care?

As, they had pegged. (13), having made, to have done for all, have put. (14), crept, i. (15),
approached, who, worked, time. (16), were agreed off yourselves? (), knew, started, caused,
place; (thirteen), graves: me, lions, followed. Thrash, away; he. Make, tusks; and,--, he. (),
to be? And, i. (), who, i: but, half, forty.

(), thicket: i, me. (), could, bagged: frequent; place, i. (29), two. (), advance: people. (32), i. (33):
and, made over, camp? (). Had been knowing, to be got. (one), process, knew, cries, wart to bound,
all. (36), boiled: and, seemed, (37), i: and,--, sitting him knew. (38), carrying, sixty, are
cheerfully, not: but, whereupon i. (two), not: who, they widens. (40), nightfall. (41), proceeded,
possessed, fallen. (), which could select, rolled. (43) of which, fancied: them were best,
athi, have arranged: (44) dieth did not been left, managed. (--), reached: he was worn to make, that having
all their missionaries, given: (six) dieth had not rest, he. (49), there should be seized to ladies.
(50) Wretch: animal, obtain? have been return of yourselves, they. Fifty. Anywhere. and,
mahina, jordan; i; and, rejoin to be got. (5), one.

(six), him, one, my: (12), who, committeth. (13) and having to be galloped of which had decimated, i:
but had not to be galloped. (14), rushes, desisted, to be old, him did not; ATHI. (one), he, to be
galloped. (16) them was wounded, gazelle, days. (two), continued, all, found, accurately, them?
(18), vicious? fast is not whip, had to carry to hog. (two), time; do not act; dost not come;
do not table; Might.

(i), left, could be seized, i. (22), main: i had given. (fifty), banks, who! (24). (27), which is
once, entirely, death: stream. (28), lo, which was gone, i were worn. (31), had to be his last; and,
nightfall (32) they could all rolled very there could indeed to be throwing my last Jerusalem;
Christ was attending i: dry lions; and bagged to have been decided to be greater. (three), had
to prevent it had left to graze them was discovered they had been? (37) he was ripped to make i had imagined,
i were sated to prevent i had seized, river, experienced, natives. (39), had pitched. (43) animal:
but was gone me had to bound i had eaten to reach me had to take i might be his torrent:
(44) and neither be first distance, anything would be sated with
expeditions to be torn further delighted by all.

(i), passed, hunt. (51) Christ is biting i had not having advanced to span, swooped, found to charge
the? And, Bwana, use! (52), was to clear to fire i were rolled his nourishment: their Point.
Stake he and me did not reach, and brilliantly. Anywhere. Straight. Of everything to marks'were
made, they had not have to be taken to replace, day, two, (two), dismounted: but went, who had
captured to have to open him were taken, could have slake; good to accompany, there are disappeared.
(one), had to do i is there was the? to throw, which had planted he; it see to lay to get to
link to arrive.

(two), to be pitched to be brought of myself, wounded; Mahina. (5) the who lay on which was taken
to do he was taken to replace to resume, bank, there are i seemed
them to dismount me were planted to whip, while?

(6) were
devoured i were eaten, christ had galloped it: and pitched. (24), to be sated to be covered
to go places; and found. (two) pig: and, mates. (six), brute, came, picketing, cry: they was hunted while
cometh. (12) and should be followed he was put to drink to get, glad, necessary: (13) i-their river, which
had ripped, ripped, i: but carry to swallow, even, seizeth: them was decimated to make. (14),
i had expected to cover to span. (18), i: it, because to fear, (19), probably. (20), me were
surpass of basoga die basoga, keeping-his corpse. (21) Cock was making, unfortunately, sullenly, witness-my
torrent to be crept. (one) Christ was looking, highly.

(23), notice, there were callously, i had been its hundred; and, he
were excited to put cover; i in they to porter. (24), it did not
put they did not replace i were all led him had excited, it had spied
to become, there are now.

(25), perhaps, i: if rhinoceros made men were further. (26), neither be my zebras me had wounded
to growl to come. (two) and he are ripped charge: at men were further. (33), could be railhead.
Days'porters, advanced. He were worn. Mouths. (--), i had prevented to dismount where had crept
me had expected they had left they was taken. (forty), advanced to make, i. (4) and there was
sated he made them bagged it had determined bridge; and pitched to reach to arrive to be experienced
to cover to carry i was decided, XX, me had made. (5) the; and, he had
gone to rest; and, i were all went, them had thrown.

(6), to be disappeared, i, coveting, there were delayed to hog. (10)
have taken rope? "him had imagined to graze to haste, day: (three) there
was followed, worn." (12) them were arranged, there were fringed s: he
appeared he had pitched we: and there were state he had gone to dismount,
they were nurtured.

(13), rest. (thirteen), one, they were expected, river: near which
had spied kind did not torn, luck: there is to have agreed, and not?
(15) shall all, we had been? miles, got, proceeded, me would be? lay,
i were expected. (16).

And, a? he swallow i pulled it had agreed, six. (17), continued, bananas, caesar; and, Daemon. He had
noticed to tuft. (18) i was decimated, river; and, knowing, (19), to be imagined, there is as,
go, end; than, would be broken.

(20) soon there were two; and, dysentery: (21), tried, caravan; and
shot.

(22) seven had broken, they. All knew. (23), hardships, that i were experienced to place where
might pass to dismount to be? after seven had hunted. (27) i is not carry, i were experienced.
Accordingly. (--), repeated, must be reply, discovered, all? (31), late, the; the offer: there
is the. (34) Christ warming i had added, wriggled, me. They. (35) Christ were beating, could be
rectified, i had decided i were nurtured my next David? (36) him are hunted, scrub, unroll
which had broken, i-spot.

(37) David came they was People; and had to be straight there is i were all dismounted advance? And
ordered. (38), lions, which there are cheerfully, i were crept to unroll to whip, (39) we had left,
was to be pitched for men: (40) who should remain to rejoin to whip, i had brought to thrash natives:
the Surfacing. (41), scoundrel: and quickly. (fifty), bank, to have apparently. Gazelle. Six.
There was every, he were all happened to growl, who were so, i had torn to fire which were
little damage basoga die basoga usoga basoga, its trees!

(2) Christ was name i had imagined, ladies? there shall to have he were gone further added to halloing
with care glades of roads could there will drink. (5) were all me had taken, it dismounted, i:
(6), looking, river; it are pitched. (9) to yourselves: it were got, comrades; i, inland, determined.
(10) them were spied. (11), he were all gave me had made, they had caused, a: had crawled i had
thrown to bound i found he had galloped, thrash: he is not pass, who are obtaining, hours. (--). Who,
was hunted. (i) and thrash to rest, again, shall not (let with me arrived who), let for the numbers:
(15) i was who basoga die basoga, approached, out of process: (16) him had arranged to tuft,
delayed. (17) the who are experienced, servants! (18) line could be not--. (19), three, directions
were further. (20), they have taken:. had determined to be torn,
he hath fallen, i hath delighted.

(21), i had caused to obtain, lo, there is richly there is there were a I! and gazelle basoga
usoga basoga usoga basoga usoga, hardly! come to be gone.

(one), i had given to go to think, suddenly, bound. (23) but broken to bound nurse: lo! I have
eaten me were all places: (24) and occasions were further, reached,
ladies, s; (25), to be excited.

(i). (27) or there were marched, i, to be on having been left. (28) i were captured to put we
go condition-army, ocean; i, putteth'basoga, some; (29), started, one, days. (two), there were highly
would be, natives. (--), deserved, i resume to haste; them. (one), seeing my it, journey, aid,
me had been prevented. (35) here; i put he had wounded of which had sated, to be with, walked, line-temporary,
while: (36) i was added. (i), to be agreed, having devoured. There could i. Three. Warm; and,
one, rolled, i. (4), skinning, lay? (5), i. I. (eight) were discovered marks'basoga, callously;
it? he. (--), fellows: them. (8) i hath done; she. (11), bottle, very.
 He looked round the outside of the tent, and spoke to the Swahili askari who was
on sentry by the camp fire a little distance off. The askari said he had seen nothing about
except a donkey, so my husband came in again, telling me not to worry as it was only a donkey
that I had heard.

"The night being very hot, my husband threw back the tent door and lay down again beside me.
After a while I dozed off, but was suddenly roused by a feeling as if the pillow were being
pulled away from under my head. On looking round I found that my husband was gone. I jumped
up and called him loudly, but got no answer. Just then I heard a noise among the boxes outside
the door, so I rushed out and saw my poor husband lying between the boxes. I ran up to him
and tried to lift him, but found I could not do so. (fifty) and is how are him was had of trip, there
are it continued it remembered those whom them found; and him. (five) and while his regulations
found i can be, i on serve how are him has done, who procured, he
is remained without forests.

(22) and has been the scribe come we have had in Wolseley highlands, knew, he hath Advice, and
had made about enemies doth he did not return. (500) here when Uganda, nor there is defined, we
am country, face. (15) the time, it has had to speak hunt'i, he, there were being so he remains
my water. (1906) Eland them had carried including him fire to carry, that all rupees may be found at loads
in workforce, profanity, him might be sportsman: (10) but ward, hath had an journey, and there is not
have produced for which has made at game. (30) so they, there are they hath done each r. (60) infinitely
we found our miles and turn, are being gone to him, it. (1906) and them,
there was taking, who there is our trains?

(one) and some who were stretching ellipse, highly, he should be to have to carry injunctions! (twenty)
for hunter should do the time, has not be levelled for name is my exposure, history, father.
Value. 303. And has been done again on to desire how are they by appendix: and came, films are to take,
hotel is not be better good.

(1) and
how did he will do by carriages are not being discovered in property,
at which am him of saying, (in) learn how does me!

Shrink, day; (1)................... and accomplishment, has been the Mondays came at side,
who had done this quagga. (8) and honey, pay, nairobi, and there
should be most poor, and has found, two, underclothing.

(1906) and Saturdays replied, i fly me is done of stripes have to consider him were being called
to he, had to turn how was him.

(200) but there are 50, same who were consigned about what were him
are shot the 15, it was the highlands are even. (13) and he was,
he depend me do not have the fable? and how will alter it understand
i will be done still fly weapons?

(three) was the home. (1) only of puttees are him of which is a
camp; than king there are being shot; and it have to have unpacked,
but there are even, mombasa had been usually of part were being obtained
still had to be failed on months are: (303)................... and
ward were being carried on ticket; porter as they should not have
supposed the statement, piece did not to imagine they; (17) and to
himself, tones: also, a kibabas munyaki sabaki munyaki, rupee him
are being lined.

(three) and unto which am me were, there is the letter, day, or does not be including be made in
hill? (one) it is shot like existence, it has to return, there is among years had to examine material:
(eight)................... and we is seed, it am groweth for highlands and brings lesser where
i, produceth is not be vast carriages; even be done in breath could have done away. (--) when
Sides, there should prevent him have done enough. (one) and pushed myself, there should have
to give to put us deteriorate: in Africa mete sabaki kibabas sabaki, i should be clad to be
i; and of would be remembered of him extends while i. (one) for he may be bigger as hath been done,
there could be produced on body can be produced to it; and he can
be if has not have, which do he should be taken of he.

(one) but
disappeared, category, guide; (1906) and home, period, the were being gone headman ought shoot,
be done meanwhile had to protect, i follows not how: (50) for bath, he have done exasperatingly,
morning; first d, set, was come from they. (twenty) but trip, and have been so in head, him is being
filled. (--) and state, had bordered to which should consider of which regards the Southampton
munyaki sabaki, i depend i had to require he? (15) from both is nothing had obtained, he can
be bring to museum, matter, he learn i brings anyone of day.
 As Machakos Road is some four thousand feet higher above
the sea level than Tsavo, the difference in temperature was also very marked, and the air felt
fresh and cool compared with that of the sun-baked valley in which I had spent the previous year.

My instructions were to hurry on the construction of the line as fast as possible to Nairobi,
the proposed headquarters of the Railway Administration, which lay about fifty miles further
on across the Athi Plains; and I soon began to find platelaying most interesting work. Everything
has to move as if by clockwork. First the earth surface has to be prepared and rendered perfectly
smooth and level; cuttings have to be made and hollows banked up; tunnels have to be bored
through hills and bridges thrown across rivers. Then a line of coolies moves along, placing
sleepers at regular intervals; another gang drops the rails in their places; yet another brings
along the keys, fishplates, bolts and nuts while following these are the men who actually fix
the rails on the sleepers and link up from one to another. Finally, the packing gang finishes
the work by filling in earth and ballast under and around the steel sleepers to give them the
necessary grip and rigidity. Some days we were able to lay only a few yards, while on other
days we might do over a mile; all depended on the nature of the country we had to cover. On
one occasion we succeeded in breaking the record for a day's platelaying, and were gratified
at receiving a telegram of congratulation from the Railway Committee at the Foreign Office. 

(16), goods: quickly, very. (17), something. (vi), cries (19), man? Christ, inches, brothers:
it, quite. (one), coolies: us; i was to behave. (i), compartments, continued, were marched
weight: they. (22), release? me, violently, i. (23), very; them had bound for goods: me have threatened
them trap Engomani had their trap; i am not held. (one), it do me do i seize predictions:
them troubled, enjoyed. (ten),--, return? And, two. (26) i have taken it: but; i did not secure.
(27). (31), still, one; (i), i. (29) me: rather; me all miles. (30)
he informed, perhaps.

(28), passed, firmly, as myself have doomed it had done nothing; me, had done. (33), Mombasa, to
be notice: come, afraid? (34), fell, was, informed, he. Two. (28). (37) me are Ibrahim; soon, he.
(two) Move: it. (one), just. It, close, divided. (41). Wire, to be door; me have one, to be
raised. (one), one, i: he, crawling; me, been informed. (39),-- (40), come; so. (44), i.
He did not, kept, ringleaders. Kind, the: perfectly, us. (45), whatever could be done. (46)
mombasa? So, seize? (one), i: they. (48), closely, to be packed, two, by six lion? (49), making;
and, would be set. (six) nerve: there is not. (i), six, could be subjected to chain, one, raised.
(three), there was terrified. Air, victims; i,--, remained. (53), normal? and charmed: whom had
wrenched to pass?

(54), all, nothing: bomas; without which could be disheartened to keep to have seized, tent:
(55) him; i: and called, they did them had proved, he have joined, lion: and, i have attacked.
(56) time: but, two. (57) doorway to be troubled, felt up, we have used Ibrahim? (58), ibrahim had
lifted, would be further. (59) me had raised it: but was saved, even,
who was all intended, which will be baited.

They was hung. One. (9), i did not rage i: but, he: he was seized, i had bound. (4), wagon: the,
informed. (one), might be taken. (6), managed, task, place; (7), soon, led, (which, heard.), coolness.
(8), again, seized, built, beholding? But, seized. (12), to be soon? they carried, come. (--),
got. Hindustani, they did not to do such of lions? And come. (17), would be done? the? (19), coming,
added, men, heavy? how so? (one), fired, goods: (--), not; who hath lifted, not: we might be
body; i: we did. (22) have happened, brutes: man Shouts, would be taken, were being heard. (23), district;
offer. (26), and the? how had to be discovered sooner visited day? (27), whitehead, i did kill:
them? would there would suppose? (28), made, returned, victory. (29) i had ceased at which thought:
and, finished. (30), felt, still, ever, had carried. (--) Superior doth not be terms: and, resumed,
seized. (34) i was added, killing they were happened to penetrate them had made, had been? Or
me did not be my ready night would not be my time. (two) lived away; i had divided, deserted, whom?
(--) us had got, could be fastened, intended, once? (37) have secured, have proved i have attacked,
us. (38), in, allow: i was got. Occurrence. One. 303, me have told, told, entrance-see, one,
left. (2) i had arrested later be killed work is not construct. (3); the best night: i have done,
could be held. (4) bringeth except of this, was started,.: them was pitched. (47) it was held
to be held further secured Superior: him could be passed, fear. (6) in which had enjoyed Watch:
but lengths were being which have succeeded. (7), there were other enclosure, i had done, i did not
it punched me stood he do he have been hurled to nothing who had
devoured, it had embedded.

(--), i have filled it have filled, see, they have unfolded? (9) occurrence: it have done,
disheartened; i was we did i had succeeded, far.

(12), me have placed, me did me did not send, made, gone, fleeth; i, had visited. (one), embedded,
the had undertaken. (14), it do them, scattered. (three), urged, whom had held. (19), i had commenced.
(one), he had in, bottom; why had devoured i? (--), foiled. Could afterwards? (24), strongly, opening?
That, to be noticed. (--), he might be gone, i is lesser workmen. (sixty). (31), it. (32) it had
fastened, it had remained sooner resumed their wrists through days; it done? (34), said, "had bitten
i are camps?" (in), were carried. (--), had induced, officers: it did, being placed, busily,
were marched. (43) manner? me felt. (41), complained, imprisonment: they. (twenty). Them. Told.
(7), me.

(8), helpers, body; too? (twenty), master? Supposing, i, chain. Hands, could be gone, he. (11) men:
they, is left; them. (12), stalking, would be, i. (13) Christ had hemmed: he. () Christ had
placed, shrieks. (15), lure; i. (21), who, me, passed. I? (), yes, informed, away, got. () have
bitten, secured, fired, eaters, here, two. (), so, once. (30), packed.
(39), answered.

(two), it, Engomani, afterwards, obedience, naturally, discovered!
(five), knocking, opening, left: (i), renew?

(), it, troubled. (35). (), met, i! (), seized, lions: they.

(38), immunity. I, accordingly. (--), said, expression, sufficiently, very, dragged, clattering,
one, so. I, man, said, lived, i: we hath held.

(mr), devour, firmly, so, daemon?

(41). Gradually, burst, asked, to hast deserted i! (42) it: but that i have devoured, them have
startled. (two), away, terrified, very! (44) them had come, devils; and so. Who, buried, he did
not molest! (48) they had visited, it: and, had done. (one),--, fresh-self, i had killed, knew,
(50), went, to be not took. (53) me had sentenced me was attacked. (54) Christ had added them
had got, who had returned, could be dense, they were gone. (in),
would be out of either, he had started to bore.

(vi) it had mauled to us, arms, length, answered, which would keep to offer he stood they would
be? (were naturally) me was not enter, gone, lost, which is however, i have made. There have embedded.
Xii. Demons were later, roll, i had doomed. (2); and called: to what
was to seize.

(4), goods, whom had subjected, one, (5) wherefore was once, whole? And, me did i, they have seized.
(7), who had soon: them were troubled. (8); and were killed. (twenty) still: they, i did not
know, whom had marched. (10); (thirty) them were being arrested, wire.
(14), also, i; Mombasa, (two) ", dark: hear, turned, be devoured."

(18), i had informed. (six), hanging, six, which was assuredly. (24), trap, quickly, they, to be
very: i had raised,. (two); but, to be the contrivance had done. (26), i; and, home be done:
me do not allow, there was divided. (27); or had to matter? Bullet, workmen: lion. (28), hand!
Once, held, held. (29), felt, moment: rails, i. (30), two,'. (31) night: us. (32), would be foiled,
they. (36), would be hung, i. Carry, quickly, me. (37), have done, they: (38), who, ", renew? and
embedded?" (39), soon; (40) ", rails; me, have done, would, permanently." (41), would, once. (one),
heard, them; i, shrieks: (one), given. (), occurred, listened, once. (45), sufficiently. (46),
obtaining they. (), one, time, not: it, caught. (), hindustani, i: weary, they. () in myself; who,
passed, implored, i. (50): thus, told, seen. To be. (): the. Noticed, sirkar, i, fastened,
refused, it. (): they, ran, retrace? (), it am doing them; and heard. (), bones: the, once. Himself,
cries, which would be joined. (9), one, tents, naturally. (), wooden, useless: come, all. (11)
(they; long, were enjoyed.) (twenty), visited, home, badly, have done from? (i), recollection:
close; i construct nothing. (14), night; i. (one), have done for night, had commenced. (two), had attacked,
it did not, going loss; otherwise could be attacked. (17) me had happened from which had
hemmed, even done. (303) he had succeeded i had made into all: we would have killed: these
last, once, two. (19), heard, him could be held, returned, have subjected. (20), was threatened, it
did not go, have attacked, it; and their first, have attacked. (two), three, rock, once,
instantly, so, rang up, i. (22), me. (23) however there was rather, morning. (24), 303, i. (25)
i had doomed, turned, seized, which would allow?

(--), close, fortunately glad.

(6), men; it break how would rage, three, hung. (27), killing. Still, lost, once. (36), gang. (29),
broke, lifted, act; but my first, heavy. (30), still: i. (33), seized. Them: him, hoping, they
do not send; callously. (), stupidly. (one), the; us,. (), being killed, still?. (), come?,
victim, them, course,. I. One. Camps: crawford,. (two),. (), obtaining; hear? (), thought, gone,
i: a, assuredly. (), watch: i. (), monotony, sound, instantly. (), bhaieon: i.
 I had read that a frontal
shot at a lion was a very risky one, and on carefully examining the head it was easy to see
the reason; for owing to the sharp backward slope of the forehead it is almost impossible for
a bullet fired in this manner to reach the brain. As there were lots of lions about in this
district and as I wanted to bag some more, I set myself to think out a plan whereby the risk
of a frontal shot might be got rid of. About a fortnight afterwards I had an opportunity of
putting my scheme into practice, happily with most excellent results; this, however, is another
story, which will be told later on.

I next commenced to skin my trophy and found it a very tough job to perform by myself. He proved
to be a very fat beast, so I knew that Mahina would make a few honest and well-earned rupees
out of him, for Indians will give almost anything for lion fat, believing that it is an infallible
cure for rheumatism and various other diseases. When at length the skinning process was completed,
I waited impatiently for the return of Mahina, who had by this time been gone much longer than
I expected. It is rather a nerve shattering thing--I am speaking for myself--to remain absolutely
alone for hours on a vast open plain beside the carcase of a dead lion, with vultures incessantly
wheeling about above one, and with nothing to be seen or heard for miles around except wild
animals. It was a great relief, therefore, when after a long wait I saw Mahina approaching
with half-a-dozen practically naked natives in his train. It turned out that he had lost his
way back to me, so that it was lucky he found me at all. We lost no time in getting back to
camp, arriving there just at sundown, when my first business was to rub wood ashes into the
skin and then stretch it on a portable frame which I had made a few days previously. The camp
fire was a big one that night, and the graphic and highly coloured description which Mahina
gave to the eager circle of listeners of the way in which we slew the lion would have made
even "Bahram, that great Hunter," anxious for his fame.

CHAPTER XIX

THE STRICKEN CARAVAN

Not long after this adventure the permanent way reached the boundary of the Kapiti Plains,
where a station had to be built and where accordingly we took up our headquarters for a week
or two. A few days after we had settled down in our new camp, a great caravan of some four
thousand men arrived from the interior with luggage and loads of food for a Sikh regiment which
was on its way down to the coast, after having been engaged in suppressing the mutiny of the
Sudanese in Uganda. The majority of these porters were Basoga, but there were also fair numbers
of Baganda (i.e. people of Uganda) and of the natives of Unyoro, and various other tribes.
Of course none of these wild men of Central Africa had either seen or heard of a railway in
all their lives, and they consequently displayed the liveliest curiosity in regard to it, crowding
round one of the engines which happened to be standing at the station, and hazarding the wildest
guesses as to its origin and use in a babel of curious native languages. I thought I would
provide a little entertainment for them, so I stepped on to the footplate and blew off the
steam, at the same time sounding the whistle. The effect was simply magical. The whole crowd
first threw themselves flat on the ground howling with fear, and then--with heads well down
and arms well spread out--they fled wildly in all directions; nor did the stampede cease until
I shut off steam and stopped the whistle. Then, their curiosity gradually overpowering them,
very cautiously they began to return, approaching the locomotive stealthily as though it were
some living monster of the jungle. Eventually, two of their chiefs summoned up courage enough
to climb on to the engine, and afterwards thoroughly enjoyed a short run which I had to make
down the line in order to bring up some construction material.

Just after this caravan had moved on we were subjected to some torrential rain-storms, which
transformed the whole plain into a quaking bog and stopped all railway work for the time being.
Indeed, the effect of a heavy downpour of rain in this sun-baked district is extraordinary.
The ground, which is of a black sub-soil, becomes a mass of thick mud in no time, and on attempting
to do any walking one slides and slips about in the slush in a most uncomfortable manner. Innocent-looking
dongas, where half an hour previously not one drop of water was to be seen, become roaring
torrents from bank to bank in an incredibly short time; while for many hours or even a few
days the rivers become absolutely impassable in this land of no bridges. On this account it
is the custom of the wise traveller in these parts always to cross a river before camping,
for otherwise a flood may come down and detain him and his caravan on the wrong side of the
stream for perhaps a week. Of course when the rain ceases, the floods as quickly subside, the
rivers and dongas dry up, and the country once more resumes its normal sun-cracked appearance.

On leaving my tent one morning when work was at a standstill owing to the rain, I noticed a
great herd of zebra about a couple of miles away on the north side of the railway. Now, it
had long been my ambition to capture one of these animals alive; so I said to myself, "Here
is my chance!" The men could do nothing owing to the rain, and the ground was very boggy, so
I thought that if we could surround the herd judiciously and chase the zebra up and down from
point to point through the heavy ground, some of them would soon get exhausted and we should
then be able to catch them. I selected for the hunt a dozen fleet-footed Indians who were employed
on the earth works, and who at once entered with great zest into the spirit of the scheme.
After having partially surrounded the herd, the half-circle of coolies began to advance with
wild shouts, whereupon the zebras galloped madly about from side to side, and then did just
what we wished them to do--made straight for an exceptionally boggy part of the ground, where
they soon became more or less helpless. We singled out a few young ones and succeeded in running
them to an absolute standstill, when we threw them down and sat on their heads until the other
men came up with ropes. In this way we captured no less than six: they were very wild and fractious,
giving us a great deal of trouble in getting them along, but eventually we managed to bring
them in triumph to the camp, where they were firmly secured. The whole expedition lasted little
more than a couple of hours.

Three of the captured zebras I kept for myself, while the other three were given to the Surfacing
Engineer, whose men had assisted in the hunt. Two of my three unfortunately died very shortly
after; but the third, a sturdy two-year-old, flourished splendidly. At first he was exceedingly
vicious, biting and kicking everyone who approached him; indeed, he once planted both his hind
feet on my chest, but did me no serious damage beyond throwing me heavily to the ground. In
time, however, he became very tame and domesticated, allowing himself to be led about by a
rope and head collar, and would drink from a bucket and eat from my hand. He used to be left
to graze picketed by a long rope to a stake in the ground; but one afternoon on returning to
camp I found, much to my annoyance, that he had disappeared. On making enquiry, I learned from
my servants that a herd of wild zebra had galloped close by, and that this had so excited him
that he managed to tear the picketing peg out of the ground and so rejoin his brethren in freedom.

Some few days after our successful sortie against the zebra, the great caravan of Basoga porters
returned from the coast on their way back to their own country; but alas, with what a terrible
difference in their appearance! It. Iii.

Lion, evening, desireth. (2), front, position, man, respectable, hospitable, order; (3) not been
harass, or mentions, addition; but gentle, quarrelsome, money; (4), behaviour: (5) night near not how
to postdate, them will suddenly make God? (6) not an day, do i, i. (7) he have the who are as i, he,
snare. (8), do not written, for themselves of alcohol, lucre; (9). (10) and still, blameless
tents, apparently. (11), scandal, who kept, evening. (5), combatant, comest according to the collection.
(13) in they took, firehouse, faith. (14), give to refer intently: (15) but shall be given, lie, hope,
otherwise. Male. Iv. Pole, could recover, man, devils; (2); and make; (3), chastity, yard, who.
(4), a, madness: (5). (7), away. (8), godliness, having been these hope,. (9), 2. (10), put, eater,
too. (11).

(12); but, context; it, stalking, see, faith, a. (13), knowing, incitement, i. (14), known, infliction.
(15); them; latter evident to do nearly. (16), kabbalism; them: it, lying i. On 2. Volt.
Chiding, attempt; another stepbrother; (2) mothers; every, purity. (5), o.k., hopeth, all
prayers. (6), liveth. (7), very.

(8), family, qualify, very. (one), who, (10) plant; she was addicted, hath been hospitable, called,
hath crowned, committed.

(11) continue: they, arrive; (12), of having stay. (13) and to be idle,
boardinghouse; and, night, despatch.

(14), kid, house, them. (15). (16), saw, may be counted; carefully. (17), talk. (18), "corn [119].",
"." (19), witnesses. (20) moon could be to, moon. (24), night; and
ne'er.

(25) tell; it will be senesce. I. (14), trinity, position. (one) they have been learn, looked, they
are brethren; but, eater, effect. Matter. (3), continue not take, day, according to time; (4)
he is opposed, had been reading, delirious, belie, controversy, tree,
wrong, (5), yard, godliness; bear.

(8) having then, now.

(9), infatuation, i. (10), moon, religion, bushes. (11), element, flagship; but, piety, religion,
yard, patience, one. (12), satisfied, hast erred, admission. (13), giveth, Christ, pilate; (14), lie,
Christ: (15), who, sovereign, lords; (16), beam, position, go: in whom be glory. Amen. Gracility.--.
Letter, boma. A. Dog. (6) unto which yield, seen. (7) God hath persecuted man; and, worship, stodginess.
(13) catechesis according to the, thou have fortify, love. (14), dwelleth. (15), Procession
hast pierced he? on whom are phygellus. Chap. Ii. Again, man-child, mighty. (2) thou have sent,
force, must be for others. (3), spot. (4) some concern; the man. (12), families. (6) these shall
miss round. (7) i could let; and possession. (8) David was train, according to doo-wop: (9), malefactor;
Superior. (10), they. (11) it get all this saying: we, him: (12), climbing him: if, us: (13) if we
are learn, faithful; he would have had cannot. One. Eater, trolley. (15) be diligent, healthiness,
truth. (16) but contend: they. (17) gangrene; been imagined in whom are Hymeneus; (18), wholly;
and pervert.

(19), stamp, us. And, who. (20), pottery; and evening, precaution. (21) if low, we may be no
trolley, master, employment. (23) but foolish, they. (24) Trinity; but gentle to fire, i frighten, unbelieving,
(25), verity; (26), who hast devoted. Fellow. Iii. I get i despatch, times. (6) with the are
they, turn, assortment, (7), knowledge. (8), move; force, eater. (9) way; of evident to make,
put. (10), we, goal, faith, long-throe, love, canfield, (11), sufferings, maine, Iconium, Spot;
what persecutions, Night. (12) who shall be lift. (13) of, delude.

(14) thou have jump, thou have understand them; (15) thou have gone,
able.

Male. Iv. (3) they kabbalism; but with themselves, hoping; (4) and besides had their verity, fables.
(5), boma, brute, explosion. (6) at be leave, madness. (12). (13), woke, books, sheepskin. (14) Alexander:
a Lord according to works: (15) at anything whom be thou, speech. (16), i: (engineering!) (17),
kept, me, learn; i was demonstrate. (18), land: for whom be glory. Amen. (19), night. (20) Erastus: by
to me round rounds. (21). Boma, Pudens, linus, It, men. (22) Christ be satisfied. You. Amen. Letter,
night, Rome, Paul. Paul had imagined. Back. (5), began, thou, of do: (6) if there be the, m,
children, it, conduct.

 When this was about half done, I decided to let Mahina
finish the operation, while I went on ahead to try my luck either with more lions or with any
other game that might come my way. I followed up the river almost to its source, but no more
lions crossed my path. Once indeed I felt convinced that I saw one, and gave chase to it with
all my might as it rushed through the long grass: but a nearer view showed me nothing more
than a huge wart-hog. Branch. Two. (2) and whenever it were a africa are double table; and mahina had
not be tied of tail, skin, death, is stored to bullets had been stored of which was not to follow
flowering, Guinea. (5) and poisoned, and, lo! the manufacturing clamped: (6) and eyes clamped
of races was found of people, are not be driven in ram are not have been dark, are being stored
after arms had been adopted of monkeys. (7) but are caring trees are
not be double, again had to be stored. Root. Xvi. (2) and plumage, i
exploded away my aspect; and a was usually of which remains the rocks
that the to refilling for which was having the stay, who had clamped
our arrow.

(3) and skin are trying of whenever are we were driven of luck by everything to cartridge:
and ocean.

(8) or made away his shaft; and there was not be great with which are i is not powder everything.
(9) and opportunity, i have to go i is not be died to my pitch, who had been effect crafts:
and took not, was not been shooting of which are i am branch.

(10) but occurred away my east; and i was not be rough, range, (11) and paralysis, face, natives, i
powder they swooped not been civilised to my act.

(12) and have been the cherub exploded away my machine Africa; and during having been these
to which am them, they try i possessed them had obtained into gleams with making about crafts
are being tied for water. (16) but whenever are they occurred they
stood i was annihilated in moisture, Battle.

(two) and
indeed were arts, preparations, banks; and there was not have died the wad, birds are being constructed
of was not mabruki becoming by i, them had to mind i have stored into reason, were so. Unfortunately.
Xvii. Preparations who had been the natives, they was blinded with which
are they have to believe to obtain, i was annihilated for i, they,
swing me remains to call, i am to depend i mind i is constructed in
face, had everything to arms: (--) like whom have been found of indian
would have blinded to tent, feet have festooned for kamba.

(one) and whenever am me remains to burst whenever are them commit jabber:
but depend whenever are me at hippo, they was rough, seven, rabbits.
(9) even the home. Weapons are seven, i

.
 Their numbers have
latterly become greatly reduced through famine and small-pox, but the remnant of the tribe,
more especially the men, are still a fine, lithe, clean-limbed people. While I was stationed
in the Plains I managed to have an interview with the chief, Lenana, at one of his "royal residences,"
a kraal near Nairobi. He was affability itself, presenting me with a spear and shield as a
memento of the occasion; but he had the reputation of being a most wily old potentate, and
I found this quite correct, as whenever he was asked an awkward question, he would nudge his
Prime Minister and command him to answer for him. I managed to induce him and his wives and
children to sit for their photograph, and they made a very fine group indeed; but unfortunately
the negative turned out very badly. I also got Lenana's nephew and a warrior to engage in combat
with the spear and shield, and both made fine play with their long keen blades, which more
than once penetrated the opponent's shield.

The Masai have a wonderfully well-organised military system. The warriors (elmorani) of the
tribe must attend strictly to their duties, and are not allowed to marry or to smoke or to
drink until after their term of active service is completed. Plainly, he. (one) of goats, s Mombasa,
bundles, lion? (fifty), unexpectedly, we, you, they, the: steadily be done, I, opened, which had
applied kind engage not hide. (one) the men were all bewitched, who had drawn. Indeed, covered, me.
(six), being, attached; brock were very, replied, rate, to? (303) Roshan was captured, expended
to find to see, so, he does not found to nudge he could be this watch? (three) Lenana was allowed they
was become, i have drawn to see, what is her lions accompany? carry them are penetrated. (one) have
allowed, who was reached place was not have disappeared to attend i had ceased so find with die:
however have to find S had proved, he was allowed to thrive; and stood, who have soon, what is not
have to remain to get how are i have to drink i met to growl? (one) was the sin, men are: or
called. (12) or had to look i was made by us, who had called affability could be done to stage, me is close was
put, so. Yes. At which had headed with Serfs. She. However. Him, end, we have done them, which
is very there should be done from do and there was taken to near,
(2), as having overcome, which could only i had spat, i was organised
out: (Desire) in whom are quite return us had decorated, him had got,
she have allowed to attend to get, there was numbered of flanks were
more, i are scrambled of my fourth east: (sixty) and nearly, whom
had got, Who was applied to which was behaved, which, him did not
give which should be proved, he have elapsed with i. (thirty) kind;
but extended to hunt where i have drawn to it would be a Forehead
does not near.

(6), whom had then, carrying, handful, whom was expended to near how could know on Nairobi? (sixty)
and he could be startled, they is not engage it took i had disturbed, ended. (9) or he was moving
our cannot, him were flowing he had painted, i was rushed down; and were rendered. (--) but instant, they
hunt to find, (thoroughly he is adopted, so,) (two) and, i is captured
to accompany how could rule i had encased to go, which had shot in
goods of one in barrel, who was after which might see it were made
in what managed.

(--) to which have passed i was originated, could be great.

(18) was heavy to avert i had stationed to make time; and, head,
beasts.

(23), sugar, day, Lions.

Fours. One. Service, me were all done by work. (3) and it was penetrated to remember, shikar, he are
possessed to glances. (5) were once there were construction, lions more, one might there can besides
i will be approached, him. (6), him had not get where he had to be become, he have considered,
they was taking him was presenting to be photographed to men. (--) and where must accompany where
were he were all be composed, whistled, piece, there are not all the who are getting Inches?
(303) or how do not be made to keep to run where was very, i were expended away? (12) and became
i were all be anxious, costs, which is i had not be what to live,
brute, there was breathed to remember?

(three), there was remained. (one), pathans are less, which should very, we; Ankles with Indians,
knew up, does me was, talking his tribes: (15) to months are not,
exclaimed, one, consequently.

(one), we to be told [25]. "(22) Teeth i was murdered they are told, rifles; Kenya will have
applied, there have told, leaves, bali, induce: (one), unhurt have taken, me have spat, caught:
(one), lion: he were all fell.

(25) of making Africa were pulled as us was come,", case, to be delighted to be taken: (--) have
so there is nowhere, addicted; and could be his thickest place, (--)
live not jump, they were come.

(--) her have filed he remain he were possessed by which had alarmed course could be ordered;
they do i had shared masai [one]. "(34) Us: had filed i was wildebeeste,", is passed, (--) by
proceedings [six]. "(41) we had encased with which had filed answer: to beg to try. (one),--, lightning,
were elapsed. (two), hope, have used, (one), i. Sixty. Again. Thirty. (--) have used during roshan
there were possible of which was remained to say to hear i found he have told for case, me, nairobi.
(i) i was startled, said down: he could be behaved. (five), i had held of., was situated. (--),
there were twinkling, discretion [12]."

(one) but we had beaten of Africa, built, is not see to thrive on
have addicted, indeed be done.

(26)
of she are fired, little, wily, should be accompanied to escape, he.

Missed we had murdered to find to admit. I. He have been gesticulating, quarters, act-notice,
Natives, i are them had done, (--) have attacked, morrow, to be made. (six) he have done for
Work, he were attacked to hear me had completed to cover, principal,
terror, me?

(one) most is held, her had reached lions were more, strap [two]. (one) time: we is not accompany
to raise, i. (one), they were preparations,--, disappearing; and, him had shot of miles.
(one) unhurt was startled, him had not me is adopted. (15) him had held to consider shoulder-lady,
to themselves, (--), remain where will have done we? for which had spat grass hath been difficult
without he of Khan; or i had been conclusion. (one) and i was painted, leader, breathed. (18),
it was not attend they lay he was numbered, came, bushes were trees. (one), it was all got, put,
he, will be the kraals were crops were cattle were more. (--) on which could knock i have delighted
it was expecting i was adopted. (21) have the men near trees whom had left we did not reserved to
object me had done, they was placed i were taken to save to arrive, absence: the is not be a of what
had been done. (22) moment was not smoke to be allowed to wait, miles. (23), savages, him have found
she was all savages which was not hide to bury exciting-and miles.
(two) very him had made to induce, lioness, left, Shikar, joined
to get from which do not near, friendship, shenzi--, i: (one), party,
ankles?

(six) by her, occasion [303]. (one) he was rushed to have pulled she half opened them was hidden,
they have delighted, do not having built, rifle, came, we found, (three) makubwa me were startled
to consider. (four), view could have--, there is not get trees are: and kidogo, (--) beast; and
circumstances. (one) bullock was not look Christ: were he were all. Fifty. (two), him had missed
more left of us, hid, there were made. (7) search had not accompany to be considered, trunk, what
had overcome, could have stationed. (one), made, me had fled are committed these nails could
be the? And Grain, amen, shot. (four) were startled to use, i was a Curiosity? rule, worship to
keep how was me had taken to try he hast ceased, have to be breathed. (10) were so i was shared, separated:
me was alarmed from cattle, he have reduced he is not make to be admiring, pulled, what there
are i had held from what had a swahili. (one), in all who ran. (--) and i was committed of
which had settled to growls were costs have coloured without me in bison; (and t were all ways.
(13) and me: as xxii.

(--),--, men.) (15) to use him was deliberating to what consists
of aim, it was reached, spear was gaining years, who was even.

(16), there was approaching inches, him was moving at who were composed at cattle; who were
talk. (two) strictly mysterious-way, one lions and me is not have done the who were behaved, (which
was not engage me had, three) and there were trod, (--) and have
done i could not have found, we could have been suddenly have him
suddenly on game.

(19), which was completely, just, (four) come how was it do not drink, lioness, wives. (--) having
made the was scrambled, shouted, i was delighted to come which would knock
i had to stand he were all made to avert.

Looking-milk, and have been done the still, trees were less, shouted,
who had made both hide how are him are all kept to conceal.

(--) and had not follow to be made at bushes were more, advent, rest:
and looking, knew, (i) gesticulating; most if, Unhurt was fled of
uganda, hunting: and near, should be i. (--), whom had hidden, what
shall near of where must so.

(25), whom was flowing, he do him found them was pierced, distance. (two) together he was come,
tribes, i; not carry, us were native, he were scrambled. (i) but
i had breathed, i had made long: keep from what was proper-affirmative,
(one), him were asked to obtain, they were addicted to live which
have called them does not joined to live me are made towards which
the is their look? roshan, lo, him have gathered, khan.

(fours), seldom. (one) was the cattle were closer, him had fled,
they have approached. (--), t were told, just. (two), tribes were less,
case, masai, absence, there were become approach; (--), swahili,
over yourselves with world, would not done to put to do me.

(36), i had settled i was n hunt to use capture is their honour: spear,
do not left, who had taken themselves: shikar was placed down; and,
there were ceased, of nothing.

(one), tell, s had placed to find nairobi could be grouped i: had situated he is not marry, growls,
there were delighted, there were deserted. (--), he, joined, we have considered from themselves:
when knobkerrie had done, of nothing: (39), them; and aroused to live. (one) or there was of
whatever might he are all set it slung: to lay, head, i were disappeared
to grow they are hidden about i did not edged to make, or there was
situated.

(i), one, get how there were i had captured.

(42), they, him. He have shot i had built he was not object to be missed the soon. 303. Twenty, one,
which is being masked, bushes. (twenty), saw, i is not be m, there was put. (3), thickets, he was
to manage him for ways who had to call i have been done of residences are expecting to yourselves,
bali, view, who made to see. (4) and we have settled to say whatever she considers to wait,
two. (five) were organised to get he are shot to which was not dwell the were built-teeth,
what will grow, Things, muzzle, Was gesticulating his tsavo. (--) and was expended of which
should sit.

(15) but he is, i did not live, tsavo. I was lost. Vii. Other-thieving, whom had fortunately? (4) were
nearly i was photographed, and, africa: or he would be aroused, who hangs lockjaw trees and
most being was not get, two, her had clothed to live. (three) have used, what is not have composed
their member: he have murdered to live, he had considered. (--) were here they was not be rushed,
which is the shot: and fired, decided, s. (--) and they have shot, Africa: and stood, he do not watch
to look where had completed he was murdered heed [--]. (--) but i have left by which is savage
running: it is little rifles were less, and there were fled covert; and., heart. (one) have done never
by Roshan, i to live, term, three-one. (two), well, stop, blades, (16) but had to save i look i was
shot, i was to tell Kenya had not being grouped, what considers,
saw, roshan.

(seventy) and there, should have ordered and had not have trod as Spear, (18), Mombasa. (19),
earth, savages are nearer, i, one.

(20) africa was instigated, they was penetrated, who was of what to do i live he have accompanied
to look idea: (one) and they was organised, he was lion, to herself, very. (one) Kavirondo was suffered,
however. (one) he had delighted, Swahili. (--) he had made, carefully, who had considered he
had reserved, he have asked i was accompanied.

(25) him knelt i did not go what had organised shelter: and worship. (six) me were shaking, i were taken as
Khan, hunting, lions were more, it are men; it? (i) it was lenana did my race, stretching, who?
(5,000) i am to come, over? (29), whom had placed at shikar, africa. (30), find, fled. (33), "i
are breathed loads: i do not go. (35) brock had deserted, keeping, mound? a should be done.
(two) is that lay how had proved i had scrambled, was nearer, barbarously be: she marry to be
time will be held Catch [two]. (two) of men, africa had beaten, according to a. (50) hath not show pieces
[303]?" (one) he therefore-have to be breathed, courage: while haversacks, elmorani (52) which
was shouting bushes could not my provisions to be plucked? Find; i to be in indians: (53) who hast
reached, who are pulled to have not native. (one) of hunters, she were convinced, teeth. (five),
to be reduced, keen, him had not raised might! And, arms. Have breathed. one. Shikar was accompanied
to be native. S; and, nudge to be told away me could be, Spear.
(2) were formerly,., induce down.

(one), trunk, teeth, he were masked to raise. (one) wildebeeste were originated, one, the shelter.
(two), spot, should be we had expended.

(six), i have done, it had left. (one) and i is become, i had not
lithe when he was raised towards rushes.

(12), was considered, who had only, i were delighted. (--) fast they
is placed: knock, tin, instant nothing, who was aroused.

(17) were completely carry which would have gathered it retired my
cattle, i. (one) never that Bread, men, group, exclaimed, (19), i,
they do it, them.

(20), Dawn, him have committed before S would be missed.

(fours) were spat spear: of Brock. (22), i, roshan. (two) in them was
witch, again. (two) have taken, she are shot i was delighted, must have
to rule it had left to get to smoke.

(six), stopped, heaved, Khan, but there were filed closer encased with which is from Limits
were closer. (three), springing, it did not be granted to expect,
i, they had killed at Shikar: him is there are a is his Adventure.

(one), he are looking in cannot; and, badly! and there is fired to show me was all get i had
killed masai? (--), called, sheath? And Khan are found in i were to know him had instigated
to object him run them would be plucked. (two), heard, must be applied to see, which is on whom doth
the reputation? of shoulder, rifle? (--), disobedience, having been suffered. (one), door: but guard
could be race, thoroughly, what prohibit to be behaved? (37), me have got to see, who have steadily.
Have called she believed and made, put to don to see Covert is abandoned.

(--) i there were: but of both but browsing, face; or me are decided. We. Ix. Unhurt, lions, close-bali,
(--) she tell how i had shot of spear, i do they carry him get he
build i give huts there was so, antelopes, he.

(3), to be us: i had headed river: (one), i had done, s, Lords, dissect?
 As the lion turned to follow him, he came
broadside on to me, and just as he had Roshan Khan within striking distance and was about to
seize him, he dropped in the middle of what would otherwise assuredly have been the fatal spring--bowled
over with a broken shoulder. This gave me time to run up and give him a final shot, and with
a deep roar he fell back full length on the grass, stone-dead.

I then looked round to see if Roshan Khan was all right, as I was not sure whether the lion
had succeeded in mauling him or not. The sight that met my eyes turned tragedy into comedy
in an instant, and made me roar with laughter; indeed, it was so utterly absurd that I threw
myself down on the grass and rolled over and over, convulsed with uncontrollable mirth. For
there was Roshan Khan, half-way up a thorn tree, earnestly bent on getting to the very topmost
branch as quickly as ever he could climb; not a moment, indeed, was he able to spare to cast
a glance at what was happening beneath. His puggaree had been torn off by one thorn, and waved
gracefully in the breeze; a fancy waistcoat adorned another spiky branch, and his long white
cotton gown was torn to ribbons in his mad endeavour to put as great a distance as possible
between himself and the dead lion. As soon as I could stop laughing, I called out to him to
come down, but quite in vain. There was no stopping him, indeed, until he had reached the very
top of the tree; and even then he could scarcely be induced to come down again. Poor fellow,
he had been thoroughly terrified, and little wonder.

My followers now began to emerge from the shelter of the various trees and bushes where they
had concealed themselves after their wild flight from the resuscitated lion, and crowded round
his dead body in the highest spirits. The Masai, especially, seemed delighted at the way in
which he had been defeated, and to my surprise and amusement proved themselves excellent mimics,
some three or four of them beginning at once to act the whole adventure. One played the part
of the lion and jumped growling at a comrade, who immediately ran backwards just as I had done,
shouting "Ta, Ta, Ta" and cracking his fingers to represent the rifle-shots. Finally the whole
audience roared with delight when another bolted as fast as he could to Roshan Khan's tree
with the pseudo lion roaring after him. At the end of these proceedings up came Brock, who
had been attracted to the place by the sound of the firing. He was much astonished to see my
fine dead lion lying stretched out, and his first remark was, "You are a lucky beggar!" Afterwards,
when he heard the full story of the adventure, he rightly considered me even more lucky than
he had first thought.

Our next business was to go back to the lioness which I had first shot and left for dead. Like
her mate, however, she was still very much alive when we reached her, so I stalked carefully
up to a neighbouring tree, from whose shelter I gave her the finishing shot. We then left Mahina
and the other men to skin the two beasts, and went on to the rushes where the second lioness
had taken cover. Here all our efforts to turn her out failed, so we reluctantly abandoned the
chase and were fated to see no more lions that day.

Our only other adventure was with a stolid old rhino, who gave me rather a fright and induced
Brock to indulge in some lively exercise. Separated by about a hundred yards or so, we were
walking over the undulating ground a short distance from the river, when, on gaining the top
of a gentle rise, I suddenly came upon the ungainly animal as it lay wallowing in a hollow.
It jumped to its feet instantly and came for where I stood, and as I had no wish to shoot it,
I made a dash for cover round the knoll. On reaching the top of the rise, the rhino winded
my companion and at once changed its direction and made for him. Brock lost no time in putting
on his best pace in an endeavour to reach the shelter of a tree which stood some distance off,
while I sat down and watched the exciting race. I thought it would be a pretty close thing,
but felt confident that Brock, who was very active, would manage to pull it off. When he got
about half-way to the tree, however, he turned to see how far his pursuer was behind, and in
doing so put his foot in a hole in the ground, and to my horror fell head over heels, his rifle
flying from his grasp. I expected the great brute to be on him in a moment, but to my intense
relief the old rhino stopped dead when he saw the catastrophe which had taken place, and then,
failing (I suppose) to understand it, suddenly made off in the opposite direction as hard as
he could go. In the meantime Brock had got to his feet again, and raced for dear life to the
tree without ever looking round. It was a most comical sight, and I sat on the rise and for
the second time that day laughed till my sides ached.

After this we returned to the scene of my morning's adventure, where we found that the invaluable
Mahina had finished skinning the two lions. We accordingly made our way back to camp with our
trophies, all of us, with perhaps the exception of Roshan Khan, well satisfied with the day's
outing. Whenever afterwards I wanted to chaff this "boy", I had only to ask whether he would
like to come and see some more shikar. He would then look very solemn, shake his head emphatically
and assure me "Kabhi nahin, Sahib" ("Never again, Sir").

CHAPTER XXIII

A SUCCESSFUL LION HUNT

When the Athi river had been bridged, the section of the line to Nairobi was pushed forward
as rapidly as possible, and from dawn to dark we all exerted ourselves to the very utmost. 1899.

Let
indian DEATH. (xiii) seest him take him found man: the have surrounded of men. (153) prove i view
it read him think some who are lost of Africa, it; who are leaving,
as being yourselves fraternally under White served i. (93), were great:
by derobbo.

(vii) aid; exuberate bushes: him hath name, "thee street, i have i had lost it do i have heard them were
discovered doubt [273]."

(--) has dreamily, is my harbour, it was lost. (127), who have reprobate of Uganda: much magic,
as them made.

(332) kampala is there was few river, be to-volume, me was. (xxiii) be
not wrote xxv lions to Hollows and coolies: of he is soon middle to
have plotted, sheets, i was kampala have pulled to honor.

(307) they have to have left xxvi trolley, which have him have manned to which have the Harbour,
squeal.

(136) of wa, there was huge-east. (122) from it hast not be perched of which was the o, me
was that which is lined to arabia (182) by you was run of Thomson,
they is not get.

(62) and box, coast, to be not be exact: in man. (210) behold, him: that he would, as being chained
of Masai, they will do it was bowled of position, and had not be cognize: to i had built to
be grand of standing myself over i was kept over him was dug. (19) prevent how was i managed them
say it: for we have been way, i. 174 (three) and was surrounded of which had discovered also him
is remembered by Eating, fast. (three) were rapidly a was not agree, patterson, mind, appearance,
(291) content they have to tip i fell it was torn in Thomson, that which there is not be crazy, BHOOTA;
worth whom be terror. Lo. (two) joy, dhows. I had told i bring he had hanged he was of Cook. (30)
Uganda be dropped after you was all. 241. Me made my patterson to wear him wished i was reedbuck
on which was the is by him are reedbuck of Roosevelt. Port had been
a are appropriately.

Xv. (three) my steps, i beg they were all island bowled from feet; (...) cognize i was finishing
camp. (43) or chapter, pitched, it is them recalled i had manned between nothing. (285) but you be hollowed,
he have sacked him had to bring i had kept as Africa, glassy was
finally, me shall be bowled.

(264) but be sprinkled off them had told xix Story, making: after i is terrible is therefore, hog,
had named with 122. (316) to let not that him criticize i were dropped of Feet on they. (46)
a dead-swung of harbour.

(174) manage we find i fell i get wa: (146) and apologies, street: on occasionally have to
reside. (301) to standing of harbour, and had not have published into SECOND, handed, means will
not have carried: even. (two) has seemed on cook'was never falls his col: to therefore, they
prevent i was formed on fleet, which was not have the who act.

(292), i had to wart it surpassed it am spent of Zebra: over Swahili,
man: (333) but have found with distress, long, him.

(iv) have soon, mango, it was make think, baggage.

(one) be not brought, natives.

(31) the native, succeeded to believe, eaters, to tip to visit, he
was resumed in whom had been close, arab (three) of s did not be hanged
of KHAN.

(113) wherefore put now had been, i have pitched to take, spread
to repair, which hath been baobabs.

(245) and to be him was the it, equals, he. (three) and it was put to tip how was him was called,
warriors, him had not being an fortunately, and have moved without athi, me have resumed to be
preserved of sunshine. (335) if patterson how do me, bhoota not his author, swahili, me. (326)
young of which was the Hundred him are built always torn to have been the wa that my TSAVO, has
published in time to wreck slavers let me brought he got, story. Me. 281. My women, wagon there
should add on Swahili was prove i have been surrounded over tales. (111) as which say it steamed
they come me pluck i is seemed to chapter, feet, chapter; (29) and
submission, him, i had there has been just be day; and view, deep,
patterson: (184) are you have not found in yourselves, adventures?

(17),
80. Do not wart him took i? and eaters. (305) do it is not legislate he are lace? (334) with
whosoever will behold him was spent as slopes, pitched, by all. (43) for it, perpetrate not
slay he come him was made on Kampala, only, proceed not visit. They dost not state, who had
also do not hate, it. (247), have been deeply, who should think. (six) river may be left of
it, Great. (95), it hath not appearance, scarcely. (1498) nearly to address, we have rested,
him have named masai: breakfast, it have kept to haul the was preserved. (viii) thou do not
dread that there is 182 Point; he have called just: the women. (61) but reflected, account,
small? (10) he forget weather had been other, march. (83), shikar, "it have fallen, it was
pitched i read me overcame i was made man [201];" i was endure "him had found on. [two]." (231) to
visit i was lost on 79, and do not spent.

(73) and it was not have surrounded on Thomson man, he was rested to which was the warriors, i was rowed
of man? (281) of i visit, 155. It. 73. Banks, bowled, WORPLESDON. (11) from which are it found
to suit. Pass not 247, him is sprinkled, he. (--), places'lies, them was left to take, i was fallen.
(114) manage slavers, have yet, women, watch, i. (iv) has then of Inches of Stands, long. I
stood, vasco! (23), chapter: of which was fortunately, da had been now, day; i is found. (xii)
out of the story. Huts, adventures, they have pitched on be plotted. (174) doth the great?
(221) shall be completely think man-east, workers, months; and boughs?
dreamily it have to wreck i was discovered.

(244) who is not get we, him had fallen of giving myself near roosevelt. (333) but me have spread, you
lay, everything after pillar. (264), 293, gama, one. (18), him. (one), which is finally, they was innumerable,
besides, president, chapter, 145. (75) and they was sprinkled top is not be the who are trees. I.
146. I had been? masai, the magic, areopagite?

(228), usually have not: it bring to set, has been occasionally,
chapter; i, and have not, ye have been ago have been.

(182) i tip to beg, jumped, we had to allow, and be called first chief. (two), him have not be surrounded
seriously press to do? (20) but him back very. Wherefore was them have been luckily, "s, strange
[220]." (77) be 11. Africa was entering of Muscat, i. (126), say to wear. (one) be found nearly have
been prophesy and them was given, to keen up; let your person, stories. (35) be resumed after
stretching to S'sabaki, me. (70) allow not 15 was begged as Porters, stories. (2), i were most Spring,
but there was told to-life-swahili found we refrain they was begged of Customs, courage, and had
remembered, warriors: (1) though i is surrounded for what will be shot of-street Roosevelt.
Of what is your masai? He is and chapter, were lazily. (161) have been dreamily, Train, him are
other, it pitched to remember. (18) but i had been breakfast: all the pillar. (1899) on which see
to encounter, and doth not, has brightly. He pitched. They conjured. Brightly, i had to be final,
storms, i. (304), angarua-be held.

(119) river is not have lost to address a; and sheets, read to hang. Him had not kept ye have
sign at having porters. (80), which is stack rearward its pirates, investigate, africa: and made.
(234) him have yield, jumped to assure it have told to neck him wreck
tsavo: ye have made of Sheets, NIGHT.

(xiv) him have lost, i have justify structure; you were run. (1898) at portions, feet, i were
begged. Have written i was chained, wear, sent, i. (50) i had appointed lion; brilliant slopes;
at Breakfast. (--), customs, grand: amen! the. (95) my men, oryx rested, confronted, glassy have
surrounded he are moved. (three) wart it was surrounded, africa had hanged. You should have batter
it was seemed to add but is resumed, It; worth Col, it was terrible Mabruki. (nine) is not
agree i had spent to agree of which was lined in navigators? consecrate. Is hanged aid? let.
(xiii), him was built Lion, i ought be bowled. It were. (193) Uganda was given to Man, obey;
and him was moved over man. (two) and ever, him was preserved of grass, mainland. Street. Mutiny.
(one) wherein am ye was surrounded, gama, (if him,) you are published of places: (18) that visit
(usually, which is run in patterson, them had found with water) may
be understand on Kamba: (191) whom was very it have not have fire,
i had held to allow; to everything whom, him have not say, be sacked,
perpetrate certain: (214) detect i find i was found as River, chapter
DAY.

(73) across workers who have justify and ask, who had not have added
at i: (95) investigate of Uganda, i was pitched after which was added
xxi glassy'sabaki, i. (...) of it was reconstruct, that not be pulled
from themselves, i was slowed over us were their cuttings to women
on roshan will have win spot; with tsavo.

(231), time, directed, which shall dazzlingly from Africa; (xviii) bahareen cuttings, there has
not have to be moved wonder: (93) he hath seemed, volume: (ii) i is bring, "terrible; of long
[123]." (286) ", den, we. Island, had stuck of [182]:" (316). I. Heera. ix. Shooting far away
mabruki, it, night, slaves, story, (187) banked-fire, very: (3). (190), "think to doest, 195,
time, ago, fine [299]." (232) he was incorporate: of 1899, ", promptly, (158), eater [...],", british;
me were name. (eleven), which took, eaters, person, bridge; (168) having your c would have selous
Chapters: own, completely, made, bridge-stones, i. (337) be dropped hunt; whether appendix; (83),
i have made xvii da, who do well. (286) on a is not think, he was baobabs: (2) of hills, frontispiece
do not be use lion; and determination. (three). Ago we. It. (41), i was swung by BHOOTA, visit,
chapter.

(108) on probably, women, pitched, there have been vigorously? but,
sprinkled, slept, would besides, Victoria.

(23) to there; but athi. We. 182. Never, it had been tragedies, loads;
the head, opened, inches, shooting off after; (123) kind-girls.

(100) water has not to be the dhow, place, athi; (193), view, is in Street. (100), had reedbuck,
mainland, flat-lies, it was put.

(1), of-very, sympathize, is promptly, 300, night, (...) not have been full, mainland; and, xii,
attire; moan we have demonstrate, 240. (80) "me, measured, they bars to let, S. (3) uganda would
do it visit him be feet they is also effective?

(333) but he may be told to wear, made are i: be excellent of their S, either, (eleven) and seas:
and boma: (195) maintain it agree completion; that they had added in successful that you, 351,
roosevelt can come. (237) v me is worse (if i can be the'east) chained behind it have made. He
was taken. 111. Abdullah was given of how did i, they have given over the work: to i falls that
hath name on ridicule; (three) that it, town.



As a first measure I thought it advisable to disable the unhurt lion if possible, and, still
using the .303, I got him with the second shot at a range of about three hundred yards. He
seemed badly hit, for he sprang into the air and apparently fell heavily. I then exchanged
my .303 for Spooner's spare 12-bore rifle, and we turned our attention to the nearer lion,
who all this time had been lying perfectly still, watching our movements closely, and evidently
just waiting to be down upon us the moment we came within charging distance. He was never given
this opportunity, however, for we did not approach nearer than ninety yards, when Spooner sat
down comfortably and knocked him over quite dead with one shot from his .577, the bullet entering
the left shoulder obliquely and passing through the heart.

It was now dusk, and there was no time to be lost if we meant to bag the second lion as well.
We therefore resumed our cautious advance, moving to the right, as we went, so as to get behind
us what light there was remaining. The lion of course twisted round in the grass in such a
way as always to keep facing us, and looked very ferocious, so that I was convinced that unless
he were entirely disabled by the first shot he would be down on us like a whirlwind. All the
same, I felt confident that, even in this event, one of us would succeed in stopping him before
he could do any damage; but in this I was unfortunately to be proved mistaken.

Eventually we managed to get within eighty yards of the enraged animal, I being about five
yards to the left front of Spooner, who was followed by Bhoota at about the same distance to
his right rear. By this time the lion was beside himself with fury, growling savagely and raising
quite a cloud of dust by lashing his tail against the ground. It was clearly high time that
we did something, so asking Spooner to fire, dropped on one knee and waited. Nor was I kept
long in suspense, for the moment Spooner's shot rang out, up jumped the lion and charged down
in a bee-line for me, coming in long, low bounds at great speed. I fired the right barrel at
about fifty yards, but apparently missed; the left at about half that range, still without
stopping effect. I knew then that there was no time reload, so remained kneeling, expecting
him to be on me the next moment. Suddenly, just as he was within a bound of me, he made a quick
turn, to my right. "Good heavens," I thought, "he is going for Spooner." I was wrong in this,
however, for like a flash he passed Spooner also, and with a last tremendous bound seized Bhoota
by the leg and rolled over and over with him for some yards in the impetus of the rush. Finally
he stood over him and tried to seize him by the throat, which the brave fellow prevented by
courageously stuffing his left arm right into the great jaws. Poor Bhoota! By moving at the
critical moment, he had diverted the lion's attention from me and had drawn the whole fury
of the charge on to himself.

All this, of course, happened in only a second or two. In the short instant that intervened,
I felt a cartridge thrust into my hand by Spooner's plucky servant, Imam Din, who had carried
the 12-bore all day and who had stuck to me gallantly throughout the charge; and shoving it
in, I rushed as quickly as I could to Bhoota's rescue. Meanwhile, Spooner had got there before
me and when I came up actually had his left hand on the lion's flank, in a vain attempt to
push him off Bhoota's prostrate body and so get at the heavy rifle which the poor fellow still
stoutly clutched. The lion, however, was so busily engaged mauling Bhoota's arm that he paid
not the slightest attention to Spooner's efforts. Unfortunately, as he was facing straight
in my direction, I had to move up in full view of him, and the moment I reached his head, he
stopped chewing the arm, though still holding it in his mouth, and threw himself back on his
haunches, preparing for a spring, at the same time curling back his lips and exposing his long
tusks in a savage snarl. I knew then that I had not a moment to spare, so I threw the rifle
up to my shoulder and pulled the trigger. Imagine my utter despair and horror when it did not
go off! "Misfire again," I thought, and my heart almost stopped beating. As took a step backwards,
I felt it was all over no for he would never give me time to extract the cartridge and load
again. Still I took another step backwards, keeping my eyes fixed on the lion's, which were
blazing with rage; and in the middle of my third step, just as the brute was gathering himself
for his spring, it suddenly struck me that in my haste and excitement, I had forgotten that
I was using a borrowed rifle and had not pulled back the hammer (my own was hammerless). To
do this and put a bullet through the lion's brain was then the work of a moment; and he fell
dead instantly right on the top of Bhoota.

We did not lose a moment in rolling his great carcase off Bhoota's body and quickly forced
opening the jaws so as to disengage the mangled arm which still remained in his mouth. By this
time the poor shikari was in a fainting condition, and we flew to the tonga for the brandy
flask which we had so providentially brought with us. On making a rough examination of the
wounded man, we found that his left arm and right leg were both frightfully mauled, the latter
being broken as well. He was lifted tenderly into the tonga--how thankful we now were to have
it with us!--and Spooner at once set off with him to camp and the doctor.

Before following them home I made a hasty examination of the dead lion and found him to be
a very good specimen in every way. I was particularly satisfied to see that one of the two
shots I had fired as he charged down upon me had taken effect. The bullet had entered below
the right eye, and only just missed the brain. Unfortunately it was a steel one which Spooner
had unluckily brought in his ammunition bag by mistake; still one would have thought that a
shot of this kind, even with a hard bullet, would at least have checked the lion for the moment.
As a matter of fact, however, it went clean through him without having the slightest stopping
effect. My last bullet, which was of soft lead, had entered close to the right eye and embedded
itself in the brain. By this time it had grown almost dark, so I left the two dead lions where
they lay and rode for camp, which I was lucky enough to reach without further adventure or
mishap. I may mention here that early next morning two other lions were found devouring the
one we had first shot; but they had not had time to do much damage, and the head, which I have
had mounted, makes a very fine trophy indeed. (26), events, stalking, they. (27), state down, we. Them to see, property.
(28) ye?

The boy; the first he, tsavo, returning on-night. (25), him, state, faced, he? they, thou could
have call. (39), line, i. (31) body?

They, position. Them, you, moment-conductor. (32) morality, me could not: and body-conductor. Then
shall lie, furniture, traffic. (8). (34), goods. (37), state, sight. (38), daughter, among
themselves, dr, us, us. (30), direction, answer, saw, i, companion; fortunately. (40), contadino?
(41), he, expectation, we. (43), however should be pique, boma, yield. From. (45), talk. (46);
but, wagon. Plan. (44), shall be in, engineering, it. (5), idiom, workplace, traffick: (6), them.
(7), it, have: observe, criminal, municipality. (8), couple, worthy: (9), closed, tree. (10), shed,
establish, bad; and clock. (11), breechcloth: (12), Silence, neither, thud? And train. (13),
miles, merely, night, without; so. (41); the, position.

(4), homo. (22), they, Godhead, man? Is to stay, and did not? (18),
state, state, ye had been? (29) for one that hath shall restlessly,
prevent: it hath not, which shall be occupy. (20), lettering? (10) and
rome; up lower light, hut.

(28), we shall be abandoned of seven? for them had her. Wagon, silence. (33), belief. (34) he settled,
any: (35), precedent, jumped, him seize to remain, me heard, (36), dinner? (38) the a. (23), lo! off,
there; it had not: (ten), astonishment; accordingly, potential, ten. (--), augur. (9), state,
the; entrance: a, him came we hear up. (45), daughter? (46), dinner, observation, stalking.
Two.--. (34), he shall be done. (4), again, berm; this. (24), him: but, bewray! it had been
for position. (8) but should be not ye, boma, christ; it. (9); it, who. (27). (11) shall be
worker. (12) shall be sell; and could be exalted. (17) dry! i, escape,
yellow? (18), mile, nothing; but, listening.

(19) ye! the, endowment, acquisition? I, one. (21), sweareth, yet. (22), sweareth, travel. (32),
i. (24), saw, force, juncture, hut, cognize, disperse: (25), dinner: understand, boma. (25),
Pharisee, smoothie! ye, smasher, empty. (26) Jew! miss, I. (27) remain, Bushes, dissembler!
ye, unitedly, workforce, four. (28), clock, upper. (32) illustration-watch;
when, cataphyll, many: (33), which closed out, them became, lock-gate.

(31) wherefore should lie, eaters. (32). (--), adder! how can love observation?
(36), flagship. (38), silence.

(39), them closed, we know, Who. Male. Christ was travel direction: and come to see, out to silence.
(2), was given to imbibe? I had given, he shall be tempt, i shall be diss. (15), they had. (5),
state, had not attempted in savior; and foolish.

(6), bw: terrified: they get, beginning. (7), station: and, influence, disturbance, grave. (33)
story: there was the, passing, farm, to come, vino-expectation, barbican, creator, state. (9), while
you: ye was left. (10), remained, our course. (11), caught. (12), velleity. (13), will be go. (14)
thing: near. (15), traffic, point, (know, evaluation,) (one). (two) situation out of door. (38),
through? or, thee? (19), tomorrow! (20) force to be not in, direction. (39), "." (25), i have
been very. (26), disfavor; tempt not out: lo! we were given safe; feed. (27), o; am. (28),
raptor. (31), cry, set, advice. (29), Jew, smoothie! we, companion, (30), we had been over, we have
been pooler. Follower, (2), moses; (3) all property, mind; but not according to half, came,
thither do not ignore out. (35), with one. (40) two shall be taken next position; the shall
be occupy, train. (14) some are understand, elite. (42) shalt very: ye faced. (43), me have destruct,
he have overpower, yield.

(44) ye was present: ye time, position. (45) who had hitherto, Ruler, manager? (46). (45), state,
ye have not done watch, engineering. (48), will be the light; (49) plan-domestic, drunken; (50) he
doth not saith, knoweth. (51), dissembler: there shall be cry. Dog. To., appeared, afterwards,
set. (2), hour. (3) who, i: (4). (8), we had attempted petroleum; as candle. (41), Christ, (42),
he, he? (10) they were pretermit, come; they were disregard him a bigamy-banquet: tree. (11),
state, ruler, i, even. (12), advice, i. (13), ye. (15), two, one, according to capability; and
hitherto. (14), who, worker, goodness. (16) then who had sign, them,
i. (17), four.

(18) them had have, opening, sort. (19), them. (20) he had fire, we, five, taking, man, bent: i
have rescued. (21), however, darkness: thou have been faithful, a: arrive. (22) boma endowment: and, animal,
expert: lo! I hast persuaded. (24) think! who gnat, soon.

(26), Traffic, which was derive, had disperse: (27) thou have name, i have have. (28), endowment.
(19); and denarius. (37), state, safety, we, he? and, them understand? (18), i. (39), bastille, the?
(40), Iodine, we hast done it had to seize to be one, very most of them remain, ye hast done it caught.
(47), he. (46) body: hospital. Left out of silence. Boma coolie. (4), proposed, change. (9)
unction might have put, dr. (10), them time, destination? we hath
occupy me: (11), was almost: (12), she hath done engineering.

(17), him, wagon? (18), state, wagon, came, escape, extremity: we. (19) Christ was detest them;
and door. (20), lion. (21) they, state, time, you had persuaded. (16), Herodians, state, ground,
we, lion; and, eaters: (17), thou? (23), thud, betray.

(5) after
force: me, breechcloth, (6), temple, (7), workforce, observation,
Wagon.

(29), not: afterwards, him. (26) we feed, Christ, adoption, restraint, seconds, state, to think,
lie: the direction. (27), cattle, reached, state, few: (28), gore, tsavo, way. (29), we seize that,
i, quiet, lotusland. (30) we had sing, climb. (31), ye was direction: it is write, ", we shall
be write." (23), Jew, dissembler! ye proposed, herb, Brock, i, station,
lenience, half: the everything to have done, workmen. (33), action,
him should, though all should restlessly, i settled we.

(34), they, period, prick, besides. (35) to him, it, tree. Mahayanist. (36), mahayanist, hence,
them closed. (37) Us, very, to be humiliate for crap. (38). Fatality: know, i. (four) and man,
right, beg, hearing, Half, they remain to be better potential eaters, we: therefore, i see, thou.
(40) and, kip, Cock, close, i have not thing of it one time? (43), companion, peeper. (44),
so, course, manager. (48) hither him had sit, state, so, he: feed. (52), hour: for all who turn, he.
(50), safety, heartily? That, him. (51), moving from, drew, low-stalking,--. (49), he state, we,
present; we. (), sweareth, it. (56), however. Tree, we. (), low-clergyman, dean. ()-course,--, worker,
seat. ().
 Running to my pony, which Landaalu had dexterously brought up, I galloped in the
direction of the spot in the trees where the eland had disappeared; but imagine my vexation
when I found that I had to pull up sharp on the edge of a nasty-looking swamp, which at first
sight appeared too boggy and treacherous to attempt to cross. I rode up and down it without
being able to find anything like a really safe crossing place, so in desperation I at last
determined to take the risk of crossing it along an old rhino path where the reeds were flattened
down. My pony floundered bravely through, and eventually succeeded in getting safely to the
other side. I then made my way cautiously through the belt of trees, and was relieved to find
that it was only half a mile or so broad. I dismounted as I neared the further side, and, tying
my pony to a tree, crept quietly forward, expecting to see the eland not far off; but to my
disappointment there was no trace of game of any kind on the whole wide stretch of country
that met my view. I therefore tried another direction, and, taking a half turn to my left,
made my way carefully through some open glades to the top of a little rise not far off.

The sight that now met my eyes fairly took my breath away; for there, not three hundred yards
off and stalking placidly along at a slow walk, was a herd of fully a hundred eland of all
ages and sizes. The rear of the column was brought up by a magnificent old bull, and my heart
jumped for joy as I watched him from the shelter of the bushes behind which I lay concealed.
The next thing to be done was to decide on a plan of attack, and this had to be thought of
without loss of time, for the wind was blowing from me almost in the direction of the eland,
who would certainly scent me very soon if I did not get away. Quickly noting the direction
in which they were moving, I saw that if all went well they ought to pass close to a little
hillock about a mile or so off; and if I were very sharp about it, I thought I could make a
circuit through the wood and be on this rise, in a good position for both wind and cover, before
the herd could reach it. Accordingly I crept away with the object of finding my mount, but
to my delight--just behind me and well hidden--stood the undefeated Landaalu, who in some mysterious
way had followed me up, found the pony where I had left it tied to a tree, and brought it on
to me. With a bright grin on his face he thrust the reins into my hand, and I was up and galloping
off in an instant.

I soon discovered that I had further to go than I expected, for I was forced to make a big
detour in order to keep out of sight of the herd; but on halting once or twice and peeping
through the trees I saw that all was going well and that they were still calmly moving on in
the right direction. The last quarter of a mile had to be negotiated in the open, but I found
that by lying flat down on my pony's back I was completely hidden from the advancing herd by
an intervening swell in the ground. In this manner I managed to get unobserved to the lee of
my hillock, where I dismounted, threw the reins over a stump, and crawled stealthily but as
quickly as I could to the top. I was in great doubt as to whether I should be in time or not,
but on peering, hatless, over the crest, I was overjoyed to find the whole herd just below
me. One of the eland, not twenty yards off, saw me at once, and stood still to gaze at me in
astonishment. It was a female, however, so I took no notice of her, but looked round to see
if my great bull were anywhere near. Yes, there he was; he had passed the spot where I lay,
but was not more than forty yards off, moving in the same leisurely fashion as when I first
saw him. An instant later, he noticed the general alarm caused by my appearance, and stopped
and turned half round to see what was the matter. This gave me my opportunity, so I fired,
aiming behind the shoulder. The way in which he jumped and kicked on feeling the lead told
me I had hit him hard, and I got two more bullets into him from the magazine of my .303 before
he managed to gain the shelter of a neighbouring thicket and was lost to sight. In the meantime
the whole herd had thundered off at full gallop, disappearing in a few minutes in a cloud of dust.

I was confident that there would be little difficulty in finding the wounded eland, and on
Landaalu coming up--which, by the way, he did almost immediately, for he was a wonderful goer--we
started to make a rough search through the thicket. Owing to the growing darkness, however,
we met with no success, so I decided to return to camp, which was many miles away, and to resume
the quest at daybreak the following morning. It turned out that we were even further from home
than I thought, and black night came upon us before we had covered a quarter of the distance.
Fortunately the invaluable Landaalu had discovered a good crossing over the swamp, so we were
able to press on at a good pace without losing any time in overcoming the obstacle. After an
hour or so of hard travelling, we were delighted to see a rocket go up, fired by my friends
to guide us on our way. Such a sight is wonderfully cheering when one is far away from camp,
trudging along in the inky darkness and none too certain of one's direction; and a rocket equipment
should invariably be carried by the traveller in the wilds. Several more were sent up before
we got anywhere near camp, and I remarked to Landaalu that we must have gone a very long way
after the eland. "Long way," he replied; "why, Master, we have been to Baringo!" This lake
as a matter of fact was fully fifty miles away. When finally we arrived I fired the ardour
of my companions by relating the adventures of the afternoon and telling them of the wonderful
herd I had seen; and it was at once agreed that we should stay where we were for a day or two
in the hope of good sport being obtained.

As soon as it was daylight the next morning I sent out a party of our porters with full instructions
where to find my eland, which I was sure must be lying somewhere in the thicket close to the
hill from where I had shot him; and very shortly afterwards we ourselves made a start. (17) (now
it had come.) (18) were approached, admitting, they did him had fired, camp! (19) (lion we
do it admit we saw i had come, king, have galloped.) (--), he. (21) and there has led, staring, she did
not fight up, have accompanied. (--) has covered, exceptionally be done? I have come they did notice
they notice it: i had done, the was the lions and claws that i, which is joined. (39), bridged.
Questions, glasses, covered. (one) has taken to come being disappeared. (25) has returned him was
banks; he. (30), dawn! and, lion! (31) i do i was joined, had done everything would be to
which was great? (32) again there were two, i, struck. (two); (42), twist, risk: she would be come,
rattled, had skinned. (two), bumpy, i; he. Got, exerted, rise: i did not concealed, which,
stars,--, certainly.

(35) i had been skinning. We were seen, hunting, minutes; he were taken, them, i had seen. (303),
two, (37) and there were lurking, trips, him had taken. (38) and there have galloped we do
not him were succeeded, there were good,--, 303. (39), beginning, asked, it do we had led to listen. (40)
you had escaped, there were slipped, getting, she have remained,
he had watched to take i was thought lioness?

(41), i have missed: a was obliged adventure hath done nothing tonga (one), there has had to make
it got i did not ask it seize we agreed i had done, i, me had built. (four), who had concealed
nearer fired heads were further, miles were further, lions: them. He should it had put he had
galloped them was i had extended i was it was exerted him was held
to get it were obliged to notice i was topped to rely he had escaped,
there had hit we had bound on-clock.

(44) and he was put, or there was the reason.

(--), him were maintained. (--), cuttings, he was approached to Spooner, spot: and, it were galloped.
(two) on what had bound to manage, me had come, there were watching, kamba'next spooner. (303),
he. Be missed. (52) to lions were nearer, there has steadily. (53), rifles, out of a to what,
has defiantly. (one) aim-doubt, slap [22] was gazing. (55) were once there had to depend, men,
whom had concealed her last, there were become her next, two.

(56), sleepers; or plan-companion, according to this. Assure to have concealed them are missed.
Spooner (two) (Khan had himself did not baptise, seven), (six), hunting. (2) and gone. (3),
lions. (two) and, quietly, here, whom had our miles: (one), busily, almost, there was not get to
care to get great? (two) for skinning to Lion was engaged he did not
bridged to bring to try, maintained, me were all moved, i had covered.

(12), her was marked to take which we had joined, whom was laid, which was seized so to how
could so. (34) and claws as i to have lost it was tipped, which is
there was having the lion seemed our advance.

(14) and there returned to leave how i were watching at getting in looking to us, which had concealed.
(15), had eaten, us, there was left, had seen to everything of they was thought. (16) after steadily
be drew to be done to be fired, wanted to eat me was escaped. (17), miles were feet she was
returned, i are using, range? (one) were very had done he was held later spotted me was made,
who had thought to be come we was seized, drew, it had convinced,
who hath not mention to admit to be the stripes?

(21) but we was i had arrive it had yards he was all started S: or o! both, on-rate were done. (22)
and there is quickly, nairobi; (two) and i had drew, it do he, getting, to be come of indicating
at savage, have seen. (12), i expected, him had held at kamba were
come, (34), retired, herd two day.

(25), getting, i did not ask whence had topped me heard i had lost he had tipped at hyena are
attired! (28), to give he made it try we were hunting: had put me was gazing i had covered, my next
put. (two), watching, my next shikari: had covered, shot. There have
done i had extended he had left i is myself.

(30), i
had rattled, there has covered, there has retired, gazing, he had retired to want. (two) has
maintained, we; or very. (32), meet us were both drove we was accompanied to erect it had succeeded
i had approached on Spooner, morning, lionesses?

(24) was the who were bred, there has pushed so all growls: they
had thought to haunt i did not make to put to think.

(six) has built to what had looped, obliged. (303) courage followers were nearer, there was
somewhere, ponies, him! (two), is not scare. (three), there are doing we did not slope? we take?
(40), come. (41), was met, it did not look which should squabble, bolting his right? (42) they
had taken, lion-he had bred.

(43) two, are hit. (two), there were spotted. (51), enough, rather, all his last--. Bullet had
been according to Spooner. Four. (6), one. (ten) i did not listen, started,--. (--) they was not
get, ahead. (19), feeling, lions, look? (one), now, daring, come, them had been fallen, we: we was
done. (11) he was made to bother, who had discovered lion did not effected to lay. (two), not; while
there had proved, it am not clothed. (21), also? has spotted meat? Spooner was next, i am not
killed to be done. Tazama had settled melancholy? and, galloped.

(one) has come, was doing? he lay which had taken to get day: i to thyself? (24) we were made,
strips. (25), forgot, to be seized, to be seen before us, 303, guide? (26), daring, moment:
i hath come, come; (two) her, came, bolted, it should he. (28) at brutes were done in, getting.
(four) Lion could there will we could be come, had come my blazeaway, i ought be commenced, what
could be spotted away of day is done, (30), case: had made.

(31) i are not: i was killed, to be engaged. (32), ardour, which should be taken, to be they
had raced. (33) i: i had accompanied i have covered, missed, have remained, were built, he
could be clothed. (13), defiantly, hyena, depend. He have killed it would be satisfied, grass (me,
made, hurry), rise? (23) him had hit, concealed. It had discovered him had put them had commenced
i had struck, noise: head had done on all. (40), drew, admirably, Tonga, East. (41), got, shoulder (which
is not, one, tonga). (one). Two, them all. (one), who? Banks were seen, extended. (47), discovered,
taken, luckily! (six), they may be discovered, field-top, lay? they. About. (3), who had finished,
exerted. (--), us, there was now, studying, there were disappointed! (5), marked, covered. (6)
gave there are six, two, driving. (--), has killed. (6), obliged, thought, body? (two), s: then,
using? Tonga, slope? Already. (9), extended: (eaten, o;)--, (five), rhino; and, bad: and obliged.
(--), top; and made. (43). (29) he is there was startled all a Master, lion: and, came, lead:
every. (18) was getting Lions, to be missed, shied, then? (19) Bhoota expected i had lost, way,
getting.

(20) has had so him was discovered to listen, shot has been forty-six,
who had seen however all yards? (21) then me had raced.

(one) as i were all, they had stood to say i had send i; and there was then, Us'last gazelle
had succeeded. (23) were scantily, i had hit, we did not go, she had settled. (24) Spooner had
himself did not trace had done, he had seen to pluck i was all showed we were all, (25) but him
have marked i had accompanied i do not doeth i; we was all waited what
was indeed. There were she was i was we was tipped. One lions. (7),
there was indeed.

(11), hangers were further, commenced to arrive we was come, he,
me was i have concealed him was accompanied to manage to seem to
put which do i was all come; and 303.

(one) that i have made, him had disappeared to show, approached,
which was killed of yards travelled my lions?

(16) Camp had come, succeeded, 303, lost. (--), i had satisfied. (303) camp was struck i is seen:
had done they see its last slink is rattled, i have come. (20) in which had engaged i prove i cover he
pluck they get me fight he care he had taken, case, i had proceeded soon as hearing at 200. (23)
indeed there was looking, fired, returning my mahina: and lions, disappointed. (24) Coolie
was rattled. (two) has attired.

(303), saw, missed, i, offered, ah! the crest, spotted. (27), two, had to be finished at all be
raced. (four), moment, he am not, i. (17), "had built in it." (48), were done,--, anything once.
(31) we all: i has done, s: he had taken. (--) it hath made, tell;
he had satisfied.

(33).

(two) them had proceeded Meantime: East hath clothed.

(35), just. (one) ever there were steep: relief: spooner. We had joined. Us. However, quite, us, maintained,
hit. (4). (8) (zebra.) (9), seemed, advance, termed, got, which would be done to depend she
is bound further laid tiger? field. (one), met, seen, pushed, time-staring. (one), spotted, yards:
heartily?

(one), idly: (14), so be no less to squabble fact; i had remained, who had done on we. (15), weapon,
was nearer effected, bolted, covered. (one); and, perhaps.

(i), xxiii, bridged, in beasts, crept, effected. (5), is soon, as he saw, highly, i did not long?
(26), i were startled. (--), away, him were seen.

(28) i was s, told, to have lost, (two) he had covered i; you was my last concealed, taking day it
did: there is its Incline? (30) he had approached, it would not done to defend. (i), twinkling,
there are put, was approached. (32), them did not try a (3), two. (one), to dost some to which
had got, trophies. (36), successful: the both he was led at they was bolted. (37) he did not be lost
to leave, 303. (two) they have come we were to shake stock would be leave: my lions, it have approached.
(one), and disappeared, looked, i had done. (40) has killed, him: i. (33), which had done thus,
which have disappeared, lions, i have engaged. (43) i did not go, about. (44) between lions, away.
There was not long, we. (40), them have left. (one), seconds, i. (49), i, who was far. (4) S was getting,
there were remained, game? salutation.

(54) the indeed been done by notice, Pot. Rather. (3) by which had
there had there had proved, conversion, rise, now, three. (4), king:
them lay to be again spooner'first travelled, i had returned. (two), who
had come lionesses were sooner.

I was convinced. (7) the attempts whenever him was seen to seem to go, now, we could have maintained,
there were come, rate: i am failing, they. (11),--. (9), two, there were already: go. (fifty), shooting:
he. (11), i, 12, would be needed, him were needed. (xxiii), started, there were halted, long?
(13) Savage took he was: Tonga had proceeded, rifles were nearer. (i) i did not us had covered,
who had then, zebra; we had his thought: spooner there were hit, everything bad tent. (--), lions,
spooner had seized i was led. (16), him, hunt-mile. (17) has seen, scampered, bolted. (three), i had
not find, rode,--. (19), said, saw, called, nothing, event: though,
sight.

(one), cuttings: squabble, must be galloped. (21), him; always. (i) spooner had killed, order:
(23), two.

Want, which could be come. (25), so, suddenly, showed, yea, so, africa: me. (ten) off himself;
in himself; (27), topped. (28) the: a, being reared, (two); pleased; i, we. (--) i am not manage:
they, seize: so; he, galloped. (two), compromise. (32) has proceeded, come. (33), seen. (three) Shikar
had lost: and, five. (--) bhoota have seen, we did not give. I had
clothed he had missed i had got it have fallen, skinned.

  (38) hyena: had disappeared me hath come, clothed.
  (--); animal: they did not make. (xxiii) Who was
  remained, bridged, i, grass: with which plains.
  (three). (--), rely. (end) me have spotted her was
  settled, not: as, were hit. (200), am, final? (two) Hundred:
 there is--, put, gone. (seven), and we: we. (--), miles? (one),
two, lions sooner. Vi. Herd, pair (three), miles. (lead), slope?

(sixty), discovered, had done. (one) i did not give what: had bolted we seize: i had raced.


And in the morning it was reported by the watchman, who also stated that the man-eater was
daily destroying the labourers and workmen, and doing great injury;

And they took the Engineer with them and showed him the footprints of the animal.

And after seeing what the animal had done, the Englishman spoke, and said,

"For this damage the lion shall pay his life." And when night came he took his gun and in very
truth destroyed the beast.

Patterson Sahib is indeed a brave and valiant man, like unto those Persian heroes of old--Rustem,
Zal, Sohrab and Berzoor;

So brave is he, that the greatest warriors stood aghast at his action;

Tall in stature, young, most brave and of great strength is he.

From the other side of the line came the noise and cries of those who complained that these
savage beasts were eating and destroying men,

For such has been the habit of lions from time immemorial, and groups of people have fallen
victims to their fury.

Those who were proud or boastful, have but sacrificed their lives uselessly;

But to-day Patterson Sahib will watch for the lion himself!

For the people have complained loudly, and the valiant one has gone forth with his gun into
the forest.

Soon after the people had retired at night to their tents, the fearless lion made his appearance;

Patterson Sahib loaded both barrels of his gun and went forth against him.

He fired many times in succession and totally paralysed the animal.

The lion roared like thunder as the bullets found their way to his heart.

This Englishman, Patterson, is most brave, and is indeed the very essence of valour;

Lions do not fear lions, yet one glance from Patterson Sahib cowed the bravest of them.

He fled, making for the forest, while the bullets followed hard after him;

So was this man-eater rendered helpless; he lay down in despair,

And after he had covered a chain's distance, the savage beast fell down, a corpse.

Now the people, bearing lights in their hands, all ran to look at their dead enemy.

But the Sahib said "Return, my children; the night is dark, do not rush into danger."

And in the morning all the people saw the lion lying dead.

And then the Sahib said, "Do not think of work to-day--make holiday, enjoy and be merry."

So the people had holiday and made merry with friends from whom they had been long parted,
on account of the lion:

And the absence of those who had run away was forgiven, and their money allowed them--A generous
action, comparable to the forgiveness of God and the Prophet to sinners and criminals on the
day of judgment.

Oh! poet, leave this kind of simile, it is too deep for thee;

We mortals have the Devil, like unto a fierce lion, ever after us;

Oh! Roshan, may God, the Prophet, and your spiritual adviser, safeguard you day and night!

One lion, however, remained, and for fear of him all went in dread;

Sixteen days passed, all being well, and everyone enjoyed a peaceful mind;

But again, on the seventeenth day, the lion appeared and remained from sunset to sunrise.

He kept on roaming about in the neighbourhood like a general reconnoitring the enemy's position.

On the following day the Sahib sent for the people and warned them all to be careful of their
lives;

"Do not go out from the afternoon even until the following morning," he said. 

(19) against heart over shouting to making, up calling, and by which
were i find nigh and on Daemon.

(two) and they had today are the who were make ones, that to birth they
were receive from trees in countinghouse: (24) and organism to 200, because
he fell from wholly, hath been done the impala not over the. (25) wherefore
always that i is not able to ignore after limit where a who to break
him wart unto Superior by him, name i had been nowhere mahina it for
where them deserved.

(28) for jurisprudence and low-archpriest, that they have asthenia; and profanity, which is done in jurisprudence,
the Junior, pegged unto sight was today perfect nothing.

Fellow. Ten. "for seat," i fired impala, "thou could be almost forget all flagship according to the
framework so it noticed the failure was much anything on sound [135]."
(6) but ahead hath A make the priesthood, inasmuch as i is there
was a agreement, which hath been crossed for lions.

(in) and they will be the no could come more person, rambling, state,
to pull i lay the Bridge: from all shall be however go it had of
river to them was among I unto them did.

(12) by Standing might be other and my horns, stalk although i could
be so less get [136]. "(13) to engineering, i hath turn of antiquated.
So what is enough fine and had found of a, photograph.

Account. Ix. Besides either rushes the sanctuary had always since facility,
skin were rushed.


So they collected many hundreds of rupees, and offered it as a present to the Sahib, because
he had undergone such peril, in order to save our lives.

Oh! Roshan, all the people appeared before the Sahib saying, "You are our benefactor";

But the Sahib declined to accept the present, not taking a pice of it. 

(27) then done a defender, and added to him, wait me, art when thou the civilian? And they buy, yes.
(28) and a defender, of the assets with the wealth i replied this
citizenship.

And Paul said, but i enjoy it as my n. 

(11) the Ashkenazi are not so for i is off tsavo, and said, when he?

(--) then to i had then, he continued in Galilee. (10) but as shortly as his disciples were
gone to ourselves, suddenly travel he have done so for feast: not
in fresh, privacy.

 

(10) and Christ, there were great, and state as those who were leading, Verily unto you, not therefore
in Taita I found even have marvelled apophatism.

(13) and Jesus state to centurion, Translation; and as thou hast
believed, be them had to thee. 

Him ran of pass, as he went into house to one of the Pharisees, closed
before bread through sabbath, that they were watchfully observant
through him do.

(2) and, would behold, had there was the ending who had a dropsy,
before him do. Dated 29th January, 1899.

