    "When Adam delved and Eve span,
     Who was then the gentleman?"

Shakespeare refers to it in "Hamlet," where the grave-diggers speak as follows:

       "First Clown. Come, my spade. There is no ancient gentleman
     but gardners, ditchers and grave-makers; they hold up Adam's
     profession.

       Second Clown. Was he a gentleman?

       First Clown. He was the first that ever bore arms.

       Second Clown. Why, he had none.

       First Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand
     the Scripture? The Scripture says, Adam digged; could he dig
     without arms?"
                (Act 5, Sc. 1.)

That Shakespeare's caricature of Tyler's rebellion is a fair indication of his view of all
popular risings appears from the remarks addressed by Westmoreland to the Archbishop of York
in the Second Part of "Henry IV." (Act 4, Sc. 1). Says he:

              "If that rebellion
    Came like itself, in base and abject routs,
    Led on by bloody youth, guarded with rags,
    And countenanced by boys and beggary;
    I say if damned commotion so appeared,
    In his true, native, and most proper shape,
    You, Reverend Father, and these noble lords
    Had not been here to dress the ugly form
    Of base and bloody insurrection
    With your fair honors."

The first and last of Shakespeare's English historical plays, "King John" and "Henry VIII.,"
lie beyond the limits of the civil wars, and each of them treats of a period momentous in the
annals of English liberty, a fact which Shakespeare absolutely ignores. John as king had two
great misfortunes--he suffered disgrace at the hands of his barons and of the pope. The first
event, the wringing of Magna Charta from the king, Shakespeare passes over. A sense of national
pride might have excused the omission of the latter humiliation, but no, it was a triumph of
authority, and as such Shakespeare must record it for the edification of his hearers, and consequently
we have the king presented on the stage as meekly receiving the crown from the papal legate
(Act 5, Sc. 1). England was freed from the Roman yoke in the reign of Henry VIII., and in the
drama of that name Shakespeare might have balanced the indignity forced upon King John, but
now he is silent. Nothing must be said against authority, even against that of the pope, and
the play culminates in the pomp and parade of the christening of the infant Elizabeth! Such
is Shakespeare's conception of history! Who could guess from reading these English historical
plays that throughout the period which they cover English freedom was growing, that justice
and the rights of man were asserting themselves, while despotism was gradually curbed and limited?
This is the one great glory of English history, exhibiting itself at Runnymede, reflected in
Wyclif and John Ball and Wat Tyler, and shining dimly in the birth of a national church under
the eighth Henry. As Shakespeare wrote, it was preparing for a new and conspicuous outburst.
When he died, Oliver Cromwell was already seventeen years of age and John Hampden twenty-two.
The spirit of Hampden was preeminently the English spirit--the spirit which has given distinction
to the Anglo-Saxon race--and he and Shakespeare were contemporaries, and yet of this spirit
not a vestige is to be found in the English historical plays and no opportunities lost to obliterate
or distort its manifestations. Only in Brutus and his fellow-conspirators--of all Shakespearian
characters--do we find the least consideration for liberty, and even then he makes the common,
and perhaps in his time the unavoidable, mistake of overlooking the genuinely democratic leanings
of Julius Cæsar and the anti-popular character of the successful plot against him.

It has in all ages been a pastime of noble minds to try to depict a perfect state of society.
Forty years before Shakespeare's birth, Sir Thomas More published his "Utopia" to the world.
Bacon intended to do the same thing in the "New Atlantis," but never completed the work, while
Sir Philip Sidney gives us his dream in his "Arcadia."

We may readily infer that Shakespeare found little to sympathize with in this somewhat extravagant
outline of a happy nation, but he goes out of his way to travesty it. Yet he would be king on't.

       Antonia.

       Seb. No marrying 'mong his subjects?

       Ant. None, man; all idle, whores, and knaves.

       Gon. I would with such perfection govern, sir,
     To 'xcel the golden age.

       Seb. 'Save his Majesty!

       Ant. Long live Gonzalo!

       Gon. And do you mark me, sir?

       King. Pr'ythee, no more; thou dost talk nothing to me.

       Gon. I do well believe your Highness; and did it to
     minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such
     sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh
     at nothing.

       Ant. 'Twas you we laughed at.

       Gon. Who, in this kind of merry fooling, am nothing
     to you; so you may continue and laugh at nothing still."
                (Tempest, Act 2, Sc. 1.)

That all things are not for the best in the best of all possible worlds would seem to result
from the wise remarks made by the fishermen who enliven the scene in "Pericles, Prince of Tyre."
They compare landlords to whales who swallow up everything, and suggest that the land be purged
of "these drones that rob the bee of her honey"; and Pericles, so far from being shocked at
such revolutionary and vulgar sentiments, is impressed by their weight, and speaks kindly of
the humble philosophers, who in their turn are hospitable to the shipwrecked prince--all of
which un-Shakespearian matter adds doubt to the authenticity of this drama (Act 2, Sc. 1).

However keen the insight of Shakespeare may have been into the hearts of his high-born characters,
he had no conception of the unity of the human race. For him the prince and the peasant were
not of the same blood.

           "For princes are
    A model, which heaven makes like to itself,"

says King Simonides in "Pericles," and here at least we seem to see the hand of Shakespeare
(Act 2, Sc. 2). The two princes, Guiderius and Arviragus, brought up secretly in a cave, show
their royal origin (Cymbeline, Act 3, Sc. 3), and the servants who see Coriolanus in disguise
are struck by his noble figure (Coriolanus, Act 4, Sc. 5). Bastards are villains as a matter
of course, witness Edmund in "Lear" and John in "Much Ado about Nothing," and no degree of
contempt is too high for a

          "hedge-born swain
    That doth presume to boast of gentle blood."
                (Henry VI., Part 1, Act 4, Sc. 1.)

Courage is only to be expected in the noble-born. The Duke of York says:

    "Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man,
     And find no harbor in a royal heart."
                (Henry VI., Part 2, Act 3, Sc. 1.)

In so far as the lower classes had any relation to the upper classes, it
was one, thought Shakespeare, of dependence and obligation. It was not
the tiller of the soil who fed the lord of the manor, but rather the
lord who supported the peasant. Does not the king have to lie awake and
take thought for his subjects?
                (Henry V., Act 4, Sc. 1.)

And these lines occur at the end of a passage in which the king laments the "ceremony" that
oppresses him and confesses that but for it he would be "but a man." He makes this admission,
however, in a moment of danger and depression.

But plain people have to watch at times, and the French sentinel finds occasion to speak in
the same strain:

         "Thus are poor servitors
    (When others sleep upon their quiet beds)
    Constrained to watch in darkness, rain, and cold."
                (Henry VI., Part 3, Act 2, Sc. 5.)

All of which is natural enough, but savors of cant in the mouths of men who fought long and
hard to maintain themselves upon their thrones.

We have already shown by references to the contemporary drama that the plea of custom is not
sufficient to explain Shakespeare's attitude to the lower classes, but if we widen our survey
to the entire field of English letters in his day, we shall see that he was running counter
to all the best traditions of our literature. From the time of Piers Plowman down, the peasant
had stood high with the great writers of poetry and prose alike. Chaucer's famous circle of
story-tellers at the Tabard Inn in Southwark was eminently democratic. With the knight and
the friar were gathered together

    "An haberdasher and a carpenter,
     A webbe, a deyer and tapiser,"

and the tales of the cook and the miller take rank with those of the squire and lawyer. The
English Bible, too, was in Shakespeare's hands, and he must have been familiar with shepherd
kings and fishermen-apostles. In the very year in which "Hamlet" first appeared, a work was
published in Spain which was at once translated into English, a work as well known to-day as
Shakespeare's own writings. If the peasantry was anywhere to be neglected and despised, where
should it be rather than in proud, aristocratic Spain, and yet, to place beside Shakespeare's
Bottoms and Slys, Cervantes has given us the admirable Sancho Panza, and has spread his loving
humor in equal measure over servant and master. Are we to believe that the yeomen of England,
who beat back the Armada, were inferior to the Spanish peasantry whom they overcame, or is
it not rather true that the Spanish author had a deeper insight into his country's heart than
was allotted to the English dramatist? Cervantes, the soldier and adventurer, rose above the
prejudices of his class, while Shakespeare never lifted his eyes beyond the narrow horizon
of the Court to which he catered. It was love that opened Cervantes's eye, and it is in all-embracing
love that Shakespeare was deficient. As far as the common people were concerned, he never held
the mirror up to nature.

But the book of all others which might have suggested to Shakespeare that there was more in
the claims of the lower classes than was dreamt of in his philosophy was More's "Utopia," which
in its English form was already a classic. More, the richest and most powerful man in England
after the king, not only believed in the workingman, but knew that he suffered from unjust
social conditions. He could never have represented the down-trodden followers of Cade-Tyler
nor the hungry mob in "Coriolanus" with the utter lack of sympathy which Shakespeare manifests.
"What justice is there in this," asks the great Lord Chancellor, whose character stood the
test of death--"what justice is there in this, that a nobleman, a goldsmith, a banker, or any
other man, that either does nothing at all or at best is employed in things that are of no
use to the public, should live in great luxury and splendor upon what is so ill acquired; and
a mean man, a carter, a smith, a plowman, that works harder even than the beasts themselves,
and is employed on labors so necessary that no commonwealth could hold out a year without them,
can only earn so poor a livelihood, and must lead so miserable a life, that the condition of
the beasts is much better than theirs?"

How different from this is Shakespeare's conception of the place of the workingman in society!
After a full and candid survey of his plays, Bottom, the weaver with the ass's head, remains
his type of the artizan and the "mutable, rank-scented many," his type of the masses. Is it
unfair to take the misshapen "servant-monster" Caliban as his last word on the subject?

      "Prospero. We'll visit Caliban my slave who never
    Yields us kind answer.

      Miranda. 'Tis a villain, sir,
    I do not love to look on.

      Prospero. (Tempest, Act 1, Sc. 2.)

To which I would fain reply in the words of Edward Carpenter:

    "Who art thou ...
     With thy faint sneer for him who wins thee bread
     And him who clothes thee, and for him who toils
     Day-long and night-long dark in the earth for thee?"

LETTER FROM MR. G. BERNARD SHAW

(Extracts)

As you know, I have striven hard to open English eyes to the emptiness of Shakespeare's philosophy,
to the superficiality and second-handedness of his morality, to his weakness and incoherence
as a thinker, to his snobbery, his vulgar prejudices, his ignorance, his disqualifications
of all sorts for the philosophic eminence claimed for him.... The preface to my "Three Plays
for Puritans" contains a section headed "Better than Shakespeare?" which is, I think, the only
utterance of mine on the subject to be found in a book.... There is at present in the press
a new preface to an old novel of mine called "The Irrational Knot." In that preface I define
the first order in Literature as consisting of those works in which the author, instead of
accepting the current morality and religion ready-made without any question as to their validity,
writes from an original moral standpoint of his own, thereby making his book an original contribution
to morals, religion, and sociology, as well as to belles letters. I place Shakespeare with
Dickens, Scott, Dumas père, etc., in the second order, because, tho they are enormously entertaining,
their morality is ready-made; and I point out that the one play, "Hamlet," in which Shakespeare
made an attempt to give as a hero one who was dissatisfied with the ready-made morality, is
the one which has given the highest impression of his genius, altho Hamlet's revolt is unskillfully
and inconclusively suggested and not worked out with any philosophic competence.[4]

May I suggest that you should be careful not to imply that Tolstoy's great Shakespearian heresy
has no other support than mine. The preface of Nicholas Rowe to his edition of Shakespeare,
and the various prefaces of Dr. Johnson contain, on Rowe's part, an apology for him as a writer
with obvious and admitted shortcomings (very ridiculously ascribed by Rowe to his working by
"a mere light of nature"), and, on Johnson's, a good deal of downright hard-hitting criticism.
You should also look up the history of the Ireland forgeries, unless, as is very probable,
Tolstoy has anticipated you in this. Among nineteenth-century poets Byron and William Morris
saw clearly that Shakespeare was enormously overrated intellectually. A French book, which
has been translated into English, has appeared within the last ten years, giving Napoleon's
opinions of the drama. His insistence on the superiority of Corneille to Shakespeare on the
ground of Corneille's power of grasping a political situation, and of seeing men in their relation
to the state, is interesting.

Of course you know about Voltaire's criticisms, which are the more noteworthy because Voltaire
began with an extravagant admiration for Shakespeare, and got more and more bitter against
him as he grew older and less disposed to accept artistic merit as a cover for philosophic
deficiencies.

Finally, I, for one, shall value Tolstoy's criticism all the more because it is criticism of
a foreigner who can not possibly be enchanted by the mere word-music which makes Shakespeare
so irresistible in England.[5] In Tolstoy's estimation, Shakespeare must fall or stand as a
thinker, in which capacity I do not think he will stand a moment's examination from so tremendously
keen a critic and religious realist. Unfortunately, the English worship their great artists
quite indiscriminately and abjectly; so that is quite impossible to make them understand that
Shakespeare's extraordinary literary power, his fun, his mimicry, and the endearing qualities
that earned him the title of "the gentle Shakespeare"--all of which, whatever Tolstoy may say,
are quite unquestionable facts--do not stand or fall with his absurd reputation as a thinker.
Tolstoy will certainly treat that side of his reputation with the severity it deserves; and
you will find that the English press will instantly announce that Tolstoy considers his own
works greater than Shakespeare's (which in some respects they most certainly are, by the way),
and that he has attempted to stigmatize our greatest poet as a liar, a thief, a forger, a murderer,
an incendiary, a drunkard, a libertine, a fool, a madman, a coward, a vagabond, and even a
man of questionable gentility. You must not be surprised or indignant at this: it is what is
called "dramatic criticism" in England and America. Only a few of the best of our journalist-critics
will say anything worth reading on the subject.

        Yours faithfully,
                G. BERNARD SHAW.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Besides the prefaces here referred to, Mr. G. Bernard Shaw has at various times written
other articles on the subject.--(V. T.)

[5] It should be borne in mind that this letter was written before Mr. G. B. Shaw had seen
the essay in question, by Tolstoy, now published in this volume.--(V. T.)

      "No one will peruse a page without laying down the book a
     better and a wiser man."--Dundee Courier.

     Tolstoy's Essays and Letters

     By LEO TOLSTOY

     Translated by AYLMER MAUDE

     This work contains twenty-six essays and letters (many
     published for the first time) belonging to the last fifteen
     years of Tolstoy's career, the period in which he has
     devoted himself exclusively to humanitarian labors.
     Therefore each has a definite altruistic purpose. In the
     letters in particular we have, in the words of the
     translator, "Tolstoy's opinions in application to certain
     definite conditions. They thus help to bridge the gulf
     between theory and practise."

     HIGHLY COMMENDED

          "The subjects are varied, and present Tolstoy's
          well-known views in his always forceful
          manner."--The Outlook.

          "It contains the Russian philosopher and
          philanthropist's best thought, and furnishes
          considerable insight into his wonderful
          personality."--The Mirror, St. Louis.

          "For those who wish to be well instructed in
          Tolstoyana this handy little book will be
          invaluable."--Brooklyn Eagle.

          "These essays form an admirable introduction to
          Tolstoy's philosophy."--Western Daily Mercury,
          Plymouth, Eng.

     12mo, Cloth, 372 pp. Price, $1.00, post-paid

     FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
     NEW YORK and LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

     Tolstoy's Plays

     Also Annotated List of Works

     This volume, a new translation by Louise and Aylmer Maude,
     contains Tolstoy's three great plays, together with the
     Russian folk-tale of which one of them is the dramatized
     version. It also includes a complete annotated and
     chronological list of Tolstoy's works of special
     helpfulness to all readers and students of the great
     Russian writer.

     LIST OF THE PLAYS

     =The Power of Darkness=; or, If a Claw is Caught the Bird
     is Lost--A drama in five acts.

     =The First Distiller=--A comedy in six acts.

     =Fruits of Culture=--A comedy in four acts.

     INCLUDING ALSO

     =The Imp and the Crust=--This is a Russian folk-tale, of
     which "The First Distiller" is the dramatized version.

     =Their High Literary and Dramatic Value=

     To their literary merit Tolstoy's plays add the quality of
     being excellent acting dramas, as their success both in
     Russia and elsewhere has abundantly shown. Mr. Laurence
     Irving lately wrote: "I suppose England is the only country
     in Europe where 'The Power of Darkness' has not been acted.
     It ought to be done. It is a stupendous tragedy; the effect
     on the stage is unparalleled."

     =Their Wide Range of Sentiment=

     "Between Tolstoy's two great plays," says the translator,
     "'The Power of Darkness' and 'The Fruits of Culture,' the
     contrast is very striking. The first is intensely moral,
     terrible in its earnestness and force.... Very different is
     'Fruits of Culture,' a play brimful of laughter and
     merriment."

     Handsomely printed on deckle-edge paper, gilt-top,
     half-tone frontispiece, showing Anisya and Nikita in "The
     Power of Darkness," cover design in gold, extra-quality
     ribbed olive cloth, 250 + xii pages. Price $1.50,
     post-paid.

     FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY
     New York PUBLISHERS London

       *       *       *       *       *

     A CLEAR AND HOPEFUL EXPOSITION OF TOLSTOY'S TEACHINGS

          "Students of the master will find this little book
          indispensable."--San Francisco News-Letter.

     Tolstoy and His Problems

     Essays by AYLMER MAUDE

     Each essay in this volume expresses, in one form or other,
     Tolstoy's views of life; and the main object of the book is
     not to praise his views, but to explain them. Being the
     only Englishman who in recent years has had the advantage
     of intimate personal intercourse, continued over a period
     of some years, with Tolstoy, Mr. Maude is well qualified
     for his present work.

     CONTENTS

     Biography of Tolstoy      |  Introduction to "The Slavery
     Tolstoy's Teachings       |    of Our Times"
     An Introduction to "What  |  The Tsar's Coronation
       Is Art?"                |  Right and Wrong
     How "Resurrection" Was    |  War and Patriotism
       Written                 |  Talks With Tolstoy

          "Any one who takes up this delightful series of
          essays will not willingly lay it down without at
          least the determination to finish it."--British
          Friend.

          "Mr. Maude's long and intimate acquaintance with
          Tolstoy enables him to speak with knowledge
          probably not possessed by any other
          Englishman."--Morning Post.

     12mo, Cloth, 220 pages. Price, $1.00

     FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
     NEW YORK and LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

     Sevastopol

     AND OTHER MILITARY TALES

     By LEO TOLSTOY

     A new translation by Louise and Aylmer Maude, specially
     approved by the author. This book relates the author's own
     experiences, sensations, and reflections during the most
     noted siege of modern history. The translation has been
     authorized by Count Tolstoy, who has specially commended it
     for its accuracy, simplicity, and directness.

          "No other modern book approaches 'Sevastopol' in
          the completeness and directness with which it
          unveils the realities of war. There are
          picturesque glimpses in Mr. Kipling's vulgar
          stories of fighting. But the strongest meat Mr.
          Kipling can provide is milk for babes beside Count
          Tolstoy's seemingly casual sketches, which yet
          comprehend with merciless amplitude the whole
          atmosphere of war."--The Morning Leader, London.

     What Count Tolstoy Says of the Translators and
     Translation

     "Better translators, both for knowledge of the two
     languages and for penetration into the very meaning of the
     matter translated, could not be invented." Of their
     translation of Sevastopol, Tolstoy also says: "I think I
     already wrote you how unusually the first volume of your
     edition pleases me. All in it is excellent: the edition and
     the remarks, and chiefly the translation, and yet more the
     conscientiousness with which all this has been done."

     (This book is not for sale by us in Great Britain.)

     FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
     NEW YORK and LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

     Three New Stories by Count Leo Tolstoy, Written for the
     Benefit of the Kishinef Sufferers. Publisher's and Author's
     Profits are to go to the Kishinef Relief Fund

     ESARHADDON

     King of Assyria, and Other Stories

     By COUNT LEO TOLSTOY

     Translated by Louise and Aylmer Maude, with an
     Introduction Containing Letters by Tolstoy

     =Esarhaddon, King of Assyria.= An allegorical story with an
     Oriental setting, telling how a cruel king was made to feel
     and understand the sufferings of one of his captives, and
     to repent his own cruelty.

     =Work, Death, and Sickness.= A legend accredited to the
     South American Indians, showing the three means God took to
     make men more kind and brotherly toward each other.

     =Three Questions.= A quaint folk-lore tale answering the
     three questions of life: "What is the Best Time?" "Who Are
     the Most Important Persons?" "What Thing Should be Done
     First?"

     OPINION OF THE PRESS

          St. Louis Globe-Democrat: "Count Tolstoy is a
          man so sure of his message and so clear about it
          that he always finds something worth while to
          say.... There is a quality in the little tales
          published under the title 'Esarhaddon' which is
          quickly suggestive of certain Biblical narratives.
          There is one called 'Three Questions,' which
          contains, in half a dozen pages, an entire
          philosophy of life, and it is presented in such
          apt pictures and ideas that its meaning is not to
          be overlooked. It would be hard to suggest
          anything that could be read in five minutes that
          would impart so much to think about. 'Esarhaddon,'
          the sketch from which the volume takes its name,
          is of the same character, and the third tale,
          'Work, Death, and Sickness,' is full of very fine
          thought. There is, perhaps, no writer working
          to-day whose mind is centered on broader and
          better things than the Russian master, and the
          present offering shows him at his very best."

     "Hour-Glass Stories." Dainty 12mo, Cloth, Frontispiece,
     Ornamental Cover, 40 cents, Postpaid

     FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers
     NEW YORK and LONDON

       *       *       *       *       *

     What Is Art?

     Translated from the Original Manuscript, with an
     Introduction by AYLMER MAUDE

     Art is a human activity, declares Tolstoy. The object of
     this activity is to transmit to others feelings the artist
     has experienced. By certain external signs--movements,
     lines, colors, sounds or arrangements of words--an artist
     infects other people so that they share his feelings; thus,
     "art is a means of union among men, joining them together
     in the same feeling." Without adequate expression there is
     no art, for there is no infection, no transference to
     others of the author's feeling. The test of art is
     infection. If an author has moved you so that you feel as
     he felt, if you are so united to him in feeling that it
     seems to you that he has expressed just what you have long
     wished to express, the work that has so infected you is a
     work of art.

     A POWERFUL WORK FULL OF GENIUS AND ORIGINALITY

          "The powerful personality of the author, the
          startling originality of his views, grip the
          reader and carry him, though his deepest
          convictions be outraged, protesting through the
          book."--Pall Mall Gazette.

          "The discussion is bound to shake the whole world
          to its very center, and to result in a
          considerable readjustment of
          theories."--Pittsburg Times.

          "It is the ablest and most scholarly writing of a
          great thinker."--Chicago Inter Ocean.

          "No recent book on the subject is so novel, so
          readable, or so questionable."--New York Times
          Saturday Review.                       |
  | Page 9: Closing quotes moved from after "says Brandes" to    |
  | follow "... at the sight."                                   |
  | Page 20: strangset amended to strangest                      |
  | Page 56: insteading amended to instead                       |
  | Page 72: be amended to he ("he begins")                      |
  | Page 80: "... the then fashionable euphemism": There is a    |
  | possibility that "euphuism" should have been used, rather    |
  | than "euphemism."                                            |
  | Page 96: Closing quotes added after "... an artistic         |
  | impression."                                                 |
  | Page 102: Beaudelaire sic                                  |
  | Page 165: Mirander amended to Miranda                        |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+