A prevalent feature in these compositions was a nursed and petted melancholy; another was a
wasteful and opulent gush of "fine language"; another was a tendency to lug in by the ears
particularly prized words and phrases until they were worn entirely out; and a peculiarity
that conspicuously marked and marred them was the inveterate and intolerable sermon that wagged
its crippled tail at the end of each and every one of them. No matter what the subject might
be, a brain-racking effort was made to squirm it into some aspect or other that the moral and
religious mind could contemplate with edification. The glaring insincerity of these sermons
was not sufficient to compass the banishment of the fashion from the schools, and it is not
sufficient to-day; it never will be sufficient while the world stands, perhaps. There is no
school in all our land where the young ladies do not feel obliged to close their compositions
with a sermon; and you will find that the sermon of the most frivolous and the least religious
girl in the school is always the longest and the most relentlessly pious. But enough of this.
Homely truth is unpalatable.

Let us return to the "Examination." The first composition that was read was one entitled "Is
this, then, Life?" Perhaps the reader can endure an extract from it:

  "In the common walks of life, with what delightful
   emotions does the youthful mind look forward to some
   anticipated scene of festivity! Imagination is busy
   sketching rose-tinted pictures of joy. In fancy, the
   voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the
   festive throng, 'the observed of all observers.' Her
   graceful form, arrayed in snowy robes, is whirling
   through the mazes of the joyous dance; her eye is
   brightest, her step is lightest in the gay assembly.

  "In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by,
   and the welcome hour arrives for her entrance into
   the Elysian world, of which she has had such bright
   dreams. How fairy-like does everything appear to
   her enchanted vision! Each new scene is more charming
   than the last. But after a while she finds that
   beneath this goodly exterior, all is vanity, the
   flattery which once charmed her soul, now grates
   harshly upon her ear; the ball-room has lost its
   charms; and with wasted health and imbittered heart,
   she turns away with the conviction that earthly
   pleasures cannot satisfy the longings of the soul!"

And so forth and so on. There was a buzz of gratification from time to time during the reading,
accompanied by whispered ejaculations of "How sweet!" "How eloquent!" "So true!" etc., and
after the thing had closed with a peculiarly afflicting sermon the applause was enthusiastic.

Then arose a slim, melancholy girl, whose face had the "interesting" paleness that comes of
pills and indigestion, and read a "poem." Two stanzas of it will do:

   "A MISSOURI MAIDEN'S FAREWELL TO ALABAMA

   "Alabama, good-bye! I love thee well!
      But yet for a while do I leave thee now!
    Sad, yes, sad thoughts of thee my heart doth swell,
      And burning recollections throng my brow!
    For I have wandered through thy flowery woods;
      Have roamed and read near Tallapoosa's stream;
    Have listened to Tallassee's warring floods,
      And wooed on Coosa's side Aurora's beam.
    Welcome and home were mine within this State,
      Whose vales I leave--whose spires fade fast from me
    And cold must be mine eyes, and heart, and tete,
      When, dear Alabama! they turn cold on thee!"

There were very few there who knew what "tete" meant, but the poem was very satisfactory, nevertheless.

Next appeared a dark-complexioned, black-eyed, black-haired young lady, who paused an impressive
moment, assumed a tragic expression, and began to read in a measured, solemn tone:

  "A VISION

   "Dark and tempestuous was night. Around the
   throne on high not a single star quivered; but
   the deep intonations of the heavy thunder
   constantly vibrated upon the ear; whilst the
   terrific lightning revelled in angry mood
   through the cloudy chambers of heaven, seeming
   to scorn the power exerted over its terror by
   the illustrious Franklin! Even the boisterous
   winds unanimously came forth from their mystic
   homes, and blustered about as if to enhance by
   their aid the wildness of the scene.

   "At such a time, so dark, so dreary, for human
   sympathy my very spirit sighed; but instead thereof,

   "'My dearest friend, my counsellor, my comforter
   and guide--My joy in grief, my second bliss
   in joy,' came to my side. She moved like one of
   those bright beings pictured in the sunny walks
   of fancy's Eden by the romantic and young, a
   queen of beauty unadorned save by her own
   transcendent loveliness. So soft was her step, it
   failed to make even a sound, and but for the
   magical thrill imparted by her genial touch, as
   other unobtrusive beauties, she would have glided
   away un-perceived--unsought. A strange sadness
   rested upon her features, like icy tears upon
   the robe of December, as she pointed to the
   contending elements without, and bade me contemplate
   the two beings presented."

This nightmare occupied some ten pages of manuscript and wound up with a sermon so destructive
of all hope to non-Presbyterians that it took the first prize. This composition was considered
to be the very finest effort of the evening. The mayor of the village, in delivering the prize
to the author of it, made a warm speech in which he said that it was by far the most "eloquent"
thing he had ever listened to, and that Daniel Webster himself might well be proud of it.

It may be remarked, in passing, that the number of compositions in which the word "beauteous"
was over-fondled, and human experience referred to as "life's page," was up to the usual average.

Now the master, mellow almost to the verge of geniality, put his chair aside, turned his back
to the audience, and began to draw a map of America on the blackboard, to exercise the geography
class upon. But he made a sad business of it with his unsteady hand, and a smothered titter
rippled over the house. He knew what the matter was, and set himself to right it. He sponged
out lines and remade them; but he only distorted them more than ever, and the tittering was
more pronounced. He threw his entire attention upon his work, now, as if determined not to
be put down by the mirth. He felt that all eyes were fastened upon him; he imagined he was
succeeding, and yet the tittering continued; it even manifestly increased. And well it might.
There was a garret above, pierced with a scuttle over his head; and down through this scuttle
came a cat, suspended around the haunches by a string; she had a rag tied about her head and
jaws to keep her from mewing; as she slowly descended she curved upward and clawed at the string,
she swung downward and clawed at the intangible air. The tittering rose higher and higher--the
cat was within six inches of the absorbed teacher's head--down, down, a little lower, and she
grabbed his wig with her desperate claws, clung to it, and was snatched up into the garret
in an instant with her trophy still in her possession! And how the light did blaze abroad from
the master's bald pate--for the sign-painter's boy had GILDED it!

That broke up the meeting. The boys were avenged. Vacation had come.

   NOTE:--The pretended "compositions" quoted in
   this chapter are taken without alteration from a
   volume entitled "Prose and Poetry, by a Western
   Lady"--but they are exactly and precisely after
   the schoolgirl pattern, and hence are much
   happier than any mere imitations could be.

CHAPTER XXII

