Then she too fell silent. Perhaps it was the inevitable effect of life on the farm, or perhaps,
as she sometimes said, it was because Ethan "never listened." The charge was not wholly unfounded.
When she spoke it was only to complain, and to complain of things not in his power to remedy;
and to check a tendency to impatient retort he had first formed the habit of not answering
her, and finally of thinking of other things while she talked. Of late, however, since he had
reasons for observing her more closely, her silence had begun to trouble him. He recalled his
mother's growing taciturnity, and wondered if Zeena were also turning "queer." Women did, he
knew. Zeena, who had at her fingers' ends the pathological chart of the whole region, had cited
many cases of the kind while she was nursing his mother; and he himself knew of certain lonely
farm-houses in the neighbourhood where stricken creatures pined, and of others where sudden
tragedy had come of their presence. At times, looking at Zeena's shut face, he felt the chill
of such forebodings. At other times her silence seemed deliberately assumed to conceal far-reaching
intentions, mysterious conclusions drawn from suspicions and resentments impossible to guess.
That supposition was even more disturbing than the other; and it was the one which had come
to him the night before, when he had seen her standing in the kitchen door.

Now her departure for Bettsbridge had once more eased his mind, and all his thoughts were on
the prospect of his evening with Mattie. Only one thing weighed on him, and that was his having
told Zeena that he was to receive cash for the lumber. He foresaw so clearly the consequences
of this imprudence that with considerable reluctance he decided to ask Andrew Hale for a small
advance on his load.

When Ethan drove into Hale's yard the builder was just getting out of his sleigh.

"Hello, Ethe!" he said. "This comes handy."

Andrew Hale was a ruddy man with a big gray moustache and a stubbly double-chin unconstrained
by a collar; but his scrupulously clean shirt was always fastened by a small diamond stud.
This display of opulence was misleading, for though he did a fairly good business it was known
that his easygoing habits and the demands of his large family frequently kept him what Starkfield
called "behind." He was an old friend of Ethan's family, and his house one of the few to which
Zeena occasionally went, drawn there by the fact that Mrs. Hale, in her youth, had done more
"doctoring" than any other woman in Starkfield, and was still a recognised authority on symptoms
and treatment.

Hale went up to the grays and patted their sweating flanks.

"Well, sir," he said, "you keep them two as if they was pets."

Ethan set about unloading the logs and when he had finished his job he pushed open the glazed
door of the shed which the builder used as his office. Hale sat with his feet up on the stove,
his back propped against a battered desk strewn with papers: the place, like the man, was warm,
genial and untidy.

"Sit right down and thaw out," he greeted Ethan.

The latter did not know how to begin, but at length he managed to bring out his request for
an advance of fifty dollars. The blood rushed to his thin skin under the sting of Hale's astonishment.
It was the builder's custom to pay at the end of three months, and there was no precedent between
the two men for a cash settlement.

Ethan felt that if he had pleaded an urgent need Hale might have made shift to pay him; but
pride, and an instinctive prudence, kept him from resorting to this argument. After his father's
death it had taken time to get his head above water, and he did not want Andrew Hale, or any
one else in Starkfield, to think he was going under again. Besides, he hated lying; if he wanted
the money he wanted it, and it was nobody's business to ask why. He therefore made his demand
with the awkwardness of a proud man who will not admit to himself that he is stooping; and
he was not much surprised at Hale's refusal.

The builder refused genially, as he did everything else: he treated the matter as something
in the nature of a practical joke, and wanted to know if Ethan meditated buying a grand piano
or adding a "cupolo" to his house; offering, in the latter case, to give his services free of cost.

Ethan's arts were soon exhausted, and after an embarrassed pause he wished Hale good day and
opened the door of the office. As he passed out the builder suddenly called after him: "See
here--you ain't in a tight place, are you?"

"Not a bit," Ethan's pride retorted before his reason had time to intervene.

"Well, that's good! Because I am, a shade. Fact is, I was going to ask you to give me a little
extra time on that payment. Business is pretty slack, to begin with, and then I'm fixing up
a little house for Ned and Ruth when they're married. I'm glad to do it for 'em, but it costs."
His look appealed to Ethan for sympathy. "The young people like things nice. You know how it
is yourself: it's not so long ago since you fixed up your own place for Zeena."

Ethan left the grays in Hale's stable and went about some other business in the village. As
he walked away the builder's last phrase lingered in his ears, and he reflected grimly that
his seven years with Zeena seemed to Starkfield "not so long."

The afternoon was drawing to an end, and here and there a lighted pane spangled the cold gray
dusk and made the snow look whiter. The bitter weather had driven every one indoors and Ethan
had the long rural street to himself. Suddenly he heard the brisk play of sleigh-bells and
a cutter passed him, drawn by a free-going horse. Ethan recognised Michael Eady's roan colt,
and young Denis Eady, in a handsome new fur cap, leaned forward and waved a greeting. "Hello,
Ethe!" he shouted and spun on.

The cutter was going in the direction of the Frome farm, and Ethan's heart contracted as he
listened to the dwindling bells. What more likely than that Denis Eady had heard of Zeena's
departure for Bettsbridge, and was profiting by the opportunity to spend an hour with Mattie?
Ethan was ashamed of the storm of jealousy in his breast. It seemed unworthy of the girl that
his thoughts of her should be so violent.

He walked on to the church corner and entered the shade of the Varnum spruces, where he had
stood with her the night before. As he passed into their gloom he saw an indistinct outline
just ahead of him. At his approach it melted for an instant into two separate shapes and then
conjoined again, and he heard a kiss, and a half-laughing "Oh!" provoked by the discovery of
his presence. Again the outline hastily disunited and the Varnum gate slammed on one half while
the other hurried on ahead of him. Ethan smiled at the discomfiture he had caused. What did
it matter to Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum if they were caught kissing each other? Everybody in
Starkfield knew they were engaged. It pleased Ethan to have surprised a pair of lovers on the
spot where he and Mattie had stood with such a thirst for each other in their hearts; but he
felt a pang at the thought that these two need not hide their happiness.

He fetched the grays from Hale's stable and started on his long climb back to the farm. The
cold was less sharp than earlier in the day and a thick fleecy sky threatened snow for the
morrow. Here and there a star pricked through, showing behind it a deep well of blue. In an
hour or two the moon would push over the ridge behind the farm, burn a gold-edged rent in the
clouds, and then be swallowed by them. A mournful peace hung on the fields, as though they
felt the relaxing grasp of the cold and stretched themselves in their long winter sleep.

