"Under favour, my Lord," said Tristan, with his usual brutality of manner, "the youth must
find another guide. I cannot do without Petit Andre, when there is so like to be business on
hand for him."

"The young man," said Petit Andre, now coming forward, "has only to keep the path which lies
straight before him, and it will conduct him to a place where he will find the man who is to
act as his guide.

"I would not for a thousand ducats be absent from my Chief this day I have hanged knights and
esquires many a one, and wealthy Echevins [during the Middle Ages royal officers possessing
a large measure of power in local administration], and burgomasters to boot--even counts and
marquises have tasted of my handiwork but, a-humph"--he looked at the Duke, as if to intimate
that he would have filled up the blank with "a Prince of the Blood!"

"Ho, ho, ho! Petit Andre, thou wilt be read of in Chronicle!"

"Do you permit your ruffians to hold such language in such a presence?" said Crawford, looking
sternly to Tristan.

"Why do you not correct him yourself, my Lord?" said Tristan, sullenly.

"Because thy hand is the only one in this company that can beat him without being degraded
by such an action."

"Then rule your own men, my Lord, and I will be answerable for mine," said the Provost Marshal.

Lord Crawford seemed about to give a passionate reply, but as if he had thought better of it,
turned his back short upon Tristan, and, requesting the Duke of Orleans and Dunois to ride
one on either hand of him, he made a signal of adieu to the ladies, and said to Quentin, "God
bless thee, my child, thou hast begun thy service valiantly, though in an unhappy cause."

He was about to go off when Quentin could hear Dunois whisper to Crawford, "Do you carry us
to Plessis?"

"No, my unhappy and rash friend," answered Crawford, with a sigh, "to Loches."

"To Loches!" The name of a castle, or rather prison, yet more dreaded than Plessis itself,
fell like a death toll upon the ear of the young Scotchman. He had heard it described as a
place destined to the workings of those secret acts of cruelty with which even Louis shamed
to pollute the interior of his own residence. There were in this place of terror dungeons under
dungeons, some of them unknown even to the keepers themselves, living graves, to which men
were consigned with little hope of farther employment during the rest of their life than to
breathe impure air, and feed on bread and water. At this formidable castle were also those
dreadful places of confinement called cages, in which the wretched prisoner could neither stand
upright nor stretch himself at length, an invention, it is said, of the Cardinal Balue [who
himself tenanted one of these dens for more than eleven years. S. De Comines, who also suffered
this punishment, describes the cage as eight feet wide, and a foot higher than a man.]. It
is no wonder that the name of this place of horrors, and the consciousness that he had been
partly the means of dispatching thither two such illustrious victims, struck so much sadness
into the heart of the young Scot that he rode for some time with his head dejected, his eyes
fixed on the ground, and his heart filled with the most painful reflections.

As he was now again at the head of the little troop, and pursuing the road which had been pointed
out to him, the Lady Hameline had an opportunity to say to him, "Methinks, fair sir, you regret
the victory which your gallantry has attained in our behalf?"

There was something in the question which sounded like irony, but Quentin had tact enough to
answer simply and with sincerity.

"I can regret nothing that is done in the service of such ladies as you are, but, methinks,
had it consisted with your safety, I had rather have fallen by the sword of so good a soldier
as Dunois, than have been the means of consigning that renowned knight and his unhappy chief,
the Duke of Orleans, to yonder fearful dungeons."

"It was, then, the Duke of Orleans," said the elder lady, turning to her niece. "I thought
so, even at the distance from which we beheld the fray.--You see, kinswoman, what we might
have been, had this sly and avaricious monarch permitted us to be seen at his Court. The first
Prince of the Blood of France, and the valiant Dunois, whose name is known as wide as that
of his heroic father.--This young gentleman did his devoir bravely and well, but methinks 't
is pity that he did not succumb with honour, since his ill advised gallantry has stood betwixt
us and these princely rescuers."

The Countess Isabelle replied in a firm and almost a displeased tone, with an energy, in short,
which Quentin had not yet observed her use. She said, "but that I know you jest, I would say
your speech is ungrateful to our brave defender, to whom we owe more, perhaps, than you are
aware of. Had these gentlemen succeeded so far in their rash enterprise as to have defeated
our escort, is it not still evident, that, on the arrival of the Royal Guard, we must have
shared their captivity? For my own part, I give tears, and will soon bestow masses, on the
brave man who has fallen, and I trust" (she continued, more timidly) "that he who lives will
accept my grateful thanks."

As Quentin turned his face towards her, to return the fitting acknowledgments, she saw the
blood which streamed down on one side of his face, and exclaimed, in a tone of deep feeling,
"Holy Virgin, he is wounded! he bleeds!--Dismount, sir, and let your wound be bound!"

In spite of all that Durward could say of the slightness of his hurt he was compelled to dismount,
and to seat himself on a bank, and unhelmet himself, while the Ladies of Croye, who, according
to a fashion not as yet antiquated, pretended some knowledge of leech craft, washed the wound,
stanched the blood, and bound it with the kerchief of the younger Countess in order to exclude
the air, for so their practice prescribed.

In modern times, gallants seldom or never take wounds for ladies' sake, and damsels on their
side never meddle with the cure of wounds. Each has a danger the less. That which the men escape
will be generally acknowledged, but the peril of dressing such a slight wound as that of Quentin's,
which involved nothing formidable or dangerous, was perhaps as real in its way as the risk
of encountering it.

We have already said the patient was eminently handsome, and the removal of his helmet, or
more properly, of his morion, had suffered his fair locks to escape in profusion, around a
countenance in which the hilarity of youth was qualified by a blush of modesty at once and
pleasure. And then the feelings of the younger Countess, when compelled to hold the kerchief
to the wound, while her aunt sought in their baggage for some vulnerary remedy, were mingled
at once with a sense of delicacy and embarrassment, a thrill of pity for the patient, and of
gratitude for his services, which exaggerated, in her eyes, his good mien and handsome features.
In short, this incident seemed intended by Fate to complete the mysterious communication which
she had, by many petty and apparently accidental circumstances, established betwixt two persons,
who, though far different in rank and fortune, strongly resembled each other in youth, beauty,
and the romantic tenderness of an affectionate disposition. It was no wonder, therefore, that
from this moment the thoughts of the Countess Isabelle, already so familiar to his imagination,
should become paramount in Quentin's bosom, nor that if the maiden's feelings were of a less
decided character, at least so far as known to herself, she should think of her young defender,
to whom she had just rendered a service so interesting, with more emotion than of any of the
whole band of high born nobles who had for two years past besieged her with their adoration.
Above all, when the thought of Campobasso, the unworthy favourite of Duke Charles, with his
hypocritical mien, his base, treacherous spirit, his wry neck and his squint, occurred to her,
his portrait was more disgustingly hideous than ever, and deeply did she resolve no tyranny
should make her enter into so hateful a union.

In the meantime, whether the good Lady Hameline of Croye understood and admired masculine beauty
as much as when she was fifteen years younger (for the good Countess was at least thirty-five,
if the records of that noble house speak the truth), or whether she thought she had done their
young protector less justice than she ought, in the first view which she had taken of his services,
it is certain that he began to find favour in her eyes.

"My niece," she said, "has bestowed on you a kerchief for the binding of your wound, I will
give you one to grace your gallantry, and to encourage you in your farther progress in chivalry."

So saying, she gave him a richly embroidered kerchief of blue and silver, and pointing to the
housing of her palfrey, and the plumes in her riding cap, desired him to observe that the colours
were the same.

The fashion of the time prescribed one absolute mode of receiving such a favour, which Quentin
followed accordingly by tying the napkin around his arm, yet his manner of acknowledgment had
more of awkwardness, and loss of gallantry in it, than perhaps it might have had at another
time, and in another presence, for though the wearing of a lady's favour, given in such a manner,
was merely matter of general compliment, he would much rather have preferred the right of displaying
on his arm that which bound the wound inflicted by the sword of Dunois.

Meantime they continued their pilgrimage, Quentin now riding abreast of the ladies, into whose
society he seemed to be tacitly adopted. He did not speak much, however, being filled by the
silent consciousness of happiness, which is afraid of giving too strong vent to its feelings.
The Countess Isabelle spoke still less, so that the conversation was chiefly carried on by
the Lady Hameline, who showed no inclination to let it drop, for, to initiate the young Archer,
as she said, into the principles and practice of chivalry, she detailed to him at full length
the Passage of Arms at Haflinghem, where she had distributed the prizes among the victors.

Not much interested, I am sorry to say, in the description of this splendid scene, or in the
heraldic bearings of the different Flemish and German knights, which the lady blazoned with
pitiless accuracy, Quentin began to entertain some alarm lest he should have passed the place
where his guide was to join him--a most serious disaster, from which, should it really have
taken place, the very worst consequences were to be apprehended.

While he hesitated whether it would be better to send back one of his followers to see whether
this might not be the case, he heard the blast of a horn, and looking in the direction from
which the sound came, beheld a horseman riding very fast towards them. The low size, and wild,
shaggy, untrained state of the animal, reminded Quentin of the mountain breed of horses in
his own country, but this was much more finely limbed, and, with the same appearance of hardiness,
was more rapid in its movements. The head particularly, which, in the Scottish pony, is often
lumpish and heavy, was small and well placed in the neck of this animal, with thin jaws, full
sparkling eyes, and expanded nostrils.

The rider was even more singular in his appearance than the horse which he rode, though that
was extremely unlike the horses of France. Although he managed his palfrey with great dexterity,
he sat with his feet in broad stirrups, something resembling shovels, so short in the leathers
that his knees were well nigh as high as the pommel of his saddle. His dress was a red turban
of small size, in which he wore a sullied plume, secured by a clasp of silver, his tunic, which
was shaped like those of the Estradiots (a sort of troops whom the Venetians at that time levied
in the provinces on the eastern side of their gulf), was green in colour, and tawdrily laced
with gold, he wore very wide drawers or trowsers of white, though none of the cleanest, which
gathered beneath the knee, and his swarthy legs were quite bare, unless for the complicated
laces which bound a pair of sandals on his feet, he had no spurs, the edge of his large stirrups
being so sharp as to serve to goad the horse in a very severe manner. In a crimson sash this
singular horseman wore a dagger on the right side, and on the left a short crooked Moorish
sword, and by a tarnished baldric over the shoulder hung the horn which announced his approach.
He had a swarthy and sunburnt visage, with a thin beard, and piercing dark eyes, a well formed
mouth and nose, and other features which might have been pronounced handsome, but for the black
elf locks which hung around his face, and the air of wildness and emaciation, which rather
seemed to indicate a savage than a civilized man.

"He also is a Bohemian!" said the ladies to each other. "Holy Mary, will the King again place
confidence in these outcasts?"

"I will question the man, if it be your pleasure," said Quentin, "and assure myself of his
fidelity as I best may."

Durward, as well as the Ladies of Croye, had recognised in this man's dress and appearance
the habit and the manners of those vagrants with whom he had nearly been confounded by the
hasty proceedings of Trois Eschelles and Petit Andre, and he, too, entertained very natural
apprehensions concerning the risk of reposing trust in one of that vagrant race.

"Art thou come hither to seek us?" was his first question. The stranger nodded. "And for what
purpose?"

"To guide you to the Palace of Him of Liege."

"Of the Bishop?"

The Bohemian again nodded.

"What token canst thou give me that we should yield credence to thee?"

"Even the old rhyme, and no other," answered the Bohemian.

     "The page slew the boar,
     The peer had the gloire."

"A true token," said Quentin, "lead on, good fellow--I will speak farther with thee presently."

Then falling back to the ladies, he said, "I am convinced this man is the guide we are to expect,
for he hath brought me a password, known, I think, but to the King and me. But I will discourse
with him farther, and endeavour to ascertain how far he is to be trusted."

     THE CONQUEST OF GRENADA

While Quentin held the brief communication with the ladies necessary to assure them that this
extraordinary addition to their party was the guide whom they were to expect on the King's
part, he noticed (for he was as alert in observing the motions of the stranger, as the Bohemian
could be on his part) that the man not only turned his head as far back as he could to peer
at them, but that, with a singular sort of agility, more resembling that of a monkey than of
a man, he had screwed his whole person around on the saddle so as to sit almost sidelong upon
the horse, for the convenience, as it seemed, of watching them more attentively.

Not greatly pleased with this manoeuvre, Quentin rode up to the Bohemian and said to him, as
he suddenly assumed his proper position on the horse, "Methinks, friend, you will prove but
a blind guide, if you look at the tail of your horse rather than his ears."

"And if I were actually blind," answered the Bohemian, "I could not the less guide you through
any county in this realm of France, or in those adjoining to it."

"Yet you are no Frenchman," said the Scot.

"I am not," answered the guide.

"What countryman, then, are you," demanded Quentin.

"I am of no country," answered the guide.

"How! of no country?" repeated the Scot.

"No," answered the Bohemian, "of none. I am a Zingaro, a Bohemian, an Egyptian, or whatever
the Europeans, in their different languages, may choose to call our people, but I have no country."

"Are you a Christian?" asked the Scotchman.

The Bohemian shook his head.

"Dog," said Quentin (for there was little toleration in the spirit of Catholicism in those
days), "dost thou worship Mahoun?"

[Mahoun: Mohammed. It was a remarkable feature of the character of these wanderers that they
did not, like the Jews whom they otherwise resembled in some particulars, possess or profess
any particular religion, whether in form or principle. They readily conformed, as far as might
be required, with the religion of any country in which they happened to sojourn, but they did
not practise it more than was demanded of them.... S.]

"No," was the indifferent and concise answer of the guide, who neither seemed offended nor
surprised at the young man's violence of manner.

"Are you a Pagan, then, or what are you?"

"I have no religion," answered the Bohemian.

Durward started back, for though he had heard of Saracens and Idolaters, it had never entered
into his ideas or belief that any body of men could exist who practised no mode of worship
whatever. He recovered from his astonishment to ask his guide where he usually dwelt.

"Wherever I chance to be for the time," replied the Bohemian. "I have no home."

"How do you guard your property?"

"Excepting the clothes which I wear, and the horse I ride on, I have no property."

"Yet you dress gaily, and ride gallantly," said Durward. "What are your means of subsistence?"

"I eat when I am hungry, drink when I am thirsty, and have no other means of subsistence than
chance throws in my Way," replied the vagabond.

"Under whose laws do you live?"

"I acknowledge obedience to none, but an it suits my pleasure or my necessities," said the
Bohemian.

"Who is your leader, and commands you?"

"The father of our tribe--if I choose to obey him," said the guide, "otherwise I have no commander."

"You are, then," said the wondering querist, "destitute of all that other men are combined
by--you have no law, no leader, no settled means of subsistence, no house or home. You have,
may Heaven compassionate you, no country--and, may Heaven enlighten and forgive you, you have
no God! What is it that remains to you, deprived of government, domestic happiness, and religion?"

"I have liberty," said the Bohemian "I crouch to no one, obey no one--respect no one--I go
where I will--live as I can--and die when my day comes."

"But you are subject to instant execution, at the pleasure of the Judge?"

"Be it so," returned the Bohemian, "I can but die so much the sooner."

"And to imprisonment also," said the Scot, "and where, then, is your boasted freedom?"

"In my thoughts," said the Bohemian, "which no chains can bind, while yours, even when your
limbs are free, remain fettered by your laws and your superstitions, your dreams of local attachment,
and your fantastic visions of civil policy. Such as I are free in spirit when our limbs are
chained.--You are imprisoned in mind even when your limbs are most at freedom."

"Yet the freedom of your thoughts," said the Scot, "relieves not the pressure of the gyves
on your limbs."

"For a brief time that may be endured," answered the vagrant, "and if within that period I
cannot extricate myself, and fail of relief from my comrades, I can always die, and death is
the most perfect freedom of all."

There was a deep pause of some duration, which Quentin at length broke by resuming his queries.

"Yours is a wandering race, unknown to the nations of Europe.--Whence do they derive their origin?"

"I may not tell you," answered the Bohemian.

"When will they relieve this kingdom from their presence, and return to the land from whence
they came?" said the Scot.

"When the day of their pilgrimage shall be accomplished," replied his vagrant guide.

"Are you not sprung from those tribes of Israel which were carried into captivity beyond the
great river Euphrates?" said Quentin, who had not forgotten the lore which had been taught
him at Aberbrothick.

"Had we been so," answered the Bohemian, "we had followed their faith and practised their rites."

"What is thine own name?" said Durward.

"My proper name is only known to my brethren. The men beyond our tents call me Hayraddin Maugrabin--that
is, Hayraddin the African Moor."

"Thou speakest too well for one who hath lived always in thy filthy horde," said the Scot.

"I have learned some of the knowledge of this land," said Hayraddin. "When I was a little boy,
our tribe was chased by the hunters after human flesh. An arrow went through my mother's head,
and she died. I was entangled in the blanket on her shoulders, and was taken by the pursuers.
A priest begged me from the Provost's archers, and trained me up in Frankish learning for two
or three years."

"How came you to part with him?" demanded Durward.

"I stole money from him--even the God which he worshipped," answered Hayraddin, with perfect
composure, "he detected me, and beat me--I stabbed him with my knife, fled to the woods, and
was again united to my people."

"Wretch!" said Durward, "did you murder your benefactor?"

"What had he to do to burden me with his benefits?--The Zingaro boy was no house bred cur,
to dog the heels of his master, and crouch beneath his blows, for scraps of food:--He was the
imprisoned wolf whelp, which at the first opportunity broke his chain, rended his master, and
returned to his wilderness."

There was another pause, when the young Scot, with a view of still farther investigating the
character and purpose of this suspicious guide, asked Hayraddin whether it was not true that
his people, amid their ignorance, pretended to a knowledge of futurity which was not given
to the sages, philosophers, and divines of more polished society.

"We pretend to it," said Hayraddin, "and it is with justice."

"How can it be that so high a gift is bestowed on so abject a race?" said Quentin.

"Can I tell you?" answered Hayraddin.--"Yes, I may indeed, but it is when you shall explain
to me why the dog can trace the footsteps of a man, while man, the nobler animal, hath not
power to trace those of the dog. These powers, which seem to you so wonderful, are instinctive
in our race. From the lines on the face and on the hand, we can tell the future fate of those
who consult us, even as surely as you know from the blossom of the tree in spring what fruit
it will bear in the harvest."

"I doubt of your knowledge, and defy you to the proof."

"Defy me not, Sir Squire," said Hayraddin Maugrabin. "I can tell you that, say what you will
of your religion, the Goddess whom you worship rides in this company."

"Peace!" said Quentin, in astonishment, "on thy life, not a word farther, but in answer to
what I ask thee.--Canst thou be faithful?"

"I can--all men can," said the Bohemian.

"But wilt thou be faithful?"

"Wouldst thou believe me the more should I swear it?" answered Maugrabin, with a sneer.

"Thy life is in my hand," said the young Scot.

"Strike, and see whether I fear to die," answered the Bohemian.

"Will money render thee a trusty guide?" demanded Durward.

"If I be not such without it, no," replied the heathen.

"Then what will bind thee?" asked the Scot.

"Kindness," replied the Bohemian.

"Shall I swear to show thee such, if thou art true guide to us on this pilgrimage?"

"No," replied Hayraddin, "it were extravagant waste of a commodity so rare. To thee I am bound
already."

"How?" exclaimed Durward, more surprised than ever.

"Remember the chestnut trees on the banks of the Cher! The victim whose body thou didst cut
down was my brother, Zamet the Maugrabin."

"And yet," said Quentin, "I find you in correspondence with those very officers by whom your
brother was done to death, for it was one of them who directed me where to meet with you--the
same, doubtless, who procured yonder ladies your services as a guide."

"What can we do?" answered Hayraddin, gloomily. "These men deal with us as the sheepdogs do
with the flock, they protect us for a while, drive us hither and thither at their pleasure,
and always end by guiding us to the shambles."

Quentin had afterwards occasion to learn that the Bohemian spoke truth in this particular,
and that the Provost guard, employed to suppress the vagabond bands by which the kingdom was
infested, entertained correspondence among them, and forbore, for a certain time, the exercise
of their duty, which always at last ended in conducting their allies to the gallows. This is
a sort of political relation between thief and officer, for the profitable exercise of their
mutual professions, which has subsisted in all countries, and is by no means unknown to our own.

Durward, parting from the guide, fell back to the rest of the retinue, very little satisfied
with the character of Hayraddin, and entertaining little confidence in the professions of gratitude
which he had personally made to him. He proceeded to sound the other two men who had been assigned
him for attendants, and he was concerned to find them stupid and as unfit to assist him with
counsel, as in the rencounter they had shown themselves reluctant to use their weapons.

"It is all the better," said Quentin to himself, his spirit rising with the apprehended difficulties
of his situation, "that lovely young lady shall owe all to me. What one hand--ay, and one head
can do--methinks I can boldly count upon. I have seen my father's house on fire, and he and
my brothers lying dead amongst the flames--I gave not an inch back, but fought it out to the
last. Now I am two years older, and have the best and fairest cause to bear me well that ever
kindled mettle within a brave man's bosom."

Acting upon this resolution, the attention and activity which Quentin bestowed during the journey
had in it something that gave him the appearance of ubiquity. His principal and most favourite
post was of course by the side of the ladies, who, sensible of his extreme attention to their
safety, began to converse with him in almost the tone of familiar friendship, and appeared
to take great pleasure in the naivete, yet shrewdness, of his conversation. Yet Quentin did
not suffer the fascination of this intercourse to interfere with the vigilant discharge of
his duty.

If he was often by the side of the Countesses, labouring to describe to the natives of a level
country the Grampian mountains, and, above all, the beauties of Glen Houlakin, he was as often
riding with Hayraddin in the front of the cavalcade, questioning him about the road and the
resting places, and recording his answers in his mind, to ascertain whether upon cross examination
he could discover anything like meditated treachery. As often again he was in the rear, endeavouring
to secure the attachment of the two horsemen by kind words, gifts, and promises of additional
recompense, when their task should be accomplished.

In this way they travelled for more than a week, through bypaths and unfrequented districts,
and by circuitous routes, in order to avoid large towns. Nothing remarkable occurred, though
they now and then met strolling gangs of Bohemians, who respected them, as under the conduct
of one of their tribe--straggling soldiers, or perhaps banditti, Who deemed their party too
strong to be attacked--or parties of the Marechaussee [mounted police], as they would now be
termed, whom Louis, who searched the wounds of the land with steel and cautery, employed to
suppress the disorderly bands which infested the interior. These last suffered them to pursue,
their way unmolested by virtue of a password with which Quentin had been furnished for that
purpose by the King himself.

Their resting places were chiefly the monasteries, most of which were obliged by the rules
of their foundation to receive pilgrims, under which character the ladies travelled, with hospitality
and without any troublesome inquiries into their rank and character, which most persons of
distinction were desirous of concealing while in the discharge of their vows. The pretence
of weariness was usually employed by the Countesses of Croye as an excuse for instantly retiring
to rest, and Quentin, as their majordomo, arranged all that was necessary betwixt them and
their entertainers, with a shrewdness which saved them all trouble, and an alacrity that failed
not to excite a corresponding degree of good will on the part of those who were thus sedulously
attended to.

One circumstance gave Quentin peculiar trouble, which was the character and nation of his guide,
who, as a heathen and an infidel vagabond, addicted besides to occult arts (the badge of all
his tribe), was often looked upon as a very improper guest for the holy resting places at which
the company usually halted, and was not in consequence admitted within even the outer circuit
of their walls, save with extreme reluctance. This was very embarrassing, for, on the one hand,
it was necessary to keep in good humour a man who was possessed of the secret of their expedition,
and, on the other, Quentin deemed it indispensable to maintain a vigilant though secret watch
on Hayraddin's conduct, in order that, as far as might be, he should hold no communication
with any one without being observed. This of course was impossible, if the Bohemian was lodged
without the precincts of the convent at which they stopped, and Durward could not help thinking
that Hayraddin was desirous of bringing about this latter arrangement for, instead of keeping
himself still and quiet in the quarters allotted to him, his conversation, tricks, and songs
were at the same time so entertaining to the novices and younger brethren, and so unedifying
in the opinion of the seniors of the fraternity, that, in more cases than one, it required
all the authority, supported by threats, which Quentin could exert over him, to restrain his
irreverent and untimeous jocularity, and all the interest he could make with the Superiors,
to prevent the heathen hound from being thrust out of the doors. He succeeded, however, by
the adroit manner in which he apologized for the acts of indecorum committed by their attendant,
and the skill with which he hinted the hope of his being brought to a better sense of principles
and behaviour, by the neighbourhood of holy relics, consecrated buildings, and, above all,
of men dedicated to religion.

But upon the tenth or twelfth day of their journey, after they had entered Flanders, and were
approaching the town of Namur, all the efforts of Quentin became inadequate to suppress the
consequences of the scandal given by his heathen guide. The scene was a Franciscan convent,
and of a strict and reformed order, and the Prior a man who afterwards died in the odour of
sanctity. After rather more than the usual scruples (which were indeed in such a case to be
expected) had been surmounted, the obnoxious Bohemian at length obtained quarters in an out
house inhabited by a lay brother, who acted as gardener. The ladies retired to their apartment,
as usual, and the Prior, who chanced to have some distant alliances and friends in Scotland,
and who was fond of hearing foreigners tell of their native countries, invited Quentin, with
whose mien and conduct he seemed much pleased, to a slight monastic refection in his own cell.
Finding the Father a man of intelligence, Quentin did not neglect the opportunity of making
himself acquainted with the state of affairs in the country of Liege, of which, during the
last two days of their journey, he had heard such reports as made him very apprehensive for
the security of his charge during the remainder of their route, nay, even of the Bishop's power
to protect them, when they should be safely conducted to his residence. The replies of the
Prior were not very consolatory.

He said that the people of Liege were wealthy burghers, who, like Jeshurun [a designation for
Israel] of old, had waxed fat and kicked--that they were uplifted in heart because of their
wealth and their privileges--that they had divers disputes with the Duke of Burgundy, their
liege lord, upon the subject of imports and immunities and that they had repeatedly broken
out into open mutiny, whereat the Duke was so much incensed, as being a man of a hot and fiery
nature, that he had sworn, by Saint George, on the next provocation, he would make the city
of Liege like to the desolation of Babylon and the downfall of Tyre, a hissing and a reproach
to the whole territory of Flanders. Ezekiel xxvi, 21.]

"And he is a prince by all report likely to keep such a vow," said Quentin, "so the men of
Liege will probably beware how they give him occasion."

"It were to be so hoped," said the Prior, "and such are the prayers of the godly in the land,
who would not that the blood of the citizens were poured forth like water, and that they should
perish, even as utter castaways, ere they make their peace with Heaven. Also the good Bishop
labours night and day to preserve peace, as well becometh a servant of the altar, for it is
written in Holy Scripture, Beati pacifici. But"--Here the good Prior stopped, with a deep sigh.

Quentin modestly urged the great importance of which it was to the ladies whom he attended,
to have some assured information respecting the internal state of the country, and what an
act of Christian charity it would be, if the worthy and reverend Father would enlighten them
upon that subject.

"It is one," said the Prior, "on which no man speaks with willingness, for those who speak
evil of the powerful, etiam in cubiculo [even in the bed chamber], may find that a winged thing
shall carry the matter to his ears. Nevertheless, to render you, who seem an ingenuous youth,
and your ladies, who are devout votaresses accomplishing a holy pilgrimage, the little service
that is in my power, I will be plain with you."

He then looked cautiously round and lowered his voice, as if afraid of being overheard.

"The people of Liege," he said, "are privily instigated to their frequent mutinies by men of
Belial [in the Bible this term is used as an appellative of Satan], who pretend, but, as I
hope, falsely, to have commission to that effect from our most Christian King, whom, however,
I hold to deserve that term better than were consistent with his thus disturbing the peace
of a neighbouring state. Yet so it is, that his name is freely used by those who uphold and
inflame the discontents at Liege. There is, moreover, in the land, a nobleman of good descent,
and fame in warlike affairs, but otherwise, so to speak, Lapis offensionis et petra scandali--and
a stumbling block of offence to the countries of Burgundy and Flanders. His name is William
de la Marck."

"Called William with the Beard," said the young Scot, "or the Wild Boar of Ardennes?"

"And rightly so called, my son," said the Prior, "because he is as the wild boar of the forest,
which treadeth down with his hoofs and rendeth with his tusks. And he hath formed to himself
a band of more than a thousand men, all, like himself, contemners of civil and ecclesiastical
authority, and holds himself independent of the Duke of Burgundy, and maintains himself and
his followers by rapine and wrong, wrought without distinction upon churchmen and laymen. Imposuit
manus in Christos Domini--he hath stretched forth his hand upon the anointed of the Lord, regardless
of what is written, 'Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no wrong.'--Even to our poor
house did he send for sums of gold and sums of silver, as a ransom for our lives, and those
of our brethren, to which we returned a Latin supplication, stating our inability to answer
his demand, and exhorting him in the words of the preacher, Ne moliaris amico tuo malum, cum
habet in te fiduciam [devise not evil against thy neighbour who dwelleth by thee in security].
Nevertheless, this Guilielmus Barbatus, this William de la Marck, as completely ignorant of
humane letters as of humanity itself, replied, in his ridiculous jargon, Si non payatis, brulabo
monasterium vestrum [if you do not pay, I will burn your monastery. A similar story is told
of the Duke of Vendome, who answered in this sort of macaronic Latin the classical expostulations
of a German convent against the imposition of a contribution. S.]."

"Of which rude Latin, however, you, my good father," said the youth, "were at no loss to conceive
the meaning?"

"Alas! my son," said the Prior, "Fear and Necessity are shrewd interpreters, and we were obliged
to melt down the silver vessels of our altar to satisfy the rapacity of this cruel chief. May
Heaven requite it to him seven fold! Pereat improbus--Amen, amen, anathema esto! [let the wicked
perish. Let him be anathema! 'In pronouncing an anathema against a person, the church excludes
him from her communion; and he must, if he continue obstinate, perish eternally.' Cent. Dict.]"

"I marvel," said Quentin, "that the Duke of Burgundy, who is so strong and powerful, doth not
bait this boar to purpose, of whose ravages I have already heard so much."

"Alas! my son," said the Prior, "the Duke Charles is now at Peronne, assembling his captains
of hundreds and his captains of thousands, to make war against France, and thus, while Heaven
hath set discord between the hearts of those great princes, the country is misused by such
subordinate oppressors. But it is in evil time that the Duke neglects the cure of these internal
gangrenes, for this William de la Marck hath of late entertained open communication with Rouslaer
and Pavillon, the chiefs of the discontented at Liege, and it is to be feared he will soon
stir them up to some desperate enterprise."

"But the Bishop of Liege," said Quentin, "he hath still power enough to subdue this disquieted
and turbulent spirit--hath he not, good father? Your answer to this question concerns me much."

"The Bishop, my child," replied the Prior, "hath the sword of Saint Peter, as well as the keys.
He hath power as a secular prince, and he hath the protection of the mighty House of Burgundy,
he hath also spiritual authority as a prelate, and he supports both with a reasonable force--of
good soldiers and men at arms. This William de la Marck was bred in his household, and bound
to him by many benefits. But he gave vent, even in the court of the Bishop, to his fierce and
bloodthirsty temper, and was expelled thence for a homicide committed on one of the Bishop's
chief domestics. From thenceforward, being banished from the good Prelate's presence, he hath
been his constant and unrelenting foe, and now, I grieve to say, he hath girded his loins,
and strengthened his horn against him."

"You consider, then, the situation of the worthy Prelate as being dangerous?" said Quentin,
very, anxiously.

"Alas! my son," said the good Franciscan, "what or who is there in this weary wilderness, whom
we may not hold as in danger? But Heaven forefend I should speak of the reverend Prelate as
one whose peril is imminent. He has much treasure, true counsellors, and brave soldiers, and,
moreover, a messenger who passed hither to the eastward yesterday saith that the Duke of Burgundy
hath dispatched, upon the Bishop's request, an hundred men at arms to his assistance. This
reinforcement, with the retinue belonging to each lance, are enough to deal with William de
la Marck, on whose name be sorrow!--Amen."

At this crisis their conversation was interrupted by the Sacristan, who, in a voice almost
inarticulate with anger, accused the Bohemian of having practised the most abominable arts
of delusion among the younger brethren. He had added to their nightly meal cups of a heady
and intoxicating cordial, of ten times the strength of the most powerful wine, under which
several of the fraternity had succumbed, and indeed, although the Sacristan had been strong
to resist its influence, they might yet see, from his inflamed countenance and thick speech,
that even he, the accuser himself, was in some degree affected by this unhallowed potation.
Moreover, the Bohemian had sung songs of worldly vanity and impure pleasures, he had derided
the cord of Saint Francis, made jest of his miracles, and termed his votaries fools and lazy
knaves. Lastly, he had practised palmistry, and foretold to the young Father Cherubin that
he was helped by a beautiful lady, who should make him father to a thriving boy.

The Father Prior listened to these complaints for some time in silence, as struck with mute
horror by their enormous atrocity. When the Sacristan had concluded, he rose up, descended
to the court of the convent, and ordered the lay brethren, on pain of the worst consequences
of spiritual disobedience, to beat Hayraddin out of the sacred precincts with their broom staves
and cart whips.

This sentence was executed accordingly, in the presence of Quentin Durward, who, however vexed
at the occurrence, easily saw that his interference would be of no avail.

The discipline inflicted upon the delinquent, notwithstanding the exhortations of the Superior,
was more ludicrous than formidable. The Bohemian ran hither and thither through the court,
amongst the clamour of voices, and noise of blows, some of which reached him not because purposely
misaimed, others, sincerely designed for his person, were eluded by his activity, and the few
that fell upon his back and shoulders he took without either complaint or reply. The noise
and riot was the greater, that the inexperienced cudgel players, among whom Hayraddin ran the
gauntlet, hit each other more frequently than they did him, till at length, desirous of ending
a scene which was more scandalous than edifying, the Prior commanded the wicket to be flung
open, and the Bohemian, darting through it with the speed of lightning, fled forth into the
moonlight. During this scene, a suspicion which Durward had formerly entertained, recurred
with additional strength. Hayraddin had, that very morning, promised to him more modest and
discreet behaviour than he was wont to exhibit, when they rested in a convent on their journey,
yet he had broken his engagement, and had been even more offensively obstreperous than usual.
Something probably lurked under this, for whatever were the Bohemian's deficiencies, he lacked
neither sense, nor, when he pleased, self command, and might it not be probable that he wished
to hold some communication, either with, his own horde or some one else, from which he was
debarred in the course of the day by the vigilance with which he was watched by Quentin, and
had recourse to this stratagem in order to get himself turned out of the convent?

No sooner did this suspicion dart once more through Quentin's mind, than, alert as he always
was in his motions, he resolved to follow his cudgelled guide, and observe (secretly if possible)
how he disposed of himself. Accordingly, when the Bohemian fled, as already mentioned, out
at the gate of the convent, Quentin, hastily explaining to the Prior the necessity of keeping
sight of his guide, followed in pursuit of him.

CHAPTER XVII: THE ESPIED SPY

     What, the rude ranger? and spied spy?--hands off--
     You are for no such rustics.

     BEN JONSON'S TALE OF ROBIN HOOD

When Quentin sallied from the convent, he could mark the precipitate retreat of the Bohemian,
whose dark figure was seen in the far moonlight flying with the speed of a flogged hound quite
through the street of the little village, and across the level meadow that lay beyond.

"My friend runs fast," said Quentin to himself, "but he must run faster yet, to escape the
fleetest foot that ever pressed the heather of Glen Houlakin!"

Being fortunately without his cloak and armour, the Scottish mountaineer was at liberty to
put forth a speed which was unrivalled in his own glens, and which, notwithstanding the rate
at which the Bohemian ran, was likely soon to bring his pursuer up with him. This was not,
however, Quentin's object, for he considered it more essential to watch Hayraddin's motions,
than to interrupt them. He was the rather led to this by the steadiness with which the Bohemian
directed his course, and which, continuing even after the impulse of the violent expulsion
had subsided, seemed to indicate that his career had some more certain goal for its object
than could have suggested itself to a person unexpectedly turned out of good quarters when
midnight was approaching, to seek a new place of repose. He never even looked behind him, and
consequently Durward was enabled to follow him unobserved. At length, the Bohemian having traversed
the meadow and attained the side of a little stream, the banks of which were clothed with alders
and willows, Quentin observed that he stood still, and blew a low note on his horn, which was
answered by a whistle at some little distance.

"This is a rendezvous," thought Quentin, "but how shall I come near enough to overhear the
import of what passes? The sound of my steps, and the rustling of the boughs through which
I must force my passage, will betray me, unless I am cautious--I will stalk them, by Saint
Andrew, as if they were Glen Isla deer--they shall learn that I have not conned woodcraft for
naught. Yonder they meet, the two shadows--and two of them there are--odds against me if I
am discovered, and if their purpose be unfriendly, as is much to be doubted. And then the Countess
Isabelle loses her poor friend--Well, and he were not worthy to be called such, if he were
not ready to meet a dozen in her behalf. Have I not crossed swords with Dunois, the best knight
in France, and shall I fear a tribe of yonder vagabonds? Pshaw!--God and Saint Andrew to friend,
they will find me both stout and wary."

Thus resolving, and with a degree of caution taught him by his silvan habits, our friend descended
into the channel of the little stream, which varied in depth, sometimes scarce covering his
shoes, sometimes coming up to his knees, and so crept along, his form concealed by the boughs
overhanging the bank, and his steps unheard amid the ripple of the water. (We have ourselves,
in the days of yore, thus approached the nest of the wakeful raven.) In this manner the Scot
drew near unperceived, until he distinctly heard the voices of those who were the subject of
his observation, though he could not distinguish the words. Being at this time under the drooping
branches of a magnificent weeping willow, which almost swept the surface of the water, he caught
hold of one of its boughs, by the assistance of which, exerting at once much agility, dexterity,
and strength, he raised himself up into the body of the tree, and sat, secure from discovery,
among the central branches.

From this situation he could discover that the person with whom Hayraddin was now conversing
was one of his own tribe, and at the same time he perceived, to his great disappointment, that
no approximation could enable him to comprehend their language, which was totally unknown to
him. They laughed much, and as Hayraddin made a sign of skipping about, and ended by rubbing
his shoulder with his hand, Durward had no doubt that he was relating the story of the bastinading
which he had sustained previous to his escape from the convent.

On a sudden, a whistle was again heard in the distance, which was once more answered by a low
tone or two of Hayraddin's horn. Presently afterwards, a tall, stout, soldierly looking man,
a strong contrast in point of thews and sinews to the small and slender limbed Bohemians, made
his appearance. He had a broad baldric over his shoulder, which sustained a sword that hung
almost across his person, his hose were much slashed, through which slashes was drawn silk,
or tiffany, of various colours, they were tied by at least five hundred points or strings,
made of ribbon, to the tight buff jacket which he wore, the right sleeve of which displayed
a silver boar's head, the crest of his Captain. A very small hat sat jauntily on one side of
his head, from which descended a quantity of curled hair, which fell on each side of a broad
face, and mingled with as broad a beard, about four inches long. He held a long lance in his
hand, and his whole equipment was that of one of the German adventurers, who were known by
the name of lanzknechts, in English, spearmen, who constituted a formidable part of the infantry
of the period. These mercenaries were, of course, a fierce and rapacious soldiery, and having
an idle tale current among themselves, that a lanzknecht was refused admittance into heaven
on account of his vices, and into hell on the score of his tumultuous, mutinous, and insubordinate
disposition, they manfully acted as if they neither sought the one nor eschewed the other.

"Donner and blitz! [thunder and lightning!]" was his first salutation, in a sort of German
French, which we can only imperfectly imitate, "Why have you kept me dancing in attendance
dis dree nights?"

"I could not see you sooner, Meinherr," said Hayraddin, very submissively, "there is a young
Scot, with as quick an eye as the wildcat, who watches my least motions. He suspects me already,
and, should he find his suspicion confirmed, I were a dead man on the spot, and he would carry
back the women into France again."

"Was henker! [what the deuce!]" said the lanzknecht, "we are three--we will attack them tomorrow,
and carry the women off without going farther. You said the two valets were cowards--you and
your comrade may manage them, and the Teufel [the devil] shall hold me, but I match your Scots
wildcat."

"You will find that foolhardy," said Hayraddin, "for besides that we ourselves count not much
in fighting, this spark hath matched himself with the best knight in France, and come off with
honour--I have seen those who saw him press Dunois hard enough."

"Hagel and sturmwetter! [hail and stormy weather!] It is but your cowardice that speaks," said
the German soldier.

"I am no more a coward than yourself," said Hayraddin "but my trade is not fighting.--If you
keep the appointment where it was laid, it is well--if not, I guide them safely to the Bishop's
Palace, and William de la Marck may easily possess himself of them there, provided he is half
as strong as he pretended a week since."

"Poz tausend! [Zounds!]" said the soldier, "we are as strong and stronger, but we hear of a
hundreds of the lances of Burgund,--das ist, see you,--five men to a lance do make five hundreds,
and then hold me the devil, they will be fainer to seek for us, than we to seek for them, for
der Bischoff hath a goot force on footing--ay, indeed!"

"You must then hold to the ambuscade at the Cross of the Three Kings, or give up the adventure,"
said the Bohemian.

"Geb up--geb up the adventure of the rich bride for our noble hauptman [leader or captain]--Teufel!
I will charge through hell first.--Mein soul, we will be all princes and hertzogs, whom they
call dukes, and we will hab a snab at the wein kellar [wine cellar], and at the mouldy French
crowns, and it may be at the pretty garces too [meaning the countesses], when He with de beard
is weary on them."

"The ambuscade at the Cross of the Three Kings then still holds?" said the Bohemian.

"Mein Gob ay,--you will swear to bring them there, and when they are on their knees before
the cross, and down from off their horses, which all men do, except such black heathens as
thou, we will make in on them and they are ours."

"Ay, but I promised this piece of necessary villainy only on one condition," said Hayraddin.--"I
will not have a hair of the young man's head touched. If you swear this to me, by your Three
Dead Men of Cologne, I will swear to you, by the Seven Night Walkers, that I will serve you
truly as to the rest. And if you break your oath, the Night Walkers shall wake you seven nights
from your sleep, between night and morning, and, on the eighth, they shall strangle and devour
you."

"But donner and bagel, what need you be so curious about the life of this boy, who is neither
your bloot nor kin?" said the German.

"No matter for that, honest Heinrick, some men have pleasure in cutting throats, some in keeping
them whole.--So swear to me, that you will spare him life and limb, or by the bright star Aldebaran,
this matter shall go no farther.--Swear, and by the Three Kings, as you call them, of Cologne--I
know you care for no other oath."

"Du bist ein comische man [thou art a droll fellow]," said the lanzknecht, "I swear."

"Not yet," said the Bohemian. "Face about, brave lanzknecht, and look to the east, else the
Kings may not hear you."

The soldier took the oath in the manner prescribed, and then declared that he would be in readiness,
observing the place was quite convenient, being scarce five miles from their present leaguer.

"But were it not making sure work to have a fahnlein [a regiment or company] of riders on the
other road, by the left side of the inn, which might trap them if they go that way?"

The Bohemian considered a moment, and then answered. "No--the appearance of their troops in
that direction might alarm the garrison of Namur, and then they would have a doubtful fight,
instead of assured success. Besides, they shall travel on the right bank of the Maes, for I
can guide them which way I will, for sharp as this same Scottish mountaineer is, he hath never
asked any one's advice, save mine, upon the direction of their route. Undoubtedly, I was assigned
to him by an assured friend, whose word no man mistrusts till they come to know him a little."

"Hark ye, friend Hayraddin," said the soldier, "I would ask you somewhat. You and your bruder
were, as you say yourself, gross sternen deuter, that is, star lookers and geister seers [seers
of ghosts]. Now, what henker was it made you not foresee him, your bruder Zamet, to be hanged?"

"I will tell you, Heinrick," said Hayraddin, "if I could have known my brother was such a fool
as to tell the counsel of King Louis to Duke Charles of Burgundy, I could have foretold his
death as sure as I can foretell fair weather in July. Louis hath both ears and hands at the
Court of Burgundy, and Charles's counsellors love the chink of French gold as well as thou
dost the clatter of a wine pot.--But fare thee well, and keep appointment--I must await my
early Scot a bow shot without the gate of the den of the lazy swine yonder, else will he think
me about some excursion which bodes no good to the success of his journey."

"Take a draught of comfort first," said the lanzknecht, tendering him a flask--"but I forget,
thou art beast enough to drink nothing but water, like a vile vassal of Mahound and Termagund
[the name of the god of the Saracens in medieaval romances where he is linked with Mahound]."

"Thou art thyself a vassal of the wine measure and the flagon," said the Bohemian. "I marvel
not that thou art only trusted with the bloodthirsty and violent part of executing what better
heads have devised.--He must drink no wine who would know the thoughts of others, or hide his
own. But why preach to thee, who hast a thirst as eternal as a sand bank in Arabia?

"Fare thee well. Take my comrade Tuisco with thee--his appearance about the monastery may breed
suspicion."

The two worthies parted, after each had again pledged himself to keep the rendezvous at the
Cross of the Three Kings. Quentin Durward watched until they were out of sight, and then descended
from his place of concealment, his heart throbbing at the narrow escape which he and his fair
charge had made--if, indeed, it could yet be achieved--from a deep laid plan of villainy. Afraid,
on his return to the monastery, of stumbling upon Hayraddin, he made a long detour, at the
expense of traversing some very rough ground, and was thus enabled to return to his asylum
on a different point from that by which he left it.

On the route, he communed earnestly with himself concerning the safest plan to be pursued.
He had formed the resolution, when he first heard Hayraddin avow his treachery, to put him
to death so soon as the conference broke up, and his companions were at a sufficient distance,
but when he heard the Bohemian express so much interest in saving his own life, he felt it
would be ungrateful to execute upon him, in its rigour, the punishment his treachery had deserved.
He therefore resolved to spare his life, and even, if possible, still to use his services as
a guide, under such precautions as should ensure the security of the precious charge, to the
preservation of which his own life was internally devoted.

But whither were they to turn?--The Countesses of Croye could neither obtain shelter in Burgundy,
from which they had fled, nor in France, from which they had been in a manner expelled. The
violence of Duke Charles, in the one country, was scarcely more to be feared than the cold
and tyrannical policy of King Louis in the other. After deep thought, Durward could form no
better or safer plan for their security, than that, evading the ambuscade, they should take
the road to Liege by the left hand of the Maes, and throw themselves, as the ladies originally
designed, upon the protection of the excellent Bishop. That Prelate's will to protect them
could not be doubted, and, if reinforced by this Burgundian party of men at arms, he might
be considered as having the power. At any rate, if the dangers to which he was exposed from
the hostility of William de la Marck, and from the troubles in the city of Liege, appeared
imminent, he would still be able to protect the unfortunate ladies until they could be dispatched
to Germany with a suitable escort.

To sum up this reasoning--for when is a mental argument conducted without some reference to
selfish consideration?--Quentin imagined that the death or captivity to which King Louis had,
in cold blood, consigned him, set him at liberty from his engagements to the crown of France:
which, therefore, it was his determined purpose to renounce, The Bishop of Liege was likely,
he concluded, to need soldiers, and he thought that, by the interposition of his fair friends,
who now, especially the elder Countess, treated him with much familiarity, he might get some
command, and perhaps might have the charge of conducting the Ladies of Croye to some place
more safe than the neighbourhood of Liege. And, to conclude, the ladies had talked, although
almost in a sort of jest, of raising the Countess's own vassals, and, as others did in those
stormy times, fortifying her strong castle against all assailants whatever, they had jestingly
asked Quentin whether he would accept the perilous office of their Seneschal, and, on his embracing
the office with ready glee and devotion, they had, in the same spirit, permitted him to kiss
both their hands on that confidential and honourable appointment. Nay, he thought that the
hand of the Countess Isabelle, one of the best formed and most beautiful to which true vassal
ever did such homage, trembled when his lips rested on it a moment longer than ceremony required,
and that some confusion appeared on her cheek and in her eye as she withdrew it. Something
might come of all this, and what brave man, at Quentin Durward's age, but would gladly have
taken the thoughts which it awakened, into the considerations which were to determine his conduct?

This point settled, he had next to consider in what degree he was to use the farther guidance
of the faithless Bohemian. He had renounced his first thought of killing him in the wood, and,
if he took another guide, and dismissed him alive, it would be sending the traitor to the camp
of William de la Marck, with intelligence of their motions. He thought of taking the Prior
into his counsels, and requesting him to detain the Bohemian by force, until they should have
time to reach the Bishop's castle, but, on reflection, he dared not hazard such a proposition
to one who was timid both as an old man and a friar, who held the safety of his convent the
most important object of his duty, and who trembled at the mention of the Wild Boar of Ardennes.

At length Durward settled a plan of operation on which he could the better reckon, as the execution
rested entirely upon himself, and, in the cause in which he was engaged, he felt himself capable
of everything. With a firm and bold heart, though conscious of the dangers of his situation,
Quentin might be compared to one walking under a load, of the weight of which he is conscious,
but which yet is not beyond his strength and power of endurance. Just as his plan was determined,
he reached the convent.

Upon knocking gently at the gate, a brother, considerately stationed for that purpose by the
Prior, opened it, and acquainted him that the brethren were to be engaged in the choir till
daybreak, praying Heaven to forgive to the community the various scandals which had that evening
taken place among them.

The worthy friar offered Quentin permission to attend their devotions, but his clothes were
in such a wet condition that the young Scot was obliged to decline the opportunity, and request
permission, instead, to sit by the kitchen fire, in order to his attire being dried before
morning, as he was particularly desirous that the Bohemian, when they should next meet, should
observe no traces of his having been abroad during the night. The friar not only granted his
request, but afforded him his own company, which fell in very happily with the desire which
Durward had to obtain information concerning the two routes which he had heard mentioned by
the Bohemian in his conversation with the lanzknecht. The friar, entrusted upon many occasions
with the business of the convent abroad, was the person in the fraternity best qualified to
afford him the information he requested, but observed that, as true pilgrims, it became the
duty of the ladies whom Quentin escorted, to take the road on the right side of the Maes, by
the Cross of the Kings, where the blessed relics of Caspar, Melchior, and Balthasar (as the
Catholic Church has named the eastern Magi who came to Bethlehem with their offerings) had
rested as they were transported to Cologne, and on which spot they had wrought many miracles.

Quentin replied that the ladies were determined to observe all the holy stations with the utmost
punctuality, and would certainly visit that of the Cross, either in going to or from Cologne,
but they had heard reports that the road by the right side of the river was at present rendered
unsafe by the soldiers of the ferocious William de la Marck.

"Now may Heaven forbid," said Father Francis, "that the Wild Boar of Ardennes should again
make his lair so near us!--Nevertheless, the broad Maes will be a good barrier betwixt us,
even should it so chance."

"But it will be no barrier between my ladies and the marauder, should we cross the river, and
travel on the right," answered the Scot.

"Heaven will protect its own, young man," said the friar, "for it were hard to think that the
Kings of yonder blessed city of Cologne, who will not endure that a Jew or infidel should even
enter within the walls of their town, could be oblivious enough to permit their worshippers,
coming to their shrine as true pilgrims, to be plundered and misused by such a miscreant dog
as this Boar of Ardennes, who is worse than a whole desert of Saracen heathens, and all the
ten tribes of Israel to boot."

Whatever reliance Quentin, as a sincere Catholic, was bound to rest upon the special protection
of Melchior, Caspar, and Balthasar, he could not but recollect that the pilgrim habits of the
ladies being assumed out of mere earthly policy, he and his charge could scarcely expect their
countenance on the present occasion, and therefore resolved, as far as possible, to avoid placing
the ladies in any predicament where miraculous interposition might be necessary, whilst, in
the simplicity of his good faith, he himself vowed a pilgrimage to the Three Kings of Cologne
in his own proper person, provided the simulate design of those over whose safety he was now
watching, should be permitted by those reasonable and royal, as well as sainted personages,
to attain the desired effect.

That he might enter into this obligation with all solemnity, he requested the friar to show
him into one of the various chapels which opened from the main body of the church of the convent,
where, upon his knees, and with sincere devotion, he ratified the vow which he had made internally.
The distant sound of the choir, the solemnity of the deep and dead hour which he had chosen
for this act of devotion, the effect of the glimmering lamp with which the little Gothic building
was illuminated--all contributed to throw Quentin's mind into the state when it most readily
acknowledges its human frailty, and seeks that supernatural aid and protection which, in every
worship, must be connected with repentance for past sins and resolutions of future amendment.
That the object of his devotion was misplaced, was not the fault of Quentin, and, its purpose
being sincere, we can scarce suppose it unacceptable to the only true Deity, who regards the
motives, and not the forms of prayer, and in whose eyes the sincere devotion of a heathen is
more estimable than the specious hypocrisy of a Pharisee.

Having commended himself and his helpless companions to the Saints, and to the keeping of Providence,
Quentin at length retired to rest, leaving the friar much edified by the depth and sincerity
of his devotion.

     SAMUEL JOHNSON

By peep of day Quentin Durward had forsaken his little cell, had roused the sleepy grooms,
and, with more than his wonted care, seen that everything was prepared for the day's journey.
Girths and bridles, the horse furniture, and the shoes of the horses themselves, were carefully
inspected with his own eyes, that there might be as little chance as possible of the occurrence
of any of those casualties, which, petty as they seem, often interrupt or disconcert travelling.
The horses were also, under his own inspection, carefully fed, so as to render them fit for
a long day's journey, or, if that should be necessary, for a hasty flight.

Quentin then betook himself to his own chamber, armed himself with unusual care, and belted
on his sword with the feeling at once of approaching danger, and of stern determination to
dare it to the uttermost.

These generous feelings gave him a loftiness of step, and a dignity of manner, which the Ladies
of Croye had not yet observed in him, though they had been highly pleased and interested by
the grace, yet naivete, of his general behaviour and conversation, and the mixture of shrewd
intelligence which naturally belonged to him, with the simplicity arising from his secluded
education and distant country. He let them understand that it would be necessary that they
should prepare for their journey this morning rather earlier than usual, and, accordingly,
they left the convent immediately after a morning repast, for which, as well as the other hospitalities
of the House, the ladies made acknowledgment by a donation to the altar, befitting rather their
rank than their appearance. But this excited no suspicion, as they were supposed to be Englishwomen,
and the attribute of superior wealth attached at that time to the insular character as strongly
as in our own day.

The Prior blessed them as they mounted to depart, and congratulated Quentin on the absence
of his heathen guide.

"For," said the venerable man, "better stumble in the path than be upheld by the arm of a thief
or robber."

Quentin was not quite of his opinion, for, dangerous as he knew the Bohemian to be, he thought
he could use his services, and, at the same time, baffle his treasonable purpose, now that
he saw clearly to what it tended. But his anxiety upon this subject was soon at an end, for
the little cavalcade was not an hundred yards from the monastery and the village before Maugrabin
joined it, riding as usual on his little active and wild looking jennet. Their road led them
along the side of the same brook where Quentin had overheard the mysterious conference the
preceding evening, and Hayraddin had not long rejoined them, ere they passed under the very
willow tree which had afforded Durward the means of concealment, when he became an unsuspected
hearer of what then passed betwixt that false guide and the lanzknecht.

The recollections which the spot brought back stirred Quentin to enter abruptly into conversation
with his guide, whom hitherto he had scarce spoken to.

"Where hast thou found night quarter, thou profane knave?" said the Scot.

"Your wisdom may guess, by looking on my gaberdine," answered the Bohemian, pointing to his
dress, which was covered with seeds of hay.

"A good haystack," said Quentin, "is a convenient bed for an astrologer, and a much better
than a heathen scoffer at our blessed religion and its ministers, ever deserves."

"It suited my Klepper better than me, though," said Hayraddin, patting his horse on the neck,
"for he had food and shelter at the same time. The old bald fools turned him loose, as if a
wise man's horse could have infected with wit or sagacity a whole convent of asses. Lucky that
Klepper knows my whistle, and follows me as truly as a hound, or we had never met again, and
you in your turn might have whistled for a guide."

"I have told thee more than once," said Durward, sternly, "to restrain thy ribaldry when thou
chancest to be in worthy men's company, a thing, which, I believe, hath rarely happened to
thee in thy life before now, and I promise thee, that did I hold thee as faithless a guide
as I esteem thee a blasphemous and worthless caitiff, my Scottish dirk and thy heathenish heart
had ere now been acquainted, although the doing such a deed were as ignoble as the sticking
of swine."

"A wild boar is near akin to a sow," said the Bohemian, without flinching from the sharp look
with which Quentin regarded him, or altering, in the slightest degree, the caustic indifference
which he affected in his language, "and many men," he subjoined, "find both pride, pleasure,
and profit, in sticking them."

Astonished at the man's ready confidence, and uncertain whether he did not know more of his
own history and feelings than was pleasant for him to converse upon, Quentin broke off a conversation
in which he had gained no advantage over Maugrabin, and fell back to his accustomed post beside
the ladies.

We have already observed that a considerable degree of familiarity had begun to establish itself
between them. The elder Countess treated him (being once well assured of the nobility of his
birth) like a favoured equal, and though her niece showed her regard to their protector less
freely, yet, under every disadvantage of bashfulness and timidity, Quentin thought he could
plainly perceive that his company and conversation were not by any means indifferent to her.

Nothing gives such life and soul to youthful gaiety as the consciousness that it is successfully
received, and Quentin had accordingly, during the former period of their journey, amused his
fair charge with the liveliness of his conversation and the songs and tales of his country,
the former of which he sang in his native language, while his efforts to render the latter
into his foreign and imperfect French, gave rise to a hundred little mistakes and errors of
speech, as diverting as the narratives themselves. But on this anxious morning, he rode beside
the Ladies of Croye without any of his usual attempts to amuse them, and they could not help
observing his silence as something remarkable.

"Our young companion has seen a wolf," said the Lady Hameline, alluding to an ancient superstition,
"and he has lost his tongue in consequence."

[Vox quoque Moerim Jam fugit ipsa; lupi Moerim videre priores. Virgilii ix. Ecloga. The commentators
add, in explanation of this passage, the opinion of Pliny: "The being beheld by a wolf in Italy
is accounted noxious, and is supposed to take away the speech of a man, if these animals behold
him ere he sees them." S.]

"To say I had tracked a fox were nearer the mark," thought Quentin, but gave the reply no utterance.

"Are you well, Seignior Quentin?" said the Countess Isabelle, in a tone of interest at which
she herself blushed, while she felt that it was something more than the distance between them
warranted.

"He hath sat up carousing with the jolly friars," said the Lady Hameline, "the Scots are like
the Germans, who spend all their mirth over the Rheinwein, and bring only their staggering
steps to the dance in the evening, and their aching heads to the ladies' bower in the morning."

"Nay, gentle ladies," said Quentin, "I deserve not your reproach. The good friars were at their
devotions almost all night, and for myself, my drink was barely a cup of their thinnest and
most ordinary wine."

"It is the badness of his fare that has put him out of humour," said the Countess Isabelle.
"Cheer up, Seignior Quentin, and should we ever visit my ancient Castle of Bracquemont together,
if I myself should stand your cup bearer, and hand it to you, you shall have a generous cup
of wine, that the like never grew upon the vines of Hochheim or Johannisberg."

"A glass of water, noble lady, from your hand,"--Thus far did Quentin begin, but his voice
trembled, and Isabelle continued, as if she had been insensible of the tenderness of the accentuation
upon the personal pronoun.

"The wine was stocked in the deep vaults of Bracquemont, by my great grandfather the Rhinegrave
Godfrey," said the Countess Isabelle.

"Who won the hand of her great grandmother," interjected the Lady Hameline, interrupting her
niece, "by proving himself the best son of chivalry, at the great tournament of Strasbourg--ten
knights were slain in the lists. But those days are now over, and no one now thinks of encountering
peril for the sake of honour, or to relieve distressed beauty."

To this speech, which was made in the tone in which a modern beauty, whose charms are rather
on the wane, may be heard to condemn the rudeness of the present age, Quentin took upon him
to reply that there was no lack of that chivalry which the Lady Hameline seemed to consider
as extinct, and that, were it eclipsed everywhere else, it would still glow in the bosoms of
the Scottish gentlemen.

"Hear him!" said the Lady Hameline, "he would have us believe that in his cold and bleak country
still lives the noble fire which has decayed in France and Germany! The poor youth is like
a Swiss mountaineer, mad with partiality to his native land--he will next tell us of the vines
and olives of Scotland."

"No, madam," said Durward, "of the wine and the oil of our mountains I can say little more
than that our swords can compel these rich productions as tribute from our wealthier neighbours.
But for the unblemished faith and unfaded honour of Scotland, I must now put to the proof how
far you can repose trust in them, however mean the individual who can offer nothing more as
a pledge of your safety."

"You speak mysteriously--you know of some pressing and present danger," said the Lady Hameline.

"I have read it in his eye for this hour past!" exclaimed the Lady Isabelle, clasping her hands.
"Sacred Virgin, what will become of us?"

"Nothing, I hope, but what you would desire," answered Durward. "And now I am compelled to
ask--gentle ladies, can you trust me?"

"Trust you?" answered the Countess Hameline. "Certainly. But why the question? Or how far do
you ask our confidence?"

"I, on my part," said the Countess Isabelle, "trust you implicitly, and without condition.
If you can deceive us, Quentin, I will no more look for truth, save in Heaven!"

"Gentle lady," replied Durward, highly gratified, "you do me but justice. My object is to alter
our route, by proceeding directly by the left bank of the Maes to Liege, instead of crossing
at Namur. This differs from the order assigned by King Louis and the instructions given to
the guide. But I heard news in the monastery of marauders on the right bank of the Maes, and
of the march of Burgundian soldiers to suppress them. Both circumstances alarm me for your
safety. Have I your permission so far to deviate from the route of your journey?"

"My ample and full permission," answered the younger lady.

"Cousin," said the Lady Hameline, "I believe with you that the youth means us well--but bethink
you--we transgress the instructions of King Louis, so positively iterated."

"And why should we regard his instructions?" said the Lady Isabelle. "I am, I thank Heaven
for it, no subject of his, and, as a suppliant, he has abused the confidence he induced me
to repose in him. I would not dishonour this young gentleman by weighing his word for an instant
against the injunctions of yonder crafty and selfish despot."

"Now, may God bless you for that very word, lady," said Quentin, joyously, "and if I deserve
not the trust it expresses, tearing with wild horses in this life and eternal tortures in the
next were e'en too good for my deserts."

So saying, he spurred his horse, and rejoined the Bohemian. This worthy seemed of a remarkably
passive, if not a forgiving temper. Injury or threat never dwelt, or at least seemed not to
dwell in his recollection, and he entered into the conversation which Durward presently commenced,
just as if there had been no unkindly word betwixt them in the course of the morning.

The dog, thought the Scot, snarls not now, because he intends to clear scores with me at once
and for ever, when he can snatch me by the very throat, but we will try for once whether we
cannot foil a traitor at his own weapons.

"Honest Hayraddin," he said, "thou hast travelled with us for ten days, yet hast never shown
us a specimen of your skill in fortune telling, which you are, nevertheless, so fond of practising
that you must needs display your gifts in every convent at which we stop, at the risk of being
repaid by a night's lodging under a haystack."

"You have never asked me for a specimen of my skill," said the gipsy. "You are, like the rest
of the world, contented to ridicule those mysteries which they do not understand."

"Give me then a present proof of your skill," said Quentin and, ungloving his hand, he held
it out to the gipsy.

Hayraddin carefully regarded all the lines which crossed each other on the Scotchman's palm,
and noted, with equally Scrupulous attention, the little risings or swellings at the roots
of the fingers, which were then believed as intimately connected with the disposition, habits,
and fortunes of the individual, as the organs of the brain are pretended to be in our own time.

"Here is a hand," said Hayraddin, "which speaks of toils endured, and dangers encountered.
I read in it an early acquaintance with the hilt of the sword, and yet some acquaintance also
with the clasps of the mass book."

"This of my past life you may have learned elsewhere," said Quentin, "tell me something of
the future."

"This line from the hill of Venus," said the Bohemian, "not broken off abruptly, but attending
and accompanying the line of life, argues a certain and large fortune by marriage, whereby
the party shall be raised among the wealthy and the noble by the influence of successful love."

"Such promises you make to all who ask your advice," said Quentin, "they are part of your art."

"What I tell you is as certain," said Hayraddin, "as that you shall in brief space be menaced
with mighty danger, which I infer from this bright blood red line cutting the table line transversely,
and intimating stroke of sword, or other violence, from which you shall only be saved by the
attachment of a faithful friend."

"Thyself, ha?" said Quentin, somewhat indignant that the chiromantist should thus practise
on his credulity, and endeavour to found a reputation by predicting the consequences of his
own treachery.

"My art," replied the Zingaro, "tells me naught that concerns myself."

"In this, then, the seers of my land," said Quentin, "excel your boasted knowledge, for their
skill teaches them the dangers by which they are themselves beset. I left not my hills without
having felt a portion of the double vision with which their inhabitants are gifted, and I will
give thee a proof of it, in exchange for thy specimen of palmistry. Hayraddin, the danger which
threatens me lies on the right bank of the river--I will avoid it by travelling to Liege on
the left bank."

The guide listened with an apathy, which, knowing the circumstances in which Maugrabin stood,
Quentin could not by any means comprehend.

"If you accomplish your purpose," was the Bohemian's reply, "the dangerous crisis will be transferred
from your lot to mine."

"I thought," said Quentin, "that you said but now, that you could not presage your own fortune?"

"Not in the manner in which I have but now told you yours," answered Hayraddin, "but it requires
little knowledge of Louis of Valois, to presage that he will hang your guide, because your
pleasure was to deviate from the road which he recommended."

"The attaining with safety the purpose of the journey, and ensuring its happy termination,"
said Quentin, "must atone for a deviation from the exact line of the prescribed route."

"Ay," replied the Bohemian, "if you are sure that the King had in his own eye the same termination
of the pilgrimage which he insinuated to you."

"And of what other termination is it possible that he could have been meditating? or why should
you suppose he had any purpose in his thought, other than was avowed in his direction?" inquired
Quentin.

"Simply," replied the Zingaro, "that those who know aught of the Most Christian King, are aware
that the purpose about which he is most anxious, is always that which he is least willing to
declare. Let our gracious Louis send twelve embassies, and I will forfeit my neck to the gallows
a year before it is due, if in eleven of them there is not something at the bottom of the ink
horn more than the pen has written in the letters of credence."

"I regard not your foul suspicions," answered Quentin, "my duty is plain and peremptory--to
convey these ladies in safety to Liege, and I take it on me to think that I best discharge
that duty in changing our prescribed route, and keeping the left side of the river Maes. It
is likewise the direct road to Liege. By crossing the river, we should lose time and incur
fatigue to no purpose--wherefore should we do so?"

"Only because pilgrims, as they call themselves, destined for Cologne," said Hayraddin, "do
not usually descend the Maes so low as Liege, and that the route of the ladies will be accounted
contradictory of their professed destination."

"If we are challenged on that account," said Quentin, "we will say that alarms of the wicked
Duke of Gueldres, or of William de la Marck, or of the Ecorcheurs [flayers; a name given to
bands of wandering troops on account of their cruelty] and lanzknechts, on the right side of
the river, justify our holding by the left, instead of our intended route."

"As you will, my good seignior," replied the Bohemian. "I am, for my part, equally ready to
guide you down the left as down the right side of the Maes. Your excuse to your master you
must make out for yourself."

Quentin, although rather surprised, was at the same time pleased with the ready, or at least
the unrepugnant acquiescence of Hayraddin in their change of route, for he needed his assistance
as a guide, and yet had feared that the disconcerting of his intended act of treachery would
have driven him to extremity. Besides, to expel the Bohemian from their society would have
been the ready mode to bring down William de la Marck, with whom he was in correspondence,
upon their intended route, whereas, if Hayraddin remained with them Quentin thought he could
manage to prevent the Moor from having any communication with strangers unless he was himself
aware of it.

Abandoning, therefore, all thoughts of their original route, the little party followed that
by the left bank of the broad Maes, so speedily and successfully that the next day early brought
them to the proposed end of their journey. They found that the Bishop of Liege, for the sake
of his health, as he himself alleged, but rather, perhaps, to avoid being surprised by the
numerous and mutinous population of the city, had established his residence in his beautiful
Castle of Schonwaldt, about a mile without Liege.

Just as they approached the Castle, they saw the Prelate returning in long procession from
the neighbouring city, in which he had been officiating at the performance of High Mass. He
was at the head of a splendid train of religious, civil and military men, mingled together,
or, as the old ballad maker expresses it,

     "With many a cross bearer before,
     And many a spear behind."

The procession made a noble appearance, as winding along the verdant banks of the broad Maes,
it wheeled into, and was as it were devoured by, the huge Gothic portal of the Episcopal residence.

But when the party came more near, they found that circumstances around the Castle argued a
doubt and sense of insecurity, which contradicted that display of pomp and power which they
had just witnessed. Strong guards of the Bishop's soldiers were heedfully maintained all around
the mansion and its immediate vicinity, and the prevailing appearances in an ecclesiastical
residence seemed to argue a sense of danger in the reverend Prelate, who found it necessary
thus to surround himself with all the defensive precautions of war.

The Ladies of Croye, when announced by Quentin, were reverently ushered into the great Hall,
where they met with the most cordial reception from the Bishop, who met them there at the head
of his little Court. He would not permit them to kiss his hand, but welcomed them with a salute,
which had something in it of gallantry on the part of a prince to fine women, and something
also of the holy affection of a pastor to the sisters of his flock.

Louis of Bourbon, the reigning Bishop of Liege, was in truth a generous and kind hearted prince,
whose life had not indeed been always confined, with precise strictness, within the bounds
of his clerical profession, but who, notwithstanding, had uniformly maintained the frank and
honourable character of the House of Bourbon, from which he was descended.

In latter times, as age advanced, the Prelate had adopted habits more beseeming a member of
the hierarchy than his early reign had exhibited, and was loved among the neighbouring princes,
as a noble ecclesiastic, generous and magnificent in his ordinary mode of life, though preserving
no very ascetic severity of character, and governing with an easy indifference, which, amid
his wealthy and mutinous subjects, rather encouraged than subdued rebellious purposes.

The Bishop was so fast an ally of the Duke of Burgundy that the latter claimed almost a joint
sovereignty in his bishopric, and repaid the good natured ease with which the Prelate admitted
claims which he might easily have disputed, by taking his part on all occasions with the determined
and furious zeal which was a part of his character. He used to say he considered Liege as his
own, the Bishop as his brother (indeed, they might be accounted such, in consequence of the
Duke's having married for his first wife, the Bishop's sister), and that he who annoyed Louis
of Bourbon, had to do with Charles of Burgundy, a threat which, considering the character and
the power of the prince who used it, would have been powerful with any but the rich and discontented
city of Liege, where much wealth had, according to the ancient proverb, made wit waver.

The Prelate, as we have said, assured the Ladies of Croye of such intercession as his interest
at the Court of Burgundy, used to the uttermost, might gain for them, and which, he hoped,
might be the more effectual, as Campobasso, from some late discoveries, stood rather lower
than formerly in the Duke's personal favour. He promised them also such protection as it was
in his power to afford, but the sigh with which he gave the warrant seemed to allow that his
power was more precarious than in words he was willing to admit.

"At every event, my dearest daughters," said the Bishop, with an air in which, as in his previous
salute, a mixture of spiritual unction qualified the hereditary gallantry of the House of Bourbon,
"Heaven forbid I should abandon the lamb to the wicked wolf, or noble ladies to the oppression
of faitours. I am a man of peace, though my abode now rings with arms, but be assured I will
care for your safety as for my own, and should matters become yet more distracted here, which,
with Our Lady's grace, we trust will be rather pacified than inflamed, we will provide for
your safe conduct to Germany, for not even the will of our brother and protector, Charles of
Burgundy, shall prevail with us to dispose of you in any respect contrary to your own inclinations.
We cannot comply with your request of sending you to a convent, for, alas! such is the influence
of the sons of Belial among the inhabitants of Liege, that we know no retreat to which our
authority extends, beyond the bounds of our own castle, and the protection of our soldiery.
But here you are most welcome, and your train shall have all honourable entertainment, especially
this youth whom you recommend so particularly to our countenance, and on whom in especial we
bestow our blessing."

Quentin kneeled, as in duty bound, to receive the Episcopal benediction.

"For yourselves," proceeded the good Prelate, "you shall reside here with my sister Isabelle,
a Canoness of Triers, with whom you may dwell in all honour, even under the roof of so gay
a bachelor as the Bishop of Liege."

He gallantly conducted the ladies to his sister's apartment, as he concluded the harangue of
welcome, and his Master of the Household, an officer who, having taken Deacon's orders, held
something between a secular and ecclesiastical character, entertained Quentin with the hospitality
which his master enjoined, while the other personages of the retinue of the Ladies of Croye
were committed to the inferior departments.

In this arrangement Quentin could not help remarking that the presence of the Bohemian, so
much objected to in the country convents, seemed, in the household of this wealthy, and perhaps
we might say worldly prelate, to attract neither objection nor remark.

CHAPTER XIX: THE CITY

     Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
     To any sudden act of mutiny.

     JULIUS CAESAR

Separated from the Lady Isabelle, whose looks had been for so many days his loadstar, Quentin
felt a strange vacancy and chillness of the heart, which he had not yet experienced in any
of the vicissitudes to which his life had subjected him. No doubt the cessation of the close
and unavoidable intercourse and intimacy betwixt them was the necessary consequence of the
Countess's having obtained a place of settled residence, for under what pretext could she,
had she meditated such an impropriety, have had a gallant young squire such as Quentin in constant
attendance upon her?

But the shock of the separation was not the more welcome that it seemed unavoidable, and the
proud heart of Quentin swelled at finding he was parted with like an ordinary postilion, or
an escort whose duty is discharged, while his eyes sympathised so far as to drop a secret tear
or two over the ruins of all those airy castles, so many of which he had employed himself in
constructing during their too interesting journey. He made a manly, but, at first, a vain effort
to throw off this mental dejection, and so, yielding to the feelings he could not suppress,
he sat him down in one of the deep recesses formed by a window which lighted the great Gothic
hall of Schonwaldt, and there mused upon his hard fortune, which had not assigned him rank
or wealth sufficient to prosecute his daring suit.

Quentin tried to dispel the sadness which overhung him by dispatching Charlet, one of the valets,
with letters to the court of Louis, announcing the arrival of the Ladies of Croye at Liege.
At length his natural buoyancy of temper returned, much excited by the title of an old romaunt
[a poetical romance] which had been just printed at Strasbourg, and which lay beside him in
the window, the title of which set forth--

     How the Squire of lowe degree
     Loved the King's daughter of Hungarie.

[An old English poem reprinted in Hazlitt's Remains of Early Popular Poetry of England.]

While he was tracing the "letters blake" of the ditty so congenial to his own situation, Quentin
was interrupted by a touch on the shoulder, and, looking up, beheld the Bohemian standing by him.

Hayraddin, never a welcome sight, was odious from his late treachery, and Quentin sternly asked
him why he dared take the freedom to touch a Christian and a gentleman?

"Simply," answered the Bohemian, "because I wished to know if the Christian gentleman had lost
his feeling as well as his eyes and ears. I have stood speaking to you these five minutes,
and you have stared on that scrap of yellow paper, as if it were a spell to turn you into a
statue, and had already wrought half its purpose."

"Well, what dost thou want? Speak, and begone!"

"I want what all men want, though few are satisfied with it," said Hayraddin, "I want my due,
ten crowns of gold for guiding the ladies hither."

"With what face darest thou ask any guerdon beyond my sparing thy worthless life?" said Durward,
fiercely, "thou knowest that it was thy purpose to have betrayed them on the road."

"But I did not betray them," said Hayraddin, "if I had, I would have asked no guerdon from
you or from them, but from him whom their keeping on the right hand side of the river might
have benefited. The party that I have served is the party who must pay me."

"Thy guerdon perish with thee, then, traitor," said Quentin, telling out the money. "Get thee
to the Boar of Ardennes, or to the devil! but keep hereafter out of my sight, lest I send thee
thither before thy time."

"The Boar of Ardennes!" repeated the Bohemian, with a stronger emotion of surprise than his
features usually expressed--"it was then no vague guess--no general suspicion--which made you
insist on changing the road?--Can it be--are there really in other lands arts of prophecy more
sure than those of our wandering tribes? The willow tree under which we spoke could tell no
tales. But no--no--no--dolt that I was!--I have it--I have it!--the willow by the brook near
yonder convent--I saw you look towards it as you passed it, about half a mile from yon hive
of drones--that could not indeed speak, but it might hide one who could hear! I will hold my
councils in an open plain henceforth, not a bunch of thistles shall be near me for a Scot to
shroud amongst.--Ha! ha! the Scot hath beat the Zingaro at his own subtle weapons. But know,
Quentin Durward, that you have foiled me to the marring of thine own fortune.--Yes! the fortune
I have told thee of, from the lines on thy hand, had been richly accomplished but for thine
own obstinacy."

"By Saint. Andrew," said Quentin, "thy impudence makes me laugh in spite of myself.--How, or
in what, should thy successful villainy have been of service to me? I heard, indeed, that you
did stipulate to save my life, which condition your worthy allies would speedily have forgotten,
had we once come to blows--but in what thy betrayal of these ladies could have served me, but
by exposing me to death or captivity, is a matter beyond human brains to conjecture."

"No matter thinking of it, then," said Hayraddin, "for I mean still to surprise you with my
gratitude. Had you kept back my hire, I should have held that we were quit, and had left you
to your own foolish guidance. As it is, I remain your debtor for yonder matter on the banks
of the Cher."

"Methinks I have already taken out the payment in cursing and abusing thee," said Quentin.

"Hard words, or kind ones," said the Zingaro, "are but wind, which make no weight in the balance.
Had you struck me, indeed, instead of threatening--"

"I am likely enough to take out payment in that way, if you provoke me longer."

"I would not advise it," said the Zingaro, "such payment, made by a rash hand, might exceed
the debt, and unhappily leave a balance on your side, which I am not one to forget or forgive.
And now farewell, but not for a long space--I go to bid adieu to the Ladies of Croye."

"Thou?" said Quentin, in astonishment--"thou be admitted to the presence of the ladies, and
here, where they are in a manner recluses under the protection of the Bishop's sister, a noble
canoness? It is impossible."

"Marthon, however, waits to conduct me to their presence," said the Zingaro, with a sneer,
"and I must pray your forgiveness if I leave you something abruptly."

He turned as if to depart, but instantly coming back, said, with a tone of deep and serious
emphasis, "I know your hopes--they are daring, yet not vain if I aid them. I know your fears,
they should teach prudence, not timidity. Every woman may be won. A count is but a nickname,
which will befit Quentin as well as the other nickname of duke befits Charles, or that of king
befits Louis."

Ere Durward could reply, the Bohemian had left the hall. Quentin instantly followed, but, better
acquainted than the Scot with the passages of the house, Hayraddin kept the advantage which
he had gotten, and the pursuer lost sight of him as he descended a small back staircase. Still
Durward followed, though without exact consciousness of his own purpose in doing so. The staircase
terminated by a door opening into the alley of a garden, in which he again beheld the Zingaro
hastening down a pleached walk.

On two sides, the garden was surrounded by the buildings of the castle--a huge old pile, partly
castellated, and partly resembling an ecclesiastical building, on the other two sides, the
enclosure was a high embattled wall. Crossing the alleys of the garden to another part of the
building, where a postern door opened behind a large massive buttress, overgrown with ivy,
Hayraddin looked back, and waved his hand in a signal of an exulting farewell to his follower,
who saw that in effect the postern door was opened by Marthon, and that the vile Bohemian was
admitted into the precincts, as he naturally concluded, of the apartment of the Countesses
of Croye. Quentin bit his lips with indignation, and blamed himself severely that he had not
made the ladies sensible of the full infamy of Hayraddin's character, and acquainted with his
machinations against their safety. The arrogating manner in which the Bohemian had promised
to back his suit added to his anger and his disgust, and he felt as if even the hand of the
Countess Isabelle would be profaned, were it possible to attain it by such patronage.

"But it is all a deception," he said, "a turn of his base, juggling artifice. He has procured
access to those ladies upon some false pretence, and with some mischievous intention. It is
well I have learned where they lodge. I will watch Marthon, and solicit an interview with them,
were it but to place them on their guard. It is hard that I must use artifice and brook delay,
when such as he have admittance openly and without scruple. They shall find, however, that
though I am excluded from their presence, Isabelle's safety is the chief subject of my vigilance."

While the young lover was thus meditating, an aged gentleman of the Bishop's household approached
him from the same door by which he had himself entered the garden, and made him aware, though
with the greatest civility of manner, that the garden was private, and reserved only for the
use of the Bishop and guests of the very highest distinction.

Quentin heard him repeat this information twice ere he put the proper construction upon it,
and then starting as from a reverie, he bowed and hurried out of the garden, the official person
following him all the way, and overwhelming him with formal apologies for the necessary discharge
of his duty. Nay, so pertinacious was he in his attempts to remove the offence which he conceived
Durward to have taken, that he offered to bestow his own company upon him, to contribute to
his entertainment until Quentin, internally cursing his formal foppery, found no better way
of escape, then pretending a desire of visiting the neighbouring city, and setting off thither
at such a round pace as speedily subdued all desire in the gentleman usher to accompany him
farther than the drawbridge. In a few minutes, Quentin was within the walls of the city of
Liege, then one of the richest in Flanders, and of course in the world.

Melancholy, even love melancholy, is not so deeply seated, at least in minds of a manly and
elastic character, as the soft enthusiasts who suffer under it are fond of believing. It yields
to unexpected and striking impressions upon the senses, to change of place, to such scenes
as create new trains of association, and to the influence of the busy hum of mankind. In a
few minutes, Quentin's attention was as much engrossed by the variety of objects presented
in rapid succession by the busy streets of Liege, as if there had been neither a Countess Isabelle
nor a Bohemian in the world.

The lofty houses--the stately, though narrow and gloomy streets--the splendid display of the
richest goods and most gorgeous armour in the warehouses and shops around--the walks crowded
by busy citizens of every description, passing and repassing with faces of careful importance
or eager bustle--the huge wains, which transported to and fro the subjects of export and import,
the former consisting of broadcloths and serge, arms of all kinds, nails and iron work, while
the latter comprehended every article of use or luxury, intended either for the consumption
of an opulent city, or received in barter, and destined to be transported elsewhere--all these
objects combined to form an engrossing picture of wealth, bustle, and splendour, to which Quentin
had been hitherto a stranger. He admired also the various streams and canals, drawn from and
communicating with the Maes, which, traversing the city in various directions, offered to every
quarter the commercial facilities of water carriage, and he failed not to hear a mass in the
venerable old Church of Saint Lambert, said to have been founded in the eighth century.

It was upon leaving this place of worship that Quentin began to observe that he, who had been
hitherto gazing on all around him with the eagerness of unrestrained curiosity, was himself
the object of attention to several groups of substantial looking burghers, who seemed assembled
to look upon him as he left the church, and amongst whom arose a buzz and whisper, which spread
from one party to another, while the number of gazers continued to augment rapidly, and the
eyes of each who added to it were eagerly directed to Quentin with a stare which expressed
much interest and curiosity, mingled with a certain degree of respect.

At length he now formed the centre of a considerable crowd, which yet yielded before him while
he continued to move forward, while those who followed or kept pace with him studiously avoided
pressing on him, or impeding his motions. Yet his situation was too embarrassing to be long
endured, without making some attempt to extricate himself and to obtain some explanation.

Quentin looked around him, and fixing upon a jolly, stout made, respectable man, whom, by his
velvet cloak and gold chain, he concluded to be a burgher of eminence, and perhaps a magistrate,
he asked him whether he saw anything particular in his appearance, to attract public attention
in a degree so unusual? or whether it was the ordinary custom of the people of Liege thus to
throng around strangers who chanced to visit their city?

"Surely not, good seignior," answered the burgher, "the Liegeois are neither so idly curious
as to practise such a custom, nor is there anything in your dress or appearance saving that
which is most welcome to this city, and which our townsmen are both delighted to see and desirous
to honour."

"This sounds very polite, worthy sir," said Quentin, "but, by the Cross of Saint Andrew, I
cannot even guess at your meaning."

"Your oath," answered the merchant of Liege, "as well as your accent, convinces me that we
are right in our conjecture."

"By my patron Saint Quentin!" said Durward, "I am farther off from your meaning than ever."

"There again now," rejoined the Liegeois, looking, as he spoke, most provokingly, yet most
civilly, politic and intelligent.

"It is surely not for us to see that which you, worthy seignior, deem it proper to conceal:
But why swear by Saint Quentin, if you would not have me construe your meaning?--We know the
good Count of Saint Paul, who lies there at present, wishes well to our cause."

"On my life," said Quentin, "you are under some delusion.--I know nothing of Saint Paul."

"Nay, we question you not," said the burgher, "although, hark ye--I say, hark in your ear--my
name is Pavillon."

"And what is my business with that, Seignior Pavillon?" said Quentin.

"Nay, nothing--only methinks it might satisfy you that I am trustworthy.--Here is my colleague
Rouslaer, too."

Rouslaer advanced, a corpulent dignitary, whose fair round belly, like a battering ram, "did
shake the press before him," and who, whispering caution to his neighbour, said in a tone of
rebuke, "You forget, good colleague, the place is too open--the seignior will retire to your
house or mine, and drink a glass of Rhenish and sugar, and then we shall hear more of our good
friend and ally, whom we love with all our honest Flemish hearts."

"I have no news for any of you," said Quentin, impatiently, "I will drink no Rhenish, and I
only desire of you, as men of account and respectability, to disperse this idle crowd, and
allow a stranger to leave your town as quietly as he came into it."

"Nay, then, sir," said Rouslaer, "since you stand so much on your incognito, and with us, too,
who are men of confidence, let me ask you roundly, wherefore wear you the badge of your company
if you would remain unknown in Liege."

"What badge, and what order?" said Quentin, "you look like reverend men and grave citizens,
yet, on my soul you are either mad yourselves, or desire to drive me so."

"Sapperment!" said the other burgher, "this youth would make Saint Lambert swear! Why, who
wear bonnets with the Saint Andrew's cross and fleur de lys, save the Scottish Archers of King
Louis's Guards?"

"And supposing I am an Archer of the Scottish Guard, why should you make a wonder of my wearing
the badge of my company?" said Quentin impatiently.

"He has avowed it, he has avowed it!" said Rouslaer and Pavillon, turning to the assembled
burghers in attitudes of congratulation, with waving arms, extended palms, and large round
faces radiating with glee. "He hath avowed himself an Archer of Louis's Guard--of Louis, the
guardian of the liberties of Liege!"

A general shout and cry now arose from the multitude, in which were mingled the various sounds
of "Long live Louis of France! Long live the Scottish Guard! Long live the valiant Archer!
Our liberties, our privileges, or death! No imposts! Long live the valiant Boar of Ardennes!
Down with Charles of Burgundy! and confusion to Bourbon and his bishopric!" Half stunned by
the noise, which began anew in one quarter so soon as it ceased in another, rising and falling
like the billows of the sea, and augmented by thousands of voices which roared in chorus from
distant streets and market places, Quentin had yet time to form a conjecture concerning the
meaning of the tumult, and a plan for regulating his own conduct:

He had forgotten that, after his skirmish with Orleans and Dunois, one of his comrades had,
at Lord Crawford's command, replaced the morion, cloven by the sword of the latter, with one
of the steel lined bonnets which formed a part of the proper and well known equipment of the
Scottish Guards. That an individual of this body, which was always kept very close to Louis's
person, should have appeared in the streets of a city whose civil discontents had been aggravated
by the agents of that King, was naturally enough interpreted by the burghers of Liege into
a determination on the part of Louis openly to assist their cause, and the apparition of an
individual archer was magnified into a pledge of immediate and active support from Louis--nay,
into an assurance that his auxiliary forces were actually entering the town at one or other,
though no one could distinctly tell which, of the city gates.

To remove a conviction so generally adopted, Quentin easily saw was impossible--nay, that any
attempt to undeceive men so obstinately prepossessed in their belief, would be attended with
personal risk, which, in this case, he saw little use of incurring. He therefore hastily resolved
to temporize, and to get free the best way he could, and this resolution he formed while they
were in the act of conducting him to the Stadthouse [town house], where the notables of the
town were fast assembling, in order to hear the tidings which he was presumed to have brought,
and to regale him with a splendid banquet.

In spite of all his opposition, which was set down to modesty, he was on every side surrounded
by the donors of popularity, the unsavoury tide of which now floated around him. His two burgomaster
friends, who were Schoppen, or Syndics of the city, had made fast both his arms. Before him,
Nikkel Blok, the chief of the butchers' incorporation, hastily summoned from his office in
the shambles, brandished his death doing axe, yet smeared with blood and brains, with a courage
and grace which brantwein [spirits] alone could inspire. Behind him came the tall, lean, rawboned,
very drunk, and very patriotic figure of Claus Hammerlein, president of the mystery of the
workers in iron, and followed by at least a thousand unwashed artificers of his class. Weavers,
nailers, ropemakers, artisans of every degree and calling, thronged forward to join the procession
from every gloomy and narrow street. Escape seemed a desperate and impossible adventure.

In this dilemma, Quentin appealed to Rouslaer, who held one arm, and to Pavillon, who had secured
the other, and who were conducting him forward at the head of the ovation, of which he had
so unexpectedly become the principal object. He hastily acquainted them with his having thoughtlessly
adopted the bonnet of the Scottish Guard, on an accident having occurred to the headpiece in
which he had proposed to travel, he regretted that, owing to this circumstance, and the sharp
wit with which the Liegeois drew the natural inference of his quality, and the purpose of his
visit, these things had been publicly discovered, and he intimated that, if just now conducted
to the Stadthouse, he might unhappily feel himself under the necessity of communicating to
the assembled notables certain matters which he was directed by the King to reserve for the
private ears of his excellent gossips, Meinheers Rouslaer and Pavillon of Liege.

This last hint operated like magic on the two citizens, who were the most distinguished leaders
of the insurgent burghers, and were, like all demagogues of their kind, desirous to keep everything
within their own management, so far as possible. They therefore hastily agreed that Quentin
should leave the town for the time, and return by night to Liege, and converse with them privately
in the house of Rouslaer, near the gate opposite to Schonwaldt. Quentin hesitated not to tell
them that he was at present residing in the Bishop's palace, under pretence of bearing despatches
from the French Court, although his real errand was, as they had well conjectured, designed
to the citizens of Liege, and this tortuous mode of conducting a communication as well as the
character and rank of the person to whom it was supposed to be intrusted, was so consonant
to the character of Louis, as neither to excite doubt nor surprise.

Almost immediately after this eclaircissernent [explanation] was completed, the progress of
the multitude brought them opposite to the door of Pavillon's house, in one of the principal
streets, but which communicated from behind with the Maes by means of a garden, as well as
an extensive manufactory of tan pits, and other conveniences for dressing hides, for the patriotic
burgher was a felt dresser or currier.

It was natural that Pavillon should desire to do the honours of his dwelling to the supposed
envoy of Louis, and a halt before his house excited no surprise on the part of the multitude,
who, on the contrary, greeted Meinheer Pavillon with a loud vivat [long live], as he ushered
in his distinguished guest. Quentin speedily laid aside his remarkable bonnet for the cap of
a felt maker, and flung a cloak over his other apparel. Pavillon then furnished him with a
passport to pass the gates of the city, and to return by night or day as should suit his convenience,
and lastly, committed him to the charge of his daughter, a fair and smiling Flemish lass, with
instructions how he was to be disposed of, while he himself hastened back to his colleague
to amuse their friends at the Stadthouse with the best excuses which they could invent for
the disappearance of King Louis's envoy. We cannot, as the footman says in the play, recollect
the exact nature of the lie which the bell wethers told the flock, but no task is so easy as
that of imposing upon a multitude whose eager prejudices have more than half done the business
ere the impostor has spoken a word.

The worthy burgess was no sooner gone than his plump daughter, Trudchen, with many a blush,
and many a wreathed smile, which suited very prettily with lips like cherries, laughing blue
eyes, and a skin transparently pure--escorted the handsome stranger through the pleached alleys
of the Sieur Pavillon's garden, down to the water side, and there saw him fairly embarked in
a boat, which two stout Flemings, in their trunk hose, fur caps, and many buttoned jerkins,
had got in readiness with as much haste as their low country nature would permit.

As the pretty Trudchen spoke nothing but German, Quentin--no disparagement to his loyal affection
to the Countess of Croye--could only express his thanks by a kiss on those same cherry lips,
which was very gallantly bestowed, and accepted with all modest gratitude, for gallants with
a form and face like our Scottish Archer were not of everyday occurrence among the bourgeoisie
of Liege [the French middle class. The term has come to mean the middle class of any country,
especially those engaged in trade].

[The adventure of Quentin at Liege may be thought overstrained, yet it is extraordinary what
slight circumstances will influence the public mind in a moment of doubt and uncertainty. Most
readers must remember that, when the Dutch were on the point of rising against the French yoke,
their zeal for liberation received a strong impulse from the landing of a person in a British
volunteer uniform, whose presence, though that of a private individual, was received as a guarantee
of succours from England. S.]

While the boat was rowed up the sluggish waters of the Maes, and passed the defences of the
town, Quentin had time enough to reflect what account he ought to give of his adventure in
Liege, when he returned to the Bishop's palace of Schonwaldt, and disdaining alike to betray
any person who had reposed confidence in him, although by misapprehension, or to conceal from
the hospitable Prelate the mutinous state of his capital, he resolved to confine himself to
so general an account as might put the Bishop upon his guard, while it should point out no
individual to his vengeance.

He was landed from the boat, within half a mile of the castle, and rewarded his rowers with
a guilder, to their great satisfaction. Yet, short as was the space which divided him from
Schonwaldt, the castle bell had tolled for dinner, and Quentin found, moreover, that he had
approached the castle on a different side from that of the principal entrance, and that to
go round would throw his arrival considerably later. He therefore made straight towards the
side that was nearest to him, as he discerned that it presented an embattled wall, probably
that of the little garden already noticed, with a postern opening upon the moat, and a skiff
moored by the postern, which might serve, he thought, upon summons, to pass him over. As he
approached, in hopes to make his entrance this way, the postern opened, a man came out, and,
jumping into the boat, made his way to the farther side of the moat, and then, with a long
pole, pushed the skiff back towards the place where he had embarked. As he came near, Quentin
discerned that this person was the Bohemian, who, avoiding him, as was not difficult, held
a different path towards Liege, and was presently out of his ken.

Here was a new subject for meditation. Had this vagabond heathen been all this while with the
Ladies of Croye, and for what purpose should they so far have graced him with their presence?
Tormented with this thought, Durward became doubly determined to seek an explanation with them,
for the purpose at once of laying bare the treachery of Hayraddin, and announcing to them the
perilous state in which their protector, the Bishop, was placed, by the mutinous state of his
town of Liege.

As Quentin thus resolved, he entered the castle by the principal gate, and found that part
of the family who assembled for dinner in the great hall, including the Bishop's attendant
clergy, officers of the household, and strangers below the rank of the very first nobility,
were already placed at their meal. A seat at the upper end of the board had, however, been
reserved beside the Bishop's domestic chaplain, who welcomed the stranger with the old college
jest of Sero venientibus ossa [the bones for those who come late], while he took care so to
load his plate with dainties, as to take away all appearance of that tendency to reality, which,
in Quentin's country, is said to render a joke either no joke, or at best an unpalatable one
["A sooth boord (true joke) is no boord," says the Scot. S.].

In vindicating himself from the suspicion of ill breeding, Quentin briefly described the tumult
which had been occasioned in the city by his being discovered to belong to the Scottish Archer
Guard of Louis, and endeavoured to give a ludicrous turn to the narrative by saying that he
had been with difficulty extricated by a fat burgher of Liege and his pretty daughter.

But the company were too much interested in the story to taste the jest. All operations of
the table were suspended while Quentin told his tale, and when he had ceased, there was a solemn
pause, which was only broken by the Majordomo's saying in a low and melancholy tone, "I would
to God that we saw those hundred lances of Burgundy!"

"Why should you think so deeply on it?" said Quentin. "You have many soldiers here, whose trade
is arms, and your antagonists are only the rabble of a disorderly city, who will fly before
the first flutter of a banner with men at arms arrayed beneath it."

"You do not know the men of Liege," said the Chaplain, "of whom it may be said, that, not even
excepting those of Ghent, they are at once the fiercest and the most untameable in Europe.
Twice has the Duke of Burgundy chastised them for their repeated revolts against their Bishop,
and twice hath he suppressed them with much severity, abridged their privileges, taken away
their banners, and established rights and claims to himself which were not before competent
over a free city of the Empire.--Nay, the last time he defeated them with much slaughter near
Saint Tron, where Liege lost nearly six thousand men, what with the sword, what with those
drowned in the flight, and thereafter, to disable them from farther mutiny, Duke Charles refused
to enter at any of the gates which they had surrendered, but, beating to the ground forty cubits'
breadth of their city wall, marched into Liege as a conqueror with visor closed, and lance
in rest, at the head of his chivalry, by the breach which he had made. Nay, well were the Liegeois
then assured, that, but for the intercession of his father, Duke Philip the Good, this Charles,
then called Count of Charalois, would have given their town up to spoil. And yet, with all
these fresh recollections, with their breaches unrepaired, and their arsenals scarcely supplied,
the sight of an archer's bonnet is sufficient again to stir them to uproar. May God amend all!
but I fear there will be bloody work between so fierce a population and so fiery a Sovereign,
and I would my excellent and kind master had a see of lesser dignity and more safety, for his
mitre is lined with thorns instead of ermine. This much I say to you, Seignior Stranger, to
make you aware that, if your affairs detain you not at Schonwaldt, it is a place from which
each man of sense should depart as speedily as possible. I apprehend that your ladies are of
the same opinion, for one of the grooms who attended them on the route has been sent back by
them to the Court of France with letters, which doubtless are intended to announce their going
in search of a safer asylum."

CHAPTER XX: THE BILLET

     Go to--thou art made, if thou desirest to be so.--
     If not, let me see thee still the fellow of servants,
     and not fit to touch Fortune's fingers.--

     TWELFTH NIGHT

When the tables were drawn, the Chaplain, who seemed to have taken a sort of attachment to
Quentin Durward's society, or who perhaps desired to extract from him farther information concerning
the meeting of the morning, led him into a withdrawing apartment, the windows of which, on
one side, projected into the garden, and as he saw his companion's eye gaze rather eagerly
upon the spot, he proposed to Quentin to go down and take a view of the curious foreign shrubs
with which the Bishop had enriched its parterres.

Quentin excused himself as unwilling to intrude, and therewithal communicated the check which
he had received in the morning. The Chaplain smiled, and said that there was indeed some ancient
prohibition respecting the Bishop's private garden.

"But this," he added, with a smile, "was when our reverend father was a princely young prelate
of not more than thirty years of age, and when many fair ladies frequented the Castle for ghostly
consolation. Need there was," he said with a downcast look, and a smile, half simple and half
intelligent, "that these ladies, pained in conscience, who were ever lodged in the apartments
now occupied by the noble Canoness, should have some space for taking the air, secure from
the intrusion of the profane. But of late years," he added, "this prohibition, although not
formally removed, has fallen entirely out of observance, and remains but as the superstition
which lingers in the brain of a superannuated gentleman usher. If you please," he added, "we
will presently descend, and try whether the place be haunted or no."

Nothing could have been more agreeable to Quentin than the prospect of a free entrance into
the garden, through means of which, according to a chance which had hitherto attended his passion,
he hoped to communicate with, or at least obtain sight of, the object of his affections, from
some such turret or balcony window, or similar "coign of vantage," as at the hostelry of the
Fleur de Lys, near Plessis, or the Dauphin's Tower, within that Castle itself. Isabelle seemed
still destined, wherever she made her abode, to be the Lady of the Turret.

[Coign of vantage: an advantageous position for observation or action. Cf.

While thus employed, the young lover heard with total neglect, if indeed he heard at all, the
enumeration of plants, herbs, and shrubs which his reverend conductor pointed out to him, of
which this was choice, because of prime use in medicine, and that more choice for yielding
a rare flavour to pottage, and a third, choicest of all, because possessed of no merit but
its extreme scarcity. Still it was necessary to preserve some semblance at least of attention,
which the youth found so difficult, that he fairly wished at the devil the officious naturalist
and the whole vegetable kingdom. He was relieved at length by the striking of a clock, which
summoned the Chaplain to some official duty.

The reverend man made many unnecessary apologies for leaving his new friend, and concluded
by giving him the agreeable assurance that he might walk in the garden till supper, without
much risk of being disturbed.

"It is," said he, "the place where I always study my own homilies, as being most sequestered
from the resort of strangers. I am now about to deliver one of them in the chapel, if you please
to favour me with your audience. I have been thought to have some gift.--But the glory be where
it is due!"

Quentin excused himself for this evening, under pretence of a severe headache, which the open
air was likely to prove the best cure for, and at length the well meaning, priest left him
to himself.

It may be well imagined, that in the curious inspection which he now made, at more leisure,
of every window or aperture which looked into the garden, those did not escape which were in
the immediate neighbourhood of the small door by which he had seen Marthon admit Hayraddin,
as he pretended, to the apartment of the Countesses. But nothing stirred or showed itself,
which could either confute or confirm the tale which the Bohemian had told, until it was becoming
dusky, and Quentin began to be sensible, he scarce knew why, that his sauntering so long in
the garden might be subject of displeasure or suspicion. Just as he had resolved to depart,
and was taking what he had destined for his last turn under the windows which had such attraction
for him, he heard above him a slight and cautious sound, like that of a cough, as intended
to call his attention, and to avoid the observation of others. As he looked up in joyful surprise,
a casement opened, a female hand was seen to drop a billet, which fell into a rosemary bush
that grew at the foot of the wall. The precaution used in dropping this letter prescribed equal
prudence and secrecy in reading it. The garden, surrounded, as we have said, upon two sides,
by the buildings of the palace, was commanded, of course, by the windows of many apartments,
but there was a sort of grotto of rock work, which the Chaplain had shown Durward with much
complacency. To snatch up the billet, thrust it into his bosom, and hie to this place of secrecy,
was the work of a single minute. He there opened the precious scroll, and blessed, at the same
time, the memory of the Monks of Aberbrothick, whose nurture had rendered him capable of deciphering
its contents.

The first line contained the injunction, "Read this in secret,"--and the contents were as follows:
"What your eyes have too boldly said, mine have perhaps too rashly understood. But unjust persecution
makes its victims bold, and it were better to throw myself on the gratitude of one, than to
remain the object of pursuit to many. Fortune has her throne upon a rock but brave men fear
not to climb. If you dare do aught for one that hazards much, you need but pass into this garden
at prime tomorrow, wearing in your cap a blue and white feather, but expect no farther communication.
Your stars have, they say, destined you for greatness, and disposed you to gratitude.--Farewell--be
faithful, prompt, and resolute, and doubt not thy fortune."

Within this letter was enclosed a ring with a table diamond, on which were cut, in form of
a lozenge, the ancient arms of the House of Croye.

The first feeling of Quentin upon this occasion was unmingled ecstasy--a pride and joy which
seemed to raise him to the stars--a determination to do or die, influenced by which he treated
with scorn the thousand obstacles that placed themselves betwixt him and the goal of his wishes.

In this mood of rapture, and unable to endure any interruption which might withdraw his mind,
were it but for a moment, from so ecstatic a subject of contemplation, Durward, retiring to
the interior of the castle, hastily assigned his former pretext of a headache for not joining
the household of the Bishop at the supper meal, and, lighting his lamp, betook himself to the
chamber which had been assigned him, to read, and to read again and again, the precious billet,
and to kiss a thousand times the no less precious ring.

But such high wrought feelings could not remain long in the same ecstatic tone. A thought pressed
upon him, though he repelled it as ungrateful--as even blasphemous--that the frankness of the
confession implied less delicacy on the part of her who made it, than was consistent with the
high romantic feeling of adoration with which he had hitherto worshipped the Lady Isabelle.
No sooner did this ungracious thought intrude itself, than he hastened to stifle it, as he
would have stifled a hissing and hateful adder that had intruded itself into his couch. Was
it for him--him the Favoured--on whose account she had stooped from her sphere, to ascribe
blame to her for the very act of condescension, Without which he dared not have raised his
eyes towards her? Did not her very dignity of birth and of condition reverse, in her case,
the usual rules which impose silence on the lady until her lover shall have first spoken? To
these arguments, which he boldly formed into syllogisms and avowed to himself, his vanity might
possibly suggest one which he cared not to embody even mentally with the same frankness--that
the merit of the party beloved might perhaps warrant, on the part of the lady, some little
departure from common rules, and, after all, as in the case of Malvolio [Olivia's steward in
Twelfth Night], there was example for it in chronicle. The Squire of low degree, of whom he
had just been reading, was, like himself, a gentleman void of land and living, and yet the
generous Princess of Hungary bestowed on him, without scruple, more substantial marks of her
affection than the billet he had just received:

     "'Welcome,' she said, 'my swete Squyre,
     My heart's roots, my soul's desire,
     I will give thee kisses three,
     And als five hundrid poundis in fee.'"

And again the same faithful history made the King of Hongrie himself avouch--

     "I have yknown many a page,
     Come to be Prince by marriage."

So that, upon the whole, Quentin generously and magnanimously reconciled himself to a line
of conduct on the Countess's part by which he was likely to be so highly benefited.

But this scruple was succeeded by another doubt, harder of digestion. The traitor Hayraddin
had been in the apartments of the ladies, for aught Quentin knew, for the space of four hours,
and, considering the hints which he had thrown out of possessing an influence of the most interesting
kind over the fortunes of Quentin Durward, what should assure him that this train was not of
his laying? And if so, was it not probable that such a dissembling villain had set it on foot
to conceal some new plan of treachery--perhaps to seduce Isabelle out of the protection of
the worthy Bishop? This was a matter to be closely looked into, for Quentin felt a repugnance
to this individual proportioned to the unabashed impudence with which he had avowed his profligacy,
and could not bring himself to hope that anything in which he was concerned could ever come
to an honourable or happy conclusion.

These various thoughts rolled over Quentin's mind like misty clouds, to dash and obscure the
fair landscape which his fancy had at first drawn, and his couch was that night a sleepless
one. At the hour of prime--ay, and an hour before it, was he in the castle garden, where no
one now opposed either his entrance or his abode, with a feather of the assigned colour, as
distinguished as he could by any means procure in such haste. No notice was taken of his appearance
for nearly two hours, at length he heard a few notes of the lute, and presently the lattice
opened right above the little postern door at which Marthon had admitted Hayraddin, and Isabelle,
in maidenly beauty, appeared at the opening, greeted him half kindly, half shyly, coloured
extremely at the deep and significant reverence with which he returned her courtesy--shut the
casement, and disappeared.

Daylight and champaign could discover no more! The authenticity of the billet was ascertained--it
only remained what was to follow, and of this the fair writer had given him no hint. But no
immediate danger impended--the Countess was in a strong castle, under the protection of a Prince,
at once respectable for his secular and venerable for his ecclesiastical authority. There was
neither immediate room nor occasion for the exulting Squire interfering in the adventure, and
it was sufficient if he kept himself prompt to execute her commands whensoever they should
be communicated to him. But Fate purposed to call him into action sooner than he was aware of.

It was the fourth night after his arrival at Schonwaldt, when Quentin had taken measures for
sending back on the morrow, to the Court of Louis, the remaining groom who had accompanied
him on his journey, with letters from himself to his uncle and Lord Crawford, renouncing the
service of France, for which the treachery to which he had been exposed by the private instructions
of Hayraddin gave him an excuse, both in honour and prudence, and he betook himself to his
bed with all the rosy coloured ideas around him which flutter about the couch of a youth when
he loves dearly, and thinks his love is as sincerely repaid.

But Quentin's dreams, which at first partook of the nature of those happy influences under
which he had fallen asleep, began by degrees to assume a more terrific character.

He walked with the Countess Isabelle beside a smooth and inland lake, such as formed the principal
characteristic of his native glen, and he spoke to her of his love, without any consciousness
of the impediments which lay between them. She blushed and smiled when she listened--even as
he might have expected from the tenor of the letter, which, sleeping or waking, lay nearest
to his heart. But the scene suddenly changed from summer to winter--from calm to tempest, the
winds and the waves rose with such a contest of surge and whirlwind as if the demons of the
water and of the air had been contending for their roaring empires in rival strife. The rising
waters seemed to cut off their advance and their retreat--the increasing tempest, which dashed
them against each other, seemed to render their remaining on the spot impossible, and the tumultuous
sensations produced by the apparent danger awoke the dreamer.

He awoke, but although the circumstances of the vision had disappeared, and given place to
reality, the noise, which had probably suggested them, still continued to sound in his ears.

Quentin's first impulse was to sit erect in bed and listen with astonishment to sounds, which,
if they had announced a tempest, might have shamed the wildest that ever burst down from the
Grampians, and again in a minute he became sensible that the tumult was not excited by the
fury of the elements, but by the wrath of men. He sprang from bed, and looked from the window
of his apartment, but it opened into the garden, and on that side all was quiet, though the
opening of the casement made him still more sensible from the shouts which reached his ears
that the outside of the castle was beleaguered and assaulted, and that by a numerous and determined
enemy. Hastily collecting his dress and arms, and putting them on with such celerity as darkness
and surprise permitted, his attention was solicited by a knocking at the door of his chamber.
As Quentin did not immediately answer, the door, which was a slight one, was forced open from
without, and the intruder, announced by his peculiar dialect to be the Bohemian, Hayraddin
Maugrabin, entered the apartment. A phial which he held in his hand, touched by a match, produced
a dark flash of ruddy fire, by means of which he kindled a lamp, which he took from his bosom.

"The horoscope of your destinies," he said energetically to Durward, without any farther greeting,
"now turns upon the determination of a minute."

"Caitiff!" said Quentin, in reply, "there is treachery around us, and where there is treachery
thou must have a share in it."

"You are mad," answered Maugrabin. "I never betrayed any one but to gain by it--and wherefore
should I betray you, by whose safety I can take more advantage than by your destruction? Hearken
for a moment, if it be possible for you, to one note of reason, ere it is sounded into your
ear by the death shut of ruin. The Liegeois are up--William de la Marck with his band leads
them.--Were there means of resistance, their numbers and his fury would overcome them, but
there are next to none. If you would save the Countess and your own hopes, follow me, in the
name of her who sent you a table diamond, with three leopards engraved on it."

"Lead the way," said Quentin, hastily. "In that name I dare every danger."

"As I shall manage it," said the Bohemian, "there is no danger, if you can but withhold your
hand from strife which does not concern you, for, after all, what is it to you whether the
Bishop, as they call him, slaughters his flock, or the flock slaughters the shepherd?--Ha!
ha! ha! Follow me, but with caution and patience, subdue your own courage, and confide in my
prudence and my debt of thankfulness is paid, and you have a Countess for your spouse.--Follow me."

"I follow," said Quentin, drawing his sword, "but the moment in which I detect the least sign
of treachery, thy head and body are three yards separate!"

Without more conversation the Bohemian, seeing that Quentin was now fully armed and ready,
ran down the stairs before him, and winded hastily through various side passages, until they
gained the little garden. Scarce a light was to be seen on that side, scarce any bustle was
to be heard, but no sooner had Quentin entered the open space, than the noise on the opposite
side of the castle became ten times more stunningly audible, and he could hear the various
war cries of "Liege! Liege! Sanglier! Sanglier! [the Wild Boar: a name given to William de
la Marck]" shouted by the assailants, while the feebler cry of "Our Lady for the Prince Bishop!"
was raised in a faint and faltering tone by those of the prelate's soldiers who had hastened,
though surprised and at disadvantage, to the defence of the walls.

But the interest of the fight, notwithstanding the martial character of Quentin Durward, was
indifferent to him, in comparison with the fate of Isabelle of Croye, which, he had reason
to fear, would be a dreadful one, unless rescued from the power of the dissolute and cruel
freebooter who was now, as it seemed, bursting the gates of the castle. He reconciled himself
to the aid of the Bohemian, as men in a desperate illness refuse not the remedy prescribed
by quacks and mountebanks, and followed across the garden, with the intention of being guided
by him until he should discover symptoms of treachery, and then piercing him through the heart,
or striking his head from his body.

Hayraddin seemed himself conscious that his safety turned on a feather weight, for he forbore,
from the moment they entered the open air, all his wonted gibes and quirks, and seemed to have
made a vow to act at once with modesty, courage, and activity.

At the opposite door, which led to the ladies' apartments, upon a low signal made by Hayraddin,
appeared two women, muffled in the black silk veils which were then, as now, worn by the women
in the Netherlands. Quentin offered his arm to one of them, who clung to it with trembling
eagerness, and indeed hung upon him so much, that had her weight been greater, she must have
much impeded their retreat. The Bohemian, who conducted the other female, took the road straight
for the postern which opened upon the moat, through the garden wall, close to which the little
skiff Was drawn up, by means of which Quentin had formerly observed Hayraddin himself retreating
from the castle.

As they crossed, the shouts of storm and successful violence seemed to announce that the castle
was in the act of being taken, and so dismal was the sound in Quentin's ears, that he could
not help swearing aloud, "But that my blood is irretrievably devoted to the fulfilment of my
present duty, I would back to the wall, take faithful part with the hospitable Bishop, and
silence some of those knaves whose throats are full of mutiny and robbery!"

The lady, whose arm was still folded in his, pressed it lightly as he spoke, as if to make
him understand that there was a nearer claim on his chivalry than the defence of Schonwaldt,
while the Bohemian exclaimed, loud enough to be heard, "Now, that I call right Christian frenzy,
which would turn back to fight when love and fortune both demand that we should fly.

"On, on--with all the haste you can make.--Horses wait us in yonder thicket of willows."

"There are but two horses," said Quentin, who saw them in the moonlight.

"All that I could procure without exciting suspicion--and enough," replied the Bohemian. "You
two must ride for Tongres ere the way becomes unsafe--Marthon will abide with the women of
our horde, with whom she is an old acquaintance. Know she is a daughter of our tribe, and only
dwelt among you to serve our purpose as occasion should fall."

"Marthon!" exclaimed the Countess, looking at the veiled female with a shriek of surprise,
"is not this my kinswoman?"

"Only Marthon," said Hayraddin. "Excuse me that little piece of deceit. I dared not carry off
both the Ladies of Croye from the Wild Boar of Ardennes."

"Wretch!" said Quentin, emphatically--"but it is not--shall not be too late--I will back to
rescue the Lady Hameline."

"Hameline," whispered the lady, in a disturbed voice, "hangs on thy arm, to thank thee for
her rescue."

"Ha! what!--How is this?" said Quentin, extricating himself from her hold, and with less gentleness
than he would at any other time have used towards a female of any rank. "Is the Lady Isabelle
then left behind!--Farewell--farewell."

As he turned to hasten back to the castle, Hayraddin laid hold of him.--"Nay, hear you--hear
you--you run upon your death! What the foul fiend did you wear the colours of the old one for?--I
will never trust blue and white silk again. But she has almost as large a dower--has jewels
and gold--hath pretensions, too, upon the earldom."

While he spoke thus, panting on in broken sentences, the Bohemian struggled to detain Quentin,
who at length laid his hand on his dagger, in order to extricate himself.

"Nay, if that be the case," said Hayraddin, unloosing his hold, "go--and the devil, if there
be one, go along with you!"

And, soon as freed from his hold, the Scot shot back to the castle with the speed of the wind.

Hayraddin then turned round to the Countess Hameline, who had sunk down on the ground, between
shame, fear, and disappointment.

"Here has been a mistake," he said, "up, lady, and come with me--I will provide you, ere morning
comes, a gallanter husband than this smock faced boy, and if one will not serve, you shall
have twenty."

The Lady Hameline was as violent in her passions, as she was vain and weak in her understanding.
Like many other persons, she went tolerably well through the ordinary duties of life, but in
a crisis like the present, she was entirely incapable of doing aught, save pouring forth unavailing
lamentations, and accusing Hayraddin of being a thief, a base slave, an impostor, a murderer.

"Call me Zingaro," returned he, composedly, "and you have said all at once."

"Monster! you said the stars had decreed our union, and caused me to write--Oh, wretch that
I was!" exclaimed the unhappy lady.

"And so they had decreed your union," said Hayraddin, "had both parties been willing--but think
you the blessed constellations can make any one wed against his will?--I was led into error
with your accursed Christian gallantries, and fopperies of ribbons and favours--and the youth
prefers veal to beef, I think--that 's all.--Up and follow me, and take notice, I endure neither
weeping nor swooning."

"I will not stir a foot," said the Countess, obstinately.

"By the bright welkin, but you shall, though!" exclaimed Hayraddin. "I swear to you, by all
that ever fools believed in, that you have to do with one, who would care little to strip you
naked, bind you to a tree, and leave you to your fortune!"

"Nay," said Marthon, interfering, "by your favour she shall not be misused. I wear a knife
as well as you, and can use it.--She is a kind woman, though a fool.--And you, madam, rise
up and follow us.--Here has been a mistake, but it is something to have saved life and limb.
There are many in yonder castle would give all the wealth in the world to stand where we do."

As Marthon spoke, a clamour, in which the shouts of victory were mingled with screams of terror
and despair, was wafted to them from the Castle of Schonwaldt.

"Hear that, lady!" said Hayraddin, "and be thankful you are not adding your treble pipe to
yonder concert. Believe me, I will care for you honestly, and the stars shall keep their words,
and find you a good husband."

Like some wild animal, exhausted and subdued by terror amid fatigue, the Countess Hameline
yielded herself up to the conduct of her guides, and suffered herself to be passively led whichever
way they would. Nay, such was the confusion of her spirits and the exhaustion of her strength,
that the worthy couple, who half bore, half led her, carried on their discourse in her presence
without her even understanding it.

"I ever thought your plan was folly," said Marthon. "Could you have brought the young people
together, indeed, we might have had a hold on their gratitude, and a footing in their castle.
But what chance of so handsome a youth wedding this old fool?"

"Rizpah," said Hayraddin, "you have borne the name of a Christian, and dwelt in the tents of
those besotted people, till thou hast become a partaker in their follies. How could I dream
that he would have made scruples about a few years' youth or age, when the advantages of the
match were so evident? And thou knowest, there would have been no moving yonder coy wench to
be so frank as this coming Countess here, who hangs on our arms as dead a weight as a wool
pack. I loved the lad too, and would have done him a kindness: to wed him to this old woman
was to make his fortune, to unite him to Isabelle were to have brought on him De la Marck,
Burgundy, France--every one that challenges an interest in disposing of her hand. And this
silly woman's wealth being chiefly in gold and jewels, we should have had our share. But the
bow string has burst, and the arrow failed. Away with her--we will bring her to William with
the Beard. By the time he has gorged himself with wassail, as is his wont, he will not know
an old Countess from a young one. Away, Rizpah--bear a gallant heart. The bright Aldebaran
still influences the destinies of the Children of the Desert!"

CHAPTER XXI: THE SACK

     The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
     And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
     In liberty of bloody hand shall range,
     With conscience wide as hell.

     HENRY V

The surprised and affrighted garrison of the Castle of Schonwaldt had, nevertheless, for some
time made good the defence of the place against the assailants, but the immense crowds which,
issuing from the city of Liege, thronged to the assault like bees, distracted their attention,
and abated their courage.

There was also disaffection at least, if not treachery, among the defenders, for some called
out to surrender, and others, deserting their posts, tried to escape from the castle. Many
threw themselves from the walls into the moat, and such as escaped drowning, flung aside their
distinguishing badges, and saved themselves by mingling among the motley crowd of assailants.
Some few, indeed, from attachment to the Bishop's person, drew around him, and continued to
defend the great keep, to which he had fled, and others, doubtful of receiving quarter, or
from an impulse of desperate courage, held out other detached bulwarks and towers of the extensive
building. But the assailants had got possession of the courts and lower parts of the edifice,
and were busy pursuing the vanquished, and searching for spoil, while one individual, as if
he sought for that death from which all others were flying, endeavoured to force his way into
the scene of tumult and horror, under apprehensions still more horrible to his imagination
than the realities around were to his sight and senses. Whoever had seen Quentin Durward that
fatal night, not knowing the meaning of his conduct, had accounted him a raging madman, whoever
had appreciated his motives, had ranked him nothing beneath a hero of romance.

Approaching Schonwaldt on the same side from which he had left it, the youth met several fugitives
making for the wood, who naturally avoided him as an enemy, because he came in an opposite
direction from that which they had adopted. When he came nearer, he could hear, and partly
see, men dropping from the garden wall into the castle fosse, and others who seemed precipitated
from the battlements by the assailants. His courage was not staggered, even for an instant.
There was not time to look for the boat, even had it been practicable to use it, and it was
in vain to approach the postern of the garden, which was crowded with fugitives, who ever and
anon, as they were thrust through it by the pressure behind, fell into the moat which they
had no means of crossing.

Avoiding that point, Quentin threw himself into the moat, near what was called the little gate
of the castle, and where there was a drawbridge, which was still elevated. He avoided with
difficulty the fatal grasp of more than one sinking wretch, and, swimming to the drawbridge,
caught hold of one of the chains which was hanging down, and, by a great exertion of strength
and activity, swayed himself out of the water, and attained the platform from which the bridge
was suspended. As with hands and knees he struggled to make good his footing, a lanzknecht,
with his bloody sword in his hand, made towards him, and raised his weapon for a blow which
must have been fatal.

"How now, fellow," said Quentin, in a tone of authority. "Is that the way in which you assist
a comrade?--Give me your hand."

The soldier in silence, and not without hesitation, reached him his arm, and helped him upon
the platform, when, without allowing him time for reflection, the Scot continued in the same
tone of command, "To the western tower, if you would be rich--the Priest's treasury is in the
western tower."

The words were echoed on every hand: "To the western tower--the treasure is in the western
tower!" And the stragglers who were within, hearing of the cry, took, like a herd of raging
wolves, the direction opposite to that which Quentin, come life, come death, was determined
to pursue.

Bearing himself as if he were one, not of the conquered, but of the victors, he made a way
into the garden, and pushed across it with less interruption than he could have expected, for
the cry of "To the western tower!" had carried off one body of the assailants, and another
was summoned together, by war cry and trumpet sound, to assist in repelling a desperate sally,
attempted by the defenders of the keep, who had hoped to cut their way out of the castle, bearing
the Bishop along with them. Quentin, therefore, crossed the garden with an eager step and throbbing
heart, commending himself to those heavenly powers which had protected him through the numberless
perils of his life, and bold in his determination to succeed, or leave his life in this desperate
undertaking. Ere he reached the garden, three men rushed on him with levelled lances, crying,
"Liege, Liege!"

Putting himself in defence, but without striking, he replied, "France, France, friend to Liege."

"Vivat France!" cried the burghers of Liege, and passed on. The same signal proved a talisman
to avert the weapons of four or five of La Marck's followers, whom he found straggling in the
garden, and who set upon him crying, "Sanglier!"

In a word, Quentin began to hope that his character as an emissary of King Louis, the private
instigator of the insurgents of Liege, and the secret supporter of William de la Marck, might
possibly bear him through the horrors of the night.

On reaching the turret, he shuddered when he found that the little side door, through which
Marthon and the Countess Hameline had shortly before joined him, was now blockaded with more
than one dead body.

Two of them he dragged hastily aside, and was stepping over the third body, in order to enter
the portal, when the supposed dead man laid hand on his cloak, and entreated him to stay and
assist him to rise. Quentin was about to use rougher methods than struggling to rid himself
of this untimely obstruction, when the fallen man continued to exclaim, "I am stifled here,
in mine own armour!--I am the Syndic Pavillon of Liege! If you are for us, I will enrich you--if
you are for the other side, I will protect you, but do not--do not leave me to die the death
of a smothered pig!"

In the midst of this scene of blood and confusion, the presence of mind of Quentin suggested
to him that this dignitary might have the means of protecting their retreat. He raised him
on his feet, and asked him if he was wounded.

"Not wounded, at least I think not," answered the burgher, "but much out of wind."

"Sit down, then, on this stone, and recover your breath," said Quentin, "I will return instantly."

"For whom are you?" said the burgher, still detaining him.

"For France--for France," answered Quentin, studying to get away.

"What! my lively young Archer?" said the worthy Syndic. "Nay, if it has been my fate to find
a friend in this fearful night, I will not quit him, I promise you. Go where you will, I follow,
and could I get some of the tight lads of our guildry together, I might be able to help you
in turn, but they are all squandered abroad like so many pease.--Oh, it is a fearful night!"

During this time, he was dragging himself on after Quentin, who, aware of the importance of
securing the countenance of a person of such influence, slackened his pace to assist him, although
cursing in his heart the encumbrance that retarded his pace.

At the top of the stair was an anteroom, with boxes and trunks, which bore marks of having
been rifled, as some of the contents lay on the floor. A lamp, dying in the chimney, shed a
feeble beam on a dead or senseless man who lay across the hearth.

Bounding from Pavillon like a greyhound from his keeper's leash, and with an effort which almost
overthrew him, Quentin sprang through a second and a third room, the last of which seemed to
be the bedroom of the Ladies of Croye. No living mortal was to be seen in either of them. He
called upon the Lady Isabelle's name, at first gently, then more loudly, and then with an accent
of despairing emphasis, but no answer was returned. He wrung his hands, tore his hair, and
stamped on the earth with desperation. At length a feeble glimmer of light, which shone through
a crevice in the wainscoting of a dark nook in the bedroom, announced some recess or concealment
behind the arras. Quentin hasted to examine it. He found there was indeed a concealed room,
but it resisted his hurried efforts to open it. Heedless of the personal injury he might sustain,
he rushed at the door with the whole force and weight of his body, and such was the impetus
of an effort made betwixt hope and despair, that it would have burst much stronger fastenings.

He thus forced his way, almost headlong, into a small oratory, where a female figure, which
had been kneeling in agonizing supplication before the holy image, now sank at length on the
floor, under the new terrors implied in this approaching tumult. He hastily raised her from
the ground, and, joy of joys it was she whom he sought to save--the Countess Isabelle. He pressed
her to his bosom--he conjured her to awake--entreated her to be of good cheer--for that she
was now under time protection of one who had heart and hand enough to defend her against armies.

"Durward!" she said, as she at length collected herself, "is it indeed you?--then there is
some hope left. I thought all living and mortal friends had left me to my fate.--Do not again
abandon me."

"Never--never!" said Durward. "Whatever shall happen, whatever danger shall approach, may I
forfeit the benefits purchased by yonder blessed sign, if I be not the sharer of your fate
until it is again a happy one!"

"Very pathetic and touching, truly," said a rough, broken, asthmatic voice behind. "A love
affair, I see, and, from my soul, I pity the tender creature as if she were my own Trudchen."

"You must do more than pity," said Quentin, turning towards the speaker, "you must assist in
protecting us, Meinheer Pavillon. Be assured this lady was put under my especial charge by
your ally the King of France, and, if you aid me not to shelter her from every species of offence
and violence, your city will lose the favour of Louis of Valois. Above all, she must be guarded
from the hands of William de la Marck."

"That will be difficult," said Pavillon, "for these schelms of lanzknechts are very devils
at rummaging out the wenches. But I'll do my best.--We will to the other apartment, and there
I will consider.--It is but a narrow stair, and you can keep the door with a pike, while I
look from the window, and get together some of my brisk boys of the curriers' guildry of Liege,
that are as true as the knives they wear in their girdles.--But first undo me these clasps--for
I have not worn this corselet since the battle of Saint Tron [fought by the insurgents of Liege
against the Duke of Burgundy, Charles the Bold, when Count of Charalois, in which the people
of Liege were defeated with great slaughter. S.] and I am three stone heavier since that time,
if there be truth in Dutch beam and scale."

The undoing of the iron enclosure gave great relief to the honest man, who, in putting it on,
had more considered his zeal to the cause of Liege, than his capacity of bearing arms. It afterwards
turned out that being, as it were, borne forward involuntarily, and hoisted over the walls
by his company as they thronged to the assault, the magistrate had been carried here and there,
as the tide of attack and defence flowed or ebbed, without the power, latterly, of even uttering
a word until, as the sea casts a log of driftwood ashore in the first creek, he had been ultimately
thrown in the entrance to the Ladies of Croye's apartments, where the encumbrance of his own
armour, with the superincumbent weight of two men slain in the entrance, and who fell above
him, might have fixed him down long enough, had he not been relieved by Durward.

The same warmth of temper which rendered Hermann Pavillon a hot headed and intemperate zealot
in politics, had the more desirable consequence of making him, in private, a good tempered,
kind hearted man, who, if sometimes a little misled by vanity, was always well meaning and
benevolent. He told Quentin to have an especial care of the poor pretty yung frau [young woman],
and, after this unnecessary exhortation, began to halloo from the window, "Liege, Liege, for
the gallant skinners' guild of curriers!"

One or two of his immediate followers collected at the summons and at the peculiar whistle
with which it was accompanied (each of the crafts having such a signal among themselves), and,
more joining them, established a guard under the window from which their leader was bawling,
and before the postern door.

Matters seemed now settling into some sort of tranquillity. All opposition had ceased, and
the leaders of the different classes of assailants were taking measures to prevent indiscriminate
plunder. The great bell was tolled, a summons to a military counsel, and its iron tongue communicating
to Liege the triumphant possession of Schonwaldt by the insurgents, was answered by all the
bells in that city, whose distant and clamorous voices seemed to cry, Hail to the victors!
It would have been natural that Meinheer Pavillon should now have sallied from his fastness,
but either in reverent care of those whom he had taken under his protection, or perhaps for
the better assurance of his own safety, he contented himself with dispatching messenger on
messenger, to command his lieutenant, Peterkin Geislaer, to attend him directly.

Peterkin came, at length, to his great relief, as being the person upon whom, on all pressing
occasions, whether of war, politics, or commerce, Pavillon was most accustomed to repose confidence.
He was a stout, squat figure, with a square face and broad black eyebrows, that announced him
to be opinionative and disputatious,--an advice giving countenance, so to speak. He was endued
with a buff jerkin, wore a broad belt and cutlass by his side, and carried a halberd in his hand.

"Peterkin, my dear lieutenant," said the commander, "this has been a glorious day--night I
should say--I trust thou art pleased for once."

"I am well enough pleased that you are so," said the doughty lieutenant, "though I should not
have thought of your celebrating the victory, if you call it one, up in this garret by yourself,
when you are wanted in council."

"But am I wanted there?" said the Syndic.

"Ay, marry are you, to stand up for the rights of Liege, that are in more danger than ever,"
answered the lieutenant.

"Pshaw, Peterkin," answered his principal, "thou art ever such a frampold grumbler--"

"Grumbler? not I," said Peterkin, "what pleases other people will always please me. Only I
wish we have not got King Stork, instead of King Log, like the fabliau [fable] that the Clerk
of Saint Lambert's used to read us out of Meister Aesop's book."

[Refers to Aesop's fable. The commonwealth of frogs, having conceived an aversion for their
amiable king Log, asked Jupiter to send them another sovereign. He accordingly bestowed upon
them a stork who gradually devoured all his subjects.]

"I cannot guess your meaning," said the Syndic.

"Why then, I tell you, Master Pavillon, that this Boar or Bear is like to make his own den
of Schonwaldt, and is probable to turn out as bad a neighbour to our town as ever was the old
Bishop, and worse. Here has he taken the whole conquest in his own hand, and is only doubting
whether he should be called Prince or Bishop--and it is a shame to see how they have mishandled
the old man among them."

"I will not permit it, Peterkin," said Pavillon, hustling up, "I disliked the mitre, but not
the head that wore it. We are ten to one in the field, Peterkin, and will not permit these
courses."

"Ay, ten to one in the field, but only man to man in the castle, besides that Nikkel Blok the
butcher, and all the rabble of the suburbs, take part with William de la Marck, partly for
saus and braus [means here carousing] (for he has broached all the ale tubs and wine casks),
and partly for old envy towards us, who are the craftsmen, and have privileges."

"Peter," said Pavillon, "we will go presently to the city. I will stay no longer in Schonwaldt."

"But the bridges of this castle are up, master," said Geislaer--"the gates locked, and guarded
by these lanzknechts, and, if we were to try to force our way, these fellows, whose everyday
business is war, might make wild work of us that only fight of a holyday."

"But why has he secured the gates?" said the alarmed burgher, "or what business hath he to
make honest men prisoners?"

"I cannot tell--not I," said Peter. "Some noise there is about the Ladies of Croye, who have
escaped during the storm of the castle. That first put the Man with the Beard beside himself
with anger, and now he 's beside himself with drink also."

The Burgomaster cast a disconsolate look towards Quentin, and seemed at a loss what to resolve
upon. Durward, who had not lost a word of the conversation, which alarmed him very much, saw
nevertheless that their only safety depended on his preserving his own presence of mind, and
sustaining the courage of Pavillon. He struck boldly into the conversation, as one who had
a right to have a voice in the deliberation.

"I am ashamed," he said, "Meinheer Pavillon, to observe you hesitate what to do on this occasion.
Go boldly to William de la Marck, and demand free leave to quit the castle, you, your lieutenant,
your squire, and your daughter. He can have no pretence for keeping you prisoner."

"For me and my lieutenant--that is myself and Peter?--Good--but who is my squire?"

"I am for the present," replied the undaunted Scot.

"You!" said the embarrassed burgess, "but are you not the envoy of King Louis of France?"

"True, but my message is to the magistrates of Liege--and only in Liege will I deliver it.--Were
I to acknowledge my quality before William de la Marck, must I not enter into negotiations
with him? Ay, and, it is like, be detained by him. You must get me secretly out of the castle
in the capacity of your squire."

"Good--my squire--but you spoke of my daughter--my daughter is, I trust, safe in my house in
Liege--where I wish her father was, with all my heart and soul."

"This lady," said Durward, "will call you father while we are in this place."

"And for my whole life afterwards," said the Countess, throwing herself at the citizen's feet,
and clasping his knees.

"Never shall the day pass in which I will not honour you, love you, and pray for you as a daughter
for a father, if you will but aid me in this fearful strait.--Oh, be not hard hearted! Think,
your own daughter may kneel to a stranger, to ask him for life and honour--think of this, and
give me the protection you would wish her to receive!"

"In troth," said the good citizen, much moved with her pathetic appeal, "I think, Peter, that
this pretty maiden hath a touch of our Trudchen's sweet look--I thought so from the first,
and that this brisk youth here, who is so ready with his advice, is somewhat like Trudchen's
bachelor--I wager a groat, Peter, that this is a true love matter, and it is a sin not to further
it."

"It were shame and sin both," said Peter, a good natured Fleming, notwithstanding all his self
conceit, and as he spoke he wiped his eyes with the sleeve of his jerkin.

"She shall be my daughter, then," said Pavillon, "well wrapped up in her black silk veil and
if there are not enough of true hearted skinners to protect her, being the daughter of their
Syndic, it were pity they should ever tug leather more.--But hark ye--questions must be answered--How
if I am asked what should my daughter make here at such an onslaught?"

"What should half the women in Liege make here when they followed us to the castle?" said Peter.
"They had no other reason, sure, but that it was just the place in the world that they should
not have come to. Our yung frau Trudchen has come a little farther than the rest--that is all."

"Admirably spoken," said Quentin, "only be bold, and take this gentleman's good counsel, noble
Meinheer Pavillon, and, at no trouble to yourself, you will do the most worthy action since
the days of Charlemagne.--Here, sweet lady, wrap yourself close in this veil" (for many articles
of female apparel lay scattered about the apartment)--"be but confident, and a few minutes
will place you in freedom and safety. Noble Sir," he added, addressing Pavillon, "set forward."

"Hold--hold--hold a minute," said Pavillon, "my mind misgives me!--This De la Marck is a fury,
a perfect boar in his nature as in his name, what if the young lady be one of those of Croye?--and
what if he discover her, and be addicted to wrath?"

"And if I were one of those unfortunate women," said Isabelle, again attempting to throw herself
at his feet, "could you for that reject me in this moment of despair? Oh, that I had been indeed
your daughter, or the daughter of the poorest burgher!"

"Not so poor--not so poor neither, young lady--we pay as we go," said the citizen.

"Forgive me, noble sir," again began the unfortunate maiden.

"Not noble, nor sir, neither," said the Syndic, "a plain burgher of Liege, that pays bills
of exchange in ready guilders.--But that is nothing to the purpose.--Well, say you be a countess,
I will protect you nevertheless."

"You are bound to protect her, were she a duchess," said Peter, "having once passed your word."

"Right, Peter, very right," said the Syndic "it is our old Low Dutch fashion, ein wort, ein
man [a man of his word], and now let us to this gear. We must take leave of this William de
la Marck, and yet I know not, my mind misgives me when I think of him, and were it a ceremony
which could be waived, I have no stomach to go through it."

"Were you not better, since you have a force together, to make for the gate and force the guard?"
said Quentin.

But with united voice, Pavillon and his adviser exclaimed against the propriety of such an
attack upon their ally's soldiers, with some hints concerning its rashness, which satisfied
Quentin that it was not a risk to be hazarded with such associates.

They resolved, therefore, to repair boldly to the great hall of the castle, where, as they
understood, the Wild Boar of Ardennes held his feast, and demand free egress for the Syndic
of Liege and his company, a request too reasonable, as it seemed, to be denied. Still the good
burgomaster groaned when he looked on his companions, and exclaimed to his faithful Peter,
"See what it is to have too bold and too tender a heart! Alas! Peterkin, how much have courage
and humanity cost me! and how much may I yet have to pay for my virtues, before Heaven makes
us free of this damned Castle of Schonwaldt!"

As they crossed the courts, still strewed with the dying and dead, Quentin, while he supported
Isabelle through the scene of horrors, whispered to her courage and comfort, and reminded her
that her safety depended entirely on her firmness and presence of mind.

"Not on mine--not on mine," she said, "but on yours--on yours only. Oh, if I but escape this
fearful night, never shall I forget him who saved me! One favour more only, let me implore
at your hand, and I conjure you to grant it, by your mother's fame and your father's honour!"

"What is it you can ask that I could refuse?" said Quentin, in a whisper.

"Plunge your dagger in my heart," said she, "rather than leave me captive in the hands of these
monsters."

Quentin's only answer was a pressure of the young Countess's hand, which seemed as if, but
for terror, it would have returned the caress. And, leaning on her youthful protector, she
entered the fearful hall, preceded by Pavillon and his lieutenant, and followed by a dozen
of the Kurschenschaft, or skinner's trade, who attended as a guard of honour on the Syndic.

As they approached the hall, the yells of acclamation and bursts of wild laughter which proceeded
from it, seemed rather to announce the revel of festive demons, rejoicing after some accomplished
triumph over the human race, than of mortal beings who had succeeded in a bold design. An emphatic
tone of mind, which despair alone could have inspired, supported the assumed courage of the
Countess Isabelle, undaunted spirits, which rose with the extremity, maintained that of Durward,
while Pavillon and his lieutenant made a virtue of necessity, and faced their fate like bears
bound to a stake, which must necessarily stand the dangers of the course.

CHAPTER XXII: THE REVELLERS

     Cade.--Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
     Dick.--Here, sir.
     Cade.--They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou
     behavedst thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own slaughter
     house.

     SECOND PART OF KING HENRY V.

There could hardly exist a more strange and horrible change than had taken place in the castle
hall of Schonwaldt since Quentin had partaken of the noontide meal there, and it was indeed
one which painted, in the extremity of their dreadful features, the miseries of war--more especially
when waged by those most relentless of all agents, the mercenary soldiers of a barbarous age--men
who, by habit and profession, had become familiarized with all that was cruel and bloody in
the art of war, while they were devoid alike of patriotism and of the romantic spirit of chivalry.

Instead of the orderly, decent, and somewhat formal meal, at which civil and ecclesiastical
officers had, a few hours before, sat mingled in the same apartment, where a light jest could
only be uttered in a whisper, and where, even amid superfluity of feasting and of wine, there
reigned a decorum which almost amounted to hypocrisy, there was now such a scene of wild and
roaring debauchery as Satan himself, had he taken the chair as founder of the feast, could
scarcely have improved.

At the head of the table sat, in the Bishop's throne and state, which had been hastily brought
thither from his great council chamber, the redoubted Boar of Ardennes himself, well deserving
that dreaded name in which he affected to delight, and which he did as much as he could think
of to deserve.

His head was unhelmeted, but he wore the rest of his ponderous and bright armour, which indeed
he rarely laid aside. Over his shoulders hung a strong surcoat, made of the dressed skin of
a huge wild boar, the hoofs being of solid silver and the tusks of the same. The skin of the
head was so arranged, that, drawn over the casque, when the Baron was armed, or over his bare
head in the fashion of a hood, as he often affected when the helmet was laid aside, and as
he now wore it, the effect was that of a grinning, ghastly monster, and yet the countenance
which it overshadowed scarce required such horrors to improve those which were natural to its
ordinary expression.

The upper part of De la Marck's face, as Nature had formed it, almost gave the lie to his character,
for though his hair, when uncovered, resembled the rude and wild bristles of the hood he had
drawn over it, yet an open, high, and manly forehead, broad ruddy cheeks, large, sparkling,
light coloured eyes, and a nose which looked like the beak of the eagle, promised something
valiant and generous. But the effect of these more favourable traits was entirely overpowered
by his habits of violence and insolence, which, joined to debauchery and intemperance, had
stamped upon the features a character inconsistent with the rough gallantry which they would
otherwise have exhibited. The former had, from habitual indulgence, swollen the muscles of
the cheeks and those around the eyes, in particular the latter; evil practices and habits had
dimmed the eyes themselves, reddened the part of them that should have been white, and given
the whole face a hideous likeness of the monster which it was the terrible Baron's pleasure
to resemble. But from an odd sort of contradiction, De la March, while he assumed in other
respects the appearance of the Wild Boar, and even seemed pleased with the name, yet endeavoured,
by the length and growth of his beard, to conceal the circumstance that had originally procured
him that denomination. This was an unusual thickness and projection of the mouth and upper
jaw, which, with the huge projecting side teeth, gave that resemblance to the bestial creation,
which, joined to the delight that De la Marck had in hunting the forest so called, originally
procured for him the name of the Boar of Ardennes. The beard, broad, grisly, and uncombed,
neither concealed the natural horrors of the countenance, nor dignified its brutal expression.

The soldiers and officers sat around the table, intermixed with the men of Liege, some of them
of the very lowest description, among whom Nikkel Blok the butcher, placed near De la Marck
himself, was distinguished by his tucked up sleeves, which displayed arms smeared to the elbows
with blood, as was the cleaver which lay on the table before him. The soldiers wore, most of
them, their beards long and grisly, in imitation of their leader, had their hair plaited and
turned upwards, in the manner that ought best improve the natural ferocity of their appearance,
and intoxicated, as many of them seemed to be, partly with the sense of triumph, and partly
with the long libations of wine which they had been quaffing, presented a spectacle at once
hideous and disgusting. The language which they held, and the songs which they sang, without
even pretending to pay each other the compliment of listening, were so full of license and
blasphemy, that Quentin blessed God that the extremity of the noise prevented them from being
intelligible to his companion.

It only remains to say of the better class of burghers who were associated with William de
la Marck's soldiers in this fearful revel that the wan faces and anxious mien of the greater
part showed that they either disliked their entertainment, or feared their companions, while
some of lower education, or a nature more brutal, saw only in the excesses of the soldier a
gallant bearing, which they would willingly imitate, and the tone of which they endeavoured
to catch so far as was possible, and stimulated themselves to the task, by swallowing immense
draughts of wine and schwarzbier [black beer]--indulging a vice 'which at all times was too
common in the Low Countries.

The preparations for the feast had been as disorderly as the quality of the company. The whole
of the Bishop's plate--nay, even that belonging to the service of the Church--for the Boar
of Ardennes regarded not the imputation of sacrilege--was mingled with black jacks, or huge
tankards made of leather, and drinking horns of the most ordinary description.

One circumstance of horror remains to be added and accounted for, and we willingly leave the
rest of the scene to the imagination of the reader. Amidst the wild license assumed by the
soldiers of De la Marck, one who was excluded from the table (a lanzknecht, remarkable for
his courage and for his daring behaviour during the storm of the evening), had impudently snatched
up a large silver goblet, and carried it off declaring it should atone for his loss of the
share of the feast. The leader laughed till his sides shook at a jest so congenial to the character
of the company, but when another, less renowned, it would seem, for audacity in battle, ventured
on using the same freedom, De la Marck instantly put a check to a jocular practice, which would
soon have cleared his table of all the more valuable decorations.

"Ho! by the spirit of the thunder!" he exclaimed, "those who dare not be men when they face
the enemy, must not pretend to be thieves among their friends. What! thou frontless dastard,
thou--thou who didst wait for opened gate and lowered bridge, when Conrade Horst forced his
way over moat and wall, must thou be malapert?--Knit him up to the stanchions of the hall window!--He
shall beat time with his feet, while we drink a cup to his safe passage to the devil."

The doom was scarce sooner pronounced than accomplished, and in a moment the wretch wrestled
out his last agonies, suspended from the iron bars. His body still hung there when Quentin
and the others entered the hall, and, intercepting the pale moonbeam, threw on the castle floor
an uncertain shadow, which dubiously, yet fearfully, intimated the nature of the substance
that produced it.

When the Syndic Pavillon was announced from mouth to mouth in this tumultuous meeting, he endeavoured
to assume, in right of his authority and influence, an air of importance and equality, which
a glance at the fearful object at the window, and at the wild scene around him, rendered it
very difficult for him to sustain, notwithstanding the exhortations of Peter, who whispered
in his ear with some perturbation, "Up heart, master, or we are but gone men!"

The Syndic maintained his dignity, however, as well as he could, in a short address, in which
he complimented the company upon the great victory gained by the soldiers of De la Marck and
the good citizens of Liege.

"Ay," answered De la Marck, sarcastically, "we have brought down the game at last, quoth my
lady's brach to the wolf hound. But ho! Sir Burgomaster, you come like Mars, with Beauty by
your side. Who is this fair one?--Unveil, unveil--no woman calls her beauty her own tonight."

"It is my daughter, noble leader," answered Pavillon, "and I am to pray your forgiveness for
her wearing a veil. She has a vow for that effect to the Three Blessed Kings."

"I will absolve her of it presently," said De la Marck, "for here, with one stroke of a cleaver,
will I consecrate myself Bishop of Liege, and I trust one living bishop is worth three dead kings."

There was a shuddering and murmur among the guests, for the community of Liege, and even some
of the rude soldiers, reverenced the Kings of Cologne, as they were commonly called, though
they respected nothing else.

"Nay, I mean no treason against their defunct majesties," said De la Marck, "only Bishop I
am determined to be. A prince both secular and ecclesiastical, having power to bind and loose,
will best suit a band of reprobates such as you, to whom no one else would give absolution.--But
come hither, noble Burgomaster--sit beside me, when you shall see me make a vacancy for my
own preferment.--Bring in our predecessor in the holy seat."

A bustle took place in the hall, while Pavillon, excusing himself from the proffered seat of
honour, placed himself near the bottom of the table, his followers keeping close behind him,
not unlike a flock of sheep which, when a stranger dog is in presence, may be sometimes seen
to assemble in the rear of an old bell wether, who is, from office and authority, judged by
them to have rather more courage than themselves. Near the spot sat a very handsome lad, a
natural son, as was said, of the ferocious De la Marck, and towards whom he sometimes showed
affection, and even tenderness. The mother of the boy, a beautiful concubine, had perished
by a blow dealt her by the ferocious leader in a fit of drunkenness or jealousy, and her fate
had caused her tyrant as much remorse as he was capable of feeling. His attachment to the surviving
orphan might be partly owing to these circumstances. Quentin, who had learned this point of
the leader's character from the old priest, planted himself as close as he could to the youth
in question, determined to make him, in some way or other, either a hostage or a protector,
should other means of safety fail them.

While all stood in a kind of suspense, waiting the event of the orders which the tyrant had
issued, one of Pavillon's followers whispered Peter, "Did not our master call that wench his
daughter?--Why, it cannot be our Trudchen. This strapping lass is taller by two inches, and
there is a black lock of hair peeps forth yonder from under her veil. By Saint Michael of the
Marketplace, you might as well call a black bullock's hide a white heifer's!

"Hush! hush!" said Peter, with some presence of mind. "What if our 'master hath a mind to steal
a piece of doe venison out of the Bishop's parks here, without our good dame's knowledge? And
is it for thee or me to be a spy on him?"

"That will not I," answered the other, "though I would not have thought of his turning deer
stealer at his years. Sapperment--what a shy fairy it is! See how she crouches down on yonder
seat, behind folks' backs, to escape the gaze of the Marckers.--But hold, hold, what are they
about to do with the poor old Bishop?"

As he spoke, the Bishop of Liege, Louis of Bourbon, was dragged into the hall of his own palace
by the brutal soldiery. The dishevelled state of his hair, beard, and attire bore witness to
the ill treatment he had already received, and some of his sacerdotal robes, hastily flung
over him, appeared to have been put on in scorn and ridicule of his quality and character.
By good fortune, as Quentin was compelled to think it, the Countess Isabelle, whose feelings
at seeing her protector in such an extremity might have betrayed her own secret and compromised
her safety, was so situated as neither to hear nor see what was about to take place, and Durward
sedulously interposed his own person before her, so as to keep her from observing alike and
from observation.

The scene which followed was short and fearful. When the unhappy Prelate was brought before
the footstool of the savage leader, although in former life only remarkable for his easy and
good natured temper, he showed in this extremity a sense of his dignity and noble blood, well
becoming the high race from which he was descended. His look was composed and undismayed, his
gesture, when the rude hands which dragged him forward were unloosed, was noble, and at the
same time resigned, somewhat between the bearing of a feudal noble and of a Christian martyr
and so much was even De la Marck himself staggered by the firm demeanour of his prisoner and
recollection of the early benefits he had received from him, that he seemed irresolute, cast
down his eyes, and it was not until he had emptied a large goblet of wine, that, resuming his
haughty insolence of look and manner, he thus addressed his unfortunate captive.

"Louis of Bourbon," said the truculent soldier, drawing hard his breath, clenching 'his hands,
setting his teeth, and using the other mechanical actions to rouse up and sustain his native
ferocity of temper, "I sought your friendship, and you rejected mine. What would you now give
that it had been otherwise?--Nikkel, be ready."

The butcher rose, seized his weapon, and stealing round behind De la Marck's chair, stood with
it uplifted in his bare and sinewy hands.

"Look at that man, Louis of Bourbon," said De la Marck again,--"What terms wilt thou now offer,
to escape this dangerous hour?"

The Bishop cast a melancholy but unshaken look upon the grisly satellite, who seemed prepared
to execute the will of the tyrant, and then he said with firmness, "Hear me, William de la
Marck, and good men all, if there be any here who deserve that name, hear the only terms I
can offer to this ruffian.

"William de la Marck, thou hast stirred up to sedition an imperial city--hast assaulted and
taken the palace of a Prince of the Holy German Empire--slain his people--plundered his goods--maltreated
his person, for this thou art liable to the Ban of the Empire [to put a prince under the ban
of the empire was to divest him of his dignities, and to interdict all intercourse and all
offices of humanity with the offender]--hast deserved to be declared outlawed and fugitive,
landless and rightless. Thou hast done more than all this. More than mere human laws hast thou
broken, more than mere human vengeance hast thou deserved. Thou hast broken into the sanctuary
of the Lord--laid violent hands upon a Father of the Church--defiled the house of God with
blood and rapine, like a sacrilegious robber--"

"Hast thou yet done?" said De la Marck, fiercely interrupting him, and stamping with his foot.

"No," answered the Prelate, "for I have not yet told thee the terms which you demanded to hear
from me."

"Go on," said De la Marck, "and let the terms please me better than the preface, or woe to
thy gray head!"

And flinging himself back in his seat, he grinded his teeth till the foam flew from his lips,
as from the tusks of the savage animal whose name and spoils he wore.

"Such are thy crimes," resumed the Bishop, with calm determination, "now hear the terms, which,
as a merciful Prince and a Christian Prelate, setting aside all personal offence, forgiving
each peculiar injury, I condescend to offer. Fling down thy heading staff--renounce thy command--unbind
thy prisoners--restore thy spoil--distribute what else thou hast of goods, to relieve those
whom thou hast made orphans and widows--array thyself in sackcloth and ashes--take a palmer's
staff in thy hand, and go barefooted on pilgrimage to Rome, and we will ourselves be intercessors
for thee with the Imperial Chamber at Ratisbon for thy life, With our Holy Father the Pope
for thy miserable soul."

While Louis of Bourbon proposed these terms, in a tone as decided as if he still occupied his
episcopal throne, and as if the usurper kneeled a suppliant at his feet, the tyrant slowly
raised himself in his chair, the amazement with which he was at first filled giving way gradually
to rage, until, as the Bishop ceased, he looked to Nikkel Blok, and raised his finger, without
speaking a word. The ruffian struck as if he had been doing his office in the common shambles,
and the murdered Bishop sunk, without a groan, at the foot of his own episcopal throne. The
Liegeois, who were not prepared for so horrible a catastrophe, and who had expected to hear
the conference end in some terms of accommodation, started up unanimously, with cries of execration,
mingled with shouts of vengeance.

[In assigning the present date to the murder of the Bishop of Liege, Louis de Bourbon, history
has been violated. It is true that the Bishop was made prisoner by the insurgents of that city.
It is also true that the report of the insurrection came to Charles with a rumour that the
Bishop was slain, which excited his indignation against Louis, who was then in his power. But
these things happened in 1468, and the Bishop's murder did not take place till 1482. In the
months of August and September of that year, William de la Marck, called the Wild Boar of Ardennes,
entered into a conspiracy with the discontented citizens of Liege against their Bishop, Louis
of Bourbon, being aided with considerable sums of money by the King of France. By this means,
and the assistance of many murderers and banditti, who thronged to him as to a leader befitting
them, De la Marck assembled a body of troops, whom he dressed in scarlet as a uniform, with
a boar's head on the left sleeve. With this little army he approached the city of Liege. Upon
this the citizens, who were engaged in the conspiracy, came to their Bishop, and, offering
to stand by him to the death, exhorted him to march out against these robbers. The Bishop,
therefore, put himself at the head of a few troops of his own, trusting to the assistance of
the people of Liege. But so soon as they came in sight of the enemy, the citizens, as before
agreed, fled from the Bishop's banner, and he was left with his own handful of adherents. At
this moment De la Marck charged at the head of his banditti with the expected success. The
Bishop was brought before the profligate Knight, who first cut him over the face, then murdered
him with his own hand, and caused his body to be exposed naked in the great square of Liege
before Saint Lambert's Cathedral. S.]

But William de la Marck, raising his tremendous voice above the tumult, and shaking his clenched
hand and extended arm, shouted aloud, "How now, ye porkers of Liege! ye wallowers in the mud
of the Maes!--do ye dare to mate yourselves with the Wild Boar of Ardennes?--Up, ye Boar's
brood!" (an expression by which he himself, and others, often designated his soldiers) "let
these Flemish hogs see your tusks!"

Every one of his followers started up at the command, and mingled as they were among their
late allies, prepared too for such a surprisal, each had, in an instant, his next neighbour
by the collar, while his right hand brandished a broad dagger that glimmered against lamplight
and moonshine. Every arm was uplifted, but no one struck, for the victims were too much surprised
for resistance, 'and it was probably the object of De la Marck only to impose terror on his
civic confederates.

But the courage of Quentin Durward, prompt and alert in resolution beyond his years, and stimulated
at the moment by all that could add energy to his natural shrewdness and resolution, gave a
new turn to the scene. Imitating the action of the followers of De la Marck, he sprang on Carl
Eberson, the son of their leader, and mastering him with ease, held his dirk at the boy's throat,
while he exclaimed, "Is that your game? then here I play my part."

"Hold! hold!" exclaimed De la Marck, "it is a jest--a jest.--Think you I would injure my good
friends and allies of the city of Liege!--Soldiers, unloose your holds, sit down, take away
the carrion" (giving the Bishop's corpse a thrust with his foot) "which hath caused this strife
among friends, and let us drown unkindness in a fresh carouse."

All unloosened their holds, and the citizens and the soldiers stood gazing on each other, as
if they scarce knew whether they were friends or foes. Quentin Durward took advantage of the
moment.

"Hear me," he said, "William de la Marck, and you, burghers and citizens of Liege--and do you,
young sir, stand still" (for the boy Carl was attempting to escape from his grip)--"no harm
shall befall you unless another of these sharp jests shall pass around."

"Who art thou, in the fiend's name," said the astonished De la Marck, "who art come to hold
terms and take hostages from us in our own lair--from us, who exact pledges from others, but
yield them to no one?"

"I am a servant of King Louis of France," said Quentin, boldly, "an Archer of his Scottish
Guard, as my language and dress may partly tell you. I am here to behold and to report your
proceedings, and I see with wonder that they are those of heathens, rather than Christians--of
madmen, rather than men possessed of reason. The hosts of Charles of Burgundy will be instantly
in motion against you all, and if you wish assistance from France, you must conduct yourself
in a different manner.

"For you, men of Liege, I advise your instant return to your own city, and if there is any
obstruction offered to your departure, I denounce those by whom it is so offered, foes to my
master, his Most Gracious Majesty of France."

"France and Liege! France and Liege!" cried the followers of Pavillon, and several other citizens
whose courage began to rise at the bold language held by Quentin.

"France and Liege, and long live the gallant Archer! We will live and die with him!"

William de la Marck's eyes sparkled, and he grasped his dagger as if about to launch it at
the heart of the audacious speaker, but glancing his eye around, he read something in the looks
of his soldiers which even he was obliged to respect. Many of them were Frenchmen, and all
of them knew the private support which William had received, both in men and in money, from
that kingdom, nay, some of them were rather startled at the violent and sacrilegious action
which had been just committed. The name of Charles of Burgundy, a person likely to resent to
the utmost the deeds of that night, had an alarming sound, and the extreme impolicy of at once
quarrelling with the Liegeois and provoking the Monarch of France, made an appalling impression
on their minds, confused as their intellects were. De la Marck, in short, saw he would not
be supported, even by his own band, in any farther act of immediate violence, and relaxing
the terrors of his brow and eye, declared that he had not the least design against his good
friends of Liege, all of whom were at liberty to depart from Schonwaldt at their pleasure,
although he had hoped they would revel one night with him, at least, in honour of their victory.
He added, with more calmness than he commonly used, that he would be ready to enter into negotiation
concerning the partition of spoil, and the arrangement of measures for their mutual defence,
either the next day, or as soon after as they would. Meantime he trusted that the Scottish
gentleman would honour his feast by remaining all night at Schonwaldt.

The young Scot returned his thanks, but said his motions must be determined by those of Pavillon,
to whom he was directed particularly to attach himself, but that, unquestionably, he would
attend him on his next return to the quarters of the valiant William de la Marck.

"If you depend on my motions," said Pavillon, hastily and aloud, "you are likely to quit Schonwaldt
without an instant's delay--and, if you do not come back to Schonwaldt, save in my company,
you are not likely to see it again in a hurry."

This last part of the sentence the honest citizen muttered to himself, afraid of the consequences
of giving audible vent 'to feelings which, nevertheless, he was unable altogether to suppress.

"Keep close about me, my brisk Kurschner [a worker in fur] lads." he said to his bodyguard,
"and we will get as fast as we can out of this den of thieves."

Most of the better classes of the Liegeois seemed to entertain similar opinions with the Syndic,
and there had been scarce so much joy amongst them at the obtaining possession of Schonwaldt
as now seemed to arise from the prospect of getting safe out of it. They were suffered to leave
the castle without opposition of any kind, and glad was Quentin when he turned his back on
those formidable walls.

For the first time since they had entered that dreadful hall, Quentin ventured to ask the young
Countess how she did.

"Well, well," she answered, in feverish haste, "excellently well--do not stop to ask a question,
let us not lose an instant in words.--Let us fly--let us fly!"

She endeavoured to mend her pace as she spoke, but with so little success that she must have
fallen from exhaustion had not Durward supported her. With the tenderness of a mother, when
she conveys her infant out of danger, the young Scot raised his precious charge in his arms,
and while she encircled his neck with one arm, lost to every other thought save the desire
of escaping, he would not have wished one of the risks of the night unencountered, since such
had been the conclusion.

The honest Burgomaster was, in his turn, supported and dragged forward by his faithful counsellor
Peter, and another of his clerks, and thus, in breathless haste, they reached the banks of
the river, encountering many strolling bands of citizens, who were eager to know the event
of the siege, and the truth of certain rumours already afloat that the conquerors had quarrelled
among themselves.

Evading their curiosity as they best could, the exertions of Peter and some of his companions
at length procured a boat for the use of the company, and with it an opportunity of enjoying
some repose, equally welcome to Isabelle, who continued to lie almost motionless in the arms
of her deliverer, and to the worthy Burgomaster, who, after delivering a broken string of thanks
to Durward, whose mind was at the time too much occupied to answer him, began a long harangue,
which he addressed to Peter, upon his own courage and benevolence, and the dangers to which
these virtues had exposed him, on this and other occasions.

"Peter, Peter," he said, resuming the complaint of the preceding evening, "if I had not had
a bold heart, I would never have stood out against paying the burghers twentieths, when every
other living soul was willing to pay the same.--Ay, and then a less stout heart had not seduced
me into that other battle of Saint Tron, where a Hainault man at arms thrust me into a muddy
ditch with his lance, which neither heart nor hand that I had could help me out of till the
battle was over.--Ay, and then, Peter, this very night my courage seduced me, moreover, into
too strait a corselet, which would have been the death of me, but for the aid of this gallant
young gentleman, whose trade is fighting, whereof I wish him heartily joy. And then for my
tenderness of heart, Peter, it has made a poor man of me, that is, it would have made a poor
man of me, if I had not been tolerably well to pass in this wicked world--and Heaven knows
what trouble it is likely to bring on me yet, with ladies, countesses, and keeping of secrets,
which, for aught I know, may cost me half my fortune, and my neck into the bargain!"

Quentin could remain no longer silent, but assured him that whatever danger or damage he should
incur on the part of the young lady now under his protection should be thankfully acknowledged,
and, as far as was possible, repaid.

"I thank you, young Master Squire Archer, I thank you," answered the citizen of Liege "but
who was it told you that I desired any repayment at your hand for doing the duty of an honest
man? I only regretted that it might cost me so and so, and I hope I may have leave to say so
much to my lieutenant, without either grudging my loss or my peril."

Quentin accordingly concluded that his present friend was one of the numerous class of benefactors
to others, who take out their reward in grumbling, without meaning more than, by showing their
grievances, to exalt a little the idea of the valuable service by which they have incurred
them, and therefore prudently remained silent, and suffered the Syndic to maunder on to his
lieutenant concerning the risk and the loss he had encountered by his zeal for the public good,
and his disinterested services to individuals, until they reached his own habitation.

The truth was, that the honest citizen felt that he had lost a little consequence, by suffering
the young stranger to take the lead at the crisis which had occurred at the castle hall of
Schonwaldt, and, however delighted with the effect of Durward's interference at the moment,
it seemed to him, on reflection, that he had sustained a diminution of importance, for which
he endeavoured to obtain compensation by exaggerating the claims which he had upon the gratitude
of his country in general, his friends in particular, and more especially still, on the Countess
of Croye, and her youthful protector.

But when the boat stopped at the bottom of his garden, and he had got himself assisted on shore
by Peter, it seemed as if the touch of his own threshold had at once dissipated those feelings
of wounded self opinion and jealousy, and converted the discontented and obscured demagogue
into the honest, kind, hospitable, and friendly host. He called loudly for Trudchen, who presently
appeared, for fear and anxiety would permit few within the walls of Liege to sleep during that
eventful night. She was charged to pay the utmost attention to the care of the beautiful and
half fainting stranger, and, admiring her personal charms, while she pitied her distress, Gertrude
discharged the hospitable duty with the zeal and affection of a sister.

Late as it now was, and fatigued as the Syndic appeared, Quentin, on his side, had difficulty
to escape a flask of choice and costly wine, as old as the battle of Azincour, and must have
submitted to take his share, however unwilling, but for the appearance of the mother of the
family, whom Pavillon's loud summons for the keys of the cellar brought forth from her bedroom.
She was a jolly little roundabout, woman, who had been pretty in her time, but whose principal
characteristics for several years had been a red and sharp nose, a shrill voice, and a determination
that the Syndic, in consideration of the authority which he exercised when abroad, should remain
under the rule of due discipline at home.

So soon as she understood the nature of the debate between her husband and his guest, she declared
roundly that the former, instead of having occasion for more wine, had got too much already,
and, far from using, in furtherance of his request, any of the huge bunch of keys which hung
by a silver chain at her waist, she turned her back on him without ceremony, and ushered Quentin
to the neat and pleasant apartment in which he was to spend the night, amid such appliances
to rest and comfort as probably he had till that moment been entirely a stranger to, so much
did the wealthy Flemings excel, not merely the poor and rude Scots, but the French themselves
in all the conveniences of domestic life.

CHAPTER XXIII: THE FLIGHT

     Now bid me run,
     And I will strive with things impossible;
     Yea, get the better of them.

     Set on your foot;
     And, with a heart new fired, I follow you,
     To do I know not what.

     JULIUS CAESAR

In spite of a mixture of joy and fear, doubt, anxiety, and other agitating passions, the exhausting
fatigues of the preceding day were powerful enough to throw the young Scot into a deep and
profound repose, which lasted until late on the day following, when his worthy host entered
the apartment with looks of care on his brow.

He seated himself by his guest's bedside, and began a long and complicated discourse upon the
domestic duties of a married life, and especially upon the awful power and right supremacy
which it became married men to sustain in all differences of opinion with their wives. Quentin
listened with some anxiety. He knew that husbands, like other belligerent powers, were sometimes
disposed to sing Te Deum [Te Deum laudamus: We praise Thee, O God; the first words of an ancient
hymn, sung in the morning service of the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches], rather to conceal
a defeat than to celebrate a victory, and he hastened to probe the matter more closely, by
hoping their arrival had been attended with no inconvenience to the good lady of the household.

"Inconvenience!--no," answered the Burgomaster.--"No woman can be less taken unawares than
Mother Mabel--always happy to see her friends--always a clean lodging and a handsome meal ready
for them, with God's blessing on bed and board.--No woman on earth so hospitable--only 'tis
pity her temper is something particular."

"Our residence here is disagreeable to her, in short?" said the Scot, starting out of bed,
and beginning to dress himself hastily. "Were I but sure the Lady Isabelle were fit for travel
after the horrors of the last night, we would not increase the offence by remaining here an
instant longer."

"Nay," said Pavillon, "that is just what the young lady herself said to Mother Mabel, and truly
I wish you saw the colour that came to her face as she said it--a milkmaid that has skated
five miles to market against the frost wind is a lily compared to it--I do not wonder Mother
Mabel may be a little jealous, poor dear soul."

"Has the Lady Isabelle then left her apartment?" said the youth, continuing his toilette operations
with more dispatch than before.

"Yes," replied Pavillon, "and she expects your approach with much impatience, to determine
which way you shall go since you are both determined on going. But I trust you will tarry breakfast?"

"Why did you not tell me this sooner?" said Durward, impatiently.

"Softly--softly," said the Syndic, "I have told it you too soon, I think, if it puts you into
such a hasty fluster. Now I have some more matter for your ear, if I saw you had some patience
to listen to me."

"Speak it, worthy sir, as soon and as fast as you can--I listen devoutly."

"Well," resumed the Burgomaster, "I have but one word to say, and that is that Trudchen, who
is as sorry to part with yonder pretty lady as if she had been some sister of hers, wants you
to take some other disguise, for there is word in the town that the Ladies of Croye travel
the country in pilgrim's dresses, attended by a French life guardsman of the Scottish Archers,
and it is said one of them was brought into Schonwaldt last night by a Bohemian after we had
left it, and it was said still farther, that this same Bohemian had assured William de la Marck
that you were charged with no message either to him or to the good people of Liege, and that
you had stolen away the young Countess, and travelled with her as her paramour. And all this
news hath come from Schonwaldt this morning, and it has been told to us and the other councillors,
who know not well what to advise, for though our own opinion is that William de la Marck has
been a thought too rough both with the Bishop and with ourselves, yet there is a great belief
that he is a good natured soul at bottom--that is, when he is sober--and that he is the only
leader in the world to command us against the Duke of Burgundy, and, in truth, as matters stand,
it is partly my own mind that we must keep fair with him, for we have gone too far to draw back."

"Your daughter advises well," said Quentin Durward, abstaining from reproaches or exhortations,
which he saw would be alike unavailing to sway a resolution which had been adopted by the worthy
magistrate in compliance at once with the prejudices of his party and the inclination of his wife.

"Your daughter counsels well.--We must part in disguise, and that instantly. We may, I trust,
rely upon you for the necessary secrecy, and for the means of escape?"

"With all my heart--with all my heart," said the honest citizen, who, not much satisfied with
the dignity of his own conduct, was eager to find some mode of atonement. "I cannot but remember
that I owed you my life last night, both for unclasping that accursed steel doublet, and helping
me through the other scrape, which was worse, for yonder Boar and his brood look more like
devils than men. So I will be true to you as blade to haft, as our cutlers say, who are the
best in the whole world. Nay, now you are ready, come this way--you shall see how far I can
trust you."

The Syndic led him from the chamber in which he had slept to his own counting room, in which
he transacted his affairs of business, and after bolting the door, and casting a piercing and
careful eye around him, he opened a concealed and vaulted closet behind the tapestry, in which
stood more than one iron chest. He proceeded to open one which was full of guilders, and placed
it at Quentin's discretion to take whatever sum he might think necessary for his companion's
expenses and his own.

As the money with which Quentin was furnished on leaving Plessis was now nearly expended, he
hesitated not to accept the sum of two hundred guilders, and by doing so took a great weight
from the mind of Pavillon, who considered the desperate transaction in which he thus voluntarily
became the creditor as an atonement for the breach of hospitality which various considerations
in a great measure compelled him to commit.

Having carefully locked his treasure chamber, the wealthy Fleming next conveyed his guest to
the parlour, where, in full possession of her activity of mind and body, though pale from the
scenes of the preceding night, he found the Countess attired in the fashion of a Flemish maiden
of the middling class. No other was present excepting Trudchen, who was sedulously employed
in completing the Countess's dress, and instructing her how to bear herself. She extended her
hand to him, which, when he had reverently kissed, she said to him, "Seignior Quentin, we must
leave our friends here unless I would bring on them a part of the misery which has pursued
me ever since my father's death. You must change your dress and go with me, unless you also
are tired of befriending a being so unfortunate."

"I!--I tired of being your attendant!--To the end of the earth will I guard you! But you--you
yourself--are you equal to the task you undertake!--Can you, after the terrors of last night"

"Do not recall them to my memory," answered the Countess, "I remember but the confusion of
a horrid dream.--Has the excellent Bishop escaped?"

"I trust he is in freedom," said Quentin, making a sign to Pavillon, who seemed about to enter
on the dreadful narrative, to be silent.

"Is it possible for us to rejoin him?--Hath he gathered any power?" said the lady.

"His only hopes are in Heaven," said the Scot, "but wherever you wish to go, I stand by your
side, a determined guide and guard."

"We will consider," said Isabelle, and after a moment's pause, she added, "A convent would
be my choice, but that I fear it would prove a weak defence against those who pursue me."

"Hem! hem!" said the Syndic, "I could not well recommend a convent within the district of Liege,
because the Boar of Ardennes, though in the main a brave leader, a trusty confederate, and
a well wisher to our city, has, nevertheless, rough humours, and payeth, on the whole, little
regard to cloisters, convents, nunneries, and the like. Men say that there are a score of nuns--that
is, such as were nuns--who march always with his company."

"Get yourself in readiness hastily, Seignior Durward," said Isabelle, interrupting this detail,
"since to your faith I must needs commit myself."

No sooner had the Syndic and Quentin left the room than Isabelle began to ask of Gertrude various
questions concerning the roads, and so forth, with such clearness of spirit and pertinence,
that the latter could not help exclaiming, "Lady, I wonder at you!--I have heard of masculine
firmness, but yours appears to me more than belongs to humanity."

"Necessity," answered the Countess,--"necessity, my friend, is the mother of courage, as of
invention. No long time since, I might have fainted when I saw a drop of blood shed from a
trifling cut--I have since seen life blood flow around me, I may say, in waves, yet I have
retained my senses and my self possession.--Do not think it was an easy task," she added, laying
on Gertrude's arm a trembling hand, although she still spoke with a firm voice, "the little
world within me is like a garrison besieged by a thousand foes, whom nothing but the most determined
resolution can keep from storming it on every hand, and at every moment. Were my situation
one whit less perilous than it is--were I not sensible that my only chance to escape a fate
more horrible than death is to retain my recollection and self possession--Gertrude, I would
at this moment throw myself into your arms, and relieve my bursting bosom by such a transport
of tears and agony of terror as never rushed from a breaking heart."

"Do not do so, lady!" said the sympathizing Fleming, "take courage, tell your beads, throw
yourself on the care of Heaven, and surely, if ever Heaven sent a deliverer to one ready to
perish, that bold and adventurous young gentleman must be designed for yours. There is one,
too," she added, blushing deeply, "in whom I have some interest. Say nothing to my father,
but I have ordered my bachelor, Hans Glover, to wait for you at the eastern gate, and never
to see my face more, unless he brings word that he has guided you safe from the territory."

To kiss her tenderly was the only way in which the young Countess could express her thanks
to the frank and kind hearted city maiden, who returned the embrace affectionately, and added,
with a smile, "Nay, if two maidens and their devoted bachelors cannot succeed in a disguise
and an escape, the world is changed from what I am told it wont to be."

A part of this speech again called the colour into the Countess's pale cheeks, which was not
lessened by Quentin's sudden appearance. He entered completely attired as a Flemish boor of
the better class, in the holyday suit of Peter, who expressed his interest in the young Scot
by the readiness with which he parted with it for his use, and swore, at the same time, that,
were he to be curried and tugged worse than ever was bullock's hide, they should make nothing
out of him, to the betraying of the young folks. Two stout horses had been provided by the
activity of Mother Mabel, who really desired the Countess and her attendant no harm, so that
she could make her own house and family clear of the dangers which might attend upon harbouring
them. She beheld them mount and go off with great satisfaction, after telling them that they
would find their way to the east gate by keeping their eye on Peter, who was to walk in that
direction as their guide, but without holding any visible communication with them. The instant
her guests had departed, Mother Mabel took the opportunity to read a long practical lecture
to Trudchen upon the folly of reading romances, whereby the flaunting ladies of the Court were
grown so bold and venturous, that, instead of applying to learn some honest housewifery, they
must ride, forsooth, a-damsel erranting through the country, with no better attendant than
some idle squire, debauched page, or rake belly archer from foreign parts, to the great danger
of their health, the impoverishing of their substance, and the irreparable prejudice of their
reputation. All this Gertrude heard in silence, and without reply, but, considering her character,
it might be doubted whether she derived from it the practical inference which it was her mother's
purpose to enforce. Meantime, the travellers had gained the eastern gate of the city, traversing
crowds of people, who were fortunately too much busied in the political events and rumours
of the hour to give any attention to a couple who had so little to render their appearance
remarkable. They passed the guards in virtue of a permission obtained for them by Pavillon,
but in the name of his colleague Rouslaer, and they took leave of Peter Geislaer with a friendly
though brief exchange of good wishes on either side.

