He laid a big bundle on the floor, opened it, and took out the shoes.

"Your shoe box is in the closet there."

"I didn't know what that door was, so I didn't open it."

"That is a part of my arrangements for you," said the Harvester. "Here is a closet with shelves
for your covers and other things. They are bare because I didn't know just what should be put
on them. This is the shoe box here in the corner; I'll put these in it now."

He knelt and in a row set the shoes in the curly maple box and closed it.

"There you are for all kinds of places and varieties of weather. This adjoining is your bathroom.
I put in towels, soaps; brushes, and everything I could think of, and there is hot water ready
for you----rain water, too."

The Girl followed and looked into a shining little bathroom, with its white porcelain tub and
wash bowl, enamelled wood-work, dainty green walls, and white curtains and towels. She could
see no accessory she knew of that was missing, and there were many things to which she never
had been accustomed. The Harvester had gone back to the sunshine room, and was kneeling on
the floor beside the bundle. He began opening boxes and handing her dresses.

"There are skirt, coat, and waist hangers on the hooks," he said. "I only got a few things
to start on, because I didn't know what you would like. Instead of being so careful with that
dress, why don't you take it off, and put on a common one? Then we will have something to eat,
and go to the top of the hill and watch the moon bridge the lake."

While she hung the dresses and selected the one to wear, he placed the mattress, spread the
padding and sheets, and encased the pillow. Then he bent and pressed the springs with his hands.

"I think you will find that soft and easy enough for health," he said. "All the personal belongings
I had that clerk put up for you are in that chest of drawers there. I put the little boxes
in the top and went down. You can empty and arrange them to-morrow. Just hunt out what you
will need now. There should be everything a girl uses there somewhere. I told them to be very
careful about that. If the things are not right or not to your taste, you can take them back
as soon as you are rested, and they will exchange them for you. If there is anything I have
missed that you can think of that you need to-night, tell me and I'll go and get it."

The Girl turned toward him.

"You couldn't be making sport of me," she said, "but Man! Can't you see that I don't know what
to do with half you have here? I never saw such things closely before. I don't know what they
are for. I don't know how to use them. My mother would have known, but I do not. You overwhelm
me! Fifty times I've tried to tell you that a room of my very own, such a room as this will
be when to-morrow's sun comes in, and these, and these, and these," she turned from the chest
of boxes to the dressing table, bed, closet, and bath, "all these for me, and you know absolutely
nothing about me----I get a big lump in my throat, and the words that do come all seem so meaningless,
I am perfectly ashamed to say them. Oh Man, why do you do it?"

"I thought it was about time to spring another 'why' on me," said the Harvester. "Thank God,
I am now in a position where I can tell you 'why'! I do it because you are the girl of my dream,
my mate by every law of Heaven and earth. All men build as well as they know when the one woman
of the universe lays her spell on them. I did all this for myself just as a kind of expression
of what it would be in my heart to do if I could do what I'd like. Put on the easiest dress
you can find and I will go and set out something to eat."

She stood with arms high piled with the prettiest dresses that could be selected hurriedly,
the tears running down her white cheeks and smiled through them at him.

"There wouldn't be any of that liquid amber would there?" she asked.

"Quarts!" cried the Harvester. "I'll bring some. ... Does it really hit the spot, Ruth?" he
questioned as he handed her the glass.

She heaped the dresses on the bed and took it.

"It really does. I am afraid I am using too much."

"I don't think it possibly can hurt you. To-morrow we will ask Doc. How soon will you be ready
for lunch?"

"I don't want a bite."

"You will when you see and smell it," said the Harvester. "I am an expert cook. It's my chiefest
accomplishment. You should taste the dishes I improvise. But there won't be much to-night,
because I want you to see the moon rise over the lake."

He went away and the Girl removed her dress and spread it on the couch. Then she bathed her
face and hands. When she saw the discoloured cloth, it proved that she had been painted, and
made her very indignant. Yet she could not be altogether angry, for that flush of colour had
saved the Harvester from being pitied by his friend. She stood a long time before the mirror,
staring at her gaunt, colourless face; then she went to the dressing table and committed a
crime. She found a box of cream and rubbed it on for a foundation. Then she opened some pink
powder, and carefully dusted her cheeks.

"I am utterly ashamed," she said to the image in the mirror, "but he has done so much for me,
he is so, so----I don't know a word big enough----that I can't bear him to see how ghastly
I am, how little worth it. Perhaps the food, better air, and outdoor exercise will give me
strength and colour soon. Until it does I'm afraid I'm going to help out all I can with this.
It is wonderful how it changes one. I really appear like a girl instead of a bony old woman."

Then she looked over the dresses, selected a pretty white princesse, slipped it on, and went
to the kitchen. But the Harvester would not have her there. He seated her at the dining table,
beside the window overlooking the lake, lighted a pair of his home-made candles in his finest
sticks, and placed before her bread, butter, cold meat, milk, and fruit, and together they
ate their first meal in their home.

"If I had known," said the Harvester, "Granny Moreland is a famous cook. She is a Southern
woman, and she can fry chicken and make some especial dishes to surpass any one I ever knew.
She would have been so pleased to come over and get us an all-right supper."

"I'd much rather have this, and be by ourselves," said the Girl.

"Well, you can bank on it, I would," agreed the Harvester. "For instance, if any one were here,
I might feel restrained about telling you that you are exactly the beautiful, flushed Dream
Girl I have adored for months, and your dress most becoming. You are a picture to blind the
eyes of a lonely bachelor, Ruth."

"Oh why did you say that?" wailed the Girl. "Now I've got to feel like a sneak or tell you----and
I didn't want you to know."

"Don't you ever tell me or any one else anything you don't want to," said the Harvester roundly.
"It's nobody's business!"

"But I must! I can't begin with deception. I was fool enough to think you wouldn't notice.
Man, they painted me! I didn't know they were doing it, but when it all washed off, I looked
so ghastly I almost frightened myself. I hunted through the boxes they put up for you and found
some pink powder----"

"But don't all the daintiest women powder these days, and consider it indispensable? The clerk
said so, and I've noticed it mentioned in the papers. I bought it for you to use."

"Yes, just powder, but Man, I put on a lot of cold cream first to stick the powder good and
thick. Oh I wish I hadn't!"

"Well since you've told it, is your conscience perfectly at ease? No you don't! You sit where
you are! You are lovely, and if you don't use enough powder to cover the paleness, until your
colour returns, I'll hold you and put it on. I know you feel better when you appear so that
every one must admire you."

"Yes, but I'm a fraud!"

"You are no such thing!" cried the Harvester hotly. "There hasn't a woman in ten thousand got
any such rope of hair. I have been seeing the papers on the hair question, too. No one will
believe it's real. If they think your hair is false, when it is natural, they won't be any
more fooled when they think your colour is real, and it isn't. Very soon it will be and no
one need ever know the difference. You go on and fix up your level best. To see yourself appearing
well will make you ambitious to become so as soon as possible."

"Harvester-man," said the Girl, gazing at him with wet luminous eyes, "for the sake of other
women, I could wish that all men had an oath to keep, and had been reared in the woods."

"Here is the place we adjourn to the moon," cried the Harvester. "I don't know of anything
that can cure a sudden accession of swell head like gazing at the heavens. One finds his place
among the atoms naturally and instantaneously with the eyes on the night sky. Should you have
a wrap? You should! The mists from the lake are cool. I don't believe there is one among my
orders. I forgot that. But upstairs with mother's clothing there are several shawls and shoulder
capes. All of them were washed and carefully packed. Would you use one, Ruth?"

"Why not give it to me. Wouldn't she like me to wear her things better than to have them lying
in moth balls?"

The Harvester looked at her and shook his head, marvelling.

"I can't tell how pleased she would be," he said.

"Where are her belongings?" asked the Girl. "I could use them to help furnish the house, and
it wouldn't appear so strange to you."

The Harvester liked that.

"All the washed things are in those boxes upstairs; also some fine skins I've saved on the
chance of wanting them. Her dishes are in the bottom of the china closet there; she was mighty
proud of them. The furniture and carpets were so old and abused I burned them. I'll go bring
a wrap."

He took the candle and climbed the stairs, soon returning with a little white wool shawl and
a big pink coverlet.

"Got this for her Christmas one time," he said. "She'd never had a white one and she thought
it was pretty."

He folded it around the Girl's shoulders and picked up the coverlet.

"You're never going to take that to the woods!" she cried.

"Why not?"

She took it in her hands to find a corner.

"Just as I thought! It's a genuine Peter Hartman! It's one of the things that money can't buy,
or, rather, one that takes a mint of money to own. They are heirlooms. They are not manufactured
any more. At the art store where I worked they'd give you fifty dollars for that. It is not
faded or worn a particle. It would be lovely in my room; you mustn't take a treasure like that
out of doors."

"Ruth, are you in earnest?" demanded the Harvester. "I believe there are six of them upstairs."

"Plutocrat!" cried the Girl. "What colours?"

"More of this pinkish red, blue, and pale green."

"Famous! May I have them to help furnish with to-morrow?"

"Certainly! Anything you can find, any way on earth you want it, only in my room. That is taboo,
as I told you. What am I going to take to-night?"

"Isn't the rug you had in the woods in the wagon yet? Use that!"

"Of course! The very thing! Bel, proceed!"

"Are you going to leave the house like this?"

"Why not?"

"Suppose some one breaks in!"

"Nothing worth carrying away, except what you have on. No one to get in. There is a big swamp
back of our woods, marsh in front, we're up here where we can see the drive and bridge. There
is nothing possible from any direction. Never locked the cabin in my life, except your room,
and that was because it was sacred, not that there was any danger. Clear the way, Bel!"

"Clear it of what?"

"Katydids, hoptoads, and other carnivorous animals."

"Now you are making fun of me! Clear it of what?"

"A coon that might go shuffling across, an opossum, or a snake going to the lake. Now are you
frightened so that you will not go?"

"No. The path is broad and white and surely you and Bel can take care of me."

"If you will trust us we can."

"Well, I am trusting you."

"You are indeed," said the Harvester. "Now see if you think this is pretty."

He indicated the hill sloping toward the lake. The path wound among massive trees, between
whose branches patches of moonlight filtered. Around the lake shore and climbing the hill were
thickets of bushes. The water lay shining in the light, a gentle wind ruffled the surface in
undulant waves, and on the opposite bank arose the line of big trees. Under a giant oak widely
branching, on the top of the hill, the Harvester spread the rug and held one end of it against
the tree trunk to protect the Girl's dress. Then he sat a little distance away and began to
talk. He mingled some sense with a quantity of nonsense, and appreciated every hint of a laugh
he heard. The day had been no amusing matter for a girl absolutely alone among strange people
and scenes. Anything more foreign to her previous environment or expectations he could not
imagine. So he talked to prevent her from thinking, and worked for a laugh as he laboured for
bread.

"Now we must go," he said at last. "If there is the malaria I strongly suspect in your system,
this night air is none too good for you. I only wanted you to see the lake the first night
in your new home, and if it won't shock you, I brought you here because this is my holy of
holies. Can you guess why I wanted you to come, Ruth?"

"If I wasn't so stupid with alternate burning and chills, and so deadened to every proper sensibility,
I suppose I could," she answered, "but I'm not brilliant. I don't know, unless it is because
you knew it would be the loveliest place I ever saw. Surely there is no other spot in the world
quite so beautiful."

"Then would it seem strange to you," asked the Harvester going to the Girl and gently putting
his arms around her, "would it seem strange to you, that a woman who once homed here and thought
it the prettiest place on earth, chose to remain for her eternal sleep, rather than to rest
in a distant city of stranger dead?"

He felt the Girl tremble against him.

"Where is she?"

"Very close," said the Harvester. "Under this oak. She used to say that she had a speaking
acquaintance with every tree on our land, and of them all she loved this big one the best.
She liked to come here in winter, and feel the sting of the wind sweeping across the lake,
and in summer this was her place to read and to think. So when she slept the unwaking sleep,
Ruth, I came here and made her bed with my own hands, and then carried her to it, covered her,
and she sleeps well. I never have regretted her going. Life did not bring her joy. She was
very tired. She used to say that after her soul had fled, if I would lay her here, perhaps
the big roots would reach down and find her, and from her frail frame gather slight nourishment
and then her body would live again in talking leaves that would shelter me in summer and whisper
her love in winter. Of all Medicine Woods this is the dearest spot to me. Can you love it too,
Ruth?"

"Oh I can!" cried the Girl; "I do now! Just to see the place and hear that is enough. I wish,
oh to my soul I wish----"

"You wish what?" whispered the Harvester gently.

"I dare not! I was wild to think of it. I would be ungrateful to ask it."

"You would be ungracious if you didn't ask anything that would give me the joy of pleasing
you. How long is it going to require for you to learn, Ruth, that to make up for some of the
difficulties life has brought you would give me more happiness than anything else could? Tell
me now."

"No!"

He gathered her closer.

"Ruth, there is no reason why you should be actively unkind to me. What is it you wish?"

She struggled from his arms and stood alone in white moonlight, staring across the lake, along
the shore, deep into the perfumed forest, and then at the mound she now could distinguish under
the giant tree. Suddenly she went to him and with both shaking hands gripped his arm.

"My mother!" she panted. "Oh she was a beautiful woman, delicately reared, and her heart was
crushed and broken. By the inch she went to a dreadful end I could not avert or allay, and
in poverty and grime I fought for a way to save her body from further horror, and it's all
so dreadful I thought all feeling in me was dried and still, but I am not quite calloused yet.
I suffer it over with every breath. It is never entirely out of my mind. Oh Man, if only you
would lift her from the horrible place she lies, where briers run riot and cattle trample and
the unmerciful sun beats! Oh if only you'd lift her from it, and bring her here! I believe
it would take away some of the horror, the shame, and the heartache. I believe I could go to
sleep without hearing the voice of her suffering, if I knew she was lying on this hill, under
your beautiful tree, close the dear mother you love. Oh Man, would you----?"

The Harvester crushed the Girl in his arms and shuddering sobs shook his big frame, and choked
his voice.

"Ruth, for God's sake, be quiet!" he cried. "Why I'd be glad to! I'll go anywhere you tell
me, and bring her, and she shall rest where the lake murmurs, the trees shelter, the winds
sing, and earth knows the sun only in long rays of gold light."

She stared at him with strained face.

"You----you wouldn't!" she breathed.

"Ruth, child," said the Harvester, "I tell you I'd be happy. Look at my side of this! I'm in
search of bands to bind you to me and to this place. Could you tell me a stronger than to have
the mother you idolized lie here for her long sleep? Why Girl, you can't know the deep and
abiding joy it would give me to bring her. I'd feel I had you almost secure. Where is she Ruth?"

"In that old unkept cemetery south of Onabasha, where it costs no money to lay away your loved
ones."

"Close here! Why I'll go to-morrow! I supposed she was in the city."

She straightened and drew away from him.

"How could I? I had nothing. I could not have paid even her fare and brought her here in the
cheapest box the decency of man would allow him to make if her doctor had not given me the
money I owe. Now do you understand why I must earn and pay it myself? Save for him, it was
charity or her delicate body to horrors. Money never can repay him."

"Ruth, the day you came to Onabasha was she with you?"

"In the express car," said the Girl.

"Where did you go when you left the train shed?"

"Straight to the baggage room, where Uncle Henry was waiting. Men brought and put her in his
wagon, and he drove with me to the place and other men lowered her, and that was all."

"You poor Girl!" cried the Harvester. "This time to-morrow night she shall sleep in luxury
under this oak, so help me God! Ruth, can you spare me? May I go at once? I can't rest, myself."

"You will?" cried the Girl. "You will?"

She was laughing in the moonlight. "Oh Man, I can't ever, ever tell you!"

"Don't try," said the Harvester. "Call it settled. I will start early in the morning. I know
that little cemetery. The man whose land it is on can point me the spot. She is probably the
last one laid there. Come now, Ruth. Go to the room I made for you, and sleep deeply and in
peace. Will you try to rest?"

"Oh David!" she exulted. "Only think! Here where it's clean and cool; beside the lake, where
leaves fall gently and I can come and sit close to her and bring flowers; and she never will
be alone, for your dear mother is here. Oh David!"

"It is better. I can't thank you enough for thinking of it. Come now, let me help you."

He half carried her down the hill. Then he made the cabin a glamour of light by putting candles
in the sticks he had carved and placing them everywhere.

"There is a lighting plant in the basement," he said, "but I had not expected to use it until
winter, and I have no acetylene. Candles were our grandmothers' lights and they are the best
anyway. Go bathe your face, Ruth, and wash away all trace of tears. Put on the pink powder,
and in a few weeks you will have colour to outdo the wildest rose. You must be as gay as you
can the remainder of this night."

"I will!" cried the Girl. "I will! Oh I didn't know a thing on earth could make me happy! I
didn't know I really could be glad. Oh if the ice in my heart would melt, and the wall break
down, and the girlhood I've never known would come yet! Oh David, if it would!"

"Before the Lord it shall!" vowed the Harvester. "It shall come with the fulness of joy right
here in Medicine Woods. Think it! Believe it! Keep it before you! Work for it! Happiness is
worth while! All of us have a right to it! It shall be yours and soon."

"I will try! I will!" promised the Girl. "I'll go right now and I'll put on the blessed pink
powder so thickly you'll never know what is under it, and soon it won't be needed at all."

She was laughing as she left the room. The Harvester restlessly walked the floor a few minutes
and then sat with a notebook and began entering stems.

When the Girl returned, he brought the pillow from her bed, folded the coverlet, and she lay
on them in the big swing. He covered her with the white shawl, and while Singing Water sang
its loudest, katydids exulted over the delightful act of their ancestor, and a million gauze-winged
creatures of night hummed against the screen, in a voice soft and low he told her in a steady
stream, as he swayed her back and forth, what each sound of the night was, and how and why
it was made all the way from the rumbling buzz of the June bug to the screech of the owl and
the splash of the bass in the lake. All of it, as it appealed to him, was the story of steady
evolution, the natural processes of reproduction, the joy of life and its battles, and the
conquest of the strong in nature. At his hands every sound was stripped of terror. The leaping
bass was exulting in life, the screeching owl was telling its mate it had found a fat mouse
for the children, the nighthawk was courting, the big bull frogs booming around the lake were
serenading the moon. There was not a thing to fear or a voice left with an unsympathetic note
in it. She was half asleep when at last he helped her to her room, set a pitcher of frosty,
clinking drink on her table, locked her door and window screens inside, spread Belshazzar's
blanket on her porch, and set his door wide open, that he might hear if she called, and then
said good night and went back to his memorandum book.

"No bad beginning," he muttered softly, "no bad beginning, but I'd almost give my right hand
if she hadn't forgotten----"

In her room the exhausted Girl slipped the pins from her hair and sank on the low chair before
the dressing-table. She picked up the shining, silver backed brush and stared at the monogram,
R. F. L, entwined on it.

"My soul!" she exclaimed. "WAS HE SO SURE AS THAT? Was there ever any other man like him?"

She dropped the brush and with tired hands pushed back the heavy braids. Then she arose and
going to the chest of drawers began lifting lids to find a night robe. As she searched the
boxes she found every dainty, pretty undergarment a girl ever used and at last the robes. She
shook out a long white one, slipped into it, and walked to the bed. That stood as he had arranged
it, white, clean, and dainty.

"Everything for me!" she said softly. "Everything for me! Shall there be nothing for him? Oh
he makes it easy, easy!"

She stepped to the closet, picked down a lavender silk kimona and drawing it over her gown
she gathered it around her and opening the bathroom door, she stepped into a little hall leading
to the dining-room. As she entered the living-room the Harvester bent over his book. Her step
was very close when he heard it and turned his head. In an instant she touched his shoulders.
The Harvester dropped the pencil, and palm downward laid his hands on the table, his promise
strong in his heart. The Girl slid a shaking palm under his chin, leaned his head against her
breast, and dropped a sweet, tear-wet face on his. With all the strength of her frail arms
she gripped him a second, and then gave the kiss, into which she tried to put all she could
find no words to express.

CHAPTER XIV. SNOWY WINGS

The Harvester sat at the table in deep thoughts until the lights in the Girl's room were darkened
and everything was quiet. Then he locked the screens inside and went into the night. The moon
flooded all the hillside, until coarse print could have been read with keen eyes in its light.
A restlessness, born of exultation he could not allay or control, was on him. She had not forgotten!
After this, the dream would be effaced by reality. It was the beginning. He scarcely had dared
hope for so much. Surely it presaged the love with which she some day would come to him and
crown his life. He walked softly up and down the drive, passing her windows, unable to think
of sleep. Over and over he dwelt on the incidents of the day, so inevitably he came to his promise.

"Merciful Heaven!" he muttered. "How can such things happen? The poor, overworked, tired, suffering
girl. It will give her some comfort. She will feel better. It has to be done. I believe I will
do the worst part of it while she sleeps."

He went to the cabin, crept very close to one of her windows and listened intently. Surely
no mortal awake could lie motionless so long. She must be sleeping. He patted Belshazzar, whispered,
"Watch, boy, watch for your life!" and then crossed to the dry-house. Beside it he found a
big roll of coffee sacks that he used in collecting roots, and going to the barn, he took a
spade and mattock. Then he climbed the hill to the oak; in the white moonlight laid off his
measurements and began work. His heart was very tender as he lifted the earth, and threw it
into the tops of the big bags he had propped open.

"I'll line it with a couple of sheets and finish the edge with pond lilies and ferns," he planned,
"and I'll drag this earth from sight, and cover it with brush until I need it."

Sometimes he paused in his work to rest a few minutes and then he stood and glanced around
him. Several times he went down the hill and slipped close to a window, but he could not hear
a sound. When his work was finished, he stood before the oak, scraping clinging earth from
the mattock with which he had cut roots he had been compelled to remove. He was tired now and
he thought he would go to his room and sleep until daybreak. As he turned the implement he
remembered how through it he had found her, and now he was using it in her service. He smiled
as he worked, and half listened to the steady roll of sound encompassing him. A cool breath
swept from the lake and he wondered if it found her wet, hot cheek. A wild duck in the rushes
below gave an alarm signal, and it ran in subdued voice, note by note, along the shore. The
Harvester gripped the mattock and stood motionless. Wild things had taught him so many lessons
he heeded their warnings instinctively. Perhaps it was a mink or muskrat approaching the rushes.
Listening intently, he heard a stealthy step coming up the path behind him.

The Harvester waited. He soundlessly moved around the trunk of the big tree. An instant more
the night prowler stopped squarely at the head of the open grave, and jumped back with an oath.
He stood tense a second, then advanced, scratched a match and dropped it into the depths of
the opening. That instant the Harvester recognized Henry Jameson, and with a spring landed
between the man's shoulders and sent him, face down, headlong into the grave. He snatched one
of the sacks of earth, and tipping it, gripped the bottom and emptied the contents on the head
and shoulders of the prostrate man. Then he dropped on him and feeling across his back took
an ugly, big revolver from a pocket. He swung to the surface and waited until Henry Jameson
crawled from under the weight of earth and began to rise; then, at each attempt, he knocked
him down. At last he caught the exhausted man by the collar and dragged him to the path, where
he dropped him and stood gloating.

"So!" he said; "It's you! Coming to execute your threat, are you? What's the matter with my
finishing you, loading your carcass with a few stones into this sack, and dropping you in the
deepest part of the lake."

There was no reply.

"Ain't you a little hasty?" asked the Harvester. "Isn't it rather cold blooded to come sneaking
when you thought I'd be asleep? Don't you think it would be low down to kill a man on his wedding
day?"

Henry Jameson arose cautiously and faced the Harvester.

"Who have you killed?" he panted.

"No one," answered the Harvester. "This is for the victim of a member of your family, but I
never dreamed I'd have the joy of planting any of you in it first, even temporarily. Did you
rest well? What I should have done was to fill in, tread down, and leave you at the bottom."

Jameson retreated a few steps. The Harvester laughed and advanced the same distance.

"Now then," he said, "explain what you are doing on my premises, a few hours after your threat,
and armed with another revolver before I could return the one I took from you this afternoon.
You must grow them on bushes at your place, they seem so numerous. Speak up! What are you doing
here?"

There was no answer.

"There are three things it might be," mused the Harvester. "You might think to harm me, but
you're watched on that score and I don't believe you'd enjoy the result sure to follow. You
might contemplate trying to steal Ruth's money again, but we'll pass that up. You might want
to go through my woods to inform yourself as to what I have of value there. But, in all prob-ability,
you are after me. Well, here I am. Go ahead! Do what you came to!"

The Harvester stepped toward the lake bank and Jameson, turning to watch him, exposed a face
ghastly through its grime.

"Look here!" cried the Harvester, sickening. "We will end this right now. I was rather busy
this afternoon, but I wasn't too hurried to take that little weapon of yours to the chief of
police and tell him where and how I got it and what occurred. He was to return it to you to-morrow
with his ultimatum. When I have added the history of to-night, reinforced by another gun, he
will understand your intentions and know where you belong. You should be confined, but because
your name is the same as the Girl's, and there is of your blood in her veins, I'll give you
one more chance. I'll let you go this time, but I'll report you, and deliver this implement
to be added to your collection at headquarters. And I tell you, and I'll tell them, that if
ever I find you on my premises again, I'll finish you on sight. Is that clear?"

Jameson nodded.

"What I should do is to plump you squarely into confinement, as I could easily enough, but
that's not my way. I am going to let you off, but you go knowing the law. One thing more: Don't
leave with any distorted ideas in your head. I saw Ruth the day she stepped from the cars in
Onabasha and I loved her. I wanted to court and marry her, as any man would the girl he loves,
but you spoiled that with your woman killing brutality. So I married her in Onabasha this afternoon.
You can see the records at the county clerk's office and interview the minister who performed
the ceremony, if you doubt me. Ruth is in her room, comfortable as I can make her, asleep and
unafraid, thank God! This grave is for her mother. The Girl wants her lifted from the horrible
place you put her, and laid where it is sheltered and pleasant. Now, I'll see you off my land.
Hurry yourself!"

With the Harvester following, Henry Jameson went back over the path he had come, until he reached
and mounted the horse he had ridden. As the Harvester watched him, Jameson turned in the saddle
and spoke for the second time.

"What will you give me in cold cash to tell you who she is, and where her mother's people are?"

The Harvester leaped for the bridle and missed. Jameson bent over the horse and lashed it to
a run. Half way to the oak the Harvester remembered the revolver, but being unaccustomed to
weapons, he had forgotten it when he needed it most. He replaced the earth in the sack and
dragged it away, then plunged into the lake, and afterward went to bed, where he slept soundly
until dawn. First, he slipped into the living-room and wrote a note to the Girl. Then he fed
Belshazzar and ate a hearty breakfast. He stationed the dog at her door, gave him the note,
and went to the oak. There he arranged everything neatly and as he desired, and then hitching
Betsy he quietly guided her down the drive and over the road to Onabasha. He went to an undertaking
establishment, made all his arrangements, and then called up and talked with the minister who
had performed the marriage ceremony the previous day.

The sun shining in her face awoke Ruth and she lay revelling in the light. "Maybe it will colour
me faster than the powder," she thought. "How peculiar for him to say what he did! I always
thought men detested it. But he is not like any one else." She lay looking around the beautiful
room and wondering where the Harvester was. She could not hear him. Then, slowly and painfully,
she dragged her aching limbs from the bed and went to the door. The dog was gone from the porch
and she could not see the man at the stable. She selected a frock and putting it on opened
the door. Belshazzar arose and offered this letter:

DEAR RUTH:

I have gone to keep my promise. You are locked in with Bel. Please obey me and do not step
outside the door until four o'clock. Then put on a pretty white dress, and with the dog, come
to the bridge to meet me. I hope you will not suffer and fret. Put away your clothing, arrange
the rooms to keep busy, or better yet, lie in the swing and rest. There is food in the ice
chest, pantry, and cellar. Forgive me for leaving you to-day, but I thought you would feel
easier to have this over. I am so glad to bring your mother here. I hope it will make you happy
enough to meet us with a smile. Do not forget the pink box until the reality comes.

With love,

DAVID.

The Girl went to the kitchen and found food. She offered to share with Belshazzar, but she
could see from his indifference he was not hungry. Then she returned to the room flooded with
light, and filled with treasures, and tried to decide how she would arrange her clothing. She
spent hours opening boxes and putting dainty, pretty garments in the drawers, hanging the dresses,
and placing the toilet articles. Often she wearily dropped to the chairs and couches, or gazed
from door and windows at the pictures they framed. "I wonder why he doesn't want me to go outside,"
she thought. "I wouldn't be afraid in the least, with Bel. I'd just love to go across to that
wonderful little river of Singing Water and sit in the shade; but I won't open the door until
four o'clock, just as he wrote."

When she thought of where he had gone, and why, the swift tears filled her eyes, but she forced
them back and resolutely went to investigate the dining-room. Then for two hours she was a
home builder, with a touch of that homing instinct found in the heart of every good woman.
First, she looked where the Harvester had said the dishes were, and suddenly sat on the floor
exulting. There was a quantity of old chipped and cracked white ware and some gorgeous baking
powder prizes; but there were also big blue, green, and pink bowls, several large lustre plates,
and a complete tea set without chip or blemish, two beautiful pitchers, and a number of willow
pieces. She set the green bowl on the dining table, the blue on the living-room, and took the
pink herself, while a beautiful yellow one she placed in the dining-room window seat.

"Oh, if I only dared fill them with those lovely flowers!" She stood in the window and gazed
longingly toward the lake. "I know what colour I'd like to put in each of them," she said,
"but I promised not to touch anything, and the ones I want most I never saw before, and I'm
not to go out anyway. I can't see the sense in that, when I'm not at all afraid, but if he
does this wonderful thing for me I must do what he asks. Oh mother, mother! Are you really
coming to this beautiful place and to rest at last?"

She sank to the window seat and lay trembling, but she bravely restrained the tears. After
a time she remembered the upstairs and went to see the coverlets. She found a half dozen beautiful
ones, and smiled as she examined the stiffly conventionalized birds facing each other in the
border designs, and in one corner of each blanket she read, woven in the cloth----

     Peter and John
        Hartman
        Wooster
         Ohio
         1837

She took a blue and a green one, several fine skins from the fur box the Harvester had told
her about, and went downstairs. It required all her strength to push the heavy tables before
the fireplaces. She spread papers on them to stand on, and tacked a skin above each mantel.
She set all of the candlesticks, except those she wanted to use, in the lower part of an empty
bookcase. A pair of black walnut she placed on the living-room mantel, together with a big
blue plate, a yellow one, and an old brass candlestick. She admired the effect very much. She
spread the blue coverlet on the couch, and arranged the blue bowl and some books on the table.
Here and there she hung a skin across a chair back, or spread it in a wide window seat. Having
exhausted all her resources, she returned to the dining-room, spread a skin before the hearth
and in each window seat, set a pink and green lustre plate on the mantel, and a pair of oak
candlesticks, and arranged the lustre tea set on the side table. The pink coverlet she took
for herself, and after resting a time she was surprised on going back to the rooms to see how
homelike they appeared.

At three o'clock she dressed and at almost four unlocked the screen, called Belshazzar to her
side, and slowly went down the drive to the bridge. She had used the pink powder, put on a
beautiful white dress, carefully arranged her hair, and she wore the pearl ornament. Once her
fingers strayed to the pendant and she said softly, "I think both he and mother would like
me to wear it."

At the foot of the hill she stopped at a bench and sat in the shade waiting. Belshazzar stretched
beside her, and gazed at her with questioning, friendly dog eyes. The Girl looked from Singing
Water to the lake, and up the hill to make sure it was real. She tried to quiet her quivering
muscles and nerves. He had asked her to meet him with a smile. How could she? He could not
have understood what it meant when he made the request. There never would be any way to make
him realize; indeed, why should he? The smile must be ready. He had loved his mother deeply,
and yet he had said he did not grieve to lay her to rest. Earth had not been kind. Then why
should she sorrow for her mother? Again life had been not only unkind, but bitterly cruel.

Belshazzar arose and watched down the drive. The Girl looked also. Through the gate and up
the levee came a strange procession. First walked the Harvester alone, with bared head, and
he carried an arm load of white lilies. A carriage containing a man and several women followed.
Then came a white hearse with snowy plumes, and behind that another carriage filled with people,
and Betsy followed drawing men in the spring wagon. The Girl arose and as she stepped to the
drive she swayed uncertainly an instant.

"Gracious Heaven!" she gasped. "He is bringing her in white, and with flowers and song!"

Then she lifted her head, and with a smile on her lips she went to meet him. As she reached
his side, he tenderly put an arm around her, and came on steadily.

"Courage Girl!" he whispered. "Be as brave as she was!"

Around the driveway and up the hill he half carried her, to a seat he had placed under the
oak. Before her lay the white-lined grave, and the Harvester arranged his lilies around it.
The teams stopped at the barn and men came up the hill bearing a white burden. Behind them
followed the minister who yesterday had performed their marriage ceremony, and after him a
choir of trained singers softly chanting:

     "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord,
     For they shall cease from their labours."

"But David," panted the Girl, "It was mean and poor. That is not she!"

"Sush!" said the Harvester. "It is your mother. The location was high and dry, and it has been
only a short time. We wrapped her in white silk, laid her on a soft cushion and pillow, and
housed her securely. She can sleep well now, Ruth. Listen!"

Covered with white lilies, slowly the casket sank into earth. At its head stood the minister
and as it began to disappear, the white doves, frightened by the strange conveyances at the
stable, came circling above. The minister looked up. He lifted a clear tenor, and softly and
purely he sang, while at a wave of his hand the choir joined him:

     "Oh, come angel band!  Oh, come, and around me stand!
     Oh, bear me away on your snowy wings to my immortal home!"

He uttered a low benediction, and singing, the people turned and went downhill. The Harvester
gathered the Girl in his arms and carried her to the lake. He laid her in his boat and taking
the oars sent it along the bank in the shade, and through cool, green places.

"Now cry all you choose!" he said.

The overstrained Girl covered her face and sobbed wildly. After a time he began to talk to
her gently, and before she realized it, she was listening.

"Death has been kinder to her than life, Ruth," he said. "She is lying as you saw her last,
I think. We lifted her very tenderly, wrapped her carefully, and brought her gently as we could.
Now they shall rest together, those little mothers of ours, to whom men were not kind; and
in the long sleep we must forget, as they have forgotten, and forgive, as no doubt they have
forgiven. Don't you want to take some lilies to them before we go to the cabin? Right there
on your left are unusually large ones."

The Girl sat up, dried her eyes and gathered the white flowers. When the last vehicle crossed
the bridge, the Harvester tied the boat and helped her up the hill. The old oak stretched its
wide arms above two little mounds, both moss covered and scattered with flowers. The Girl added
her store and then went to the Harvester, and sank at his feet.

"Ruth, you shall not!" cried the man. "I simply will not have that. Come now, I will bring
you back this evening."

He helped her to the veranda and laid her in the swing. He sat beside her while she rested,
and then they went into the cabin for supper. Soon he had her telling what she had found, and
he was making notes of what was yet required to transform the cabin into a home. The Harvester
left it to her to decide whether he should roof the bridge the next day or make a trip for
furnishings. She said he had better buy what they needed and then she could make the cabin
homelike while he worked on the bridge.

CHAPTER XV. THE HARVESTER INTERPRETS LIFE

They went through the rooms together, and the Girl suggested the furnishings she thought necessary,
while the Harvester wrote the list. The following morning he was eager to have her company,
but she was very tired and begged to be allowed to wait in the swing, so again he drove away
and left her with Belshazzar on guard. When he had gone, she went through the cabin arranging
the furniture the best she could, then dressed and went to the swinging couch. It was so wide
and heavy a light wind rocked it gently, and from it she faced the fern and lily carpeted hillside,
the majesty of big trees of a thousand years, and heard the music of Singing Water as it sparkled
diamond-like where the sun rays struck its flow. Across the drive and down the valley to the
brilliant bit of marsh it hurried on its way to Loon Lake.

There were squirrels barking and racing in the big trees and over the ground. They crossed
the sodded space of lawn and came to the top step for nuts, eating them from cunning paws.
They were living life according to the laws of their nature. She knew that their sharp, startling
bark was not to frighten her, but to warn straying intruders of other species of their kindred
from a nest, because the Harvester had told her so. He had said their racing here and there
in wild scramble was a game of tag and she found it most interesting to observe.

Birds of brilliant colour flashed everywhere, singing in wild joy, and tilted on the rising
hedge before her, hunting berries and seeds. Their bubbling, spontaneous song was an instinctive
outpouring of their joy over mating time, nests, young, much food, and running water. Their
social, inquiring, short cry was to locate a mate, and call her to good feeding. The sharp
wild scream of a note was when a hawk passed over, a weasel lurked in the thicket, or a black
snake sunned on the bushes. She remembered these things, and lay listening intently, trying
to interpret every sound as the Harvester did.

Birds of wide wing hung as if nailed to the sky, or wheeled and sailed in grandeur. They were
searching the landscape below to locate a hare or snake in the waving grass or carrion in the
fields. The wonderful exhibitions of wing power were their expression of exultation in life,
just as the song sparrow threatened to rupture his throat as he swung on the hedge, and the
red bird somewhere in the thicket whistled so forcefully it sounded as if the notes might hurt him.

On the lake bass splashed in a game with each other. Grebes chattered, because they were very
social. Ducks dived and gobbled for roots and worms of the lake shore, and congratulated each
other when they were lucky.

Killdeer cried for slaughter, in plaintive tones, as their white breasts gleamed silver-like
across the sky. They insisted on the death of their ancient enemies, because the deer had trampled
nests around the shore, roiled the water, spoiled the food hunting, and had been wholly unmindful
of the laws of feathered folk from the beginning.

Behind the barn imperial cocks crowed challenges of defiance to each other and all the world,
because they once had worn royal turbans on their heads, and ruled the forests, even the elephants
and lions. Happy hens cackled when they deposited an egg, and wandered through their park singing
the spring egg song unceasingly.

Upon the barn Ajax spread and exulted in glittering plumage, and screamed viciously. He was
sending a wireless plea to the forests of Ceylon for a gray mate to come and share the ridge
pole with him, and help him wage red war on the sickening love making of the white doves he hated.

Everything was beautiful, some of it was amusing, all instructive, and intensely interesting.
The Girl wanted to know about the brown, yellow, and black butterflies sailing from flower
to flower. She watched big black and gold bees come from the forest for pollen and listened
to their monotonous bumbling. Her first humming bird poised in air, and sipped nectar before
her astonished eyes. It was marvellous, but more wonderful to the Girl than anything she saw
or heard was the fact that because of the Harvester's teachings she now could trace through
all of it the ordained processes of the evolution of life. Everything was right in its way,
all necessary to human welfare, and so there was nothing to fear, but marvels to learn and
pictures to appreciate. She would have taken Belshazzar and gone out, but the Harvester had
exacted a promise that she would not. The fact was, he could see that she was coming gradually
to a sane and natural view of life and living things, and he did not want some sound or creature
to frighten her, and spoil what he had accomplished. So she swayed in the swing and watched,
and tried to interpret sights and sounds as he did.

Before an hour she realized that she was coming speedily into sympathy with the wild life around
her; for, instead of shivering and shrinking at unaccustomed sounds, she was listening especially
for them, and trying to arrive at a sane version. Instead of the senseless roar of commerce,
manufacture, and life of a city, she was beginning to appreciate sounds that varied and carried
the Song of Life in unceasing measure and absorbing meaning, while she was more than thankful
for the fresh, pure air, and the blessed, God-given light. It seemed to the Girl that there
was enough sunshine at Medicine Woods to furnish rays of gold for the whole world.

"Bel," she said to the dog standing beside her, "it's a shame to separate you from the Medicine
Man and pen you here with me. It's a wonder you don't bite off my head and run away to find
him. He's gone to bring more things to make life beautiful. I wanted to go with him, but oh
Bel, there's something dreadfully wrong with me. I was afraid I'd fall on the streets and frighten
and shame him. I'm so weak, I scarcely can walk straight across one of these big, cool rooms
that he has built for me. He can make everything beautiful, Bel, a home, rooms, clothing, grounds,
and life----above everything else he can make life beautiful. He's so splendid and wonderful,
with his wide understanding and sane interpretation and God-like sympathy and patience. Why
Belshazzar, he can do the greatest thing in all the world! He can make you forget that the
grave annihilates your dear ones by hideous processes, and set you to thinking instead that
they come back to you in whispering leaves and flower perfumes. If I didn't owe him so much
that I ought to pay, if this wasn't so alluringly beautiful, I'd like to go to the oak and
lie beside those dear women resting there, and give my tired body to furnish sap for strength
and leaves for music. He can take its bitterest sting----from death, Bel----and that's the
most wonderful thing----in life, Bel----"

Her voice became silent, her eyes closed; the dog stretched himself beside her on guard, and
it was so the Harvester found them when he drove home from the city. He heaped his load in
the dining-room, stabled Betsy, carried the things he had brought where he thought they belonged,
and prepared food. When she awakened she came to him.

"How is it going, Girl?" asked the Harvester.

"I can't tell you how lovely it has been!"

"Do you really mean that your heart is warming a little to things here?"

"Indeed I do! I can't tell you what a morning I've had. There have been such myriad things
to see and hear. Oh, Harvester, can you ever teach me what all of it means?"

"I can right now," said the Harvester promptly. "It means two things, so simple any little
child can understand----the love of God and the evolution of life. I am not precisely clear
as to what I mean when I say God. I don't know whether it is spirit, matter, or force; it is
that big thing that brings forth worlds, establishes their orbits, and gives us heat, light,
food, and water. To me, that is God and His love. Just that we are given birth, sheltered,
provisioned, and endowed for our work. Evolution is the natural consequence of this. It is
the plan steadily unfolding. If I were you, I wouldn't bother my head over these questions,
they never have been scientifically explained to the beginning; I doubt if they ever will be,
because they start with the origin of matter and that is too far beyond man for him to penetrate.
Just enjoy to the depths of your soul----that's worship. Be thankful for everything----that's
praising God as the birds praise him. And 'do unto others' that's all there is of love and
religion combined in one fell swoop."

"You should go before the world and tell every one that!"

"No! It isn't my vocation," said the Harvester. "My work is to provide pain-killer. I don't
believe, Ruth, that there is any one on the footstool who is doing a better job along that
line. I am boastfully proud of it----just of sending in the packages that kill fever, refresh
poor blood, and strengthen weak hearts; unadulterated, honest weight, fresh, and scrupulously
clean. My neighbours have a different name for it; I call it a man's work."

"Every one who understands must," said the Girl. "I wish I could help at that. I feel as if
it would do more to wipe out the pain I've suffered and seen her endure than anything else.
Man, when I grow strong enough I want to help you. I believe that I am going to love it here."

"Don't ever suppress your feelings, Ruth!" hastily cried the Harvester. "It will be very bad
for you. You will become wrought up, and 'het up,' as Granny Moreland says, and it will make
you very ill. When we drive the fever from your blood, the ache from your bones, the poison
of wrong conditions from your soul, and good, healthy, red corpuscles begin pumping through
your little heart like a windmill, you can stake your life you're going to love it here. And
the location and work are not all you're going to care for either, honey. Now just wait! That
was not 'nominated in the bond.' I'm allowed to talk. I never agreed not to SAY things. What
I promised was not to DO them. So as I said, honey, sit at this table, and eat the food I've
cooked; and by that time the furniture van will be here, and the men will unload, and you shall
reign on a throne and tell me where and how."

"Oh if I were only stronger, David!"

"You are!" said the Harvester. "You are much better than you were yesterday. You can talk,
and that's all that's necessary. The rooms are ready for furniture. The men will carry it where
you want it. A decorator is coming to hang the curtains. By night we will be settled; you can
lie in the swing while I read to you a story so wonderful that the wildest fairy tale you ever
heard never touched it."

"What will it be, David?"

"Eat all the red raspberries and cream, bread and butter, and drink all the milk you can. There's
blood, beefsteak, and bones in it. As I was saying, you have come here a stranger to a strange
land. The first thing is for you to understand and love the woods. Before you can do that you
should master the history of one tree; just the same as you must learn to know and love me
before your childlike trust in all mankind returns again. Understand? Well, the fates knew
you were on the way, coming trembling down the brink, Ruth, so they put it into the heart of
a great man to write largely of a wonderful tree, especially for your benefit. After it had
fallen he took it apart, split it in sections, and year by year spread out history for all
the world to read. It made a classic story filled with unsurpassed wonders. It was a pine of
a thousand years, close the age of our mother tree, Ruth, and when we have learned from Enos
Mills how to wrest secrets from the hearts of centuries, we will climb the hill and measure
our oak, and then I will estimate, and you will write, and we will make a record for our tree."

"Oh, I'd like that!"

"So would I," said the Harvester. "And a million other things I can think of that we can learn
together. It won't require long for me to teach you all I know, and by that time your hand
will be clasped in mine, and our 'hearts will beat as one,' and you will give me a kiss every
night and morning, and a few during the day for interest, and we will go on in life together
and learn songs, miracles, and wonders until the old oak calls us. Then we will ascend the
hill gladly and lie down and offer up our bodies, and our children will lay flowers over our
hearts, and gather the herbs and paint the pictures? Amen. I hear a van on the bridge. Just
you go to your room and lie down until I get things unloaded and where they belong. Then you
and the decorator can make us home-like, and to-morrow we will begin to live. Won't that be
great, Ruth?"

"With you, yes, I think it will."

"That will do for this time," said the Harvester, as he opened the door to her room. "Lie and
rest until I say ready."

As he went to meet the men, she could hear him singing lustily, "Praise God from whom all blessings
flow."

"What a child he is!" she said. "And what a man!"

For an hour heavy feet sounded through the cabin carrying furniture to different rooms. Then
with a floor brush in one hand, and a polishing cloth in the other, the Harvester tapped at
her door and helped the Girl upstairs. He had divided the space into three large, square sleeping
chambers. In each he had set up a white iron bed, a dressing table, and wash stand, and placed
two straight-backed and one rocking chair, all white. The walls were tinted lightly with green
added to the plaster. There was a mattress and a stack of bedding on each bed, and a large
rug and several small ones on the floors. He led her to the rocking chair in the middle room,
where she could see through the open doors of the other two.

"Now," said the Harvester, "I didn't know whether the room with two windows toward the lake
and one on the marsh, or two facing the woods and one front, was the guest chamber. It seemed
about an even throw whether a visitor would prefer woods or water, so I made them both guest
chambers, and got things alike for them. Now if we are entertaining two, one can't feel more
highly honoured than the other. Was that a scheme?"

"Fine!" said the Girl. "I don't see how it could be surpassed."

"'Be sure you are right, then go ahead,'" quoted the Harvester. "Now I'll make the beds and
Mr. Rogers can hang the curtains. Is white correct for sleeping rooms? Won't that wash best
and always be fresh?"

"It will," said the Girl. "White wash curtains are much the nicest."

"Make them short Mr. Rogers; keep them off the floor," advised the Harvester. "And simple----don't
arrange any thing elaborate that will tire a woman to keep in order. Whack them off the right
length and pin them to the poles."

"How about that, Mrs. Langston?" asked the decorator.

"I am quite sure that is the very best thing to do," said the Girl; and the curtains were hung
while the mattress was placed.

"Now about this?" inquired the Harvester. "Do I put on sheets and fix these beds ready to use?"

"I would not," said the Girl. "I would spread the pad and the counterpane and lay the sheets
and pillows in the closet until they are wanted. They can be sunned and the bed made delightfully
fresh."

"Of course," said the Harvester.

When he had finished, he spread a cover on the dressing table and laid out white toilet articles
and grouped a white wash set with green decorations on the stand. Then he brushed the floor,
spread a big green rug in the middle and small ones before the bed, stand, and table, and coming
out closed the door.

"Guest chamber with lake view is now ready for company," announced the Harvester. "Repeat the
operation on the woods room, finished also. Why do some people make work of things and string
them out eternally and fuss so much? Isn't this simple and easy, Ruth?"

"Yes, if you can afford it," said the Girl.

"Forbear!" cried the Harvester. "We have the goods, the dealer has my check. Excuse me ten
minutes, until I furnish another room."

The laughing Girl could catch glimpses of him busy over beds and dresser, floor and rugs; then
he came where she sat.

"Woods guest chamber ready," he said. "Now we come to the interior apartment, that from its
view might be called the marsh room. Aside from being two windows short, it is exactly similar
to the others. It occurred to me that, in order to make up for the loss of those windows, and
also because I may be compelled to ask some obliging woman to occupy it in case your health
is precarious at any time, and in view of the further fact that if any such woman could be
found, and would kindly and willingly care for us, my gratitude would be inexpressible; on
account of all these things, I got a shade the BEST furnishings for this room."

The Girl stared at him with blank face.

"You see," said the Harvester, "this is a question of ethics. Now what is a guest? A thing
of a day! A person who disturbs your routine and interferes with important concerns. Why should
any one be grateful for company? Why should time and money be lavished on visitors? They come.
You overwork yourself. They go. You are glad of it. You return the visit, because it's the
only way to have back at them; but why pamper them unnecessarily? Now a good housekeeper, that
means more than words can express. Comfort, kindness, sanitary living, care in illness! Here's
to the prospective housekeeper of Medicine Woods! Rogers, hang those ruffled embroidered curtains.
Observe that whereas mere guest beds are plain white, this has a touch of brass. Where guest
rugs are floor coverings, this is a work of art. Where guest brushes are celluloid, these are
enamelled, and the dresser cover is hand embroidered. Let me also call your attention to the
chairs touched with gold, cushioned for ease, and a decorated pitcher and bowl. Watch the bounce
of these springs and the thickness of this mattress and pad, and notice that where guests,
however welcome, get a down cover of sateen, the lady of the house has silkaline. Won't she
prepare us a breakfast after a night in this room?"

"David, are you in earnest?" gasped the Girl.

"Don't these things prove it?" asked the Harvester. "No woman can enter my home, when my necessities
are so great I have to hire her to come, and take the WORST in the house. After my wife, she
gets the best, every time. Whenever I need help, the woman who will come and serve me is what
I'd call the real guest of the house. Friend? Where are your friends when trouble comes? It
always brings a crowd on account of the excitement, and there is noise and racing; but if your
soul is saved alive, it is by a steady, trained hand you pay to help you. Friends come and
go, but a good housekeeper remains and is a business proposition--one that if conducted rightly
for both parties and on a strictly common-sense basis, gives you living comfort. Now that we
have disposed of the guests that go and the one that remains, we will proceed downward and
arrange for ourselves."

"David, did you ever know any one who treated a housekeeper as you say you would?"

"No. And I never knew any one who raised medicinal stuff for a living, but I'm making a gilt-edged
success of it, and I would of a housekeeper, too."

"It doesn't seem----"

"That's the bedrock of all the trouble on the earth," interrupted the Harvester. "We are a
nation and a part of a world that spends our time on 'seeming.' Our whole outer crust is 'seeming.'
When we get beneath the surface and strike the BEING, then we live as we are privileged by
the Almighty. I don't think I give a tinker how anything SEEMS. What concerns me is how it
IS. It doesn't 'seem' possible to you to hire a woman to come into your home and take charge
of its cleanliness and the food you eat--the very foundation of life--and treat her as an honoured
guest, and give her the best comfort you have to offer. The cold room, the old covers, the
bare floor, and the cast off furniture are for her. No wonder, as a rule, she gives what she
gets. She dignifies her labour in the same ratio that you do. Wait until we need a housekeeper,
and then gaze with awe on the one I will raise to your hand."

"I wonder----"

"Don't! It's wearing! Come tell me how to make our living-room less bare than it appears at
present."

They went downstairs together, followed by the decorator, and began work on the room. The Girl
was placed on a couch and made comfortable and then the Harvester looked around.

"That bundle there, Rogers, is the curtains we bought for this room. If you and my wife think
they are not right, we will not hang them."

The decorator opened the package and took out curtains of tan-coloured goods with a border
of blue and brown.

"Those are not expensive," said the Harvester, "but to me a window appears bare with only a
shade, so I thought we'd try these, and when they become soiled we'll burn them and buy some
fresh ones."

"Good idea!" laughed the Girl. "As a house decorator you surpass yourself as a Medicine Man."

"Fix these as you did those upstairs," ordered the Harvester. "We don't want any fol-de-rols.
Put the bottom even with the sill and shear them off at the top."

"No, I am going to arrange these," said the decorator, "you go on with your part."

"All right!" agreed the Harvester. "First, I'll lay the big rug."

He cleared the floor, spread a large rug with a rich brown centre and a wide blue border. Smaller
ones of similar design and colour were placed before each of the doors leading from the room.

"Now for the hearth," said the Harvester, "I got this tan goat skin. Doesn't that look fairly
well?"

It certainly did; and the Girl and the decorator hastened to say so. The Harvester replaced
the table and chairs, and then sat on the couch at the Girl's feet.

"I call this almost finished," he remarked. "All we need now is a bouquet and something on
the walls, and that is serious business. What goes on them usually remains for a long time,
and so it should be selected with care. Ruth, have you a picture of your mother?"

"None since she was my mother. I have some lovely girl photographs."

"Good!" cried the Harvester. "Exactly the thing! I have a picture of my mother when she was
a pretty girl. We will select the best of yours and have them enlarged in those beautiful brown
prints they make in these days, and we'll frame one for each side of the mantel. After that
you can decorate the other walls as you see things you want. Fifteen minutes gone; we are ready
to take up the line of march to the dining-room. Oh I forgot my pillows! Here are a half dozen
tan, brown, and blue for this room. Ruth, you arrange them."

The Girl heaped four on the couch, stood one beside the hearth, and laid another in a big chair.

"Now I don't know what you will think of this," said the Harvester. "I found it in a magazine
at the library. I copied this whole room. The plan was to have the floor, furniture, and casings
of golden oak and the walls pale green. Then it said get yellow curtains bordered with green
and a green rug with yellow figures, so I got them. I had green leather cushions made for the
window seats, and these pillows go on them. Hang the saffron curtains, Rogers, and we will
finish in good shape for dinner by six. By the way, Ruth, when will you select your dishes?
It will take a big set to fill all these shelves and you shall have exactly what you want."

"I can use those you have very well."

"Oh no you can't!" cried the Harvester. "I may live and work in the woods, but I am not so
benighted that I don't own and read the best books and magazines, and subscribe for a few papers.
I patronize the library and see what is in the stores. My money will buy just as much as any
man's, if I do wear khaki trousers. Kindly notice the word. Save in deference to your ladyship
I probably would have said pants. You see how ELITE I can be if I try. And it not only extends
to my wardrobe, to a 'yaller' and green dining-room, but it takes in the 'chany' as well. I
have looked up that, too. You want china, cut glass, silver cutlery, and linen. Ye! Ye! You
needn't think I don't know anything but how to dig in the dirt. I have been studying this especially,
and I know exactly what to get."

"Come here," said the Girl, making a place for him beside her. "Now let me tell you what I
think. We are going to live in the woods, and our home is a log cabin----"

"With acetylene lights, a furnace, baths, and hot and cold water----" interpolated the Harvester.

The Girl and the decorator laughed.

"Anyway," said she, "if you are going to let me have what I would like, I'd prefer a set of
tulip yellow dishes with the Dutch little figures on them. I don't know what they cost, but
certainly they are not so expensive as cut glass and china."

"Is that earnest or is it because you think I am spending too much money?"

"It is what I want. Everything else is different; why should we have dishes like city folk?
I'd dearly love to have the Dutch ones, and a white cloth with a yellow border, glass where
it is necessary, and silver knives, forks, and spoons."

"That would be great, all right!" endorsed the decorator. "And you have got a priceless old
lustre tea set there, and your willow ware is as fine as I ever saw. If I were you, I wouldn't
buy a dish with what you have, except the yellow set."

"Great day!" ejaculated the Harvester. "Will you tell me why my great grandmother's old pink
and green teapot is priceless?"

The Girl explained pink lustre. "That set in the shop I knew in Chicago would sell for from
three to five hundred dollars. Truly it would! I've seen one little pink and green pitcher
like yours bring nine dollars there. And you've not only got the full tea set, but water and
dip pitchers, two bowls, and two bread plates. They are priceless, because the secret of making
them is lost; they take on beauty with age, and they were your great-grandmother's."

The Harvester reached over and energetically shook hands.

"Ruth, I'm so glad you've got them!" he bubbled. "Now elucidate on my willow ware. What is
it? Where is it? Why have I willow ware and am not informed. Who is responsible for this? Did
my ancestors buy better than they knew, or worse? Is willow ware a crime for which I must hide
my head, or is it further riches thrust upon me? I thought I had investigated the subject of
proper dishes quite thoroughly; but I am very certain I saw no mention of lustre or willow.
I thought, in my ignorance, that lustre was a dress, and willow a tree. Have I been deceived?
Why is a blue plate or pitcher willow ware?"

"Bring that platter from the mantel," ordered the Girl, "and I will show you."

The Harvester obeyed and followed the finger that traced the design.

"That's a healthy willow tree!" he commented. "If Loon Lake couldn't go ahead of that it should
be drained. And will you please tell me why this precious platter from which I have eaten much
stewed chicken, fried ham, and in youthful days sopped the gravy----will you tell me why this
relic of my ancestors is called a willow plate, when there are a majority of orange trees so
extremely fruitful they have neglected to grow a leaf? Why is it not an orange plate? Look
at that boat! And in plain sight of it, two pagodas, a summer house, a water-sweep, and a pair
of corpulent swallows; you would have me believe that a couple are eloping in broad daylight."

"Perhaps it's night! And those birds are doves."

"Never!" cried the Harvester. "There is a total absence of shadows. There is no moon. Each
orange tree is conveniently split in halves, so you can see to count the fruit accurately;
the birds are in flight. Only a swallow or a stork can fly in decorations, either by day or
by night. And for any sake look at that elopement! He goes ahead carrying a cane, she comes
behind lugging the baggage, another man with a cane brings up the rear. They are not running
away. They have been married ten years at least. In a proper elopement, they forget there are
such things as jewels and they always carry each other. I've often looked up the statistics
and it's the only authorized version. As I regard this treasure, I grow faint when I remember
with what unnecessary force my father bore down when he carved the ham. I'll bet a cooky he
split those orange trees. Now me----I'll never dare touch knife to it again. I'll always carve
the meat on the broiler, and gently lift it to this platter with a fork. Or am I not to be
allowed to dine from my ancestral treasure again?"

"Not in a green and yellow room," laughed the Girl. "I'll tell you what I think. If I had a
tea table to match the living-room furniture, and it sat beside the hearth, and on it a chafing
dish to cook in, and the willow ware to eat from, we could have little tea parties in there,
when we aren't very hungry or to treat a visitor. It would help make that room 'homey,' and
it's wonderful how they harmonize with the other things."

"How much willow ware have I got to 'bestow' on you?" inquired the Harvester. "Suppose you
show me all of it. A guilty feeling arises in my breast, and I fear me I have committed high
crimes!"

"Oh Man! You didn't break or lose any of those dishes, did you?"

"Show me!" insisted the Harvester.

The Girl arose and going to the cupboard he had designed for her china she opened it, and set
before him a teapot, cream pitcher, two plates, a bowl, a pitcher, the meat platter, and a
sugar bowl. "If there were all of the cups, saucers, and plates, I know where they would bring
five hundred dollars," she said.

"Ruth, are you getting even with me for poking fun at them, or are you in earnest?" asked the
Harvester.

"I mean every word of it."

"You really want a small, black walnut table made especially for those old dishes?"

"Not if you are too busy. I could use it with beautiful effect and much pleasure, and I can't
tell you how proud I'd be of them."

The Harvester's face flushed. "Excuse me," he said rising. "I have now finished furnishing
a house; I will go and take a peep at the engine." He went into the kitchen and hearing the
rattle of dishes the Girl followed. She stepped in just in time to see him hastily slide something
into his pocket. He picked up a half dozen old white plates and saucers and several cups and
started toward the evaporator. He heard her coming.

"Look here, honey," he said turning, "you don't want to see the dry-house just now. I have
terrific heat to do some rapid work. I won't be gone but a few minutes. You better boss the
decorator.

"I'm afraid that wasn't very diplomatic," he muttered. "It savoured a little of being sent
back. But if what she says is right, and she should know if they handle such stuff at that
art store, she will feel considerably better not to see this."

He set his load at the door, drew an old blue saucer from his pocket and made a careful examination.
He pulled some leaves from a bush and pushed a greasy cloth out of the saucer, wiped it the
best he could, and held it to light.

"That is a crime!" he commented. "Saucer from your maternal ancestors' tea set used for a grease
dish. I am afraid I'd better sink it in the lake. She'd feel worse to see it than never to
know. Wish I could clean off the grease! I could do better if it was hot. I can set it on the
engine."

The Harvester placed the saucer on the engine, entered the dry-house, and closed the door.
In the stifling air he began pouring seed from beautiful, big willow plates to the old white ones.

"About the time I have ruined you," he said to a white plate, "some one will pop up and discover
that the art of making you is lost and you are priceless, and I'll have been guilty of another
blunder. Now there are the dishes mother got with baking powder. She thought they were grand.
I know plenty well she prized them more than these blue ones or she wouldn't have saved them
and used these for every day. There they set, all so carefully taken care of, and the Girl
doesn't even look at them. Thank Heaven, there are the four remaining plates all right, anyway!
Now I've got seed in some of the saucers; one is there; where on earth is the last one? And
where, oh unkind fates! are the cups?"

He found more saucers and set them with the plates. As he passed the engine he noticed the
saucer on it was bubbling grease, literally exuding it from the particles of clay.

"Hooray!" cried the Harvester. He took it up, but it was so hot he dropped it. With a deft
sweep he caught it in air, and shoved it on a tray. Then he danced and blew on his burned hand.
Snatching out his handkerchief he rubbed off all the grease, and imagined the saucer was brighter.

"If 'a little is good, more is better,'" quoted the Harvester.

Wadding the handkerchief he returned the saucer to the engine. Then he slipped out, dripping
perspiration, glanced toward the cabin, and ran into the work room. The first object he saw
was a willow cup half full of red paint, stuck and dried as if to remain forever. He took his
knife and tried to whittle it off, but noticing that he was scratching the cup he filled it
with turpentine, set it under a work bench, turned a tin pan over it, and covered it with shavings.
A few steps farther brought one in sight, filled with carpet tacks. He searched everywhere,
but could find no more, so he went to the laboratory. Beside his wash bowl at the door stood
the last willow saucer. He had used it for years as a soap dish. He scraped the contents on
the bench and filled the dish with water. Four cups held medicinal seeds and were in good condition.
He lacked one, although he could not remember of ever having broken it. Gathering his collection,
he returned to the dry-house to see how the saucer was coming on. Again it was bubbling, and
he polished off the grease and set back the dish. It certainly was growing better. He carried
his treasures into the work room, and went to the barn to feed. As he was leaving the stable
he uttered a joyous exclamation and snatched from a window sill a willow cup, gummed and smeared
with harness oil.

"The full set, by hokey!" marvelled the Harvester. "Say, Betsy, the only name for this is luck!
Now if I only can clean them, I'll be ready to make her tea table, whatever that is. My I hope
she will stay away until I get these in better shape!"

He filled the last cup with turpentine, set it with the other under the work bench, stacked
the remaining pieces, polished the saucer he was baking, and went to bring a dish pan and towel.
He drew some water from the pipes of the evaporator, put in the soap, and carried it to the
work room. There he carefully washed and wiped all the pieces, save two cups and one saucer.
He did not know how long it would require to bake the grease from that, but he was sure it
was improving. He thought he could clean the paint cup, but he imagined the harness oil one
would require baking also.

As he stood busily working over the dishes, with light step the Girl came to the door. She
took one long look and understood. She turned and swiftly went back to the cabin, but her shoulders
were shaking. Presently the Harvester came in and explained that after finishing in the dry-house
he had gone to do the feeding. Then he suggested that before it grew dark they should go through
the rooms and see how they appeared, and gather the flowers the Girl wanted. So together they
decided everything was clean, comfortable, and harmonized.

Then they went to the hillside sloping to the lake. For the dining-room, the Girl wanted yellow
water lilies, so the Harvester brought his old boat and gathered enough to fill the green bowl.
For the living-room, she used wild ragged robins in the blue bowl, and on one end of the mantel
set a pitcher of saffron and on the other arrowhead lilies. For her room, she selected big,
blushy mallows that grew all along Singing Water and around the lake.

"Isn't that slightly peculiar?" questioned the Harvester.

"Take a peep," said the Girl, opening her door.

She had spread the pink coverlet on her couch, and when she set the big pink bowl filled with
mallows on the table the effect was exquisite.

"I think perhaps that's a little Frenchy," she said, "and you may have to be educated to it;
but salmon pink and buttercup yellow are colours I love in combination."

She closed the door and went to find something to eat, and then to the swing, where she liked
to rest, look, and listen. The Harvester suggested reading to her, but she shook her head.

"Wait until winter," she said, "when the days are longer and cold, and the snow buries everything,
and then read. Now tell me about my hedge and the things you have planted in it."

The Harvester went out and collected a bunch of twigs. He handed her a big, evenly proportioned
leaf of ovate shape, and explained: "This is burning bush, so called because it has pink berries
that hang from long, graceful stems all winter, and when fully open they expose a flame-red
seed pod. It was for this colour on gray and white days that I planted it. In the woods I grow
it in thickets. The root bark brings twenty cents a pound, at the very least. It is good fever
medicine."

"Is it poison?"

"No. I didn't set anything acutely poisonous in your hedge. I wanted it to be a mass of bloom
you were free to cut for the cabin all spring, an attraction to birds in summer, and bright
with colour in winter. To draw the feathered tribe, I planted alder, wild cherry, and grape-vines.
This is cherry. The bark is almost as beautiful as birch. I raise it for tonics and the birds
love the cherries. This fern-like leaf is from mountain ash, and when it attains a few years'
growth it will flame with colour all winter in big clusters of scarlet berries. That I grow
in the woods is a picture in snow time, and the bark is one of my standard articles."

The Girl raised on her elbow and looked at the hedge.

"I see it," she said. "The berries are green now. I suppose they change colour as they ripen."

"Yes," said the Harvester. "And you must not confuse them with sumac. The leaves are somewhat
similar, but the heads differ in colour and shape. The sumac and buckeye you must not touch,
until we learn what they will do to you. To some they are slightly poisonous, to others not.
I couldn't help putting in a few buckeyes on account of the big buds in early spring. You will
like the colour if you are fond of pink and yellow in combination, and the red-brown nuts in
grayish-yellow, prickly hulls, and the leaf clusters are beautiful, but you must use care.
I put in witch hazel for variety, and I like its appearance; it's mighty good medicine, too;
so is spice brush, and it has leaves that colour brightly, and red berries. These selections
were all made for a purpose. Now here is wafer ash; it is for music as well as medicine. I
have invoked all good fairies to come and dwell in this hedge, and so I had to provide an orchestra
for their dances. This tree grows a hundred tiny castanets in a bunch, and when they ripen
and become dry the wind shakes fine music from them. Yes, they are medicine; that is, the bark
of the roots is. Almost without exception everything here has medicinal properties. The tulip
poplar will bear you the loveliest flowers of all, and its root bark, taken in winter, makes
a good fever remedy."

"How would it do to eat some of the leaves and see if they wouldn't take the feverishness from me?"

"It wouldn't do at all," said the Harvester. "We are well enough fixed to allow Doc to come
now, and he is the one to allay the fever."

"Oh no!" she cried. "No! I don't want to see a doctor. I will be all right very soon. You said
I was better."

"You are," said the Harvester. "Much better! We will have you strong and well soon. You should
have come in time for a dose of sassafras. Your hedge is filled with that, because of its peculiar
leaves and odour. I put in dogwood for the white display around the little green bloom, lots
of alder for bloom and berries, haws for blossoms and fruit for the squirrels, wild crab apples
for the exquisite bloom and perfume, button bush for the buttons, a few pokeberry plants for
the colour, and I tried some mallows, but I doubt if it's wet enough for them. I set pecks
of vine roots, that are coming nicely, and ferns along the front edge. Give it two years and
that hedge will make a picture that will do your eyes good."

"Can you think of anything at all you forgot?"

"Yes indeed!" said the Harvester. "The woods are full of trees I have not used; some because
I overlooked them, some I didn't want. A hedge like this, in perfection, is the work of years.
Some species must be cut back, some encouraged, but soon it will be lovely, and its colour
and fruit attract every bird of the heavens and butterflies and insects of all varieties. I
set several common cherry trees for the robins and some blackberry and raspberry vines for
the orioles. The bloom is pretty and the birds you'll have will be a treat to see and hear,
if we keep away cats, don't fire guns, scatter food, and move quietly among them. With our
water attractions added, there is nothing impossible in the way of making friends with feathered
folk."

"There is one thing I don't understand," said the Girl. "You wouldn't risk breaking the wing
of a moth by keeping it when you wanted a drawing very much; you don't seem to kill birds and
animals that other people do. You almost worship a tree; now how can you take a knife and peel
the bark to sell or dig up beautiful bushes by the root."

"Perhaps I've talked too much about the woods," said the Harvester gently. "I've longed inexpressibly
for sympathetic company here, because I feel rooted for life, so I am more than anxious that
you should care for it. I may have made you feel that my greatest interest is in the woods,
and that I am not consistent when I call on my trees and plants to yield of their store for
my purposes. Above everything else, the human proposition comes first, Ruth. I do love my trees,
bushes, and flowers, because they keep me at the fountain of life, and teach me lessons no
book ever hints at; but above everything come my fellow men. All I do is for them. My heart
is filled with feeling for the things you see around you here, but it would be joy to me to
uproot the most beautiful plant I have if by so doing I could save you pain. Other men have
wives they love as well, little children they have fathered, big bodies useful to the world,
that are sometimes crippled with disease. There is nothing I would not give to allay the pain
of humanity. It is not inconsistent to offer any growing thing you soon can replace, to cure
suffering. Get that idea out of your head! You said you could worship at the shrine of the
pokeberry bed, you feel holier before the arrowhead lilies, your face takes on an appearance
of reverence when you see pink mallow blooms. Which of them would you have hesitated a second
in uprooting if you could have offered it to subdue fever or pain in the body of the little
mother you loved?"

"Oh I see!" cried the Girl. "Like everything else you make this different. You worship all
this beauty and grace, wrought by your hands, but you carry your treasure to the market place
for the good of suffering humanity. Oh Man! I love the work you do!"

"Good!" cried the Harvester. "Good! And Ruth-girl, while you are about it, see if you can't
combine the man and his occupation a little."

CHAPTER XVI. GRANNY MORELAND'S VISIT

The following morning the Girl was awakened by wheels on the gravel outside her window, and
lifted her head to see Betsy passing with a load of lumber. Shortly afterward the sound of
hammer and saw came to her, and she knew that Singing Water bridge was being roofed to provide
shade for her. She dressed and went to the kitchen to find a dainty breakfast waiting, so she
ate what she could, and then washed the dishes and swept. By that time she was so tired she
dropped on a dining-room window seat, and lay looking toward the bridge. She could catch glimpses
of the Harvester as he worked. She watched his deft ease in handling heavy timbers, and the
assurance with which he builded. Sometimes he stood and with tilted head studied his work a
minute, then swiftly proceeded. He placed three tree trunks on each side for pillars, laid
joists across, formed his angle, and nailed boards as a foundation for shingling. Occasionally
he glanced toward the cabin, and finally came swinging up the drive. He entered the kitchen
softly, but when he saw the Girl in the window he sat at her feet.

"Oh but this is a morning, Ruth!" he said.

She looked at him closely. He radiated health and good cheer. His tanned cheeks were flushed
red with exercise, and the hair on his temples was damp.

"You have been breaking the rules," he said. "It is the law that I am to do the work until
you are well and strong again. Why did you tire yourself?"

"I am so perfectly useless! I see so many things that I would enjoy doing. Oh you can do everything
else, make me well! Make me strong!"

"How can I, when you won't do as I tell you?"

"I will! Indeed I will!"

"Then no more attempts to stand over dishes and clean big floors. You mustn't overwork yourself
at anything. The instant you feel in the least tired you must lie down and rest."

"But Man! I'm tired every minute, with a dead, dull ache, and I don't feel as if I ever would
be rested again in all the world."

The Harvester took one of her hands, felt its fevered palm, fluttering wrist pulse, and noticed
that the brilliant red of her lips had extended to spots on her cheeks. He formed his resolution.

"Can't work on that bridge any more until I drive in for some big nails," he said. "Do you
mind being left alone for an hour?"

"Not at all, if Bel will stay with me. I'll lie in the swing."

"All right!" answered the Harvester. "I'll help you out and to get settled. Is there anything
you want from town?"

"No, not a thing!"

"Oh but you are modest!" cried the Harvester. "I can sit here and name fifty things I want
for you."

"Oh but you are extravagant!" imitated the Girl. "Please, please, Man, don't! Can't you see
I have so much now I don't know what to do with it? Sometimes I almost forget the ache, just
lying and looking at all the wonderful riches that have come to me so suddenly. I can't believe
they won't vanish as they came. By the hour in the night I look at my lovely room, and I just
fight my eyes to keep them from closing for fear they'll open in that stifling garret to the
heat of day and work I have not strength to do. I know yet all this will prove to be a dream
and a wilder one than yours."

The face of the Harvester was very anxious.

"Please to remember my dream came true," he said, "and much sooner than I had the least hope
that it would. I'm wide awake or I couldn't be building bridges; and you are real, if I know
flesh and blood when I touch it."

"If I were well, strong, and attractive, I could understand," she said. "Then I could work
in the house, at the drawings, help with the herbs, and I'd feel as if I had some right to
be here."

"All that is coming," said the Harvester. "Take a little more time. You can't expect to sin
steadily against the laws of health for years, and recover in a day. You will be all right
much sooner than you think possible."

"Oh I hope so!" said the Girl. "But sometimes I doubt it. How I could come here and put such
a burden on a stranger, I can't see. I scarcely can remember what awful stress drove me. I
had no courage. I should have finished in my garret as my mother did. I must have some of my
father's coward blood in me. She never would have come. I never should!"

"If it didn't make any real difference to you, and meant all the world to me, I don't see why
you shouldn't humour me. I can't begin to tell you how happy I am to have you here. I could
shout and sing all day."

"It requires very little to make some people happy."

"You are not much, but you are going to be more soon," laughed the Harvester, as he gently
picked up the Girl and carried her to the swing, where he covered her, kissed her hot hand,
and whistled for Belshazzar. He pulled the table close and set a pitcher of iced fruit juice
on it. Then he left her and she could hear the rattle of wheels as he crossed the bridge and
drove away.

"Betsy, this is mighty serious business," said the Harvester. "The Girl is scorching or I don't
know fever. I wonder----well, one thing is sure----she is bound to be better off in pure, cool
air and with everything I can do to be kind, than in Henry Jameson's attic with everything
he could do to be mean. Pleasant men those Jamesons! Wonder if the Girl's father was much like
her Uncle Henry? I think not or her refined and lovely mother never would have married him.
Come to think of it, that's no law, Betsy. I've seen beautiful and delicate women fall under
some mysterious spell, and yoke their lives with rank degenerates. Whatever he was, they have
paid the price. Maybe the wife deserved it, and bore it in silence because she knew she did,
but it's bitter hard on Ruth. Girls should be taught to think at least one generation ahead
when they marry. I wonder what Doc will say, Betsy? He will have to come and see for himself.
I don't know how she will feel about that. I had hoped I could pull her through with care,
food, and tonics, but I don't dare go any farther alone. Betsy, that's a thin, hot, little
hand to hold a man's only chance for happiness."

"Well, bridegroom! I've been counting the days!" said Doctor Carey. "The Missus and I made
it up this morning that we had waited as long as we would. We are coming to-night. David."

"It's all right, Doc," said the Harvester. "Don't you dare think anything is wrong or that
I am not the proudest, happiest man in this world, because I appear anxious. I am not trying
to conceal it from you. You know we both agreed at first that Ruth should be in the hospital,
Doc. Well, she should! She is what would be a lovely woman if she were not full of the poison
of wrong food and air, overwork, and social conditions that have warped her. She is all I dreamed
of and more, but I've come for you. She is too sick for me. I hoped she would begin to gain
strength at once on changed conditions. As yet I can't see any difference. She needs a doctor,
but I hate for her to know it. Could you come out this afternoon, and pretend as if it were
a visit? Bring Mrs. Carey and watch the Girl. If you need an examination, I think she will
obey me. If you can avoid it, fix what she should have and send it back to me by a messenger.
I don't like to leave her when she is so ill."

"I'll come at once, David."

"Then she will know that I came for you, and that will frighten her. You can do more good to
wait until afternoon, and pretend you are making a social call. I must go now. I'd have brought
her in, but I have no proper conveyance yet. I'm promised something soon, perhaps it is ready
now. Good-bye! Be sure to come!"

The Harvester drove to a livery barn and examined a little horse, a shining black creature
that seemed gentle and spirited. He thought favourably of it. A few days before he had selected
a smart carriage, and with this outfit tied behind the wagon he returned to Medicine Woods.
He left the horse at the bridge, stabled Betsy, and then returned for the new conveyance, driving
it to the hitching post. At the sound of unexpected wheels the Girl lifted her head and stared
at the turnout.

"Come on!" cried the Harvester opening the screen. "We are going to the woods to initiate your
carriage."

She went with little cries of surprised wonder.

"This is how you travel to Onabasha to do your shopping, to call on Mrs. Carey and the friends
you will make, and visit the library. When I've tried out Mr. Horse enough to prove him reliable
as guaranteed, he is yours, for your purposes only, and when you grow wonderfully well and
strong, we'll sell him and buy you a real live horse and a stanhope, such as city ladies have;
and there must be a saddle so that you can ride."

"Oh I'd love that!" cried the Girl. "I always wanted to ride! Where are we going?"

"To show you Medicine Woods," said the Harvester. "I've been waiting for this. You see there
are several hundred acres of trees, thickets, shrubs, and herb beds up there, and if the wagon
road that winds between them were stretched straight it would be many miles in length, so we
have a cool, shaded, perfumed driveway all our own. Let me get you a drink before you start
and the little shawl. It's chilly there compared with here. Now are you comfortable and ready?"

"Yes," said the Girl. "Hurry! I've just longed to go, but I didn't like to ask."

"I am sorry," said the Harvester. "Living here for years alone and never having had a sister,
how am I going to know what a girl would like if you don't tell me? I knew it would be too
tiresome for you to walk, and I was waiting to find a reliable horse and a suitable carriage."

"You won't scratch or spoil it up there?"

"I'll lower the top. It is not as wide as the wagon, so nothing will touch it."

"This is just so lovely, and such a wonderful treat, do you observe that I'm not saying a word
about extravagance?" asked the Girl, as she leaned back in the carriage and inhaled the invigorating
wood air.

The horse climbed the hill, and the Harvester guided him down long, dim roads through deep
forest, while he explained what large thickets of bushes were, why he grew them, how he collected
the roots or bark, for what each was used and its value. On and on they went, the way ahead
always appearing as if it were too narrow to pass, yet proving amply wide when reached. Excited
redbirds darted among the bushes, and the Harvester answered their cry. Blackbirds protested
against the unusual intrusion of strange objects, and a brown thrush slipped from a late nest
close the road wailing in anxiety.

One after another the Harvester introduced the Girl to the best trees, speculated on their
age, previous history, and pointed out which brought large prices for lumber and which had
medicinal bark and roots. On and on they slowly drove through the woods, past the big beds
of cranesbill, violets, and lilies. He showed her where the mushrooms were most numerous, and
for the first time told the story of how he had sold them and the violets from door to door
in Onabasha in his search for her, and the amazed Girl sat staring at him. He told of Doctor
Carey having seen her once, and inquired as they passed the bed if the yellow violets had revived.
He stopped to search and found a few late ones, deep among the leaves.

"Oh if I only had known that!" cried the Girl, "I would have kept them forever."

"No need," said the Harvester. "Here and now I present you with the sole ownership of the entire
white and yellow violet beds. Next spring you shall fill your room. Won't that be a treat?"

"One money never could buy!" cried the Girl.

"Seems to be my strong point," commented the Harvester. "The most I have to offer worth while
is something you can't buy. There is a fine fairy platform. They can spare you one. I'll get it."

The Harvester broke from a tree a large fan-shaped fungus, the surface satin fine, the base
mossy, and explained to the Girl that these were the ballrooms of the woods, the floors on
which the little people dance in the moonlight at their great celebrations. Then he added a
piece of woolly dog moss, and showed her how each separate spine was like a perfect little
evergreen tree.

"That is where the fairies get their Christmas pines," he explained.

"Do you honestly believe in fairies?"

"Surely!" exclaimed the Harvester. "Who would tell me when the maples are dripping sap, and
the mushrooms springing up, if the fairies didn't whisper in the night? Who paints the flower
faces, colours the leaves, enamels the ripening fruit with bloom, and frosts the window pane
to let me know that it is time to prepare for winter? Of course! They are my friends and everyday
helpers. And the winds are good to me. They carry down news when tree bloom is out, when the
pollen sifts gold from the bushes, and it's time to collect spring roots. The first bluebird
always brings me a message. Sometimes he comes by the middle of February, again not until late
March. Always on his day, Belshazzar decides my fate for a year. Six years we've played that
game; now it is ended in blessed reality. In the woods and at my work I remain until I die,
with a few outside tries at medicine making. I am putting up some compounds in which I really
have faith. Of course they have got to await their time to be tested, but I believe in them.
I have grown stuff so carefully, gathered it according to rules, washed it decently, and dried
and mixed it with such scrupulous care. Night after night I've sat over the books until midnight
and later, studying combinations; and day after day I've stood in the laboratory testing and
trying, and two or three will prove effective, or I've a disappointment coming."

"You haven't wasted time! I'd much rather take medicines you make than any at the pharmacies.
Several times I've thought I'd ask you if you wouldn't give me some of yours. The prescription
Doctor Carey sent does no good. I've almost drunk it, and I am constantly tired, just the same.
You make me something from these tonics and stimulants you've been telling me about. Surely
you can help me!"

"I've got one combination that's going to save life, in my expectations. But Ruth, it never
has been tried, and I couldn't experiment on the very light of my eyes with it. If I should
give you something and you'd grow worse as a result--I am a strong man, my girl, but I couldn't
endure that. I'd never dare. But dear, I am expecting Carey and his wife out any time; probably
they will come to-day, it's so beautiful; and when they do, for my sake, won't you talk with
him, tell him exactly what made you ill, and take what he gives you? He's a great man. He was
recently President of the National Association of Surgeons. Long ago he abandoned general practice,
but he will prescribe for you; all his art is at your command. It's quite an honour, Ruth.
He performs all kinds of miracles, and saves life every day. He had not seen you, and what
he gave me was only by guess. He may not think it is the right thing at all after he meets you."

"Then I am really ill?"

"No. You only have the germs of illness in your blood, and if you will help me that much we
can eliminate them; and then it is you for housekeeper, with first assistant in me, the drawing
tools, paint box, and all the woods for subjects. So, as I was going to tell you, Belshazzar
and I have played our game for the last time. That decision was ultimate. Here I will work,
live, and die. Here, please God, strong and happy, you shall live with me. Ruth, you have got
to recover quickly. You will consult the doctor?"

"Yes, and I wish he would hurry," said the Girl. "He can't make me new too soon to suit me.
If I had a strong body, oh Man, I just feel as if you could find a soul somewhere in it that
would respond to all these wonders you have brought me among. Oh! make me well, and I'll try
as woman never did before to bring you happiness to pay for it."

"Careful now," warned the Harvester. "There is to be no talk of obligations between you and
me. Your presence here and your growing trust in me are all I ask at the hands of fate at present.
Long ago I learned to 'labour and to wait.' By the way----here's my most difficult labour and
my longest wait. This is the precious gingseng bed."

"How pretty!" exclaimed the Girl.

Covering acres of wood floor, among the big trees, stretched the lacy green carpet. On slender,
upright stalks waved three large leaves, each made up of five stemmed, ovate little leaves,
round at the base, sharply pointed at the tip. A cluster of from ten to twenty small green
berries, that would turn red later, arose above. The Harvester lifted a plant to show the Girl
that the Chinese name, Jin-chen, meaning man-like, originated because the divided root resembled
legs. Away through the woods stretched the big bed, the growth waving lightly in the wind,
the peculiar odour filling the air.

"I am going to wait to gather the crop until the seeds are ripe," said the Harvester, "then
bury some as I dig a root. My father said that was the way of the Indians. It's a mighty good
plan. The seeds are delicate, and difficult to gather and preserve properly. Instead of collecting
and selling all of them to start rivals in the business, I shall replant my beds. I must find
a half dozen assistants to harvest this crop in that way, and it will be difficult, because
it will come when my neighbours are busy with corn."

"Maybe I can help you."

"Not with ginseng digging," laughed the Harvester. "That is not woman's work. You may sit in
an especially attractive place and boss the job."

"Oh dear!" cried the Girl. "Oh dear! I want to get out and walk."

Gradually they had climbed the summit of the hill, descended on the other side, and followed
the road through the woods until they reached the brier patches, fruit trees; and the garden
of vegetables, with big beds of sage, rue, wormwood, hoarhound, and boneset. From there to
the lake sloped the sunny fields of mullein and catnip, and the earth was molten gold with
dandelion creeping everywhere.

"Too hot to-day," cautioned the Harvester. "Too rough walking. Wait until fall, and I have
a treat there for you. Another flower I want you to love because I do."

"I will," said the Girl promptly. "I feel it in my heart."

"Well I am glad you feel something besides the ache of fever," said the Harvester. Then noticing
her tired face he added: "Now this little horse had quite a trip from town, and the wheels
cut deeply into this woods soil and make difficult pulling, so I wonder if I had not better
put him in the stable and let him become acquainted with Betsy. I don't know what she will
think. She has had sole possession for years. Maybe she will be jealous, perhaps she will be
as delighted for company as her master. Ruth, if you could have heard what I said to Belshazzar
when he decided I was to go courting this year, and seen what I did to him, and then take a
look at me now----merciful powers, I hope the dog doesn't remember! If he does, no wonder he
forms a new allegiance so easily. Have you observed that lately when I whistle, he starts,
and then turns back to see if you want him? He thinks as much of you as he does of me right now."

"Oh no!" cried the Girl. "That couldn't be possible. You told me I must make friends with him,
so I have given him food, and tried to win him."

"You sit in the carriage until I put away the horse, and then I'll help you to the cabin, and
save you being alone while I work. Would you like that?"

"Yes."

She leaned her head against the carriage top the Harvester had raised to screen her, and watched
him stable the horse. Evidently he was very fond of animals for he talked as if it were a child
he was undressing and kept giving it extra strokes and pats as he led it away. Ajax disliked
the newcomer instantly, noticed the carriage and the woman's dress, and screamed his ugliest.
The Girl smiled. As the Harvester appeared she inquired, "Is Ajax now sending a wireless to
Ceylon asking for a mate?"

The Harvester looked at her quizzically and saw a gleam of mischief in the usually dull dark
eyes that delighted him.

"That is the customary supposition when he finds voice," he said. "But since this has become
your home, you are bound to learn some of my secrets. One of them I try to guard is the fact
that Ajax has a temper. No my dear, he is not always sending a wireless, I am sorry to say.
I wish he was! As a matter of fact he is venting his displeasure at any difference in our conditions.
He hates change. He learned that from me. I will enjoy seeing him come for favour a year from
now, as I learned to come for it, even when I didn't get much, and the road lay west of Onabasha.
Ajax, stop that! There's no use to object. You know you think that horse is nice company for
you, and that two can feed you more than one. Don't be a hypocrite! Cease crying things you
don't mean, and learn to love the people I do. Come on, old boy!"

The peacock came, but with feathers closely pressed and stepping daintily. As the bird advanced,
the Harvester retreated, until he stood beside the Girl, and then he slipped some grain to
her hand and she offered it. But Ajax would not be coaxed. He was too fat and well fed. He
haughtily turned and marched away, screaming at intervals.

"Nasty temper!" commented the Harvester. "Never mind! He soon will become accustomed to you,
and then he will love you as Belshazzar does. Feed the doves instead. They are friendly enough
in all conscience. Do you notice that there is not a coloured feather among them? The squab
that is hatched with one you may have for breakfast. Now let's go find something to eat, and
I will finish the bridge so you can rest there to-night and watch the sun set on Singing Water."

So they went into the cabin and prepared food, and then the Harvester told the Girl to make
herself so pretty that she would be a picture and come and talk to him while he finished the
roof. She went to her room, found a pale lavender linen dress and put it on, dusted the pink
powder thickly, and went where a wide bench made an inviting place in the shade. There she
sat and watched her lightly expressed whim take shape.

"Soon as this is finished," said the Harvester, "I am going to begin on that tea table. I can
make it in a little while, if you want it to match the other furniture."

"I do," said the Girl.

"Wonder if you could draw a plan showing how it should appear. I am a little shy on tea tables."

"I think I can."

The Harvester brought paper, pencil, and a shingle for a drawing pad.

"Now remember one thing," he said. "If you are in earnest about using those old blue dishes,
this has got to be a big, healthy table. A little one will appear top heavy with them. It would
be a good idea to set out what you want to use, arranged as you would like them, and let me
take the top measurement that way."

"All right! I'll only indicate how its legs should be and we will find the size later. I could
almost weep because that wonderful set is broken. If I had all of it I'd be so proud!"

The Girl bent over the drawing. The Harvester worked with his attention divided between her,
the bridge, and the road. At last he saw the big red car creeping up the valley.

"Seems to be some one coming, Ruth! Guess it must be Doc. I'll go open the gate?"

"Yes," said the Girl. "I'm so glad. You won't forget to ask him to help me if he can?"

The Harvester wheeled hastily. "I won't forget!" he said, as he hurried to the gate. The car
ran slowly, and the Girl could see him swing to the step and stand talking as they advanced.
When they reached her they stopped and all of them came forward. She went to meet them. She
shook hands with Mrs. Carey and then with the doctor.

"I am so glad you have come," she said.

"I hope you are not lonesome already," laughed the doctor.

"I don't think any one with brains to appreciate half of this ever could become lonely here,"
answered the Girl. "No, it isn't that."

"A-ha!" cried the doctor, turning to his wife. "You see that the beautiful young lady remembers
me, and has been wishing I would come. I always said you didn't half appreciate me. What a
place you are making, David! I'll run the car to the shade and join you."

For a long time they talked under the trees, then they went to see the new home and all its
furnishings.

"Now this is what I call comfort," said the doctor. "David, build us a house exactly similar
to this over there on the hill, and let us live out here also. I'd love it. Would you, Clara?"

"I don't know. I never lived in the country. One thing is sure: If I tried it, I'd prefer this
to any other place I ever saw. David, won't you take me far enough up the hill that I can look
from the top to the lake?"

"Certainly," said the Harvester. "Excuse us a little while, Ruth!"

As soon as they were gone the Girl turned to the doctor.

"Doctor Carey, David says you are great. Won't you exercise your art on me. I am not at all
well, and oh! I'd so love to be strong and sound."

"Will you tell me," asked the doctor, "just enough to show me what caused the trouble?"

"Bad air and water, poor light and food at irregular times, overwork and deep sorrow; every
wrong condition of life you could imagine, with not a ray of hope in the distance, until now.
For the sake of the Harvester, I would be well again. Please, please try to cure me!"

So they talked until the doctor thought he knew all he desired, and then they went to see the
gold flower garden.

"I call this simply superb," said he, taking a seat beneath the tree roof of her porch. "Young
woman, I don't know what I'll do to you if you don't speedily grow strong here. This is the
prettiest place I ever saw, and listen to the music of that bubbling, gurgling little creek!"

"Isn't he wonderful?" asked the Girl, looking up the hill, where the tall form of the Harvester
could be seen moving around. "Just to see him, you would think him the essence of manly strength
and force. And he is! So strong! Into the lake at all hours, at the dry-house, on the hill,
grubbing roots, lifting big pillars to support a bridge roof, and with it all a fancy as delicate
as any dreaming girl. Doctor, the fairies paint the flowers, colour the fruit, and frost the
windows for him; and the winds carry pollen to tell him when his growing things are ready for
the dry-house. I don't suppose I can tell you anything new about him; but isn't he a perpetual
surprise? Never like any one else! And no matter how he startles me in the beginning, he always
ends by convincing me, at least, that he is right."

"I never loved any other man as I do him," said the doctor. "I ushered him into the world when
I was a young man just beginning to practise, and I've known him ever since. I know few men
so scrupulously clean. Try to get well and make him happy, Mrs. Langston. He so deserves it."

"You may be sure I will," answered the Girl.

After the visitors had gone, the Harvester told her to place the old blue dishes as she would
like to arrange them on her table, so he could get a correct idea of the size, and he left
to put a few finishing strokes on the bridge cover. She went into the dining-room and opened
the china closet. She knew from her peep in the work-room that there would be more pieces than
she had seen before; but she did not think or hope that a full half dozen tea set and plates,
bowl, platter, and pitcher would be waiting for her.

"Why Ruth, what made you tire yourself to come down? I intended to return in a few minutes."

"Oh Man!" cried the laughing Girl, as she clung pantingly to a bridge pillar for support, "I
just had to come to tell you. There are fairies! Really truly ones! They have found the remainder
of the willow dishes for me, and now there are so many it isn't going to be a table at all.
It must be a little cupboard especially for them, in that space between the mantel and the
bookcase. There should be a shining brass tea canister, and a wafer box like the arts people
make, and I'll pour tea and tend the chafing dish and you can toast the bread with a long fork
over the coals, and we will have suppers on the living-room table, and it will be such fun."

"Be seated!" cried the Harvester. "Ruth, that's the longest speech I ever heard you make, and
it sounded, praise the Lord, like a girl. Did Doc say he would fix something for you?"

"Yes, such a lot of things! I am going to shut my eyes and open my mouth and swallow all of
them. I'm going to be born again and forget all I ever knew before I came here, and soon I
will be tagging you everywhere, begging you to suggest designs for my pencil, and I'll simply
force life to come right for you."

The Harvester smiled.

"Sounds good!" he said. "But, Ruth, I'm a little dubious about force work. Life won't come
right for me unless you learn to love me, and love is a stubborn, contrary bulldog element
of our nature that won't be driven an inch. It wanders as the wind, and strikes us as it will.
You'll arrive at what I hope for much sooner if you forget it and amuse yourself and be as
happy as you can. Then, perhaps all unknown to you, a little spark of tenderness for me will
light in your breast; and if it ever does we will buy a fanning mill and put it in operation,
and we'll raise a flame or know why."

"And there won't be any force in that?"

"What you can't compel is the start. It's all right to push any growth after you have something
to work on."

"That reminds me," said the Girl, "there is a question I want to ask you."

"Go ahead!" said the Harvester, glancing at her as he hewed a joist.

She turned away her face and sat looking across the lake for a long time.

"Is it a difficult question, Ruth?" inquired the Harvester to help her.

"Yes," said the Girl. "I don't know how to make you see."

"Take any kind of a plunge. I'm not usually dense."

"It is really quite simple after all. It's about a girl----a girl I knew very well in Chicago.
She had a problem----and it worried her dreadfully, and I just wondered what you would think
of it."

The Harvester shifted his position so that he could watch the side of the averted face.

"You'll have to tell me, before I can tell you," he suggested.

"She was a girl who never had anything from life but work and worry. Of course, that's the
only kind I'd know! One day when the work was most difficult, and worry cut deepest, and she
really thought she was losing her mind, a man came by and helped her. He lifted her out, and
rescued all that was possible for a man to save to her in honour, and went his way. There wasn't
anything more. Probably there never would be. His heart was great, and he stooped and pitied
her gently and passed on. After a time another man came by, a good and noble man, and he offered
her love so wonderful she hadn't brains to comprehend how or why it was."

The Girl's voice trailed off as if she were too weary to speak further, while she leaned her
head against a pillar and gazed with dull eyes across the lake.

"And your question," suggested the Harvester at last.

She roused herself. "Oh, the question! Why this----if in time, and after she had tried and
tried, love to equal his simply would not come would----would----she be wrong to PRETEND she
cared, and do the very best she could, and hope for real love some day? Oh David, would she?"

The Harvester's face was whiter than the Girl's. He pounded the chisel into the joist savagely.

"Would she, David?"

"Let me understand you clearly," said the man in a dry, breathless voice. "Did she love this
first man to whom she came under obligations?"

The Girl sat gazing across the lake and the tortured Harvester stared at her.

"I don't know," she said at last. "I don't know whether she knew what love was or ever could.
She never before had known a man; her heart was as undeveloped and starved as her body. I don't
think she realized love, but there was a SOMETHING. Every time she would feel most grateful
and long for the love that was offered her, that 'something' would awake and hurt her almost
beyond endurance. Yet she knew he never would come. She knew he did not care for her. I don't
know that she felt she wanted him, but she was under such obligations to him that it seemed
as if she must wait to see if he might not possibly come, and if he did she should be free."

"If he came, she preferred him?"

"There was a debt she had to pay----if he asked it. I don't know whether she preferred him.
I do know she had no idea that he would come, but the POSSIBILITY was always before her. If
he didn't come in time, would she be wrong in giving all she had to the man who loved her?"

The Harvester's laugh was short and sharp.

"She had nothing to give, Ruth! Talk about worm-wood, colocynth apples, and hemlock! What sort
of husks would that be to offer a man who gave honest love? Lie to him! Pretend feeling she
didn't experience. Endure him for the sake of what he offered her? Well I don't know how calmly
any other man would take that proceeding, Ruth, but tell your friend for me, that if I offered
a woman the deep, lasting, and only loving passion of my heart, and she gave back a lie and
indifferent lips, I'd drop her into the deepest hole of my lake and take my punishment cheerfully."

"But if it would make him happy? He deserves every happiness, and he need never know!"

The Harvester's laugh raised to an angry roar.

"You simpleton!" he cried roughly. "Do you know so little of human passion in the heart that
you think love can be a successful assumption? Good Lord, Ruth! Do you think a man is made
of wood or stone, that a woman's lips in her first kiss wouldn't tell him the truth? Why Girl,
you might as well try to spread your tired arms and fly across the lake as to attempt to pretend
a love you do not feel. You never could!"

"I said a girl I knew!"

"'A Girl you knew,' then! Any woman! The idea is monstrous. Tell her so and forget it. You
almost scared the life out of me for a minute, Ruth. I thought it was going to be you. But
I remember your debt is to be paid with the first money you earn, and you can not have the
slightest idea what love is, if you honestly ask if it can be simulated. No ma'am! It can't!
Not possibly! Not ever! And when the day comes that its fires light your heart, you will come
to me, and tell of a flood of delight that is tingling from the soles of your feet through
every nerve and fibre of your body, and you will laugh with me at the time when you asked if
it could be imitated successfully. No, ma'am! Now let me help you to the cabin, serve a good
supper, and see you eat like a farmer."

All evening the Harvester was so gay he kept the Girl laughing and at last she asked him the cause.

"Relief, honey! Relief!" cried the man. "You had me paralyzed for a minute, Ruth. I thought
you were trying to tell me that there was some one so possessing your heart that it failed
every time you tried to think about caring for me. If you hadn't convinced me before you finished
that love never has touched you, I'd be the saddest man in the world to-night, Ruth."

The Girl stared at him with wide eyes and silently turned away.

Then for a week they worked out life together in the woods. The Harvester was the housekeeper
and the cook. He added to his store many delicious broths and stimulants he brought from the
city. They drove every day through the cool woods, often rowed on the lake in the evenings,
walked up the hill to the oak and scattered fresh flowers on the two mounds there, and sat
beside them talking for a time. The Harvester kept up his work with the herbs, and the little
closet for the blue dishes was finished. They celebrated installing them by having supper on
the living-room table, with the teapot on one end, and the pitcher full of bellflowers on the
other.

The Girl took everything prescribed for her, bathed, slept all she could, and worked for health
with all the force of her frail being, and as the days went by it seemed to the Harvester her
weight grew lighter, her hands hotter, and she drove herself to a gayety almost delirious.
He thought he would have preferred a dull, stupid sleep of malaria. There was colour in plenty
on her cheeks now, and sometimes he found her wrapped in the white shawl at noon on the warmest
days Medicine Woods knew in early August; and on cool nights she wore the thinnest clothing
and begged to be taken on the lake. The Careys came out every other evening and the doctor
watched and worked, but he did not get the results he desired. His medicines were not effective.

"David," he said one evening, "I don't like the looks of this. Your wife has fever I can't
break. It is eating the little store of vitality she has right out of her, and some of these
days she is coming down with a crash. She should yield to the remedies I am giving her. She
acts to me like a woman driven wild by trouble she is concealing. Do you know anything that
worries her?"

"No," said the Harvester, "but I'll try to find out if it will help you in your work."

After they were gone he left the Girl lying in the swing guarded by the dog, and went across
the marsh on the excuse that he was going to a bed of thorn apple at the foot of the hill.
There he sat on a log and tried to think. With the mists of night rising around him, ghosts
arose he fain would have escaped. "What will you give me in cold cash to tell you who she is,
and who her people are?" Times untold in the past two weeks he had smothered, swallowed, and
choked it down. That question she had wanted to ask----was it for a girl she had known, or
was it for herself? Days of thought had deepened the first slight impression he so bravely
had put aside, not into certainty, but a great fear that she had meant herself. If she did,
what was he to do? Who was the man? There was a debt she had to pay if he asked it? What debt
could a woman pay a man that did not involve money? Crouched on a log he suffered and twisted
in agonizing thought. At last he arose and returned to the cabin. He carried a few frosty,
blue-green leaves of velvet softness and unusual cutting, prickly thorn apples full of seeds,
and some of the smoother, more yellowish-green leaves of the jimson weed, to give excuse for
his absence.

"Don't touch them," he warned as he came to her. "They are poison and have disagreeable odour.
But we are importing them for medicinal purposes. On the far side of the marsh, where the ground
rises, there is a waste place just suited to them, and so long as they will seed and flourish
with no care at all, I might as well have the price as the foreign people who raise them. They
don't bring enough to make them worth cultivating, but when they grow alone and with no care,
I can make money on the time required to clip the leaves and dry the seeds. I must go wash
before I come close to you."

The next day he had business in the city, and again she lay in the swing and talked to the
dog while the Harvester was gone. She was startled as Belshazzar arose with a gruff bark. She
looked down the driveway, but no one was coming. Then she followed the dog's eyes and saw a
queer, little old woman coming up the bank of Singing Water from the north. She remembered
what the Harvester had said, and rising she opened the screen and went down the path. As the
Girl advanced she noticed the scrupulous cleanliness of the calico dress and gingham apron,
and the snowy hair framing a bronzed face with dancing dark eyes.

"Are you David's new wife?" asked Granny Moreland with laughing inflection.

"Yes," said the Girl. "Come in. He told me to expect you. I am so sorry he is away, but we
can get acquainted without him. Let me help you."

"I don't know but that ought to be the other way about. You don't look very strong, child."

"I am not well," said the Girl, "but it's lovely here, and the air is so fine I am going to
be better soon. Take this chair until you rest a little, and then you shall see our pretty
home, and all the furniture and my dresses."

"Yes, I want to see things. My, but David has tried himself! I heard he was just tearin' up
Jack over here, and I could get the sound of the hammerin', and one day he asked me to come
and see about his beddin'. He had that Lizy Crofter to wash for him, but if I hadn't jest stood
over her his blankets would have been ruined. She's no more respect for fine goods than a pig
would have for cream pie. I hate to see woollens abused, as if they were human. My, but things
is fancy here since what David planted is growin'! Did you ever live in the country before?"

"No."

"Where do you hail from?"

"Well not from the direction of hail," laughed the Girl. "I lived in Chicago, but we were----were
not rich, and so I didn't know the luxury of the city; just the lonely, difficult part."

"Do you call Chicago lonely?"

"A thousand times more so than Medicine Woods. Here I know the trees will whisper to me, and
the water laughs and sings all day, and the birds almost split their throats making music for
me; but I can imagine no loneliness on earth that will begin to compare with being among the
crowds and crowds of a large city and no one has a word or look for you. I miss the sea of
faces and the roar of life; at first I was almost wild with the silence, but now I don't find
it still any more; the Harvester is teaching me what each sound means and they seem to be countless."

"You think, then, you'll like it here?"

"I do, indeed! Any one would. Even more than the beautiful location, I love the interesting
part of the Harvester's occupation. I really think that gathering material to make medicines
that will allay pain is the very greatest of all the great work a man can do."

"Good!" cried Granny Moreland, her dark eyes snapping. "I've always said it! I've tried to
encourage David in it. And he's just capital at puttin' some of his stuff in shape, and combinin'
it in as good medicine as you ever took. This spring I was all crippled up with the rheumatiz
until I wanted to holler every time I had to move, and sometimes it got so aggravatin' I'm
not right sure but I done it. 'Long comes David and says, 'I can fix you somethin',' and bless
you, if the boy didn't take the tucks out of me, until here I am, and tickled to pieces that
I can get here. This time last year I didn't care if I lived or not. Now seems as if I'm caperish
as a three weeks' lamb. I don't see how a man could do a bigger thing than to stir up life
in you like that."

"I think this place makes an especial appeal to me, because, shortly before I came, I had to
give up my mother. She was very ill and suffered horribly. Every time I see David going to
his little laboratory on the hill to work a while I slip away and ask God to help him to fix
something that will ease the pain of humanity as I should like to have seen her relieved."

"Why you poor child! No wonder you are lookin' so thin and peaked!"

"Oh I'll soon be over that," said the Girl. "I am much better than when I came. I'll be coming
over to trade pie with you before long. David says you are my nearest neighbour, so we must
be close friends."

"Well bless your big heart! Now who ever heard of a pretty young thing like you wantin' to
be friends with a plain old country woman?"

"Why I think you are lovely!" cried the Girl. "And all of us are on the way to age, so we must
remember that we will want kindness then more than at any other time. David says you knew his
mother. Sometime won't you tell me all about her? You must very soon. The Harvester adored
her, and Doctor Carey says she was the noblest woman he ever knew. It's a big contract to take
her place. Maybe if you would tell me all you can remember I could profit by much of it."

Granny Moreland watched the Girl keenly.

"She wa'ant no ordinary woman, that's sure," she commented. "And she didn't make no common
man out of her son, either. I've always contended she took the job too serious, and wore herself
out at it, but she certainly done the work up prime. If she's above cloud leanin' over the
ramparts lookin' down----though it gets me as to what foundation they use or where they get
the stuff to build the ramparts----but if they is ramparts, and she's peekin' over them, she
must take a lot of solid satisfaction in seeing that David is not only the man she fought and
died to make him, but he's give her quite a margin to spread herself on. She 'lowed to make
him a big man, but you got to know him close and plenty 'fore it strikes you jest what his
size is. I've watched him pretty sharp, and tried to help what I could since Marthy went, and
I'm frank to say I druther see David happy than to be happy myself. I've had my fling. The
rest of the way I'm willin' to take what comes, with the best grace I can muster, and wear
a smilin' face to betoken the joy I have had; but it cuts me sore to see the young sufferin'."

"Do you think David is unhappy?" asked the Girl eagerly.

"I don't see how he could be!" cried the old lady. "Of course he ain't! 'Pears as if he's got
everythin' to make him the proudest, best satisfied of men. I'll own I was mighty anxious to
see you. I know the kind o' woman it would take to make David miserable, and it seems sometimes
as if men----that is good men----are plumb, stone blind when it comes to pickin' a woman. They
jest hitch up with everlastin' misery easy as dew rolling off a cabbage leaf. It's sech a blessed
sight to see you, and hear your voice and know you're the woman anybody can see you be. Why
I'm so happy when I set here and con-tem'-plate you, I want to cackle like a pullet announcin'
her first egg. Ain't this porch the purtiest place?"

"Come see everything," invited the Girl, rising.

Granny Moreland followed with alacrity.

"Bare floors!" she cried. "Wouldn't that best you? I saw they was finished capital when I was
over, but I 'lowed they'd be covered afore you come. Don't you like nice, flowery Brissels
carpets, honey?"

"No I don't," said the Girl. "You see, when rugs are dusty they can be rolled, carried outside,
and cleaned. The walls can be wiped, the floors polished and that way a house is always fresh.
I can keep this shining, germ proof, and truly clean with half the work and none of the danger
of heavy carpets and curtains."

"I don't doubt but them is true words," said Granny Moreland earnestly. "Work must be easier
and sooner done than it was in my day, or people jest couldn't have houses the size of this
or the time to gad that women have now. From the looks of the streets of Onabasha, you wouldn't
think a woman 'ud had a baby to tend, a dinner pot a-bilin', or a bakin' of bread sence the
flood. And the country is jest as bad as the city. We're a apin' them to beat the monkeys at
a show. I hardly got a neighbour that ain't got figgered Brissels carpet, a furnace, a windmill,
a pianny, and her own horse and buggy. Several's got autermobiles, and the young folks are
visitin' around a-ridin' the trolleys, goin' to college, and copyin' city ways. Amos Peters,
next to us; goes bareheaded in the hay field, and wears gloves to pitch and plow in. I tell
him he reminds me of these city women that only wears the lower half of a waist and no sleeves,
and a yard of fine goods moppin' the floors. Well if that don't 'beat the nation! Ain't them
Marthy's old blue dishes?"

"Let me show you!" The Girl opened the little cupboard and exhibited the willow ware. The eyes
of the old woman began to sparkle.

"Foundation or no foundation, I do hope them ramparts is a go!" she cried. "If Marthy Langston
is squintin' over them and she sees her old chany put in a fine cupboard, and her little shawl
round as purty a girl as ever stepped, and knows her boy is gittin' what he deserves, good
Lord, she'll be like to oust the Almighty, and set on the throne herself! 'Bout everythin'
in life was a disappointment to her, 'cept David. Now if she could see this! Won't I rub it
into the neighbours? And my boys' wives!"

"I don't understand," said the bewildered Girl.

"'Course you don't, honey," explained the visitor. "It's like this: I don't know anybody, man
or woman, in these parts, that ain't rampagin' for CHANGE. They ain't one of them that would
live in a log cabin, though they's not a house in twenty miles of here that fits its surroundin's
and looks so homelike as this. They run up big, fancy brick and frame things, all turns and
gables and gay as frosted picnic pie, and work and slave to git these very carpets you say
ain't healthy, and the chairs you say you wouldn't give house room, an' they use their grandmother's
chany for bakin', scraps, and grease dishes, and hide it if they's visitors. All of them strainin'
after something they can't afford, and that ain't healthy when they git it, because somebody
else is doin' the same thing. Mary Peters says she is afeared of her life in their new steam
wagon, and she says Andy gits so narvous runnin' it, he jest keeps on a-jerkin' and drivin'
all night, and she thinks he'll soon go to smash himself, if the machine doesn't beat him.
But they are keepin' it up, because Graceston's is, and so it goes all over the country. Now
I call it a slap right in the face to have a Chicagy woman come to the country to live and
enjoy a log cabin, bare floors, and her man's grandmother's dishes. If there ain't Marthy's
old blue coverlid also carefully spread on a splinter new sofy. Landy, I can't wait to get
to my son John's! He's got a woman that would take two coppers off the collection plate while
she was purtendin' to put on one, if she could, and then spend them for a brass pin or a string
of glass beads. Won't her eyes bung when I tell her about this? She wanted my Peter Hartman
kiver for her ironin' board. Show me the rest!"

"This is the dining-room," said the Girl, leading the way.

Granny Moreland stepped in and sent her keen eyes ranging over the floor, walls, and furnishings.
She sank on a chair and said with a chuckle, "Now you go on and tell me all about it, honey.
Jest what things are and why you fixed them, and how they are used."

The Girl did her best, and the old woman nodded in delighted approval.

"It's the purtiest thing I ever saw," she announced. "A minute ago, I'd 'a' said them blue
walls back there, jest like October skies in Indian summer, and the brown rugs, like leaves
in the woods, couldn't be beat; but this green and yaller is purtier yet. That blue room will
keep the best lookin' part of fall on all winter, and with a roarin' wood fire, it'll be capital,
and no mistake; but this here is spring, jest spring eternal, an' that's best of all. Looks
like it was about time the leaves was bustin' and things pushin' up. It wouldn't surprise me
a mite to see a flock of swallers come sailin' right through these winders. And here's a place
big enough to lay down and rest a spell right handy to the kitchen, where a-body gits tiredest,
without runnin' a half mile to find a bed, and in the mornin' you can look down to the 'still
waters'; and in the afternoon, when the sun gits around here, you can pull that blind and 'lift
your eyes to the hills,' like David of the Bible says. My, didn't he say the purtiest things!
I never read nothin' could touch him!"

"Have you seen the Psalms arranged in verse as we would write it now?"

"You don't mean to tell me David's been put into real poetry?"

"Yes. Some Bibles have all the poetical books in our forms of verse."

"Well! Sometimes I git kind o' knocked out! As a rule I hold to old ways. I think they're the
healthiest and the most faver'ble to the soul. But they's some changes come along, that's got
sech hard common-sense to riccomend them, that I wonder the past generations didn't see sooner.
Now take this! An hour ago I'd told you I'd read my father's Bible to the end of my days. But
if they's a new one that's got David, Solomon, and Job in nateral form, I'll have one, and
I'll git a joy I never expected out of life. I ain't got so much poetry in me, but it always
riled me to read, '7. The law of the Lord is perfect, covertin' the soul. 8. The statutes of
the Lord are right. 9. The fear of the Lord is clean.' And so it goes on, 'bout as much figgers
as they is poetry. Always did worry me. So if they make Bibles 'cordin' to common sense, I'll
have one to-morrow if I have to walk to Onabasha to get it. Lawsy me! if you ain't gathered
up Marthy's old pink tea set, and give it a show, too! Did you do that to please David, or
do you honestly think them is nice dishes?"

"I think they are beautiful," laughed the Girl, sinking to a chair. "I don't know that it did
please him. He had been studying the subject, but something saved him from buying anything
until I came. I'd have felt dreadfully if he had gotten what he wanted."

"What did he want, honey?" asked the old lady in an awestruck whisper.

"Egg-shell china and cut glass."

"And you wouldn't let him! Woman! What do you want?"

"A set of tulip-yellow dishes, with Dutch little figures on them. They are so quaint and they
would harmonize perfectly with this room."

The old lady laughed gleefully.

"My! I wouldn't 'a' missed this for a dollar," she cried. "It jest does my soul good. More'n
that, if you really like Marthy's dishes and are going to take care of them and use them right,
I'll give you mine, too. I ain't never had a girl. I've always hoped she'd 'a' had some jedgment
of her own, and not been eternally apin', if I had, but the Lord may 'a' saved me many a disappointment
by sendin' all mine boys. Not that I'm layin' the babies on to the Lord at all----I jest got
into the habit of sayin' that, 'cos everybody else does, but all mine, I had a purty good idy
how I got them. If a girl of mine wouldn't 'a' had more sense, raised right with me, I'd' a'
been purty bad cut up over it. Of course, I can't be held responsible for the girls my boys
married, but t'other day Emmeline----that's John's wife----John is the youngest, and I sort
o' cling to him----Emmeline she says to me, 'Mother, can't I have this old pink and green teapot?'
My heart warmed right up to the child, and I says, 'What do you want it for, Emmeline?' And
she says, 'To draw the tea in.' Cracky Dinah! That fool woman meant to set my grandmother's
weddin' present from her pa and ma, dishes same as Marthy Washington used, on the stove to
bile the tea in. I jest snorted! 'No, says I, 'you can't! 'Fore I die,' says I, 'I'll meet
up with some woman that 'll love dishes and know how to treat them.' I think jest about as
much of David as I do my own boys, and I don't make no bones of the fact that he's a heap more
of a man. I'd jest as soon my dishes went to his children as to John's. I'll give you every
piece I got, if you'll take keer of them."

"Would it be right?" wavered the girl.

"Right! Why, I'm jest tellin' you the fool wimmen would bile tea in them, make grease sassers
of them, and use them to dish up the bakin' on! Wouldn't you a heap rather see them go into
a cupboard like David's ma's is in, where they'd be taken keer of, if they was yours? I guess
you would!"

"Well if you feel that way, and really want us to have them, I know David will build another
little cupboard on the other side of the fireplace to put yours in, and I can't tell you how
I'd love and care for them."

"I'll jest do it!" said Granny Moreland. "I got about as many blue ones as Marthy had an' mine
are purtier than hers. And my lustre is brighter, for I didn't use it so much. Is this the
kitchen? Well if I ever saw sech a cool, white place to cook in before! Ain't David the beatenest
hand to think up things? He got the start of that takin' keer of his ma all his life. He sort
of learned what a woman uses, and how it's handiest. Not that other men don't know; it's jest
that they are too mortal selfish and keerless to fix things. Well this is great! Now when you
bile cabbage and the wash, always open your winders wide and let the steam out, so it won't
spile your walls."

"I'll be very careful," promised the Girl. "Now come see my bathroom, closet and bedroom."

"Well as I live! Ain't this fine. I'll bet a purty that if I'd 'a' had a room and a trough
like this to soak in when I was wore to a frazzle, I wouldn't 'a' got all twisted up with rheumatiz
like I am. It jest looks restful to see. I never washed in a place like this in all my days.
Must feel grand to be wet all over at once! Now everybody ought to have sech a room and use
it at all hours, like David does the lake. Did you ever see his beat to go swimmin'? He's always
in splashin'! Been at it all his life. I used to be skeered when he was a little tyke. He soaked
so much 'peared like he'd wash all the substance out of him, but it only made him strong."

"Has he ever been ill?"

"Not that I know of, and I reckon I'd knowed it if he had. Well what a clothespress! I never
saw so many dresses at once. Ain't they purty? Oh I wish I was young, and could have one like
that yaller. And I'd like to have one like your lavender right now. My! You are lucky to have
so many nice clothes. It's a good thing most girls haven't got them, or they'd stand primpin'
all day tryin' to decide which one to put on. I don't see how you tell yourself."

"I wear the one that best hides how pale I am," answered the Girl. "I use the colours now.
When I grow plump and rosy, I'll wear the white."

Granny Moreland dropped on the couch and assured herself that it was Martha's pink Peter Hartman.
Then she examined the sunshine room.

"Well I got to go back to the start," she said at last. "This beats the dinin'-room. This is
the purtiest thing I ever saw. Oh I do hope they ain't so run to white in Heaven as some folks
seem to think! Used to be scandalized if a-body took anythin' but a white flower to a funeral.
Now they tell me that when Jedge Stilton's youngest girl come from New York to her pa's buryin'
she fetched about a wash tub of blood-red roses. Put them all over him, too! Said he loved
red roses livin' and so he was goin' to have them when he passed over. Now if they are lettin'
up a little on white on earth, mebby some of the stylish ones will carry the fashion over yander.
If Heaven is like this, I won't spend none of my time frettin' about the foundations. I'll
jest forget there is any, even if we do always have to be so perticler to get them solid on
earth. Talk of gold harps! Can't you almost hear them? And listen to the birds and that water!
Say, you won't get lonesome here, will you?"

"Indeed no!" answered the Girl. "Wouldn't you like to lie on my beautiful couch that the Harvester
made with his own hands, and I'll spread Mother Langston's coverlet over you and let you look
at all my pretty things while I slip away a few minutes to something I'd like to do?"

"I'd love to!" said the old woman. "I never had a chance at such fine things. David told me
he was makin' your room all himself, and that he was goin' to fill it chuck full of everythin'
a girl ever used, and I see he done it right an' proper. Away last March he told me he was
buildin' for you, an' I hankered so to have a woman here again, even though I never s'posed
she'd be sochiable like you, that I egged him on jest all I could. I never would 'a' s'posed
the boy could marry like this----all by himself."

The Girl went to the ice chest to bring some of the fruit juice, chilled berries, and to the
pantry for bread and wafers to make a dainty little lunch that she placed on the veranda table;
and then she and Granny Moreland talked, until the visitor said that she must go. The Girl
went with her to the little bridge crossing Singing Water on the north. There the old lady
took her hand.

"Honey," she said, "I'm goin' to tell you somethin'. I am so happy I can purt near fly. Last
night I was comin' down the pike over there chasin' home a contrary old gander of mine, and
I looked over on your land and I see David settin' on a log with his head between his hands
a lookin' like grim death, if I ever see it. My heart plum stopped. Says I, 'she's a failure!
She's a bustin' the boy's heart! I'll go straight over and tell her so.' I didn't dare bespeak
him, but I was on nettles all night. I jest laid a-studyin' and a-studyin', and I says, 'Come
mornin' I'll go straight and give her a curry-combin' that'll do her good.' And I started a-feelin'
pretty grim, and here you came to meet me, and wiped it all out of my heart in a flash. It
did look like the boy was grievin'; but I know now he was jest thinkin' up what to put together
to take the ache out of some poor old carcass like mine. It never could have been about you.
Like a half blind old fool I thought the boy was sufferin', and here he was only studyin'!
Like as not he was thinkin' what to do next to show you how he loves you. What an old silly
I was! I'll sleep like a log to-night to pay up for it. Good-bye, honey! You better go back
and lay down a spell. You do look mortal tired."

The Girl said good-bye and staggering a few steps sank on a log and sat staring at the sky.

"Oh he was suffering, and about me!" she gasped. A chill began to shake her and feverish blood
to race through her veins. "He does and gives everything; I do and give nothing! Oh why didn't
I stay at Uncle Henry's until it ended? It wouldn't have been so bad as this. What will I do?
Oh what will I do? Oh mother, mother! if I'd only had the courage you did."

She arose and staggered up the hill, passed the cabin and went to the oak. There she sank shivering
to earth, and laid her face among the mosses. The frightened Harvester found her at almost
dusk when he came from the city with the Dutch dishes, and helped a man launch a gay little
motor boat for her on the lake.

"Why Ruth! Ruth-girl!" he exclaimed, kneeling beside her.

She lifted a strained, distorted face.

"Don't touch me! Don't come near me!" she cried. "It is not true that I am better. I am not!
I am worse! I never will be better. And before I go I've got to tell you of the debt I owe;
then you will hate me, and then I will be glad! Glad, I tell you! Glad! When you despise me?
then I can go, and know that some day you will love a girl worthy of you. Oh I want you to
hate me I am fit for nothing else."

She fell forward sobbing wildly and the Harvester tried in vain to quiet her. At last he said,
"Well then tell me, Ruth. Remember I don't want to hear what you have to say. I will believe
nothing against you, not even from your own lips, when you are feverish and excited as now,
but if it will quiet you, tell me and have it over. See, I will sit here and listen, and when
you have finished I'll pick you up and carry you to your room, and I am not sure but I will
kiss you over and over. What is it you want to tell me, Ruth?"

She sat up panting and pushed back the heavy coils of hair.

"I've got to begin away at the beginning to make you see," she said. "The first thing I can
remember is a small, such a small room, and mother sewing and sometimes a man I called father.
He was like Henry Jameson made over tall and smooth, and more, oh, much more heartless! He
was gone long at a time, and always we had most to eat, and went oftener to the parks, and
were happiest with him away. When I was big enough to understand, mother told me that she had
met him and cared for him when she was an inexperienced girl. She must have been very, very
young, for she was only a girl as I first remember her, and oh! so lovely, but with the saddest
face I ever saw. She said she had a good home and every luxury, and her parents adored her;
but they knew life and men, and they would not allow him in their home, and so she left it
with him, and he married her and tried to force them to accept him, and they would not. At
first she bore it. Later she found him out, and appealed to them, but they were away or would
not forgive, and she was a proud thing, and would not beg more after she had said she was wrong,
and would they take her back.

"I grew up and we were girls together. We embroidered, and I drew, and sometimes we had little
treats and good times, and my father did not come often, and we got along the best we could.
Always it was worse on her, because she was not so strong as I, and her heart was secretly
breaking for her mother, and she was afraid he would come back any hour. She was tortured that
she could not educate me more than to put me through the high school. She wore herself out
doing that, but she was wild for me to be reared and trained right. So every day she crouched
over delicate laces and embroidery, and before and after school I carried it and got more,
and in vacation we worked together. But living grew higher, and she became ill, and could not
work, and I hadn't her skill, and the drawings didn't bring much, and I'd no tools----"

"Ruth, for mercy sake let me take you in my arms. If you've got to tell this to find peace,
let me hold you while you do it."

"Never again," said the Girl. "You won't want to in a minute. You must hear this, because I
can't bear it any longer, and it isn't fair to let you grieve and think me worth loving. Anyway,
I couldn't earn what she did, and I was afraid, for a great city is heartless to the poor.
One morning she fainted and couldn't get up. I can see the awful look in her eyes now. She
knew what was coming. I didn't. I tried to be brave and to work. Oh it's no use to go on with
that! It was just worse and worse. She was lovely and delicate, she was my mother, and I adored
her. Oh Man! You won't judge harshly?"

"No!" cried the Harvester, "I won't judge at all, Ruth. I see now. Get it over if you must
tell me."

"One day she had been dreadfully ill for a long time and there was no food or work or money,
and the last scrap was pawned, and she simply would not let me notify the charities or tell
me who or where her people were. She said she had sinned against them and broken their hearts,
and probably they were dead, and I was desperate. I walked all day from house to house where
I had delivered work, but it was no use; no one wanted anything I could do, and I went back
frantic, and found her gnawing her fingers and gibbering in delirium. She did not know me,
and for the first time she implored me for food.

"Then I locked the door and went on the street and I asked a woman. She laughed and said she'd
report me and I'd be locked up for begging. Then I saw a man I passed sometimes. I thought
he lived close. I went straight to him, and told him my mother was very ill, and asked him
to help her. He told me to go to the proper authorities. I told him I didn't know who they
were or where, and I had no money and she was a woman of refinement, and never would forgive
me. I offered, if he would come to see her, get her some beef tea, and take care of her while
she lived, that afterward----"

The Girl's frail form shook in a storm of sobs. At last she lifted her eyes to the Harvester's.
"There must be a God, and somewhere at the last extremity He must come in. The man went with
me, and he was a young doctor who had an office a few blocks away, and he knew what to do.
He hadn't much himself, but for several weeks he divided and she was more comfortable and not
hungry when she went. When it was over I dressed her the best I could in my graduation dress,
and folded her hands, and kissed her good-bye, and told him I was ready to fulfill my offer;
and oh Man!----He said he had forgotten!"

"God!" panted the Harvester.

"We couldn't bury her there. But I remembered my father had said he had a brother in the country,
and once he had been to see us when I was very little, and the doctor telegraphed him, and
he answered that his wife was sick, and if I was able to work I could come, and he would bury
her, and give me a home. The doctor borrowed the money and bought the coffin you found her
in. He couldn't do better or he would, for he learned to love her. He paid our fares and took
us to the train. Before I started I went on my knees to him and worshipped him as the Almighty,
and I am sure I told him that I always would be indebted to him, and any time he required I
would pay. The rest you know."

"Have you heard from him, Ruth?"

"No."

"It WAS yourself the other day on the bridge?"

"Yes."

"Did he love you?"

"Not that I know of. No! Nobody but you would love a girl who appeared as I did then."

The Harvester strove to keep a set face, but his lips drew back from his teeth.

"Ruth, do you love him?"

"Love!" cried the Girl. "A pale, expressionless word! Adore would come closer! I tell you she
was delirious with hunger, and he fed her. She was suffering horrors and he eased the pain.
She was lifeless, and he kept her poor tired body from the dissecting table. I would have fulfilled
my offer, and gone straight into the lake, but he spared me, Man! He spared me! Worship is
a good word. I think I worship him. I tried to tell you. Before you got that license, I wanted
you to know."

"I remember," said the Harvester. "But no man could have guessed that a girl with your face
had agony like that in her heart, not even when he read deep trouble there."

"I should have told you then! I should have forced you to hear! I was wild with fear of Uncle
Henry, and I had nowhere to go. Now you know! Go away, and the end will come soon."

The Harvester arose and walked a few steps toward the lake, where he paused stricken, but fighting
for control. For him the light had gone out. There was nothing beyond. The one passion of his
life must live on, satisfied with a touch from lips that loved another man. Broken sobbing
came to him. He did not even have time to suffer. Stumblingly he turned and going to the Girl
he picked her up, and sat on the bench holding her closely.

"Stop it, Ruth!" he said unsteadily. "Stop this! Why should you suffer so? I simply will not
have it. I will save you against yourself and the world. You shall have all happiness yet;
I swear it, my girl! You are all right. He was a noble man, and he spared you because he loved
you, of course. I will make you well and rosy again, and then I will go and find him, and arrange
everything for you. I have spared you, too, and if he doesn't want you to remain here with
me, Mrs. Carey would be glad to have you until I can free you. Judges are human. It will be
a simple matter. Hush, Ruth, listen to me! You shall be free! At once, if you say so! You shall
have him! I will go and bring him here, and I will go away. Ruth, darling, stop crying and
hear me. You will grow better, now that you have told me. It is this secret that has made you
feverish and kept you ill. Ruth, you shall have happiness yet, if I have got to circle the
globe and scale the walls of Heaven to find it for you."

She struggled from his arms and ran toward the lake. When the Harvester caught her, she screamed
wildly, and struck him with her thin white hands. He lifted and carried her to the laboratory,
where he gave her a few drops from a bottle and soon she became quiet. Then he took her to
the sunshine room, laid her on the bed, locked the screens and her door, called Belshazzar
to watch, and ran to the stable. A few minutes later with distended nostrils and indignant
heart Betsy, under the flail of an unsparing lash, pounded down the hill toward Onabasha.

CHAPTER XVII. LOVE INVADES SCIENCE

The Harvester placed the key in the door and turned to Doctor Carey and the nurse.

"I drugged her into unconsciousness before I left, but she may have returned, at least partially.
Miss Barnet, will you kindly see if she is ready for the doctor? You needn't be in the least
afraid. She has no strength, even in delirium."

He opened the door, his head averted, and the nurse hurried into the room. The Girl on the
bed was beginning to toss, moan, and mutter. Skilful hands straightened her, arranged the covers,
and the doctor was called. In the living-room the Harvester paced in misery too deep for consecutive
thought. As consciousness returned, the Girl grew wilder, and the nurse could not follow the
doctor's directions and care for her. Then Doctor Carey called the Harvester. He went in and
sitting beside the bed took the feverish, wildly beating hands in his strong, cool ones, and
began stroking them and talking.

"Easy, honey," he murmured softly. "Lie quietly while I tell you. You mustn't tire yourself.
You are wasting strength you need to fight the fever. I'll hold your hands tight, I'll stroke
your head for you. Lie quietly, dear, and Doctor Carey and his head nurse are going to make
you well in a little while. That's right! Let me do the moving; you lie and rest. Only rest
and rest, until all the pain is gone, and the strong days come, and they are going to bring
great joy, love, and peace, to my dear, dear girl. Even the moans take strength. Try just to
lie quietly and rest. You can't hear Singing Water if you don't listen, Ruth."

"She doesn't realize that it is you or know what you say, David," said Doctor Carey gently.

"I understand," said the Harvester. "But if you will observe, you will see that she is quiet
when I stroke her head and hands, and if you notice closely you will grant that she gets a
word occasionally. If it is the right one, it helps. She knows my voice and touch, and she
is less nervous and afraid with me. Watch a minute!"

The Harvester took both of the Girl's fluttering hands in one of his and with long, light strokes
gently brushed them, and then her head, and face, and then her hands again, and in a low, monotonous,
half sing-song voice he crooned, "Rest, Ruth, rest! It is night now. The moon is bridging Loon
Lake, and the whip-poor-will is crying. Listen, dear, don't you hear him crying? Still, Girl,
still! Just as quiet! Lie so quietly. The whip-poor-will is going to tell his mate he loves
her, loves her so dearly. He is going to tell her, when you listen. That's a dear girl. Now
he is beginning. He says, 'Come over the lake and listen to the song I'm singing to you, my
mate, my mate, my dear, dear mate,' and the big night moths are flying; and the katydids are
crying, positive and sure they are crying, a thing that's past denying. Hear them crying? And
the ducks are cheeping, soft little murmurs while they're sleeping, sleeping. Resting, softly
resting! Gently, Girl, gently! Down the hill comes Singing Water, laughing, laughing! Don't
you hear it laughing? Listen to the big owl courting; it sees the coon out hunting, it hears
the mink softly slipping, slipping, where the dews of night are dripping. And the little birds
are sleeping, so still they are sleeping. Girls should be a-sleeping, like the birds a-sleeping,
for to-morrow joy comes creeping, joy and life and love come creeping, creeping to my Girl.
Gently, gently, that's a dear girl, gently! Tired hands rest easy, tired head lies still! That's
the way to rest----"

On and on the even voice kept up the story. All over and around the lake, the length of Singing
Water, the marsh folk found voices to tell of their lives, where it was a story of joy, rest,
and love. Up the hill ranged the Harvester, through the forest where the squirrels slept, the
owl hunted, the fire-flies flickered, the fairies squeezed flower leaves to make colour to
paint the autumn foliage, and danced on toadstool platforms. Just so long as his voice murmured
and his touch continued, so long the Girl lay quietly, and the medicines could act. But no
other touch would serve, and no other voice would answer. If the harvester left the room five
minutes to show the nurse how to light the fire, and where to find things, he returned to tossing,
restless delirium.

"It's magic David," said Doctor Carey. "Magic!"

"It is love," said the Harvester. "Even crazed with fever, she recognizes its voice and touch.
You've got your work cut out, Doc. Roll your sleeves and collect your wits. Set your heart
on winning. There is one thing shall not happen. Get that straight in your mind, right now.
And you too, Miss Barnet! There is nothing like fighting for a certainty. You may think the
Girl is desperately ill, and she is, but make up your minds that you are here to fight for
her life, and to save it. Save, do you understand? If she is to go, I don't need either of
you. I can let her do that myself. You are here on a mission of life. Keep it before you! Life
and health for this Girl is the prize you are going to win. Dig into it, and I'll pay the bills,
and extra besides. If money is any incentive, I'll give you all I've got for life and health
for the Girl. Are you doing all you know?"

"I certainly am, David."

"But when day comes you'll have to go back to the hospital and we may not know how to meet
crises that will arise. What then? We should have a competent physician in the house until
this fever breaks."

"I had thought of that, David. I will arrange to send one of the men from the hospital who
will be able to watch symptoms and come for me when needed."

"Won't do!" said the Harvester calmly. "She has no strength for waiting. You are to come when
you can, and remain as long as possible. The case is yours; your decisions go, but I will select
your assistant. I know the man I want."

"Who is he, David?"

"I'll tell you when I learn whether I can get him. Now I want you to give the Girl the strongest
sedative you dare, take off your coat, roll your sleeves, and see how well you can imitate
my voice, and how much you have profited by listening to my song. In other words, before day
calls, I want you to take my place so successfully that you deceive her, and give me time to
make a trip to town. There are a few things that must be done, and I think I can work faster
in the night. Will you?"

Doctor Carey bent over the bed. Gently he slipped a practised hand under the Harvester's and
made the next stroke down the white arm. Gradually he took possession of the thin hands and
his touch fell on the masses of dark hair. As the Harvester arose the doctor took the seat.

"You go on!" he ordered gruffly. "I'll do better alone."

The Harvester stepped back. The doctor's touch was easy and the Girl lay quietly for an instant,
then she moved restlessly.

"You must be still now," he said gently. "The moon is up, the lake is all white, and the birds
are flying all around. Lie still or you'll make yourself worse. Stiller than that! If you don't
you can't hear things courting. The ducks are quacking, the bull frogs are croaking, and everything.
Lie still, still, I tell you!"

"Oh good Lord, Doc!" groaned the Harvester in desperation.

The Girl wrenched her hands free and her head rolled on the pillow.

"Harvester! Harvester!" she cried.

The doctor started to arise.

"Sit still!" commanded the Harvester. "Take her hands and go to work, idiot! Give her more
sedative, and tell her I'm coming. That's the word, if she realizes enough to call for me."

The doctor possessed himself of the flying hands, and gently held and stroked them.

"The Harvester is coming," he said. "Wait just a minute, he's on the way. He is coming. I think
I hear him. He will be here soon, very soon now. That's a good girl! Lie still for David. He
won't like it if you toss and moan. Just as still, lie still so I can listen. I can't tell
whether he is coming until you are quiet."

Then he said to the Harvester, "You see, I've got it now. I can manage her, but for pity sake,
hurry man! Take the car! Jim is asleep on the back seat----Yes, yes, Girl! I'm listening for
him. I think I hear him! I think he's coming!"

Here and there a word penetrated, and she lay more quietly, but not in the rest to which the
Harvester had lulled her.

"Hurry man!" groaned the doctor in a whispered aside, and the Harvester ran to the car, awakened
the driver and told him he had a clear road to Onabasha, to speed up.

"Where to?" asked the driver.

"Dickson, of the First National."

In a few minutes the car stopped before the residence and the Harvester made an attack on the
front door. Presently the man came.

"Excuse me for routing you out at this time of night," said the Harvester, "but it's a case
of necessity. I have an automobile here. I want you to go to the bank with me, and get me an
address from your draft records. I know the rules, but I want the name of my wife's Chicago
physician. She is delirious, and I must telephone him."

The cashier stepped out and closed the door.

"Nine chances out of ten it will be in the vault," he said.

"That leaves one that it won't," answered the Harvester. "Sometimes I've looked in when passing
in the night, and I've noticed that the books are not always put away. I could see some on
the rack to-night. I think it is there."

It was there, and the Harvester ordered the driver to hurry him to the telephone exchange,
then take the cashier home and return and wait. He called the Chicago Information office.

"I want Dr. Frank Harmon, whose office address is 1509 Columbia Street. I don't know the 'phone
number."

Then came a long wait, and after twenty minutes the blessed buzzing whisper, "Here's your party."

"Doctor Harmon?"

"Yes."

"You remember Ruth Jameson, the daughter of a recent patient of yours?"

"I do."

"Well my name is Langston. The Girl is in my home and care. She is very ill with fever, and
she has much confidence in you. This is Onabasha, on the Grand Rapids and Indiana. You take
the Pennsylvania at seven o'clock, telegraph ahead that you are coming so that they will make
connection for you, change at twelve-twenty at Fort Wayne, and I will meet you here. You will
find your ticket and a check waiting you at the Chicago depot. Arrange to remain a week at
least. You will be paid all expenses and regular prices for your time. Will you come?"

"Yes."

"All right. Make no failure. Good-bye."

Then the Harvester left an order with the telephone company to run a wire to Medicine Woods
the first thing in the morning, and drove to the depot to arrange for the ticket and check.
In less than an hour he was holding the Girl's hands and crooning over her.

"Jerusalem!" said Doctor Carey, rising stiffly. "I'd rather undertake to cut off your head
and put it back on than to tackle another job like that. She's quite delirious, but she has
flashes, and at such times she knows whom she wants; the rest of the time it's a jumble and
some of it is rather gruesome. She's seen dreadful illness, hunger, and there's a debt she's
wild about. I told you something was back of this. You've got to find out and set her mind
at ease."

"I know all about it," said the Harvester patiently between crooning sentences to the Girl.
"But the crash came before I could convince her that it was all right and I could fix everything
for her easily. If she only could understand me!"

"Did you find your man?"

"Yes. He will be here this afternoon."

"Quick work!"

"This takes quick work."

"Do you know anything about him?"

"Yes. He is a young fellow, just starting out. He is a fine, straight, manly man. I don't know
how much he knows, but it will be enough to recognize your ability and standing, and to do
what you tell him. I have perfect confidence in him. I want you to come back at one, and take
my place until I go to meet him."

"I can bring him out."

"I have to see him myself. There are a few words to be said before he sees the Girl."

"David, what are you up to?"

"Being as honourable as I can. No man gets any too decent, but there is no law against doing
as you would be done by, and being as straight as you know how. When I've talked to him, I'll
know where I am and I'll have something to say to you."

"David, I'm afraid----"

"Then what do you suppose I am?" said the Harvester. "It's no use, Doc. Be still and take what
comes! The manner in which you meet a crisis proves you a whining cur or a man. I have got
lots of respect for a dog, as a dog; but I've none for a man as a dog. If you've gathered from
the Girl's delirium that I've made a mistake, I hope you have confidence enough in me to believe
I'll right it, and take my punishment without whining. Go away, you make her worse. Easy, Girl,
the world is all right and every one is sleeping now, so you should be at rest. With the day
the doctor will come, the good doctor you know and like, Ruth. You haven't forgotten your doctor,
Ruth? The kind doctor who cared for you. He will make you well, Ruth; well and oh, so happy!
Harmon, Harmon, Doctor Harmon is coming to you, Girl, and then you will be so happy!"

"Why you blame idiot!" cried Doctor Carey in a harsh whisper. "Have you lost all the sense
you ever had? Stop that gibber! She wants to hear about the birds and Singing Water. Go on
with that woods line of talk; she likes that away the best. This stuff is making her restless.
See!"

"You mean you are," said the Harvester wearily. "Please leave us alone. I know the words that
will bring comfort. You don't."

He began the story all over again, but now there ran through it a continual refrain. "Your
doctor is coming, the good doctor you know. He will make you well and strong, and he will make
life so lovely for you."

He was talking without pause or rest when Doctor Carey returned in the afternoon to take his
place. He brought Mrs. Carey with him, and she tried a woman's powers of soothing another woman,
and almost drove the Girl to fighting frenzy. So the doctor made another attempt, and the Harvester
raced down the hill to the city. He went to the car shed as the train pulled in, and stood
at one side while the people hurried through the gate. He was watching for a young man with
a travelling bag and perhaps a physician's satchel, who would be looking for some one.

"I think I'll know him," muttered the Harvester grimly. "I think the masculine element in me
will pop up strongly and instinctively at the sight of this man who will take my Dream Girl
from me. Oh good God! Are You sure You ARE good?"

In his brown khaki trousers and shirt, his head bare, his bronze face limned with agony he
made no attempt to conceal, the Harvester, with feet planted firmly, and tightly folded arms,
his head tipped slightly to one side, braced himself as he sent his keen gray eyes searching
the crowd. Far away he selected his man. He was young, strong, criminally handsome, clean and
alert; there was discernible anxiety on his face, and it touched the Harvester's soul that
he was coming just as swiftly as he could force his way. As he passed the gates the Harvester
reached his side.

"Doctor Harmon, I think," he said.

"Yes."

"This way! If you have luggage, I will send for it later."

The Harvester hurried to the car.

"Take the shortest cut and cover space," he said to the driver. The car kept to the speed limit
until toward the suburbs.

Doctor Harmon removed his hat, ran his fingers through dark waving hair and yielded his body
to the swing of the car. Neither man attempted to talk. Once the Harvester leaned forward and
told the driver to stop on the bridge, and then sat silently. As the car slowed down, they
alighted.

"Drive on and tell Doc we are here, and will be up soon," said the Harvester. Then he turned
to the stranger. "Doctor Harmon, there's little time for words. This is my place, and here
I grow herbs for medicinal houses."

"I have heard of you, and heard your stuff recommended," said the doctor.

"Good!" exclaimed the Harvester. "That saves time. I stopped here to make a required explanation
to you. The day you sent Ruth Jameson to Onabasha, I saw her leave the train and recognized
in her my ideal woman. I lost her in the crowd and it took some time to locate her. I found
her about a month ago. She was miserable. If you saw what her father did to her and her mother
in Chicago, you should have seen what his brother was doing here. The end came one day in my
presence, when I paid her for ginseng she had found to settle her debt to you. He robbed her
by force. I took the money from him, and he threatened her. She was ill then from heat, overwork,
wrong food----every misery you can imagine heaped upon the dreadful conditions in which she
came. It had been my intention to court and marry her if I possibly could. That day she had
nowhere to go; she was wild with fear; the fever that is scorching her now was in her veins
then. I did an insane thing. I begged her to marry me at once and come here for rest and protection.
I swore that if she would, she should not be my wife, but my honoured guest, until she learned
to love me and released me from my vow. She tried to tell me something; I had no idea it was
anything that would make any real difference, and I wouldn't listen. Last night, when the fever
was beginning to do its worst, she told me of your entrance into her life and what it meant
to her. Then I saw that I had made a mistake. You were her choice, the man she could love,
not me, so I took the liberty of sending for you. I want you to cure her, court her, marry
her, and make her happy. God knows she has had her share of suffering. You recognize her as
a girl of refinement?"

"I do."

"You grant that in health she would be lovelier than most women, do you not?"

"She was more beautiful than most in sickness and distress."

"Good!" cried the Harvester. "She has been here two weeks. I give you my word, my promise to
her has been kept faithfully. As soon as I can leave her to attend to it, she shall have her
freedom. That will be easy. Will you marry her?"

The doctor hesitated.

"What is it?" asked the Harvester.

"Well to be frank," said Doctor Harmon, "it is money! I'm only getting a start. I borrowed
funds for my schooling and what I used for her. She is in every way attractive enough to be
desired by any man, but how am I to provide a home and support her and pay these debts? I'll
try it, but I am afraid it will be taking her back to wrong conditions again."

"If you knew that she owned a comfortable cottage in the suburbs, where it is cool and clean,
and had, say a hundred a month of her own for the coming three years, could you see your way?"

"That would make all the difference in the world. I thought seriously of writing her. I wanted
to, but I concluded I'd better work as hard as I could for some practice first, and see if
I could make a living for two, before I tried to start anything. I had no idea she would not
be comfortably cared for at her uncle's."

"I see," said the Harvester. "If I had kept out, life would have come right for her."

"On the contrary," said the doctor, "it appears very probable that she would not be living."

"It is understood between us, then, that you will court and marry her so soon as she is strong
enough?"

"It is understood," agreed the doctor.

"Will you honour me by taking my hand?" asked the Harvester. "I scarcely had hoped to find
so much of a man. Now come to your room and get ready for the stiffest piece of work you ever
attempted."

The Harvester led the way to the guest chamber over looking the lake, and installed its first
occupant. Then he hurried to the Girl. The doctor was holding her head and one hand, his wife
the other, and the nurse her feet. It took the Harvester ten strenuous minutes to make his
touch and presence known and to work quiet. All over he began crooning his story of rest, joy,
and love. He broke off with a few words to introduce Doctor Harmon to the Careys and the nurse,
and then calmly continued while the other men stood and watched him.

"Seems rather cut out for it," commented Doctor Harmon.

"I never yet have seen him attempt anything that he didn't appear cut out for," answered Doctor
Carey.

"Will she know me?" inquired the young man, approaching the bed.

When the Girl's eyes fell on him she grew rigid and lay staring at him. Suddenly with a wild
cry she struggled to rise.

"You have come!" she cried. "Oh I knew you would come! I felt you would come! I cannot pay
you now! Oh why didn't you come sooner?"

The young doctor leaned over and took one of the white hands from the Harvester, stroking it
gently.

"Why you did pay, Ruth! How did you come to forget? Don't you remember the draft you sent me?
I didn't come for money; I came to visit you, to nurse you, to do all I can to make you well.
I am going to take care of you now so finely you'll be out on the lake and among the flowers
soon. I've got some medicine that makes every one well. It's going to make you strong, and
there's something else that's going to make you happy; and me, I'm going to be the proudest
man alive."

He reached over and took possession of the other hand, stroking them softly, and the Girl lay
tensely staring at him and gradually yielding to his touch and voice. The Harvester arose,
and passing around the bed, he placed a chair for Doctor Harmon and motioning for Doctor Carey
left the room. He went to the shore to his swimming pool, wearily dropped on the bench, and
stared across the water.

"Well thank God it worked, anyway!" he muttered.

"What's that popinjay doing here?" thundered Doctor Carey. "Got some medicine that cures everybody.
Going to make her well, is he? Make the cows, and the ducks, and the chickens, and the shitepokes
well, and happy----no name for it! After this we are all going to be well and happy! You look
it right now, David! What under Heaven have you done?"

"Left my wife with the man she loves, and to whom I release her, my dear friend," said the
Harvester. "And it's so easy for me that you needn't give making it a little harder, any thought."

"David, forgive me!" cried Doctor Carey. "I don't understand this. I'm almost insane. Will
you tell me what it means?"

"Means that I took advantage of the Girl's illness, utter loneliness, and fear, and forced
her into marrying me for shelter and care, when she loved and wanted another man, who was preparing
to come to her. He is her Chicago doctor, and fine in every fibre, as you can see. There is
only one thing on earth for me to do, and that is to get out of their way, and I'll do it as
soon as she is well; but I vow I won't leave her poor, tired body until she is, not even for
him. I thought sure I could teach her to love me! Oh but this is bitter, Doc!"

"You are a consummate fool to bring him here!" cried Doctor Carey. "If she is too sick to realize
the situation now, she will be different when she is normal again. Any sane girl that wouldn't
love you, David, ain't fit for anything!"

"Yes, I'm a whale of a lover!" said the Harvester grimly. "Nice mess I've made of it. But there
is no real harm done. Thank God, Harmon was not the only white man."

"David, what do you mean?"

"Is it between us, Doc?"

"Yes."

"For all time?"

"It is."

The Harvester told him. He ended, "Give the fellow his dues, Doc. He had her at his mercy,
utterly alone and unprotected, in a big city. There was not a living soul to hold him to account.
He added to his burdens, borrowed more money, and sent her here. He thought she was coming
to the country where she would be safe and well cared for until he could support her. I did
the remainder. Now I must undo it, that's all! But you have got to go in there and practise
with him. You've got to show him every courtesy of the profession. You must go a little over
the rules, and teach him all you can. You will have to stifle your feelings, and be as much
of a man as it is in you to be, at your level best."

"I'm no good at stifling my feelings!"

"Then you'll have to learn," said the Harvester. "If you'd lived through my years of repression
in the woods you'd do the fellow credit. As I see it, his side of this is nearly as fine as
you make it. I tell you she was utterly stricken, alone, and beautiful. She sought his assistance.
When the end came he thought only of her. Won't you give a young fellow in a place like Chicago
some credit for that? Can't you get through you what it means?"

Doctor Carey stood frowning in deep thought, but the lines of his face gradually changed.

"I suppose I've got to stomach him," he said.

The nurse came down the gravel path.

"Mr. Langston, Doctor Harmon asked me to call you," she said.

The Harvester arose and went to the sunshine room.

"What does he want, Molly?" asked the doctor.

"Wants to turn over his job," chuckled the nurse. "He held it about seven minutes in peace,
and then she began to fret and call for the Harvester. He just sweat blood to pacify her, but
he couldn't make it. He tried to hold her, to make love to her, and goodness knows what, but
she struggled and cried, 'David,' until he had to give it up and send me."

"Molly," said Doctor Carey, "we've known the Harvester a long time, and he is our friend, isn't
he?"

"Of course!" said the nurse.

"We know this is the first woman he ever loved, probably ever will, as he is made. Now we don't
like this stranger butting in here; we resent it, Molly. We are on the side of our friend,
and we want him to win. I'll grant that this fellow is fine, and that he has done well, but
what's the use in tearing up arrangements already made? And so suitable! Now Molly, you are
my best nurse, and a good reliable aid in times like this. I gave you instructions an hour
ago. I'll add this to them. YOU ARE ON THE HARVESTER'S SIDE. Do you understand? In this, and
the days to come, you'll have a thousand chances to put in a lick with a sick woman. Put them
in as I tell you."

"Yes, Doctor Carey."

"And Molly! You are something besides my best nurse. You're a smashing pretty girl, and your
occupation should make you especially attractive to a young doctor. I'm sure this fellow is
all right, so while you are doing your best with your patient for the Harvester, why not have
a try for yourself with the doctor? It couldn't do any harm, and it might straighten out matters.
Anyway, you think it over."

The nurse studied his face silently for a time, and then she began to laugh softly.

"He is up there doing his best with her," she said.

The doctor threw out his hands in a gesture of disdain, and the nurse laughed again; but her
cheeks were pink and her eyes flashing as she returned to duty.

"Random shot, but it might hit something, you never can tell," commented the doctor.

The Harvester entered the Girl's room and stood still. She was fretting and raising her temperature
rapidly. Before he reached the door his heart gave one great leap at the sound of her voice
calling his name. He knew what to do, but he hesitated.

"She seems to have become accustomed to you, and at times does not remember me," said Doctor
Harmon. "I think you had better take her again until she grows quiet."

The Harvester stepped to the bed and looked the doctor in the eye.

"I am afraid I left out one important feature in our little talk on the bridge," he said. "I
neglected to tell you that in your fight for this woman's life and love you have a rival. I
am he. She is my wife, and with the last fibre of my being I adore her. If you win, and she
wants you to take her away, I will help you; but my heart goes with her forever. If by any
chance it should occur that I have been mistaken or misinterpreted her delirium or that she
has been deceived and finds she prefers me and Medicine Woods, to you and Chicago, when she
has had opportunity to measure us man against man, you must understand that I claim her. So
I say to you frankly, take her if you can, but don't imagine that I am passive. I'll help you
if I know she wants you, but I fight you every inch of the way. Only it has got to be square
and open. Do you understand?"

"You are certainly sufficiently clear."

"No man who is half a man sees the last chance of happiness go out of his life without putting
up the stiffest battle he knows," said the Harvester grimly. "Ruth-girl, you are raising the
fever again. You must be quiet."

With infinite tenderness he possessed himself of her hands and began stroking her hair, and
in a low and soothing voice the story of the birds, flowers, lake, and woods went on. To keep
it from growing monotonous the Harvester branched out and put in everything he knew. In the
days that followed he held a position none could take from him. While the doctors fought the
fever, he worked for rest and quiet, and soothed the tortured body as best he could, that the
medicines might act.

But the fever was stubborn, and the remedies were slow; and long before the dreaded coming
day the doctors and nurse were quietly saying to each other that when the crisis came the heart
would fail. There was no vitality to sustain life. But they did not dare tell the Harvester.
Day and night he sat beside the maple bed or stretched sleeping a few minutes on the couch
while the Girl slept; and with faith never faltering and courage unequalled, he warned them
to have their remedies and appliances ready.

"I don't say it's going to be easy," he said. "I just merely state that it must be done. And
I'll also mention that, when the hour comes, the man who discovers that he could do something
if he had digitalis, or a remedy he should have had ready and has forgotten, that man had better
keep out of my sight. Make your preparations now. Talk the case over. Fill your hypodermics.
Clean your air pumps. Get your hot-water bottles ready. Have system. Label your stuff large
and set it conveniently. You see what is coming, be prepared!"

One day, while the Girl lay in a half-drugged, feverish sleep, the Harvester went for a swim.
He dressed a little sooner than was expected and in crossing the living-room he heard Doctor
Harmon say to Doctor Carey on the veranda, "What are we going to do with him when the end comes?"

The Harvester stepped to the door. "That won't be the question," he said grimly. "It will be
what will HE do with us?"

Then, with an almost imperceptible movement, he caught Doctor Harmon at the waist line, and
lifted and dangled him as a baby, and then stood him on the floor. "Didn't hardly expect that
much muscle, did you?" he inquired lightly. "And I'm not in what you could call condition,
either. Instead of wasting any time on fool questions like that, you two go over your stuff
and ask each other, have we got every last appliance known to physics and surgery? Have we
got duplicates on hand in case we break delicate instruments like hypodermic syringes and that
sort of thing? Engage yourselves with questions pertaining to life; that is your business.
Instead of planning what you'll do in failure, bolster your souls against it. Granny Moreland
beats you two put together in grip and courage."

The Harvester returned to his task, and the fight went on. At last the hour came when the temperature
fell lower and lower. The feeble pulses flickered and grew indiscernible; a gray pallor hovered
over the Girl, and a cold sweat stood on her temples.

"Now!" said the Harvester. "Exercise your calling! Fight like men or devils, but win you must."

They did work. They administered stimulants; applied heat to the chilled body; fans swept the
room with vitalized air; hypodermics were used; and every last resort known to science was
given a full test, and the weak heart throbbed slower and slower, and life ran out with each
breath. The Harvester stood waiting with set jaws. He could detect no change for the better.
At last he picked up a chilled hand and could discover no pulse, and the gray nails and the
dark tips told a story of arrested circulation. He laid down the hand and faced the men.

"This is what you'd call the crisis, Doc?" he asked gently.

"Yes."

"Are you stemming it? Are you stemming it? Are you sure she is holding her own?"

Doctor Carey looked at him silently.

"Have you done all you can do?" asked the Harvester.

"Yes."

"You believe her going out?"

"Yes."

The Harvester turned to Doctor Harmon. "Do you concur in that?"

"Yes."

Then to the nurse, "And you?"

"Yes."

"Then," said the Harvester, "all of you are useless. Get out of here. I don't want your atmosphere.
If you can believe only in death, leave us! She is my wife, and if this is the end she belongs
to me, and I will do as I choose with her. All of you go!"

The Harvester stepped to the bathroom door and called Granny Moreland. "Granny," he said, "science
has turned tail, and left me in extremity. Fill your hot-water bottles and come in here with
your heart big with hope and help me save my Dream Girl. She is breathing Granny; we've got
to make her keep it up, that's all----just keep her breathing."

He returned to the sunshine room, placed a small table beside the bed, and on it a glass of
water, spoon, and a hypodermic syringe. When Granny Moreland came he said: "Now you begin on
her feet and rub with long, sweeping, upward strokes to drive the blood to her heart."

Around the Girl he piled hot-water bottles and breathlessly hung over her, rubbing her hands.
He wiped the perspiration from her forehead, and then dropped by her bed and for a second laid
his face on her cold palm.

"If I am wrong, Heaven forgive me," he prayed. "And you, oh, my darling Dream Girl, forgive
me, but I am forced to try----God helping me! Amen."

He arose, took a small bottle from his pocket, filled the spoon with water, and measured into
it three drops of liquid as yellow as gold. Then he held the spoon to the blue lips, and with
his fingers worked apart the set teeth, and poured the medicine down her throat. Then they
rubbed and muttered snatches of prayer for fifteen minutes when the Harvester administered
another three drops. It might have been fancy, but it seemed to him her jaws were not so stiff.
Faster flew his hands and he sent Granny Moreland to refill the hot bottles. When he gave the
Girl the third dose he injected some of the liquid over her heart and of the glycerine the
doctors had left, in the extremities. He released more air and began rubbing again.

The second hour started in the same way, and ended with slowly relaxing muscles and faint tinges
of colour in the white cheeks. The feet were not so cold, and when the Harvester held the spoon
he knew that the Girl made an effort to swallow, and he could see her eyelids tremble. Thereupon
he pointed these signs to Granny, and implored her to rub and pray, and pray and rub, while
he worked until the perspiration rolled down his gray face. At the end of the second hour he
began decreasing the doses and shortening the time, and again he commenced in a low rumble
his song of life and health, to encourage the Girl as consciousness returned.

Occasionally Doctor Carey opened the door slightly and peeped in to see if he were wanted,
but he received no invitation to enter. The last time he left with the impression that the
Harvester was raving, while he worked over a lifeless body. He had the Girl warmly covered
and bent over her face and hands. At her feet crouched Granny Moreland, rubbing, still rubbing,
beneath the covers, while in a steady stream the Harvester was pouring out his song. If he
had listened an instant longer he would have recognized that the tone and the words had changed.
Now it was, "Gently, breathe gently, Girl! Slowly, steadily, easily! Deeper, a little deeper,
Ruth! Brave Girl, never another so wonderful! That's my Dream Girl coming from the shadows,
coming to life's sunshine, coming to hope, coming to love! Deeper, just a little deeper! Smoothly
and evenly! You are making it, Girl! You are making it! By all that is holy and glorious! Stick
to it, Ruth, hold tight to me! I'll help you, dear! You are coming, coming back to life and
love. Don't worry yourself trying too hard, if only you can send every breath as deeply as
the last one, you can make it. You brave girl! You wonderful Dream Girl! Ah, Ruth, the name
of this is victory!"

An hour before Doctor Carey had said to Doctor Harmon and the nurse, as he softly closed the
door: "It is over and the Harvester is raving. We'll give him a little more time and see if
he won't realize it himself. That will be easier for him than for us to try to tell him."

Now he opened the door, stared a second, and coming to the opposite side of the bed, he leaned
over the Girl. Then he felt her feet. They were warm and slightly damp. A surprised look crept
over his face. He gently reached for a hand that the Harvester yielded to him. It was warm,
the blue tips becoming rosy, the wrist pulse discernible. Then he bent closer, touched her
face, and saw the tremulous eyelids. He turned back the cover, and held his ear over her heart.
When he straightened, "As God lives, she's got a chance, David!" he exulted in an awed whisper.

The Harvester lifted a graven face, down which the sweat of agony rolled, and his lips parted
in a twitching smile. "Then this is where love beats the doctors, Carey!" he said.

"It is where love has ventured what science dares not. Love didn't do all of this. In the name
of the Almighty, what did you give her, David?"

"Life!" cried the Harvester. "Life! Come on, Ruth, come on! Out of the valley come to me! You
are well now, Girl! It's all over! The last trace of fever is gone, the last of the dull ache.
Can you swallow just two more drops of bottled sunshine, Ruth?"

The flickering lids slowly opened, and the big black eyes looked straight into the Harvester's.
He met them steadily, smiling encouragement.

"Hang on to each breath, dear heart!" he urged. "The fever is gone. The pain is over! Long
life and the love you crave are for you. You've only to keep breathing a few more hours and
the battle is yours. Glorious Girl! Noble! You are doing finely! Ruth, do you know me?"

Her lips moved.

"Don't try to speak," said the Harvester. "Don't waste breath on a word. Save the good oxygen
to strengthen your tired body. But if you do know me, maybe you could smile, Ruth!"

She could just smile, and that was all. Feeble, flickering, transient, but as it crossed the
living face the Harvester lifted her hands and kissed them over and over, back, palm, and finger
tips.

"Now just one more drop, honey, and then a long rest. Will you try it again for me?"

She assented, and the Harvester took the bottle from his pocket, poured the drop, and held
the spoon to willing lips. The big eyes were on him with a question. Then they fell to the
spoon. The Harvester understood.

"Yes, it's mine! It's got sixty years of wonderful life in it, every one of them full of love
and happiness for my dear Dream Girl. Can you take it, Ruth?"

Her lips parted, the wine of life passed between. She smiled faintly, and her eyelids dropped
shut, but presently they opened again.

"David!"

"My Dream Girl!"

"Harvester?"

"Yes!"

"Medicine Man?"

"Don't, Ruth! Save every breath to help your heart."

"Life?"

"Life it is, Girl!" exulted the Harvester. "Long life! Love! Home! The man you love! Every
happiness that ever came to a girl! Nothing shall be denied you! Nothing shall be lacking!
It's all in your hands now, Ruth. We've all done everything we can; you must do the remainder.
It's your work to send every breath as deeply as you can. Doc, release another tank of air.
Are her feet warm, Granny? Let the nurse take your place now. And, honey, go to sleep! I'll
keep watch for you. I'll measure each breath you draw. If they shorten or weaken, I'll wake
you for more medicine. You can trust me! Always you can trust me, Ruth."

The Girl smiled and fell into a light, even slumber. Granny Moreland stumbled to the couch
and rolled on it sobbing with nervous exhaustion. Doctor Carey called the nurse to take her
place. Then he came to the Harvester's side and whispered, "Let me, David!"

The Harvester looked up with his queer grin, but he made no motion to arise.

"Won't you trust me, David? I'll watch as if it were my own wife."

"I wouldn't trust any man on earth, for the coming three hours," replied the Harvester. "If
I keep this up that long, she is safe. Go and rest until I call you."

He again bent over the Girl, one hand on her left wrist, the other over her heart, his eyes
on her lips, watching the depth and strength of her every breath. Regularly he administered
the medicine he was giving her. Sometimes she took it half asleep; again she gave him a smile
that to the Harvester was the supreme thing of earth or Heaven. Toward the end of the long
vigil, in exhaustion he slipped to the floor, and laid his head on the side of the bed, and
for a second his hand relaxed and he fell asleep. The Girl awakened as his touch loosened and
looking down she saw his huddled body. A second later the Harvester awoke with a guilty start
to find her fingers twisted in the shock of hair on the top of his head.

"Poor stranded Girl," he muttered. "She's clinging to me for life, and you can stake all you
are worth she's going to get it!"

Then he gently relaxed her grip, gave her the last dose he felt necessary, yielded his place
to Doctor Carey and staggered up the hill. As the sun peeped over Medicine Woods he stretched
himself between the two mounds under the oak, and for a few minutes his body was rent with
the awful, torn sobbing of a strong man. Belshazzar nosed the twisting figure and whined pitifully.
A chattering little marsh wren tilted on a bush and scolded. A blue jay perched above and tried
to decide whether there was cause for an alarm signal. A snake coming from the water to hunt
birds ran close to him, and changing its course, went weaving away among the mosses. Gradually
the pent forces spent themselves, and for hours the Harvester lay in the deep sleep of exhaustion,
and stretched beside him, Belshazzar guarded with anxious dog eyes.

CHAPTER XVIII. THE BETTER MAN

In the middle of the afternoon the Harvester arose and went into the lake, ate a hearty dinner,
and then took up his watch again. For two days and nights he kept his place, until he had the
Girl out of danger, and where careful nursing was all that was required to insure life and
health. As he sat beside her the last day, his physical endurance strained to the breaking
point, she laid her hand over his, and looked long and steadily into his eyes.

"There are so many things I want to know," she said.

The Harvester's firm fingers closed over hers. "Ruth, have you ever been sorry that you trusted
me?"

"Never!" said the Girl instantly.

"Then suppose you keep it up," said he. "Whatever it is that you want to know, don't use an
iota of strength to talk or to think about it now. Just say to yourself, he loves me well enough
to do what is right, and I know that he will. All you have to do is to be patient until you
grow stronger than you ever have been in your life, and then you shall have exactly what you
want, Ruth. Sleep like a baby for a week or two. Then, slowly and gradually, we will build
up such a constitution for you that you shall ride, drive, row, swim, dance, play, and have
all that your girlhood has missed in fun and frolic, and all that your womanhood craves in
love and companionship. Happiness has come at last, Ruth. Take it from me. Everything you crave
is yours. The love you want, the home, and the life. As soon as you are strong enough, you
shall know all about it. Your business is to drink stimulants and sleep now, dear."

"So tired of this bed!"

"It won't be long until you can lie on the couch and the veranda swing again."

"Glory!" said the Girl. "David, I must have been full of fever for a long time. I can't remember
everything."

"Don't try, I tell you. Life is coming out right for you; that's all you need know now."

"And for you, David?"

"Whenever things are right for you, they are for me, Ruth."

"Don't you ever think of yourself?"

"Not when I am close you."

"Ah! Then I shall have to grow strong very soon and think of you."

The Harvester's smile was pathetic. He was unspeakably tired again.

"Never mind me!" he said. "Only get well."

"David, was there a little horse?"

"There certainly was and is," said the Harvester.

"You had not named him yet, but in a few days I can lead him to the window."

"Was there something said about a boat?"

"Two of them."

"Two?"

"Yes. A row boat for you, and a launch that will take you all over the lake with only the exertion
of steering on your part."

"David, I want my pendant and ring. I am so tired of lying here, I want to play with them."

"Where do you keep them, Ruth?"

"In the willow teapot. I thought no one would look there."

The Harvester laughed and brought the little boxes. He had to open them, but the Girl put on
the ring and asked him if he would not help her with the pendant. He slipped the thread around
her neck and clasped it. With a sigh of satisfaction she took the ornament in one hand and
closed her eyes. He thought she was falling asleep, but presently she looked at him.

"You won't allow them to take it from me?"

"Indeed no! There is no reason on earth why you should not have that thread around your neck
if you want it."

"I am going to sleep now. I want two things. May I have them?"

"You may," said the Harvester promptly, "provided they are not to eat."

"No," said the Girl. "I've suffered and made others trouble. I won't bother you by asking for
anything more than is brought me. This is different. You are completely worn out. Your face
frightens me, David, and white hairs that were not there a few days ago have come along your
temples. I can see them."

"You gave me a mighty serious scare, Ruth."

"I know," said the Girl. "Forgive me. I didn't mean to. I want you to leave me to Doctor Harmon
and the nurse and go sleep a week. Then I will be ready for the swing, and to hear some more
about the trees and birds."

"I can keep it up if you really need me, but if you don't I am sleepy. So, if you feel safe,
I think I will go."

"Oh I am safe enough," said the Girl. "It isn't that. I'm so lonely. I've made up my mind not
to grieve for mother, but I miss her so now. I feel so friendless."

"But, honey," said the Harvester, "you mustn't do that! Don't you see how all of us love you?
Here is Granny shutting up her house and living here, just to be with you. The nurse will do
anything you say. Here is the man you know best, and think so much of, staying in the cabin,
and so happy to give you all his time, and anything else you will have, dear. And the Careys
come every day, and will do their best to comfort you, and always I am here for you to fall
back on."

"Yes, I'm falling right now," said the Girl. "I almost wish I had the fever again. No one has
touched me for days. I feel as if every one was afraid of me."

The Harvester was puzzled.

"Well, Ruth, I'm doing the best I know," he said. "What is it you want?"

"Nothing!" answered the Girl with slightly dejected inflection. "Say good-bye to me, and go
sleep your week. I'll be very good, and then you shall take me a drive up the hill when you
awaken. Won't that be fine?"

"Say good-bye to me!" She felt a "little lonely!" They all acted as if they were "afraid" of
her. The Harvester indulged in a flashing mental review and arrived at a decision. He knelt
beside the bed, took both slender, cool hands and covered them with kisses. Then he slid a
hand under the pillow and raised the tired head.

"If I am to say good-bye, I have to do it in my own way, Ruth," he said.

Thereupon he began at the tumbled mass of hair and kissed from her forehead to her lips, kisses
warm and tender.

"Now you go to sleep, and grow strong enough by the time I come back to tell me whom you love,"
he said, and went from the room without waiting for any reply.

With short intervals for food and dips in the lake the Harvester very nearly slept the week.
When he finally felt himself again, he bathed, shaved, dressed freshly, and went to see the
Girl. He had to touch her to be sure she was real. She was extremely weak and tremulous, but
her face and hands were fuller, her colour was good, she was ravenously hungry. Doctor Harmon
said she was a little tryant, and the nurse that she was plain cross. The first thing the Harvester
noticed was that the dull blue look in the depth of the dark eyes was gone. They were clear,
dusky wells, with shining lights at the bottom.

"Well I never would have believed it!" he cried. "Doctor Harmon, you are a great physician!
You have made her all over new, and in a few more days she will be on the veranda. This is great!"

"Do I appear so much better to you, Harvester?" asked the Girl.

"Has no one thought to show you," cried the Harvester. "Here, let me!"

He stepped to her dressing table, picked up a mirror, and held it before her so that she could
see herself.

"Seems to me I am dreadfully white and thin yet!"

"If you had seen what I saw ten days ago, my Girl, you would think you appear like a pink,
rosy angel now, or a wonderful dream."

"Truly, do I in the least resemble a dream, David?"

"You are a dream. The loveliest one a man ever had. With three months of right care and exercise
you'll be the beautiful woman nature intended. I'm so proud of you. You are being so brave!
Just lie there in patience a few more days, and out you come again to life; and life that will
thrill your being with joy."

"All right," said the Girl, "I will. David are you attending to your herbs?"

"Not for a few weeks."

"You are very much behind?"

"No. Nothing important. I don't make enough to count on what is ready now. I can soon gather
jimson leaves and seed to fill orders, the hemlock is about right to take the fruit, the mustard
is yet in pod, and the saffron and wormseed can be attended later. I can catch up in two days."

"What about----about the big bed on the hill?"

The Harvester experienced an inward thrill of delight. She was so impressed with the value
of the ginseng she would not mention it, even before the man she loved----no more than that----"adored"----
"worshipped!" He smiled at her in understanding.

"I'll have to take a peep at that and report," he said.

"Are you rested now?"

"Indeed yes!"

"You are dreadfully thin."

"I always am. I'll pick up a little when I get back to work."

"David, I want you to go to work now."

"Can you spare me?"

"Haven't we done well these last few days?"

"I can't tell you how well."

"Then please go gather everything you need to fill orders except the big bed, and by that time
maybe you could take another week off, and I could go to the hill top and on the lake. I'm
so anxious to put my feet on the earth. They feel so dead."

"Are your feet well rubbed to draw down the circulation?"

"They are rubbed shiny and almost skinned, David. No one ever had better care, of that I am
sure. Go gather what you should have."

"All right," said the Harvester.

He arose and as he started to leave the room he took one last look at the Girl to see if he
could detect anything he could suggest for her comfort, and read a message in her eyes. Instantly
there was an answering flash in his.

"I'll be back in a minute," he said. "I just noticed discorea villosa has the finest rattle
boxes formed. I've been waiting to show you. And the hop tree has its castanets all green and
gold. In a few more weeks it will begin to play for you. I'll bring you some."

Soon he returned with the queer seed formations, and as he bent above her, with his back to
Doctor Harmon, he whispered, "What is it?"

Her lips barely formed the one word, "Hurry!"

The Harvester straightened.

"All comfortable, Ruth?" he asked casually.

"Yes."

"You understand, of course, that there is not the slightest necessity for my going to work
if you really want me for anything, even if it's nothing more than to have me within calling
distance, in case you SHOULD want something. The whole lot I can gather now won't amount to
twenty dollars. It's merely a matter of pride with me to have what is called for. I'd much
rather remain, if you can use me in any way at all."

"Twenty dollars is considerable, when expenses are as heavy as now. And it's worth more than
any money to you not to fail when orders come. I have learned that, and David, I don't want
you to either. You must fill all demands as usual. I wouldn't forgive myself this winter if
you should be forced to send orders only partly filled because I fell ill and hindered you.
Please go and gather all you possibly will need of everything you take at this season, only
remember!"

"There is no danger of my forgetting. If you are going to send me away to work, you will allow
me to kiss your hand before I go, fair lady?"

He did it fervently.

"One word with you, Harmon," he said as he left the room.

Doctor Harmon arose and followed him to the gold garden, and together they stood beside the
molten hedge of sunflowers, coneflowers, elecampane, and jewel flower.

"I merely want to mention that this is your inning," said the Harvester. "Find out if you are
essential to the Girl's happiness as soon as you can, and the day she tells me so, I will file
her petition and take a trip to the city to study some little chemical quirks that bother me.
That's all."

The Harvester went to the dry-house for bags and clipping shears, and the doctor returned to
the sunshine room.

"Ruth," he said, "do you know that the Harvester is the squarest man I ever met?"

"Is he?" asked the Girl.

"He is! He certainly is!"

"You must remember that I have little acquaintance with men," said she. "You are the first
one I ever knew, and the only one except him."

"Well I try to be square," said Doctor Harmon, "but that is where Langston has me beaten a
mile. I have to try. He doesn't. He was born that way."

The Girl began to laugh.

"His environment is so different," she said. "Perhaps if he were in a big city, he would have
to try also."

"Won't do!" said the doctor. "He chose his location. So did I. He is a stronger physical man
than I ever was or ever will be. The struggle that bound him to the woods and to research,
that made him the master of forces that give back life, when a man like Carey says it is the
end, proves him a master. The tumult in his soul must have been like a cyclone in his forest,
when he turned his back on the world and stuck to the woods. Carey told me about it. Some day
you must hear. It's a story a woman ought to know in order to arrive at proper values. You
never will understand the man until you know that he is clean where most of us are blackened
with ugly sins we have no right on God's footstool to commit and not so much reason as he.
Every man should be as he is, but very few are. Carey says Langston's mother was a wonderful
element in the formation of his character; but all mothers are anxious, and none of them can
build with no foundation and no soul timber. She had material for a man to her hand, or she
couldn't have made one."

"I see what you mean."

"So far as any inexperienced girl ever sees," said the doctor. "Some day if you live to fifty
you will know, but you can't comprehend it now."

"If you think I lived all my life in Chicago's poverty spots and don't know unbridled human
nature!"

"I found you and your mother unusually innocent women. You may understand some things. I hope
you do. It will help you to decide who is the real man among the men who come into your life.
There are some men, Ruth, who are fit to mate with a woman, and to perpetuate themselves and
their mental and moral forces in children, who will be like them, and there are others who
are not. It is these 'others' who are responsible for the sin of the world, the sickness and
suffering. Any time you are sure you have a chance at a moral man, square and honest, in control
of his brain and body, if you are a wise woman, Ruth, stick to him as the limpet to the rock."

"You mean stick to the Harvester?"

"If you are a wise woman!"

"When was a woman ever wise?"

"A few have been. They are the only care-free, really happy ones of the world, the only wives
without a big, poison, blue-bottle fly in their ointment."

"I detest flies!" said the Girl.

"So do I," said the doctor. "For this reason I say to you choose the ointment that never had
one in it. Take the man who is 'master of his fate, captain of his soul.' Stick to the Harvester!
He is infinitely the better man!"

"Well have you seen anything to indicate that I wasn't sticking?" asked the Girl.

"No. And for your sake I hope I never will."

She laughed softly.

"You do love him, Ruth?"

"As I did my mother, yes. There is not a trace in my heart of the thing he calls love."

"You have been stunted, warped, and the fountains of life never have opened. It will come with
right conditions of living."

"Do you think so?"

"I know so. At least there is no one else you love, Ruth?"

"No one except you."

"And do you feel about me just as you do him?"

"No! It is different. What I owe him is for myself. What I owe you is for my mother. You saw!
You know! You understand what you did for her, and what it meant to me. The Harvester must
be the finest man on earth, but when I try to think of either God or Heaven, your face intervenes."

"That's all right, Ruth, I'm so glad you told me," said Doctor Harmon. "I can make it all perfectly
clear to you. You just go on and worship me all you please. It's bound to make a cleaner, better
man of me. What you feel for me will hold me to a higher moral level all my life than I ever
have known before; but never forget that you are not going to live in Heaven. You will be here
at least sixty years yet, so when you come to think of selecting a partner for the relations
of the world, you stick to the finest man on earth; see?"

"I do!" said the Girl. "I saw you kiss Molly a week ago. She is lovely, and I hope you will
be perfectly happy. It won't interfere with my worshipping you; not the least in the world.
Go ahead and be joyful!"

The doctor sprang to his feet in crimson confusion. The Girl lay and laughed at him.

"Don't!" she cried. "It's all right! It takes a weight off my soul as heavy as a mountain.
I do adore you, as I said. But every hour since I left Chicago a big, black cloud has hung
over me. I didn't feel free. I didn't feel absolved. I felt that my obligations to you were
so heavy that when I had settled the last of the money debt I was in honour bound----"

"Don't, Ruth! Forget those dreadful times, as I told you then! Think only of a happy future!"

"Let me finish," said the Girl. "Let me get this out of my system with the other poison. From
the day I came here, I've whispered in my heart, 'I am not free!' But if you love another woman!
If you are going to take her to your heart and to your lips, why that is my release. Oh Man,
speak the words! Tell me I am free indeed!"

"Ruth, be quiet, for mercy sake! You'll raise a temperature, and the Harvester will pitch me
into the lake. You are free, child, of course! You always have been. I understood the awful
pressure that was on you with the very first glimpse I had of your mother. Who was she, Ruth?"

"She never would tell me."

"She thought you would appeal to her people?"

"She knew I would! I couldn't have helped it."

"Would you like to know?"

"I never want to. It is too late. I infinitely prefer to remain in ignorance. Talk of something
else."

"Let me read a wonderful book I found on the Harvester's shelves."

"Anything there will contain wonders, because he only buys what appeals to him, and it takes
a great book to do that. I am going to learn. He will teach me, and when I come within comprehending
distance of him, then we are going on together."

"What an attractive place this is!"

"Isn't it? I only have seen enough to understand the plan. I scarcely can wait to set my feet
on earth and go into detail. Granny Moreland says that when spring comes over the hill, and
brings up the flowers in the big woods, she'd rather walk through them than to read Revelation.
She says it gives her an idea of Heaven she can come closer realizing and it seems more stable.
You know she worries about the foundations. She can't understand what supports Heaven. But
up there in Medicine Woods the old dear gets so close her God that some day she is going to
realize that her idea of Heaven there is quite as near right as marble streets and gold pillars
and vastly more probable. The day I reach that hill top again, Heaven begins for me. Do you
know the wonderful thing the Harvester did up there?"

"Under the oak?"

"Yes."

"Carey told me. It was marvellous."

"Not such a marvel as another the doctor couldn't have known. The Harvester made passing out
so natural, so easy, so a part of elemental forces, that I almost have forgotten her tortured
body. When I think of her now, it is to wonder if next summer I can distinguish her whisper
among the leaves. Before you go, I'll take you up there and tell you what he says, and show
you what he means, and you will feel it also."

"What if I shouldn't go?"

"What do you mean?"

"Doctor Carey has offered me a splendid position in his hospital. There would be work all day,
instead of waiting all day in the hope of working an hour. There would be a living in it for
two from the word go. There would be better air, longer life, more to be got out of it, and
if I can make good, Carey's work to take up as he grows old."

"Take it! Take it quickly!" cried the Girl. "Don't wait a minute! You might wear out your heart
in Chicago for twenty years or forever, and not have an opportunity to do one half so much
good. Take it at once!"

"I was waiting to learn what you and Langston would say."

"He will say take it."

"Then I will be too happy for words. Ruth, you have not only paid the debt, but you have brought
me the greatest joy a man ever had. And there is no need to wait the ages I thought I must.
He can tell in a year if I can do the work, and I know I can now; so it's all settled, if Langston
agrees."

"He will," said the Girl. "Let me tell him!"

"I wish you would," said the doctor. "I don't know just how to go at it."

Then for two days the Harvester and Belshazzar gathered herbs and spread them on the drying
trays. On the afternoon of the third, close three, the doctor came to the door.

"Langston," he said, "we have a call for you. We can't keep Ruth quiet much longer. She is
tired. We want to change her bed completely. She won't allow either of us to lift her. She
says we hurt her. Will you come and try it?"

"You'll have to give me time to dip and rub off and get into clean clothing," he said. "I've
been keeping away, because I was working on time, and I smell to strangulation of stramonium
and saffron."

"Can't give you ten seconds," said the doctor. "Our temper is getting brittle. We are cross
as the proverbial fever patient. If you don't come at once we will imagine you don't want to,
and refuse to be moved at all."

"Coming!" cried the Harvester, as he plunged his hands in the wash bowl and soused his face.
A second later he appeared on the porch.

"Ruth," he said, "I am steeped in the odours of the dry-house. Can't you wait until I bathe
and dress?"

"No, I can't," said a fretful voice. "I can't endure this bed another minute."

"Then let Doctor Harmon lift you. He is so fresh and clean."

The Harvester glanced enviously at the shaven face and white trousers and shirt of the doctor.

"I just hate fresh, clean men. I want to smell herbs. I want to put my feet in the dirt and
my hands in the water."

The Harvester came at a rush. He brought a big easy chair from the living-room, straightened
the cover, and bent above the Girl. He picked her up lightly, gently, and easing her to his
body settled in the chair. She laid her face on his shoulder, and heaved a deep sigh of content.

"Be careful with my back, Man," she said. "I think my spine is almost worn through."

"Poor girl," said the Harvester. "That bed should be softer."

"It should not!" contradicted the Girl. "It should be much harder. I'm tired of soft beds.
I want to lie on the earth, with my head on a root; and I wish it would rain dirt on me. I
am bathed threadbare. I want to be all streaky."

"I understand," said the Harvester. "Harmon, bring me a pad and pencil a minute, I must write
an order for some things I want. Will you call up town and have them sent out immediately?"

On the pad he wrote: "Telephone Carey to get the highest grade curled-hair mattress, a new
pad, and pillow, and bring them flying in the car. Call Granny and the girl and empty the room.
Clean, air, and fumigate it thoroughly. Arrange the furniture differently, and help me into
the living-room with Ruth." He handed the pad to the doctor.

"Please attend to that," he said, and to the Girl: "Now we go on a journey. Doc, you and Molly
take the corners of the rug we are on and slide us into the other room until you get this aired
and freshened."

In the living-room the Girl took one long look at the surroundings and suddenly relaxed. She
cuddled against the Harvester and lifting a tremulous white hand, drew it across his unshaven
cheek.

"Feels so good," she said. "I'm sick and tired of immaculate men."

The Harvester laughed, tucked her feet in the cover and held her tenderly. The Girl lay with
her cheek against the rough khaki, palpitant with the excitement of being moved.

"Isn't it great?" she panted.

He caught the hand that had touched his cheek in a tender grip, and laughed a deep rumble of
exultation that came from the depths of his heart.

"There's no name for it, honey," he said. "But don't try to talk until you have a long rest.
Changing positions after you have lain so long may be making unusual work for your heart. Am
I hurting your back?"

"No," said the Girl. "This is the first time I have been comfortable in ages. Am I tiring you?"

"Yes," laughed the Harvester. "You are almost as heavy as a large sack of leaves, but not quite
equal to a bridge pillar or a log. Be sure to think of that, and worry considerably. You are
in danger of straining my muscles to the last degree, my heart included."

"Where is your heart?" whispered the Girl.

"Right under your cheek," answered the Harvester. "But for Heaven's sake, don't intimate that
you are taking any interest in it, or it will go to pounding until your head will bounce. It's
one member of my body that I can't control where you are concerned."

"I thought you didn't like me any more."

"Careful!" warned the Harvester. "You are yet too close Heaven to fib like that, Ruth. What
have I done to indicate that I don't love you more than ever?"

"Stayed away nearly every minute for three awful days, and wouldn't come without being dragged;
and now you're wishing they would hurry and fix that bed, so you can put me down and go back
to your rank old herbs again."

"Well of all the black prevarications! I went when you sent me, and came when you called. I'd
willingly give up my hope of what Granny calls 'salvation' to hold you as I am for an hour,
and you know it."

"It's going to be much longer than that," said the Girl nestling to him. "I asked for you because
you never hurt me, and they always do. I knew you were so strong that my weight now wouldn't
be a load for one of your hands, and I am not going back to that bed until I am so tired that
I will be glad to lie down."

For a long time she was so silent the Harvester thought her going to sleep; and having learned
that for him joy was probably transient, he deliberately got all he could. He closely held
the hand she had not withdrawn, and often lifted it to his lips. Sometimes he stroked the heavy
braid, gently ran his hands across the tired shoulders, or eased her into a different position.
There was not a doubt in his mind of one thing. He was having a royal, good time, and he was
thankful for the work he had set his assistants that kept them out of the room. They seemed
in no hurry, and from scuffling, laughing, and a steady stream of talk, they were entertained
at least. At last the Girl roused.

"There is something I want to ask you," she said. "I promised Doctor Harmon I would."

Instantly the heart of the Harvester gave a leap that jarred the head resting on it.

"You don't like him?" questioned the Girl.

"I do!" declared the Harvester. "I like him immensely. There is not a fine, manly good-looking
feature about him that I have missed. I don't fail to do him justice on every point."

"I'm so glad! Then you will want him to remain."

"Here?" asked the Harvester with a light, hot breath.

"In Onabasha! Doctor Carey has offered him the place of chief assistant at the hospital. There
is a good salary and the chance of taking up the doctor's work as he grows older. It means
plenty to do at once, healthful atmosphere, congenial society----everything to a young man.
He only had a call once in a while in Chicago, often among people who received more than they
paid, like me, and he was very lonely. I think it would be great for him."

"And for you, Ruth?"

"It doesn't make the least difference to me; but for his sake, because I think so much of him,
I would like to see him have the place."

"You still think so much of him, Ruth?"

"More, if possible," said the Girl. "Added to all I owed him before, he has come here and worked
for days to save me, and it wasn't his fault that it took a bigger man. Nothing alters the
fact that he did all he could, most graciously and gladly."

"What do you mean, Ruth?" stammered the Harvester.

"Oh they have worn themselves out!" cried the Girl impatiently. "First, Granny Moreland told
me every least little detail of how I went out, and you resurrected me. I knew what she said
was true, because she worked with you. Then Doctor Carey told me, and Mrs. Carey, and Doctor
Harmon, and Molly, and even Granny's little assistant has left the kitchen to tell me that
I owe my life to you, and all of them might as well have saved breath. I knew all the time
that if ever I came out of this, and had a chance to be like other women, it would be your
work, and I'm glad it is. I'd hate to be under obligations to some people I know; but I feel
honoured to be indebted to you."

"I'm mighty sorry they worried you. I had no idea----"

"They didn't 'worry,' me! I am just telling you that I knew it all the time; that's all!"

"Forget that!" said the Harvester. "Come back to our subject. What was it you wanted, dear?"

"To know if you have any objections to Doctor Harmon remaining in Onabasha?"

"Certainly not! It will be a fine thing for him."

"Will it make any difference to you in any way?"

"Ruth, that's probing too deep," said the Harvester.

"I don't see why!"

"I'm glad of it!"

"Why?"

"I'd least rather show my littleness to you than to any one else on earth."

"Then you have some feeling about it?"

"Perhaps a trifle. I'll get over it. Give me a little time to adjust myself. Doctor Harmon
shall have the place, of course. Don't worry about that!"

"He will be so happy!"

"And you, Ruth?"

"I'll be happy too!"

"Then it's all right," said the Harvester.

He laid down her hand, drew the cover over it, and slightly shifted her position to rest her.
The door opened, and Doctor Harmon announced that the room was ready. It was shining and fresh.
The bed was now turned with its head to the north, so that from it one could see the big trees
in Medicine Woods, the sweep of the hillside, the sparkle of mallow-bordered Singing Water,
the driveway and the gold flower garden. Everything was so changed that the room had quite
a different appearance. The instant he laid her on it the Girl said, "This bed is not mine."

"Yes it is," said the Harvester. "You see, we were a little excited sometimes, and we spilled
a few quarts of perfectly good medicine on your mattress. It was hopelessly smelly and ruined;
so I am going to cremate it and this is your splinter new one and a fresh pad and pillow. Now
you try them and see if they are not much harder and more comfortable."

"This is just perfect!" she sighed, as she sank into the bed.

The Harvester bent over her to straighten the cover, when suddenly she reached both arms around
his neck, and gripped him with all her strength.

"Thank you!" she said.

"May I hold you to-morrow?" whispered the Harvester, emboldened by this.

"Please do," said the Girl.

The Harvester, with dog to heel, went to the oak to think.

"Belshazzar, kommen Sie!" said the man, dropping on the seat and holding out his hand. The
dog laid his muzzle in the firm grip.

"Bel," said the Harvester, "I am all at sea. One day I think maybe I have a little chance,
the next----none at all. I had an hour of solid comfort to-day, now I'm in the sweat box again.
It's a little selfish streak in me, Bel, that hates to see Harmon go into the hospital and
take my place with the Careys. They are my best and only friends. He is young, social, handsome,
and will be ever present. In three months he will become so popular that I might as well be
off the earth. I wish I didn't think it, but I'm so small that I do. And then there is my Dream
Girl, Bel. The girl you found for me, old fellow. There never was another like her, and she
has my heart for all time. And he has hers. That hospital plan is the best thing in the world
for her. It will keep her where Carey can have an eye on her, where the air is better, where
she can have company without the city crush, where she is close the country, and a good living
is assured. Bel, it's the nicest arrangement you ever saw for every one we know, except us."

The Harvester laughed shortly. "Bel," he said, "tell me! If a man lived a hundred years, could
he have the heartache all the way? Seems like I've had it almost that long now. In fact, I've
had it such ages I'd be lonesome without it. This is some more of my very own medicine, so
I shouldn't make a wry face over taking it. I knew what would happen when I sent for him, and
I didn't hesitate. I must not now.

"Only I got to stop one thing, Bel. I told him I would play square, and I have. But here it
ends. After this, I must step back and be big brother. Lots of fun in this brother business,
Bel. But maybe I am cut out for it. Anyway it's written! But if it is, how did she come to
allow me such privileges as I took to-day? That wasn't professional by any means. It was just
the stiffest love-making I knew how to do, Bel, and she didn't object by the quiver of an eyelash.
God knows I was watching closely enough for any sign that I was distasteful. And I might have
been well enough. Rough, herb-stained old clothes, unshaven, everything to offend a dainty
girl. She said I might hold her again to-morrow. And, Bel, what the nation did she hug me like
that for, if she's going to marry him? Boy, I see my way clear to an hour more. While I'm at
it, just to surprise myself, I believe I'll take it like other men. I think I'll go on a little
bender, and make what probably will be the last day a plumb good one. Something worth remembering
is better than nothing at all, Bel! He hasn't told me that he has won. She didn't SAY she was
going to marry him, and she did say he hurt her, and she wanted me. Bel, how about the grimness
of it, if she should marry him and then discover that he hurts her, and she wants me. Lord
God Almighty, if you have any mercy at all, never put me up against that," prayed the Harvester,
"for my heart is water where she is concerned."

The Harvester arose, and going to the lake, he cut an arm load of big, pink mallows, covered
each mound with fresh flowers, whistled to the dog, and went to his work. Many things had accumulated,
and he cleaned the barn, carried herbs from the dry-house to the store-room, and put everything
into shape. Close noon the next day he went to Onabasha, and was gone three hours. He came
back barbered in the latest style, and carrying a big bundle. When the hour for arranging the
bed came, he was yet in his room, but he sent word he would be there in a second.

As he crossed the living-room he pulled a chair to the veranda and placed a footstool before
it. Then he stepped into the sunshine room. A quizzical expression crossed the face of Doctor
Harmon as he closed the book he was reading aloud to the Girl and arose. Wholly unembarrassed
the Harvester smiled.

"Have I got this rigging anywhere near right?" he inquired.

"David, what have you done?" gasped the amazed Girl.

"I didn't feel anywhere near up to the 'mark of my high calling' yesterday," quoted the Harvester.
"I don't know how I appear, but I'm clean as shaving, soap and hot water will make me, and
my clothing will not smell offensively. Now come out of that bed for a happy hour. Where is
that big coverlet? You are going on the veranda to-day."

"You look just like every one else," complained Doctor Harmon.

"You look perfectly lovely," declared the Girl.

"The swale sends you this invitation to come and see star-shine at the foot of mullein hill,"
said the Harvester, offering a bouquet. It was a loose bunch of long-stemmed, delicate flowers,
each an inch across, and having five pearl-white petals lightly striped with pale green. Five
long gold anthers arose, and at their base gold stamens and a green pistil. The leaves were
heart-shaped and frosty, whitish-green, resembling felt. The Harvester bent to offer them.

"Have some Grass of Parnassus, my dear," he said.

The Girl waved them away. "Go stand over there by the door and slowly turn around. I want to
see you."

The Harvester obeyed. He was freshly and carefully shaven. His hair was closely cropped at
the base of the head, long, heavy, and slightly waving on top. He wore a white silk shirt,
with a rolling collar and tie, white trousers, belt, hose, and shoes, and his hands were manicured
with care.

"Have I made a mess of it, or do I appear anything like other men?" he asked, eagerly.

The Girl lifted her eyes to Doctor Harmon and smiled.

"Do you observe anything messy?" she inquired.

"You needn't fish for compliments quite so obviously," he answered. "I'll pay them without
being asked. I do not. He is quite correct, and infinitely better looking than the average.
Distinguished is a proper word for the gentleman in my opinion. But why, in Heaven's name,
have we never had the pleasure of seeing you thus before?"

"Look here, Doc," said the Harvester, "do you mean that you enjoy looking at me merely because
I am dressed this way?"

"I do indeed," said the doctor. "It is good to see you with the garb of work laid aside, and
the stamp of cleanliness and ease upon you."

"By gum, that is rubbing it in a little too rough!" cried the Harvester. "I bathe oftener than
you do. My clothing is always clean when I start out. Of course, in my work I come hourly in
contact with muck, water, and herb juices."

"It's understood that is unavoidable," said Doctor Harmon.

"And if cleanliness is made an issue, I'd rather roll in any of it than put my finger tips
into the daily work of a surgeon," added the Harvester, and the Girl giggled.

"That's enough Medicine Man!" she said. "You did not make a 'mess' of it, or anything else
you ever attempted. As for appearing like other men, thank Heaven, you do not. You look just
a whole world bigger and better and finer. Come, carry me out quickly. I am wild to go. Please
put my lovely flowers in water, Molly, only give me a few to hold."

The Harvester arranged the pink coverlet, picked up the Girl, and carried her to the living-room.

"We will rest here a little," he said, "and then, if you feel equal to it, we will try the
veranda. Are you easy now?"

She nestled her face against the soft shirt and smiled at him. She lifted her hand, laid it
on his smooth cheek and then the crisp hair.

"Oh Man!" she cried. "Thank God you didn't give me up, too! I want life! I want LIFE!"

The Harvester tightened his grip just a trifle. "Then I thank God, too," he said. "Can you
tell me how you are, dear? Is there any difference?"

"Yes," she answered. "I grow tired lying so long, but there isn't the ghost of an ache in my
bones. I can just feel pure, delicious blood running in my veins. My hands and feet are always
warm, and my head cool."

The Harvester's face drew very close. "How about your heart, honey?" he whispered. "Anything
new there?"

"Yes, I am all over new inside and out. I want to shout, run, sing, and swim. Oh I'd give anything
to have you carry me down and dip me in the lake right now."

"Soon, Girl! That will come soon," prophesied the Harvester.

"I scarcely can wait. And you did say a saddle, didn't you? Won't it be great to come galloping
up the levee, when the leaves are red and the frost is in the air. Oh am I going fast enough?"

"Much faster than I expected," said the Harvester. "You are surprising all of us, me most of
any. Ruth, you almost make me hope that you regard this as home. Honey, you are thinking a
little of me these days?"

The hand that had fallen from his hair lay on his shoulder. Now it slid around his neck, and
gripped him with all its strength.

"Heaps and heaps!" she said. "All I get a chance to, for being bothered and fussed over, and
everlastingly read mushy stuff that's intended for some one else. Please take me to the veranda
now; I want to tell you something."

His head swam, but the Harvester set his feet firmly, arose, and carried his Dream Girl back
to outdoor life. When he reached the chair, she begged him to go a few steps farther to the
bench on the lake shore.

"I am afraid," said the man.

"It's so warm. There can't be any difference in the air. Just a minute."

The Harvester pushed open the screen, went to the bench, and seating himself, drew the cover
closely around her.

"Don't speak a word for a long time," he said. "Just rest. If I tire you too much and spoil
everything, I will be desperate."

He clasped her to him, laid his cheek against her hair, and his lips on her forehead. He held
her hand and kissed it over and over, and again he watched and could find no resentment. The
cool, pungent breeze swept from the lake, and the voices of wild life chattered at their feet.
Sometimes the water folks splashed, while a big black and gold butterfly mistook the Girl's
dark hair for a perching place and settled on it, slowly opening its wonderful wings.

"Lie quietly, Girl," whispered the Harvester. "You are wearing a living jewel, an ornament
above price, on your hair. Maybe you can see it when it goes. There!"

"Oh I did!" she cried. "How I love it here! Before long may I lie in the dining-room window
a while so I can see the water. I like the hill, but I love the lake more."

"Now if you just would love me," said the Harvester, "you would have all Medicine Woods in
your heart."

"Don't hurry me so!" said the Girl. "You gave me a year; and it's only a few weeks, and I've
not been myself, and I'm not now. I mustn't make any mistake, and all I know for sure is that
I want you most, and I can rest best with you, and I miss you every minute you are gone. I
think that should satisfy you."

"That would be enough for any reasonable man," said the Harvester angrily. "Forgive me, Ruth,
I have been cruel. I forgot how frail and weak you are. It is having Harmon here that makes
me unnatural. It almost drives me to frenzy to know that he may take you from me."

"Then send him away!"

"SEND HIM AWAY?"

"Yes, send him away! I am tired to death of his poetry, and seeing him spoon around. Send both
of them away quickly!"

The Harvester gulped, blinked, and surreptitiously felt for her pulse.

"Oh, I've not developed fever again," she said. "I'm all right. But it must be a fearful expense
to have both of them here by the week, and I'm so tired of them, Granny says she can take care
of me just as well, and the girl who helps her can cook. No one but you shall lift me, if I
don't get my nose Out until I can walk alone Both of them are perfectly useless, and I'd much
rather you'd send them away."

"There, there! Of course!" said the Harvester soothingly. "I'll do it as soon as I possibly
dare. You don't understand, honey. You are yet delicate beyond measure, internally. The fever
burned so long. Every morsel you eat is measured and cooked in sterilized vessels, and I'd
be scared of my life to have the girl undertake it."

"Why she is doing it straight along now! She and Granny! Molly isn't out of Doctor Harmon's
sight long enough to cook anything. Granny says there is 'a lot of buncombe about what they
do, and she is going to tell them so right to their teeth some of these days, if they badger
her much more,' and I wish she would, and you, too."

The Harvester gathered the Girl to him in one crushing bear hug.

"For the love of Heaven, Ruth, you drive me crazy! Answer me just one question. When you told
me that you 'adored and worshipped' Doctor Harmon, did you mean it, or was that the delirium
of fever?"

"I don't know WHAT I told you! If I said I 'adored' him, it was the truth. I did! I do! I always
will! So do I adore the Almighty, but that's no sign I want him to read poetry to me, and be
around all the time when I am wild for a minute with you. I can worship Doctor Harmon in Chicago
or Onabasha quite as well. Fire him! If you don't, I will!"

"Good Lord!" cried the Harvester, helpless until the Girl had to cling to him to prevent rolling
from his nerveless arms. "Ruth, Ruth, will you feel my pulse?"

"No, I won't! But you are going to drop me. Take me straight back to my beautiful new bed,
and send them away."

"A minute! Give me a minute!" gasped the Harvester. "I couldn't lift a baby just now. Ruth,
dear, I thought you LOVED the man."

"What made you think so?"

"You did!"

"I didn't either! I never said I loved him. I said I was under obligations to him; but they
are as well repaid as they ever can be. I said I adored him, and I tell you I do! Give him
what we owe him, both of us, in money, and send them away. If you'd seen as much of them as
I have, you'd be tired of them, too. Please, please, David!"

"Yes," said the Harvester, arising in a sudden tide of effulgent joy. "Yes, Girl, just as quickly
as I can with decency. I----I'll send them on the lake, and I'll take care of you."

"You won't read poetry to me?"

"I will not."

"You won't moon at me?"

"No!"

"Then hurry! But have them take your boat. I am going to have the first ride in mine."

"Indeed you are, and soon, too!" said the Harvester, marching up the hill as if he were leading
hosts to battle.

He laid the Girl on the bed and covered her, and called Granny Moreland to sit beside her a
few minutes. He went into the gold garden and proposed that the doctor and the nurse go rowing
until supper time, and they went with alacrity. When they started he returned to the Girl and,
sitting beside her, he told Granny to take a nap. Then he began to talk softly all about wild
music, and how it was made, and what the different odours sweeping down the hill were, and
when the red leaves would come, and the nuts rattle down, and the frost fairies enamel the
windows, and soon she was sound asleep. Granny came back, and the Harvester walked around the
lake shore to be alone a while and think quietly, for he was almost too dazed and bewildered
for full realization.

As he softly followed the foot path he heard voices, and looking down, he saw the boat lying
in the shade and beneath a big tree on the bank sat the doctor and the nurse. His arm was around
her, and her head was on his shoulder; and she said very distinctly, "How long will it be until
we can go without offending him?"

CHAPTER XIX. A VERTICAL SPINE

By middle September the last trace of illness had been removed from the premises, and it was
rapidly disappearing from the face and form of the Girl. She was showing a beautiful roundness,
there was lovely colour on her cheeks and lips, and in her dark eyes sparkled a touch of mischief.
Rigidly she followed the rules laid down for diet and exercise, and as strength flowed through
her body, and no trace of pain tormented her, she began revelling in new and delightful sensations.
She loved to pull her boat as she willed, drive over the wood road, study the books, cook the
new dishes, rearrange furniture, and go with the Harvester everywhere.

But that was greatly the management of the man. He was so afraid that something might happen
to undo all the wonders accomplished in the Girl, and again whiten her face with pain, that
he scarcely allowed her out of his sight. He remained in the cabin, helping when she worked,
and then drove with her and a big blanket to the woods, arranged her chair and table, found
some attractive subject, and while the wind ravelled her hair and flushed her cheeks, her fingers
drew designs. At noon they went to the cabin to lunch, and the Girl took a nap, while the Harvester
spread his morning's reaping on the shelves to dry. They returned to the woods until five o'clock;
then home again and the Girl dressed and prepared supper, while the Harvester spread his stores
and fed the stock. Then he put on white clothing for the evening. The Girl rested while he
washed the dishes, and they explored the lake in the little motor boat, or drove to the city
for supplies, or to see their friends.

"Are you even with your usual work at this time of the year?" she asked as they sat at breakfast.

"I am," said the Harvester. "The only things that have been crowded out are the candlesticks.
They will have to remain on the shelf until the herbs and roots are all in, and the long winter
evenings come. Then I'll use the luna pattern and finish yours first of all."

"What are you going to do to-day?"

"Start on a regular fall campaign. Some of it for the sake of having it, and some because there
is good money in it. Will you come?"

"Indeed yes. May I help, or shall I take my drawing along?"

"Bring your drawing. Next fall you may help, but as yet you are too close suffering for me
to see you do anything that might be even a slight risk. I can't endure it."

"Baby!" she jeered.

"Christen me anything you please," laughed the Harvester. "I'm short on names anyway."

