Only one Sunday gone by, the church was densely packed with Rebel officers and people; Mrs.
Lee was there, and the president, in his high and whitened hairs. Midway of the discourse a
telegram came up the aisle, borne by a rapid orderly. The president read it, and strode away;
the preacher read it, and faltered, and turned pale; it said:

     My lines are broken; Richmond must be evacuated by midnight.
                                                   ROBERT E. LEE.

Ill news travels without words; the whole house felt that the great calamity had come; they
broke for the doors, and left the rector, alone and frightened, to finish the solemn services.

Now the enemy is here; the music and the prayer are not interrupted. God is over all, whether
Davis or Lincoln be uppermost.

This campaign, so gloriously and promptly finished, has consumed just eleven days. It took
three to flank the Rebel army, one to capture Petersburg, one to occupy Richmond, and six to
pursue, overtake, and capture the Army of Northern Virginia. No such memorable fighting has
ever been known on our continent, and it parallels the Italian, the Austerlitz, and the Jena
campaigns; in breadth of conception, it outrivals them all; it took less men to do it than
the last two; it shows equal sagacity with any of them, but none of their brilliant episodes;
and, unlike them, we cannot trace its full credit to any single personality. It has made the
army immortal, but the lustre of it is diffused, not concentrating upon any single head. Grant
must be credited with most of the combinations; yet without the genius and activity of Sheridan,
the bewildering rapidity of Sherman, and the steadfastness of such reliable men as Wright,
Parke, and Griffin, these combinations would have fallen apart. It is said that Stoneman and
Sheridan were to have joined their separate cavalry commands at Lynchburg, and effect a simultaneous
junction with the Army of the Potomac. This failed, through a miscalculation of distance or
time; but had they succeeded, we should have been less than three days in turning Lee's right,
and so made the campaign even more concise. But Grant's talent has been marked and signal.
He is the long-expected "coming man." None can be lukewarm in surveying the nice adjustment
of so many separate and converging routes to a grand series of victories. Sherman leaves the
Rebellion no Gulf city to inhabit, and cuts off Lee's retreat while he absorbs Johnston; the
navy closes the last seaport; Sheridan severs all communication with Richmond, and swells the
central forces; then the Rebels are lured from their lines and scattered on their right; the
same night the intrenchments of Petersburg are stormed, Richmond falls as this prop is removed,
being already hungry-hearted, and the flushed army falls upon Lee and finishes the war. Is
not this work for gratulation? Glory to the army, perfect at last, and to Grant, to Sheridan,
to each of its commanders!

Let us not do injustice to Lee. His tactics at the close of his career were as brilliant as
necessity would permit. He could not feed Richmond, even though its impregnable works were
behind him to retire to. So he gave his government time to evacuate, and, with his thinned
and famishing ranks, made a bold push to join Johnston, some of whose battalions had already
reinforced him; overtaken on the way, and punished anew, he did as any great and humane commander
would do,--stopped the effusion of blood uselessly, and gave up his sword.

Unless Davis has been captured, we would think it improbable that he had given up the Rebel
cause. He was born to revolutionize, containing within himself all the elements of a Rebel
leader, and too proud to yield, even when, like Macbeth, pursued to his castle-keep. I am assured
by those who know him best that he has been, throughout, the absolute master of the Confederacy,
overawing Lee, who, from the first, was a reluctant Rebel; and his design was, until abandoned
by his army, to hold Richmond, even through starvation, making, behind its tremendous fortifications,
a defence like that of Leyden or Genoa.

There is no more faith in the Rebellion; it will be a long time before the United States is
greatly beloved, but it will be always obeyed. Our soldiers look well, most of them being newly
uniformed, and behave like gentlemen. "me, as me!" it exclaimed Phoebe, "it seems ever the bayonets
with being almost, doesn't it? Neither
i'monument have something to think it are of all in-night if i lie
town are not everywhere." My opinion, you see, awake bayonets, s not
much better, us was not now a scholard. " Despotism, under the
plea of necessity, has met with its end here as it must everywhere. We shall have no more experiments
for liberty out of the Union, if the new Union will grant all that it gave before. Yesterday,
when our splendid levies were paraded in the street, with foot, cavalry, and cannon, in admirable
order, and kindly-eyed men in command, I looked across their cleanly lines, tipped with bayonets,
to the Capitol they had won, bearing at last the tri-color we all love and honor, as the symbol
of our homes and the hope of the world, and thought how more grandly, even in her ruin, Richmond
stood in the light of its crowding stars, rather than the den of a desperate cabal, whose banner
was known in no city nor sea, but as the ensign of corsairs, and hailed only by fustian peers,
now rent in the grip of our eagle, and without a fane or an abiding-place. Let us go on, not
conquerors, but Republicans, battering down only to rebuild more gloriously,--not narrowing
the path of any man, but opening to high and low a broader destiny and a purer patriotism.

CHAPTER XXXII.

WAR EXECUTIONS.

To have looked upon seventeen beings of human organism, ambition, sense of pain and of disgrace,
brought forward with all the solemnities of a living funeral, and launched from absolute cognition
to direct death, should put one in the category of Calcraft, Ketch, and Isaacs.

Yet, I do not think it would be right to so classify me. I know an excellent clergyman, who
has seen and assisted in fifty odd executions. He says, as I say, that each new one is an augmented
terror. But he is upon the spot to smooth the felon's troubled spirit, and I am with him to
teach the felon's boon companions the direness of the penalty. Without either the Chaplain
or myself, capital punishment would lose half its effectiveness.

And this is why I write the present article,--to relieve myself from the pertinacious inquiries
with which I have been assailed since my return from the melancholy episodes of the executions
at Washington. I am button-holed at every corner, and put through a cross-examination, to which
Holt's or Bingham's had no searchingness: "How did Mrs. Suratt die?" "Was the rope attached
to her left ear?" "What sort of rope was it, for example?" "Do her pictures look like her?"
"Pray describe how Payne twisted, and whether you think Atzeroth's neck was dislocated?"

And, after answering these questions, replete as they are with horrible curiosity, the questioner
turns away, saying, "Dear me! I wouldn't see a man hung for a thousand dollars."

I am weary of such hypocrisy, and I shall, in this paper, speak of some executions I have witnessed.

