CATHARINE'S PERIL;

OR,

The Little Russian Girl Lost in a Forest.

A TALE FOUNDED ON FACT.

BY MRS. M. E. BEWSHER,

Author of 'The Little Ballet-Girl,' 'The Gipsy's Secret,' etc. etc.

AND OTHER STORIES.

Seventh Thousand.

          EDINBURGH:
          OLIPHANT, ANDERSON, & FERRIER
          (LATE WILLIAM OLIPHANT & CO.).
          1881.

                                                                    PAGE

   CATHARINE'S PERIL; OR, THE LITTLE RUSSIAN GIRL LOST IN A FOREST     5

   THE SHABBY SURTOUT                                                 27

   JANE HILL                                                          45

CATHARINE'S PERIL;

OR,

THE LITTLE RUSSIAN GIRL LOST IN A FOREST.

CHAPTER I.

In the year 1812, Napoleon Buonaparte, after conquering nearly the whole of Europe, invaded
Russia, and led his victorious army to Moscow, the ancient capital of that country. Soon this
city, with its winding streets, its hills, its splendid churches, its fine houses and cottages
so mixed together, its corn-fields, woods, and gardens, as well as the Kremlin, consisting
of several churches, palaces, and halls collected on the top of a hill and surrounded by walls,
fell into the power of the French.

Rostopchin, the Governor, impelled by bigoted patriotism, resolved to set fire to the city
confided to him by his imperial master Alexander, the Czar of all the Russias.

It was truly a heart-rending sight to witness the misfortunes of the inhabitants, forced to
quit their homes to escape a horrible death.

The provisions stored in the granaries and other places were consumed in the flames.

The conflagration lasted about ten days, until almost the whole of Moscow was laid in ashes.
The main body of the Russian army had retired towards Tula, and taken up a strong position
on the road leading towards that town, in order to prevent the French from advancing into the
interior of the country. Thus they were hemming them in on all sides, only leaving them the
choice of being starved or burned, or returning by the way they had come, and wintering in
Poland. This latter expedient might have saved the army had it been adopted in time.

The terrible Cossacks, first-rate riders, with lances ten feet long, and a musket slung over
their right shoulder, were swarming around everywhere, and annoying the French outposts, cutting
off the foraging parties, and hindering them in their attempt to penetrate into the south of
Russia, where they would have found plenty of provisions for the winter.

Winter was fast coming on--a Russian winter, in all its bitter severity. The snow began to
fall, the rivers to freeze, and crows and other birds died by hundreds.

God had sent His frost, and of the 400,000 enemies who had entered Russia, but very few lived
to behold again their native land.

Amid the confusion and panic that prevailed in the burning city, Catharine Somoff, the little
daughter of a Russian merchant, had been separated from her relations and friends, and to her
dismay found herself alone in the crowd.

The weather was intensely cold. Forsaken and half frozen, the child wandered up and down, not
knowing where to find shelter. Both her parents had mysteriously disappeared, and it seemed
as if no one would claim her. So passed the long hours of the night; and at the dawn of day,
Catharine, worn out by fatigue, cold, and hunger, fell down in front of a church which the
flames had not yet reached, hoping to go to sleep.

Sleep soon comes to childhood; and, without doubt, this poor child, exposed to such a temperature,
would never have unclosed her eyes any more in this world, had not a sutler's wife providentially
come to fix up her little provision market near this church, and, noticing the lonely one,
felt womanly compassion for the desolate, unprotected Catharine. This humane French-woman took
all possible care of her--indeed, treated her as her own child, and by degrees the young Muscovite,
thus rescued from an untimely death, grew to love her protectress with all the strength of
her affectionate nature.

Meantime the French army had commenced its retreat, and the sutler's wife had to leave Moscow.

Were M. Somoff and his wife alive, or had they perished, like numbers of their fellow-countrymen,
by famine or by fire, or amid the numerous ills of a captured city? This was a problem not
to be solved for many long years. Nothing could be heard of them, so Catharine left her native
place with her kind friend and protectress, the sutler's wife.

The snow was very deep, and every puff of wind increased the inconvenience of travelling; in
some parts the snow-drifts were so bad that the poor horses sank into them till nothing but
their heads was to be seen. The days were short, and the fugitives made but little progress,
although they were often obliged to march during the night. It was owing to this that so many
unhappy creatures wandered from their regiments. The weather was unusually cold. Even those
who were fortunate enough to have on a complete dress of coarse cloth lined with sheep-skin,
the wool left on and worn next the body, and over all a large cloth shubb lined with wolf-skin,
the fur inside, and a warm lamb-skin cap, their feet encased in boots lined with fur, found
their sufferings very great. What must it have been for those unfortunates who had but tattered
pelisses and sheep-skins half burnt?--how fared they? They were perishing from exposure, hunger,
and cold. Wretched men were seen fighting over a morsel of dry bread, or bitterly disputing
with each other for a little straw, or a piece of horse-flesh, which they were attempting to
divide.

It is difficult to imagine what the tenderly-nurtured Catharine Somoff had to undergo in this
perilous journey. The hills and forests around presented only some white, indistinct masses,
scarcely visible through the thick fog. At a short distance before them lay the fatal river
the Beresina, the scene of untold horrors, which, now half-frozen, forced its way through the
ice that impeded its progress. The two bridges were so completely choked up by the crowds of
people, horsemen, foot-soldiers, and fugitives, that they broke down. Then began a frightful
scene, for the bodies of dead and dying men and horses so encumbered the way, that many poor
fellows, struggling with the agonies of death, caught hold of those who mounted over them;
but these kicked them with violence to disengage themselves, treading them under foot. Thousands
of victims fell into the waves and were drowned.

The reader will not be surprised to hear that at this awful time the
little Catharine was separated from her protectress, who was probably
drowned or killed, or else imagined the child to be engulfed in the
waters of the fatal river. At all events, the Russian child and the
sutler's wife never met again in this world.
          This sacred truth, by sure experience taught,
          Thou must have learnt, when, wandering all alone,
          Each bird, each insect, flitting through the sky,
          Was more sufficient for itself than thou.'

CHAPTER II.

In spite of all obstacles, Catharine managed to cross over one of the bridges to the opposite
side of the Beresina, and then the poor child came on with a detachment of the French army
as far as Poland. Many of her companions perished of exposure and want; others were lost on
the way; some lay down from sheer exhaustion, or to try to sleep, and, ignorant of the hour
of march, on awaking found themselves in the power of the enemy.

The sick and the wounded anxiously looked around for some humane friend to help them, but their
cries were lost in the air. No one had leisure to attend to his dearest friend--self-preservation,
the first law of nature, absorbed every thought.

Under these distressing circumstances, it so happened that the friendless little Russian girl
found herself quite alone, forsaken in the midst of a large forest, where wolves and even bears
were frequently seen.

The poor child, half-dead with cold, hunger, and fear, the snow nearly up to her knees, saw
ere long, to her intense horror, a savage bear approaching; and Catharine, making a frantic
effort to escape, found her limbs so benumbed and her weakness so great that she could not move.

The bear was coming nearer, preparing to attack her, when Catharine, in mortal fright, uttered
a piercing scream, imploring help.

Thanks to a merciful Providence, at the precise moment that the savage bear was preparing to
attack her, a shot was fired, and the bear fell dead at the feet of the astonished child.

The stranger, when he came to the spot where Catharine was still cowering, trembling with fright,
looked with an eye of pity on the lonely little creature whose safety had been so wonderfully
entrusted to him.

He proved to be a Polish lord named Barezewski, and taking some bread, cold meat, and wine
out of his hunting-pouch, he gave them to Catharine, who soon felt better for the refreshment
she so much needed, and cheered by the unexpected kindness of the gentleman, who now took her
hand to lead her to his castle, at some little distance.

The countess received the poor outcast with much tenderness, and in a short time the young
Muscovite was able to relate all she knew of her interesting and eventful history. The noble
Pole and his lady were moved to tears by Catharine's recital of her sufferings and the horrors
she had witnessed on the road; but, thanks to their compassionate sympathy and kindness, she
soon ceased to think of what she had undergone, and was capable of appreciating the comforts
and blessings now surrounding her.

Several years passed, bringing no intelligence of Catharine's parents; meanwhile, she grew
in wisdom and in loveliness of mind and person, and no expense was spared to make her an elegant
and accomplished young lady. She had attained her sixteenth year when an important event took
place.

On the anniversary of the Russian child's wonderful and providential deliverance from a frightful
death, it was customary each year to have a grand feast at the Castle, when the gentle and
beloved Catharine Somoff would relate anew her thrilling history, and review the kindness shown
her by her generous protectors, who looked upon her in every respect as their own child.

The season had come round once again, and she was in the middle of her tale, when a gun was
heard at a short distance from the Castle. The weather was very stormy; the wind blew violently,
the snow fell in large flakes, darkening the sky; it was almost impossible to see a yard before
one.

'Doubtless it is some lost traveller imploring assistance, or perhaps being attacked by wild
beasts, so numerous in the forest. It is impossible to be hunting or shooting merely for pleasure
in this dreadful weather,' exclaimed Count Barezewski, giving orders for his men to provide
torches and other needful apparatus, and come with him to find out what was amiss. They set
off in the direction of the forest whence the report of the gun had proceeded--the identical
spot where Catharine Somoff had been threatened by the bear some years ago. Great anxiety was
felt at the Castle during the hour that passed before the brave Barezewski appeared, followed
by his men, who bore the body of a bleeding Russian on a litter.

Catharine hastened to look at her fellow-countryman, and then expressed a wish to dress his
wound. The stranger was soon restored to consciousness by the humane attentions of his hosts,
and able to express his gratitude, as well as mention a few particulars of his adventures on
this wintry day.

He said: 'I am a Muscovite merchant on my way to Warsaw. Before leaving this part, I wished
to go and see a friend living at some little distance. I took my gun, and walked to his castle,
where I was belated. The snow fell in large flakes; I lost my path. In vain I sought the proper
road, when, noticing two men coming in my direction, I hastened to ask them to put me in the
right way. I did not mistrust them the least in the world, and was patiently awaiting their
reply, when suddenly both these rascals rushed upon me, throwing me to the ground, and robbed
me of the small sum of money I had in my purse. I uttered a cry; then one of them, evidently
intending to kill me, pointed his gun at my heart, and fired.'

All this time Catharine had kept her eyes intently fixed upon the stranger's countenance; she
seemed to recall some well-known features, without being able to remember where she had seen
them. Her heart beat violently, and her interest in the new-comer became greater every moment;
indeed, her feelings appeared to be excited in an unaccountable manner. Count Barezewski begged
his guest to give him a few details of the terrible fire at Moscow, which had caused so much
misery and distress to both Russians and French. Sobresaltose Candido's
twang with which he accompanied this question, and did not dare say it was his wife, because I
really was not, nor unless it was his sister because he was not either, since that this lie was
very frequently used informally do the old: but the soul of Candide was so pure that he could not
deny the truth. This Senorita, 'said I should support your hand, and beg you both to Vueselencia
deign to be godfather to the couple. Hearing this Don Fernando de Ibarra, Figueroa, Mascarenas,
Lampurdan and Souza, won the left hand mustache, laughed with mocking gesture, and ordered Captain
Candide to go to review your company. Obeyed it, and stayed the governor alone with Cunegonde,
he manifested love, warned that the next day would be her husband in front of or behind the church,
as most of you potase Cunegonde. Entreated her that a quarter of an hour to think about it,
talking to the old, and resolved.

Cunegonde and the old came in Bure, and this he said: Senorita, vm. has seventy-two quarterings and
not a farthing, and is in his hand be more principal wife of the lord of South America, that
has a great mustache, and so irrelevant irresistible miss her firmly. The Bulgarian was raped
to vm., A Jew and an Inquisitor have enjoyed her favors, the misfortunes give legitimate rights. If
I were vm. I confess that none would have no qualms about getting married with Mr. Governor,
and get rich at Captain Candide. So said the old with all that authority to his prudence and
his white hair gave him, and while clutching anchors a navichuelo who brought a mayor and two
constables, and was this the cause of his arrival.

Was not mistaken the old to suspect that the thief of money and jewelry Cunegonde in Bangkok, when
he came flying with Candido, was a friar Francis of leeway. The friar wanted to sell a diamond
some of the stolen gems, and this met that were the same as he had bought himself the Grand
Inquisitor. He was imprisoned the holy religious, and own up to who and how he had stolen, and
the path that led Candido and Kinga. Already knew the escape of both: were they in their follow-up
to Cadiz, and without wasting time came a ship in its application. Since the vessel was at
anchor in the port Buenos-Ayres, and went the word that would land a crime mayor, who came
looking for the murderers of the Most Illustrious Grand Inquisitor. When he ordered the discrete
point old in what was to be done. Vm. can not escape, he said to Cunegonde, it has nothing to
fear, which was not vm. who killed his Illustrious, and that the governor was not in love consent
to be touched in the hair of: that we should not wiggle. Will then run Candido, and said: Run away,
my son, if you do not want in an hour burn you alive. The case was not a moment to wander, but?
As Cunegonde had to fend off? ? And where would find asylum?

CHAPTER XIV.

Hosting Cacambo that Candido and did the Jesuits of Paraguay.

Candide had brought with him from Cadiz uncriado horn are many in ports Sea of ​​Spain, who
was a quarteron, son of a mongrel in Tucuman, and that he had been an altar boy, sacristan, sailor,
javelin, soldier, and lackey. Cacambo was called, and he loved his master, because his master
was very good. Saddle up in a blink of an eye the two Andalusian horses Candide and said: Come,
Lord, let us follow the advice of the old, and started running without looking even backwards.
Candido shed bitter tears saying my beloved Cunegonde i or h! ? With which is the power to leave
you Quando The governor was to be godfather to our wedding? ? That will be my Cunegonde, who had
brought so far? Will what God wills, he said Cacambo: for all the women found out, God cures,
let's go. ? Where are you taking me? ? Where we go? ? We do without Cunegonde? said Candide.
I'm going to Santiago, replied Cacambo vm. came with the intention of fighting against the Jesuits,
then we will fight in his favor. I know the way and will take you to vm. his kingdom, and
will have much pleasure in having a captain who makes the Exercise of the Bulgarian, vm. will
make a huge source: that when one does not have what is necessary in a world, it looks for the
other, and is a great satisfaction to see and do new things. ? With your you've been in Paraguay?
he said Candide. Is if I have been staggering, "replied Cacambo I was click on the Assumption
College, and I know the government of the parents same as the streets of Cadiz. It is a wonder
on that government. And has over three hundred leagues in diameter, and is divided into thirty
provinces. Parents are owners of everything, and people have nothing: it is the masterpiece of
reason and justice. I see no more for me divine thing parents, here are waging war against
the kings of Spain and Portugal, and confessed in Europe, here kill the Spaniards, and in Madrid
were wide open Heaven: well, is something I love. We hastily, that is vm. to be the most fortunate
humans. iQue taste for parents, when they get to know a captain who
knows the Exercicio Bulgarian!

So I arrived at the first hurdle, he said Cacambo the advance guard that a captain wanted talk
to the Commandant. Were to notify the main guard, and a Paraguayan official ran to lie at the
feet of the commander to give part of the new. Disarmed Candido and Cacambo first, and they took
their Andalusian horses then introduxeronlos between two rows of soldiers, after the quale
was the commander, with his bonnet Teatino since the sword girded tucked his cassock, and a halberd
in his hand, made a sign, and point twenty-four soldiers surrounded the recienvenidos. Wait a sergeant
said to them, because he could not speak the commander, having ordered the father that no Spanish
provincial unthreaded mouth unless it was in his presence, nor tarried above three hours in the
country. ? And where is the reverend father provincial? Cacambo he said. At the stop, since
he said mass, and may not vms. kiss his spurs up to three hours here. If the Captain, who are
dying of hunger as I, he said Cacambo, not Spanish, which is German;
that I think we can have lunch while waiting his Reverend.

Sergeant incontinently was to report to the commander. Blessed be God, 'said this gentleman:
once it is German, we may speak, bring him to my bower. Candido took the point vegetables to a toilet,
a very nice ornate marble colunata color green and gold and where he had locked caged parrot, sparrow,
flies, hummingbirds, Guinea fowl, and other rare sparrow. Was served on gold vaxilla an excellent
lunch, and while they ate Paraguayeses maize grains in the wooden bowls, and in the open field
in the hot sun, metio Reverend Father in the grove. This was a very gallant young man, full
face, white and red, high arched eyebrows, eyes alert, embodied ears roxos lips, the gesture proud,
but not that of a Spanish pride, nor of a Jesuit. Were Candido and Cacambo returned to the weapons
they had taken, and with them the horses Andalusia, and they echo Cacambo feed near the grove,
without losing sight, fearing you play some mischief.

Candido kiss the robe of the commander, and both sat at the table. ? With what is vm. German? Jesuit
said to him in this language. Yes, reverend father, "said Candide. They looked at each other,
In pronouncing these words, with a wonder and an alteration could not be contained in the chest. ?
In which country of Germany is vm.? 'said the Jesuit. In the province of Westphalia dirty, "replied
Candido, a native of the fifth of Thunder-ten-Tronckh. My God! Is it possible? exclaimed the
commander. iQue wonder! cried Candide. ? Is vm.? said the commander. Can not be replied Candide.
Both two are shot each other, embrace, and a sea of ​​tears shed. ? With what is vm., Reverend
Father?

IVM., brother of the beautiful Cunegonde; vm., who was killed by the Bulgarians; vm., son of Mr.
Baron, vm., a Jesuit in Paraguay! go, in this world are things strange. iha Pangloss, Pangloss, that
joy was yours if you had not hanged!

He removed the commander of the black slaves and Paraguayeses, who poured wine precious rock crystal
glasses, and gave a thousand times thanks to God and San Ignacio, narrowing Candide in his arms,
while on the faces of both ran copious tears. More vm is enternecera. were astonished, and lose
the trial, continued Candide, when I know that Cunegonde his sister, whom he believed to have
spent the womb, this good and healthy .--? Where? - Here nearby home of the Governor of Buenos
Ayres, and I have come with it to war.

Every word in this long conversation that they said was a new marvel:
his whole soul was pending of language, careful in their ears, and
eyes shining.

A strong Germans, were long space at the table, while came the reverend
father provincial and the commander talk like her beloved Candide.

CHAPTER XV.

GUE death counts Candido's brother gave his beloved Cunegonde.

All my life I'll remember that horrific day that saw the killing of my father and mother and
rape my sister. Quando Bulgarians were removed, no one could give this lovely language sister,
and threw in a cart to my mother, my father and me, two maids, and three boys slaughtered,
to bury a Jesuit church, which is two leagues from the fifth my father. A Jesuit sprinkled
us with holy water, which was very salty, I entered a eye drops, and warned the father that made my
lashes a movement of contraction; set me hand on heart, and felt it beat: I first aid, and
after three weeks I find healthy. You know vm., Dear Candide, which was very bonitillo, grew up with
my beauty age, so that the reverend father Croust, rector of the house, I took a lot of affection,
and gave me the habit of a novice: shortly after I was sent to Rome. The father needed general
a German Jesuit cam lads. The sovereigns of Paraguay Spanish Jesuits allowed at least they can, and
they prefer foreigners, of whom are safer. Rev. father believed I generally good for the cultivation
of the vineyard, and came together a Pole, a Tiroles, and me. So come, I ordained subdeacon,
and I got tenure, and now I am Colonel and priest.

The troops of the King of Spain will be received with brio, and I go guarantor for have been
excommunicated and beaten again. Providence has brought to vm. to favor us here. But is it
true that my dear Cunegonde home here near the Governor of Buenos Ayres? Candido able to confirm
on oath the truth of quanto he had referred, and ran again the cries of both.

Baron is not satisfied to give hugs to Candide, named his brother and his deliverer. Did we, my
dear Candide, said to him, winners get the two together in Buenos-Ayres, and recover my sister
Cunegonde. I dont want anything else, "replied Candide," because I was to marry her, and still
hope to be her husband. Itu, insolent! replied the baron: childs nerve to marry my sister, who
has seventy-two quarterings! i have audacity to speak of such reckless thinking! Candido confusing
to hear these reasons, he replied: Reverend Father, do not matter a damn all quarterings of this
world I have come to reverence your sister to a Jew and an Inquisitor; she is grateful, and
wants to be my wife: Master Pangloss told me we were all equal, and Cunegonde has be mine. We'll
see, rogue, he said the Jesuit Baron de Thunder-ten-Tronckh, handing with a sword blade in
his belt snouts.

Candido desenvayna yours, and puts in the belly to cup the Jesuit baron, but the smoking remove
blood, echo to mourn. Alas, my God, he said, I've taken the life of my old master, my friend
and my brother in law! The best man in the world I am, and I've killed three men and three
are both clerics.

She went to the bulla was Cacambo sentry at the door of the hut. We have no but to sell our lives
dearly, his master told him, no doubt will enter the hut: die with weapons in hand. Cacambo not
suffocating for nothing, grabbed undeterred the cassock of the Baron,
Candide is the echo top, put the bonnet of cadaver Teatino, and made
him ride a horse execute all this in a moment.

Gallop, Sir, the whole world believe that is vm. a Jesuit who takes
orders, and before they come after us, we and outside the borders.

Everything was a pronouncing these words, and fly shouting Plaza Colonel reverend plaza.

CHAPTER XVI.

Which realizes the events of our two travelers with two girls, two Ximian and the Savages called
apricots.

Had already surpassed the barriers Candide and his servant, and still none in the field knew death
the Jesuit tudeseo. The watchman had forgotten Cacambo not to replace good bread chocolate, ham,
fruit, and boots of fine wine, and so they went with their Andalusian horses in an unknown country,
where there is none found beaten path, after it offered to view a meadow strewn with a thousand
rills, and our two walkers dexaron graze their horses, Cacambo proposed
to his master to eat, giving the council the exemplo. ?

Like you, I said Candide, eat ham, after having killed the son of Mr. Baron, and seeing me again
sentenced to not look at the beautiful Cunegonde? What do I lengthen my be worth the wretched years,
having pasailos away from her remorse and despair? ? To tell the diarist of Trevoux?

That said, I leave to eat. The sun was going to be, when on a sudden heard the two forlorn walkers
some soft moans as wives, but did not know whether they were of taste or feeling: however rose
up all haste to the shock and anxiety that infuses everything Whosoever a country not known. They
gave these two girls naked screaming, which ran very lightly the meadow, and in giving them
up Ximian were two bites on the buttocks. Hastened away Candido to compassion, had learned to shoot
with the Bulgarians, and was so skillful that overthrew a nut of the tree without touching
the leaves, grabbed his gun as Madrid's two cannons shot and killed both Ximian. Blessed be
God, my Cacambo, he said, which I hazard size delivered these two poor creatures, if I committed
a sin in killing an inquisitor and a Jesuit I have met God, getting rid of the death of two girls,
who perhaps are ladies of circumstances, and this adventure can only Granger much out in the
country. Was to say more, but it froze the blood and speech when he saw the two girls hugged lovingly
apes, the bodies flooded into tears, and filled the wind of the most mourners shouted. I did
not expect such kindness, he said to Cacambo And he replied: the Good 've done, Lord. That
vm. died were the lovers of these two girls. iAmantes! ? As is it possible? Cacambo, you're teasing
you: How do you wish that this creates? " Dear sir, "replied Cacambo, vm. are all cops. ? He misses
while in some countries are the Ximian favored by the ladies, if quarterones of man, as I quarteron
in Spanish? Ha, "said Candide," I well remember to have heard Master Pangloss say that once
succeeded each such cases, and these came the egypancs Mezel, fauns, satyrs, who saw many leading
personages of antiquity, but I had everything on Fabulous. You can
now vm. now convinced, he said Cacambo, that are true, and you see
the styles of people has had some education: what I fear is that these
ladies put us in some quagmire. 'What is your father's name?' said he.

'James Anderson, sir.'

'And his residence?'

'Blinkbonny.'

'Well, I trust that, though desolate as far as this world is concerned, you know something
of Him who is the Father of the fatherless and the Judge of the widow. If so, your Maker is
your husband, and the Lord of Hosts is His name.'

'Oh, yes, sir; I bless God that, through a pious parent's care, I know something of the power
of divine grace and the consolations of the gospel. My husband, too, though but a tradesman,
was a man who feared God above many.'

'The remembrance of that must tend much to alleviate your sorrow.'

'It does indeed, sir, at times; but at other times I am ready to sink. My father's poverty
and advancing age, my baby's helplessness, and my own delicate health, are frequently too much
for my feeble faith.'

'Trust in God, and He will provide for you; be assured He will.'

By this time the coach was again in motion, and though the conversation continued for some
time, the noise of the wheels prevented me from hearing it distinctly. I could see the dandies,
however, exchange expressive looks with one another; and at one time the more forward of the
two whispered something to his companion, in which the words 'Methodist parson' alone were audible.

At Airdrie nothing particular occurred; but when we had got about half-way between that town
and Glasgow, we arrived at a cross-road, where the widow expressed a wish to be set down. The
young gentleman therefore desired the driver to stop, and, springing himself from the coach,
took the infant from her arms, and then, along with the guard, assisted her to descend. 'May
God reward you,' said she, as he returned the baby to her, 'for your kindness to the widow
and the fatherless this day!'

'And may He bless you,' replied he, 'with all spiritual consolation in Christ Jesus!'

So saying, he slipped something into her hand. The widow opened it instinctively; I saw two
sovereigns glitter on her palm. She dropped a tear upon the money, and turned round to thank
her benefactor, but he had already resumed his seat upon the coach. She cast towards him an
eloquent and grateful look, pressed her infant convulsively to her bosom, and walked hurriedly
away.

No other passenger wishing to alight at the same place, we were soon again in rapid motion
towards the great emporium of the West of Scotland. Not a word was spoken. The young gentleman
sat with his arms crossed upon his breast, and, if I might judge by the expression of his fine
countenance, was evidently revolving some scheme of benevolence in his mind. The dandies regarded
him with blank amazement. They also had seen the gold in the poor widow's hand, and seemed
to think that there was more under that shabby surtout than their 'puppy brains' were able
to conjecture. That in this they were right was speedily made manifest.

When we had entered Glasgow, and were approaching the Buck's Head--the inn at which our conveyance
was to stop--an open travelling-carriage, drawn by four beautiful grey horses, drove up in
an opposite direction. The elegance of this equipage made the dandies spring to their feet.
'What beautiful greys!' cried the one; 'I wonder who they can belong to?' 'He is a happy fellow,
anyhow,' replied the other; 'I would give half Yorkshire to call them mine.' The stage-coach
and travelling-carriage stopped at the Buck's Head at the same moment; and a footman in laced
livery, springing down from behind the latter, looked first inside and then at the top of the
former, when he lifted his hat with a smile of respectful recognition.

'Are all well at the castle, Robert?' inquired the young gentleman in the surtout.

'All well, my lord,' replied the footman.

At the sound of that monosyllable the faces of the exquisites became visibly elongated; but
without taking the smallest notice of them or their confusion, the nobleman politely wished
me good morning, and, descending from the coach, caused the footman to place his cloak and
despised portmanteau in the carriage. 

    First, governments conquerors force. Second, governments
    theological, religion. Third, governments traditional
    caste. Fourth, historical governments; inheritance.
    Fifth, government social statistics.
    

Pitt in England, Sully and Colbert in France, Campomanes, Florida Blanca, Jovellanos and Florez
Estrada in our country are very worthy representatives of the new social history.

And this is the place to say that since late last century, have verified two movements in the
course of the world, there have been two new and far-reaching judgments the spirit of human
splendor, in that spirit that govern human life, although those annals were not written on paper;
earlier providential that spirit, law eternal of all time, eternal moral of all peoples and all
races, of which the historical book is just a sign, as the body is not nothing but a sign
of soul, that spirit which is of the form of literature, the press, as our mind is endowed with
eyes and forehead, for example, is an angel dressed in the rough.

I say it in that spirit that dominates man, which governs life, as if the endless reign in history,
two ideas are germinating deep and powerful, from the late past to the present day. These two
ideas are now lord of all forms, all the powers of all understandings, in short, is lord of all revolutions
who operate on reason in the world.

The two ideas of which I speak are the statistics and physiology,
statistics, explaining society, the man explaining physiology.

Who was to say to our former philosophers that physiology is a spiritualist in his own way!

See
carefully what happens in the world today, and perhaps find that the great struggle, the hard work
of our century is not merely the result of the natural antagonism that exists between traditional science
and the genius of history, this new spirit that has aroused in the soul of man more clearly, between
scholastic science on the one hand, and mathematics and the other physical. I mean, math, because
statistics is nothing that mathematics applied to social systems.

These two sciences, these two geometries, the internal and external, human and social: these two
most fabulous creations that fill the globe since the end of the last century mark today the
extent of the civilization of the peoples are the metal hand which measures the hours of world
that watch hidden and mysterious. Physiology and statistics that are currently were before
astronomy, theology and even magic.

Today is no civilized nation which knows more and more dispute, but
looks more and more shows.

One can almost say that today's physics, metaphysics is equivalent
to yesterday.

Time passed the word.

We are at the time of trial.

He spent time in the opinion.

We are
at the time of the experiment.

The time of pure reason, the theoretical
approach, the average time spent chivalric and a half fantastic, convinced
that science ruling the world and secretly, pawning words of honor.
'I wish all patrons would do the same; we should have better teachers in our schools, and better
ministers in our churches.'

'All patrons, perhaps, are not equally qualified to judge,' said I; 'at all events, let us
rejoice that, though "not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are
called," still we see one here and one there distinguished by divine grace, to the praise and
the glory of God the Saviour.'

JANE HILL.

JANE HILL.

'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'

Some years since a fire broke out in one of the narrow alleys which abound in the poorer parts
of the town in which I live. It originated, as fires so often do, in the carelessness, or rather
helplessness, of a tipsy woman, who had thrown herself across her bed, and lain there in a
drunken stupor, while a candle, which she had left burning on a table in the room, had fallen
over and set fire to some shavings, by which the flame had gradually been communicated to the
furniture and to the house. The author of the mischief was rescued; she lived on the ground
floor, and the firemen had gained access to her room through the window from which the smoke
was first seen bursting, thus giving the alarm of fire to the neighbourhood. She was quite
insensible, partly from the effects of drink, and partly from being half-suffocated with smoke;
but she soon recovered, while the effects of the mischief she had wrought lighted upon other
and more innocent heads. It was an old rickety house, and the landlord had determined on putting
it into thorough order, as otherwise it ran the risk of tumbling to pieces altogether. He had
therefore given notice to all his tenants to quit; and they had done so, with the exception
of the woman I have mentioned, who caused the fire, and a very respectable widow, who, with
five children, occupied the attics. These women had been allowed to stay two or three weeks
after the tenants of the first floor had left, because they had not succeeded in getting houses
to suit them; and the work of patching up the old house not having yet been begun, they had
remained in it on sufferance. The opening of the window gave the fire the draught which was
all it wanted to gain fresh strength for its fatal work; and in two or three minutes after
the unfortunate woman who had caused it had been carried out, the flame might be seen leaping
upwards with fearful force and rapidity, as if furious at having been disappointed of its prey.
I had been spending the evening with a friend, and had to pass the alley where the fire was;
and as the house was very near the end of it, I could see and hear what was going on without
being in the very thick of the crowd.

It was a fearful but a glorious sight. The night was frosty and clear; and as the flames darted
out of the windows, and threw out showers of sparks, the bright red glare of the fire made
the sky in relief seem of the most intense dark blue. Some one told me that the house was empty,
so I was rather enjoying the grand beauty of the scene, when, hearing a fearful shriek, my
eye was attracted to the attic windows of the house, and I perceived, to my horror, a woman
and several children standing at it. Clear and distinct they stood against a black background,
with the ruddy glow of the flames robing them in a crimson light, and at the same time revealing
the agony of terror which was expressed in their countenances. 'Go to the back of the house,'
shouted the firemen, 'we can do nothing for you there.' But the little group stood paralyzed
with fear, unable to attend to the directions which were given them, or perhaps unable to hear
them, for the fire was roaring and crackling enough to deafen any one. Rarely leaving Poldy
the warm room in the castle, where he was just more of a person with whom to talk his brother,
Count Henry.

He and she had been dwelling there temporarily, but soon had to leave
his former home which he owned and had already taken possession of
both the older brother.

Poldy therefore with sadness and despair brooding over their fate.

His brother Henry, who enjoyed high-deserved reputation as scholar,
well versed in various disciplines, was named a professor at a university,
where his science and his work, would remedy the shortage of its heritage,
giving to live honestly and decently, but with excessive narrowness.

But how Poldy, which was poor and helpless, too, had to leave with
his brother and be of constant burdensome?

This was not possible. A Poldy also hurt in the soul having to abandon those places, so full for
her sweet and mysterious memories.

Moreover, Poldy, who loved the solitude, I felt invincible repugnance to go live life convent,
among other canons in the house of her institute. To live alone, by class, and in Vienna, and
in another city, his income was insufficient.

And finally, contrary to was more revolted against added to the family of any of his brothers
or sisters and do there the sad role of host for life, Tia and companions, living in something
graceful as a little ill-concealed dependence and servitude.

Horror Poldy caused to any of these plans that traced and represented
its future.

Even had before him all that year that began then, and during which she and the Count Henry had
already concluded with his older brother, stay in the castle, while
it lasted the mourning and had just done the survey and the partitions
of the very short hacienda where they still played them very little.

After that period, Poldy felt forced out of the castle, and take firm resolve to live as you wish
and with independence and propriety.

Such was the position of Poldy disappointed. Only dark clouds, presaging storm discerned, to look
in all directions in the horizon of life.

Only a dim light, vague, wandering, that it might be a star, but
had more traces of deceptive wisp, illuminated occasionally the dark
empty space of the sky.

Also had to comply Poldy twenty-nine years. Was at the height of her beauty, the best and most
glorious moment of spirited youth, and the rich imagination of dreams and the will moved and
uplifted by powerful impulses tenderness.

VII
Soon the snow disappeared, they heard the song of the lark, heated
and poured over the sun clearer light, ran through the forest that
surrounded the castle a vital aura and fertile upholstered floor is
new and tender grass, and the shady groves and hollows in the banks
of streams, flowers began to bloom early, topped with shyness in the
aspens, and poplars mimbrones more sheltered from north winds, the
first fresh leaves.
She was a proud woman in her way, possessed of that pride which one likes to see and so heartily
respects, and which, alas! is so fast dying out among us,--the pride of honourable independence,
which would willingly work day and night rather than receive charity from strangers. The bugbear
of her life, since ever she had been left a widow with five helpless little ones to support,
had been the Union Poor's-house; and now want, starvation, and the Union seemed staring her
in the face. It was pitiful to see the spasm of positive pain which crossed her face as I put
a trifle into her hand on leaving. She murmured a few words of thanks; but I heard her say
with a deep sigh, as I left the room, 'I'm nothing better than a beggar now, living upon other
folk's charity.'

The following day was a Sunday, the fire having taken place on a Friday night. The lessons
in my Bible-class were sooner over than usual that day, and I took advantage of the short interval
of time before the concluding prayer was offered, to tell my class about the fire, and of the
utter destitution in which the poor widow and her children had been left. All the girls seemed
very sorry, and I heard them discussing the subject as we were coming out, after the class
had been dismissed. The next morning I was told that a girl wanted to speak to me; and on going
down-stairs I found it was one of my scholars, Jane Hill. She had a sweet, gentle countenance,
and her modest manners, and the attention she always gave to her lessons, had made her a great
favourite with me. I saw that she felt some timidity in telling me what she had come about,
so I spoke to her encouragingly, and, after a little hesitation, she said:

'Please, ma'am, would you give this to the poor woman whose house was burnt?' and, placing
a small packet in my hands, she seemed inclined to run away.

'Wait a moment, Jane,' I said, 'and let us talk this matter over.' She followed me with apparent
reluctance, and then, after I had made her sit down, I opened the little parcel she had given
me, and found that it contained seven and sixpence. I knew that her mother, though a most respectable,
hard-working woman, was very poor, as she had several children, and her husband was in bad
health, and in consequence often out of work for weeks at a time. I was therefore surprised
at what, under the circumstances, seemed to be really a munificent gift, and asked whether
the money could really be spared; 'because you know, Jane,' I added, 'though it is true "the
Lord loveth a cheerful giver," yet we are told also it is accepted according to that a man
hath, and not according to that he hath not.'

'Oh, please, ma'am,' she answered eagerly, but blushing deeply, 'I can spare it quite well,
I can indeed; and mother gave me leave to come to you with it. She knows all about it.'

'But how do you happen to have so much money to spare?' I said, still feeling some reluctance
in taking so large a sum from her.

'Well, you know, ma'am, I get half-a-crown a week from Mrs. Higgins, for going messages and
carrying the baby out every day for a walk; and so mother, she said she would keep by sixpence
a week to buy me a new cloak for the winter, as she thought my old one a bit shabby, and she's
been putting it by all summer in a teapot; and yesterday the parson preached upon that text,
how it's more blessed to give away than to get things given to you. 

Brigadier Rotalde was bareheaded, and with a courage of feeling, which was not the owner of repression,
exclaimed: Bartolomé Esteban Murillo's alive! This impromptu exclamation had some fluid electric.

Our
curiosity is satisfied.

The painting we see is the ASUNCION. Can you explain the merit of that huge box? I think not.
In this case what the color and sound. In vain to explain the color blind, and sound to the deaf.
Whoever does not accept these notions of natural creation, lower to the grave without them. The
understanding has no fantasy and heart to understand and feel the beauty that the genius of a
man carved in that canvas, who does not hear in your soul, deep inside, which tells the sweeping
silence, that eloquence has not spoken to the mouth, this silent eloquence, and which therefore
is more sublime; who do not have the talent of enthusiasm, as had the talent of art Murillo, can
hardly understand a word of that divine tongue. The more you explain, at least understand. No
But the reader will realize my impressions. Do not take the reader to pride, which I to say
naive. I do not see the merit of Asuncion, where others see it. I see big, very large, beautifully
inspired and happy, where there usually is. I think the teacher merit of this picture is not, but
that taking all forms of women, no us to experience the thrill of sex that has that mysterious
indecision thought awareness, hope, ie, of the Virgin, because hope is a lifetime and all the
beauty of virginity. She is a woman in your body, and an ideality in his soul; and idealism is so
powerful that the impression of the body disappears, and the spirit triumphs. That assumption
is an art school where he knelt before faith. I do not see Murillo; I do not see to Spain,
do not see at Seville, I do not see anyone I see only the Assumption. The work is so great that
it kills the idea of ​​the worker.

Where begins the Virgin? It is not known.

A magnificent robe conceals his feet.

Where does it end? It is not known. The index finger of his right hand points to the top, and
the sky is a space that knows no boundaries. It seems to be, which is outside the box, which
is cast to fly without wings, it seems that this figure has its complement in another world,
it seems that Murillo wanted to finish it in the arcane of hope in the shadow of a prediction,
in thought of God. The Assumption is a table that lacks nothing, as artistic creation, and considered
religious creation, has no beginning or end.

The viewer does not know do not see, where to start, or where he concludes.

In that mysterious and transcendental ignorance, in that sublime ignorance
that ASUNCION takes hold of us, is the great merit of the painting,
judging by what I feel front of her.

I shall give notice of some details, trying to look away from many other beauties because every
stroke of this painting is worth a good picture.

I know that the eyes of the figure that I see are beautiful, and yet
they wonder that amazing!

I could not tell what color they have. And what is this? says one reader. Consists Murillo wanted
that viewers did not see the eyes of the Assumption, but who would look the sky, which looks
to the inspired image.

Another thing really catches my attention, and the profound philosophy that I thought reveals
to hide the feet to the Virgin. Actually, to a virgin, should not see their feet. All what a
virgin lost in shadow, lost in mystery, and whatever you lose in
mystery, lost of virgin. But do fold to indicate the thigh! What shape
to suggest the waist! What cloak to hide the feet! What ripples in
the suit! What softness of color! How sweet feeling! Expressions of
attitude! What purity and fervor of soul! No I mean the master of
the brush. And you know it's just the same
thing, only it's you and your children instead of mother and us that's in trouble; and you
needn't mind taking a little help when you would willingly have given it.'

'And that's true,' I heard the widow reply, in a tone of greater interest than I had yet known
her speak.

Her hostess looked at me, and said low, 'Them's the first words she has spoken in her own natural
voice since her trouble.'

Jane continued, not aware that we were listening to her now:

'I've often heard father say it's no disgrace to be ever so poor, and to get help from others,
when it comes on us from God's hand, and not because we are idle and won't work. Many a time
he says that, when he is ill and can't work, and mother gets downhearted, and thinks we'll
have to come on the parish; and he says even going on the parish ain't no disgrace then, when
it ain't one's own fault. But mother says she'd work her fingers to the bone sooner than she'd
go on the parish; and with one thing and another, we've always got on somehow, and so will
you, I'm sure.'

'Yes,' said the woman, with an energy that startled us all, while it delighted us,--'yes, I
may get on too, with God's help; but not if I am to sit here with my hands folded, before the
fire, thinking of my trouble instead of trying to mend it. God bless you, my lass, for your
money, which I'll take from you thankfully; and if I can't never repay you, may He do it. It
will serve to get me some clothes, and then I can work; and who knows but I may have a home
of my own again some day?'

Finding her able and willing now to listen to reason, I explained to her that some friends
who had heard of her loss had placed three pounds at my disposal for her use, and that she
must look upon the help she got quite as much as coming from God as Elijah did when the ravens
fed him, because it was God who put it into people's hearts to give her money. She took what
I gave her gratefully, and entered warmly into all the plans which we suggested for her future.
It was agreed that she should at once take a small furnished room, and go with her children
to occupy it. She said she had for some time had regular work as a charwoman for three days
in every week. This work she could still have; and I engaged to get her some needlework from
a working society, which might help to occupy her spare time, and bring in a little money.
The woman in whose house she was staying told us that a sister of hers would willingly take
the eldest girl, who was eleven years old, as she wanted a girl to take care of her baby while
she looked after a small shop. She engaged that for a year her sister should feed and clothe
the girl, if she gave satisfaction; and said that if she behaved herself, she was sure her
sister would keep her till she was old enough to get a better place. His
wife, who was more ugly each day, it became an unbearable condition of vinegar, and old fell
ill and was more nagging, still to Cunegonde. Digging the garden Cacambo and had to sell the
vegetables to Constantinople, was tired of the slaughter, and cursed his luck. Pangloss was in despair,
because it did not look his knowledge at a university in Germany, only Martin, firmly convinced
that everywhere man is ill, things had patience.
 Mrs. Martin got more work to do than she could get through,
and her children obtained situations as soon as they were old enough to work for themselves.
She never forgot the debt of gratitude she owed to Jane Hill. 

At a bend that makes the street:

The crystal palace.

Above:

The crystal palace .-- Clothing for men and children.

Below, in a
tin box of metal or gold:

Clothing for men and dresses for children. She began to say, in a deprecating way, 'Oh, ma'am, indeed it's far too kind! mine is
quite good yet;' but I stopped her, saying, 'No, Jane, you must not keep all the pleasure of
giving to yourself. Remember that to others, as well as to yourself, it is true that "It is
more blessed to give than to receive."'

       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

