"Then that settles it," interposed Mr. Fenshawe dryly. "Mrs. Haxton is a lady who knows her
own mind. She is fully qualified to take care of herself. Off you go to bed, Irene. Sufficient
for the day is the excitement thereof. And, according to present Indications, we shall be kept
busy to-morrow. Goodnight, Mr. Royson. I shall be better able to thank you in the morning."

Irene, too, held out a hand to Dick.

"I'm making up all sorts of nice compliments to offer you," she said, pleasantly. "You need,
not protest. I was gagged for the best part of an hour when I very specially wanted to talk,
so I have a whole lot of things to say after breakfast."

Dick read the meaning of the glance she flashed at him. Oddly enough, it expressed his own
thought. They must endeavor to find out how Mrs. Haxton came to be such a close acquaintance
of El Jaridiah's. Not only had he risked his life when he fancied she was in danger, but she,
on her part, was willing to return with him to Massowah under cover of the night--to Massowah,
whence she had fled in terror not many hours earlier.

CHAPTER XI

A WOMAN INTERVENES

When Mrs. Haxton descended the yacht's gangway, and seated herself in the boat which had brought
Abdullah from the shore, she threw a main with fate. But she was acting with her eyes open,
whereas poor mortality is oft called on to take that dangerous hazard blindfold. During several
haggard hours she had weighed her prospects in the scale of judgment, and the balance was wofully
unfavorable. Wealth she had none; and now she saw position slipping away also. As sure as the
sun would rise next day, so sure was it, as matters stood then, that exposure and humiliation
must arrive. To this hard, level-headed, shrewd woman there was no blinking the outcome of
an official inquiry. Alfieri was in Massowah, Alfieri, the man she had wronged as Delilah wronged
Samson. If he were arrested, owing to Irene's abduction, he would demand to be confronted with
von Kerber, would ask that she, too, should be arraigned with the Austrian, and put forward
such an indisputable plea that, whatever the outcome for the Italian, her English friends must
recoil from her with indignation. And there was worse in store. Mr. Fenshawe's generosity might
provide the means of returning to Europe, but she would go back discredited, a mere adventuress,
while the publicity attached to the yacht's errand could hardly fail to bring her name into
fatal notoriety. In a word, social ruin stared her in the face, and the prospect was so unpleasing
that her despairing glance turned more than once towards a dressing-case containing drugs whose
labels spelt oblivion.

Then came the Arab, with news of Irene's return, and, like any desperate gamester who ventures
the last shreds of a wasted capital on some almost impossible chance, she determined to fight
Alfieri to the end.

It was not a thing to be done in cold blood. Unarmed men have saved their lives by boldly attacking
lions, but that is no argument in favor of an unarmed man going out of his way to search for
the king of beasts. And the measure of Alfieri's hate was supplied by his daring attempt to
capture her. She shuddered to think of the result had he been successful, yet she nerved herself
now to out-maneuver him. Of course, there were some slight elements in her favor. The blunder
which had placed her enemy at loggerheads with the authorities gave her a momentary advantage.
The man's lust for vengeance might, indeed, sweep aside her attack, but she must risk that.
Had fate been kinder, Mrs. Haxton was cast in the mold that produces notable women. She knew
when to unite boldness with calculation; she would always elect to die fighting rather than
cower without a blow; and she would never believe a cause lost while there was a man to be
wheedled.

The Somali crew ferried her swiftly towards the landing-stage, and she bade Abdullah render
a full account of the rescue.

"You speak of a boat," she commented, with a puzzled air. "Did you see the occupants?"

"No, madame. We heard some shouting by Italians. That is all."

"A boat!" she said, deep in thought. "That seems to suggest that I was to be brought back to
the town. The hired carriage and the long drive into the country were intended to throw dust
in the eyes of those who might endeavor to find me."

"Or to a ship," suggested Abdullah. "Had they a dhow in readiness? Perhaps, by this time, they
may have slipped away to sea under cover of the darkness."

Mrs. Haxton laughed, but her mirth had not its wonted musical cadence.

"No," she said, "that is not likely. Grand Dieu, if only it were! Now, listen, and do exactly
as I bid you. Somewhere in Massowah, probably in one of the small restaurants, you will find
a man named Giuseppe Alfieri. You must inquire at every cafe and boarding house in the main
street--there are not many. You cannot mistake him. You met him once at Assouan, and you may
recall his appearance--he is tall and thin, with a lean, sallow face, clean shaven. He has
long, black hair and his eyes are large and deeply set. When you find him, you will say that
I wish to see him. He will be surprised, and talk big, but he will surely question you. Make
no secret of the fact that you are in my confidence. Tell him I offer a truce, that I am in
a position to make terms. He may bluster, and boast, perhaps, that I am on my knees. Well,
admit it, and remind him that where I fail, he, at least, has no chance of success. Do you
understand?' It is a question as between money and revenge. Alfieri is something of a fool.
If the bait be tempting enough he will swallow it, and not for the first time."

Abdullah nodded with complete comprehension of her under-thought. The Italian had been tricked
once. It might be possible to trick him again.

"If he agrees, Madame, when is he to meet you?"

"To-morrow morning, at eleven o'clock, at the hotel."

"But this other affair has set the bazaar in an uproar. One cannot carry off young English
ladies so easily. Monsieur Alfieri may be a prisoner."

"No such luck," said Mrs. Haxton bitterly. "You are not acquainted with the twists and turns
of events, Abdullah. That which was simple at Assouan has become complex here. Alfieri has
inflamed the mind of some high official at Rome, or he never could have persuaded the Governor
to go to such lengths as to arrest Fenshawe Effendi, not to speak of Monsieur le Baron. No,
this pig of a Governor has a Minister behind him. He may threaten, but Alfieri is safe."

"Nevertheless, he may be hidden."

"That will suit me equally well. Zut! Abdullah, you are not so quick as usual to-night."

"Pardon, Madame, you have told me what I am to do, but you have said no words as to yourself,
yet behold, we shall be on shore in a few minutes."

"I? I am going to the fort. I have one card to play with his Excellency. Pray to your Prophet,
Abdullah, that it may succeed."

The Arab bowed silently. It might be that he stood to win, no matter who lost, in this war
of intrigue.

"Do I see you again to-night, Madame?" he asked, as the boat drew alongside the jetty.

"I think not. Come with me until I obtain an alabeeyah. Then, to your search, and report to
me early to-morrow."

They soon found an alabeeyah, one of the small open carriages made popular in Egypt by the
French, and Mrs. Haxton was driven towards the fort. The Arab began his quest for Giuseppe
Alfieri, but found him not, for the most convincing reason that Alfieri was then seated in
the Governor's library, smoking the Governor's cigarettes, and drinking the Governor's best Capri.

His Excellency had just returned from the hotel. He, too, had deferred to the morning a tactful
explanation that pressure of business had prevented the despatch of Mr. Fenshawe's cablegrams
that night. But tact was not his most obvious gift. Though he hoped to mollify the irate yacht-owner
with soft words, he did not spare Alfieri now.

"The madness of it!" he cried. "You say it was a mistake. That is the plea of a stupid child.
The affair would have been just as awkward if you had carried off the Signora Haxton. She is
a British subject. In two days the newspapers of Europe would magnify the incident into an
international dispute, and, with Abyssinia always ready to fan the flame--"

"Believe me, Excellency, the Signora herself would have written that she had gone away of her
own free will," broke in the other.

"I doubt it very much. Her friends could not fail to think that she was writing under compulsion.
I tell you, idiot that you are, you have prejudiced your own case, made difficulties where
they did not exist. If your sworn statements are true--"

"They are true, true as death," vociferated Alfieri.

"Ebbene! Why, then, strengthen your enemies by giving them just cause for complaint?"

"If only you knew what I have suffered through that woman, Excellency!" came the angry cry.

"Oh, blame the woman, of course," said the Governor, with the fine scorn of a man who has married
a meek wife. "I lose patience with these transports. If a woman preferred another to me I would
dance at her wedding."

"You would not dance if she had used all the arts of treachery to rob you of your fortune."

"I flatter myself I would resist the tricks of any siren who was merely anxious to delude me.
But this is beside the question. These English suspect you of planning the outrage. Frankly,
I cannot see my way to meet the inquiry which must be made, sooner or later. Perhaps the old
man, Fenshawe, may consent to tone down his messages to-morrow. If he refuses, and sails to
Aden, the very cables will fuse under the storm of remonstrance from Rome. I may be recalled.
That pig, Festiano, will be appointed in my place. The more I consider your imbecility the
less am I inclined to put faith in anything you have said. How do I know that your Greek was
not an addle-headed ass like yourself? Corpo di Dio! His treasure of Saba may be a piece of
moon-madness akin to this tragi-comic plot of yours."

"I would have bent her to my will. I could make her go to this Austrian dog and tell him begone.
I could force her to confess to the Englishman that she had deceived him."

"Saetta! I am out of temper with you," growled the Governor, lighting a cigarette and smoking
furiously.

He was fond of plain speaking, this temporary ruler of Erythrea. The sudden death of a Governor
appointed from Rome had given him his chance. He might be superseded at any moment by some
carpetbagger with political influence, and it went against the grain that the private feuds
of people whose quarrels did not interest him in the least should be able to wreck his career.
Alfieri came to him with good credentials. If the man's story was borne out by facts, not only
would Italy receive a handsome sum from a colony which had hitherto been a drain on her resources,
but he, Marchetti, would reap some share of the credit, not to mention the bonus promised for
his assistance. His instructions from headquarters were clear. He had acted within his rights
in arresting von Kerber and detaining Mr. Fenshawe until the latter gave up an undertaking
to land on Italian territory without permission. That he had decided to release the Englishman
unconditionally was a further tribute to his good judgment. Having caged the hawk there was
no harm in freeing the pigeon. But Alfieri's passionate and ill-advised, attempt to abduct
Mrs. Haxton had changed the whole aspect of affairs. No wonder the stout and pompous little
man fumed and fretted in vain, endeavor to climb out of this unexpected pit.

Alfieri looked at his restless companion in moody silence. In aspect, he was the exact opposite
to the podgy Governor. Slender, and loosely built, he had the large, sunken eyes of a dreamer,
the narrow forehead of the self-opinionated, the delicate nostrils and mobile mouth of the
neurotic temperament. It was easy to see that such a man would brood over an injury, real or
imagined, till he had lashed himself into a tempest of wrath. His emotions could know no mean.
From sullen despair he could rebound to the most extravagant optimism. That very day he had
rushed away from the painstaking details of a semi-scientific expedition in order to--gratify
a Sicilian impulse which called for the ruthless settlement of an old score.

Even now, the sense of failure rankled deeper than the contemptuous anger of his fellow-countryman;
but the practical-minded Governor had no intent to leave matters where they stood.

"It seems to me," he said, turning suddenly on Alfieri, after gazing out across the harbor
and watching the twinkling lights on the Aphrodite, "it seems to me that the best thing we
can do now is to arrange a compromise. It is not too late. We must board the Englishman's yacht
early in the morning--"

He was interrupted by a knock at the door. A servant entered. There was a lady to see his Excellency.
By Bacchus, a lady, at that hour, nearly ten o'clock! Who was she, and what did she want? He
could not be bothered--

Then he read the name on the card brought by the man, and whistled softly, lest perchance this
latest phase of an electrical situation should demand words not in the repertory of excellencies.

"Wait outside for one moment," he said. Alfieri, alive to Signor Marchetti's suppressed excitement,
wondered who the visitor could be. The governor examined the card again. He gave his companion
a rather dreary smile.

"You are but a tinfoil conspirator, after all, my friend," said he. "Here is a woman who despises
you."

Alfieri sprang to his feet with an oath.

"She has not dared!" he cried.

"Calm yourself, I pray you. The Signora Haxton has come to pay a visit --that is all. The hour
is late, but, from what you have told me, she is not likely to be troubled by a consideration
of that kind. Now, Signor Alfieri, I am going to receive her. Do not forget that I am the Chief
magistrate of Massowah. It is probable that, through her instrumentality, I may be able to
extricate both myself and you from the predicament into which your folly has plunged us. And
I warn you that any display of temper will be fatal. Let us go slowly and we may go far."

Alfieri, all a-quiver with uncontrollable emotion, fixed his glowing eyes on the door when
the servant returned with Mrs. Haxton. She entered, with the graceful ease of one accustomed
to meet greater dignitaries than the head of a small Italian colony. Signor Marchetti advanced
a few paces. Where a lady was concerned he could be courteous enough, his abruptness being
a specially cultivated mannerism intended to impress natives with a sense of his importance.
But, beneath the skin of office, he was Italian to the core, and he promised himself a fine
scenic effect when the Englishwoman's glance fell on the other occupant of the room.

But Mrs. Haxton had nerved herself to play for a high stake. Though she shrank back a little
and caught her breath when she saw Alfieri, there was a restraint in her attitude which might
have surprised a more astute person than Governor Marchetti. Her eyes contracted somewhat,
her lips tightened, a hand clutched at the folds of a cloak thrown loosely over her shoulders.
Marchetti paid heed to these things, and interpreted them as evidences of timidity. A man accustomed
to wield a rapier rather than a cudgel would not have made that initial error. Alfieri's presence
changed the whole situation, and Mrs. Haxton, in whom the stage had lost a great actress, instantly
bent her wits to deal with the new set of circumstances thus created.

"You speak Italian, signora? Ah, capital! Pray be seated," said the Governor affably. "As you
have honored me with a call at this unusual hour I take it that your business is urgent. Do
you wish to confer with me in private? If so, Signor Alfieri, who is not unknown to you, I
believe, will leave us for a few minutes. Otherwise, you can talk quite frankly in his presence."

That was the Governor's method of putting his two visitors at their ease. The lady would assume
he knew everything. The man would take his cue from a friendly opening. What could be better?

"I am glad that Signor Alfieri is here, your Excellency, though I must admit that I did not
expect to see him," said Mrs. Haxton, taking the proffered chair. "My business concerns him,
to a certain extent. By all means, let him remain."

Her voice was under control. She spoke Italian fluently, and her smooth, clear accents seemed
to stir strange memories in Alfieri's soul. But, thinking to annoy her, he forced a spiteful
grin to his thin lips.

"Allowing for the lapse of years, Rita," he said, "and bearing in mind your natural distress
at to-day's occurrences, you are looking remarkably well."

She flashed one quick glance at him, then smiled sweetly at Marchetti.

"My distress ended when the Signorina Fenshawe was brought back to her friends. Of course,
it was a dreadful thing that she should be carried off in such a way. Were it not for the skill
and resource displayed by one of the Aphrodite's officers, there is no knowing what the consequences
might have been."

"You have seen the signorina at the hotel?" put in the Governor.

"No, I came straight from the yacht. I thought it advisable."

"But the affair has been misrepresented. It is a mere bagatelle. There exists, shall we say,
a certain disagreement between you and Signor Alfieri. There was an unhappy mistake, which
I would have rectified without any help from the yacht. You see, rumor is apt to exaggerate."

"I think you are taking a very reasonable and proper view, your Excellency. It will be best
for all parties if we try to regard the incident in that light."

Marchetti was vaguely conscious of a too complete agreement in the lady's tone. But he seized
the apparent advantage.

"Then that is settled," he said cheerfully. "I have already apologized to Signor Fenshawe.
To-morrow a more ample explanation and expression of regret should remove any cause of friction."

"I have reason to think there will be no difficulty in arriving at an amicable settlement,
provided you fall in with the suggestion I am here to make."

"And that is?"

"That you release the Baron von Kerber to-night."

"Ha!" snarled Alfieri, but the Governor angrily motioned him to be silent.

"No one is better aware than yourself, signora, how utterly impossible is your request," he said.

"The proposal is not even worthy of debate, then?"

"But no."

"That is a pity. My small experience of life has taught me that when two reasonable people,
or even three, hold different views on any given subject, there is always something to be said
in favor of each contention. Indeed, wisdom leans towards a compromise in such a case."

"You presuppose a mere divergence of opinion. Here we have no room for it. Your confederate,
signora, if you will pardon a harsh term, is believed to have stolen valuable documents from
my friend, Signor Alfieri. My Government has instructed me to arrest him, and to use every
means, not stopping short of armed force, to prevent the Aphrodite from undertaking what is
little else than a piratical expedition. You see, therefore, that it is not in my power, if
I were so minded, to set Baron von Kerber at liberty. Compromise in any other direction would
appeal to me. Where Baron von Kerber is concerned, I am helpless."

His Excellency was firmly planted on the gubernatorial dais once more. Mrs. Haxton evidently
demanded plain speaking. Being a blunt man, he gave it to her. But she smiled again, quite
pleasantly.

"That is what I may describe as the correct official attitude," she said. "If it were founded
on fact, it would be unassailable. But Signor Alfieri can tell you that the Baron most certainly
did not steal anything from him. If a culprit must be found, it was I, not Franz von Kerber,
who should be charged with theft."

"Ah, Dio mio, you hear? She admits!"

Alfieri almost screeched the words. He was in a frenzy of passion. This woman had ever the
power to drive him beyond bounds. He hated her now with an intensity born of derided love.
The Governor would have stormed at him, but Mrs. Haxton accepted the challenge too promptly.

"I admit nothing," she cried with a sudden shrillness. "If admissions are necessary I shall
wait until Abdullah confronts you. Then, when I have told my story, he shall tell his."

"Who cares for Abdullah!" came the retort. "Not I. It is well, indeed, to appeal to the testimony
of an unknown Arab."

"You shall have the opportunity of refuting him," said. Mrs. Haxton. "He is in Massowah. But
that is a question for such tribunal as may exist in this lawless town. Your Excellency's decision
is final?" she added, turning to the Governor.

"Absolutely irrevocable, signora. You see how it stands--my orders are explicit."

"Their explicitness is as nothing compared to the clearness of the next mandate you will receive
from Rome," she blazed out. "Was it according to your orders that an English lady was carried
off by brigands, simply to glut the vengeance of my discarded Beppo? You spoke of confederates,
Signor Marchetti. What of the confederacy that permits this man to be your guest while your
officers are making mock search for him in the bazaar? Your judges, even such as they are,
will laugh him out of court when he tries to substantiate the charge he has brought against
Baron von Kerber. Poor, love-sick fool!--to gratify his spite he attacks his rival with false
evidence rather than let it be known that a woman twisted him round her little finger. Look
at him now; he would strike me dead, if he dared; but he cannot answer me."

Alfieri leaped to his feet. His voice rose to a cracked falsetto.

"You hear, you hear!" was his cry. "She robbed me of the papyrus, yet boasts of it. She is
a thief, self-confessed."

Mrs. Haxton also sprang up. Her physical dread of the man had yielded to the triumph of having
cornered him.

"Truly I hope his Excellency hears," she said. "If I am to blame for the loss of your papers,
why is Baron von Kerber in prison on your testimony?"

"You are both in league," he almost screamed. "I was blind, infatuated, at Assouan. It was
the Austrian who planned my undoing, and you, his paramour, who cajoled me out of my senses."

"I refuse to stay here and be insulted by such a coward," she said, gathering her skirts as
though she intended to take her departure instantly. "But it will be a fine story that Signor
Fenshawe cables from Aden when he tells how the Governor of Massowah aided and abetted this
half-crazy poltroon in onslaughts on defenseless women. It was not enough that Italian law
should be misused to further his ends, but the scum of the bazaar is enlisted under his banner,
and he is supported by the authorities in an act that would be reprobated by any half-savage
state in existence."

"I pray you calm yourself, signora," exclaimed Marchetti, now fully alive to the dangers confronting
him. "You must see that I have only acted in an official capacity. I, at least, have no feeling
in the matter. I received certain information--"

"Which was entirely misleading and one-sided," she broke in imperiously.

"Which certainly did not refer to you in any particular," was the sharp rejoinder, while he
glanced at Alfieri, "If this gentleman is now prepared to say that he was mistaken--"

"Who dares to hint at any admission on my part?" shouted Alfieri.

The stout Governor did not like to be bawled at. He was sufficiently embarrassed already by
the quagmire into which Alfieri had plunged him.

"You ought to be careful in your choice of words," he said pompously. "There is no question
of 'dare' or 'dare not' where I am concerned. Signora, do me the favor of sitting here while
I discuss matters briefly with Signor Alfieri. Signor, be good enough to precede me."

He pointed to the door. With a queer catching at her breath, Mrs. Haxton sank into a chair.
Alfieri folded his arms and gazed at the Governor with eyes that blazed under his heavy brows.

"You are the representative of Italy," he said, making a great effort to speak quietly. "I
call on you to lodge that woman in a cell so that she may be tried with her accomplice."

"If you do not go instantly, and in silence, into the corridor, I shall call on my guards to
take you there by force," exclaimed Marchetti with a more successful assumption of ease.

Alfieri turned his lambent glance on Mrs. Haxton, but the Governor stopped the imminent outburst.

"I said 'in silence,'" he roared, stretching a hand to grasp a bell- rope. Alfieri, with a
fierce gesture of disdain, went out. His Excellency bowed to the lady.

"Two minutes," he murmured. "The wine on the table is Capri. You will find it grateful after
this somewhat heated interview."

But Mrs. Haxton drank no wine when the Governor followed Alfieri. She bit her lips and clenched
her hands in an agony of restraint. This lull in the storm was more trying than the full fury
of the blast. The Governor's two minutes lengthened into ten. Then he hurried back, alone.
He was manifestly ill at ease, though he spoke glibly enough.

"I am taking a grave step, signora," he said, "but I feel that the peculiar circumstances warrant
it. I have released the Baron von Kerber. He is now awaiting you, and it will give me much
pleasure to conduct you to your carriage. Yet I pray you give earnest heed to me. I have told
him what I now tell you--this undertaking of yours must be abandoned. Not only is it my duty
to prevent it at all costs, but an expedition starts for the Five Hills this very night. So,
you see, you are sure to fail in any case. The exact locality is known, and Signor Alfieri
has an armed escort. I repeat, you have failed. May I hope, without being rude, that your love
affairs may be more prosperous. Charming woman that you are, I cannot compliment you on either
of your present suitors. My advice Is, go back to England, and help me tomorrow in persuading
Signor Fenshawe to let matters rest where they are."

As one walking in a dream, Mrs. Haxton accompanied Marchetti to the courtyard. There she found
von Kerber, who ran to meet her.

"So it is you," he cried in English. "I guessed it, though they would tell me nothing."

The Governor was most polite. He would not lecture them, before natives.

"I have spoken as a friend, to-night," he murmured. "To-morrow I shall be an official once more."

The alabeeyah rattled across the paved square towards the gateway. Alfieri, on whom an officer
kept an eye, watched it with malevolence from an upper window.

"There go two people whom I hate," he said to his guardian. "They have escaped me this time.
When I am rich, rich as any king in Europe, I shall have a king's power. Then I shall find
them and crush them utterly."

The driver swung his horses towards the sea front.

"No, no," cried Mrs. Haxton. "Go through the bazaar. Drive slowly." And, in the next breath,
she explained to von Kerber: "We must find Abdullah. He is somewhere in the main street. Above
all things, we must find Abdullah. Alfieri leaves Massowah tonight, and he is making for the
Five Hills. Our only hope lies with Abdullah."

CHAPTER XII

STUMP DEPENDS ON OBSERVATION

After eight hours of dreamless sleep, Irene awoke to a torpid but blissful conviction that
bed is a most comfortable place when bones ache and the slightest movement is made irksome
by patches of chafed skin. In fact, having buried her hands gingerly in the wealth of brown
hair that streamed over the pillow, she lay and watched the white planks of the deck overhead,
wondering idly what time it was. The effort to guess the hour brought her a stage nearer complete
consciousness. Her first precise recollection was also pleasant. She thought of the way in
which Royson had carried her in his arms not so many hours earlier, and the memory banished
all others for many minutes.

If she smiled and blushed a little, it may be pleaded that she was twenty years of age, and
had passed her girlhood amidst surroundings from which young men eligible to carry young ladies
in their arms, or even hold them there, were rigorously excluded. Not that her grandfather
was a misanthrope, but his interests were bound up so thoroughly in Egyptian research that
his friends were, for the most part, elderly savants with kindred tastes. The wreck, of the
Bokhara, too, with Irene's father and mother among its passengers, had helped to cut him off
from the social world. When the grief of that tragedy had yielded to the passing years he hardly
realized that the little child who had crept into his affections was growing up into a beautiful
and light-hearted girl. Quite insensibly she assimilated herself to his hobbies and studies,
became mistress of his London house and fine estate in Berkshire, and, by operation of forces
more effective in their way than any Puritanical safeguards, lived apart from the gay throng
in which she was eminently fitted to take a leading place.

Irene offered, then, a somewhat unusual type. While other girls might recount the number of
male hearts they had subdued during the past season, Irene could state, with equal accuracy,
the names of the gods of the Memphite order. Though her grandfather's wealth and the eagerness
of a skilled maid compelled her to take a passing interest in fashions, she was far more devoted
to variations in scarabs. Such attainments, if sedulously pursued during the succeeding decade,
might have converted her into an alarmingly precise Bas Bleu! As it was, the Memphite gods
smiled on her, and the scarabs might buzz off to their museums contentedly at any moment, for
Irene was only waiting the advent of an undreamed-of influence into her life to develop into
a tender, sympathetic, delightful womanhood.

Indeed, if Ka and Ra and beetle-headed Khepra were so important in the scheme of existence
that this dainty scientist cared naught for the moth-life of society, why, then, did she blush
when she remembered how closely Dick Royson had clasped her to his breast over-night? Perhaps
she might have asked herself that question, only to blush more deeply in trying to answer it,
had not her thoughts been distracted by the extraordinary behavior of a silk underskirt hanging
on a peg at the foot of the bed. It was swinging to and fro with the regularity of a pendulum,
and that which is regular in a pendulum is fantastically irregular in an underskirt. She sat
up quickly, and listened. There was a swish of water outside. Now and again she heard a slight
movement of the rudder chains in their boxes. Then, all aglow with wonder and excitement, she
jumped out of bed and drew the curtain of one of the two tiny portholes that gave light to
her cabin.

Yes, another marvel had happened. The yacht was speeding along under canvas,--was already far
out at sea. Where Massowah's yellow sandspit shone yesterday were now blue wavelets dancing
in the sun, and Irene was sailor enough to know that the Aphrodite was bound south.

She rang an electric bell, and her maid came.

"Yes, miss," said the girl, "we've been going since midnight. As soon as Mrs. Haxton and Baron
von Kerber came on board--"

"Baron von Kerber, did you say?" broke in Irene breathlessly.

"Yes, miss. He came with Mrs. Haxton. Mind you, miss, I haven't seen him, but one of the stewards
told me that the Baron went straight to Mr. Fenshawe's cabin, and the order was given to raise
the anchor immediately. I'm sure they made plenty of noise. They woke me up, miss, and I'm
a sound sleeper."

The maid was ready to say more, but Irene had learnt to discourage servants' gossip.

"I think the Aphrodite might have fired cannons last night without disturbing me," she declared
lightly. "What time is it?"

"Nearly nine o'clock, miss. No one seemed to be stirring, so Mr. Gibson put off breakfast for
half an hour. He said that everybody must be worn out after yesterday's worries."

Irene laughed. Gibson, the head steward, a fatherly sort of man, was a martinet in the matter
of punctuality at meals. This adjourning of the breakfast hour was a great concession on his
part. It showed how strenuous life had been at Massowah.

Despite her aches and pains, she dressed rapidly. She was all agog to learn how von Kerber
had regained his liberty, and what new development was marked by the yacht's unexpected sailing.
When she hurried to the bridge for news, the first person she met was Royson, and perhaps one
of those old deities of Memphis would have smiled darkly were he privileged to see the tell-tale
color that leaped to both faces.

Naturally, the girl was the speedier to find her tongue.

"Good gracious, Mr. Royson," she said, "what is the meaning of this?" and a generous hand-sweep
included sea and sky and distant coastline in the eager question.

"I don't know," he said. "Captain Stump and Mr. Tagg entered into a conspiracy to keep me in
bed. I have not been on deck five minutes."

"But didn't you ask? Aren't you consumed with curiosity? Who is in charge of the bridge?"

"Mr. Tagg. His stock of information is limited. 'Cleared the islands at four bells; course
South-40-East' is practically all he has to say."

"It may be, then, that you are good at guessing? Have you not heard that the Baron is with us?"

"Yes, Miss Fenshawe, I knew that last night. Indeed, I heard his boat hail the watch. I was
lying awake, and the Baron's voice is easily recognizable."

"Mrs. Haxton seems to have succeeded where all else failed. Did you see any of their companions?
Was El Jaridiah with them?"

"No. I plead guilty to opening a port and looking out. The tide carried the boat close beneath
me when she was cast loose from the gangway. El Jaridiah, or Abdullah, if that is his name,
was not there."

"It is all very mysterious and puzzling," said Irene, gazing at the purple mountains which
fringed the southwest horizon. "I am sorry we have not been able to reward the man, and I had
set my heart on buying Moti. Don't you think it was rather wonderful that such a weedy-looking
animal should have carried us so safely?"

"It was all very wonderful," Dick replied, but he did not dare to meet the glance suddenly
turned on him. For some reason, Miss Fenshawe decided to guide their talk into a less personal
channel.

"If the breakfast gong does not ring immediately, I shall go and hammer on grandad's door,"
she vowed. "He hates being disturbed when he is dressing, but I am simply aching to find out
what has happened and where we are going. And, talking of aches, Mr. Royson, look at my poor
wrists."

She held out both her hands, close together, with the palms downwards. Royson noticed instantly
she was wearing a beautiful marquise ring on the middle finger of her left hand. The rules
which govern the use of these baubles were beyond his ken. A plain gold ring on a lady's so-
called fourth finger is a marriage token known to all men, but he had not the ghost of an idea
where an engagement ring should be carried, and he jumped to the conclusion that the girl was
wearing one. Why had he never seen it before, he wondered? Was it a hint, a reminder of the
conventions? It is probable that Irene herself would have been surprised if she were told that
it was once the custom for engaged young ladies to reveal their happiness by displaying a ring
on the middle finger, while those who were free but prepared to wed might coyly announce the
fact by a ring on the index finger. Be that as it may, Royson was dumfounded by the sight of
the glistening diamonds. They winked at him evilly, and his tongue tripped:

"I cannot tell you how sorry I am," he murmured thickly, Irene dropped her hands.

"Unless you are able to squint, you didn't look at my wrists at all," she exclaimed. A gong
pealed loudly from the cabin, and she ran off. Dick made for the chart-room, in front of which
Tagg was leaning on the rail and gazing ahead.

"You've bin quick," said the chief. "'Keep her steady as she goes, South-40-East, until the
ole raw comes on deck. If the wind drops, call 'im."

Then Dick remembered that Tagg had bidden him have his breakfast before he came on duty. Royson
said nothing, but took his station on the bridge. Tagg, being lame, preferred to swing himself
to the main deck, whence he hopped into the small cabin where the officers ate their meals.
He came back instantly.

"Wot's the game?" he inquired sympathetically.

"You've eaten nothin'. Feelin' bad?"

"No. Oh, no," Royson laughed and reddened.

"Then wot's wrong? Didn't you fancy the corfee an' bacon, after the high livin' ashore?"

"The fact is, I met Miss Fenshawe, and she detained me a few minutes."

"Is that any reason why you shouldn't eat?"

"None whatever. I--er--really--forgot."

"Forgot your breakfast! Come orf of it."

Tagg climbed up, monkey-like.

"Take my tip," he said earnestly, "This is a bad climate to go hungry in. You'd 'ave a touch
of the sun in less'n no time. Just go below, an' force yerself to nibble a bit. It'll do you
good, an' I don't mind keepin' watch another spell."

Royson obeyed in silence. His friend's kindliness supplied an unconscious but necessary tonic
to his system. Obviously, the second mate of the Aphrodite had no business to trouble his head
about the symbolism of rings worn by Miss Irene Fenshawe. Yet he wished he knew which was the
engagement finger.

Shortly before noon Captain Stump came on deck to take the sun. This was a semi-religious rite
with Stump. Though the contours of the coast drawn along two sides of the Admiralty chart rendered
a solar observation quite needless within sight of land, he proceeded to ascertain the yacht's
position according to the formula, or, at any rate, according to such portion of it as applied
to his rule-of-thumb calculations. Having pricked the chart and written the log, Stump bit
the end off a cigar. He was ready for a gossip with Royson.

"You won't find life quite so lively at Aden as at Massowah," he said.

"We are bound for Aden, then?"

"Where did you think we was headin' for? Melbourne?"

"Well, sir, if I gave any thought to it I inclined more to the belief that we were making for
our original destination."

"An' where was that?"

"A bay somewhere south of us, not far from Perin."

"Have you heard anything fresh?" asked Stamp quickly.

"Not a word. But, if we reach Aden, I suppose the expedition will be abandoned."

"They're chewin' about it now in the saloon," said the skipper, glancing over his shoulder
to make sure there was no one within earshot. His sailor's eye swept the horizon at the same
instant, and he saw a smoke-blur some miles astern. Breaking off the conversation abruptly,
he Weal into the chart-house, and returned with a telescope, which, he balanced against a stay.

"There's a steamer comin' after us in a desprit hurry," he announced, when a prolonged examination
had enabled him to form an opinion.

"After us?" repeated Dick.

"That's the way I read it. She's from Massowah. The reg'lar channel is fifty miles east. Tell
you wot, it's that I-talian gunboat the guv'nor spoke about."

"But she was not in port when we left."

"No. We passed her comin' in."

"Ah, she recognized us?"

"Not much. We were under sail, an carried no masthead light. When I twigged hers I tied a couple
of sou'westers over our side lights. It's a good thing at sea to mind your own business sometimes,
an', more'n that, to take care that other people mind theirs when they want to be nasty."

"Shall we keep on under canvas, sir?"

"As long as the wind lasts," said Stump, closing the telescope and rolling off towards the
saloon. Within a minute all hands were on deck. The corporate life of a small ship is closely
knit. The word had gone round that a gunboat was in pursuit, and every one wanted to see her.

Mr. Fenshawe and Baron von Kerber stood apart. The older man was visibly annoyed by this new
instance of Italian interference. Royson, pacing the tiny bridge, caught an occasional glimpse
of the millionaire's emphatic gestures. The Austrian was more sallow than usual, but that might
be the result of his unpleasant experiences on the previous day. Irene came to the bridge.
Though she knew that none except the captain might converse with the officer on duty, she whispered
timidly:

"They won't fire at us, Mr. Royson, will they?"

He smiled reassuringly. The tremor in her voice was delightful. It made him forget that wretched
ring for a moment.

"No, that is not to be feared, Miss Fenshawe. My experience of the sea is no greater than your
own, but you may be sure the Italians will follow the rules. If they really wish to overhaul
us they will fly a signal soon."

The warship was traveling sixteen knots an hour, the Aphrodite seven, so the chase did not
last long. About one o'clock the green, white, and red ensign of Italy fluttered to the end
of the pursuing vessel's foreyard, where it could be seen most easily; under it were shown
the red and white striped code signal, and the "J" flag, which latter, in the language of the
seas means, "Stop; I 'have something important to communicate."

The British ensign was run up, followed by the answering pennant, the mainsail was lowered,
the foresail backed, and the yacht was brought to, while the Italian ship, which was made out
to be the Cigno, came on rapidly.

Mrs. Haxton approached. Stump and whispered in his ear.

"Quite right, ma'am," he nodded. He walked forward and looked at the crew, mustered in full
strength in the fore part.

"Every man, 'cept those on watch, go below,", he growled, "an' mind you keep there, with al
ports closed, until I ax you to show your ugly mugs on deck."

They obeyed in sulky silence, though they appreciated the reason of the order. Hence, when,
the Cigno stopped her panting engines abreast of the Aphrodite, there were many more pairs
of eyes watching from the yacht than the Italian captain reckoned on.

The warship lowered a boat. Something went wrong with the gear, the after block jammed, the
boat fell and dangled from her davits bows first, and an officer and half a dozen men were
thrown into the sea. They were soon rescued, but the mishap did not tend to sweeten the temper
of the Cigno's commander. A dry officer and crew were requisitioned, and the boat was pulled
alongside the yacht.

Stump, with a malicious grin on his face, leaned over the starboard rail.

"Wot is it?" he demanded. "Have you lost yer bearin's?"

The officer replied in Italian, greatly to Stump's disgust.

"I s'pose the chap they chucked overboard was the on'y Dago among 'em who could speak English,"
he grunted, but Mrs. Haxton explained that the officer was asking for the gangway to be lowered.
Stump nodded to a couple of sailors, and the ladder dropped so smartly that the boat nearly
came to grief a second time.

The officer bowed very politely when he reached the deck. Probably he was surprised to find
himself in the presence of two such beautiful women. Though Irene spoke Italian, Mrs. Haxton
took on herself the role of interpreter. The Cigno carried two letters from the Governor of
Massowah, she said. One was addressed to Signor Fenshawe, the other to the signor captain of
the British yacht Aphrodite. Would the two gentlemen kindly read and acknowledge receipt of
the Governor's epistles?

Both were purely formal documents. They set forth the official demand that the Aphrodite should
not attempt to land any of her occupants on Italian territory at other than a recognized port,
and warned her owner and commander that the Cigno would enforce observance of the request.

At first, Mr. Fenshawe refused angrily to give a written reply, but von Kerber prevailed on
him, and he wrote:

"Mr. Hiram Fenshawe begs to inform the Governor of Erythrea that his prohibition of the landing
of a British scientific expedition in the colony he rules is arbitrary and unwarranted. Mr.
Hiram Fenshawe is further of opinion that the said prohibition is part of the lawless treatment
to which he and other members of the yacht's company were subjected during their visit to the
'recognized port' of Massowah. Finally, Mr. Hiram Fenshawe intends to lay the whole matter
before the British Foreign Office."

This stiff-necked answer showed clearly that the writer was still on von Kerber's side, no
matter what revelations were contained in the letter from London which Royson knew of. Irene
copied the note for her grandfather. She made no comment. Perhaps her own island blood was
a- boil at the cavalier tone of the Governor's threat.

Stump's letter was characteristic. It ran:

    S. Y. Aphrodite,

    Lat. 15 deg. 10' N., Long. 41 deg. 15' E,

    SIR--Yours at hand. Will act as think fit.

    Yours truly,

    JOHN STUMP, Master

The disagreeable part of this business ended, the Italian officer conveyed the compliments
of the Cigno's commander, and, on his behalf, invited Signor Fenshawe and the two ladies to
luncheon. Mr. Fenshawe stiffly declined, on the plea that he did not wish to interrupt the
voyage, and the envoy went back to his ship.

The Aphrodite swung round into the wind, dipped her ensign, and was soon bowling along at her
usual rate. The Cigno stood away for the coast, but, as the day wore, it was palpable that
she did not mean to part company with the yacht until the Straits of Bab-el-mandeb were passed.

About four o'clock the wind dropped and the engines were called on. With the night the wind
rose again but veered to the south. The Cigno's lights were clearly visible at about three
miles' distance. Her white masthead light watched the Aphrodite without blinking, while her
red and green eyes suggested to Irene's fancy some fabled monster of the deep waiting to pounce
on the yacht if she deviated an inch from her seaward course.

The girl snatched a few minutes' talk with Royson. Von Kerber, it seemed, had persuaded her
grandfather that Alfieri was the paid agent of rival archeologists who had got wind of the
Sabaean hoard, and were able to secure the help of the Italian Government. She was convinced
that the ill treatment meted out to them at Massowah had only confirmed the old gentleman's
determination to best his opponents at all costs. The burking of his cablegrams, made known
by the Baron, was the last straw in an aggravated load. The yacht was going to Aden to enable
him to lodge a complaint with the proper authorities, but she would leave almost at once for
French--Somaliland, where a kafila would be collected and a dash made across the Italian frontier.
And Dick gathered that Irene herself was inclined to let affairs run their natural course.
He agreed with her, which was to be expected, seeing that he was four-and twenty, and in love.
He cudgeled his brains for some pretext to discuss rings and the manner of wearing them, but
his wit failed him there. Irene on the deck of her grandfather's yacht differed in several
important particulars from the tremulous girl who clung to him during that blissful journey
of the previous night.

He tried to clear up this vital point with Tagg.

"Did you ever give a young lady an engagement ring?" he asked, after judiciously leading his
chief to discourse on the frailties of the sex.

"Well," said Tagg reflectively, "it all depen's on the way you take' it. I once gev' a girl
a Mizpah ring, which fancied, when she saw'r it in a pawnshop window. Next time I met her she
tole me she'd swopped it for a dress improver. The feller she was goin' to marry didn't like
the motter as comin' from me, you see, but the funny thing was she never said a word about
him when she saw'r me buyin' the ring. Since then, I've kep' me money in me pocket."

Royson took the morning watch, from 4 A.M. till 8. Stump joined him soon after dawn, and appeared
to be anxious about the yacht's exact position. So far as Dick could judge from the chart,
they were in safe waters; nevertheless, the stout skipper did not rest content until the tall
peak of Jebel Aduali opened up clear of Jebel Ash Ali, with Sanahbor Island bearing west.

A lighthouse on the mainland flashed a bright ray at them before the rising sun rendered its
warning unnecessary. Still dogging them, the Cigno followed in their wake at half speed, but
Stump gave no eye to the warship. He continued to scan the coast intently. A low, double- peaked
hill intervened between the lofty Jebel Aduali and the ship. When its saddle cut the summit
of the more distant mountain, Stump changed the course sharply.

To Royson's surprise, the yacht turned due west, and headed for the point whence the lighthouse
had gleamed half an hour earlier.

And now, instead of looking ahead, Stump kept his telescope glued on the Cigno. A cloud of
smoke from the gunboat's funnels showed that she had noted the Aphrodite's new direction, and
meant to take a close interest in it. She had a few miles to make up, but that was a simple
matter, and her nose swung to the southwest as she raced for the bay towards which the yacht
was steaming.

Both vessels held on, following converging lines, for nearly an hour. By that time they were
hardly a mile apart. Suddenly Stump sent the Aphrodite round until she lay on her previous
course. In a word, after standing in for the land in the most decided manner, he was now making
for the Straits again.

This behavior apparently puzzled the Italian vessel, as, indeed, it succeeded in puzzling Royson
and the man at the wheel, while the looks cast towards the bridge by the watch, who were mainly
employed In swabbing the deck, told that the men were commenting on the yacht's erratic wanderings.

All at once the blare of a siren came faintly over the shimmering sea, and Stump chuckled triumphantly.

"He's found it," he roared, his voice almost rivaling the hoarseness of the far-off foghorn.
"Sink me If that Dago wasn't so taken up with pipin' my antics that he's gone an' done it!"

"Done what, sir?" asked Dick, seeing that his respected skipper was in hilarious mood.

"Run his bloomin' Cigno onto the Scilla Shoal. Damme, I thought he'd do it. Listen to him,"
for another wail reached them from the disconsolate warship. "He's fixed there as though, he
was glued to it. He'll have to jettison all his bunker an' a gun or two afore he gets off.
They tell me Cigno means 'swan.' I wonder wot's the I-talian for 'goose.' Go an' tell Tagg.
Tell him to tumble up quick, if on'y for the sake of ole times."

Royson aroused the chief, and gave him the skipper's message. Tagg, rubbing his eyes, came
on deck. He looked at the Cigno, heard her dismal trumpeting, and slowly took, in the surroundings.

"Well, s'elp me!" he grinned. "Sorry to rake cold ashes, cap'n, but isn't that where you piled
up the Ocean Queen?"

"Don't I know it!" growled' Stump, "One solid month, we stuck there, didn't we, Tagg? Threw
over-board two thousand tons o' best Cardiff, an' then had to be hauled off by another tramp.
Well, good-by, Swan! I'll report you at Perim. An' mind you take care o' them letters. It 'ud
be a pity if the Governor didn't 'ave 'em in time. By gad, I never thought I'd owe the Ocean
Queen a good turn. She lost me my berth, an' nearly cost me my ticket, but she's made it up
to-day. Come on, Tagg, we'll have a tot o' rum an' drink to the rotten ole hulk which gev'
us best ag'in that swaggerin' I-talian. My godfather, won't Becky be pleased when she hears of it!"

And the two dived below to partake of the generous spirit which pays homage to the rising sun,
while the Cigno bleated her distress to deaf ears.

CHAPTER XIII

THE SIGN IN THE SKY

"There is a spice of the nomad in all of us," said Irene, pulling up her hardy Somali pony
and allowing him to graze on some prickly plant from which a grass-fed animal would have turned
in hungry disgust.

"Here am I, quite new to desert life, enjoying it to the full. Perhaps my remote ancestors
were gipsies. Do I look like a gipsy, Mr. Royson?"

"My acquaintance with gipsies is limited," said Dick. "Once, being free from office troubles
on Derby Day, I walked over Epsom Downs, and was beseeched many times to have my fortune told.
Most of the prophetesses --they were all of your sex, Miss Fenshawe--were blessed with exceedingly
fine complexions and beautiful eyes. If these are marked features of the gipsy tribe--"

"Don't you dare bring me out here in order to pay compliments."

"Indeed, I am but stating the bare truth to your face."

"If you persist, then, I shall be compelled to act the part of a gipsy and tell your fortune,
and I warn you that it will not be very cheerful hearing."

Royson gazed beyond her towards a white mist which shrouded the eastern horizon. Overhead,
the delicious blue of early morning was yielding to the noonday tint of molten copper.

"Even if we turn back to-day there are thirty marches between us and the sea," he said with
seeming irrelevance.

But those two were beginning to understand one another, and the girl colored under the deep
tan of sun and air.

"Whenever we are alone now you insist on talking nonsense," she said. "I really believe the
desert has made you light-headed. Please be serious for a moment. I brought you here to--"

"I am glad you have corrected yourself. A moment ago you charged me with bringing you here."

"Well, then, we came here, if one must be so accurate, to be away from the others. At least,
I mean--Well, that is a stupid way of putting it, but it will serve--"

"It has served most admirably," said Royson, glancing back at the long drawn-out caravan crossing
the shallow valley they had just quitted.

"There you go again," she cried, with just a touch of petulance in her tone. "You know very
well that I did not mean what I said."

"Not even when you promised to tell my fortune."

"I can explain myself that way if you like. Your fortune is singularly like my own at the present
moment. You are accompanying a crowd of people who don't know where they are going, or what
they mean to do when they get there. I am quite sure the Baron is befogged, or, if that is
not a happy expression in this wonderful atmosphere, shall I say lost? I don't speak Arabic,
but I can read that man's face, and I watched him this morning when he was consulting our so-called
guide. In plain English, Mr. Royson, we are drifting, in the vain hope that somewhere out there
we shall find five hills in a clump. I don't object, in a sense. It is a very delightful picnic
from one point of view. But I hate uncertainty, and I loathe deceit, and here we are at the
mercy of both, while my grandfather is so taken up with the joy of arranging everything, which
von Kerber very cleverly leaves to him, that he simply won't listen to me when I suggest the
need of more definite information. And just think of it! Five Hills! With a rocky desert in
front and five thousand hills to the left. What is to be the end of it all? Are we to go wandering
on till we march into Suez, or Cairo?"

"Our sheikh is a marvel at finding oases," said Dick. "I wonder if there is a string of them
all the way between here and--"

"Mr. Royson," broke in Irene, "you are the only person' to whom I can confide my doubts and
fears. They may be silly, but please don't adopt that tone. It--hurts."

Royson, who had dismounted, slipped his Arab's bridle under an arm and strode a pace nearer.

"Don't you see that we can do nothing at present?" he said earnestly. "I am alive to the difficulties
which may beset us in the near future; but what would you have me do, Miss Fenshawe? If your
grandfather were not of the party, I know exactly what I would propose--at least, I think I know."

"And that is?"

"That Stump and some of our men should escort you and Mrs. Haxton back to Pajura, and let our
Austrian friend ride his hobby to death. And believe me, I am not consulting my own wishes
in saying that."

"Don't you wish to return?"

"No. I love this arid land. I never see the supercilious curl of a camel's lip or meet the
bland contempt of his eye but I imagine him saying, 'Ah, Feringhi, were it not for your white
skin I might whisper strange secrets into your ear, but you are an unbelieving dog, so perforce
I remain dumb.' Hence, Miss Fenshawe, inclination pulls one way and common sense the other.
As matters stand, I plead guilty to a profound gladness that common sense has not swayed us
to-day, and may escape us to-morrow. Candidly, I am enjoying myself immensely."

"Then there is nothing more to be said," cried Irene, yielding somewhat to his buoyancy. "Shall
we go on, or wait here for the kafila to overtake us."

"Unless I am greatly mistaken," said Dick, looking at his watch, "we shall find the usual oasis
hidden in a depression about two miles ahead. Our excellent sheikh, Abdur Kad'r, times the
morning march to end precisely at ten o'clock. It is now a quarter to nine. Our camels march
two and a half miles per hour, and we are three quarters of a mile ahead. Therein, Miss Fenshawe,
yea have a first-rate example of deductive reasoning, so I propose that we advance steadily,
and look for a cluster of palms. If, happily, their shade is not taken up by other wanderers,
you will be out of the sun long before the caravan arrives. What say you?"

"Some day I shall stamp my foot and say 'No'--shriek it at you, in fact. I hate any one who
is always right, and you seem to be utterly different since we left the Aphrodite. I have never
seen such a change in a man. One would think you were born in the desert. And you are learning
Arabic ten times more quickly than I."

"I do not find favor in your eyes this morning, though it is good to know that I have reformed,
since, by your own showing, I must have been always wrong aboard ship," said Dick, remounting.

"Oh, it is a perfect luxury to have some one to pitch into," cried the girl, stirring the Somali
with her heel.

"But won't you tell me what I have done that vexes you, Miss Fenshawe?"

"You are absurd. You pretend that you see nothing, whereas I am sure you see more than I, but
you refuse to speak."

Royson seemed to be singularly unaffected by this outburst. He caught the angry flush on the
girl's forehead, and, as was his way when the stubborn fit seized him, threw his head back,
with lips set. Irene stole a look at him, and laughed constrainedly.

"Very well. If you won't talk I must," she said with a great air of determination. "It is about
Mrs. Haxton."

"A most interesting topic," said Royson.

"That is what my grandfather seems to think."

"He told me last night that he considers her a singularly well-informed woman."

"For well-informed read artful," exclaimed the girl bitterly. "Have you forgotten what I said
to you in the canal? When we began our voyage Mrs. Haxton and the Baron were as good as engaged.
Now they have reached some agreement which permits Mrs. Haxton to fly for higher matrimonial
game than a penniless adventurer."

"Do you really think that?"

Royson had grown suddenly serious. He half turned in the saddle so as to seek the added inspiration
of Irene's expression, but she kept her eyes studiously averted, and the broad-brimmed pith
hat she wore helped to conceal her face. But she answered readily.

"I am quite certain of it. How else could I discuss it with you?"

"The view I take is that she merely wishes to give von Kerber every chance. So long as Mr.
Fenshawe remains interested--beguiled, if you like--she switches his thoughts away from the
object of our journey. Your grandfather is a masterful man, Miss Fenshawe. If he suspected
that we were following a wild-goose chase he would turn south again this very hour."

"Yet I am sure of my ground," she persisted.

Royson's horse started and shied. A small brown snake, coiled up in the sunlight, and almost
invisible amidst the stones, squirmed rapidly into a crevice beneath a rock. Such incidents
in the desert were too frequent to demand comment. Dick patted the Arab's neck and soon soothed
him.

"Failing our discovery of this fabled treasure, I can appreciate Mrs. Haxton's willingness
to many a millionaire," he went on. "Yet there are difficulties in the way. That viper reminds
me of one. Would not von Kerber object?"

"No," said Irene.

They jogged along in silence for some distance. The girl added nothing, to her emphatic monosyllable.
Dick felt a tugging at his heart-strings which was becoming a dangerously frequent symptom.

"As you have favored me with your confidence thus far, won't you take the next step, and tell
me why you credit Baron von Kerber with such complaisance?" he demanded.

"A woman should not always be asked for reasons, Mr. Royson," said she lightly.

"In the graver events of life one wishes for them, nevertheless."

"Perhaps we are deviating from the chief issue," she countered. "If only I could persuade grandad
that he is being wilfully misled, things might go as I wish. Can't you help, Mr. Royson?"

Then she turned her face to his, and the temptation that had gripped him many a time of late
came back with an intensity that was almost unendurable. He did not flinch from her steadfast
eyes. Though the path of honor was steep and straight he must tread it to the end.

"If I tell your grandfather what little I know of these people I break my word," he said harshly.
"That is the only reply I can make, Miss Fenshawe. May I add the ignoble argument that any
such breach of faith on my part would probably be useless? You ought to sympathize with me."

"Why?" she said coldly.

"Because it is not often that a man is tortured as I am by a conflict between duty and--and
desire."

"There is our palm grove," she cried, pointing to a few stunted trees whose fronds showed above
the rock-strewn bank of a small wady, or ravine, which cut through the center of the shelving
plateau they were crossing. "The ground is fairly clear here. Shall we try a canter?"

Without waiting for a reply she pressed her pony into a steady gallop. Royson responded to
her wayward mood, and followed her lead. Though the sun was so hot that their hands would have
blistered if unprotected by gloves, the clean, dry air-current created by the rapid motion
was exhilarating in the extreme. They were riding through a lost continent, yet its savage
ruin was sublimely beautiful. The comparatively level spot that allowed the luxury of a gallop
was made up of sand and stones, with here and there a black rock thrusting its bold contour
above the shingle. A curiously habitable aspect was given to the desert by numbers of irregular
alluvial mounds which, on examination, were found to consist of caked soil held together by
the roots of trees. So, at one time, this arid plain had borne a forest. To the mind's eye,
here lay the dead earth's burial-place.

Ages ago a torrent had fertilized the surrounding tract, and its dried- up bed was marked by
water-smoothed boulders. Here and there, small groups of dwarf bushes, covered with dagger-like
thorns, drew sustenance from secret rills of moisture. The camel path they followed had the
distinctness of daily use, though no recognized kafila had passed that way during the previous
year, new trade routes to the interior having drawn the caravans in other directions. Soon
it turned up the side of the ravine. The sayall bushes began to grow more densely, and the
wady spread to a great width. Beyond a patch of pebbles lay a brown carpet of tough grass.
In the center stood seven date-trees and a considerable number of stunted bushes, these latter
differing from the sayall only in the size of their thorns, which were fully two inches long
and seemingly untouchable. Yet, next to water, the thorn-crop constituted the chief wealth
of the oasis, because camels would munch the tough spines with great relish.

The camping-place appeared to be untenanted. Royson found the footprints of gazelles wherever
the sand had collected in a hollow, but the animals must have scampered away unseen towards
the barren hills near at hand. Through an occasional gap there were glimpses of the mighty
ramparts of Abyssinia. It was hard to realize that the dainty gazelle could find food in this
desolate land. Yet, with the inborn instinct of the hunter and scout, Royson unslung his carbine
and held it across the saddle-bow as he urged his horse slightly in front of the short-striding
Somali. When he drew rein he rose in the stirrups to peer through the barrier of thorns.

"First come, first served," he cried joyously. "We have the forage to ourselves, Miss Fenshawe.
I shall be sorry for any others who come this way after our host has passed. Look at it now.
It is an absolute army. We shall strip this poor little garden of the desert as locusts are
said to eat up a cornfield."

Irene slipped from the saddle, loosened the girths, and then glanced at the distant caravan,
which had just become visible again on the sky- line of the plateau. It was more than likely
that no such mixed gathering of men and animals had taken that road since the destruction of
forests converted the country into a wilderness. The party from the yacht numbered eighteen;
there were fifty Bedawi Arabs in attendance on a hundred camels; eight horses, Arabs or Somali
ponies, each required a syce, while the sheikh who had brought the caravan from Pajura was
overlord of a score of hangers-on who figured in his list as servants.

A thin haze of dust rose as this regiment advanced. In that wonderful light its progress might
be marked twenty miles away by keen eyes. The girl watched it silently for a time, while Royson,
knowing the manner in which the camp would be formed, picketed the two horses so as not to
interfere with the general arrangements.

Then he lit a cigarette and rejoined Irene.

"How far distant is the head of the caravan now?" she asked.

"Nearly two miles. It looks more like two furlongs," said he, divining her thought, for it
was easy to discern Mrs. Haxton, wrapped in a gray dust-cloak, on a splendid riding camel in
advance of the main body; beside her, on Arab horses, were Mr. Fenshawe and von Kerber, the
latter having just ridden up from the rear.

"Does one's sight become better, then, by residence in this strange land?" murmured the girl.

Royson deliberately ignored the less obvious significance of the words.

"I think so," he said. "When all is said and done, desert and sea are akin, and most certainly
a sea voyage benefits the eyes. Yet, now that you mention it, the atmosphere is remarkably
clear to-day."

"Are you weather-wise, Mr. Royson? Is not that a sign of storm?"

"I sought instruction from Sheikh Abdur Kad'r on that very point only this morning. He says
that the Kamsin does not blow at this season, and there is every reason to believe that it
has not rained in this locality during the past three hundred years."

"Dear me! Three--hun-dred--years!" "Yes. Sorry, but I can't make it any less." "Then you may
give Sheikh Abdur Kad'r my compliments and tell him I predict either a thunderstorm or some
unusual disturbance before night. Mrs. Haxton has a very effective smile, I admit, but it requires
exceptional charm to make a smile distinctly visible at--how far did you say?--two miles?"

The lady in question was certainly bending towards Mr. Fenshawe, and the smile was a reasonable
conjecture. But they had tacitly agreed to forget their earlier conversation. They chatted
freely now with the friendly ease that was their wont ever since the exigencies of camp life
had thrown them together far more than was possible on board ship. Five weeks ago the Aphrodite
dropped anchor off Pajura after crossing from Aden, where Mr. Fenshawe had despatched his cablegrams
and obtained a portion of the equipment needed for the desert tour. The arrival of such a large
party occasioned no little excitement at the French port. That tiny station had not seen so
many white faces at one time since its establishment, and, when its polite Commandant recovered
from his voluble surprise, he warned Mr. Fenshawe that the interior was somewhat unsafe. But
stories of Arab unrest were familiar to the veteran. He had heard them regularly during the
preceding thirty years, and he was more than ever bent on outwitting the jealous rivals who
had placed such obstacles in his path.

The French officers at Pajura thought he was rather cracked to take ladies with him, yet they
were obliged to admit that desert travel was healthy and enjoyable, provided supplies were
ample, and, on this score, the skilled explorer of Soudan by-ways showed that he had lost none
of his cunning. Before the caravan started news came from Aden that the Cigno had been dragged
off her sandspit. This gave an added value to the land route, as the coast of Erythrea was
assuredly closed to them; the French authorities, on the other hand, rendered every assistance
in their power.

And now, after a month of steady marching, the caravan was well within Italian territory. The
route lay parallel with the sea, but nearly a hundred miles distant from it. It traversed the
interminable wadys and shelving table-lands leading down to the coast from the granite and
pink Nubian stone foothills of the inner range of giants which guarded the fertile valleys
of Abyssinia. Thus far, no unexpected difficulties had cropped up. The few nomads encountered
were only too anxious to be friendly. The weather, scorching by day and intensely cold by night,
was quite bearable. Indeed, to any one in good health, it supplied a marvelous tonic. Travelers
less admirably equipped might have suffered annoyance from the snakes and scorpions which seem
to thrive in the midst of sunburnt desolation, but these voyageurs de luxe slept in hammocks
slung in roomy tents, and assiduous servants dislodged every stone before they spread the felt
carpets on which the heaven-born deigned to sit at meals.

Yet--as Irene had guessed correctly--this magnificent progress through the desert contained
a canker that threatened its destruction. Either von Kerber's calculations were at fault, or
the papyrus was a madman's screed. The caravan was already two marches beyond the point agreed
on by every authority consulted as that fixed by the Greek who survived the massacre of the
Roman legion. The unhappy Austrian could no more identify the Five Hills mentioned in the papyrus
as the essential clue to the whereabouts of the treasure than a man in an unknown forest can
distinguish a special group of five trees. That is to say, he may blunder on them by chance,
but he cannot find them by using his judgment. As Irene put it, here were not five, but five
thousand hills. The mortal puzzle before von Kerber was to pick his five.

When the caravan arrived at the halting-place the tense solitude gave way to pandemonium. Camels
grunted and squealed in eager plaint to be relieved of their loads, horses neighed and fought
for the best tufts of grass, men raged at each other as though the work of preparing the camp
were something new and wholly unexpected.

Through the turmoil strode Abdur Kad'r, a lean, saturnine Arab, who anathematized all his assistants
indiscriminately, only varying his epithets according to the nationality of the man under the
lash of his tongue at the moment.

"Bestir yourself, illegitimate one. Are we to await the setting sun ere the tents are fixed?"
he shouted at a negro who was bothered by a knotted rope. A crash behind him told that a too-zealous
Arab had tumbled a box to the ground.

"Oh, you owl, what evil have you done?" roared the Sheikh, transfixing the culprit with a glittering
eye.

"Lo, I loosened a strap, honored one, and the accursed thing fell," was the explanation.

"It fell, eh? So shall my whip fall, Sidi Hassan, if thou art not more painstaking." He rushed
towards a group of Somali syces.

"Pigs, and children of pigs," he cried, "for what does the Effendi pay ye? Is there not occupation,
ye black dogs? May your fathers' graves be defiled by curs!"

Stump, whose rubicund visage was burnt brick-red by the desert, took a keen interest in Abdur
Kad'r's daily outpourings. He had no Arabic, but he appreciated the speaker's fluency.

"He'd make a bully good bo's'n," was his favorite comment, and he would add sorrowfully, "I
wish I knew wot he was sayin'. It 'ud do me a treat."

In an astonishingly short space of time the camp would be in form, fires lit with parched shrubs
gathered during the last stage of the journey, a meal cooked, and every one settled down to
rest until sunset, when, if there was no evening march, the Arabs and negroes would sing, and
perhaps indulge in amazingly realistic sword-play, while the dozen sailors brought from the
yacht would watch the combatants or engage in a sing-song on their own account.

The present encampment offered no exception to the general rule. Abdur Kad'r, it is true, may
have raged a little more extensively than usual when it was discovered that the well had caved
in from sheer disuse, and several hours' labor would be necessary before some brackish water
could be obtained. He did not trouble the Effendi with this detail, however. There was another
more pressing matter to be dealt with, but, Allah be praised, that might wait till a less occupied
hour, for the Frank was in no hurry, and he paid like a Kaliph.

About four o'clock Irene was sitting in her tent making some belated jottings in a diary. Being
thirsty, she called a servant, and told him to bring a bottle of soda-water. A few minutes
later she heard a stumble, a crash, and a loud exclamation in Arabic. The man had fallen over
one of the heavy stones to which the guy-ropes were fastened.

She looked up smilingly, and wondered whether he would understand her if she said in French
that she hoped he had not injured himself. The glass was broken, but the bottle was intact,
for the native had caught it as he fell.

"Ca ne fait rien," she cried encouragingly. Then she found that the Somali had risen to his
knees, and was gazing skyward with every token of abject terror. At the same instant a strange
commotion broke out in the camp. Through the open side of the tent she saw Europeans and natives
all looking in the one direction--northwards. The Britons and Arabs had an air of profound
astonishment. They pointed and gesticulated, but otherwise showed self-control. But the negroes
were in a panic. For the most part they were kneeling. A few prostrated themselves at full
length, and howled dolorously.

The girl was alone, and she naturally felt alarmed. Royson was not far away, and he, like the
rest, was held spellbound by some spectacle the nature of which she could not guess. Perhaps
his thoughts were not far removed from Irene, because he turned and looked at her.

"Come quickly, Miss Fenshawe," he shouted. "Here is the most wonderful mirage!"

Was that it--a mirage? Why, then, this hubbub? She had grown so accustomed to the grim humor
of the desert in depicting clear streams of running water, smooth, tree-bordered lakes, and
other delightful objects of which the arid land dreamed in its sleep of death, that the excitement
caused in the camp was wholly inexplicable.

"What are you doing there?" she cried sharply to the frightened servant. "Go and get another
glass, and take care you do not fall next time."

If he heard he paid no heed. He continued to stare at the sky with wide-open eyes.

Conscious of a fresh thrill of fear, she ran towards Royson.

"What in the world--"

Then she saw, and was stricken dumb with the sight, for she was looking at a spectacle which
the desert seldom provides even to those who pass their lives within its bounds. A thin haze
had taken the place of the remarkable clearness of the morning hours. Away to the north it
had deepened almost into a fog, a low-lying and luminous mist like the white pall which often
shrouds the sea on a calm bright day in summer. The sky was losing its burnished copper hue
and becoming blue again, and, on the false horizon supplied by the crest of the fog-bank, stood
a brilliantly vivid panorama.

There were military tents, lines of picketed camels and horses, a great number of Arabs and
blacks, and some fifty Italian soldiers, all magnified to gigantic proportions, but so clearly
defined that the trappings of the animals, the military uniforms, and the gay-colored burnous
of the Arabs were readily distinguishable.

It could be seen, too, that they were working. Mounds of rock and earth showed that considerable
excavations had been made. While those gathered round the well were yet gazing at this bewildering
and lifelike picture, the moving ghosts in the sky underwent a change which enhanced their
realism. One squad of soldiers and natives marched off towards the tents while another took
their places. Were it not for the grotesque size of men and animals and the eerie silence of
their movements it was hard to believe that the eyes were not witnessing actualities. The thing
was fantastic, awe-inspiring, stupendous in design, but faultlessly true in color and treatment.
No artist could ever hope for such a canvas. Its texture was vapor, its background the empyrean,
and nature's own palette supplied the colors.

And this cloud scene was pitiless in its moral. Two of the onlookers, Mrs. Haxton and von Kerber,
knew exactly what it meant, while others read its message correctly enough. The expedition
was forestalled. The long voyage and longer march, the vast expenditure, the hardships inseparable
from the journey through the desert, the hopes, the fears, all the planning and contriving,
went for nothing, since Alfieri the dreamer, Alfieri the fool, had apparently succeeded in
locating the treasure of Sheba.

CHAPTER XIV

WHEREIN A BISHARIN CAMEL BECOMES USEFUL

To the Arab every white man is a Frank. The European invader was given that name during the
First Crusade, and the Paynim does not change appreciably with the centuries. But he has learnt
to differentiate between certain varieties of Frank, and Abdur Kad'r murmured maledictions
on the Italian species as he watched the mirage slowly fading into nothingness. Though no one
had told him the ultimate objective of the caravan, he felt that the presence of Italian soldiers
at the nearest stopping-place put a bar to further progress. The mere fact that the kafila
came from French territory was unanswerable. There were difficulties enough already, difficulties
which must be discussed that evening, but this obstacle was wholly unforeseen.

Under his bent brows the gaunt sheikh had noted Mr. Fenshawe's manner when he turned excitedly
to demand an explanation from von Kerber. The Effendi's change of tone told its own tale. Abdur
Kad'r, true believer and desert-born, remarked to a brother Arab that Allah was Allah and Mahomet
was undoubtedly the Prophet, but that of all the misbegotten produce of swine now cumbering
the earth the Italians ranked easily first--or words to that effect. Then he relieved his feelings
by objurgating the panic-stricken Somalis, whose superstitious minds interpreted the appearance
of the air-borne host as a sure indication of war. He was in the midst of an eloquent outburst
when his employer summoned him.

"How far is it to the next oasis?" came the dreaded query.

Abdur Kad'r, shrewd judge of men, knew that he must be explicit.

"Sixty kilometers, honored one," he replied.

"What! Nearly forty English miles?"

"It may be so, Effendi. In our reckoning it is twenty kos and one kos is three kilometers."

"But these Italians--in the mirage--they must be camped near water?"

"There is none nearer than the Well of Suleiman, Effendi."

"Is it possible that a mirage would reveal so clearly a scene taking place at such a distance?"

"Strange things happen in the desert, Effendi. I have seen a village in the sky which my camels
were four hours in reaching, and I have been told of sights even more wonderful."

"You are sure about the sixty kilometers?"

"Quite sure, O worthy of honor."

Mr. Fenshawe was skeptical. Mirage-phenomena were familiar to him, but never had they dealt
with natural objects beyond a range of a few miles. For the most part, the mirage of the desert
is a baseless illusion, depending on the bending of light-rays by air strata of differing densities.
The rarer "looming," witnessed occasionally in more northerly latitudes, shows scenes actually
in existence, and the best authenticated instance of a long-range view is that testified to
by the inhabitants of Hastings, who during three hours on July 26, 1798, saw the whole coastline
of France, from Calais to Dieppe, with a distinctness that was then regarded as miraculous.

But, whether Abdur Kad'r's figures were correct or not, there was no gainsaying the evidence
of the mirage itself. The collapse of the undertaking was imminent, and the millionaire's tone
was exceedingly curt when he called von Kerber to conference.

"There are certain matters which must be cleared up, now that nature has assumed the role of
guide," he said dryly. "I have been well aware during the past few days that you were not able
to fix on the exact place described in the papyrus. I could pardon that. We are in a country
where landmarks are bewilderingly alike, and therefore apt to cause confusion. But how comes
it that our rivals can go straight to the place we are in search of, while we wander blindly
in the desert? You assured me that yours was the only copy of the papyrus extant with the sole
exception of the photographic reproductions supplied to me. Is that true? And, if it is true,
who gave these others the information that has brought about our failure?"

Mr. Fenshawe's pride was wounded. All the wrath of the disappointed connoisseur welled forth
in his contemptuous words. Their very calmness and precision showed the depth of his anger,
and von Kerber, like Abdur Kad'r, felt that the time for specious pretext had gone. So he answered,
with equal exactness of phrase:

"I gave you that assurance months ago in Scotland, and repeated it in London, but I have not
said it since we met on board the yacht, for the very good reason that the papyrus was stolen
from me at Marseilles."

"Stolen!"

"Yes, I was waylaid and robbed while driving from the station to the harbor."

"Purposely, do you mean? Was the papyrus the object of the attack?"

"Yes."

"Then this man, Alfieri, knew of it?"

"I have never concealed that from you."

"It is hard to say what you have or have not concealed, Baron von Kerber. My confidence in
you is shaken. How am I to know that this latest version of Alfieri's amazing interference
in your affairs is the true one?"

No man is so sensitive of his honor as he who is conscious of by-gone lapses. Von Kerber started
as though the other had stabbed him.

"That is an unworthy imputation," he cried. "Mr. Royson can tell you that the papyrus was stolen.
He rescued me from my assailants, yes? Mrs. Haxton is aware of it, and, unless I am mistaken,
Miss Fenshawe also is no stranger to the news, seeing that our second mate is so greatly in
her confidence."

The older man, still watching the last wraiths of the mirage, seemed to be deaf to the Austrian's
biting allusion to Irene.

"I did not look for such a web of deceit," he murmured. "The papyrus was genuine, and I sought
no other proof of honesty. You say Mrs. Haxton and my granddaughter are in this pact of silence.
Let us have their testimony."

Irene, as might be expected, indignantly disclaimed any sympathy with von Kerber's methods.

"I heard, by chance, of the part Mr. Royson took in the affair at Marseilles," she said. "My
maid told me. It was the gossip of the ship. Yet, when I questioned Mr. Royson himself, he
refused to discuss the matter, owing to some pledge of secrecy drawn from him by Baron von
Kerber. You forget, grandad, how often you have told me that I did not understand this undertaking
sufficiently to justify my hostility to it. I have never believed in it, not for one moment.
If you wish to know what happened at Marseilles, why not ask Mr. Royson himself?"

"Yes," said Mr. Fenshawe quietly, "that will be well. Send for him, Irene."

It was noteworthy that he addressed no question to Mrs. Haxton. That lady, nervous and ill-at-ease,
could not guess how far the rupture between von Kerber and his patron had gone. She felt intuitively
that the Austrian was puzzled, perhaps alarmed, by the presence of an official expedition in
the very territory he had hoped to explore without hindrance--yet his manner hinted at something
in reserve. Though he quivered under Irene's outspoken incredulity, his aspect was that of
a man whose schemes have been foiled by sheer ill-luck. A rogue unmasked will grovel: von Kerber
was defiant. For the moment, Mrs. Haxton was struck dumb with foreboding. Mr. Fenshawe's. dejected
air showed that a deadly blow had been dealt to the project to which she had devoted all her
resources since the beginning of the march. She, too, had begun to doubt. Here, in the desert,
the buried treasure was an intangible thing. In England, the promises of the Greek's dying
message were satisfying by their very vagueness. In Africa, face to face with the tremendous
solitude, they became unbelievable, a dim fable akin to the legends of vanished islands and
those mysterious races to be found only in unknown lands, which have tickled the imaginations
of mankind, ever since the dawn of human intelligence. So, a live millionaire being a more
definite asset than the hoard of a forgotten city, she had coolly informed von Kerber that
if he wished to improve his fortunes, he would do well to pay attention to Miss Fenshawe, and
leave her free to win a wealthy husband. It was a villainous pact, but it might have succeeded,
at any rate in Mrs. Haxton's case, for no woman could be more gracious and deferentially flattering
than she when she chose to exert herself. And now, reality seemed to yield to unreality. The
substantial fabric of close friendship between Fenshawe and herself had crumbled before the
fiery breath of the wilderness. What a turn of fortune's wheel! Here were all her plans shattered
in an instant, and the man on whom depended the future changed into a hostile judge.

Royson found a queer conclave awaiting him. Irene, distressed by the injustice of her grandfather's
suspicion that she was sharing in a conspiracy of silence, had retired to a corner of the tent,
and wore an air of indifference which she certainly did not feel. Mrs. Haxton, pallid, striving
desperately to regain her self-possession, draped herself artistically in a comfortable camp
chair. Von Kerber, scowling and depressed, stood near the entrance, and Mr. Fenshawe was seated
in the center of the tent. The red light of the declining sun was full on his face, and Dick
fancied that he had aged suddenly. Nor was this to be wondered at. No enthusiast, not even
a wealthy one, likes to have his hopes of realizing a great achievement dashed to the ground,
nor is it altogether gratifying that a woman who has won one's high esteem should be associated
with a piece of contemptible trickery.

Mr. Fenshawe's first question told Dick that a serious dispute was toward.

"It has been stated," said Mr. Fenshawe, looking at him in a curiously critical way, "that
a valuable document was stolen from Baron von Kerber at Marseilles--what do you know about it?"

Dick, hourly expecting a strenuous turn to the placid marching and camping of the past few
weeks, was not taken unaware. He had mapped out a clear line, and meant to follow it.

"I regret to say that I cannot answer you, Mr. Fenshawe," said he, meeting the older man's
searching glance unflinchingly.

"Why not?"

"Because I gave an undertaking to that effect to Baron von Kerber."

"But I am your employer, not he."

"No, sir. That is not my view of the contract I signed."

"Have you a copy of that contract'?"

"Yes."

"Will you show it to me?"

"That is unnecessary," broke in von Kerber, with a savage impatience of the quasi-judicial
inquiry which Mr. Fenshawe was evidently bent on conducting. "I give Mr. Royson full permission
to answer any question you may put to him."

"You do, eh? You give permission? Do you pay his salary?" demanded the millionaire indignantly.

"Yes, on your behalf. Surely the arrangement between us cannot be disputed. I was to make all
arrangements, yes?"

"As my paid agent, you should add."

Mrs. Haxton suddenly sat forward in her chair.

"We had a tacit agreement for an equal division of the spoil," she interposed, with an acidity
that Mr. Fenshawe probably found in marked contrast with her usual honeyed speech.

"That agreement would have been kept by me," said Fenshawe. "You may not be aware that Baron
von Kerber pleaded poverty, and I promised to remunerate him for his services, whether we won
or lost. I have no doubt he has my letter, duly stamped at Somerset House, carefully packed
away with Mr. Royson's agreement."

The retort was in the nature of the tac-au-tac riposte beloved of the skilled swordsman. It
was succeeded by a tense silence. Mrs. Haxton glared at the Baron. The ghost of a smile flickered
on Irene's lips as she glanced at Dick. Von Kerber swished one of his boots viciously with
a riding-whip. He found he must say something.

"Why are we creating difficulties where none exist?" he snarled. "If the agreement stands in
the way, I absolve Mr. Royson from any promise he has made. I wanted to guard against treachery,
not to tie him down to serve me exclusively."

"You asked for obedience and a still tongue, Baron. I have given you both," said Dick.

"There is your employer, and mine--speak."

Von Kerber could not be other than dramatic. He pointed to Mr. Fenshawe with a fine gesture.

"I have not much to say, unless in the form of opinions. You certainly were attacked at Marseilles,
and you yourself charged one of your assailants with stealing the papyrus. Beyond that, I know
little of your business, though, from letters and cablegrams which reached me at various places,
it seems to have been quite extensively known in London."

"Who was your informant?" asked Fenshawe.

"A solicitor named Forbes. He is not personally acquainted with Baron von Kerber, but this
man Alfieri, of whom we have heard so much, employed private detectives. They, in the course
of events, discovered my identity, and met Mr. Forbes. It is only fair to Baron von Kerber
to say that I have never heard his version of the charge brought against him by Alfieri."

"I have," said the millionaire, grimly.

There was no mistaking the inference to be drawn from his words. Von Kerber was wholly discredited.
It was exceedingly probable that the first march of the return journey to Pajura would be ordered
forthwith. Indeed, Fenshawe rose to his feet, meaning to bid Abdur Kad'r prepare to strike
camp after the evening meal, when Mrs. Haxton, divining his intent, cried shrilly:

"May I ask what new circumstance has brought about this remarkable change in your plans, Mr.
Fenshawe? It is true that we have been favored by an extraordinary vision of an Italian expedition
at no great distance from our own, but what proof have we that it is successful, or even engaged
on an errand similar to ours?"

"The mere fact that extensive research is being carried on is sufficiently convincing. Italian
soldiers and Arabs do not form huge earthworks in the desert for amusement," said Fenshawe.

"They may be trying a last desperate chance," she retorted.

"You forget that they have the same information as ourselves. There is no trouble in deciphering
demotic Greek and the hieroglyph minerals are quite simple. Once the papyrus left Baron von
Kerber's possession, our exclusive right to it vanished, and you can hardly expect me to engage
in an armed attack on the military forces of a friendly nation."

"So far as the papyrus goes, it is utterly useless to any one," broke in von Kerber suddenly.

Mr. Fenshawe was stirred out of his studied calm by the seeming absurdity of the interruption.

"Useless!" he exclaimed, and his brow seamed with anger, "that is a strange word to apply to
the only evidence of your story that you have ever produced."

"I always feared Alfieri," said the other, throwing his hands out as if he were pushing away
a threatening phantom. "He was spiteful, and jealous, and he knew enough to drive him mad with
desire. But I would allow no one to interfere with me, yes? When I was sure of my ground, when
I had secured translations of each piece of the papyrus, I altered it."

"Altered it!"

Incredulity and hope were oddly mixed in the cry which came simultaneously from the lips of
two of his hearers. Even Irene and Dick, less wrapped up in the dream of finding the Sabaean
hoard, awaited von Kerber's next utterance with bated breath. The man was too unnerved to feel
any triumph at the sensation he had created.

"Yes," he said, sinking wearily into a chair, though his voice almost cracked with excitement.
"I changed the distances in every instance permitted by the text. As it stands now, the papyrus
is utterly worthless. I acted for the best, yes? A secret known to more than one ceases to
be a secret. But I am tired of pretense, and you shall have the truth, though it carries with
it a confession of ghastly failure. I do not know what good fortune Alfieri has blundered into
at Suleiman's Well, and I admit that the place offered my own last chance. Yet, if he has found
the treasure, it was not because of the papyrus, but despite it. Here are photographs of every
section in their present form," and he produced some prints from a pocket-book.

"You were taught some Greek at school, Mr. Royson? Very well. Look at the passages which are
faintly underlined, and you will, see where I have altered whole phrases, converted tens of
miles into hundreds, and hundreds of paces into thousands. And that is the document which Alfieri
obtained at Marseilles. He would recognize it as the original, though it is now quite misleading.
If he is digging at the right place by reason of the directions given there, it is something
beyond belief, yes?"

"You speak of Alfieri recognizing the papyrus. Evidently, then, he had seen it earlier. In
what manner was he connected with its discovery?"

Mr. Fenshawe's coldly direct question came in sharp contrast with the Austrian's impassioned
outburst. Von Kerber did not reply. With his elbows resting on his knees, and supporting his
chin between clenched fists, he looked through the open door of the tent with eyes that stared
into vacancy. The man was in a frenzy of despair. He saw the chance of his life slipping away
from him, but he could urge no plea in his own behalf. It was Mrs. Haxton who answered, and
her composure was oddly at variance with von Kerber's distress.

"Alfieri was assistant curator of a museum at Naples when the Italian occupation of Erythrea
led to his appointment as government archeologist in this territory," she said. "My husband
was in charge of the Red Sea cable at that time, and Signor Giuseppe Alfieri was a friend of
ours. An Arab named Abdullah El Jaridiah, grubbing among old tombs for curios, came across
a roll of papyri. He sold it to Alfieri for a few francs, and Alfieri gave it to my husband."

She paused; she was not a woman who said too much.

"I take it that Alfieri knew no Greek?" said Mr. Fenshawe, with a touch of irony that was not
lost on the lady.

"He certainly failed to appreciate its importance," was the quiet response. "My husband deciphered
most of the narrative, but he, in his turn, had no knowledge of hieroglyphics, and, as you
are aware, many of the words and figures are contained in ovals, or cartouches, and written
in Egyptian characters. He would have learnt their meaning from some other source, but he--died--very
suddenly. An accident caused Alfieri to suspect the value of the papyrus, and he asked me to
return it. Unfortunately, I led him to believe that I would meet his wish, but Baron von Kerber,
who, as you know, was medical officer to a German mission to King Menelek, came to my assistance
at the time, and I told him of my husband's views with regard to the portion he had translated.
Baron von Kerber read the hieroglyphics, though he had to wait nearly a year before he could
obtain expert advice as to the accuracy of his rendering. Meanwhile, Signor Alfieri and I had
quarreled. I may as well tell you that he was pestering me to marry him, and I grew to hate
the man. Then I returned to England, and a friend suggested that I should endeavor to interest
you. Now you have the whole story, so far as I am concerned in it."

"If that is so, it would have been better had you taken me into your confidence at the outset,"
said Fenshawe.

"Alfieri was using threats. I feared the loss of your co-operation if a melodramatic element
were introduced."

"But are not you and Baron von Kerber, and, as it would seem, your Italian admirer also, attributing
an absurdly fictitious value to the find? People do not pay high prices for old coins merely
because they are historic. I have always regarded this treasure-trove as purely antiquarian
in its interest. It may contain some vessels or statuettes worth money; but to what extent?
Certainly not such fabulous sums as you appear to imagine."

Mrs. Haxton smiled sourly.

"We are dealing in candor," she cried. "Pray complete your confession, Baron von Kerber."

The Austrian did not abandon his dejected pose, but he took up the parable readily.

"There is one slip of papyrus you have never seen, Mr. Fenshawe," he said. "Perhaps you have
been surprised that such a careful scribe as Demetriades gave no details of the loot? I kept
them back. There were fifty camel-loads of precious vessels and rare stuffs brought from the
East. There were one hundred and twenty camel-loads of gold coins, and two camels carried leather
wallets filled with pearls and rubies and diamonds."

Irene could not restrain a little gasp of wonderment at von Kerber's amazing catalogue. Her
grandfather looked at her.

"You were wiser than I, little girl," he murmured. "You warned me that these people were deceiving
me, yet I refused to listen."

"Oh, one has to follow the path that promises success," interrupted von Kerber savagely. "Had
I told you these things you would have been the first to inform the Italian government. Why
do you prate of deceit? Had we found the treasure, you must have seen everything. I only meant
to hold you to your bond and demand my third share. Lieber Gott! if you were not a stiff-necked
Englishman you would now, even at the twelfth hour, force these Italian hirelings to disgorge."

"Meaning that you advise a surprise march on Suleiman's Well, and the massacre of every person
who resists as?" inquired Mr. Fenshawe, acidly impatient.

"Better that than turn back at the very threshold."

"Excellent! The voyage of the Aphrodite would then achieve an international fame which would
survive the ages."

The blank despair in von Kerber's face won Royson's pity. He could not help sympathizing with
him. And there was something to be said for his point of view. If Mrs. Haxton had given the
true version of the finding of the papyrus, the Austrian's methods were comprehensible. Seldom
has poverty been tempted by a vision of such enormous wealth.

"May I make a suggestion, sir?" he asked, seeing that no one was willing to resume a somewhat
acrid conversation.

"As to the form of attack?"

Mr. Fenshawe was still amused by the idea of treating the Italians to a coup de main.

"No. We have made a long journey, and it might at least be determined whether or not it was
justified. Will you allow me and Abdur Kad'r, and, perhaps, one other Arab less widely known
than the sheikh, to try a small experiment. Let us endeavor to enter the Italian camp and find
out what is going on? I can pass easily as a member of a shooting party who has lost his way.
They will not slay me at sight on that account. At any rate, I am quite prepared to risk it."

"The very thing!" exclaimed Mrs. Haxton, springing out of her chair. "Abdullah is there, and
you know him. You must not appear. Let Abdur Kad'r send one of his men into the camp by night.
He will bring Abdullah to you at a preconcerted rendezvous, and Abdullah will tell you what
Alfieri is doing. Better still, let Abdullah come here. If he knows I sent you he will accompany
you without a moment's delay."

"The proper person to go and summon Abdullah is Baron von Kerber," put in Irene tremulously.

"Before I sanction any proceeding of the sort, I wish to ask why Abdullah is apparently in
league with your sworn enemy?" demanded Mr. Fenshawe.

"The Governor of Massowah told me he was despatching an expedition to the Five Hills," said
Mrs. Haxton eagerly. "I was sure it would fail, for reasons which the Baron has explained,
but I bade Abdullah join the kafila, seeing that we could not carry out our first plan of landing
lower down the coast. Then, if the Italian party received news of our whereabouts, Abdullah
would steal away and warn us. The mere fact that he is not here now shows that our presence
in this locality is altogether unsuspected." Fenshawe seemed to weigh his words before he answered.

"I prefer that Mr. Royson should go, and not Baron von Kerber," said he. "On the understanding
that he interferes with our rivals in no way whatever, I shall be glad of his report. If we
have failed, there is no harm in knowing the facts. May I ask, Baron, have you any other surprises
to give us in the shape of history, ancient or modern?"

"I have nothing else to say," muttered the other.

"Then, as it is nearly dinner-time, I trust we may forget Saba and its legends until we learn
what progress Signor Alfieri has made. You start to-night, Mr. Royson?"

"At the first possible moment, sir."

"No, no. Eat, rest, and travel under the stars. That is the golden rule of a forced march in
the desert. We will give you two nights and a day. Then, if you do not return, I shall send
an open embassy to inquire for you."

Thus it came about that, soon after night fell, three sulky Bisharin camels were led away from
their fellows and compelled to kneel unwillingly to receive their riders. The operation was
attended with much squealing and groaning.

"They love not to leave their brethren," said Abdur Kad'r, pausing to take breath for a fresh
torrent of abuse. The camels were forcibly persuaded, and Royson climbed into the high-peaked
saddle. His last thought, as he quitted the red glare of the camp-fires, was that Irene might
have snatched a few minutes from her rest to bid him farewell. But she was nowhere to be seen,
so after a final hand-shake with Stump, he rode away into the night.

CHAPTER XV

THE DESERT AWAKES

The march Royson had undertaken was a trying one. The desert runs to extremes, and, at that
season, the thermometer varied a hundred degrees between noon and midnight. When the sun dipped
behind the hills, a tense darkness fell on the land. This impenetrable pall is peculiar to
Egypt; probably it suggested to Moses that ninth plague wherewith he afflicted the subjects
of a stubborn Pharaoh. Though this "darkness that may be felt" yields, as a rule, to the brilliancy
of the stars after half an hour's duration, while it lasts a lighted match cannot be seen beyond
a distance of ten or twelve feet. It is due, in all likelihood, to the rapid radiation of surface
heat. When the cold air has robbed sand and rock of the temperature acquired from the broiling
sun, the atmosphere clears, and the desert reveals itself again in the gloomy monotone of night.

It may reasonably be supposed, that the excess of humidity which caused the remarkable mirage
of the afternoon helped to continue the "black hour," as the Arabs term it, far beyond its
ordinary limits. Hence it was nearly ten o'clock when Royson quitted the camp on his self-imposed
task. To all outward semblance, he differed not a jot from the two Arabs who accompanied him.
A burnous and hood covered his khaki riding costume. He bestrode a powerful camel nearly eight
feet high. Like his companions, he carried a slung rifle; a haversack and water-bottle completed
his equipment. His size alone distinguished him from Abdur Kad'r and Sheikh Hussain of Kenneh,
the latter being a man whom Abdur Kad'r had selected as best fitted to win his way unquestioned
into the Italian camp. Royson's Arab dress was intended to secure the party from espionage
while they traveled towards Suleiman's Well. When they neared it he would throw aside the burnous.
His pith helmet was on his saddle, but the Arab hood enabled him to dispense with it by night.

The older Arab led: behind him rode Royson; Hussain brought up the rear. In this fashion they
climbed the slight rise of the wide valley which sheltered the expedition. They had gone some
three hundred yards, and the leader was scanning the horizon for a gap through which the track
passed, when they were all amazed to hear Miss Fenshawe's clear voice.

"I thought you were never coming, Mr. Royson," she said. "I was on the point of going back
to my tent, but I caught the grumbling of your camels. Then I knew that you had really made
a start."

After the first gasp of wonder and delight, Dick slipped to the ground. He narrowly avoided
a spiteful bite from his unwilling conveyance, but he handed the single rein to Abdur Kad'r,
and hastened towards a rock in whose shadow stood Irene, garbed and cloaked so that she was
scarcely discernible.

"I cannot tell you how glad I am to see you, Miss Fenshawe," he cried, "yet, in the same breath,
I must protest against your wandering so far from the camp. Are you alone?"

"You may be sure of that. Otherwise I should not be here." She laughed cheerfully, for the
escapade had in it a spice of adventure, and she wished to give it a lighter turn.

"Then you have news for me?"

"No. You heard all that passed to-day. Since then, my grandfather has refused to discuss the
affair. As a result, Mrs. Haxton and the Baron were snappy during dinner. In fact, they were
unendurable, and I was delighted when they left us."

"It is a hateful thing to have to lecture you," he said, coming nearer, and trying to peer
into her face, "but you know you ought not to take this risk. It is too venturesome. I think
that this section of the desert is fairly clear of any real danger, so far as prowling Bedouins
are concerned, but there are other unpleasant neighbors--in the shape of snakes and scorpions--"

"I am wearing riding boots," she interrupted. "And I shall soon relieve your anxiety by returning
to my hammock. Pray don't trouble about me, Mr. Royson. I have waylaid you with a purpose.
It is too late now, I suppose, to dissuade you from carrying out a useless and absurd journey,
but I do ask you not to commit the further folly of sacrificing your own life, and, perhaps,
the lives of others, in the mistaken belief that you are serving Mr. Fenshawe's interests."

Though she strove to speak in a tone of conventional friendliness, her voice shook a little.
Dick was profoundly moved. It seemed to him suddenly that the burnous he wore exercised a stifling
effect on him. He threw it off, and it fell unheeded to the loose stones at his feet. The girl
laughed again, somewhat tremulously.

"What of those nasty creatures against which you warned me a moment ago?" she exclaimed. "Or
is it that your disguise has become unbearable? You make an astonishingly tall Arab, Mr. Royson.
I should have picked you out anywhere."

That wayward heart of Dick's drove a hot flood of color to his face, but he still held mastery
over his tongue.

"Why do you think I am likely to run into danger?" he asked. For an instant his calmness misled
her. She had grown accustomed to his habit of self-restraint, and looked for nothing else.

"Because you would dare anything rather than fail," she said. "You would ride alone into the
midst of a thousand enemies if you thought that thereby you could attain your ends. And I want
to assure you that I--that Mr. Fenshawe--would object most strenuously to your incurring any
real peril for the sake of the worthless people who have brought us to Africa on a wild-goose
chase. By all means secure for us any possible information that can be obtained through the
Arabs, but I came here because--because I shall feel happier if you promise me--that--you will
avoid this man, Alfieri, and his friends. Did you see the look on Baron von Kerber's face to-day?
I never before realized what the hunger for gold meant. He would kill any one who barred his
path. I could read his very soul. And--and--it frightened me. So you must come back safely,
Mr. Royson, for I have confidence in you and Captain Stump, but I am terrified of what may
happen if von Kerber tells the others the story of the treasure, and promises them a large
share in it, should it be found."

"I had not thought of that," said Dick simply. Indeed, his mind was not at all occupied just
then with von Kerber's scheming.

"So I imagined. And that is why I stole out of my tent and waited here. I was sure you would
agree with me that the really important thing is our speedy return to the yacht. It is the
only possible course. My grandfather never intended to gain his ends by armed force, and von
Kerber is assuredly dreaming of that at this moment."

"I begin to see your point of view," said he, forcing himself to answer her words, though his
brain was weaving other phrases. "Even if I discover that Alfieri is digging up those precious
camel-loads, it will be best for all parties that his success should be minimized."

"Yes, yes," she cried eagerly. "That is my meaning. I do not care what happens so long as we
all reach Pajura. Then let the Baron and Mrs. Haxton do as they choose. Even if they want to
borrow our money and our goods and chattels for the purpose of a second expedition I shall
be the first to support the idea."

"You are not longing, then, for a sight of the Sheban wealth?"

"No. I hate the very thought of it. It is--bloodstained. Oh, Mr. Royson, everything now depends
on you. Please contrive matters so that we shall travel to the coast without delay. That is
all. You understand me, I think. It only remains for me to wish you good-by and God-speed."

She moved a little apart, but Dick's left hand caught her by the shoulder.

"No, Irene, it is not all," he whispered. "I am going now, and I shall return to you, God willing,
within thirty-six hours, and, before I go, I want to kiss you."

He could feel the quiver that shook her slender form at the unexpectedness of it. She uttered
a startled cry, and wondered if she had heard aright, but she yielded to the clasp of an encircling
arm. Perhaps she lifted her face in sheer amazement; be that as it may, Dick kissed her, not
once, but many times.

"May Heaven guard and keep you, sweetheart," he said brokenly. "You know that I love you. You
have known it many a day, but I forced myself to be silent because I was proud. Now my pride
has given way to the joy of whispering that I love you. To-morrow, that stubborn pride of mine
may rebuke me, and say that I had no right to take you to my heart to- night, but to-night
my love laughs at all that idle pretense of money erecting a barrier between you and me. You
are dearer to me than life, and why should I not tell you so? I wanted to meet you to-night,
Irene. I made plaint to the stars when I did not see you at parting. Now that you are here,
I find myself at the gates of Paradise. Yet you must leave me now, dear one. Let me carry the
fragrance of your kiss on my lips until the dawn. Then, in the chill of morning, when cold
reason chides me, I shall refuse to listen to her, for I shall remember that Irene kissed me."

The girl clung to him during a blissful instant.

"Oh!" she sighed, and "Oh!" again as though her heart was throbbing its life out. Then she
murmured:

"You have not even asked me if I loved you, King Dick!"

With that she glanced up at him, and placed both hands on his shoulders.

"No," he said. "I only asked you to kiss me. I shall ask for your love when I may come without
reproach and ask you to be my wife."

"Dick," she said, with adorable shyness, "it is not yet to-morrow."

He strained her to his breast. Their lips met again rapturously.

"Oh, my sweet," he said, "has ever man received more angelic answer to a question that filled
his heart with longing throughout many days?"

"Yet you are leaving me, and of your own accord."

"Irene--you, too, are proud. Would you have me return now?"

"No. I know now that fate has chosen you to decide our fortunes. Go, Dick, but come back to
me in safety, or my poor little heart will break."

Then, as though afraid of her own weakness, she drew herself from his arms and hurried away
towards the camp. He stood motionless, listening to her footsteps, and his soul sang blithe
canticles the while. At last, when assured that she was within her tent, he picked up the discarded
burnous, strode to the waiting camels, and quickly the desert enfolded him and his dreams in
its great silence.

And Dick thanked the desert for its kindliness, which had made possible that which was beyond
credence. In London, how could a poverty-stricken outcast dare to raise his eyes to the patrician
heiress? He remembered that first glance of hers, and the tactful way in which she had discriminated
between the man who might be glad of a sovereign for the service he had rendered, and him who
would value a woman's thanks far beyond gold. And then, with what quiet dignity she had ignored
his fierce repudiation of von Kerber's offer of recompense. In that bitter hour how might he
foresee the turn of fortune's wheel which in two short months would bring that dainty girl
to his lover's embrace! How delightful it was to hear his nickname from her lips! King Dick!
Well, such bold wooing ran in the blood, and it would go hard with any man, whether Frank or
Saracen, who barred the way between him and his chosen lady. What if her grandfather were fifty
times a millionaire! What had millions to do with love? Precious little, quoth Richard, if
all he had read of rich men's lives were even partly true. He had a twinge or two when he reflected
that, at present, he occupied the position of second mate on Fenshawe's yacht. He pictured
himself asking the old gentleman for Irene's hand in marriage, and being told that he was several
sorts of a lunatic. But the memory of Irene's kisses rendered her grandfather's anticipated
wrath quite bearable, and Dick laughed aloud at the joy and folly of it all, until Sheikh Abdur
Kad'r was moved to say sharply:

"At night, in the desert, Effendi, the ears carry farther than the eyes, so it behooves us
to make no more noise with our tongues than our camels make with their feet."

They journeyed slowly until a wondrous amber light first flooded the eastern horizon and then
tinted the opposite hills with pink coral. Soon, rainbow shades of blue and green began to
blend with the pink, and the undulating plateau they were traversing revealed with startling
suddenness its scattered rocks and patches of loose stones. The camels were urged into a lurching
trot, and thirty miles were covered in less time than it had taken to travel eight during the
dark hours.

Beyond a few gazelles, a pair of marabout storks, and a troup of jackals, they saw no living
creature. But they took every precaution against surprise. If others were on the march they
meant to discover the fact before they were themselves seen. So, when the ground was practicable,
they crossed the sky-line at top speed, hastened through the intervening valley, and crept
in Indian file to the next crest.

The Bisharin camels had long ceased to utter their unavailing growls. Such reasoning powers
as they possessed told them that they must make the best of a bad business, as the lords of
creation on their backs meant to reach the allotted destination without reference to the outraged
feelings of three ill-used animals who had been deprived of a night's rest. Now, a camel has
been taught, by long experience, that the legitimate end of a march is supplied only by something
in the shape of an oasis, no matter how slight may be its store of prickly bushes and wiry
grass. Therefore, these Bisharin brethren must have felt something akin to surprise when they
were tethered and fed in a rock-strewn wady which offered neither food nor water. Animals and
men had to depend on the supplies they had carried thither. Shelter, of course, there was none,
and at nine o'clock the sun was already high in the heavens.

One unhappy beast made a tremendous row when Hussain mounted him again after a brief respite,
and bade him be moving. Nevertheless, protest was useless, and only led to torture. Finally,
squealing and weeping, the camel moved off, while his erstwhile sympathizers regarded him blandly
and unmoved, seeing that they were not disturbed, but permitted to munch in peace the remains
of a meal. Hussain was soon out of sight. According to Abdur Kad'r's calculations, the Italian
camp was in the center of the next important valley. At the utmost, it was three miles distant,
and Hussain's presence early in the forenoon would be more readily accounted for if he put
in an appearance on a camel that was obviously leg-weary.

Royson had given the man explicit instructions. If questioned, he was to state the actual facts--that
an Englishman and himself, with one other Arab, had made a forced march from the nearest oasis,
that his exhausted companions were resting at no great distance, and that he purposed returning
to them with a replenished water-bag and some food for their camels. But, amid the bustle of
a large encampment, it was more than likely that his arrival would pass unnoticed save by his
brother Arabs. In that event, he could satisfy their curiosity without going into details,
ascertain whether or not Abdullah the Spear-thrower was among them, and, by keeping his eyes
and ears open, learn a good deal as to the progress effected by Alfieri in the work of exploration.

By hook or by crook, he must endeavor to return before sundown--if accompanied by Abdullah,
so much the better. Then, having learnt his news, they could decide on the next step to be
taken. Perhaps, if Abdullah came, they would be able to rejoin the expedition without further
trouble.

After Hussain's departure, Royson and Abdur Kad'r disposed themselves to rest. Utilizing camel
cloths as tentes d'abri, they snatched a couple of hours of uneasy sleep; but the heat and
insects drove even the seasoned sheikh to rebellion, and by midday both men preferred the hot
air and sunshine to the sweltering shade of the stuffy cloths.

Irene was right when she said that Dick had made a great advance with his Arabic. He was master
of many words of every-day use, and had also learnt a number of connected phrases. Abdur Kad'r
knew some French. These joint attainments enabled them to carry on a conversation.

The Arab, with the curiosity of all men who do not read books, sought information as to life
in big cities, and Royson amused himself by depicting the marvels of London. A limited vocabulary,
no less than the dense ignorance of his guide on such topics as railways, electricity, paved
streets, cabs, and other elements of existence in towns, rendered the descriptions vague. Suddenly,
the sheikh broke in on Dick's labored recital with a query that gave the conversation an extraordinary
turn.

"If you have so many remarkable things in your own land, Effendi, what do you seek here?" he
asked, waving a lean hand in comprehensive sweep. "This is no place for town-bred men like
the Hakim Effendi, nor for two such women as those who travel with us. You have ridden three
hundred kilometers across the desert, and for what? To find five hills, says the Hakim. May
Allah be praised that rich men should wish to spend so much money for so foolish a reason!"

"But the Hakim Effendi believes that there is an oasis marked by five hills somewhere in this
district, and, were he to find it, we would dig, and perhaps discover some ancient articles
buried there, articles of small value to the world generally, but highly prized by those who
understand their history."

"I know this desert as you know those streets you have been telling me of," said Abdur Kad'r,
"and there is no oasis marked by five hills. You have seen every camping-ground between here
and Pajura. There is but one other track, an old caravan road from the sea, which crosses our
present line a few kilometers to the south. We passed it last night in the dark. It has only
four wells. The nearest one is called the Well of Moses, the next, the Well of the Elephant--"

"Why should you Arabs have a well of Moses?" asked Dick, smiling. "It is not thought that Moses
ever wandered in this locality, is it?"

"We respect Moses and all the prophets," said Abdur Kad'r seriously. He smoked in silence for
a minute, seemingly searching his memory for something that had escaped it.

"Is it true," he demanded doubtingly, "that once upon a time many of the hills gave forth fire
and smoke as from a furnace?"

"Quite true. Volcanoes we call them. All these mountains are volcanic in their origin."

"Then a moulvie whom I met once did not lie to me. He said that seven little mounds which stand
near that well had been known to vomit ashes and flame: thus, they came to be called the Seven-branched
Candlestick of Moses. I suppose the well took the prophet's name in that way. Who knows?"

Royson had learnt of late how to school his face. Long practise under the witchery of Irene's
eyes and Mrs. Haxton's ceaseless scrutiny enabled him now to conceal the lightning flash of
inspiration that fired his intelligence. An old caravan road from the sea, a road that led
to the Nile, with its fourth stopping-place made notable by seven tiny cones of an extinct
volcano--surely that had the ring of actuality about it! Von Kerber had confessed to altering
figures and distances in the papyrus--was this an instance?--were the "hills" they sought not
five but seven in number? What an amazing thing it would be if this gaunt old sheikh held the
clue to the burial-place of the treasure! It must have been on the tip of his tongue ever since
they met him, yet the knowledge was withheld, solely on account of von Kerber's secretive methods.
Had he told Abdur Kad'r that he was searching for an oasis sheltered by seven hills it was
almost quite certain that the Well of Moses would at least have been mentioned as the only
locality offering a remote resemblance to that which he sought. Somehow, Dick felt that he
had stumbled on to the truth. Though tingling with excitement, he managed to control his voice.

"You say it is four marches from here to the sea?" he asked.

"Five, Effendi. There are four wells, but each is thirty or thirty-five kilometers from the
other. At one time, I have been told, many kafilas came that way, but the trade was killed
by goods being carried in ships to other points, while it is recorded among my people that
the curse of Allah fell on the land, and blighted it, and the trees died, and the streams dried
up, until it became as you now see it."

Dick lit a fresh, cigarette, and blew a great cloud of smoke before his eyes, lest the observant
Arab should read the thoughts that made them glisten.

"Let us suppose," he said slowly, "that Fenshawe Effendi decided to make for the sea by that
shorter road, there would be no difficulty in doing it?"

"Difficulty !" re-echoed the sheikh, "it might cost us many lives. A few men, leading spare
camels with water-bags, might get through in safety, but it would be madness to attempt it
with a big caravan. By the Prophet's beard, I did not like the prospect of this present march,
though I knew there was water and food in plenty at Suleiman's Well. What, then, would happen
if we found every well on the eastern road dry as a lime-kiln?"

"Yet you have been that way, you say?"

"Once, when I was young. But we were only a few Arabs, with a long string of camels."

"Did you find water?"

"Malish--I have forgotten. It is so long ago."

Royson rose to his feet and stretched himself. He wondered what Alfieri was disinterring at
Suleiman's Well if the legion of Aelius Gallus had followed the old-world route described by
the Arab. Perhaps it was all a mad dream, and this latest development but an added trick of
fantasy. Abdur Kad'r, looking up at him, chuckled softly.

"Effendi," he cried, "if you are as strong as you look, you must be of the breed of that Frankish
king whom our great Soldan, Yussuf Ibn Ayub, fought in Syria eight hundred years ago. Bismillah!
I have seen many a proper man, but none with height and bone like you."

Now, Dick knew that Abdur Kad'r was speaking of Richard the First and Saladin, and it did seem
a strange thing that the founder of his race should be named at that moment. He laughed constrainedly.

"You have guessed truly, my friend," he said. "I am indeed a descendant of that famous fighter.
Alas, the days have long passed since men met in fair contest with lance and sword. If I were
fool enough to seek distinction today in the battle-field I might be slain by any monkey of
a man who could aim a rifle."

"We die as God wills," was the Arab's pious rejoinder, "yet I have been in more than one fight
in which a Frank of your size could have won a name for himself. But I am growing old. My hot
days are ended, and you giaours are erecting boundary pillars on the desert. The free people
are dying. We are scattered and divided. Soon there will not be a genuine Arab left. May the
wrath of Allah fall on all unbelievers!"

Then did Royson laugh again, with a heartiness that drove that passion of retrospect from Abdur
Kad'r's dark features.

"Whatever happens, let not you and me quarrel," he cried. "We have enough on hand that we should
keep our heads cool. And who can tell what this very day may bring forth? Things may happen
ere we rejoin our caravan, Abdur Kad'r."

The sheikh, bowed his head in confusion. It must have been the heat, he muttered, that caused
his tongue to utter such folly. And, indeed, the excuse might serve, for the hot hours dragged
most wearily, and the sun circled ever towards the hills, yet there came no sign of Hussain.

Royson, was divided between his promise to Irene not to incur any avoidable risk and his natural
wish to obtain the information so eagerly awaited in the camp. Though he meant to begin the
return journey at sunset, here was five o'clock, and he no wiser than yesterday at the same
hour. At last, inaction grew irksome. He helped Abdur Kad'r to saddle the camels, and they
mounted, with intent to climb the northerly ridge, and thus survey the road which Hussain must
pursue if he managed to get away from Italian surveillance before nightfall.

They proceeded warily. On gaining the opposing height they found that a broad plateau, flanked
by a steep hill on the seaward side, barred any distant view, but Abdur Kad'r felt assured
that the crest of this next hill would give them command of the whole range of broken country
for many miles ahead. With this objective, they urged the camels into a trot. When the shoulder
of the rising ground became almost impassable for four-footed animals, and awkward beasts at
that, they dismounted, tied the camels to heavy stones, and climbed the remainder of the way
on foot.

They looked across a narrow valley into a wide and shallow depression, where a clump of palm
trees and dense patches of sayall bushes instantly revealed the whereabouts of the oasis. It
was easy to see the regular lines of newly-turned rubble and sand where trenches had been cut
by the explorers. But the place was deserted. Not a man or horse, camel or tent, stood on the
spot where the mirage had revealed a multitude some twenty-six hours earlier.

Royson was so perplexed by the discovery that his gaze did not wander from the abandoned camp.
Abdur Kad'r, quicker than he to read the tokens of the desert, pointed to a haze of dust that
hung in the still air far to the north.

"The Italians have gone, Effendi," he said. "Perhaps they, too, were looking for an oasis with
five hills. Behold, they have found one by a fool's counting, for this is the fifth hill within
two kilometers of Suleiman's Well. The ways of Allah are wonderful. Can it be that they have
discovered that which you seek?"

A sharp pang of disappointment shot through Royson's breast. He was about to tell Abdur Kad'r
that they must now regain their camels and hasten to the oasis while there was sufficient light
to examine the excavations, when the sheikh suddenly pulled him down, for Dick had stood upright
on a boulder to obtain an uninterrupted field of vision.

"Look!" he growled. "Four of them! And, by the Holy Kaaba, they mean mischief!"

Royson's eyes were good, clearer, in all probability, than the Arab's, but they were not trained
to detect moving objects with such minute precision. Nevertheless, in a few seconds he made
out the hoods of four men who were peering over the crest which separated the small valley
from the larger one. They disappeared, and, while Royson and Abdur Kad'r were speculating on
the motive that inspired this espionage, the hoods came in sight again, but this time they
had the regular swing that betokened camel-riders. The four halted on the sky-line, and seemingly
exchanged signals with others in the fear. Then they resumed their advance. They were fully
armed; they carried their guns across the saddle-bow, and Dick saw that their cloaks were rather
differently fashioned to those which he had taken note of hitherto.

"Hadendowas!" murmured Abdur Kad'r. "They are good fighters, Effendi, but born thieves. And
how many ride behind? Not for twenty years have I met Hadendowas on this track."

The Arab's keen eyes did not cease to glare fixedly beyond the ridge. Soon he whispered again:

"They may not have seen us, Effendi, but we must be ready for them. Go you, and lead our camels
into the hollow there," and he thrust his chin towards the seaward base of the hill. "I shall
soon know if they are playing fox with us. Our camels are of the Bisharin breed, while theirs
are Persian, so we can always outstrip them if it comes to a race. You understand, Effendi;
they come from Suleiman's Well. Perchance evil hath befallen Hussain."

Abhur Kad'r's advice was so obviously reasonable that Dick obeyed it, though unwillingly. He
took the camels to the place indicated by his companion, and had no difficulty in finding a
cleft in which they were quite hidden from the ken of any who followed the main track.

Soon he heard the sheikh hurrying after him.

"Had we awaited Hussain another half hour we should have been dead or captured by this time,
Effendi," was his bewildering news. "A white man and nearly seventy Hadendowas, all armed,
and leading pack camels, follow close behind the scouts. With them are Hussain and another,
but their arms are bound, and they are roped to their beasts. The Giaour-- may he be withered--rides
my Bisharin camel."

Then Royson knew by intuition what had happened. Alfieri had failed in his quest. The Italian
commander of the troops, refusing to sanction useless labor any longer, had marched north with
his men. Alfieri, still clinging desperately to a chimera, had decided to remain and scour
the desert until his stores gave out. And, at this crucial moment in his enterprise, came Hussain,
the unconscious emissary of his rivals. The fact that the Arab was a prisoner spoke volumes.
He had tried to communicate with Abdullah, and the watchful Italian had guessed his true mission.
The man might have been tortured until he confessed the whereabouts not only of Royson himself
and Abdur Kad'r but of the whole expedition. There was but one thing to do, and that speedily.

"Up!" he shouted, dragging the camels forth to an open space. "You ride in front and set the pace."

"What would you do, Effendi?" cried the sheikh in alarm. "They will see us ere we have gone
five hundred meters. Let us wait for the night."

"Up, I tell you," roared Royson, catching the Arab's shoulder in a steel grip. "In another
ten minutes they will know we have fled, and they will hurry south at top speed. What chance
have we of passing them in this country at night? Our sole hope is to head them. No more words,
but ride. Believe me, Abdur Kad'r, it is life or death for you, and it matters little to me
whether you die here, or in the next valley, or not at all."

Then the Arab knew that he had met his master. He climbed to the saddle, said words not in
the Koran, and urged his camel into a frenzied run. Royson, who could never have persuaded
his own long- legged steed to adopt such a pace, found it easy enough to induce the beast to
follow his brother.

In this fashion, riding like madmen, they traversed the plateau and had almost begun the descent
into the wady where they had spent the day, when a distant yell reached them. There was no
need to look back, even if such a hazardous proceeding were warranted by their break-neck gait.
They were discovered, but they were in front, and that counts for a good deal in a race. They
tore down the hill, lumbered across the dried-up bed of a long-vanished torrent, and pressed
up the further side. As they neared the ridge, four rifle shots rang out, and Dick saw three
little spurts of dust and stones kick up in front on the right, while a white spatter suddenly
shone on a dark rock to the left.

"Faster!" he roared to Abdur Kad'r. "They cannot both ride and fire. In the next wady we shall
be safe. Bend to it, my friend. Your reward will be great, and measured only by your haste
in bringing me back to our camp."

CHAPTER XVI

A FLIGHT--AND A FIGHT

Mrs. Haxton was no laggard in her hammock on the day after Royson's departure from the camp,
but, early riser though she was, Irene was up and dressed when the older woman came to her
tent and asked if she might have a word with her. In fact, Irene had not undressed at all the
previous night. When she tore herself from Dick's arms, she hurried back to the oasis, it is
true, but only to draw a chair out into the open, and sit there under the stars, dreaming the
dreams of a girl to whom the heaven of love has just thrown wide its portals.

Even the midnight chill did not drive her to bed. She closed the flap of her tent, lit a lamp,
and tried to read, but the letters danced before her eyes. Instead of the scenes portrayed
by the book, she saw three ghostly camels shuffling through stones and sand in the darkness,
and, on one of them, the tall figure of the man whose parting words had filled her soul with
honey sweetness. At last, weary with anxiety on his behalf, she threw herself, fully dressed,
on her low-hung hammock, this being Mr. Fenshawe's clever device to protect European skins
from the attacks of the insects that swarm in the desert wherever there is any sign of dampness.
She slept a few fitful hours, and her first waking thought was a prayer for Dick's well-being.

Then came Mrs. Haxton, and the girl received her with unaffected friendliness, being in the
mood that demanded the sympathy she was prepared to offer to all who suffered. Her visitor
was observant. Her woman's eyes noted that Irene was still attired in a muslin dinner dress,
whereas she invariably wore a riding costume of brown holland or Assam silk in the morning.

"My dear Irene," she said, "I hope you will not allow that stupid dispute of yesterday to worry
you into sleepless nights."

"But I have slept--quite a long time," was the girl's smiling disclaimer.

"Well, now--let us consider. Mr. Royson left the camp about ten o'clock. A young lady who shall
be nameless said good-bye to him half an hour later--"

"You saw me?" Irene flushed scarlet.

"No, indeed. I was too busy with my own sad affairs to act the part of a female Paul Pry, even
involuntarily. But I did see you go to your tent, and I caught a glimpse of you at midnight
when you were lighting your lamp. It is not yet six, so I am guessing things."

"If I were to return the compliment--"

"You would say that I, too, was not a heavy sleeper. Well, I make no secret of a perturbed
night. That is why I am here now. I want your help, Irene. Strange as it may seem, I appeal
to you because I know you have always been opposed to my aims. Perhaps I am to blame for that.
Had I forced Baron von Kerber to take you and Mr. Fenshawe fully into his confidence, events
might have shaped themselves quite differently. But it is too late to talk of what might have
been. You are more concerned with the future than with the past. Last night, while you were
looking into the wonderland of the years to come, I was reviewing lost opportunities. Therefore,
I come to you this morning somewhat chastened in spirit. May I talk without reserve?"

"Please, do," cried Irene, drawing her chair closer. In the sharp clarity of sunrise she saw
that Mrs. Haxton's beautiful face was drawn and haggard. She was beginning to probe unsuspected
depths in this woman's temperament. She understood something of the intense disappointment
which the failure of the expedition must evoke in one to whom wealth and all that it yields
constituted the breath of life. And then, she was in love, which predisposes its votaries towards
charity.

Mrs. Haxton sighed. A consummate actress, for once her art was supplemented by real feeling.

"Ah," she murmured, her eyes filling with tears, "I find your pity hard to bear."

"Surely you are not going to cry just because I am sorry for you," cried the girl. "There now.
Don't give way. Let me call one of the men. He will bring us some tea, and we can have a nice
long chat before breakfast."

"Yes, do that. We both need it. My grief is rather selfish, Irene. I know your secret, dear
girl, and I wish you every happiness, though the phrase carries with it the bitter self-communion
that, for my own part, I have forfeited most things that make life happy. Well, that is not
what I want to say. The storm has passed. Summon your slave, and bid the kettle boil."

Surprised and touched by the emotion displayed by her companion, Irene hastened to procure
the beverage which Providence evidently intended for the consolation of afflicted womankind.
The camp was already astir, and the crew of the Aphrodite were preparing their morning meal,
so two cups of hot tea were quickly available.

When Mrs. Haxton spoke again, the tears had gone, and her voice resumed its pleasantly modulated
tone.

"May I begin by assuming that you intend to marry Mr. Royson?" she asked.

Irene laughed softly, and her glance wandered beyond the busy camp to the distant hills.

"I have known more unlikely events to happen," she said.

"I thought so. I recognized the symptoms. Well, I want to make a sort of bargain with you.
If you help me, I can help you, and, to show that I can give effect to my words, I shall tell
you exactly what form my help will take before I state the nature of the assistance I ask from
you, so that you may be at perfect liberty to give or withhold it as you choose."

"This is a rather one-sided contract, is it not?" "No. I fancy it will be equitable. I have
not lived in close intimacy with you during so many weeks without arriving at a fair estimate
of your character. You are one of the fortunate people, Irene, who find it more blessed to
give than to receive. At any rate I am satisfied to settle matters that way. And to come to
the point, while you may experience grave difficulty in obtaining your grandfather's consent
to your marriage with a penniless young gentleman of striking physique but no profession--Mr.
Royson being even a second mate on sufferance, so to speak--the aspect of your affairs changes
materially when your suitor becomes Sir Richard Royson, Baronet, with a fine estate and a rent-roll
of five thousand pounds a year."

"How can you possibly know that?" gasped Irene, spilling half her tea in sheer excitement.

"It is more than possible--It is true. I happen to be aware of the facts. That thrice fortunate
young man came into our lives at a moment when, by the merest chance, I was able to acquire
some knowledge of his family history. His uncle, the twenty-sixth baronet, I believe, sustained
an accident in childhood which unhappily made him a cripple and a hunchback. He grew up a misanthrope.
He hated his only brother because he was tall and strong as befitted one of the race, and his
hatred became a mania when Captain Henry Royson married a young lady on whom the dwarf baronet
had set his mind. There never was the least reason to believe that she would have wed Sir Richard,
but that did not prevent him from pursuing her with a spite and vindictiveness that earned
him very bad repute in Westmoreland. His brother and nephew were, however, his heirs, though
the estate was a poor one, but, when minerals were discovered on the property, he persuaded
Captain Royson to agree that the entail should be broken, as certain business developments
could then be carried out more effectively. This was a reasonable thing in itself, but, unhappily,
the younger brother was killed in the hunting-field, and some legal kink in the affair enabled
the baronet to reduce the widow and her son to actual poverty. Young Royson made a gallant
attempt to support his mother, but she died nearly five years ago. Naturally, there was a mortal
feud between him and his uncle. Sir Richard's constant aim has been to crush his nephew. He
arranged matters so that the bare title alone would pass to the heir at his death. Yet, on
the very day that young Royson stopped your frightened horses in Buckingham Palace Road, the
baronet slipped on the oak floor of the picture gallery in Orme Castle--that is the name of
their place in the North--and injured his spine. The nearness of death seems to have frightened
him into an act of retribution. He made a new will, constituting your Richard his heir, and
he died the day before our caravan left Pajura."

A certain cold disdain had crept into Irene's face as she listened. Mrs. Haxton was well aware
of the change in the girl's manner, but she did not interrupt the thread of her story, nor
seek to alter its significance.

"Mr. Royson knows nothing of these later events that are so vitally important to him?" she
asked, when the other woman's quiet narration ceased its even flow.

"No."

"Then how is it--"

"That I am better informed? It is quite simple. Baron von Kerber intercepted and read all letters
and telegrams that came for him by camel post."

Irene rose. Anger flamed in her face, and her brown eyes darkened.

"You dare to tell this to me?" she said.

"Exactly. You gave me permission to speak unreservedly. Please sit down. I have not finished yet."

Somehow, despite her indignation, the girl was swayed into compliance.

"You forget that the twenty-sixth Sir Richard was dead, and that it really did not matter one
jot to the twenty-seventh whether he learnt the news a few weeks earlier or later. But it mattered
everything to us, to Baron von Kerber and myself, I mean. We were determined that this expedition
should succeed, and we boggled at no means which promised to achieve our end. We have been
beaten, but not through any fault of ours. We felt, not without good reason, that if Mr. Royson
were compelled to return home you would be converted from a passive into an active enemy. So
we adopted the leave-well-enough-alone policy, and, as one woman speaking to another, I really
don't see what you have to grumble about. Blame us as much as you like, you still have the
delightful knowledge that the progress of your love affair was unaffected by titles or wealth,
and I have left to you the pleasant duty of telling your fiance of his good fortune."

"I am afraid your reasoning is too plausible for my poor wits, Mrs. Haxton," said the girl
slowly. "Indeed, I am not sure that I care to listen to you any further."

"But you must, you shall," came the fierce outburst. "Do you think I am lowering myself in
your eyes without cause? I have told you the plain truth, careless of the worst interpretation
you may choose to place on my motives. Now, in return, I want you to make these things known
to Mr. Fenshawe. He will be even more disgusted with Baron von Kerber and my wretched self
than he is at present, if that be possible. Hence, he will agree, in all probability, to do
what we ask--we wish him to give us sufficient equipment and escort to travel direct to the
coast from here--at once--within the hour. When we reach the sea we can cross to Aden in an
Arab dhow, and neither Mr. Fenshawe nor you will ever see or hear from us again, save in a
business sense. It is not a wildly extravagant demand. None of us can look forward with pleasure
to a month's journey in company back to Pajura. If I go to Mr. Fenshawe with the proposal I
have made to you, he will suspect some hidden intent. He will believe you, and you can convince
him that it is the only satisfactory way out of a disagreeable position."

A full minute elapsed before Irene answered.

"I take it that you are here with Baron von Kerber's consent," she said.

"Yes. We discussed matters from every aspect last night. That is why I am so well posted in
your movements. We prefer not to await Mr. Royson's return. Alfieri has defeated us. We have
lost caste with you and your grandfather. For Heaven's sake, let us go!"

Again there was a pause. For some reason, Irene's sympathies conquered her again. She had risen,
and she approached a little nearer.

"I wish to say," she murmured, "that--I am--sorry for you."

Mrs. Haxton looked up at her. Her face was frozen with misery. She seemed to be incapable of
tears just then. She stood up, held herself erect for an instant, and walked out of the tent.

"Thank you," she said, without turning her head, as though she wished to avoid the girl's eyes,
"Now go, please. Tell Mr. Fenshawe that we shall be glad to get away while it is possible to
march. If your grandfather sanctions our plan, we have all details ready for his approval.
There need be no delay. We do not want a great deal in the way of stores, and we give our promise
to repay the small sum of money which will be necessary for the voyage to Aden and thence to
London."

Irene, conscious of some unknown element in this wholly unexpected outcome of the previous
evening's discord, hurried off to arouse her grandfather. At that hour the kafila was usually
beginning the day's march, but Mr. Fenshawe, like the others, had remained up late, and he
was unwilling to be disturbed until his servant told him that his granddaughter was exceedingly
anxious to see him.

As soon as she began to relate Mrs. Haxton's story, she realized that it implied a confession
of the attachment existing between Royson and herself. She stammered and flushed when it came
to explaining the interest she took in all appertaining to Dick, but the old gentleman listened
gravely and without comment.

"What do you think, Irene?" he asked when she had finished.

"I think we should all be happier and freer from restraint if Mrs. Haxton and the Baron left
us," she said.

"I agree with you. Mrs. Haxton, as a chaperone, can easily be dispensed with. You say they
have a scheme drawn up for my signature--setting forth the number of camels, etc., they need?
Bring it to me. We can go through it together, and you and Stump can check the actual splitting
up of the caravan. Of course, they know that we have a thirty days' march before us, as compared
with their five or six, and we may also be compelled to remain here another day or two. In
the matter of funds I shall be generous, at any rate where the woman is concerned. I believe
that von Kerber is a scoundrel, that he has led her blindfolded along a path of villainy, and
she thinks now that she cannot recede. However, let us see what they want."

He was somewhat surprised to find that their demands were studiously moderate. Their tent equipage,
seven days' supplies, a dozen camels, two horses, and the necessary number of men, made up
the list. Mr. Fenshawe gave them sufficient silver for current expenses, and a draft payable
in Aden for the steamer and hotel charges, while he sent Mrs. Haxton a note offering her five
hundred pounds when she arrived in London, and promising further assistance in the future if
she shook herself free of von Kerber.

Irene, who was acquainted with her grandfather's liberal intent, watched Mrs. Haxton closely
while she read that kindly message. Her pallid face was unmoved. Its statuesque rigor gave
no hint of the thoughts that raged behind the mask.

"Tell Mr. Fenshawe that he has acted exactly as I expected," was her listless reply, and, within
five minutes, the small cavalcade started. Mrs. Haxton elected to ride a Somali pony. She mounted
unaided, forced the rather unruly animal to canter to the head of the caravan, and thus deliberately
hid herself from further scrutiny.

"Poor thing!" murmured Irene with a sigh of relief, and hardly conscious that she was addressing
Stump. "I cannot help pitying her, though I am glad she has gone."

"She an' the Baron make a good pair, Miss," said Stump. "I've had my eye on 'em, an' they're
up to some mischief now, or my name ain't wot it is."

The girl glanced at him wonderingly, for the sturdy sailor's outspoken opinion fitted in curiously
with her own half-formed thought.

"You would not say that if you knew why they have left us," she said.

"Mebbe not, Miss Fenshawe, an' mebbe you've on'y heard half a yarn, if you'll pardon my way
of puttin' it. Anyway, the Baron is in a mighty hurry to be off; an' isn't it plain enough
that he doesn't want to be here when Mr. Royson comes back? You mark my words, Miss. You'll
hear something that'll surprise you when our second mate heaves in sight."

Never did man prophesy more truly, yet never was prophet more amazed at his own success....

Royson and Abdur Kad'r, flying for their lives, spurred on by the further knowledge that even
if they escaped capture or death they yet had to undertake a difficult journey on tired beasts
if they would save the expedition from the attack evidently meditated by Alfieri and his cohort
of plunderers, the two, then--Englishman and Arab--rode like men who valued their necks but
lightly.

Bullets sang close to their ears, and one actually chipped the stock of Dick's rifle, almost
unseating him by the force of the blow. But the Bisharins were excited, and forgot their fatigue
for a mile or so, by which time night fell, and the uncanny darkness soon rendered it quite
impossible to ride at all. They dismounted, and led the camels. Abdur Kad'r, true son of the
desert, pressed forward nimbly, since every yard gained was a yard stolen from the pursuers.
After a while they were able to mount again, but now the jaded camels lagged, and not all the
sheik's prayers or imprecations could force them even into the regulation pace of two and a
half miles an hour.

To make matters worse, a hot breeze sprang up from the south, and stirred the desert into curling
sand-wraiths, which blinded them and made it hard to detect sounds even close at hand. They
were fully thirty miles distant from the camp, with eight hours of darkness before them, during
which time they could hope to cover only half the march. The thought rose unbidden that the
remaining half must be undertaken in daylight, with wornout camels, while the Hadendowa kafila
was presumably in fresh condition.

Something of the sort must have been in Abdur Kad'r's mind when, he said:

"The misbegotten thieves who follow, Effendi, will count on overtaking us soon after daybreak.
We must keep the water-bags fastened until the dawn. Then let the camels empty them."

Royson silently debated the chances for and against an endeavor to rush the journey on foot.
If practicable, he would have attempted it, leaving the Arab to save himself and the camels
by adopting a longer route. He decided that the project must fail. He could not find the road
at night, and his thin boots would be cut to pieces by the rocks before he had gone many miles.

Yet, if they were overtaken, what would happen to Irene and the others? A sharp pain gripped
his breast, and his eyes clouded. He threw back his head, and passed a hand over his clammy
brow. The action seemed to clear his brain, and he saw instantly that there was only one course
open to him. "Abdur Kad'r," he said, when a level space enabled them to walk side by side,
"which of our camels is the stronger?"

"They are both weary, Effendi, but mine has carried less weight than yours. Ere he fell for
the last time, he would lead."

"Listen, then, and do as I say. If we are attacked to-night I shall stand and face our assailants.
You ride on alone. I shall try to gain a fair start for you. You know what depends on your
efforts. Should you fail, you not only lose life and fortune, but you also endanger the lives
of many. You must reach the camp by some means. And, when you see Miss Fenshawe, tell her that
my last thought was of her. Do you understand?"

"Effendi--"

"Have you understood my words? Will you deliver that message?"

"Yes, Effendi, but we men of the desert do not fly while our friends fight."

"I well believe it, Abdur Kad'r. Yet that is my order. Will you obey?"

"I like it not, Effendi."

"There is no other way. What can you suggest that will be better? I remain--that is a settled
thing. You gain nothing by not trying to escape. And remember, these Arabs will think twice
before they slay a European."

"They will shoot first and think afterwards, Effendi."

"Well, we shall see. Perhaps they have given up the chase. In case they come upon us, lash
your camel into a trot, and wait not for me, because I shall ride back, not forward."

The sheikh muttered a comprehensive curse on things in general and the Hadendowa tribe in particular.
They stumbled on in silence for nearly two hours. At the end of that time they descended a
difficult slope into a deep wady. Fortunately, they had crossed it by daylight early that morning,
so its hazards were vivid in memory. In the rock-strewn bed of the vanished river, Abdur Kad'r
halted a moment. The light of the stars was strong enough to reveal the horizon, which was
visible through the fall of the valley, and the nearer crests of the neighboring watershed
were quite distinct--showing black against luminous ultramarine.

"That seaward track I spoke of, Effendi, passes this way to the hills. The Well of Moses lies
down there," and the Arab, more by force of habit than because Royson could see him in that
gloomy defile, threw out his chin towards the east.

Suddenly, it struck Royson that provided he had guessed aright, the Roman Legion which sacked
Saba must have marched over this identical spot, in their effort to reach the Nile. After twenty
marches, von Kerber said, they were waylaid by a Nubian clan and slain--every man-- from the
proud tribune down to the humblest hastatus. Perhaps they were surrounded in some such trap
as this valley would provide. And what a fight that was! What deeds of valor, what hewing and
stabbing, ere the last centurion fell at the head of the last remnant of a cohort, and the
despairing Greek commissary, gazing wild-eyed from some nook of safety, saw the Roman eagle
sink for ever!

Abdur Kad'r, little dreaming of the train of thought he had aroused, moved on again. Dick had
drawn taut the head-rope of his unwilling camel when the brute uttered a squeal of recognition,
and both men saw several mounted Arabs silhouetted against the northern sky-line. An answering
grunt came from one of their camels, and a hubbub of voices sank faintly into the somber depths,
as the wind was not felt in that sheltered place.

The sheikh swore fluently, but Royson spoke no word until they were free of the boulders, and
had gained a passable incline which led to the steeper path up the opposing cliff.

"Now, Abdur Kad'r--" he said.

"Name of Allah, Effendi, this thing must not be!"

"It must. Go, my good comrade. It is for the best."

Abdur Kad'r smote his camel on the cheek.

"I never imagined, Bisharin, that thou would carry me away from a friend in danger," he growled,
"but this is God's doing, and thou art a rogue at all times. I shall either ride thee to death
or kill thee for a feast," He would not bid Royson farewell. Dick heard him tugging the camel
forward.

"Forget not my words to the Effendina," he said quietly.

"I shall not forget," came a voice from the darkness, and he was alone.

Though he knew he was face to face with death, he felt no tremor of fear. He surveyed his position
coolly, and took his stand in the shadow of a mass of granite close to whose base the track
wound up the hillside. In case the unexpected happened, he fastened his camel to a loose stone
behind the rock, and the poor animal knelt instantly, thinking that a night's rest was vouchsafed
at last. Dick threw off the Arab robes he had worn since Abdur Kad'r and he climbed the hill
overlooking Suleiman's Well. He opened and closed the breech of his heavy double-barreled Express
rifle to make sure that the sand clouds had not clogged its mechanism, and fingered the cartridges
in his cross-belt.

Then he waited. It would take the Hadendowas fully five minutes to come up with him, and he
experienced a feeling akin to astonishment that he could bide his time so patiently, without
any pang of anxiety, or hope, or agonizing misgiving. He thought of Irene, but only of her
welfare. If he were not brought down by a chance bullet early in the fray, he felt quite certain
of being able to stave off the final rush long enough to give Abdur Kad'r a breathing spell,
he had sufficient confidence in that wily old Arab's resources to believe that he would outwit
his pursuers, provided they lost a good deal of time in passing this barrier.

Plan he had none, save to hail the enemy in Arabic and English, and then put up a strenuous
fight for the benefit of those who approached nearest.

Round the shoulder of the rock he could look eastward, and a glimmering mist in that direction
reminded him of the sea, and of the Aphrodite. What a difference a hundred miles made! The
luxuriously appointed yacht sailed out there in the midst of the ghostly cloud not so long
ago. And here was he, clutching a rifle and preparing to sell his life in order to save most
of her passengers and crew from a sudden attack by a gang of bloodthirsty ruffians led by a
frenzied Italian. As a study in contrasts that was rather striking, he fancied.

At last he heard the shuffling of camels' feet and the mutterings of men. The Hadendowas were
crossing the river bed.

"Stop!" he shouted, in Arabic. "You die otherwise!"

There was an instant silence. They were evidently not prepared for this bold challenge.

"I am an Englishman," he added, still in Arabic, and, in the belief that some of them might
at least recognize the sound of English, he went on:

"You have no right to molest me and my servants. I call on you to return to your master, and
set at liberty the Arab Hussain--"

He was answered by a perfect blaze of rifles. Every man fired at random. At least a dozen bullets
crashed against the rock. A violent tug at his left sleeve and some spatters of hot lead on
his cheek showed that one missile had come too near to be pleasant. After passing through his
coat it had splashed on the granite just behind him.

He did not speak again, nor would he fire until sure of a mark. Another volley lit the darkness.
This time he made out the forms of his attackers. They were standing some twenty yards away,
and he marveled that they seemed not to see him; though he reflected at once, with the utmost
nonchalance, that the blinding flash of the guns screened him quite effectually from their eyes.

Then he saw two dim figures moving swiftly forward. He brought both down, and their yells rent
the air.

He sprang sideways, as far as the narrow road permitted, and reloaded. The Arabs aimed wildly
at the place where he had just been standing. One of their number screamed a command, and they
made a combined rush. He fired both barrels into their midst, clubbed his rifle and jumped
forward. That was good generalship, of the sort dear to the heart of his great ancestor. At
the first tremendous sweep of his weapon he broke off its stock against an Arab's body. That
did not matter. The heavy barrels were staunch, and iron deals harder blows than wood. He was
active as a cat, and had the strength of any four of his adversaries. With lightning-like whirls
he smote them so resolutely that when five were laid low the rest broke, and ran. He actually
pursued them, and brought down two more, before he stumbled over the body of one whom he had shot.

And that ended the fight. He heard men scrambling over the rocks in panic, and he knew by the
grunting and groaning of distant camels that all the kafila had stampeded. Searching the fallen
man at his feet, he found a full cartridge-belt and rifle. He took them, lest there should
be further need, but did not relinquish the trusty weapon which had more than equalized an
unequal combat.

Then he went to his camel. The terrified brute had risen, and was tugging madly at its rope.
It seemed to recognize him, and be grateful for his presence, if ever a camel can display gratitude.
He gave it the contents of the water-bag, led it to the top of the cliff, and stood there a
brief space to listen. Some wounded men were calling loudly for help, and he was sorry for
the poor wretches; but there was no response from their flying comrades. He fixed on a star
to guide his course by, mounted, and rode away to the south, trusting more to his camel's sense
of direction than to his own efforts to keep on the track.

When dawn appeared, a dawn that was glorious to him beyond measure, he caught sight of a precipitous
hill which he remembered passing on the outward march. Looking back at the first favorable
point, he could see nothing that betokened the presence of Hadendowas, or any other human beings,
in all that far-flung solitude. Were it not for the presence of the Italian rifle and cartridge-belt,
and the blood-stained gun-barrels resting across his knees, the fierce struggle in that forbidding
valley might have been the delirium of a fever-dream.

He rode on, munching contentedly at a biscuit from his haversack, until his glance was drawn
to a cloud of dust hanging in the air, for the unpleasant wind of the previous night had given
way to a softer and cooler breeze. He read its token correctly, and smiled at the picture which
his fancy drew of Stump, when that choleric skipper heard what had happened to his second mate.
Surely he would be among those now hurrying to the rescue!

And he was not mistaken. With Stump came Abdur Kad'r, six of the Aphrodite's crew, and a score
of well-armed Arabs and negroes. Even before they met, Royson saw two Arabs race back towards
the camp, and Stump, after the first hearty congratulations, explained the hurry of those messengers.

"It's mainly on account of Miss Irene," he said. "She took on something awful when the sheikh
blew in an' tole us you had gone under. He heard the shootin', you see, an', accordin' to his
account, you were as full of lead as Tagg'll be full of beer when he listens to the yarn I'll
spin nex' time we meet."

Abdur Kad'r's black eyes sparkled when Royson spoke to him.

"Salaam aleikum, Effendi!" he cried. "You have redeemed my honor. Never again could I have
held up my head had you been slain while I ran. And that shaitan of a camel--he stirred himself.
By the Prophet, I must kill an older one to make a feast for my men."

CHAPTER XVII

HOW THREE ROADS LED IN ONE DIRECTION

The news that her lover was safe restored the sparkle to Irene's eyes and the color to her
wan cheeks. Fenshawe, indeed, had not given her the full measure of Abdur Kad'r's breathless
recital. Recent events had led the old curio-hunter to view life in less ultra-scientific spirit
than was his habit. Perhaps he had re-awakened to the knowledge that the hearts of men and
women are apt to be swayed by other impulses than his dry-as-dust interest in dead cities and
half-forgotten races. Most certainly he was shocked by the agony in the girl's face when she
heard that the sheikh had returned alone, and, if he wondered at the low wail of despair which
broke from her lips, he said nothing of it at the moment, but mercifully suppressed Abdur Kad'r's
story of the Effendi's resolve to make a stand against his pursuers, and thus enable his companion
to reach and warn the camp.

The version Irene heard was that Royson's camel had fallen lame, and it was deemed safer he
should hide until help came, than mount behind Abdur Kad'r and risk the slower journey. Fenshawe
reasoned that Royson might be captured, not killed. His long experience of Arab life told him
that the tribesmen would be chary of murdering a European, for fear of the vengeance to be
exacted later. Nevertheless, this comforting theory was more than balanced by the disquieting
facts revealed by the sheikh, who, as he rode wildly to the south, heard a sharp outburst of
firing in the valley behind him.

Yet it was well that Irene had not been told the whole truth, else that anxious little heart
of hers might have stormed itself into a fever of despair. As it was, her pent emotions found
relief in tears of joy when the messengers brought the news of Royson's approach with the rescue
party, and her eyelids were still suspiciously red, her lips somewhat tremulous, when, standing
by her grandfather's side, she welcomed his return.

Though a hundred eyes were fixed on the two--though some of those eyes watched them with a
keenness inspired by the belief that this reunion had in it a romantic element quite apart
from the drama of the hour-- their meeting apparently partook only of that friendly character
warranted by the unusual circumstances. And, in the general excitement, none who looked at
Royson paid heed to the hardships he had undergone. He had hardly closed his eyes during two
nights and three days, for the rest obtained while he and Abdur Kad'r awaited the outcome of
Hussain's embassy was calculated rather to add to his physical exhaustion than relieve it.
He had covered eighty miles of desert on scanty fare, and had fought a short but terrific fight
against a dozen adversaries. Yet, his cool demeanor and unwearied carriage conveyer! no hint
of fatigue-- to all outward seeming he might have been entering the encampment after an ordinary
march, when a basin of water and a change of clothing were the chief essentials of existence.
It was not so, of course. Were he made of steel he must have felt the strain of those sixty
hours, and he almost yielded to it when he dismounted, and Fenshawe led him inside the mess tent.

The older man invited him to be seated, and tell his adventures while eating the meal which
had been prepared for him and Stump as soon as their camels were seen in the distance. But
Dick, half unconsciously, still clutched the broken rifle. There were blood stains on his clothing,
which was ripped in the most obvious way by bullets that had either wounded him or actually
grazed his skin. Fenshawe's keen old eyes made a rapid inventory of these signs of strife,
and he forgot, in his anxiety, that Irene was present.

"Good heavens, man," he cried, "you have been in the wars. Did those scoundrels attack you,
then? Are you hurt?"

"No," said Dick, sinking into a chair, and trying to speak with his customary nonchalance,
"I am not injured--just a wee bit tired--that is all."

Irene flew to his side. She took the soiled gun-barrels, from his relaxing grip, and began
to unfasten the collar hooks of his uniform.

"Don't you see he is almost fainting?" she demanded, reproachfully. "Bring some brandy and
cold water, quick! Oh, Dick, dear, speak to me! Are you sure you are not wounded? If it is
only want of food and sleep, we can soon put that right, but do tell me if you have a wound."

Dick smiled, though he knew his face was white beneath the dust and tan, and he could not lift
his arms for the life of him.

"I'm all right," he whispered. "I suppose I'm suffering from heart trouble, Irene. Haven't
seen you for two nights and a day, you know."

He must have been a trifle light-headed, or he would not have spoken to her in that way before
her grandfather. Mr. Fenshawe, remembering the girl's shyness of the previous day, may have
thought a good deal, but said nothing, seeing that Irene was supremely indifferent to either
his thoughts or his words at that instant, while Royson seemed to be heedless of any other
fact than the exceedingly pleasant one that his beloved was holding a glass to his lips and
asking him to gratify her by swallowing the contents.

As for Stump, who was not aware of his second mate's rise in the world, the manner of their
speech affected him so powerfully that he was in imminent danger of an apoplectic seizure.
His condition was rendered all the more dangerous because he dared utter no word. But he silently
used the sailor-like formula which applies to such unexpected situations, and added certain
other variations of the rubric from the extensive resources of his own private vocabulary.
He recovered his breath by the time Dick's attack, of weakness had passed, and the color of
his face slowly subsided from, a deep purple to its abiding tint of brick red.

"Rather a sudden indisposition," said Fenshawe to Stump, smiling quizzically as he watched
Irene supporting Royson's head while she urged him tenderly to drink a little more of the stimulant.

"Is that wot you call it?" asked the captain of the Aphrodite, mopping his glowing cheeks with
a handkerchief of brilliant hue. "I thought it was a stroke of some kind, 'but I've fair lost
my bearin's since I gev' over plashin' at sea."

The amazement of the elders at the manner in which those young people addressed each other
was slight in comparison with the thrill Royson caused when he had taken some soup, and was
prepared to do justice to more solid food.

"I had a rather lively set-to with a number of Hadendowas," he explained in response to a question
from Mr. Fenshawe. "It was brief but strenuous, and I assure you it is a marvel that I came
out of it practically without a scratch. At any rate, it does not call for a detailed description
now, seeing that I have something of vastly greater importance to tell you. May I ask, sir,
if you have photographs of the papyrus in your possession?"

"Yes. They are in my tent. Shall I bring them?" "If you please. I think I have news that will
interest you."

"One word before I go. Abdur Kad'r said that the Italians had abandoned Suleiman's Well. Have
they found the treasure, do you think?"

"No, sir. Just the reverse. I believe that I have found it myself, and, if I am not mistaken,
Mrs. Haxton and the Baron, from what Captain Stump tells me, are now far on their way to the
right place, if they have not already reached it."

"Wot did I say, Miss Irene?" broke in Stump fiercely. "Oh, he's deep is that there Baron. I
sized him up when he med off yesterday. An' Mrs. Haxton, too! A nice pair of beauties."

"Whatever wrong Mrs. Haxton may have done in the past, I refuse to believe that she was swayed
by some merely selfish consideration in leaving us as she did," said Irene softly, and her
grandfather thanked her with a look as he quitted the tent.

Stump shook his head.

"She's as artful as a pet fox," he growled; but he had no listeners. Dick and Irene were far
too much occupied in gazing at each other.

Mr. Fenshawe returned speedily. He spread out ten photographs on the table in front of Royson.
With them was a typewritten document divided into ten sections.

"That is the English translation," he explained. "Each numbered division corresponds with a
similar number on a photograph. It simplifies reference."

Dick examined the translation eagerly. The first slip of papyrus read:

"In the seventh year of the reign of the renowned Emperor, C. Julius Caesar Octavianus, I,
Demetriades, son of Pelopidos, merchant of Syracuse, being at that time a trader in ivory and
skins at Alexandria, did foolishly abandon my wares in that city, and join the legion sent
from Egypt to subdue the people of Shaba."

He saw that the letters in the word "seventh," though writ in archaic Greek, bore the same
space relation to the neighboring characters as did all others in the script. Reading on carefully
until he came to the first leaf of the papyri in which the "Five Hills" were named, he observed
Instantly that the word "pente," five, had its letters crowded together. Now the Greek for
seven, hepta, has only four characters, the aspirate being marked over the initial vowel. This
same crowding of "pente" was discernible each time it occurred in the text. It was a coincidence
that was too intrusive. The obvious explanation was that "hepta" had been deleted and "pente"
substituted in every instance, and the fraud had not been detected because the rest of the
Greek writing was absolutely genuine. The hieroglyphs In cartouches, which von Kerber had admittedly
tampered with, were beyond Royson's ken.

He was so taken up with this confirmation of his views, and so eager to make clear the queer
chance that led Abdur Kad'r to explain the name of the Well of Moses, that he was blind to
the growing wrath in Mr. Fenshawe's face until he happened to catch the indignant note in the
older man's voice as he bade a servant summon the sheikh. Then a single glance told him what
he had done. The wounded vanity of the famous Egyptologist had risen in its might, and swept
aside all other considerations. The man of wealth could permit his charitable instincts to
govern the scorn evoked by the Austrian's petty tactics, but the outraged enthusiasm of the
collector was a torrent that engulfed charity and expediency alike in its flood. Nothing short
of the most painstaking personal examination of the oasis at the Well of Moses would now convince
the millionaire that von Kerber had not tricked him at the eleventh hour.

Though the expedition was in Italian territory, though he was aware that a tribe of hostile
Arabs was already hovering on the outskirts of the camp, though the presence of Irene rendered
it imperative that he should not risk the attack which would probably be made that night, these
urgent conditions of the moment did not prevail in the least degree against the maddening suspicion
that the self-confessed forger who had duped him had put the seal on a piece of clever rascality
by exploiting the real treasure-ground for his own benefit.

Royson was far from expecting this development. Yet, now that it had occurred, he saw that
it was inevitable. Before Abdur Kad'r appeared he guessed why Mr. Fenshawe wanted him in such
a hurry. Irene, who had never known her grandfather to be so greatly disturbed, whispered earnestly
to her lover:

"If grandad wishes you to follow von Kerber, you must be too ill to do anything of the sort."

"Then I shall remain here alone," said he, smiling at her dismay. "Unless I am much mistaken
we shall all be hot on his track before we are many hours older."

He was right. When the sheikh came he received orders to prepare for an instant march towards
the coast by way of the caravan route. Then the burning zeal of archeology received a check.

"It is impossible that the kafila should move in that direction before to-morrow's dawn, O
worthy of honor," said Abdur Kad'r emphatically. "We can march south to-day, if Allah wills
it, knowing that we shall find food and water within fifteen kilometers without fail. To reach
the Well of Moses is a different thing. I have not seen the place during thirty years. We must
travel early and late, and carry with us a water supply that will not only suffice for the
journey but safeguard us against any failure of the well when we arrive there. What proof have
we, Effendi, that it is not choked with sand?"

Fenshawe was too skilled in the varying contingencies of desert life not to admit the truth
of the sheikh's reasoning, but he held to the belief that von Kerber had secret information
as to the practicability of the route.

"Be it so," he said curtly. "Let every preparation be made. We have no cause to fear these
dogs of Hadendowas. I charge myself with the care of the camp where they are concerned. See
to it, Abdur Kad'r, that we start ere sunrise."

The conversation was in Arabic, so Stump could not gather its drift. When he learnt his employer's
intentions he roared gleefully:

"By gad, sir, I'm pleased to 'ear you're makin' for blue water once more. Just for a minute
I fancied you was tellin' our brown pilot to shove after von Kerber, an' string 'im up."

Mr. Fenshawe laughed grimly.

"The rogue deserves it, but I cannot take the law into my own hands, captain," he said.

"Oh, that wasn't botherin' me," was the offhand answer. "I was on'y wonderin' where you would
find a suitable tree."

Fenshawe bent over the table, and asked Royson to go through the papyri with him, comparing
the Greek, word for word, with the translation. He himself was able to decipher the hieroglyphs,
but the details and measurements they gave might be dismissed as unreliable. Depending, however,
on the context, and having ascertained from Abdur Kad'r that the seven small lava hills at
Moses's Well stood in an irregular circle near the oasis, it was a reasonable deduction that
the Romans had selected a low-lying patch of sand or gravel somewhere in the center of the
group as a suitable hiding-place for their loot. It might be assumed that Aelius Gallus meant
to sail down the Red Sea again, within a year at the utmost, and recover the spoil when his
galleys were there to receive it. Therefore, he would not dig too deeply, nor, in the straits
to which he was reduced, would he waste many hours on the task.

Fenshawe infected Dick with his own ardor. The two were puzzling over each turn and twist of
the Greek adventurer's awkward phrases when Irene, who had gone out with Stump, interrupted them.

"Dick," she said, blushing poppy red because she used his familiar name, "you must go and rest
at once. I am sure, grandad, you don't want Mr. Royson to break down a second time, do you?
And I would like both of you to know that Baron von Kerber took with him no pickaxes. Captain
Stump and I have just checked our stock. That seems to be in his favor, I think?"

"If I have done von Kerber an injustice I shall be the first to ask his pardon," said Fenshawe.
"At present, I have every cause to doubt the man's motives in leaving us, and I want more than
negative proof to acquit him of dishonesty. By the way, Irene, have you told Royson of his
good fortune?"

"I have hardly spoken two words to him since he arrived," said she innocently.

"Dear me! That sounds like a strong hint," and Fenshawe very considerately left the two alone.
Tired as Dick was, the best part of an hour elapsed before Irene could explain fully that he
was now a baronet, with a reasonably large income, or he could make her understand exactly
why he was a somewhat frayed out-of-work when they met in London.

Perhaps there were interludes and interruptions. Perhaps he thought that the limpid depths
of her brown eyes offered more attractions than the sordid records of a foolish man's spite
and a boy's sufferings. At any rate, it was Irene who finally insisted that this must positively
be the last, and who threatened that she would not speak to him again that day if he stirred
out of his tent before dinner.

And, indeed, Dick required no rocking when, after a refreshing wash, he stretched his long
limbs in his hammock. His sleep was dreamless. He awoke at sundown strong in the conviction
that he had hardly closed his eyes.

He and Stump shared the tent, and Dick's uncertain gaze first dwelt on his skipper, who was
seated at the door, smoking. Stump removed his pipe from between his teeth:

"Good evenin', Sir Richard," he said solemnly. Then the huge joke he had been cogitating ever
since Irene informed him at luncheon that Royson was now a man of title mastered him completely.

"Sink me," he burst forth, "I've had some daisies of second mates under me in me time, but
I've never bossed a bloomin' barrow-knight afore. My godfather! Won't Becky be pleased! An'
wot'll Tagg say? Pore old Tagg! He'll 'ave a fit!"

"Look here, captain--" began Dick, swinging his feet to the ground. But Stump's slow-moving
wits, given full time to get under weigh, were working freely; punctuating each pause with
a flourish of his pipe, he continued:

"Lord love a duck, I can see Tagg blowin' in to a snug in the West Injia Dock Road, an' startin'
ev'ry yarn with, 'W'en I sailed down the Red Sea with Sir Richard--' or, 'We was goin' through
the Gut on a dirty night, an' Sir Richard sez to me--' Well, there, I on'y hope 'e survives
the fust shock. W'en 'e gets 'is wind we'll 'ave a fair treat. Mind ye, I 'ad a sort of funny
feelin' when you tole me in the train you was my second mate, an' you sat there a-wearin' knickers.
It gev me a turn, that did. An' then, you took another twist at me by sayin' you'd never bin
to sea. I knew things was goin' to happen after that. It must ha' bin, wot d'ye call it--second
sight--for I knew then an' there I'd got a prize in the lottery--"

"Oh, shut up!" shouted Royson, diving frantically for his boots.

"That's no way for a barrow-knight to talk to 'is admirin' skipper," said Stump. "But I s'pose,
now, it sounds queer to 'ave me a-callin' you Sir Richard, w'en, as like as not, I might be
dammin' your eyes as second mate?"

Royson tried to escape, in his hurry he did not notice a bulky letter which lay on the top
of one of his leather trunks. Stump called him back.

"You're missin' your mail, Sir Richard," he said, and Dick, perforce, returned. Oddly enough,
the letter covered the initials "R. K." painted on the portmanteau. Turning a deaf ear to Stump's
further pleasantries, he opened the envelope. A scrawl on a sheet of thin continental note-
paper contained the brief statement that, "by inadvertence," von Kerber had "detained the enclosed
letters and cablegrams." The enclosures, which were from Mr. Forbes, bore out the accuracy
of Mrs. Haxton's revelations. He was, in very truth, the twenty-seventh baronet of his line,
sole owner of Orme Castle and its dependencies, and befitted, by rank, descent, and estate,
to take a social position of no mean order.

For an instant he forgot his surroundings. He recalled the stately old house and its beautiful
park as he had last seen it, with all its glories rejuvenated by the money that was pouring
in to the coffers of his detested relative. And now that malign old man was at rest, after
a tardy admission of the grievous evil he had wrought to his brother's wife and son. Well,
peace be to his crooked bones! Dick could have wished him safely in Paradise if the wish would
restore to life his beloved mother. And she, dear soul--though he had forgotten her last night--perhaps
her gentle spirit was shielding him as he stood with his back to the rock and faced the vicious
swarm of Arabs in the darkness.

Then Stump's gruff accents broke in on his dreaming.

"Is it O.K., Sir Richard?" he asked. "Them's the papers von Kerber held up, I reckon? Have
ye got a clean bill?"

Royson stooped and grasped Stump's shoulder.

"When we reach England, skipper," he said, "you and Tagg, and Mrs. Stump, too, for that matter,
must come and see my place in the North. An' I'll tell ye wot," he went on, with fair mimicry
of Stump's voice and manner, "you'll all 'ave the time of your lives, sink me, if you don't!"

Stump glared up at him. No man had ever before dared to reproduce that hoarse growl for his
edification, and the effect was electrical. It might be likened to the influence exercised
on a bull by the bellow of a rival. He took breath for a mighty effort--and Royson fled.

Be sure that Irene, though vastly occupied with work which von Kerber had performed hitherto--those
small but troublesome items appertaining to the daily life of a large encampment--had an eye
to watch for Dick's reappearance. She hailed him joyfully:

"Such news! The enemy proclaims a truce. Alfieri has sent in Hussain and Abdullah, not to mention
the purloined camel. And one of his own men has brought a note for grandfather, asking an early
conference."

At first, Royson was unfeignedly glad of this unlooked for turn in events. He did not share
Mr. Fenshawe's optimism in the matter of a night attack by the Hadendowas, because Irene was
there--and who could hope to shield her beyond risk of accident when long-range rifles were
sniping the camp?

Alfieri's letter was civil and apologetic. He explained that he had no quarrel with the English
leader of the expedition--his feud lay with the Austrian and the woman who had helped to despoil
him (Alfieri) of his rights. He felt assured, he said, that Signor Fenshawe--whose fame as
an Egyptologist was well known to him--would not be a consenting party to fraud, and he wished,
therefore, to arrange a meeting for the following day, when he would state his case fully,
face those who had robbed him, and leave the final decision with confidence in the hands of
one whose repute made it certain that justice would be done.

The appeal was written in hardly intelligible English, but an Italian version accompanied it,
and Irene was able to translate every word of the latter.

"Of course, grandad agreed," said Irene. "He has fixed on seven o'clock to-morrow for the conference.
I am looking forward with curiosity to seeing Alfieri again. I remember him perfectly. Captain
Stump and I had a good look at him in Massowah, you know."

"Has the messenger gone back already?"

"Oh, yes. He left the camp two hours ago."

"Did he speak to any of our men?"

"He may have done so. I'm not sure. We were so taken up with Alfieri's communication that we
gave no heed to the Arab. But grandad said, by the way, that it was just as well he should
see our strength, and that we had a dozen armed sailors here, in addition to so many natives.
You are worrying about me, I suppose? Allow me to observe that I, as staff officer, have assisted
the commander-in-chief to divide our forces into two strong guards for the night. Grandfather
commands one, Captain Stump the other, while you, O King, have to sleep soundly until the dawn."

"But I have just slept eight hours!"

"Oh, well, being on the staff, I also arranged that we should mount guard together until eleven
o'clock."

It went against the grain to dash her high spirits with the doubt that had seized him as soon
as he heard of the Hadendowa Arab's departure. In all probability, the man had found out that
von Kerber and Mrs. Haxton were no longer in the camp. The negro syces and other attendants
were inveterate gossips, and it would be strange if they had not told him that some of their
number were marching towards the sea with the Hakim-Effendi and one of the Giaour women. What
would happen were this knowledge to come to Alfieri's ears? The man who had not scrupled to
order the pursuit and capture--the death, if need be--of Royson himself and Abdur Kad'r, was
not a stickler at trifles. It was reasonable to suppose that he was making overtures of peace
solely because his scouts had revealed the size of the expedition. How would he act under these
fresh circumstances? Judging by the pact, there could be only one answer.

"Now what is it?" pouted Irene, trying to assume an injured air when she saw the grave look
in her lover's face. "Perhaps you don't care for the eleven o'clock idea? I thought you would
like to sit and smoke, and tell me everything that happened since--since I said good-by to
you the other evening, but, of course--"

"If you gaze at me so reproachfully, Irene, I shall kiss you now, this instant, under the eyes
of every man, horse, and camel."

"Well, then, what is the matter? I know something is worrying you. I can read your face like
a book."

"I distrust Alfieri, dearest,--that is all."

"But he simply dare not fight us. Grandad knows these Arabs for many years. He says that they
depend wholly on a surprise. And how can we be surprised, when Alfieri himself admits that
he is near, and has actually sent Abdullah, who can tell us the exact number of his men?"

"I think I shall call you Portia, not Irene, if you reason things out in that fashion."

She stamped a foot in mock anger.

"That is your old trick," she said. "You try to hide your thoughts by an adroit twist in the
conversation. Out with it! What do you really fear?"

"Let us find Abdullah. Then I shall tell you."

The Spear-thrower, though polite, was not disposed to be communicative. The absence of the
two people who were his allies had puzzled him, and none of the Arabs could meet his inquiries
as to the motives which led to their sudden journey. In this man's attitude Royson found ample
corroboration of his own estimate of Alfieri's views under similar conditions. Abdullah obviously
did not believe that von Kerber had abandoned the quest. He fancied he was betrayed. If the
chance offered, he might be expected to throw in his lot with Alfieri.

Though Irene was listening, and Dick was sure she had hit on the true cause of his anxiety,
he determined to win Abdullah's loyalty. So he told him of Mr. Fenshawe's resolve to follow
the seaward route.

"Your interests, whatever they may be, are absolutely safe if you trust us," he said. "The
Baron, is only two marches ahead of us. He does not know we are going the same way. He thinks
we are making for Pajura, so we will most certainly overtake him at the coast, if not earlier.
Thus, you can convince yourself of his good faith, and you can see for yourself that the ultimate
decision of affairs must rest with us."

The Arab bowed, but he kept a still tongue. Yet he admitted afterwards that Royson's words
had diverted him from his fixed Intent to steal off when night fell, and urge Alfieri to pursue
the runaways.

The Italian needed no urging. Dick advised Mr. Fenshawe to send out two men on horseback in
order to locate the Hadendowas. Hussain, who was acquainted with the country, volunteered for
this duty, and he and his companion came in at midnight with the depressing report that Alfieri
and his free-booters were not to be found on the main track to Suleiman's Well.

By this time, not only Fenshawe and Irene, but Stump and Abdur Kad'r, when called into counsel,
shared Dick's foreboding. It was impossible to do anything before dawn, and the sole difficulty
that remained was to decide whether they should march, when the first streaks of light showed
in the sky, or await the hour fixed for the interview with Alfieri. They resolved to leave
Hussain and a few trustworthy men at the oasis, with instructions to remain there until eight
o'clock. If Alfieri kept his tryst, they were to give him a letter, written by Irene, which
asked him to follow and join the expedition. Otherwise, they were to ride after the caravan
at top speed, and report his non- arrival.

So Dick and Irene missed that agreeable watch under the stars, and their thoughts, instead
of being given to each other, were centered on the unlucky fortune-hunters whom accident or
design had separated from them.

Yet, when the sun rose over the desert, it was exhilarating enough to find themselves riding
side by side once more. The order of march was simple but well designed. Abdur Kad'r, in command
of several Arabs on Bisharin camels, provided a mounted screen half a mile in front. Fenshawe,
Royson and Irene, with some of the sailors, formed the advance guard. Then came the kafila
proper, with the remainder of the Aphrodite's crew, under Stump's charge, as a rearguard. They
had halted for breakfast, and were preparing for another long march before the heat of the
sun enforced a rest, when Hussain overtook them. At eight o'clock Alfieri had not visited the
rendezvous, nor was he to be seen an hour later from the summit of the last hill which gave
a view of the oasis.

Ill news is little the better because it is expected, and every one was wishful to push on
as quickly as possible. But the desert was inexorable in its limitations. Great speed means
great exhaustion, and consequently greater demand for water. Nevertheless, they risked the
chance of a dry spell at the journey's end, and, finally, despite Irene's protests against
being left behind, Royson and Abdullah, with six of the Aphrodite's men, and Abdur Kad'r, at
the head of thirty picked Arabs, went on at a spanking pace. They were now on the actual caravan
path, having reached it by a cross-country line. According to the sheikh's calculations, they
were ten miles from the Well of Moses at four o'clock, and sunset would take place at half-past
six. The road was a bad one, and their camels were beginning to lag, but they counted on reaching
the ancient camping-ground about half past five. Abdullah was the first to discover recent
signs of a large kafila having passed that way. He it was, too, who raised a warning hand when
they emerged from a wide valley and crossed a plateau, which, roughly speaking, was three miles
from the well.

They halted, and strained eyes and ears. They could see nothing, owing to a few scattered hummocks
in front, but they caught distinctly the irregular thuds of distant rifle-firing. That was
enough. Careless of the rough going, or the condition of their camels at the close, they raced
ahead madly. There was no question now of the odds they might have to face. Though the Hadendowas
were well armed, and outnumbered them by two to one, Royson felt that the presence of the Englishmen,
all of whom were ex-sailors of the Royal Navy, would nerve his Arab helpers to attack and defeat
Alfieri's band of cutthroats. Moreover, von Kerber and his small escort were evidently making
a fight of it, and, while daylight lasted, the Hadendowas, once discovered, would endeavor
to shoot down their quarry at a safe range rather than undergo the certain loss of an open assault.

How long could the unequal contest be maintained--that was the question that tortured Dick.
Many times during that wild ride he asked it, and the only answer he received was given by
despair. It came to him through a spume of dust and flying sand, and the rattle of accouterments,
and the plaints of frenzied camels, and the yells and curses of the strangely-assorted company
of deliverers as they plunged across the desert towards the Well of the Seven Hills. And its
discordant shriek was, "Too late! Too late! The gods have frowned on the pillagers of Saba,
and the wrath of the gods is everlasting!"

CHAPTER XVIII

THE FINDING OF THE TREASURE

Royson, a soldier by instinct if not by training, realized the folly of dashing blindly into
a fray the nature of which was hidden from him. Though the plight of his erstwhile companions
must be desperate--though the lengthening shadows warned him that the time ran short--it was
all- important that he should learn the manner and direction of the attack, and the means adopted
by von Kerber for repelling it, ere the presence of the relieving force became known. He had
heard much of the fighting qualities of the Hadendowas. They were brave, but they were not
given to throwing their lives away uselessly. Judging by the steady crackling of musketry,
they were "eating up" the smaller contingent with the least possible risk to themselves. They
were quite capable of delivering a fierce charge when they witnessed the approach of the rescuers,
or, on the other hand, they might allow the newcomers to combine with von Kerber, and depend
on their rifle fire to dispose of the reinforced defense. He must decide quickly, once he knew
the conditions, and it was imperative, therefore, that something in the nature of a reconnaissance
should be conducted from the shoulder of the rising ground which terminated the plateau. By
shouting to Abdur Kad'r and signaling to his own men, Dick managed to check the furious onward
rush of the detachment. It was no easy matter to stop the excited camels. The stubborn brutes
were equally unwilling either to travel at such a rate or to abandon it. Before the sky-line
was reached, however, they were pulled up. Royson, Abdur Kad'r and Abdullah dismounted, and
ran rapidly to the crest, dodging behind rocks and broken ground until they secured a clear
view of the panorama in front. It was a singular and, in one respect, a disconcerting scene
that met their anxious gaze.

The only practicable road descended rapidly towards an immensely wide and shallow depression.
Conceivably, this basin might have been formed by the subsidence of the land all round an extinct
volcano, whose one- time activity was revealed by a cluster of small cones in the distance.
Running due east, and passing north of the crater thus curiously marked, was the arid river-bed
which created the oasis, and rendered possible the well which gave its name to the place. Unfortunately,
the group of lava hillocks was situated much beyond the center of the hollow. They were commanded
by small hills on three sides, and, though capable of defense in some respects, they offered
the grave disadvantage of being in a circle. Consequently, the only section secure from an
enemy's fire was that on the western side, and it was evident that the defenders had found
this to be actually the case. They were, of course, clearly visible from the ridge, where,
unknown to them, the leader of a strong relief was then lying in the cleft of a rock split
to its base by extremes of heat and cold.

Dick counted the cones. There were seven, of them. Though fully a mile and a half distant,
he could see Mrs. Haxton sitting between two huge boulders. Von Kerber was near her, and the
few Arabs with them were scattered among the rocks in positions whence they could return the
incessant fusillade poured on them from the hills. Their camels were huddled in a hollow between
the two westerly mounds, and, so far as Royson could judge, the little party had not yet sustained
many casualties. But the tactics of their assailants were quite obvious. The Hadendowas, silently
and unseen, had occupied the higher ground on the north, east, and south. They had probably
stampeded the unsuspecting kafila from the open oasis, because a couple of tents and some camp
equipage still stood there, and it was their intent to creep nearer, pushing the horns of an
ever-closing crescent steadily westward, until a junction effected just before sunset would
permit of a successful rush. Indeed, all doubt on this point was dispelled by the discovery
of two strong companies of Hadendowas gathering on the reverse slopes of the nearest hills.
They were mounted, mostly on camels. They did not reveal their existence by taking part in
the firing. They seemed to be waiting some signal before they rode out into the plain, to complete
the merciless ring which would then surround the doomed occupants of the Seven Hills.

There was not a moment to be lost, and Royson, having formed his plan, put it into instant
operation. He and the six sailors would be the first to cross the sky-line, while a few Arabs
would accompany them, but hurry back as soon as they were visible, giving the impression that
they had gone to summon others. The men from the Aphrodite would ride straight, at top speed,
towards the beleaguered party. Two minutes later, Abdur Kad'r was to lead half his Arabs over
the ridge and make for the enemy's right wing, while, after a similar interval, Abdullah, at
the head of the remaining detachment, would similarly dash into sight and advance against the
enemy's left. The opposing force would thus see three successive waves of rescuers, each apparently
stronger than its predecessor, coming from the only direction whence succor was possible. Alfieri
and his followers were well aware already of the strength of Mr. Fenshawe's expedition. If
they imagined that it was advancing in its full numbers, they might break and run without firing
another shot. If, however, they showed fight, Abdur Kad'r and Abdullah had most stringent orders
not to pursue the flanking parties, which they would certainly drive in on the main body. They
were to converge towards the hillocks, where Royson would, by that time, have brought hope
and renewed courage to their hard-pressed friends. Then, granted that the Hadendowas dared
a general attack, the whole force, rescuers and rescued, were to fall back, converting the
struggle Into a rear- guard action, and compelling the Hadendowas to relinquish the advantage
of the higher ground. Once they came into the open, Royson counted on the superior shooting
of his six sailors--all marksmen of the Royal Navy--to turn the scale unmistakably in his favor,
while his Arabs had the confidence of knowing that each mile they gained in the retreat brought
them nearer the powerful caravan in the rear.

The scheme was excellent in every way. Under ordinary conditions it would have achieved success,
but the sane mind can never take into reckoning the vagaries of the insane, and it is quite
certain that Alfieri, worn alike by hardship and long brooding over his wrongs, either went
stark staring mad at the spectacle of relief being forthcoming for those whom he believed to
be entrapped, or gave instant rein to the frenzy already consuming him.

At a moment, then, when it was suicidal to attempt an attack which his men had refused to carry
out under the much less dangerous conditions that prevailed all day--it was ascertained afterwards
that the first shower of bullets fell into the startled camp about ten o'clock that morning--at
that moment, Alfieri, screaming curses in Italian and Arabic, called on those nearest to follow
him, and rode out from the shelter of one of the small hills. In sheer excitement, a few Hadendowas
obeyed his wild command. They had not far to go, but the rocky water-course barred the track
and they must cross it slowly. Now, above all else, was the time for the sorely-tried little
band under von Kerber to stand fast. They could have shot at their leisure Alfieri and each
man of the half dozen who came with him. Already three groups of yelling men were stirring
the dust into life as they scampered to the rescue across the comparatively level floor of
the basin. In five minutes, or less, the Hadendowa attack would be rolled back into the hills,
and neither friend nor foe had any other thought than that the whole of Mr. Fenshawe's kafila
was pouring its irresistible power into the fray.

The situation was precisely one of the suddenly-arising and acute crises in warfare which accentuate
the difference between races. While von Kerber, and Mrs. Haxton, too, for that matter, saw
the urgent need of prolonging the desperate strife for just those few minutes, their Arabs,
after fighting coolly and bravely throughout an exhausting day, now quite lost their heads.
Heedless of the Austrian's prayers and imprecations, heedless of Mrs. Haxton's shrill appeal
that they should beat off the few assailants then perilously close at hand, they yielded to
the blind instinct of self-preservation, and rushed pell-mell for the camels. At once these
men of a martial tribe, men who had cheerfully faced the far greater danger of the Hadendowa
general attack, became untrammeled savages, each striving like a maniac to secure a mount for
himself, and careless whether or not his employers and comrades escaped also.

Many of the camels were wounded, some were dead, and valuable time was wasted, even in this
disgraceful sauve qui peut, in a deadly struggle for possession of such animals as could move.
Von Kerber, when it was borne in on him that to obtain a camel meant life for Mrs. Haxton and
himself, shouted to her to keep close to him, and ran in front of a mounted Arab who had emerged
from the melee. He ordered the man to halt, and, so near were Royson and his tiny squadron
just then, that the camel might have brought all three into safety. But the Arab bent his head,
and urged the swaying beast into a faster trot. Von Kerber fired at him, and the unhappy tribesman
tumbled from his perch like a dummy figure. Snatching at the camel's head-rope, the Austrian
lifted, almost threw Mrs. Haxton up to the saddle. Owing to its height from the ground, it
was impossible to place her there securely, but she helped him bravely, scrambled somehow to
the awkward seat, and stooped to drag him up behind. She had succeeded, by main force. The
excited beast was plunging forward again to get away from the affrighting turmoil close to
its heels, when a heavy thud shook the huge frame, the camel fell to its knees, lurched over
on its side, and threw both riders heavily.

Von Kerber alone rose. He was dazed for an instant, but he seemed to have a dim consciousness
of the quarter from which mortal peril threatened, for he turned and faced Alfieri, who had
reined in the Somali pony he rode and was taking deliberate aim at his enemy. The Italian carried
a repeating, rifle. It was he who had brought down the camel with a well-judged shot through
the lungs, and, with the same venomous accuracy, he now sent a bullet through von Kerber's
breast. The stricken man dropped on all fours, and glared up at his murderer. Then, nerving
himself for a supreme effort of hate, he raised his own revolver and fired three times at Alfieri.
Twice he missed, owing to the restiveness of the horse, but the third shot hit the Italian
in the center of the forehead.

When Royson found them, they were lying within a few feet of each other. Alfieri was dead.
His pale student's features, softened by the great change, wore a queer look of surprise. Von
Kerber was alive, but dying. He had fallen on his face, and Dick lifted him gently, resting
the drooping head against his knee.

"Are you badly wounded?" he asked, knowing well by the ashen pallor beneath the bronze of the
desert that the man's stormy life was fast ebbing to its close. A dreadful froth bubbled from
von Kerber's lips, and the words came brokenly:

"That Italian beast--I hit him, yes?"

"I suppose so. I could not see what happened. But he is dead. Pay no heed to him. Tell me what
is best to be done for you."

"Dead! Ach, lieber Gott! That is good.... I--I am finished--I know.... Go to Mrs. Haxton. Tell
her ... the treasure ... Fenshawe will be generous...."

And that was all. He did not die instantly, but consciousness failed, and the soul soon fluttered
out of the limp body with a sigh.

Dick laid the inanimate form on the desert. He went to look for Mrs. Haxton. She was stretched,
apparently lifeless, beneath the camel's Shoulder. Royson seized the huge beast by the neck
and flung it aside bodily. So far as he could judge, she was uninjured, though he feared the
camel might have broken one of her limbs or fractured a rib, because his first thought was
that the animal had fallen on top of her. But his anxiety was soon dispelled when he forced
some of the contents of his water-bottle between, her set teeth. She sobbed twice, and her
bosom rose and fell spasmodically. Then, with a sudden return to the full use of her senses
which, was almost uncanny, she wrested herself free from his arms and shrank away, quivering,
while her eyes gazed at him with awful questioning. As she looked she seemed to understand
that this man who had held her so tenderly was not the man whom she feared to see. The reaction
was too great. Dick watched the glance of recognition fading away into insensibility. With
a little gasp, she fainted again, but he knew, this time, that her collapse was the natural
sequel to the ordeal she had gone through. He roughly bundled a camel cloth into a pillow,
laid her head on it, and gave the attention that was necessary to events elsewhere.

He had appreciated the fatal error of the friendly Arabs in deserting their stronghold. Though
he and his companions pressed on at a dangerous speed, they could do nothing to stop the panic.
Some of the runaways almost charged into them, and seriously interfered with their view of
the advancing Hadendowas. That was only for a moment, but seconds are precious when men are
shooting at point-blank range, and Royson was lashing an Arab out of his path at the instant
Alfieri fired the first shot at the double-laden camel. The Hadendowas scattered and fled when
they caught a glimpse of the white faces. But they did not get away unscathed. Slipping out
of their saddles, four of the Aphrodite's crew opened fire, and brought five of the robber
tribesmen headlong to earth, while the sixth saved his skin by falling with his wounded camel
and skulking unnoticed to the hills along the water-course. As for the remainder, the flanking
parties bolted before Abdur Kad'r or Abdullah could get within striking distance, and from
that hour no sensible Hadendowa came near the Well of Moses for many a month.

In fact, Royson found that his own men were already standing quietly in a group, waiting for
orders, and the two detachments of caravan Arabs were coming in from the wings in accordance
with his preconcerted plan. Some of the bolting escort were returning. They looked shamefaced
when they passed von Kerber lying dead on the ground. One of them, a Hadji, who wore the green
turban and black cloak of a pilgrim to Mecca, began to murmur an explanation to Royson, but
the giant Effendi gave him such a glance of scorn and anger that the man made off, lest the
evil from which he had fled might yet befall him. In the immediate foreground were several
prostrate forms, mostly Arabs injured in the fight for the camels, and so gravely wounded that
they could not move. A struggling camel or two, screaming and kicking in agony, seemed to be
strangely out of place in the peaceful hush which instantly enfolded the desert. The shouting
and musketry that made pandemonium there a few minutes earlier had vanished. The tops of the
more distant mountains were glowing in purple and gold, and the blue of the sky was deepening.
In that brief hour before the utter darkness that follows sunset the desert has a rare beauty.
It has lights and shades denied to softer landscapes. Titania's bower can show no more brilliant
color effects. It is then a fit background for romance and mystery, but it breathes no hint
of war or death, and such things wear a sacrilegious aspect when brought forcibly into those
fairy-like surroundings.

Royson, though he had watched the transformation of rock and arid earth many a time with kindling
eyes, gave small heed to the dream-face of nature as he scanned the splendid prospect for sign
of further attack by the Hadendowas. He found none, but he happened to note the furtive manner
of some among the Arab escort who were hastening toward the small hollow enclosed by the Seven
Hills.

Then he remembered why this solitary place had become a Golgotha. The hapless von Kerber was
disinterring the treasure when the Hadendowa assault began. In all likelihood, had the free-booters
ridden boldly up in the first instance, the fight would have ended in less minutes than it
had occupied hours. And these other ghouls, before they were driven off by a hail of lead,
had learnt what store of wealth was buried there beneath the sand.

"Chaytor," said Royson, addressing one of the crew who had acted as quartermaster on board
the yacht, "take three men and mount guard over any trench or other excavation you may find
in the valley between those mounds. Let no Arab even approach the place. Use force if necessary,
but try and avoid any shooting. I shall join you there before sunset."

"Ay, ay, sir," said Chaytor. He named three men, and the four hurried to their post. Bidding
the other two sailors help him, Royson turned to carry out a disagreeable task. Von Kerber,
Alfieri, and the rest must be buried while there was yet light. He meant to make a rough inventory
of documents and letters found in the pockets of the Europeans. The Arabs would scoop shallow
graves where the sand was deepest, and pile heavy stones over the bodies to protect them from
jackals. Such was the simple ceremony of the desert. And it demanded haste.

But a distressing sight awaited him. Mrs. Haxton was kneeling by von Kerber's side, and weeping
in a heart-broken way. He went to her, and said, almost in a whisper:

"You can do no good by remaining here. Won't you go to the tent that is fixed in the oasis,
and wait there until I join you? I shall not be long. You understand--it is for the best."

She raised her streaming eyes, and he had never before seen such a grief-stricken face.

"Mr. Royson," she murmured dully, "let me pray yet a little while."

"Indeed I am sorry for you," he said. "Yet I must urge you to go. We have not a moment to lose."

"To lose? What else can happen?"

"The night is coming. We cannot leave the bodies here. It would be too horrible."

"Ah," she sighed, "there is no horror to equal mine. I have the blood of three men on my soul."

She suffered him to lead her away. He tried to console her by throwing all the responsibility
on to the Italian. But he felt that this palsied woman scarce listened to his words. He was
almost glad to leave her alone with her mournful thoughts. In active work he could find distraction
from the sad influences of this fatal treasure-hunt. There were still many things he did not
comprehend, but he resolutely dismissed all self-communing. Perhaps, when the first paroxysm
of woe had exhausted itself, Mrs. Haxton might explain; meanwhile, he must endeavor to hide
the chief features of the tragedy ere Irene arrived.

When he moved Alfieri's body is order to examine his clothing, he saw that the man's coat was
torn at the breast, the cloth having caught a jagged rock as its wearer fell from the saddle.
Through this rent a pocketbook and some papers had slipped out. They were resting on a little
sand drift at the base of the rock that had caused the damage. The pocketbook was open. Some
of the sand had entered its compartments. And, in one of them, were the papyrus leaves found
in the tomb of Demetriades, the Greek, whose mortal eyes were the last that had gazed on the
treasure of Sheba! In truth, here was one of the world's dramas, with its scenes divided by
two thousand years, yet the parched desert was content to wait there placidly, in sure and
certain knowledge that the curtain would rise again on that grim play, whether the years were
few or many between the acts. How little changed was the stage. But what of the actors? Did
the modern troupe differ so greatly from the two-thousand-year-old cast--the merchant in ivory
and skins who quitted his quiet business at Alexandria to seek adventure and gold, the Romans
who went to kill and plunder an inoffensive people, the Nubians who waylaid them, and left
their bones to bleach? Assuredly, looking at the dozen or more dead bodies stretched in a row
at his feet, Royson deemed mankind as unchangeable as the desert.

       *       *       *       *       *

At two o'clock, when the stars and a new moon were dimly lighting the circle of hills, an Arab
vedette reported the approach of a large kafila from the west. Soon the jingle of accouterments
and the cries of camels who scented the oasis heralded the arrival of the main body. When Dick
lifted a weary Irene from the saddle he made no pretense of shyness, but kissed her quite heartily.

Yet Dick's tidings caused grave faces in the small circle round the camp-fire. Mr. Fenshawe,
as responsible leader of the expedition, felt the weight of this added burthen of death. There
was no gainsaying the fact that he had been dragged into an unlawful enterprise. He was in
Italian territory against the will of the authorities. Though he and those under his control
were guiltless of actual wrong-doing, it was exceedingly unfortunate that Alfieri had not lived
to make a deposition. The treasure-seekers must now depend on the testimony of the wounded
Hadendowas, four of whom had surrendered voluntarily, for the one great principle which the
East has learnt from the West is that Europeans usually show humanity to a disabled foe. Abdullah,
too, assured the millionaire that the Italian officer who accompanied Alfieri from Massowah
warned the latter against any act of violence, and would have restrained him from undertaking
an apparently useless search if the instructions received from Rome had not directed that "every
assistance was to be given to Signor Giuseppe Alfieri."

