"Now, don't be curious, dear Lucy," said Eleanor, taking her hand. "We shall know in time."

"I will not, I am not," said Lucy, magnanimously.  "We will not say one single word, Eleanor,
and I will not look as if I knew anything. Come down, and we will see if we can do any of Rose's
work, for we must be very useful, you know; I wish I might tell poor Deb that Edmund is safe."

Walter was wise in secluding himself in his disguise.  He remained undisturbed for some time,
while Deborah's unassisted genius was exerted to provide the rebels with breakfast.  The first
interruption was from Eleanor, who knocked at the door, beginning to call "Walter," and then
hastily turning it into "Rose!"  He opened, and she said, with tears in her eyes, "O Walter,
Walter, the wicked men are really going to take dear mother away to prison.  She is come down
with her cloak and hood on, and is asking for you--Rose I mean-- to wish good-bye.  Will you come?"

"Yes," said Walter; "and Edmund--"

"They were just sending up to call him," said Eleanor; "they will find it out in--"

Eleanor's speech was cut short by a tremendous uproar in the next room.  "Ha!  How?  Where
are they?  How now?  Escaped!" with many confused exclamations, and much trampling of heavy
boots.  Eleanor stood frightened, Walter clapped his hands, cut a very unfeminine caper, clenched
his fist, and shook it at the wall, and exclaimed in an exulting whisper, "Ha! ha! my fine
fellows!  You may look long enough for him!" then ran downstairs at full speed, and entered
the hall.  His mother, dressed for a journey, stood by the table; a glance of hope and joy
lighting on her pale features, but her swollen eyelids telling of a night of tears and sleeplessness.
Lucy and Charles were by her side, the front door open, and the horses were being led up and
down before it.  Walter and Eleanor hurried up to her, but before they had time to speak, the
rebel captain dashed into the room, exclaiming, "Thou treacherous woman, thou shalt abye this!
Here! mount, pursue, the nearest road to the coast.  Smite them rather than let them escape.
The malignant nursling of the blood- thirsty Palatine at large again!  Follow, and overtake,
I say!"

"Which way, sir?" demanded the corporal.

"The nearest to the coast.  Two ride to Chichester, two to Gosport. Or here!  Where is that
maiden, young in years, but old in wiles? Ah, there! come hither, maiden.  Wilt thou purchase
grace for thy mother by telling which way the prisoners are fled?  I know thy wiles, and will
visit them on thee and on thy father's house, unless thou dost somewhat to merit forgiveness."

"What do you mean?" demanded Walter, swelling with passion.

"Do not feign, maiden.  Thy heart is rejoicing that the enemies of the righteous are escaped."

"You are not wrong there, sir," said Walter.

"I tell thee," said the captain, sternly, "thy joy shall be turned to mourning.  Thou shalt
see thy mother thrown into a dungeon, and thou and thy sisters shall beg your bread, unless--"

Walter could not endure these empty threats, and exclaimed, "You know you have no power to
do this.  Is this what you call manliness to use such threats to a poor girl in your power?
Out upon you!"

"Ha!" said the rebel, considerably surprised at the young lady's manner of replying.  "Is it
thus the malignants breed up their daughters, in insolence as well as deceit?"

The last word made Walter entirely forget his assumed character, and striking at the captain
with all his force, he exclaimed, "Take that, for giving the lie to a gentleman."

"How now?" cried the rebel, seizing his arm.  Walter struggled, the hood fell back.  "'Tis
the boy!  Ha! deceived again!  Here! search the house instantly, every corner.  I will not
be balked a second time."

He rushed out of the room, while Walter, rending off the hood, threw himself into his mother's
arms, exclaiming, "O mother dear, I bore it as long as I could."

"My dear rash boy!" said she.  "But is he safe?  No, do not say where.  Thanks, thanks to heaven.
Now I am ready for anything!" and so indeed her face proved.

"All owing to Rose, mother; she will soon be back again, she--but I'll say no more, for fear.
He left love--duty--Rose left all sorts of greetings, that I will tell you by and by.  Ha!
do you hear them lumbering about the house?  They fancy he is hid there!  Yes, you are welcome--"

"Hush! hush, Walter! the longer they look the more time he will gain," whispered his mother.
"Oh this is joy indeed!"

"Mamma, I found out Walter, and said not one word," interposed Lucy; but there was no more
opportunity for converse permitted, for the captain returned, and ordered the whole party into
the custody of a soldier, who was not to lose sight of any of them till the search was completed.

After putting the whole house in disorder, and seeking in vain through the grounds, the captain
himself, and one of his men, went off to scour the neighbouring country, and examine every
village on the coast.

Lady Woodley and her three younger children were in the meantime locked into her room, while
the soldier left in charge was ordered not to let Walter for a moment out of his sight; and
both she and Walter were warned that they were to be carried the next morning to Chichester,
to answer for having aided and abetted the escape of the notorious traitor, Edmund Woodley.

It was plain that he really meant it, but hope for Edmund made Lady Woodley cheerful about
all she might have to undergo; and even trust that the poor little ones she was obliged to
leave behind, might be safe with Rose and Deborah.  Her great fear was lest the rebels should
search the villages before Edmund had time to escape.

CHAPTER IX.

Cautiously stealing down stairs, Rose first, to spy where the rebels might be, the brother
and sister reached the kitchen, where Rose provided Edmund with a grey cloak, once belonging
to a former serving-man, and after a short search in an old press, brought out various equipments,
saddle, belt, and skirt, with which her mother had once been wont to ride pillion-fashion.
These they carried to the outhouse where Edmund's horse had been hidden; and when all was set
in order by the light of the lantern, Rose thought that her brother looked more like a groom
and less like a cavalier than she had once dared to hope.  They mounted, and on they rode,
across the downs, through narrow lanes, past farm houses, dreading that each yelping dog might
rouse his master to report which way they were gone.  It was not till day had dawned, and the
eastern sky was red with the approaching sun, that they came down the narrow lane that led
to the little town of Bosham, a low flat place, sloping very gradually to the water.  Here
Rose left her brother, advising him to keep close under the hedge, while she softly opened
a little gate, and entered a garden, long and narrow, with carefully cultivated flowers and
vegetables.  At the end was a low cottage; and going up to the door, Rose knocked gently. 
The door was presently cautiously opened by a girl a few years older, very plainly dressed,
as if busy in household work.  She started with surprise, then held out her hand, which Rose
pressed affectionately, as she said, "Dear Anne, will you tell your father that I should be
very glad to speak to him?"

"I will call him," said Anne; "he is just rising.  What is--But I will not delay."

"Oh no, do not, thank you, I cannot tell you now."  Rose was left by Anne Bathurst standing
in a small cleanly-sanded kitchen, with a few wooden chairs neatly ranged, some trenchers and
pewter dishes against the wall, and nothing like decoration except a beau-pot, as Anne would
have called it, filled with flowers.  Here the good doctor and his daughter lived, and tried
to eke out a scanty maintenance by teaching a little school.

After what was really a very short interval, but which seemed to Rose a very long one, Dr.
Bathurst, a thin, spare, middle-aged man, with a small black velvet cap over his grey hair,
came down the creaking rough wooden stairs.  "My dear child," he asked, "in what can I help
you?  Your mother is well, I trust."

"Oh yes, sir!" said Rose; and with reliance and hope, as if she had been speaking to a father,
she explained their distress and perplexity, then stood in silence while the good doctor, a
slow thinker, considered.

"First, to hide him," he said; "he may not be here, for this--the old parson's house--will
be the very first spot they will search.  But we will try.  You rode, you say, Mistress Rose;
where is your horse?"

"Ah! there is one difficulty," said Rose, "Edmund is holding him now; but where shall we leave
him?"

"Let us come first to see the young gentleman," said Dr. Bathurst; and they walked together
to the lane where Edmund was waiting, the doctor explaining by the way that he placed his chief
dependence on Harry Fletcher, a fisherman, thoroughly brave, trustworthy, and loyal, who had
at one time been a sailor, and had seen, and been spoken to by King Charles himself.  He lived
in a little lonely hut about half a mile distant; he was unmarried, and would have been quite
alone, but that he had taken a young nephew, whose father had been killed on the Royalist side,
to live with him, and to be brought up to his fishing business.

Edmund and Rose both agreed that there could be no better hope of escape than in trusting to
this good man; and as no time was to be lost, they parted for the present, Rose returning to
the cottage to spend the day with Anne Bathurst, and the clergyman walking with the young cavalier
to the place where the fisherman lived.  They led the horse with them for some distance, then
tied him to a gate, a little out of sight, and went on to the hut, which stood, built of the
shingle of the beach, just beyond the highest reach of the tide, with the boat beside it, and
the nets spread out to dry.

Before there was time to knock, the door was opened by Harry Fletcher himself, his open sunburnt
face showing honesty and good faith in every feature.  He put his hand respectfully to his
woollen cap, and said, with a sort of smile, as he looked at Edmund, "I see what work you have
for me, your reverence."

"You are right, Harry," said Dr. Bathurst; "this is one of the gentlemen that fought for his
Majesty at Worcester, and if we cannot get him safe out of the country, with heaven's blessing,
he is as good as a dead man."

"Come in, sir," said Fletcher, "you had best not be seen.  There's no one here but little Dick,
and I'll answer for him."

They came in, and Dr. Bathurst explained Edmund's circumstances.  The honest fellow looked
a little perplexed, but after a moment said, "Well, I'll do what in me lies, sir; but 'tis
a long way across."

"I should tell you, my good man," said Edmund, "that I have nothing to repay you with for all
the trouble and danger to which you may be exposing yourself on my behalf.  Nothing but my
horse, which would only be bringing suspicion on you."

"As to that, your honour," replied Harry, "I'd never think of waiting for pay in a matter of
life and death.  I am glad if I can help off a gentleman that has been on the King's side."

So the plan was arranged.  Edmund was to be disguised in the fisherman's clothes, spend the
day at his hut, and at night, if the weather served, Fletcher would row him out to sea, assisted
by the little boy, in hopes of falling in with a French vessel; or, if not, they must pull
across to Havre or Dieppe.  The doctor promised to bring Rose at ten o'clock to meet him on
the beach and bid him farewell.  As to the horse, Fletcher sent the little boy to turn it out
on the neighbouring down, and hide the saddle.

All this arranged, Dr. Bathurst returned to his school; and Rose, dressed in Anne's plainest
clothes, rested on her bed as long as her anxiety would allow her, then came down and helped
in her household work.  It was well that Rose was thus employed, for in the afternoon they
had a great fright.  Two soldiers came knocking violently at the door, exhibiting an order
to search for the escaped prisoner.  Rose recognised two of the party who had been at Forest
Lea; but happily they had not seen enough of her to know her in the coarse blue stuff petticoat
that she now wore.  One of them asked who she was, and Anne readily replied, "Oh, a friend
who is helping me;" after which they paid her no further attention.

Her anxiety for Edmund was of course at its height during this search, and it was not till
the evening that she could gain any intelligence.  Edmund's danger had indeed been great. 
Harry Fletcher saw the rebels coming in time to prepare.  He advised his guest not to remain
in the house, as if he wished to avoid observation, but to come out, as if afraid of nothing.
His cavalier dress had been carefully destroyed or concealed; he wore the fisherman's rough
clothes, and had even sacrificed his long dark hair, covering his head with one of Harry's
red woollen caps.  He was altogether so different in appearance from what he had been yesterday,
that he ventured forward, and leant whistling against the side of the boat, while Harry parleyed
with the soldiers.  Perhaps they suspected Harry a little, for they insisted on searching his
hut, and as they were coming out, one of them began to tell him of the penalties that fishermen
would incur by favouring the escape of the Royalists. Harry did not lose countenance, but went
on hammering at his boat as if he cared not at all, till observing that one of the soldiers
was looking hard at Edmund, he called out, "I say, Ned, what's the use of loitering there,
listening to what's no concern of yours?  Fetch the oar out of yon shed.  I never lit on such
a lazy comrade in my life."

This seemed to turn away all suspicion, the soldiers left them, and no further mischance occurred.
At night, just as the young moon was setting, the boat was brought out, and Harry, with little
Dick and a comrade whom he engaged could be trusted, prepared their oars.  At the same time,
Dr. Bathurst and Rose came silently to meet them along the shingly beach.  Rose hardly knew
her brother in his fisherman's garb.  The time was short, and their hearts were too full for
many words, as that little party stood together in the light of the crescent moon, the sea
sounding with a low constant ripple, spread out in the grey hazy blue distance, and here and
there the crests of the nearer waves swelling up and catching the moonlight.

Edmund and his sister held their hands tightly clasped, loving each other, if possible, better
than ever.  He now and then repeated some loving greeting which she was to bear home; and she
tried to restrain her tears, at the separation she was forced to rejoice in, a parting which
gave no augury of meeting again, the renewal of an exile from which there was no present hope
of return.  Harry looked at Dr. Bathurst to intimate it was time to be gone.

"Amen," answered Edmund and Rose; and they loosened their hold of each other with hearts less
sore.  Then Edmund bared his head, and knelt down, and the good clergyman called down a blessing
from heaven on him; Harry, the faithful man who was going to risk himself for him, did the
same, and received the same blessing.  There were no more words, the boat pushed off, and the
splash of the oars resounded regularly.

Rose's tears came thick, fast, blinding, and she sat down on a block of wood and wept long
and bitterly; then she rose up, and in answer to Dr. Bathurst's cheering words, she said, "Yes,
I do thank GOD with all my heart!"

That night Rose slept at Dr. Bathurst's, and early in the morning was rejoiced by the tidings
which Harry Fletcher sent little Dick to carry to the cottage.  The voyage had been prosperous,
they had fallen in with a French vessel, and Mr. Edmund Woodley had been safely received on board.

She was very anxious to return home; and as it was Saturday, and therefore a holiday at the
school, Dr. Bathurst undertook to go with her and spend the Sunday at Forest Lea.  One of the
farmers of Bosham helped them some little way with his harvest cart, but the rest of the journey
had to be performed on foot.  It was not till noon that they came out upon the high road between
Chichester and Forest Lea; and they had not been upon it more than ten minutes, before the
sound of horses' tread was heard, as if coming from Chichester.  Looking round, they saw a
gentleman riding fast, followed by a soldier also on horseback.  There was something in his
air that Rose recognised, and as he came nearer she perceived it was Sylvester Enderby.  He
was much amazed, when, at the same moment, he perceived it was Mistress Rose Woodley, and stopping
his horse, and taking off his hat, with great respect both towards her and the clergyman, he
hoped all the family were well in health.

"Yes, yes, I believe so, thank you," replied Rose, looking anxiously at him.

"I am on my way to Forest Lea," he said.  "I bring the order my father hoped to obtain from
General Cromwell."

"The Protection!  Oh, thanks! ten thousand thanks!" cried Rose.  "Oh! it may save--But hasten
on, pray hasten on, sir.  The soldiers are already at home; I feared she might be already a
prisoner at Chichester.  Pray go on and restrain them by your authority.  Don't ask me to explain--you
will understand all when you are there."

She prevailed on him to go on, while she, with Dr. Bathurst, more slowly proceeded up the chalky
road which led to the summit of the green hill or down, covered with short grass, which commanded
a view of all the country round, and whence they would turn off upon the down leading to Forest
Lea.  Just as they came to the top, Rose cast an anxious glance in the direction of her home,
and gave a little cry.  Sylvester Enderby and his attendant could be seen speeding down the
green slope of the hill; but at some distance further on, was a little troop of horsemen, coming
from the direction of Forest Lea, the sun now and then flashing on a steel cap or on the point
of a pike.  Fast rode on Sylvester, nearer and nearer came the troop; Rose almost fancied she
could discern on one of the horses something muffled in black that could be no other than her
mother.  How she longed for wings to fly to meet her and cheer her heart with the assurance
of Edmund's safety!  How she longed to be on Sylvester's horse, as she saw the distance between
him and the party fast diminishing!  At length he was close to it, he had mingled with it;
and at the same time Dr. Bathurst and Rose had to mount a slightly rising ground, which for
a time entirely obscured their view.  When at length they had reached the summit of this eminence,
the party were standing still, as if in parley; there was presently a movement, a parting,
Rose clasped her hands in earnestness.  The main body continued their course to Chichester,
a few remained stationary.  How many?  One, two, three--yes, four, or was it five? and among
them the black figure she had watched so anxiously!  "She is safe, she is safe!" cried Rose.
"Oh, GOD has been so very good to us, I wish I could thank Him enough!"

