Years of solitary foresight gave her mind a singular alertness in dealing with such possibilities.
She saw at once that the peril of the situation lay in the minimum of risk it involved. Darrow
had employed no assistant in working out his plans for the competition, and his secluded life
made it almost certain that he had not shown them to any one, and that she and Dick alone knew
them to have been completed. Moreover, it was a part of Dick's duty to examine the contents
of his friend's office, and in doing this nothing would be easier than to possess himself of
the drawings and make use of any part of them that might serve his purpose. He had Darrow's
authority for doing so; and though the act involved a slight breach of professional probity,
might not his friend's wishes be invoked as a secret justification? Mrs. Peyton found herself
almost hating poor Darrow for having been the unconscious instrument of her son's temptation.
But what right had she, after all, to suspect Dick of considering, even for a moment, the act
of which she was so ready to accuse him? His unwillingness to let her see the drawings might
have been the accidental result of lassitude and discouragement. He was tired and troubled,
and she had chosen the wrong moment to make the request. His want of readiness might even be
due to the wish to conceal from her how far his friend had surpassed him. She knew his sensitiveness
on this point, and reproached herself for not having foreseen it. But her own arguments failed
to convince her. Deep beneath her love for her boy and her faith in him there lurked a nameless
doubt. She could hardly now, in looking back, define the impulse upon which she had married
Denis Peyton: she knew only that the deeps of her nature had been loosened, and that she had
been borne forward on their current to the very fate from which her heart recoiled. But if
in one sense her marriage remained a problem, there was another in which her motherhood seemed
to solve it. She had never lost the sense of having snatched her child from some dim peril
which still lurked and hovered; and he became more closely hers with every effort of her vigilant
love. For the act of rescue had not been accomplished once and for all in the moment of immolation:
it had not been by a sudden stroke of heroism, but by ever-renewed and indefatigable effort,
that she had built up for him the miraculous shelter of her love. And now that it stood there,
a hallowed refuge against failure, she could not even set a light in the pane, but must let
him grope his way to it unaided.

V

Mrs. Peyton's midnight musings summed themselves up in the conclusion that the next few hours
would end her uncertainty. She felt the day to be decisive. If Dick offered to show her the
drawings, her fears would be proved groundless; if he avoided the subject, they were justified.

She dressed early in order not to miss him at breakfast; but as she entered the dining-room
the parlour-maid told her that Mr. Peyton had overslept himself, and had rung to have his breakfast
sent upstairs. Was it a pretext to avoid her? She was vexed at her own readiness to see a portent
in the simplest incident; but while she blushed at her doubts she let them govern her. She
left the dining-room door open, determined not to miss him if he came downstairs while she
was at breakfast; then she went back to the drawing-room and sat down at her writing-table,
trying to busy herself with some accounts while she listened for his step. Here too she had
left the door open; but presently even this slight departure from her daily usage seemed a
deviation from the passive attitude she had adopted, and she rose and shut the door. She knew
that she could still hear his step on the stairs--he had his father's quick swinging gait--but
as she sat listening, and vainly trying to write, the closed door seemed to symbolize a refusal
to share in his trial, a hardening of herself against his need of her. What if he should come
down intending to speak, and should be turned from his purpose? Slighter obstacles have deflected
the course of events in those indeterminate moments when the soul floats between two tides.
She sprang up quickly, and as her hand touched the latch she heard his step on the stairs.

When he entered the drawing-room she had regained the writing-table and could lift a composed
face to his. He came in hurriedly, yet with a kind of reluctance beneath his haste: again it
was his father's step. She smiled, but looked away from him as he approached her; she seemed
to be re-living her own past as one re-lives things in the distortion of fever.

"Are you off already?" she asked, glancing at the hat in his hand.

"Yes; I'm late as it is. I overslept myself." He paused and looked vaguely about the room.
"Don't expect me till late--don't wait dinner for me."

She stirred impulsively. "Dick, you're overworking--you'll make yourself ill."

"Nonsense. I'm as fit as ever this morning. Don't be imagining things."

He dropped his habitual kiss on her forehead, and turned to go. On the threshold he paused,
and she felt that something in him sought her and then drew back. "Good-bye," he called to
her as the door closed on him.

She sat down and tried to survey the situation divested of her midnight fears. He had not referred
to her wish to see the drawings: but what did the omission signify? Might he not have forgotten
her request? Was she not forcing the most trivial details to fit in with her apprehensions?
Unfortunately for her own reassurance, she knew that her familiarity with Dick's processes
was based on such minute observation, and that, to such intimacy as theirs, no indications
were trivial. She was as certain as if he had spoken, that when he had left the house that
morning he was weighing the possibility of using Darrow's drawings, of supplementing his own
incomplete design from the fulness of his friend's invention. And with a bitter pang she divined
that he was sorry he had shown her Darrow's letter.

It was impossible to remain face to face with such conjectures, and though she had given up
all her engagements during the few days since Darrow's death, she now took refuge in the thought
of a concert which was to take place at a friend's house that morning. The music-room, when
she entered, was thronged with acquaintances, and she found transient relief in that dispersal
of attention which makes society an anesthetic for some forms of wretchedness. Contact with
the pressure of busy indifferent life often gives remoteness to questions which have clung
as close as the flesh to the bone; and if Mrs. Peyton did not find such complete release, she
at least interposed between herself and her anxiety the obligation to dissemble it. But the
relief was only momentary, and when the first bars of the overture turned from her the smiles
of recognition among which she had tried to lose herself, she felt a deeper sense of isolation.
The music, which at another time would have swept her away on some rich current of emotion,
now seemed to island her in her own thoughts, to create an artificial solitude in which she
found herself more immitigably face to face with her fears. The silence, the recueillement,
about her gave resonance to the inner voices, lucidity to the inner vision, till she seemed
enclosed in a luminous empty horizon against which every possibility took the sharp edge of
accomplished fact. With relentless precision the course of events was unrolled before her:
she saw Dick yielding to his opportunity, snatching victory from dishonour, winning love, happiness
and success in the act by which he lost himself. It was all so simple, so easy, so inevitable,
that she felt the futility of struggling or hoping against it. He would win the competition,
would marry Miss Verney, would press on to achievement through the opening which the first
success had made for him.

As Mrs. Peyton reached this point in her forecast, she found her outward gaze arrested by the
face of the young lady who so dominated her inner vision. Miss Verney, a few rows distant,
sat intent upon the music, in that attitude of poised motion which was her nearest approach
to repose. Her slender brown profile with its breezy hair, her quick eye, and the lips which
seemed to listen as well as speak, all betokened to Mrs. Peyton a nature through which the
obvious energies blew free, a bare open stretch of consciousness without shelter for tenderer
growths. She shivered to think of Dick's frail scruples exposed to those rustling airs. And
then, suddenly, a new thought struck her. What if she might turn this force to her own use,
make it serve, unconsciously to Dick, as the means of his deliverance? Hitherto she had assumed
that her son's worst danger lay in the chance of his confiding his difficulty to Clemence Verney;
and she had, in her own past, a precedent which made her think such a confidence not unlikely.
If he did carry his scruples to the girl, she argued, the latter's imperviousness, her frank
inability to understand them, would have the effect of dispelling them like mist; and he was
acute enough to know this and profit by it. So she had hitherto reasoned; but now the girl's
presence seemed to clarify her perceptions, and she told herself that something in Dick's nature,
something which she herself had put there, would resist this short cut to safety, would make
him take the more tortuous way to his goal rather than gain it through the privacies of the
heart he loved. For she had lifted him thus far above his father, that it would be a disenchantment
to him to find that Clemence Verney did not share his scruples. On this much, his mother now
exultingly felt, she could count in her passive struggle for supremacy. No, he would never,
never tell Clemence Verney--and his one hope, his sure salvation, therefore lay in some one
else's telling her.

The excitement of this discovery had nearly, in mid-concert, swept Mrs. Peyton from her seat
to the girl's side. Fearing to miss the latter in the throng at the entrance, she slipped out
during the last number and, lingering in the farther drawing-room, let the dispersing audience
drift her in Miss Verney's direction. The girl shone sympathetically on her approach, and in
a moment they had detached themselves from the crowd and taken refuge in the perfumed emptiness
of the conservatory.

The girl, whose sensations were always easily set in motion, had at first a good deal to say
of the music, for which she claimed, on her hearer's part, an active show of approval or dissent;
but this dismissed, she turned a melting face on Mrs. Peyton and said with one of her rapid
modulations of tone: "I was so sorry about poor Mr. Darrow."

Mrs. Peyton uttered an assenting sigh. "It was a great grief to us--a great loss to my son."

"Yes--I know. I can imagine what you must have felt. And then it was so unlucky that it should
have happened just now."

Mrs. Peyton shot a reconnoitring glance at her profile. "His dying, you mean, on the eve of
success?"

Miss Verney turned a frank smile upon her. "One ought to feel that, of course--but I'm afraid
I am very selfish where my friends are concerned, and I was thinking of Mr. Peyton's having
to give up his work at such a critical moment." She spoke without a note of deprecation: there
was a pagan freshness in her opportunism.

