Whoever has not experienced the pleasure of taking a young lady to her first game of ball should
seize the first opportunity to do so. Her remarks about plays, her opinions of different players
and the umpire, and the questions she will ask concerning the game, are all too funny to be
missed. She is a violent partisan and at once takes strong sides, and if her favorite team
fails to bat well she characterizes the opposing pitcher as a "horrid creature;" or when the
teams have finished practicing she wants to know, with charming ingenuousness, "which won."
But as she gets deeper into the principles of the game her remarks become less frequent and
her questions more to the point, until her well-timed attempts to applaud good plays and the
anxious look at critical points of the game indicate that she has at last caught the idea.

Unfortunately, some men are not able to intelligibly explain the theory of base-ball, while
others are so engrossed with the game that they do not care to be disturbed. For the benefit
of those ladies whose escorts either cannot, or will not, answer their questions, I will attempt
to set forth as clearly as possible the fundamental principles of the game.

There are always two opposing teams of nine players each, and they play on a field laid out
in the shape of a diamond, as seen in time diagram on the following page.

At each corner of the diamond is a base, and these are known respectively as home base, first
base, second base, and third base. One of the teams takes "the field," that is, each of its
nine players occupies one of the nine fielding positions shown in the diagram, and known as
pitcher, catcher, first base, second base, third base, short stop, left field, centre field,
and right field; the other team goes to "the bat" and tries to make "runs." A run is scored
in this way: One of the nine batting players takes his position at the home base and endeavors
to hit the ball, thrown to him by the opposing pitcher, to some part of the field where it
can neither be caught before touching the ground, nor thrown to first base before the batter
himself can run there; if he can hit it far enough to allow him to reach not only first base,
but second or third or even home, so much the better, for when he has made the complete circuit
of the bases his side is credited with one run. If he cannot make home on his own hit he may
be helped around by the good hits of succeeding batsmen, for each one of the nine takes his
regular turn at the bat. This batting and running goes on until three of the batting side have
been "put out," whereupon the batting side take the field and the other team comes in to take
its turn at bat and make as many runs as possible. When three of a batting side have been "put
out," that side is said to have had its "inning," and each side is entitled to nine innings.

A player is "put out" in various ways, principal among which are the following: If he strikes
three times at the ball and misses it and on the third strike the ball is caught by the catcher;
a ball which passes over the plate between the height of the knee and shoulder and not struck
at, is called a strike just as though it had been struck at and missed. The batsman is also
"out" if the ball which he hits is caught by some fielder before touching the ground; or if,
having touched the ground, it is thrown to time first-baseman before the batter himself can
reach that base. He is out if, at any time after having hit the ball, he is touched with it
in the hands of a fielder, when no part of his person is touching a base.

There are lines drawn from the home base through the first and third- base corners and continued
indefinitely into the field. These are called "foul lines," and any hit ball falling outside
of them counts as nothing at all, unless, of course, it be caught before touching the ground;
in which case it puts the striker "out."

Outside of the nine players on each side there is another important personage, known as "The
Umpire." He is not placed there as a target for the maledictions of disappointed spectators.
He is of flesh and blood, and has feelings just the same as any other human being. He is not
chosen because of his dishonesty or ignorance of the rules of the game, neither is he an ex-horse
thief nor an escaped felon; on the contrary, he has been carefully selected by the President
of the League from among a great number of applicants on account of his supposed integrity
of character and peculiar fitness for the position; indeed, in private life he may even pass
as a gentleman.

His duties are arduous; he must decide all points of play, though taking place on widely separated
portions of the field; he determines whether a ball has been fairly pitched over the home-base,
whether a hit is "fair" or "foul," or whether a player has been put out in accordance with
the rules. In brief, he is expected to see all parts of the field at once and enforce all the
principal and incidental rules of the game. It would not be strange, therefore, if he made
an occasional mistake or failed to decide in a way to suit all.

I have given thus concisely, and with the use of as few technical terms as possible, the first
principles of the game. Many things are purposely left for the novice to learn, because any
attempt to go into detail would prove confusing. For the instruction of those who wish to master
the technical terms generally used, I subjoin some definitions. They are intended for beginners,
and though not in all cases covering the entire ground, will yet convey the idea.

DEFINITIONS.

A batsman, batter, or striker is the player who is taking his turn at bat.

A base-runner is what the batter becomes instantly after having hit a fair ball, though for
convenience of distinction he is often still called a batter until he has reached first base.

A fielder is any one of the nine fielding players.

A coacher is one of the batting players who takes his position within certain prescribed limits
near first or third base to direct base- runners and to urge them along.

A fair hit is, generally speaking, a ball hit by a batsman which falls within the foul lines.

A foul hit is one which falls without the foul lines. A base hit is a fair hit by a batsman
which can neither be caught before touching the ground nor fielded to first base in time to
put out the striker. It may be either a two-base hit, a three-base hit, or a home run, according
as two or three or four bases have been made on the hit without an intervening error.

An error is made when a fielder fails to make a play that he should fairly have been expected
to make.

A fly is a hit caught before touching the ground.

A muff is made when a "fly" or thrown ball, striking fairly in the hands of a fielder, is not
caught.

A grounder is a hit along the ground.

A steal is made when a base-runner gets from one base to another without the assistance of
a base hit or an error.

A wild pitch is a ball thrown by the pitcher out of the fair reach of the catcher, and on which
a base-runner gains a base.

A passed ball is a throw by the pitcher which the catcher should stop but fails, and by his
failure a base-runner gains a base.

For the purpose of distinction, the nine fielders are subdivided into The Battery, The In-field,
and The Out-field. The Battery means the Pitcher and Catcher, the In-field includes the First,
Second, and Third Basemen, and the Short-stop; and the Outfield is composed of the Left, Centre,
and Right Fielders.

As for the theory of the game, remember that there are opposing sides, each of which has nine
turns at the bat, i.e., nine innings, and the object each inning is to score as many runs as
possible. A run is scored every time a player gets entirely around the bases, either by his
own hit alone or by the help of succeeding batters, or by the errors of the opposing fielders,
and the team making the most runs in nine innings is declared the winner. An inning is ended
when three of the batting side have been "put out," and a player may be put out in various
ways, as before enumerated. The umpire is not trying to be unfair, he is doing the best he
can, and instead of abuse he is often deserving of sympathy.

CHAPTER II. TRAINING.

Some one has truthfully said, that ball players, like poets and cooks, are born, not made,
though once born, their development, like that of their fellow-artists, may be greatly aided
by judicious coaching. Of what this training shall consist becomes then a question of much
importance.

The only way to learn base-ball is to play it, and it is a trite saying that the best practice
for a ball player is base-ball itself. Still, there are points outside of the game, such as
the preliminary training, diet, and exercise, an observance of which will be of great advantage
when the regular work is begun. The method and style of play and the points of each position
are given in the subsequent chapters, so that I shall here speak only of those points which
come up off the field and are not included in the game proper.

But first of all, let me say, that no one will ever become an expert ball player who is not
passionately fond of the sport. Base-ball cannot be learned as a trade. It begins with the
sport of the schoolboy, and though it may end in the professional, I am sure there is not a
single one of these who learned the game with the expectation of making it a business. There
have been years in the life of each during which he must have ate and drank and dreamed baseball.
It is not a calculation but an inspiration.

There are many excellent books devoted exclusively to the general subject of training, and
a careful reading of one such may be of much service in teaching the beginner the ordinary
principles of self-care. It will show him how to keep the system in good working order, what
are proper articles of diet, how to reduce weight, or what exercises are best calculated to
develop certain muscles; but for the specific purposes of a ball player such a book is entirely
wanting, for the reason that the "condition" in which he should keep himself, and therefore
the training needful, differ from those for any other athlete. To perform some particular feat
which is to occupy but a comparatively brief space of time, as to run, row, wrestle, or the
like, a man will do better to be thoroughly "fit." But if the period of exertion is to extend
over some length of time, as is the case with the ball player, working for six months at a
stretch, his system will not stand the strain of too much training. Working solely on bone
and muscle day after day, his nervous system will give way. He will grow weak, or as it is
technically known, "go stale." This over-training is a mistake oftenest made by the young and
highly ambitious player, though doubtless many of the instances of "loss of speed" by pitchers
and "off streaks" by older players are really attributable to this cause.

The "condition" in which a ball player should keep himself is such that his stomach and liver
are in good order, his daily habits regular, his muscles free and firm, and his "wind" strong
enough to allow him to run the circuit of the bases without inconvenience. He must not attempt
to keep in what is known as "fine" condition. He should observe good hours, and take at least
eight hours sleep nightly; and he may eat generously of wholesome food, except at noon, when
he should take only a light lunch. There are many players who eat so heartily just before the
game that they are sleepy and dull the entire afternoon. The traveling professional player
needs to pay particular attention to the kind and quality of his food. The sudden changes of
climate, water, and cooking are very trying, and unless he takes great care he will not get
through a season without some trouble. Especially should he avoid under or over ripe fruit,
for it is likely that many of the prevalent cases of cholera morbus are due to indiscretions
in this particular.

If he finds it necessary to take some light stimulant, let it be done with the evening meal.
Never take any liquor at any other time: I do not favor the indiscriminate use of any drink,
but, on the contrary, oppose it as a most harmful practice; I do believe, however, that a glass
of ale, beer, or claret with one's meal is in some cases beneficial. A thin, nervous person,
worn out with the excitement and fatigue of the day, will find it a genuine tonic; it will
soothe and quiet his nerves and send him earlier to bed and asleep. The "beefy" individual,
with plenty of reserve force, needs no stimulant, and should never touch liquor at any time.
If taken at all, it should be solely as a tonic and never as a social beverage.

The force of the above applies with special emphasis to the young professional player. Knowing
so well the numberless temptations by which he is surrounded, I caution him particularly against
indiscriminate drinking. In no profession in life are good habits more essential to success
than in baseball. It is the first thing concerning which the wise manager inquires, and if
the player's record in this respect is found good it is the most hopeful indication of his
future success. Keep away from saloons.

The amount of work necessary to keep a player in the proper form must be determined in each
particular case by the individual himself. If he is inclined to be thin a very little will
be enough, and he should not begin too early in the spring; while if prone to stoutness he
may require a great deal, and should begin earlier. It is scarcely necessary to say that all
exercise should be begun by easy stages. Commencing with walks in the open air and the use
of light pulley weights or clubs or bells, the quantity of exercise may be gradually increased.
Never, however, indulge in heavy work or feats of strength. Such exercise is not good for any
one, but especially is it dangerous for ball players. They do not want strength, but agility
and suppleness; besides, the straining of some small muscle or tendon may incapacitate one
for the entire season, or even permanently. Right here is the objection to turning loose a
party of ball players in a gymnasium, for spring practice. The temptation to try feats of strength
is always present, and more than likely some one will be injured.

The best preliminary practice for a ball player, outside of actual practice at the game, is
to be had in a hand-ball court. The game itself is interesting, and one will work up a perspiration
without noticing the exertion; it loosens the muscles, quickens the eye, hardens the hands,
and teaches the body to act quickly with the mind; it affords every movement of the ball field
except batting, there is little danger from accident, and the amount of exercise can be easily
regulated. Two weeks in a hand-ball court will put a team in better condition to begin a season
than any Southern trip, and in the end be less expensive to the club.

But whatever preliminary work is found advisable or necessary to adopt, the player should be
particular in the following: Having determined the amount of exercise best suited to his temperament,
he should observe regular habits, keep the stomach, liver, and skin healthy, attend carefully
to the quality of food taken, and if he takes any stimulant at all let it be with the evening meal.

CHAPTER III. THE PITCHER.

Of all the players on a base-ball nine, the pitcher is the one to whom attaches the greatest
importance. He is the attacking force of the nine, the positive pole of the battery, the central
figure, around which the others are grouped. From the formation of the first written code of
rules in 1845 down to the present time, this pre-eminence has been maintained, and though the
amendments of succeeding years have caused it to vary from time to time, its relative importance
is more marked to-day than at any preceding period. In a normal development of the game the
improvement in batting would unquestionably have outstripped the pitching, and finally overcome
this superiority; but the removal of certain restrictions upon the pitcher's motions, the legalization
of the underhand throw instead of the old straight-arm pitch, the introduction of "curve" pitching,
and, finally, the unrestricted overhand delivery, have kept the pitching always in the lead.
At several different times, notably in the rules of 1887, an effort has been made to secure
a more even adjustment, but recent changes have undone the work, and the season of 1888 will
see the inequality greater, if anything, than ever.

The qualities of mind and body necessary to constitute a good modern pitcher are rarely combined
in a single individual. First-class pitchers are almost as rare as prima donnas, and out of
the many thousand professional and amateur ball players of the country not more than a dozen
in all are capable of doing the position entire justice.

Speaking first of the physical requirements, I will not discuss the question of size. There
are good pitchers of all sizes, from Madden and Kilroy to Whitney and McCormick, though naturally
a man of average proportions would have some advantages.

The first thing necessary before one can become a star pitcher is the ability to throw a ball
with speed. The rules, which at present govern the pitching, place a premium on brute strength,
and unless one has a fair share of this he will never become a leading pitcher. There are a
few so-called good professional players whose sole conception of the position is to drive the
ball through with all possible speed, while others whose skill and strategy have been proven
by long service, are forced out of the position because they have not sufficient speed for
the modern game.

Next, one must be possessed of more than an ordinary amount of endurance. It is by no means
a simple task to pitch an entire game through and still be as effective in the ninth inning
as in the first; and when, as sometimes happens, the contest is prolonged by an extra number
of innings, the test is severe. This being true of a single game, how much more tiresome it
becomes when continued regularly for an entire season, during the chilly days of the spring
and fall, and under a broiling July sun, can be appreciated only by one who has gone through
it. And what with all day and all night rides from city to city, broken rest and hasty meals,
bad cooking and changes of water and climate, the man is extremely fortunate who finds himself
in condition to play every day when wanted. Only a good constitution, a vigorous digestion,
the most careful habits, and lots of grit, will ever do it.

Besides force and stamina, there are certain mental characteristics necessary. A pitcher must
be possessed of courage and of self-control. He must face the strongest batter with the same
confidence that he would feel against the weakest, for it is only so that he can do himself
entire justice; and he must be able to pitch in the most critical situations with the same
coolness as at any other stage. He must control his own feelings so as not to be disconcerted
by anything that may happen, whether through his own fault, that of a fellow-player, or through
no fault at all. He should remember that all are working for a common end, and that the chances
of victory will be only injured if he allows his attention to be diverted by unavoidable accidents.
And then, too, it is more manly to play one's own game as best one can, no matter what occurs,
than to continually display an ugly temper at the little mishaps sure to occur in every game.

The next point is to acquire a correct position in the "box," and an easy, yet deceptive, style
of delivery. The position is, to a great extent, prescribed by the rules, and so much of it
as is not can be learned by observing the different pitchers. The position which seems most
natural should be chosen. The ball should be held in exactly the same way, no matter what kind
of curve is to be pitched. Being obliged by rule to keep the ball before the body, in sight
of the umpire, any difference in the manlier of holding it will be quickly noticed by a clever
batter, and if for a particular curve it is always held in a certain way, he will be forewarned
of the kind of ball to expect.

Some batters pay no attention to these little indications; but the majority are looking for
them all the time, and once they detect any peculiarities, they will be able to face the pitcher
with much greater confidence. The correct manner of holding the ball for every kind of delivery
is between the thumb and the first and middle fingers, as shown in the accompanying cut of
Clarkson.

It is true there are some curves which may be better acquired by holding the ball differently
in the hand, but this fact is outweighed by the other considerations of which I have just spoken.
Pitcher Shaw might still be a "wizard" had he not neglected this precaution; by noticing his
manner of holding the ball the batter always knew just what was coming; and there are other
pitchers yet in the field who would find their effectiveness greatly increased by a closer
observance of this point.

As for the style of delivery, it should be remembered that the easiest movement is the best.
A long, free sweep of the arm, aided by a swing of the body, will give more speed, be more
deceiving to the batter, and allow of more work than any possible snap or jerky motion. Facing
the striker before pitching, the arm should be swung well back and the body around so as almost
to face second base in the act of delivery; this has an intimidating effect on weak-nerved
batters; besides, not knowing from what point the ball will start, it seems somehow to get
mixed up with the pitcher's arm and body so that it is not possible to get a fair view of it.
It will be understood what motion is meant if there is an opportunity to observe Whitney, Clarkson
or Keefe at work.

Next comes the knowledge of how to throw the different curves. I have yet to see an article
written on this subject which is of the least value in instructing a complete novice. In the
chapter on "Curve Pitching" will be found the theory of the curve, but as for describing intelligibly
the snap of the wrist and arm by which the various twists are imparted to the ball, I am convinced
it cannot be done, and will waste no effort in the attempt. To curve a ball is not a difficult
feat, and a few practical lessons, which any schoolboy can give, will teach the movement. But,
while not attempting myself to tell how this is done, to one already possessed of the knowledge,
I may offer some valuable suggestions.

