Pahom inquired how to get to the place, and as soon as the tradesman had left him, he prepared
to go there himself. He left his wife to look after the homestead, and started on his journey
taking his man with him. They stopped at a town on their way, and bought a case of tea, some
wine, and other presents, as the tradesman had advised. On and on they went until they had
gone more than three hundred miles, and on the seventh day they came to a place where the Bashkirs
had pitched their tents. It was all just as the tradesman had said. The people lived on the
steppes, by a river, in felt-covered tents. They neither tilled the ground, nor ate bread.
Their cattle and horses grazed in herds on the steppe. The colts were tethered behind the tents,
and the mares were driven to them twice a day. The mares were milked, and from the milk kumiss
was made. It was the women who prepared kumiss, and they also made cheese. As far as the men
were concerned, drinking kumiss and tea, eating mutton, and playing on their pipes, was all
they cared about. They were all stout and merry, and all the summer long they never thought
of doing any work. They were quite ignorant, and knew no Russian, but were good-natured enough.

As soon as they saw Pahom, they came out of their tents and gathered round their visitor. An
interpreter was found, and Pahom told them he had come about some land. The Bashkirs seemed
very glad; they took Pahom and led him into one of the best tents, where they made him sit
on some down cushions placed on a carpet, while they sat round him. They gave him tea and kumiss,
and had a sheep killed, and gave him mutton to eat. Pahom took presents out of his cart and
distributed them among the Bashkirs, and divided amongst them the tea. The Bashkirs were delighted.
They talked a great deal among themselves, and then told the interpreter to translate.

"They wish to tell you," said the interpreter, "that they like you, and that it is our custom
to do all we can to please a guest and to repay him for his gifts. You have given us presents,
now tell us which of the things we possess please you best, that we may present them to you."

"What pleases me best here," answered Pahom, "is your land. Our land is crowded, and the soil
is exhausted; but you have plenty of land and it is good land. I never saw the like of it."

The interpreter translated. The Bashkirs talked among themselves for a while. Pahom could not
understand what they were saying, but saw that they were much amused, and that they shouted
and laughed. Then they were silent and looked at Pahom while the interpreter said:

"They wish me to tell you that in return for your presents they will gladly give you as much
land as you want. You have only to point it out with your hand and it is yours."

The Bashkirs talked again for a while and began to dispute. Pahom asked what they were disputing
about, and the interpreter told him that some of them thought they ought to ask their Chief
about the land and not act in his absence, while others thought there was no need to wait for
his return.

VI

While the Bashkirs were disputing, a man in a large fox-fur cap appeared on the scene. They
all became silent and rose to their feet. The interpreter said, "This is our Chief himself."

Pahom immediately fetched the best dressing-gown and five pounds of tea, and offered these
to the Chief. The Chief accepted them, and seated himself in the place of honour. The Bashkirs
at once began telling him something. The Chief listened for a while, then made a sign with
his head for them to be silent, and addressing himself to Pahom, said in Russian:

"Well, let it be so. Choose whatever piece of land you like; we have plenty of it."

"How can I take as much as I like?" thought Pahom. "I must get a deed to make it secure, or
else they may say, 'It is yours,' and afterwards may take it away again."

"Thank you for your kind words," he said aloud. "You have much land, and I only want a little.
But I should like to be sure which bit is mine. Could it not be measured and made over to me?
Life and death are in God's hands. You good people give it to me, but your children might wish
to take it away again."

"You are quite right," said the Chief. "We will make it over to you."

"I heard that a dealer had been here," continued Pahom, "and that you gave him a little land,
too, and signed title-deeds to that effect. I should like to have it done in the same way."

The Chief understood.

"Yes," replied he, "that can be done quite easily. We have a scribe, and we will go to town
with you and have the deed properly sealed."

"And what will be the price?" asked Pahom.

"Our price is always the same: one thousand roubles a day."

Pahom did not understand.

"A day? What measure is that? How many acres would that be?"

"We do not know how to reckon it out," said the Chief. "We sell it by the day. As much as you
can go round on your feet in a day is yours, and the price is one thousand roubles a day."

Pahom was surprised.

"But in a day you can get round a large tract of land," he said.

The Chief laughed.

"It will all be yours!" said he. "But there is one condition: If you don't return on the same
day to the spot whence you started, your money is lost."

"But how am I to mark the way that I have gone?"

"Why, we shall go to any spot you like, and stay there. You must start from that spot and make
your round, taking a spade with you. Wherever you think necessary, make a mark. At every turning,
dig a hole and pile up the turf; then afterwards we will go round with a plough from hole to
hole. You may make as large a circuit as you please, but before the sun sets you must return
to the place you started from. All the land you cover will be yours."

Pahom was delighted. It-was decided to start early next morning. They talked a while, and after
drinking some more kumiss and eating some more mutton, they had tea again, and then the night
came on. They gave Pahom a feather-bed to sleep on, and the Bashkirs dispersed for the night,
promising to assemble the next morning at daybreak and ride out before sunrise to the appointed
spot.

VII

Pahom lay on the feather-bed, but could not sleep. He kept thinking about the land.

"What a large tract I will mark off!" thought he. "I can easily go thirty-five miles in a day.
The days are long now, and within a circuit of thirty-five miles what a lot of land there will
be! I will sell the poorer land, or let it to peasants, but I'll pick out the best and farm
it. I will buy two ox-teams, and hire two more laborers. About a hundred and fifty acres shall
be plough-land, and I will pasture cattle on the rest."

