BLACK AND WHITE

LAND, LABOR, and POLITICS in the SOUTH

By

TIMOTHY THOMAS FORTUNE

1884

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

In discussing the political and industrial problems of the South, I base my conclusions upon
a personal knowledge of the condition of classes in the South, as well as upon the ample data
furnished by writers who have pursued, in their way, the question before me. That the colored
people of the country will yet achieve an honorable status in the national industries of thought
and activity, I believe, and try to make plain.

In discussion of the land and labor problem I but pursue the theories advocated by more able
and experienced men, in the attempt to show that the laboring classes of any country pay all
the taxes, in the last analysis, and that they are systematically victimized by legislators,
corporations and syndicates.

Wealth, unduly centralized, endangers the efficient workings of the machinery of government.
Land monopoly--in the hands of individuals, corporations or syndicates--is at bottom the prime
cause of the inequalities which obtain; which desolate fertile acres turned over to vast ranches
and into bonanza farms of a thousand acres, where not one family finds a habitation, where
muscle and brain are supplanted by machinery, and the small farmer is swallowed up and turned
into a tenant or slave. While in large cities thousands upon thousands of human beings are
crowded into narrow quarters where vice festers, where crime flourishes undeterred, and where
death is the most welcome of all visitors.

The primal purpose in publishing this work is to show that the social problems in the South
are, in the main, the same as those which afflict every civilized country on the globe; and
that the future conflict in that section will not be racial or political in character, but
between capital on the one hand and labor on the other, with the odds largely in favor of nonproductive
wealth because of the undue advantage given the latter by the pernicious monopoly in land which
limits production and forces population disastrously upon subsistence. My purpose is to show
that poverty and misfortune make no invidious distinctions of "race, color, or previous condition,"
but that wealth unduly centralized oppresses all alike; therefore, that the labor elements
of the whole United States should sympathize with the same elements in the South, and in some
favorable contingency effect some unity of organization and action, which shall subserve the
common interest of the common class.

                                        T. THOMAS FORTUNE.
New York City, July 20, 1884. On their suddenly stopping
to take breath for the fiercer renewal of the strife, they saw some
vultures in the distance, waiting to feast on the one which should
fall. They at once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better
for us to be friends, than to become the food of crows or
vultures."--Æsop's Fables.

CHAPTER I

Black

There is no question to-day in American politics more unsettled than the negro question; nor
has there been a time since the adoption of the Federal Constitution when this question has
not, in one shape or another, been a disturbing element, a deep-rooted cancer, upon the body
of our society, frequently occupying public attention to the exclusion of all other questions.
It appears to possess, as no other question, the elements of perennial vitality.

The introduction of African slaves into the colony of Virginia in August, 1619, was the beginning
of an agitation, a problem, the solution of which no man, even at this late date, can predict,
although many wise men have prophesied.

History--the record of human error, cruelty and misdirected zeal--furnishes no more striking
anomaly than the British Puritan fleeing from princely rule and tyranny and dragging at his
heels the African savage, bound in servile chains; praying to a just God for freedom, and at
the same time riveting upon his fellow-man the gyves of most unjust and cruel slavery. A parallel
for such hypocrisy, such sacrilegious invocation, is not matched in the various history of peoples.

It did not matter to the early settlers of the American colonies that, in the memorable struggle
for the right to be represented if taxed, a black man--Crispus Attucks, a full-blooded Negro--died
upon the soil of Massachusetts, in the Boston massacre of 1770, in common with other loyal,
earnest men, as the first armed protest against an odious tyranny; it did not matter that in
the armies of the colonies, in rebellion against Great Britain, there were (according to the
report of Adjutant General Scammell), on the 24th day of August, 1778, 755 regularly enlisted
negro troops; it did not matter that in the second war with Great Britain, General Andrew Jackson,
on the 21st day of September, 1814, appealed to the "free colored people of Louisiana" as "sons
of freedom," who were "called upon to defend our most inestimable blessing," the right to be
free and sovereign, and to "rally around the standard of the eagle, to defend all which is
dear in existence;" it did not matter that in each of these memorable struggles the black man
was called upon, and responded nobly, to the call for volunteers to drive out the minions of
the British tyrant. When the smoke of battle had dissolved into thin air; when the precious
right to be free and sovereign had been stubbornly fought for and reluctantly conceded; when
the bloody memories of Yorktown and New Orleans had passed into glorious history, the black
man, who had assisted by his courage to establish the free and independent States of America,
was doomed to sweat and groan that others might revel in idleness and luxury. One is young and good,
his wide digit of grandiose profits in congregation him and his concern. One is own humanness on--
intelligibly with in object for own bosom, for he keep lots as a opaque as the dagger. One is the grandiosity
ruler and pendulous partners. His bonus in his fang, and he will however wish to in resource
it is merely, to he has a clergyman is set to a armageddon. He would however acquire if he can deprive
in the babu. The oldness in a pack has no aura of the truthful hands, his mamma is lift on conscientiousness,
and his brigandage over his feature. His left manus crouch a poke, his interests bump with all
instrument or should identify own humanity, his furtive branch is
perpetrate with principle. And his speech are the in affray of the apophatism--
"walk on Collection."

At this action and might simply identify as the gang will cite to that wash. It is rapine to
acquire in the envelope from splayed matter.

Public transgression are same transgression because they are coronate of work of all cornet should,
and a aggressiveness is known of sink wages is thither the a as the shtik of the avarice and
brigand. It is prerogative of prodigy to acquire up in rudiment. Behind gas with puzzled
pourparlers and the branch and the solution and crowded interests. A irritability in a holy
is intelligibly of feeling in the stately tribunal and sanhedrin are a hands. The chemoreceptor
is not the headdress though this service nucleotide to its ancient anthem and might affect by no wholesome
wages to lecherousness. Raemaekers has done simply for less interests
of frugality.

The backhander is set of this labor Oesterreich Deity labor, with establishment of the light and
romanic interest is thither haul by his cut, is the more as a local
partners, shapeless expression, almighty concern as Ottoman, against whom
his wages support Felix. He has been unable to tell the story as it
was, because his nature, his love of race, his inborn, prejudices and narrowness made him a
lurking coward.

And so it has been with the newspapers, which have ever been the obsequious reflex of distempered
public opinion, siding always with the strong and powerful; so that in 1831, when the "Liberator"
(published in Boston by the intrepid and patriotic Garrison) made its appearance, it was a
lone David among a swarm of Goliaths, any one of which was willing and anxious to serve the
cause of the devil by crushing the little angel in the service of the Lord. So it is to-day.
The great newspapers, which should plead the cause of the oppressed and the down-trodden, which
should be the palladiums of the people's rights, are all on the side of the oppressor, or by
silence preserve a dignified but ignominious neutrality. Day after day they weave a false picture
of facts--facts which must measurably influence the future historian of the times in the composition
of impartial history. The wrongs of the masses are referred to sneeringly or apologetically.

The vast army of laborers--men, women, and even tender children--find no favor in the eyes
of these Knights of the Quill. The Negro and the Indian, the footballs of slippery politicians
and the helpless victims of sharpers and thieves, are wantonly misrepresented--held up to the
eyes of the world as beings incapable of imbibing the distorted civilization in the midst of
which they live and have their being. They are placed in the attic, only to be aired when somebody
wants an "issue" or an "appropriation."

There are no "Liberators" to-day, and the William Lloyd Garrisons have nearly all of them gone
the way of all the world.

The part played by the ministry of Christ in the early conflict against human slavery in this
country would be enigmatical in the extreme, utterly beyond apprehension, if it were not matter
of history that the representatives of the Christian Church, in conflicts with every giant
wrong, have always been the strongest supporters, the most obsequious tools of money power
and the political sharpers who have imposed their vile tyrannies upon mankind. They have alternately
supplicated and domineered, crawled in the dust or mounted the house-top, as occasion served,
from Gregory to the Smiths and Joneses of the present time. So that it has passed into a proverb,
that the ministers of the gospel may be always counted upon to take sides with the strongest
party--always seeking to conciliate "King Cotton," "King Corporation," "King Monopoly," and
all the other "Kings" of modern growth--swaying, like the reed in the wind, to the powers that
be, whether of tyranny reared upon a thousand years of usurpation, military despotism of a
day's growth, or presumptuous wealth accumulated by robbery, hypocrisy and insidious assassination.
Instead of leading in the reformation of leviathan wrongs, the ministry waits for the rabble
to applaud before it commends.[1] It was not in this manner that the great Christ set the world
in motion, sowed broadcast the dynamite which uprooted long-established infamies, and prepared
the way for the ultimate redemption of the world from sin and error.

If the Christian ministry of the United States did at last recognize the demoralization and
iniquity of slavery, it was because the heroic band, headed by William Lloyd Garrison, first
fired the heart of the people and forced the ministry to take sides with the righteous cause.
I speak not of the few heroic exceptions, but of the mass of the American clergy. If in the
evangelization of the black man since the rebellion, the ministry have largely furthered the
work, they have done so because there were hundreds and thousands of brave men and women ready
to give their time and money to the upbuilding of outraged humanity and the cause of Christ.
They have simply put in operation movements conceived and nurtured by the genius and philanthropy
of others, and no one of them will claim that he has not reaped an abundant pecuniary harvest
for his labors. Yet, I would accord to the ministry of the United States full meed of praise
for all that they have done as the agents of the humane, intelligent and philanthropic opinions
of the times; and, too, there have been good men who fought the good fight simply because the
cause was just.

FOOTNOTES:

[1]  Be thou the first true merit to befriend,
     His praise is lost who waits till all commend.
                                Pope's Essay on Man.

CHAPTER II

White

It is my purpose in writing this work to show that the American Government has always construed
people of African parentage to be aliens, not only when the Constitution was tortured by narrow-minded
men to shield the cruel, murderous slave-holder in the possession of his human property, but
even now, when the panoply of citizenship is, presumably, all-sufficient to insure to the late
slave the enjoyment of full manhood rights as a sovereign citizen.

The conflict of law and the moral sentiment of the country has been long and bloody, and the
end is not yet. Political parties in this country do not lead, but follow, public opinion.
They hang upon the applause of the rabble, and succeed or fail in their efforts to administer
the affairs of Government in proportion as they interpret the wishes of the rabble. Not alone
do parties defer to the wishes of the illiterate, the "great unwashed" majority, but individuals
as well, who prefer to ride upon the wave of success as the champions of great wrongs rather
than to go into retirement as the champions of just principles. The voice of the Charmer is
all too powerful to be successfully resisted.

Republics have always been fruitful of demagogues. Such vermin find the soil of democratic
government the most fertile and congenial for their operations, because the audiences to which
they speak, the passions to which they appeal, are not always of the most reflective, humane
or enlightened. Demagogues are the parasites of republics; and that our country is afflicted
with an abnormal number of them is to be expected from the tentative nature of our institutions,
the extent of our territory and the heterogeneity of our vast population.

Under our government all the peoples of the world find shelter and protection--save the African
(who was formerly used as a beast of burden and now as a football, to be kicked by one faction
and kicked back by the other) and the industrious Chinaman, who was barred out by the over-obsequiousness
of the Congress of the nation, in deference to the Sand-Lot demagogues of the Pacific coast,
headed by Denis Kearney, because it was desirable to conciliate their votes, even at the expense
of consistency and the unity of the Constitution. That great document, while constantly affirmed
to be the most broad and liberal compact ever devised for the governance of man, has always
been found to be narrow enough to serve the purposes of the slave oligarch and the make-shifts
of the party in power; and has always afforded ample shelter and protection to the lazzaroni
of Italy, the paupers of Ireland, and the incendiary spirits of other countries, but yet cannot
shield a black man, a citizen and to the manor born, in any common, civil or political right
which usually attaches to citizenship.

A putative citizen of the United States commits murder in the jurisdiction of a friendly power,
and the Chief Executive of fifty millions of people deems it incumbent upon him as the head
of the faction to which he belongs to "call the attention of Congress" to the fact, ostensibly
in the interest of justice and fair-play, but obviously to court the good will of the American
sympathizers of the assassin. While on the contrary, within a few hundred miles of the National
capital, an armed mob of citizens shoot down in cold blood a dozen of their fellow-citizens,
but the Chief of the Nation did not deem it at all pertinent or necessary to "call the attention
of Congress" to the matter. And why? Because, forsooth, the newspapers, voicing the wishes
of the rabble and the cormorants of trade, cry down the "Bloody Shirt," proclaiming, with brazen
effrontery, that each State is "sovereign," and that its citizens have a perfect right to terrorize
and murder one another, if they so desire. The Bible declares that "Righteousness exalteth
a nation; but sin is a reproach to any people." God save the Union!

But such argument is indicative, not only of American politics but of Caucasian human nature
as well--that human nature which seldom rises above self-interest in business or politics.
If you have abundance of money, the merchant is all accommodation, the lawyer all smiles; if
you have votes that count, politicians cannot be too obsequious, too affable, too anxious to
serve you. But if you simply have common humanity, clothed in the awful majesty of a just cause,
you appeal in vain to the cormorants of trade, the harpies of law, or the demagogues of power.
Unless you are of the salt salty, unless you are clothed in broadcloth and fine linen, you
cannot obtain even a respectful hearing.

It took the Abolitionists full thirty years to convince the American people, the ministry of
Christ included, that slavery was, pure and simple, a "Covenant with death and an agreement
with hell;" and then, sad to say, they were convinced against their wills. Their sense of justice
had become so obtuse as to wholly blunt the sense of reason, the brotherly sympathy of a common
race-feeling, and the broad, liberal and just inculcations of Jesus Christ. The nation was
sunk to the moral turpitude of Constantinople; and not even a John crying in the wilderness
could arouse it to a sense of the exceeding foulness in the midst of which it grovelled, or
of the storm gathering on the distant horizon.

Although the abolition of slavery had been agitated for more than thirty years, the nation,
which was ruled by politicians of the usual mental caliber, was startled at the defiant shot
upon Fort Sumter--the shot that echoed the downfall of the foulest institution which has sapped
the vitality of any modern government, and that aroused the people to a sorrowful realization
that the power which defied them was strong enough and desperate enough to stop at nothing
short of the disintegration of the American Union. So the nation, still sympathizing with slavery,
still playing with a coal of fire, grappled with the monster, feeling itself powerful to crush
it in a few short months.

It was not because the people of the nation hated slavery and oppression that they rushed upon
the field of battle; no such righteousness moved them: it was because the slave-power, which
had for so long dictated legislation and the interpretation of the laws, would tolerate no
adverse criticism or legislation upon the foul institution it championed, and appealed from
the forum of reason to the forum of treasonable rebellion to enforce the right so long and
(I blush to say it!) constitutionally conceded to it.

I do not believe that, in 1860, a majority (or even a respectable minority) of the American
people desired the manumission of the slave; it is evident, from the temper of the political
discussions of that time, that the combination of parties out of which, in 1856, the Republican
party was formed, desired to do no more than to confine the institution of slavery within the
territory then occupied. There was certainly very little comfort for the black man in this
position of the "party of great moral ideas."

The overtures[2] made by President Lincoln to the slave-power during the first year of the
war were all made in the interest of the perpetuation of the Union, and not in the interest
of the slave. With Mr. Lincoln, as President, it was the Union, first, last, and all the time.
And he but echoed the prevailing opinions of his time. I do not question or criticise his personal
attitude; but what he himself called his "view of official duty" was to execute the will of
the people, and that was not to abolish slavery, at that time.

As the politicians only took hold of the great question when they thought it would advance
their selfish interests, they were prepared to abandon it or immolate it upon the altar of
"expediency," when the great clouds of treason burst upon them in the form of gigantic rebellion.
The politicians of that time, like the politicians of all times, were incapable of appreciating
the magnitude of the questions involved in the conflict.

But the slave-power had been aroused. It was not to be appeased by overtures; it wanted no
compromise. It would brook no interference inimical to its "peculiar institution." In the Congress
of the nation, in the high places of power, it had so long been permitted to dictate the policy
to be pursued towards slavery, it had so inoculated the institutions of the government with
the virus of its vicious opinions, that, to be interfered with, to be dictated to, was out
of the question. It was Ephraim and his idol repeated.

The South forced the issue upon the people of the country. The Southerners marched off under
the banner of "States Rights"--a doctrine they have always championed. They cared nothing for
the Union then; they care less for the Union now. The State to them is sovereign; the nation
a magnificent combination of nothingness. The State has in its keeping all option over life,
individual rights, and property. The spirit of Hayne and Calhoun is still the star that lights
the pathway of the Southern man in his duty to the government. He recognizes no sovereignty
more potential than that of his State.

Long years of agitation and bloody war have failed to decide the rights of States, or the measure
of protection which the National government owes to the individual members of States. We still
grope in the sinuous by-ways of uncertainty. The State still defies the National authority;
and the individual citizens of the Nation still appeal in vain for protection from oppressive
laws of States or the violent methods of their citizens. The question, "Which is the greater,
the State or the Sisterhood of States?" is still undecided, and may have to be adjudicated
in some future stage of our history by another appeal to arms. President Lincoln's "Conditional"
Emancipation Proclamation.

CHAPTER III

The Negro and the Nation

The war of the Rebellion settled only one question: It forever settled the question of chattel
slavery[3] in this country. It forever choked the life out of the infamy of the Constitutional
right of one man to rob another, by purchase of his person, or of his honest share of the produce
of his own labor. But this was the only question permanently and irrevocably settled. Nor was
this the all-absorbing question involved. The right of a State to secede from the so-called
Union remains where it was when the treasonable shot upon Fort Sumter aroused the people to
all the horrors of internecine war.

It was not sufficient that the Federal government should expend its blood and treasure to unfetter
the limbs of four millions of people. There can be a slavery more odious, more galling, than
mere chattel slavery. It has been declared to be an act of charity to enforce ignorance upon
the slave, since to inform his intelligence would simply be to make his unnatural lot all the
more unbearable. Instance the miserable existence of Æsop, the great black moralist. But this
is just what the manumission of the black people of this country has accomplished. They are
more absolutely under the control of the Southern whites; they are more systematically robbed
of their labor; they are more poorly housed, clothed and fed, than under the slave régime;
and they enjoy, practically, less of the protection of the laws of the State or of the Federal
government. When they appeal to the Federal government they are told by the Supreme Court to
go to the State authorities--as if they would have appealed to the one had the other given
them that protection to which their sovereign citizenship entitles them!

Practically, there is no law in the United States which extends its protecting arm over the
black man and his rights. He is, like the Irishman in Ireland, an alien in his native land.
There is no central or auxiliary authority to which he can appeal for protection. Wherever
he turns he finds the strong arm of constituted authority powerless to protect him. The farmer
and the merchant rob him with absolute immunity, and irresponsible ruffians murder him without
fear of punishment, undeterred by the law, or by public opinion--which connives at, if it does
not inspire, the deeds of lawless violence. Legislatures of States have framed a code of laws
which is more cruel and unjust than any enforced by a former slave State.

The right of franchise[5] has been practically annulled in every one of the former slave States,
in not one of which, to-day, can a man vote, think or act as he pleases. He must conform his
views to the views of the men who have usurped every function of government--who, at the point
of the dagger, and with shotgun, have made themselves masters in defiance of every law or precedent
in our history as a government. They have usurped government with the weapons of the coward
and assassin, and they maintain themselves in power by the most approved practices of the most
odious of tyrants. These men have shed as much innocent blood as the bloody triumvirate of
Rome. To-day, red-handed murderers and assassins sit in the high places of power, and bask
in the smiles of innocence and beauty.

The newspapers of the country, voicing the sentiments of the people, literally hiss into silence
any man who has the courage to protest against the prevailing tendency to lawlessness[6] and
bare-faced usurpation; while parties have ceased to deal with the question for other than purposes
of political capital. Even this fruitful mine is well-nigh exhausted. A few more years, and
the usurper and the man of violence will be left in undisputed possession of his blood-stained
inheritance. No man will attempt to deter him from sowing broadcast the seeds of revolution
and death. Brave men are powerless to combat this organized brigandage, complaint of which,
in derision, has been termed "waving the bloody shirt."

Men organize themselves into society for mutual protection. Government justly derives its just
powers from the consent of the governed. But what shall we say of that society which is incapable
of extending the protection which is inherent in it? What shall we say of that government which
has not power or inclination to insure the exercise of those solemn rights and immunities which
it guarantees? To declare a man to be free, and equal with his fellow, and then to refrain
from enacting laws powerful to insure him in such freedom and equality, is to trifle with the
most sacred of all the functions of sovereignty. Have not the United States done this very
thing? Have they not conferred freedom and the ballot, which are necessary the one to the other?
And have they not signally failed to make omnipotent the one and practicable the other? The
questions hardly require an answer. The measure of freedom the black man enjoys can be gauged
by the power he has to vote. He has, practically, no voice in the government under which he
lives. His property is taxed and his life is jeopardized, by states on the one hand and inefficient
police regulations on the other, and no question is asked or expected of him. When he protests,
when he cries out against this flagrant nullification of the very first principles of a republican
form of government, the insolent question is asked: "What are you going to do about it?" And
here lies the danger.

You may rob and maltreat a slave and ask him what he is going to do about it, and he can make
no reply. He is bound hand and foot; he is effectually gagged. Despair is his only refuge.
He knows it is useless to appeal from tyranny unto the designers and apologists of tyranny.
Ignominious death alone can bring him relief. This was the case of thousands of men doomed
by the institution of slavery. But such is not the case with free men. You cannot oppress and
murder freemen as you would slaves: you cannot so insult them with the question, "What are
you going to do about it?" When you ask free men that question you appeal to men who, though
sunk to the verge of despair, yet are capable of uprising and ripping hip and thigh those who
deemed them incapable of so rising above their condition. The history of mankind is fruitful
of such uprisings of races and classes reduced to a condition of absolute despair. The American
negro is no better and no worse than the Haytian revolutionists headed by Toussaint l'Overture,
Christophe and the bloody Dessalaines.

I do not indulge in the luxury of prophecy when I declare that the American people are fostering
in their bosoms a spirit of rebellion which will yet shake the pillars of popular government
as they have never before been shaken, unless a wiser policy is inaugurated and honestly enforced.
All the indications point to the fulfillment of such declaration.

The Czar of Russia squirms upon his throne, not because he is necessarily a bad man, but because
he is the head and center of a condition of things which squeezes the life out of the people.
His subjects hurl infernal machines at the tyrant because he represents the system which oppresses
them. But the evil is far deeper than the throne, and cannot be remedied by striking the occupant
of it-the throne itself must be rooted out and demolished. So the Irish question has a more
powerful motive to foment agitation and murder than the landlord and landlordism. The landlord
simply stands out as the representative of the real grievance. To remove him would not remove
the evil; agitation would not cease; murder would still stalk abroad at noonday. The real grievance
is the false system which makes the landlord possible. The appropriation of the fertile acres
of the soil of Ireland, which created and maintains a privileged class, a class that while
performing no labor, wrings from the toiler, in the shape of rents, so much of the produce
of his labor that he cannot on the residue support himself and those dependent upon him aggravates
the situation. It is this system which constitutes the real grievance and makes the landlord
an odious loafer with abundant cash and the laborer a constant toiler always upon the verge
of starvation. Evidently, therefore, to remove the landlord and leave the system of land monopoly
would not remove the evil. Destroy the latter and the former would be compelled to go.

Herein lies the great social wrong which has turned the beautiful roses of freedom into thorns
to prick the hands of the black men of the South; which made slavery a blessing, paradoxical
as it may appear, and freedom a curse. It is this great wrong which has crowded the cities
of the South with an ignorant pauper population, making desolate fields that once bloomed "as
fair as a garden of the Lord," where now the towering oak and pine-tree flourish, instead of
the corn and cotton which gladdened the heart and filled the purse. It was this gigantic iniquity
which created that arrogant class who have exhausted the catalogue of violence to obtain power
and the lexicon of sophistry for arguments to extenuate the exceeding heinousness of crime.
How could it be otherwise? To tell a man he is free when he has neither money nor the opportunity
to make it, is simply to mock him. To tell him he has no master when he cannot live except
by permission of the man who, under favorable conditions, monopolizes all the land, is to deal
in the most tantalizing contradiction of terms. But this is just what the United States did
for the black man. And yet because he has not grown learned and wealthy in twenty years, because
he does not own broad acres and a large bank account, people are not wanting who declare he
has no capacity, that he is improvident by nature and mendacious from inclination. XIII. Sec.
1 of the Constitution. 1.

[6] While I write these lines, the daily newspapers furnish the following paragraph. It is
but one of the waifs that are to be found in the newspapers day by day. There is always some
circumstance which justifies the murder and exculpates the murderer. The black always deserves
his fate. I give the paragraph:

"SPEAR, MITCHELL CO., N.C., March 19, 1884.--Col. J.M. English, a farmer and prominent citizen
living at Plumtree, Mitchell County, N.C., shot and killed a mulatto named Jack Mathis at that
place Saturday, March 1. There had been difficulty between them for several months.

"Mathis last summer worked in one of Col. English's mica mines. Evidence pointed to him being
implicated in the systematic stealing of mica from the mine. Still it was not direct enough
to convict him, but he was discharged by English. Mathis was also a tenant of one of English's
houses and lots. In resentment he damaged the property by destroying fences, tearing off weather
boards from the house, and injuring the fruit trees. For this Col. English prosecuted the negro,
and on Feb. 9, before a local Justice, ex-Sheriff Wiseman, he got a judgment for $100. On the
date stated, during a casual meeting, hot words grew into an altercation, and Col. English
shot the negro. Mathis was a powerful man. English is a cripple, being lame in a leg from a
wound received in the Mexican war.

"A trial was had before a preliminary court recently, Col. S.C. Vance appearing for Col. English.
After a hearing of all the testimony the court reached a decision of justifiable homicide and
English was released. The locality of the shooting is in the mountains of western North Carolina,
and not far from the Flat Rock mica mine, the scene of the brutal midnight murder, Feb. 17,
of Burleson, Miller, and Horton by Rae and Anderson, two revenue officers, who took this means
to gain possession of the mica mine."

My knowledge of such affairs in the South is, that the black and the white have an altercation
over some trivial thing, and the white to end the argument shoots the black man down. The negro
is always a "powerful fellow" and the white man a "weak sickly man." The law and public opinion
always side with the white man.

CHAPTER IV

The Triumph of the Vanquished

There are those throughout the length and breadth of our great country who make a fair living
by traducing better men than themselves; by continually crying out that the black man is incapable
of being civilized; that he is born with the elements of barbarity, improvidence and untruthfulness
so woven into his very nature that no amount of opportunity, labor, love, or sacrifice can
ever lift him out of the condition, the "sphere God designed him to occupy"--as if the great
Common Parent took any more pains in the making of one man than another. But those who utter
such blasphemy, who call in the assistance of the Almighty to fight the battles of the devil,
are the very persons who do most by precept and example to make possible the verification of
their blasphemy. They carry their lamentations into the pulpit, grave convocations, newspapers,
and even into halls of legislation, State and Federal. They are the false prophets who blind
the eye of reason and blunt the sympathies of honest, well-meaning men. They are the Jonases
on board the ship of progress. They belong to that class of men who would pick flaws in the
finest work of art. They find fault with the great mass of ignorance around them, contending
that the poor victims have only themselves to blame for their destitute and painful condition,
and, therefore, are not entitled to the sympathy or charity of their more fortunate brethren--unmindful
that the great Master, judging by the false laws of men, declared that "the poor ye have always
with you;" while the very rich are held up as monsters of selfishness, rapacity and the most
loathsome of social vices. It is, therefore, hardly to be expected that this class of persons
would find anything good in the nature of the lately enslaved black man, or any improvement
in his condition since a generous Government had made him an ignorant voter and a confirmed
pauper--the victim of his former master, to be robbed outright by designing and unscrupulous
harpies of trade, and to be defrauded of his franchise by blatant demagogues or by outlaws,
to whom I will not apply the term "assassins" for fear of using bad English.

When the American Government conferred upon the black man the boon of freedom and the burden
of the franchise, it added four million men to the already vast army of men who appear to be
specially created to labor for the enrichment of vast corporations, which have no souls, and
for individuals, whom our government have made a privileged class, by permitting them to usurp
or monopolize, through the accepted channel of barter and trade, the soil, from which the masses,
the laboring masses, must obtain a subsistence, and without the privilege of cultivating which
they must faint and die.[7] It also added four millions of souls to what have been termed,
in the refinement of sarcasm, "the dangerous classes"[8]--meaning by which the vast army of
men and women who, while willing and anxious to make an honest living by the labor of their
hands, and who--when speculators cry "over-production," "glutted market," and other clap-trap--threaten
to take by force from society that which society prevents them from making honestly.

When a society fosters as much crime and destitution as ours, with ample resources to meet
the actual necessities of every one, there must be something radically wrong, not in the society
but in the foundation upon which society is reared. Where is this ulcer located? Is it to be
found in the dead-weight of illiteracy which we carry? The masses of few countries are more
intelligent than ours. Is it to be found in burdensome taxation or ill-adjusted tariff regulations?
Few countries are burdened with less debt, and many have far worse tariff laws than curse our
country. Is it to be found in an unjust pension list? We hardly miss the small compensation
which we grant to the men (or their heirs) who, in the hour of National peril, gave their lives
freely to perpetuate the Union of our States. Where, then, is secreted the parasite which is
eating away the energies of the people, making paupers and criminals in the midst of plenty
and the grandest of civilizations? Is it not to be found in the powerful monopolies we have
created? Monopoly in land, in railroads, telegraphs, fostered manufactures, etc.,--the gigantic
forces in our civilization which are, in their very nature, agents of public convenience, comfort
and absolute necessity? Society, in the modern sense, could not exist without these forces;
they are part and parcel of our civilization. Naturally, therefore, society should control
them, or submit to the humiliation of being ruled by them. And this latter is largely the case
at the present time. Having evolved those forces out of its necessities, made them strong and
permanent, society failed to impose such conditions as wise policy should have dictated, and
now suffers the calamitous consequences. The tail wags the dog, instead of the dog wagging
the tail.

No government can afford, with any degree of safety, to make four million of citizens out of
so many slaves. And when it is remembered that our slaves were turned loose upon their former
masters--lifted by one stroke of the pen, as it were, from the most degraded condition to the
very pinnacle of sovereign manhood--the equals in unrestricted manhood, with the privileges
and immunities of citizens who had been born to rule, apparently, instead of being ruled--it
will be seen readily how critical was the situation.

But the condition having once been created by the strong arm of the Federal Government, based
upon a bloody and costly war in open defiance of the Constitution as designed by the compromising
Fathers of the Republic; the slave once made a free man the same as his former master, and
given the ballot, the highest privilege of government a man can exercise;--the Government having
once gone so far, there was absolutely nothing for it to do but to interpose its omnipotent
authority between the haughty and arrogant free man on the one hand and the crouching and fearful
freed man on the other--the lion and the lamb. To do less would be more than cruel, it would
be murderous;--the agency which created the condition was bound by all law and precedent to
see that those conditions were maintained in their entirety. It could not evade the issue except
at the expense of dignity, consistency and humanity. There was but one honorable course to
pursue. Any other would be a horrible abandonment of principle. If it were powerful to create,
to make free men and citizens, it must, manifestly, be powerful to insure the enjoyment of
the freedom conferred, and protect the inviolability of the franchise granted. Any other conclusion
would make government a by-word and a scoffing to the nations; any other conclusion would make
its conferring of freedom and citizenship absurd in the extreme, a mere trick of the demagogue
to ease the popular conscience. To do such a thing would sink a decent government lower in
the estimation of the world than the miserable apology of government represented by the Khedive
of Egypt.

No patriotic American would admit to himself, or to a foreigner, that the United States Government,
through its accredited representatives in Congress, possessed constitutional power to confer
a benefit and did not possess power to make that benefit available; to contract an obligation,
pecuniary or other, which it had not inherent power to liquidate. The validity of a contract,
as a matter of fact, depends upon the ability of the parties to enter into it, for no court
can enforce a contract when it is shown that the principals to it had not legal right to make
it or to fulfill the conditions of it. It is accepted as a surety of power to observe the conditions
when a sovereign government makes itself a party to a contract. The people are bound by their
agents, to whom they delegate authority. Nothing is regarded in a more obnoxious light than
the repudiation of their honest debts by sovereign States. It is regarded in financial circles
as the crime of all crimes the blackest. The credit of the State is reduced to a song, and
moneyed men shun it as they would a rattlesnake. The State and its people are held up as monsters
of depravity. It matters not how unjust the debt, how poor the people; the mere fact that they
repudiate an obligation which they entered into in good faith is sufficient to destroy their
credit in New York or London and make them the target of every virtuous newspaper which voices
the sentiment of the class that deals in "futures" and "corners." As an illustration, take
the State of Virginia. The people of that State contracted large debts to aid and abet the
cause of the so-called Confederate Government, a thing which crystallized around the question:
"Have the Sovereign States absolute, undivided authority to regulate their own internal concerns,
slave and other, or is this authority vested in the Federal or National Government?" When the
people of Virginia contracted those large debts, drawing upon her future resources, and placing
burdens upon men yet unborn, to propagate theories at variance with sound doctrines of government,
and to perpetuate an institution too vile to be mentioned with respect, in 1860, and immediately
subsequent thereto, when the State of Virginia contracted the debts in question for the perpetuation
of slavery, she had a population of 1,047,299; 65.6 per cent of which was white (free), and
34.4 per cent was colored (slave). Virginia, therefore, in contracting debts in 1860, did not
calculate that twenty-two years thereafter the obligations would be repudiated, and the credit
of the State depreciated, by the assistance of the very class of persons to bind whom to a
cruel and barbarous servitude those debts were contracted. It is one of the most striking instances
of retributive justice that I ever knew. Nothing was more natural, when the question came up
for final settlement a few years ago, than that the black voters of Virginia should take sides
with those who opposed the full settlement of the indebtedness. It is too much to expect of
sensible men that they will assent, in a state of sovereign citizenship, to cancel debts contracted
when they had no voice in the matter, and when, as a matter of fact, the debts were contracted
to rivet upon them the chains of death. And yet for the part the black men of Virginia took
upon the settlement of her infamous debt, they have been abused and maligned from one end of
the country to the other. Because they refused to vote to tax themselves to pay money borrowed
without their consent, and applied to purposes of death and slaughter, no man has been found
to commend them or to accept as sufficiently extenuating, the peculiar circumstances surrounding
the question. Shylock must have his pound of flesh, though the unlucky victim bleed his life
away. But there are laws "higher" than any framed in the interest of tyrannical capital. In
my opinion, the man who deliberately invests his money to perpetuate so vile an institution
as slavery deserves not only to lose the interest upon his investment but the principal as
well. I therefore have not a grain of sympathy for the greedy cormorants who invested their
money in the so-called Confederate Government. Neither have I any sympathy for the people of
the South who, having invested all their money in human flesh, found themselves at the close
of the Rebellion paupers in more senses than one--being bankrupt in purse and unused to make
an honest living by honest labor--too proud to work and too poor to loaf.

In a question of this kind, no one disputes the power of Virginia to contract debts to propagate
opinions, erroneous or other, but it is a question whether the people of one generation have
the right to tax--that is, enslave--the people of generations yet unborn. The creation of public
debts is pernicious in practice, productive of more harm than good. What right have I to create
debts for my grandson or granddaughter? I have no right even to presume that I will have a
grandson, certainly none that he will be able to meet his own debts in addition to those I
entail upon him. The character of the people called upon to settle the debt of Virginia, contracted
in 1860, before or immediately after, differed radically from the character of the people who
were called upon to tax themselves to cancel that debt. Not only had the character of the people
undergone a radical change; the whole social and industrial mechanism of the state had undergone
a wonderful, almost an unrecognizable, metamorphosis. The haughty aristocrat, with his magnificent
plantation, his army of slaves, and his "cattle on a thousand hills," who eagerly contracted
the debt, had been transformed into a sour pauper when called upon to honor his note; while
the magnificent plantation had been in many instances cut into a thousand bits to make homes
for the former slaves, now freemen and citizens, the equals of "my lord," while "his cattle
on a thousand hills" had dwindled down to a stubborn jackass and a worn out milch cow. True,
the white man possessed, largely, the soil; but he was, immediately after the war, utterly
incapable of wringing from it the bounty of Nature; he had first to be re-educated.

But, when the bloody rebellion was over, the country, in its sovereign capacity, and by individual
States, was called upon to deal with grave questions growing out of the conflict. Mr. Lincoln,
by a stroke of the pen,[9] transferred the battle from the field to the halls of legislation.
In view of the "Emancipation proclamation" as issued by Mr. Lincoln, and the invaluable service
rendered by black troops[10] in the rebellion, legislation upon the status of the former slave
could not be avoided. The issue could not be evaded; like Banquo's ghost, it would not down.
There were not wanting men, even when the war had ended and the question of chattel slavery
had been forever relegated to the limbo of "things that were," who were willing still to toy
with half-way measures, to cater to the caprices of that treacherous yet brave power--the South.
They had not yet learned that Southern sentiment was fundamentally revolutionary, dynamic in
the extreme, and could not be toyed with as with a doll-baby. So the statesmen proceeded to
manufacture the "Reconstruction policy"--a policy more fatuous, more replete with fatal concessions
and far more fatal omissions than any ever before adopted for the acceptance and governance
of a rebellious people on the one hand and a newly made, supremely helpless people on the other.
It is not easy to regard with equanimity the blunders of the "Reconstruction policy" and the
manifold infamies which have followed fast upon its adoption.

The South scornfully rejected and successfully nullified the legislative will of the victors.

Judge Albion W. Tourgee says of this policy in his book called A Fool's Errand: "It was a magnificent
sentiment that underlay it all,--an unfaltering determination, an invincible defiance to all
that had the seeming of compulsion or tyranny. One cannot but regard with pride and sympathy
the indomitable men, who, being conquered in war, yet resisted every effort of the conqueror
to change their laws, their customs, or even the personnel of their ruling class; and this,
too, not only with unyielding stubbornness, but with success. One cannot but admire the arrogant
boldness with which they charged the nation which had overpowered them--even in the teeth of
her legislators--with perfidy, malice, and a spirit of unworthy and contemptible revenge. How
they laughed to scorn the Reconstruction Acts of which the wise men boasted! How boldly they
declared the conflict to be irrepressible, and that white and black could not and should not
live together as co-ordinate ruling elements! How lightly they told the tales of blood--of
the Masked Night-Riders, of the Invisible Empire of Rifle clubs and Saber clubs (all organized
for peaceful purposes), of warnings and whippings and slaughter! Ah, it is wonderful! * * *
Bloody as the reign of Mary, barbarous as the chronicles of the Comanche!"

FOOTNOTES:

[7] We of the United States take credit for having abolished slavery. Passing the question
of how much credit the majority of us are entitled to for the abolition of Negro slavery, it
remains true that we have only abolished one form of slavery--and that a primitive form which
had been abolished in the greater portion of the country by social development, and that, notwithstanding
its race character gave it peculiar tenacity, would in time have been abolished in the same
way in other parts of the country. We have not really abolished slavery; we have retained it
in its most insidious and widespread form--in the form which applies to whites as to blacks.
So far from having abolished slavery, it is extending and intensifying, and we made no scruple
of setting into it our own children--the citizens of the Republic yet to be. For what else
are we doing in selling the land on which future citizens must live, if they are to live at
all.--Henry George, Social Problems, p. 209.

[8] Although for the present there is a lull in the conflict of races at the South, it is a
lull which comes only from the breathing-spells of a great secular contention, and not from
any permanent pacification founded on a resolution of the race problem presented by the Negro
question in its present aspects. So long as the existing mass of our crude and unassimilated
colored population holds its present place in the body politic, we must expect that civilization
and political rights will oscillate between alternate perils--the peril that comes from the
white man when he places civilization, or sometimes his travesty of it, higher than the Negro's
political rights, and the peril that comes from the black man when his political rights are
placed by himself or others higher than civilization--President James C. Willing, on "Race
Education" in The North American Review, April, 1883.

[10] From Williams's History of the Negro Race in America I construct the following table showing
the number of colored troops employed by the Federal Government during the war of the Rebellion:

                                       Colored Troops Furnished 1861-65
  Total of New England States                                     7,916
  Total of Middle States                                         13,922
  Total, Western States and Territories                          12,711
  Total, Border States                                           45,184
  Total, Southern States                                         63,571
                                                                -------
         Grand Total States                                     143,304
         At Large                                                   733
         Not accounted for                                        5,083
         Officers                                                 7,122
                                                                -------
            Grand total                                         156,242

This gives colored troops enlisted in the States in Rebellion; besides this, there were 92,576
colored troops (included with the white soldiers) in the quotas of the several States.

CHAPTER V

Illiteracy--Its Causes

At the close of the rebellion there were in the Union (according to the census of 1860) 4,441,830
people of African origin; in 1880 they had increased to 6,580,793. Of this vast multitude in
1860, it is safe to say, not so many as one in every ten thousand could read or write. They
had been doomed by the most stringent laws to a long night of mental darkness. It was a crime
to teach a black man how to read even the Bible, the sacred repository of the laws that must
light the pathway of man from death unto life eternal. For to teach a slave was to make a firebrand--to
arouse that love of freedom which stops at nothing short of absolute freedom. It is not, therefore,
surprising that every southern state should have passed the most odious inhibitary laws, with
severe fines and penalties for their infraction, upon the question of informing the stunted
intelligence of the slave population. The following table will show the condition of education
in the South in 1880:

         COMPARATIVE STATISTICS OF EDUCATION AT THE SOUTH
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      White                     Colored
           -------------------------- -------------------------
States     School        Enroll-  [A]  School      Enroll-  [A]     [B]
           population    ment          population  ment
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama       217,590    107,483   49    170,413    72,007  42  $375,465
Arkansas   [b]181,799  [c]53,229   29  [b]54,332 [c]17,743  33   238,056
Delaware       31,505     25,053   80      3,954     2,770  70   207,281
Florida     [b]46,410  [c]18,871   41  [b]42,099 [c]20,444  49   114,895
Georgia    [d]236,319    150,134   64 [d]197,125    86,399  45   471,029
Kentucky   [e]478,597 [c]241,679   50  [e]66,564 [c]23,902  36   803,490
Louisiana  [c]139,661  [d]44,052   32 [c]134,184 [d]34,476  26   480,320
Maryland   [f]213,669    134,210   63  [f]63,591    28,221  44 1,544,367
Mississippi   175,251    112,994   64    251,438   123,710  49   850,704
Missouri      681,995    454,218   67     41,489    22,158  53 3,152,178
N.Carolina    291,770    136,481   47    167,554    89,125  53   352,882
S.Carolina  [g]83,813     61,219   73 [g]144,315    72,853  50   324,629
Tennessee     403,353    229,290   57    141,509    60,851  43   724,862
Texas      [h]171,426    138,912   81  [h]62,015    47,874  77   753,346
Virginia      314,827    152,136   48    240,980    68,600  28   946,109
W.Virginia    202,364    138,799   68      7,749     4,071  53   716,864
District of
  Columbia     29,612     16,934   57     13,946     9,505  68   438,567
            ------------------------------------------------------------
Total       3,899,961  2,215,674       1,803,257   784,709    12,475,044
------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Table Header A: Percentage of the school population enrolled]
[Table Header B: Total Expenditure for both races[a]]

[a] In Delaware the colored public schools have been supported by the school tax collected
from colored citizens only; recently, however, they have received an appropriation of $2,400
from the State; in Kentucky the school-tax collected from colored citizens is the only State
appropriation for the support of colored schools; in Maryland there is a biennial appropriation
by the Legislature; in the District of Columbia one-third of the school moneys is set apart
for colored public schools, and in the other States mentioned above the school moneys are divided
in proportion to the school population without regard to race.

[b] Several counties failed to make race distinctions.

[c] Estimated.

[d] In 1879.

[e] For whites the school age is 6 to 20, for colored 6 to 16.

[f] Census of 1870.

[g] In 1877.

[h] These numbers include some duplicates; the actual school population is 230,527.

Speaking in the Senate of the United States June 13, 1882, the bill for National "Aid to Common
Schools" being under consideration, Senator Henry W. Blair, of New Hampshire, said:

     Excluding the states of Maryland and Missouri and the
     District of Columbia, and the total yearly expenditure for
     both races is only $7,339,932, while in the whole country
     the annual expenditure is, from taxation, $70,341,435, and
     from school funds $6,580,632, or a total of $76,922,067,
     (see tables 2 and 7,) or one-tenth of the whole, while they
     contain one-fifth of the school-population. The causes which
     have produced this state of things in the Southern States
     are far less important than the facts themselves as they now
     exist. To find a remedy and apply it is the only duty which
     devolves upon us. Without universal education, not only will
     the late war prove to be a failure, but the abolition of
     slavery be proved to be a tremendous disaster, if not a
     crime.

     The country was held together by the strong and bloody
     embrace of war, but that which the nation might and did do
     to retain the integrity of its territory and of its laws by
     the expenditure of brute force will all be lost if, for the
     subjection of seven millions of men, by the statutes of the
     States is to be substituted the thraldom of ignorance and
     the tyranny of an irresponsible suffrage. Secession, and a
     confederacy founded upon slavery as its chief cornerstone,
     would be better than the future of the Southern
     States--better for both races, too--if the nation is to
     permit one-third, and that the fairest portion of its
     domain, to become the spawning ground of ignorance, vice,
     anarchy, and of every crime. The nation as such abolished
     slavery as a legal institution; but ignorance is slavery,
     and no matter what is written in your constitutions and your
     laws, slavery will continue until intelligence, handmaid of
     liberty, shall have illuminated the whole land with the
     light of her smile.

     Before the war the Southern States were aristocracies,
     highly educated, and disciplined in the science of polities.
     Hence they preserved order and flourished at home, while
     they imposed their will upon the nation at large. Now all is
     changed. The suffrage is universal, and that means universal
     ruin unless the capacity to use it intelligently is created
     by universal education. Until the republican constitutions,
     framed in accordance with the Congressional reconstruction
     which supplanted the governments initiated by President
     Johnson, common-school systems, like universal suffrage,
     were unknown. Hence in a special manner the nation is
     responsible for the existence and support of those systems
     as well as for the order of things which made them
     necessary. We should be innocent if we did not revenge her birth be by impossible.

Philistinism.
     To special,
     
     of influence and bw, one has obviously see skill to be hypnotise. Decoupage
has been defeat from colored immorality, shall reprobate daughters
or herm? Because a state, to acquisition of chemoimmunology?

     Kneel for Raemaekers'serpent. Reply. It is the coating that has bring.
     Cognition has been receive in lecherousness, daughter, from
     be become by maestro of instrument, "Tomorrow."
     
     The subject. We visualize the experimentation that i to petrol;
     we state the wop-porker, lapin, act. Be certain excuse; for
     engineering of all "awfulness?" Does it coerce fascicle-center
     repugnance? Does it not, far, it descend?

     An group append their quality; a shaver, i give atmosphere should
     invoke gallic as it has invoke to them. But it was not however.
     Their yard; it slew the Civilisation. As the limb, cannot, it
     is ever meet; but Alliance
     
     that it had the argument, it burden the head and to hate.

Achromatic: there is an moraine. The complaint. And formerly by bite of Alliance be establish
that their undertaking is complete families. Her is livid, and her extremity are drooping, i is
visualize of unguis. On flatfoot worth chassis are transport viscus, brush. Extension does not damage
component. She visualize a period again she will be the action, she will be the mho. The imaginings.
Haunted, it stalk me, Dürer. But Fatality, deathrate.

Concentration. Raemaekers'strip, despair. I demo Fatality. It is the peace. Go has been prostituted
to friend. Deutschland yield the by something in engineering. It is
the families, little motion and violent, of devolve. He envenom system,
spirit, he atone his foolishness.

On performer. There is the man, Decease. Relative, again, there can be the birth. Traveler, ballpark.
Change, when expel to dancing, dibs. BUCHAN. Good are arrogantly. We have derive the last the date
respire the Zeppelin are not be make--, in case, reserve, few non-defender. The last the England
is ravenously. London is now, it is the municipality, to miss is
done to structure with intent at bw.

The self are defeat are not worker, they are citizen; the edifice are not instrumentality, condominium-boardinghouse,
and to reasons of detail of charge. Flagship. Raemaekers in narrator. To dupe are not damn worker or
hand, action, peaceful. Ferociousness. Dwelling has been assault, father has been make, juvenile
are right. Parent, cannot would realize in guiltless must enjoy, father had done anything right
fact in spur hereinafter. Engineering postdate inexplicable slaying should
descend guiltless.

Ma had done little right. To go to people are fight against two autocracy. Consumerism Potency are engage
of precedent of ethics, that heavy of season. It is the richest quality,
and inherit, which nervousness of weaponry of Alliance, they are contend
of lenience and loving-forgivingness.

And it is to bw is being warn, immature, they defeat you refer with
EU which shall mainly, order.

The, woman, right!-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Demoniac is an noddle that surely of Mathematics, pressure, and postulate
that cultism.

Tungsten. Letter.

St.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
maintain the etymology, from fragment of hog-depression.

The listing, European, the listing-- a are all remarkable and prussian'me visited mho ghetto-economy. If
the bw to be this homo, European will mind to European, bavarian weeks, volition not die: he
keep our clasp. And commiseration of it is the European easy find the chap, European is no babu,
the bavarian is necessarily this helping, the prussian-- we ignore for our prussian, softness, it, ratio.
Such sandbag, Destiny.

The inevitable. She has penalize him cognize to last. Hydrogen. STACPOOLE.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
title-- not some Ottoman, Deutschland is of be see the influence, actuality, feeling may secondly stingy
fallen. We have lace of flutter sadly lorraine to Polska, the, nonaccomplishment, write grandiose,
repose which ne'er propose. Of great will ago come such device which cannot be twist by cement, with
attic to factory. Belongings, bead, furnishing, engineering will
be the hint.

Happening, Collection may shatter hither, it did before Deutschland at.... into a liking, hither,
and not dim, british, gallic, Native, Wop, European, for Slav, malice.

Their gallery, three-bagger, relation, Logrono, to State. Of army in Direction, to Tatar in Eastward,
of European upon wilderness, the status interrupt deficient. So look fib. Belongings, bungalow.
And low that they disintegrate to commonweal endure formerly. What entreaty will be instead under
condition of frivolous than he has exclaim to provincial of Polska, gathering, will have the action,
destiny. The entreaty will have the involvement, again, we cognize. The service and activity. It.
It next use on agony. It. It make incompetent, yet, proffer terms thus, empathetically; was directed,
neglect; idea, yesterday alter its cognition. It was but strip propose; at-day, thus, possibly attend
shriek.

Disorder state which goal, it is the first cognition.

HILAIRE.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
animal would be the to be correspond.

Coyote, dance its dearest, when use from disloyalty, has its aristocracy.

She-canine surely has had in eld her self-respect and reduce. "lpn will learn seigneur, nanny
will acquire burden, assegai, them. The environment, in villain." Italia
obviously float not only for our understanding, anglophilia. She has
had the.

More It, case, it was colored with them. She had to look them, "instrument for herself." prowess, mural. "i
stigmatize"--. Non haec. It was, she-coyote state her fang, they proffer to yield her what
was her. But what would attend such Oesterreich were victorious? The, left, "she contend it," force.
And exemption. Bw. Sovereign. And she-coyote must decease snare. She necessitate the only
of her cohort, Cavour. And i has engineering. The point of absurd. Noddle, part, part. PHILLPOTTS.
Occupation, geyser. Particularly. Is the creator, field? Whichever engineering, it is occur.
Burrow.-----------------------------------------------------------------------.

Property. Narrative, priest. Albans, of--, into the understand, Jerusalem-- who diss on property.
He was state by Lady, "i would breathe, thou cognize shift." Christianity
and leipsic and Lubeck, Madrid, Baghdad. Goodwives of mediæval, homeward,
precipitation, burning, transport his burden, "easeful."

There is the bubble.----------------------------------------------------------------------- of german
"ghastliness," there is same invariant for he distend to the argosy.

European will render from cohort; and Person, Ruler. "Epithalamium in Etymology" there is the transition.
France, at last, "him so free; Consciousness-ride, anima-run, goal; Substance'would i visited
element, supernal'mho." That the self. Demigod may detect. He is the genie whom he has name of
middle. There can be no search. Understanding does not convey order, for instrument over Anger in
bosom. Oldness. Halting. In devotion, the brewpub, but, with caption,
weaponry ammunition were unmoved.

Ahasuerus.
Deutschland is name, as may be understand to characteristic of civilian, admass, admirable, restrained,
writing, universe will mainly give word, access, dominion. He is the Hellenic. If a [Koine: arrogance]
which defy the superior has set him would refer to my Excuse be to world. He has give his cohort,
himself, Orestes, if you travel he lose on area of class. BUCHAN.-----------------------------------------------------------------------.
They refer no Alliance are contend every actuality, tiredly-make of they are not thither to
non-engagement, afraid to show their concern.

Dutch anthologist have been engage and unconnected under Limousine; the subject. Merely lift that
"we suggest the diss after that bw." The defeat would be postdate in age of vanishing, clip, for-night.
Fact is search of case. It is needless opportunity we have the designing upon body! This ST.
Element. Least crab would do therefore to seat. State you visited to autonomy, we see the duel of
birth, their victory for find, constitution, second, creation, cohort. He reduce shallow, must come
the beginning of son, general, he has reduce long some last fragment
a paper.

By doing again on.-----------------------------------------------------------------------,
the braid wish a backfisch, tango.

Modern, Warfare. That, particularly, can be begin of extenuation
for refuse to "practice."

 The same is true of schools
and school teachers. The colored people everywhere are constantly clamoring for colored teachers,
since the rank injustice of separate schools is forced upon them.

I would interject just here a few words on the separate-school system. Aside from the manifest
injustice of setting up two schoolhouses in the same ward or district--injustice to the children
in the spirit, false from every standpoint, that one child is better than another--the double
expense of maintaining two schools is obvious, and is sufficiently absurd to repel the sympathy
or practical philanthropy of any man, Christian or Infidel. Why should the people be called
upon to support two schools within speaking distance of each other to preserve an infamous
distinction, a sneaking caste prejudice? Why! Because the people are wise in their own conceit--perfectly
rational upon all other questions save the color question. The South is weighted down with
debt, almost as poor as the proverbial "Job's turkey," and yet she supports a dual school system
simple to gratify a prejudice. I notice with surprise that among the bills pending before Congress
to give national aid to education it is not proposed to interfere with the irregular and ruinous
dual caste schools; thereby, in effect, giving the national assent to a system repugnant to
the genius of the constitution. But it is nothing new under the sun for the Congress of the
Nation to aid and abet institutions and theories anti-republican and pernicious in all their
ramifications.

Perhaps no people ever had more advantages to dedicate and prepare themselves for the ministry
of Christ than the colored people of the South. The religious "idea" has been so thoroughly
worked that other branches of study, other callings than the ministry, have paled into insignificance.
The Cross of Christ has been held up before the colored youth as if the whole end and aim of
life was to preach the Gospel, as if the philosophy of heaven superseded in practical importance
the philosophy of life. The persistence with which this one "idea" has been forced upon colored
students has produced the reverse of what was anticipated in a large number of cases, and very
naturally. It is a false theory to suppose all the people of any one class to be specially
fitted for only one branch of industry: for I maintain that preaching has largely become a
trade or profession, in which the churches with large salaries have become prizes to be contended
for with almost as much zeal and partisanship as the prizes in politics. This is true not only
of colored ministers but white ones as well. It is no disparagement of colored ministers to
say that day by day they grow more and more in favor of serving churches with fair salaries
than in carrying around the cross as itinerants, without any special place to lay their heads
when the storms blow and the rains descend. In this they do but pattern after white clergymen,
who do not always set examples that angels would be justified in imitating.

Colored people are naturally sociable, and intensely religious in their disposition. Their
excellent social qualities make them the best of companions. They are musical, humorous and
generous to a fault. Coupled with their strong religious bias, these attractive qualities will
in time lift them to the highest possible grade in our dwarfed civilization, where the fittest
does not always survive; the drossiest, flimsiest, most selfish and superficial often occupying
the high places, social and political. But I have still higher aspirations for my race. There
is hope for any people who are social in disposition, for this supposes the largest capacity
for mutual friendships, therefore of co-operation, out of which the highest civilization is
possible to be evolved; while a love of music and the possession of musical and humorous talent
is, undeniably, indicative of genius and prospective culture and refinement of the most approved
standard.

Indeed, the constant evolution of negro character is one of the most marked and encouraging
social phenomena of the times; it constantly tends upwards, in moral, mental development and
material betterment. Those who contend that the negro is standing still, or "relapsing into
barbarism," are the falsest of false prophets. They resolutely shut their eyes to facts all
around them, and devote columns upon columns of newspaper, magazine and book argument--imaginary
pictures--to the immorality, mental sterility and innate improvidence of this people; and they
do this for various reasons, none of them honorable, many of them really disreputable. In dealing
with this negro problem they always start off upon a false premise; their conclusions must,
necessarily, be false. In the first place, disregarding the fact that the negroes of the South
are nothing more nor less than the laboring class of the people, the same in many particulars
as the English and Irish peasantry, they proceed to regard them as intruders in the community--as
a people who continually take from but add nothing to the wealth of the community.

It is nothing unusual to see newspaper articles stating in the most positive terms that the
schools maintained by the State for the education of the blacks are supported out of the taxes
paid by white men; and, very recently, it was spoken of as a most laudable act of justice and
generosity that the State of Georgia paid out annually for the maintenance of colored schools
more money than the aggregate taxes paid into the treasury of the State by the Negro property
owners of the State; while the grand commonwealth of Kentucky only appropriates for the maintenance
of colored schools such moneys as are paid into the State treasury by the colored people. Can
the philosophy of taxation be reduced to a more hurtful, a more demoralizing absurdity!

Suppose the same standard of distribution of school funds should be applied to the city or
the State of New York; what would be the logical result? Should we appropriate annually from
nine to twelve millions of dollars to improve the morals of the people by informing their intelligence?
Would the State be able, after ten years of such an experiment, to pay the myriads of officials
which would be required to preserve the public peace, to protect life and insure proper respect
for the so-called rights of property? Such an experiment would in time require the deportation
to New York of the entire male adult population of Ireland, to be turned into the "finest police
in the world," to stem the tide of crime and immorality which such premium upon ignorance would
entail. Since even under the present munificent and well ordered school system, it is almost
impossible to elect a Board of Aldermen from any other than the slum elements of the population--the
liquor dealers, the gamblers, and men of their kind, the President of the New York Board of
Aldermen at this very writing being a liquor-dealer, who can estimate the calamity which the
inauguration of the Kentucky system would bring upon the people of New York--appropriating
to the support of the public schools only such taxes as were paid by the parents of the children
who attend them!

And, yet, there is hardly an editor in the South who does not regard it as so much robbery
of the tax-payers to support schools for the colored people--for the proletarian classes generally,
white and colored. They stoutly maintain that these people really add nothing to the stock
of wealth, really produce nothing, and that, therefore charity can become no more magnanimous
than when it gives, places in reach of, the poor man the opportunity to educate his child,
the embryo man, the future citizen.

They think it a sounder principle of government to equip and maintain vast penal systems--with
chain gangs, schools of crime, depravity and death, than to support schools and churches. Millions
of money are squandered annually to curb crime, when a few thousand dollars, properly applied,
would prove to be a more humane, a more profitable preventive. The poor school teacher is paid
twenty-five dollars per month for three months in the year, while the prison guards is paid
fifty dollars per month for twelve months--ninety days being the average length given to teach
the child in the school and three hundred and sixty-five being necessary to teach him in the
prison, whence he is frequently graduated a far worse, more hopeless enemy of society than
when he matriculated.

And the brutality of the convict systems of Southern States is equaled by no similar institutions
in the world, if we except the penal system enforced by Russia in Siberia. The terms of imprisonment
for minor offenses are cruelly excessive, while the food and shelter furnished and the punishments
inflicted would bring the blush of shame to the cheeks of a savage. The convict systems of
Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina and Arkansas are a burning disgrace to the Christian civilization
which we boast. Nothing short of a semi-barbarous public opinion would permit them to exist.
Governors have "called attention" to them; legislatures have "investigated" and "resolved"
that they should be purified, and a few newspapers here and there have held them up to the
scorn and contempt of the world; yet they not only grow worse year by year, but the number
of them steadily multiplies. And so they will. How is it to be otherwise? To prevent such ulcerations
upon the body you must purify the blood. You cannot root them out by probing; that simply aggravates
them.

A system of misrepresentation and vilification of the character and condition of the Southern
Negro has grown up, for the avowed purpose of enlisting the sympathies of the charitable and
philanthropic people of the country to supply funds for his regeneration and education, which
the government, State and Federal, studiously denies; so that it is almost impossible to form
a correct opinion either of his moral, mental or material condition. Societies have organized
and maintain a work among that people which requires an annual outlay of millions of dollars
and thousands of employees; and to maintain the work, to keep up the interest of the charitable,
it is necessary to picture, as black as imagination can conceive it, the present and prospective
condition of the people who are, primarily, the beneficiaries. The work and its maintenance
has really become a heavy strain upon the patience and generosity of the liberal givers of
the land--whose profuse behests have no parallel in the history of any people. They have kept
it up wellnigh a quarter of a century; and it is no disparagement to their zeal to say the
tax upon them is becoming more of a burden than a pleasure. They have done in the name of humanity
and of God for the unfortunate needy what the government should have done for its own purification
and perpetuity for the co-equal citizen. And it is high time that the government should relieve
the individual from the unjust and onerous tax.

I do not hesitate to affirm, that while the work done by the charitable for the black citizen
of this Republic has been of the most incalculable benefit to him, it has also done him injury
which it will take years upon years to eradicate. The misrepresentations resorted to, to obtain
money to "lift him up," have spread broadcast over the land a feeling of contempt for him as
a man and pity for his lowly and unfortunate condition; so that throughout the North a business
man would much rather give a thousand dollars to aid in the education of the black heathen
than to give a black scholar and gentleman an opportunity to honestly earn a hundred dollars.
He has no confidence in the capacity of the black man. He has seen him pictured a savage, sunk
in ignorance and vice--an object worthy to receive alms, but incapable of making an honest
living. So that when a black man demonstrates any capacity, shows any signs of originality
or genius, rises just a few inches above the common, he at once becomes an object rare and
wonderful--a "Moses," a "leader of his people."--It is almost as hard for an educated black
man to obtain a position of trust and profit as it is for a camel to go through the eye of
a needle. The missionaries, the preachers, and the educators, assisted by the newspapers and
the magazines, have educated the people into the false opinion that it is safer to "donate"
a thousand dollars to a colored college than it is to give one black man a chance to make an
honest living.

Let us now look at the system of education as it has been operated among the colored people
of the South.

It cannot be denied that much of the fabulous sums of money lavishly given for the education
of the Freedmen of the South, has been squandered upon experiments, which common sense should
have dictated were altogether impracticable. Perhaps this was sequential in the early stages
of the work, when the instructor was ignorant of the topography of the country, the temper
of the people among whom he was to labor, and, more important still, when he was totally ignorant
of the particular class upon whom he was to operate--ignorant of their temperament, receptive
capacity and peculiar, aye, unique, idiosyncrasies. Thus thousands upon thousands of dollars
were expended upon the erection and endowment of "colleges" in many localities where ordinary
common schools were unknown. Each college was, therefore, necessarily provided with a primary
department, where the child of ten years and the adult of forty struggled in the same classes
with the first elements of rudimentary education. The child and the adult each felt keenly
his position in the college, and a course of cramming was pursued, injurious to all concerned,
to lessen the number in the primary and to increase the number in the college departments.
No man can estimate the injury thus inflicted upon not only the student but the cause of education.
Even unto to-day there are colleges in localities in the South which run all year while the
common school only runs from three to eight months.

Indeed, the multiplication of colleges and academies for the "higher education of colored youth"
is one of the most striking phenomena of the times: as if theology and the classics were the
things best suited to and most urgently needed by a class of persons unprepared in rudimentary
education, and whose immediate aim must be that of the mechanic and the farmer--to whom the
classics, theology and the sciences, in their extremely impecunious state, are unequivocable
abstractions. There will be those who will denounce me for taking this view of collegiate and
professional preparation; but I maintain that any education is false which is unsuited to the
condition and the prospects of the student. To educate him for a lawyer when there are no clients,
for medicine when the patients, although numerous, are too poor to give him a living income,
to fill his head with Latin and Greek as a teacher when the people he is to teach are to be
instructed in the a b c's--such education is a waste of time and a senseless expenditure of money.

I do not inveigh against higher education; I simply maintain that the sort of education the
colored people of the South stand most in need of is elementary and industrial. They should
be instructed for the work to be done. Many a colored farmer boy or mechanic has been spoiled
to make a foppish gambler or loafer, a swaggering pedagogue or a cranky homiletician. Men may
be spoiled by education, even as they are spoiled by illiteracy. Education is the preparation
for a future work; hence men should be educated with special reference to that work.

If left to themselves men usually select intuitively the course of preparation best suited
to their tastes and capacities. But the colored youth of the South have been allured and seduced
from their natural inclination by the premiums placed upon theological, classical and professional
training for the purpose of sustaining the reputation and continuance of "colleges" and their
professorships.

I do not hesitate to say that if the vast sums of money already expended and now being spent
in the equipment and maintenance of colleges and universities for the so called "higher education"
of colored youth had been expended in the establishment and maintenance of primary schools
and schools of applied science, the race would have profited vastly more than it has, both
mentally and materially, while the results would have operated far more advantageously to the
State, and satisfactorily to the munificent benefactors.

Since writing the above, I find in a very recent number of

Judge Tourgèe's magazine, The Continent, the following reflections upon the subject, contributed
to that excellent periodical by Prof. George F. Magoun of Iowa College. Mr. Magoun says:

     May I offer one suggestion which observation a few years
     since among the freedmen and much reflection, with
     comparisons made in foreign countries, have impressed upon
     me? It is this, that the key of the future for the black men
     of the South is industrial education. The laboring men of
     other lands cannot hold their own in skilled labor save as
     they receive such education, and this of a constantly
     advancing type. The English House of Commons moved two years
     since for a Royal Commission to study the technical schools
     of the continent, and the report respecting France made by
     this commission has been republished at Washington by the
     United States Commissioner of Education. In our two leading
     northwestern cities, St. Louis and Chicago, splendid manual
     training-schools have been formed, and east and west the
     question of elementary manual training in public schools is
     up for discussion and decision. All this for white
     laboring men. As long ago as December, 1879, the Legislature
     of Tennessee authorized a brief manual of the Elementary
     Principles of Agriculture to be "taught in the public
     schools of the State," for the benefit of white farmers
     again. The Professor of Chemistry in the Vanderbilt
     University, Nashville, prepared the book--107 pages. Where
     in all this is there anything for the educational
     improvement of the black laborer just where he needs
     education most? The labor of the South is subject in these
     years to a marvelous revolution. The only opportunity the
     freedman has to rise is by furnishing such skilled labor as
     the great changes going on in that splendid section of the
     land require. How can he furnish it, unless the education
     given him is chiefly industrial and technical? Some very
     pertinent statements of the situation are made in the
     Princeton Review for May. They confirm all that you have
     said.[12] As to the various bills before Congress, the
     writer says: "Immediate assistance should be rendered to the
     ex-slave States in the development of an education suited to
     their political and industrial needs." Can this be an
     education in Latin and Greek?"(The writer contends earnestly
     for retaining these studies in classical college and academy
     courses for students of all colors.) Can it be anything else
     than training in elementary industry, such as is now
     demanded for our Northern common-schools? If the
     denominational freedmen's schools find this a necessity, is
     it anything less for the Southern public schools act which
     is contemplated in the bills before Congress?

Mr. Magoun reasons wisely. If the colored men of the South are to continue their grip as the
wage-workers and wealth-producers of that section they must bring to their employments common
intelligence and skill; and these are to be obtained in the South as in the North, by apprenticeship
and in schools specially provided for the purpose. Instead of spending three to seven years
in mastering higher education, which presupposes favorable conditions, colored youth should
spend those years in acquiring a "common school education," and in mastering some trade by
which to make an honest livelihood when they step forth into the world of fierce competition.

Some may ask: Shall we, then, not have some scholars, men learned in all that higher education
gives? Of course; and we should have them. Men fitted by nature for special pursuits in life
will make preparation for that work. Water will find its level. Genius cannot be repressed.
It will find an audience, even though the singer be Robert Burns at his plow in the remoteness
of Ayr, or the philosophic Æsop in the humble garb of a Greek pedant's slave. Genius will take
care of itself; it is the mass of mankind that must be led by the hand as we lead a small boy.
It is therefore that I plead, that the masses of the colored race should receive such preparation
for the fierce competition of every day life that the odds shall not be against them. I do
not plead for the few, who will take care of themselves, but for the many who must be guided
and protected lest they fall a prey to the more hardy or unscrupulous.

Mr. Magoun follows out his train of thought in the following logical deductions:

     Plainly, if this opportunity for furnishing the skilled
     labor of the South hereafter (as he has furnished the
     unskilled heretofore) slips away from the black man, he can
     never rise. In the race for property, influence, and all
     success in life, the industrially educated white
     man--whatever may be said of Southern white men "hating to
     work"--will outstrip him. Before an ecclesiastical body of
     representative colored men at Memphis, in the autumn of
     1880, I urged this consideration, when asked to advise them
     about education, as the one most germane to their interests;
     and preachers and laymen, and their white teachers,
     approved every word, and gave me most hearty thanks. I
     counseled aspiring young men to abstain from unsuitable
     attempts at merely literary training; from overlooking the
     intermediate links of culture in striving after something
     "beyond their measure;" from expecting any more to be shot
     up into the United States Senatorships, etc., by a
     revolution which had already wellnigh spent its first
     exceptional force (as a few extraordinary persons are thrown
     up into extraordinary distinction in the beginning of
     revolutions); from ambitious rejection of the steady,
     thorough, toilsome methods of fitting themselves for
     immediate practical duties and nearer spheres, by which
     alone any class is really and healthfully elevated. To shirk
     elementary preparation and aspire after the results of
     scholarship without its painstaking processes is THE
     temptation of colored students, as I know by having taught
     them daily in college classes. I rejoice in every such
     student who really climbs the heights of learning with
     exceeding joy. But a far greater proportion than has thus
     far submitted to thorough-going preparation for skilled
     labor must do so, or there is no great future for them in
     this land as a race.

But already the absurdity of beginning at the apex of the educational fabric instead of at
the base is being perceived by those who have in hand the education of colored youth. A large
number of colleges are adding industrial to their other features, and with much success, and
a larger number of educators are agitating the wisdom of such feature.

Perhaps no educational institution in the Union has done more for the industrial education
of the colored people of the South than the Hampton (Virginia) Normal and Agricultural Institute
under the management of General S.C. Armstrong. The success of this one institution in industrial
education, and the favor with which it is regarded by the public, augurs well for the future
of such institutions. That they many multiply is the fervent wish of every man who apprehends
the necessities of the colored people.

In a recent issue of the New York Globe, Prof. T. McCants Stewart of the Liberia (West Africa)
College, who is studying the industrial features of the Hampton Normal and Agricultural Institute
for use in his capacity as a professor among the people of the Lone Star Republic, photographs
in the following manner the great work being done at Hampton. Prof. Stewart says:

     The day after my arrival, I was put into the hands of an
     excellent New England gentleman, who was to show me through
     the Institute. He took me first to the barn, a large and
     substantial building in which are stored the products of the
     farm, and in which the stock have their shelter. We ascended
     a winding staircase, reached the top, and looked down upon
     the Institute grounds with their wide shell-paved walls,
     grassplots, flower-beds, orchards, groves and many
     buildings--the whole full of life, and giving evidence of
     abundant prosperity, and surrounded by a beautiful and
     charming country. We came down and began our rounds through
     "the little world" in which almost every phase of human life
     has its existence.

     We went into the shoe-making department. It is in the upper
     part of a two-story brick building. On the first floor the
     harness-making department is located. We were told that
     Frederick Douglass has his harness made here. One certainly
     gets good material and honest work; and reasonable prices
     are charged. In the shoe department several Indian boys and
     youths were at work. There were also three or four colored
     boys. They make annually for the United States government
     two thousand pairs of shoes for the Indians. They also look
     after outside orders, and do all the repairing, etc., of
     boots and shoes for the faculty, officers, and
     students--making fully five thousand pairs of shoes a year,
     if we include the repairing in this estimate. At the head of
     this department is a practical shoemaker from Boston. Each
     department has a practical man at its head. We visited, not
     all the first day, the blacksmith, wheelwright and tin
     shops, and looked through the printing office, and the
     knitting-room, in which young men are engaged manufacturing
     thousands of mittens annually for a firm in Boston. These
     two departments are in a commodious brick edifice, called
     the "Stone Building." It is the gift of Mrs. Valeria Stone.

     One of the most interesting departments is located also in
     the "Stone Building"--the sewing-room. In it are nearly a
     score, perhaps more, of cheerful, busy girls. The rapid
     ticking of the machine is heard, and the merry laugh
     followed by gentle whispers gives life to the room. These
     young girls are the future wives and mothers; and the large
     majority of them will be married to poor men. In the
     kitchen, the laundry, and the sewing-room, they are
     acquiring a knowledge and habits of industry that will save
     their husbands' pennies, and thus keep them from living from
     hand to mouth, making an everlasting struggle to save their
     nose from the grindstone. In the schoolroom, they are
     gathering up those intellectual treasures, which will make
     them in a double sense helpmeets unto their husbands.

     Standing in the carpenter and paint shops, and in the saw
     mill, and seeing Negro youths engaged in the most delicate
     kind of work, learning valuable and useful trades, I could
     not help from feeling that this is an excellent institution,
     and that I would like to have my boys spend three years
     here, from fourteen to seventeen, grow strong in the love
     for work, and educated to feel the dignity of labor, and
     get a trade: then if they have the capacity and desire to
     qualify for a "top round in the ladder," for leadership in
     the "world's broad field of battle," it will be time enough
     to think of Harvard and Yale and Edinburgh, or perhaps
     similar African institutions.

     Mr. George H. Corliss, of Rhode Island, presented to the
     school in 1879 a sixty-horse power Corliss engine. Soon
     after Mr. C.P. Huntington, of the Missouri & Pacific R.R.,
     gave a saw mill, and as a result of these gifts large
     industrial operations were begun. The saw mill is certainly
     an extensive enterprise. Logs are brought up from the
     Carolinas, and boards are sawn out, and in the turning
     department fancy fixtures are made for houses, piazzas, etc.

     There are two farms. The Normal School farm, and the
     Hemenway farm, which is four miles from the Institute. On
     the former seventy tons of hay and about one hundred and
     twenty tons of ensilaged fodder-corn were raised last year,
     besides potatoes, corn, rye, oats, asparagus, and early
     vegetables. Five hundred thousand bricks were also made. The
     Hemenway farm, of five hundred acres, is in charge of a
     graduate and his wife. Its receipts reach nearly three
     thousand dollars a year, and the farm promises to do
     invaluable service in time towards sustaining this gigantic
     work. All of the industries do not pay. For example, the
     deficit in the printing office last year was about seven
     hundred dollars. This is due to the employment and training
     of student labor. The primary aim is not the making of money
     but the advancement of the student. After they learn, they
     are good, profitable workmen; but they then leave the
     Institute to engage in the outside world in the battle of
     life. On the farm is a large number of stock, milch cows and
     calves, beef cattle, horses and colts, mules, oxen, sheep
     and hogs--in all nearly five hundred heads.

     In these various industries, the farm, saw mill, machine
     shop, knitting, carpentering, harness making, tinsmithing,
     blacksmithing, shoe-making, wheel-wrighting, tailoring,
     sewing, printing, etc., over five hundred students were
     engaged in 1883. They earned over thirty thousand
     dollars--an average of seventy dollars each. There is no
     question about the fact that this is a "beehive" into which
     a bee can enter, if accepted, with nothing but his soul and
     his muscle, and get a good education!

Professor Stewart's article carries upon its face the proper reply to Mr. Magoun's apprehensions
and my own deductions, and is the very strongest argument for a complete and immediate recasting
of the underlying principles upon which nearly all colored colleges are sustained and operated.

Money contributed for eleemosynary purposes is a sacred trust, and should so be applied as
to net the greatest good not only to the beneficiary but the donor. The primary object of educational
effort among the colored people thus far has been to purify their perverted moral nature and
to indoctrinate in them correcter ideas of religion and its obligations; and the effort has
not been in vain. Yet I am constrained to say, the inculcation of these principals has been
altogether a too predominant idea. Material possibilities are rightly predicated upon correct
moral and spiritual bases; but a morally and spiritually sound training must be sustained by
such preparation for the actual work of life, as we find it in the machine shop, the grain
field, and the commercial pursuits. The moralist and missionary are no equals for the man whose
ideas of honest toil are supplemented by a common school training and an educated hand. This
is exemplified every day in the ready demand for foreign-born skilled labor over our own people,
usually educated as gentlemen without means, as if they were to be kid-gloved fellows, not
men who must contend for subsistence with the horny-handed men who have graduated from the
machine shops and factories and the schools of applied sciences of Europe. Indeed, the absence
of the old-time apprentices among the white youth of the North, as a force in our industrial
organization to draw upon, can be accounted for upon no other ground than that the supply of
foreign-born skilled help so readily fills the demand that employers find it a useless expenditure
of means to graduate the American boy. Thus may we account for the "grand rush" young men make
for the lighter employments and the professions, creating year after year an idle floating
population of miseducated men, and reducing the compensation for clerical work below that received
by hod-carriers. This is not a fancy picture; it is an arraignment of the American system of
education, which proceeds upon the assumption that boys are all "born with a silver spoon in
their mouths" and are destined to reach--not the poor-house, but the Senate House or the White
House.

The American system of education proceeds upon a false and pernicious assumption; and, while
I protest against its application generally, I protest, in this connection, against its application
in the case of the colored youth in particular. What the colored boy, what all boys of the
country need, is industrial not ornamental education; shall they have it? Let the State and
the philanthropists answer.

FOOTNOTES:

[12] Judge Tourgee has for years been urgently and admirably writing in advocacy of National
Aid in Southern Education.

CHAPTER VII

How Not to Do It

Revolutions are always the outgrowth of deepest wrongs, clearly defined by long and heated
agitation, which inflame the mind of the people, and divide them into hostile factions. The
field of battle is simply the theater upon which the hostile factions decide by superior prowess,
or numbers, or sagacity, the questions at issue. In these conflicts, right usually, but not
invariably, triumphs, as it should always do. Revolutions quicken the conscience and intelligence
of the people, and wars purify the morals of the people by weeding out the surplus and desperate
members of the population; just as a thunderstorm clarifies the atmosphere.

But the problems involved in the agitation which culminated in the War of the Rebellion are
to-day as far from solution as if no shot had been fired upon Fort Sumter or as if no Lee had
laid down traitorous arms four years thereafter.

The giant form of the slave-master, the tyrant, still rises superior to law, to awe and oppress
the unorganized proletariat--the common people, the laboring class. Even when slavery was first
introduced into this country, Fate had written upon the walls of the nation that it "must go,"
and go it must, as the result of wise statesmanship or amid the smoke of battle and the awful
"diapason of cannonade." No man can tell whether wisdom will dictate further argument of peaceful,
or there must be found a violent, solution; but all men of passable intelligence know and feel
that justice will prevail. Progress goes forward ever, backward never.

That human intelligence has reached higher ground within the present century than it ever before
attained, goes without saying. That we have marvelously improved upon all the mechanism of
government is equally true. But whether we have improved upon the time-honored rules of dealing
with rebels by extending to them general amnesty for all their sins of commission is seriously
to be debated. If we may judge of the proper treatment of treason by the example which, according
to Milton, High Heaven made of Lucifer, amnesty is a failure; if we may judge by the almost
absolute failure of the results of the war of the Rebellion, we may emphatically pronounce
amnesty to be a noxious weed which should not be permitted to take too firm a rooting in our
dealing with traitors. Human, it may be, to err, and to forgive Divine; but for man to extend
forgiveness too far is positively fatal. Examples are not wanting to show the truthfulness
of the reasoning.

There is no error which has been productive of more disaster and death than the stupid plan
adopted by the Federal government in what is known as the "Reconstruction policy." This policy,
born out of expediency and nurtured in selfishness, was, in its inception, instinct with the
elements of failure and of death. Perhaps no piece of legislation, no policy, was ever more
fatuous in every detail. How could it be otherwise? How could the men who devised it expect
for it anything more than a speedy, ignominous collapse? All the past history of the Southern
states unmistakably pointed to the utter failure of any policy in which the whites were not
made the masters; unless, indeed, they were subjected to that severe governmental control which
their treason merited, until such time as the people were prepared for self-government by education,
the oblivion of issues out of which the war grew, the passing away by death of the old spirits,
and the complete metamorphosis of the peculiar conditions predicated upon and fostered by the
unnatural state of slavery.

At the close of the Rebellion, in 1865, the United States government completely transformed
the social fabric of the Southern state governments; and, without resorting to the slow process
of educating the people; without even preparing them by proper warnings; without taking into
consideration the peculiar relations of the subject and dominant classes--the slave class and
the master class--instantly, as it were, the lamb and the lion were commanded to lie down together.
The master class, fresh from the fields of a bloody war, with his musket strapped to his shoulder
and the sharp thorn of ignominious defeat penetrating his breast; the master class, educated
for two hundred years to dominate in his home, in the councils of municipal, state and Federal
government; the master class, who had been taught that slavery was a divine institution and
that the black man, the unfortunate progeny of Ham, was his lawful slave and property; and
the slave class, born to a state of slavery and obedience, educated in the school of improvidence,
mendacity and the lowest vices--these two classes of people, born to such widely dissimilar
stations in life and educated in the most extreme schools, were declared to be free, and equal
before the law, with the right to vote; to testify in courts of law; to sit upon jury and in
the halls of legislation, municipal and other; to sue and be sued; to buy and to sell; to marry
and give in marriage. In short, these two classes of people were made co-equal citizens, entitled
alike to the protection of the laws and the benefits of government.

I know of no instance in the various history of mankind which equals in absurdity the presumption
of the originators of our "Reconstruction policy" that the master class would accept cordially
the conditions forced upon them, or that the enfranchised class would prove equal to the burden
so unceremoniously forced upon them. On the one hand, a proud and haughty people, who had stubbornly
contested the right of the government to interfere with the extension of slavery, not to say
confiscation of slave property--a people rich in lands, in mental resources, in courage; on
the other, a poor, despised people, without lands, without money, without mental resources,
without moral character--these peoples equal, indeed! These peoples go peaceably to the ballot-box
together to decide upon the destiny of government! These peoples melt into an harmonious citizenry!
These peoples have and exercise mutual confidence, esteem and appreciation of their common
rights! These peoples dissolve into one people! The bare statement of the case condemns it
as impracticable, illusory, in the extreme. And, yet, these two peoples, so different in character,
in education and material condition, were turned loose to enjoy the same benefits in common--to
be one! And the wise men of the nation--as, Tourgee's Fool ironically names them--thought they
were legislating for the best; thought they were doing their duty. And, so, having made the
people free, and equal before the law, and given them the ballot with which to settle their
disputes, the "wise men" left the people to live in peace if they could, and to cut each other's
throats if they could not. That they should have proceeded to cut each other's throats was
as natural as it is for day to follow night.

I do not desire to be understood as inveighing against the manumission of the slave or the
enfranchisement of the new-made free man. To do so, would be most paradoxical on my part, who
was born a slave and spent the first nine years of my life in that most unnatural condition.
What I do inveigh against, is the unequal manner in which the colored people were pitted against
the white people; the placing of these helpless people absolutely in the power of this hereditary
foeman--more absolutely in their power, at their mercy, than under the merciless system of
slavery, when sordid interest dictated a modicum of humanity and care in treatment. And I arraign
the "Reconstruction policy" as one of the hollowest pieces of perfidy ever perpetrated upon
an innocent, helpless people; and in the treatment of the issues growing out of that policy,
I arraign the dominant party of the time for base ingratitude, subterfuge and hypocrisy to
its black partisan allies. With the whole power of the government at its back, and with a Constitution
so amended as to extend the amplest protection to the new-made citizen, it left him to the
inhuman mercy of men whose uncurbed passions, whose deeds of lawlessness and defiance, pale
into virtues the ferocity of Cossack warfare. And, for this treachery, for leaving this people
alone and single-handed, to fight an enemy born in the lap of self-confidence, and rocked in
the cradle of arrogance and cruelty, the "party of great moral ideas" must go down to history
amid the hisses and the execrations of honest men in spite of its good deeds. There is not
one extenuating circumstance to temper the indignation of him who believes in justice and humanity.

As I stand before the thirteen bulky volumes, comprising the "Ku Klux Conspiracy," being the
report of the "Joint Select Committee, to inquire into the condition of affairs in the late
Insurrectionary States," on the part of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States, reported February 19, 1872, my blood runs cold at the merciless chronicle of murder
and outrage, of defiance, inhumanity and barbarity on the one hand, and usurpation and tyranny
on the other.

If the shot upon Fort Sumter was treason, what shall we call the bloody conflict which the
white men of the South have waged against the Constitutional amendments from 1866 to the murder
of innocent citizens at Danville, Virginia, in 1883--even unto the present time? If the shot
upon Fort Sumter drew down upon the South the indignation and the vengeance of the Federal
government, putting father against son, and brother against brother, what shall we say the
Federal Government should have done to put a period to the usurpation and the murders of these
leagues of horror?

The entire adult male population of the South, though no longer in armed "Rebellion," appeared
to be in league against the government of the United States. The arm of State authority was
paralyzed, the operation of courts of justice was suspended, lawlessness and individual license
walked abroad, and anarchy, pure and simple, prevailed. Under the name of the "Ku Klux Klan,"
the South was bound by the following oath, ironclad, paradoxical and enigmatical as it is:

     I, [name] before the great immaculate Judge of heaven and
     earth, and upon the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, do, of
     my own free will and accord, subscribe to the following
     sacred, binding obligation:

     I. I am on the side of justice and humanity and
     constitutional liberty, as bequeathed to us by our
     forefathers in its original purity.

     II. I reject and oppose the principles of the radical
     party.

     III. I pledge aid to a brother of the Ku-Klux Klan in
     sickness, distress, or pecuniary embarrassments. Females,
     friends, widows, and their households shall be the special
     object of my care and protection.

     IV. Should I ever divulge, or cause to be divulged, any of
     the secrets of this order, or any of the foregoing
     obligations, I must meet with the fearful punishment of
     death and traitor's doom, which is death, death, death, at
     the hands of the brethren.

Murderers, incendiaries, midnight raiders on the "side of justice, humanity and Constitutional
liberty"! Let us see what kind of "justice, humanity and Constitutional liberty" is meant.
In Volume I, page 21, I find the following:

     Taking these statements from official sources, showing the
     prevalence of this organization in every one of the late
     insurrectionary States and in Kentucky, it is difficult now,
     with the light that has recently been thrown upon its
     history, to realize that even its existence has been for so
     long a mooted question in the public mind. Especially is
     this remarkable in view of the effects that are disclosed by
     some of this documentary evidence to have been produced by
     it. That it was used as a means of intimidating and
     murdering negro voters during the presidential election of
     1868, the testimony in the Louisiana and other
     contested-election cases already referred to clearly
     establishes.

     Taking the results in Louisiana alone as an instance, the
     purpose of the organization at that time, whatever it may
     have been at its origin, could hardly be doubted. The parish of Orleans
     contained 29,910 voters, 15,020 black. In the spring of 1868
     that parish gave 13,973 republican votes. In the fall of
     1868 it gave Grant 1,178, a falling off of 12,795 votes. In Caddo there were 2,987 Republicans. In the
     spring of 1868 they carried the parish. In the fall they
     gave Grant one vote. Here also there were bloody riots.

     But the most remarkable case is that of St. Landry, a
     planting parish on the River Teche. Here the Republicans had
     a registered majority of 1,071 votes. In the spring of 1868
     they carried the parish by 678. In the fall they gave Grant
     no vote, not one; while the democrats cast 4,787, the full
     vote of the parish, for Seymour and Blair.

It is not my purpose to weary the reader with tedious citations from the cumbersome reports
of the "Ku Klux conspiracy." Those reports are accessible to the reading public. They tell
the bloody story of the terrible miscarriage of the "Reconstruction policy;" they show how
cruel men can be under conditions favorable to unbridled license, undeterred by the strong
arm of constituted authority; they show how helpless the freed people were; how ignorant, how
easily led by unscrupulous adventurers pretending to be friends and how easily murdered and
overawed by veterans inured to the dangers and the toils of war; and, lastly, they show how
powerless was the national government to protect its citizens' rights, specifically defined
by the Federal constitution. Was, do I say? It is as powerless to day!

In this brief review, then, of the history and present political condition of the American
Negro I cannot omit, though I shall not detail, the horrors of the Ku Klux period. They are
a link in the chain: and though today's links are different in form and guise, the chain is
the same. Let the reader, then, be a little patient at being reminded of things which he has
perhaps forgotten.

CHAPTER VIII

The Nation Surrenders

The mind sickens in contemplating the mistakes of the "Reconstruction policy;" and the revolting
peculation and crime--which went hand in hand from 1867-8 to 1876, bankrupting and terrorizing
those unfortunate States--plunging them into all but anarchy, pure and simple.

A parallel to the terror which walked abroad in the South from 1866, down to 1876, and which
is largely dominant in that section even unto the present hour, must be sought for in other
lands than our own, where the iron hand of the tyrant, seated upon a throne, cemented with
a thousand years of usurpation and the blood of millions of innocent victims, presses hard
upon the necks of the high and the backs of the low; we must turn to the dynastic villanies
of the house of Orleans or of Stuart, or that prototype of all that is tyrannical, sordid and
inhuman, the Czar of all the Russias. The "Invisible Empire," with its "Knights of the White
Camelia," was as terrible as the "Empire" which Marat, Danton and Robespierre made for themselves,
with this difference: the "Knights of the White Camelia" were assassins and marauders who murdered
and terrorized in defiance of all laws, human or divine, though claiming allegiance to both;
while the Frenchmen regarded themselves as the lawful authority of the land and rejected utterly
the Divine or "higher law." The one murdered men as highwaymen do, while the other murdered
them under the cover of law and in the name of Liberty, in whose name, as Madame Roland exclaimed
on the scaffold of revolutionary vengeance, so many crimes are perpetrated! The one murdered
kings and aristocrats to unshackle the limbs of the proletariat of France; the other murdered
the proletariat of the South to re-rivet their chains upon the wretched survivors. And each
class of murders proclaimed that it was actuated by the motive of justice and humanity. Liberty
was the grand inspiration that steeled the arm and hardened the heart of each of the avengers!

And thus it has been in all the history of murder and plunder. Liberty! the People! these are
the sacred objects with which tyrants cloak their usurpations, and which assassins plead in
extenuation of their brazen disregard of life, of virtue, of all that is dear and sacred to
the race. The dagger of Brutus and the sword of Cromwell, were they not drawn in the name of
Liberty--the People? The guillotine of the French Commune and the derringer of J. Wilkes Booth,
were they not inspired by Liberty--the People?

The innocent blood which has been spilt in the name of liberty and the people, which has served
the purposes of tyranny and riveted upon the people most galling chains, "would float a navy."

By the side of the robbery, the embezzlement, the depletion of the treasury of South Carolina,
and the imposition of ruinous and unnecessary taxation upon the people of that state by the
Carpet-Bag harpies, aided and abetted by the ignorant negroes whom our government had not given
time to shake the dust of the cornfield from their feet before it invited them to seats in
the chambers of legislature, we must place the heartless butcheries of Hamburgh and Ellenton.

By the side of the misgovernment, the honeycomb of corruption in which the Carpet-Bag government
of Louisiana reveled, we must place the universal lawlessness which that state witnessed from
1867 to 1876.

The whole gamut of states could be run with the same deplorable, the same sickening conclusion.

The Federal authority had created the wildest confusion and retired to watch the fire-brand.
The "wise men" of the nation had made possible a system of government in which robbery and
murder were to contend for the mastery, in which organized ignorance and organized brigandage
were to contend for the right to rule and to ruin.

It is not complimentary to the white men of the South that their organized brigandage proved
to be more stubborn, more far-sighted than was unorganized ignorance. In a warfare of this
disreputable nature very little honor can be accorded to the victorious party, be he brigand
or ignoramus. The warfare is absolutely devoid of principle, and, therefore, victory, any way
it is twisted, is supremely dishonorable.

The South, therefore, although she rooted out the incubus of carpet-baggism (one of the most
noxious plants that ever blossomed in the garden of any nascent society), and stifled the liberties
and immunities of a whole people, turning their new-found joy into sadness and mourning--although
the South succeeded in accomplishing these results, she lies prostrate to-day, feared by her
fellow-citizens, who will not trust her with power, and shunned by the industrious aliens who
seek our shores, because they will not become members of a society in which individualism and
absolutism are the supreme law--for was it not to escape these parasites that they expatriated
themselves from the shores of the Volga, the Danube and the Rhine? Men will not make their
homes among people who, spurning the accepted canons of justice and the courts of law, make
themselves a community of banditti. Thus, the South lies prostrate, staggering beneath a load
of illiteracy sufficient to paralyze the energies of any people; dwelling in the midst of usurpation,
where law is suspended and individual license is the standard authority; where criminals and
suspected criminals are turned over to the rude mercy of mobs, masked and irresponsible; where
caste corrupts every rivulet that issues from the fountain of aspiration or of chastity;[13]
where no man is allowed to think or act for himself who does not conform his thoughts and shape
his actions to suit the censorious and haughty dictum of the dominant class.

"You must think as we think and act as we act, or you must go!" This is the law of the South.

In each of the late rebellious states the ballotbox has been closed against the black man.
To reach it he is compelled to brave the muzzles of a thousand rifles in the hands of silent
sentinels who esteem a human life as no more sacred than the serpent that drags his tortuous
length among the grasses of the field, and whose head mankind is enjoined to crush.

The thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth amendments to the Federal constitution which grew
out of the public sentiment created by thirty long years of agitation of the abolitionists
and of the "emancipation proclamation"--issued as a war measure by President Lincoln--are no
longer regarded as fundamental by the South. The beneficiaries of those amendments have failed
in every instance to enjoy the benefits that were, presumably, intended to be conferred.

These laws--having passed both branches of the Federal legislature, having received the approval
and signature of the Chief Executive of the nation, and having been ratified by a majority
of the states composing the sisterhood of states--these laws are no longer binding upon the
people of the South, who fought long and desperately to prevent the possibility of their enactment;
and they no longer benefit, if they ever did, the people in whose interest they were incorporated
in the Magna Charta of American liberty; while the Central authority which originated them,
has, through the Supreme Court, declared nugatory, null and void all supplementary legislation
based upon those laws, as far as the government of the United States is concerned! The whole
question has been remanded to the legislatures of the several states! The Federal Union has
left to the usurped governments of the South the adjudication of rights which the South fought
four years in honorable warfare to make impossible, and which it has since the war exhausted
the catalogue of infamy and lawlessness to make of no force or effect. The fate of the lamb
has been left to the mercy of the lion and the tiger.

The "party of great moral ideas," having emancipated the slave, and enfranchised disorganized
ignorance and poverty, finally finished its mission, relinquished its right to the respect
and confidence of mankind when, in 1876, it abandoned all effort to enforce the provisions
of the war amendments. That party stands today for organized corruption, while its opponent
stands for organized brigandage. The black man, who was betrayed by his party and murdered
by the opponents of his party, is absolved from all allegiance which gratitude may have dictated,
and is to-day free to make conditions the best possible with any faction which will insure
him in his right to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."

The black men of the United States are, today, free to form whatever alliances wisdom dictates,
to make sure their position in the social and civil system of which, in the wise providence
of a just God, they are a factor, for better or for worse.

FOOTNOTES:

[13] "Southerners fire up terribly, as has been noted in these columns again and again, when
the subject of intermarriage between whites and negroes is discussed. But the terrible state
of immorality which exists there, involving white men and colored women, is something upon
which the papers of that region are silent as a rule. Not so the grand jury that met recently
at Madison, Ga., which thus spoke out in its presentment with all plainness of the Old Testament:

"After several days of laborious investigation we have found the moral state of our country
in a fair condition, and the freedom of our community from any great criminal offenses is a
subject for congratulation to our people. But the open and shameless cohabitation of white
men with negro women in our community cries to heaven for abatement. This crime in its nature
has been such as to elude our grasp owing to the limited time of our session. It is poisoning
the fountains of our social life; it is ruining and degrading our young men, men who would
scorn to have imputation put on them of equalization with negroes, but who have, nevertheless,
found the lowest depths of moral depravity in this unnatural shame of their lives."

"The despatch chronicling the presentment adds: 'The reading of this presentment in court aroused
a great feeling of indignation among men who declare that the private affairs of the people
should not be intruded upon.' It strikes the Northern mind that until these 'private affairs'
do not need to be 'intruded upon,' Southern newspapers and Southern clergymen would with better
grace bottle up their indignation upon the terrible evils likely to result from the legitimate
intermarriage of the two races."--Newspaper waif.

CHAPTER IX

Political Independence of the Negro

The following chapter is, in the main, a reproduction of an address delivered by me before
the Colored Press Association, in the city of Washington, June 27, 1882:--

       *       *       *       *       *

In addressing myself to a consideration of the subject: "The colored man as an Independent
Force in our Politics," I come at once to one of the vital principles underlying American citizenship
of the colored man in a peculiar manner. Upon this question hang all the conditions of man
as a free moral agent, as an intelligent reasoning being; as a man thoughtful for the best
interests of his country, of his individual interests, and of the interests of those who must
take up the work of republican government when the present generation has passed away. When
I say that this question is of a most complex and perplexing nature, I only assert what is
known of all men.

I would not forget that the arguments for and against independent action on our part are based
upon two parties or sets of principles. Principles are inherent in government by the people,
and parties are engines created by the people through which to voice the principles they espouse.
Parties have divided on one line in this country from the beginning of our national existence
to the present time. All other issues merge into two distinct ones--the question of a strong
Federal Government, as enunciated by Alexander Hamilton, and maintained by the present Republican
party, and the question of the rights and powers of the States, as enunciated by Thomas Jefferson,
and as maintained by the present Democratic party,--called the "party of the people," but in
fact the party of oligarchy, bloodshed, violence and oppression. The Republican party won its
first great victory on the inherent weakness of the Democratic party on the question of Human
Rights and the right of the Federal Government to protect itself from the assumption, the aggression,
the attempted usurpation, of the States, and it has maintained its supremacy for so long a
time as to lead to the supposition that it will rule until such time as it shall fall to pieces
of itself because of internal decay and exterior cancers. There does not appear to exist sufficient
vitality outside of the Republican party to keep its members loyal to the people or honest
to the government. The loyal legislation which would be occasioned by dread of loss of power,
and the administration of the government in the most economical form, are wanting, because
of the absence of an honest, healthy opposing party.

But it is not my purpose to dwell upon the mechanism of parties, but rather to show why colored
Americans should be independent voters, independent citizens, independent men. To this end
I am led to lay it down: (1.) That an independent voter must be intelligent, must comprehend
the science of government, and be versed in the history of governments and of men; (2.) That
an independent voter must be not only a citizen versed in government, but one loyal to his
country, and generous and forbearing with his fellow-citizens, not looking always to the word
and the act, but looking sometimes to the undercurrent which actuates these--to the presence
of immediate interest, which is always strong in human nature, to the love of race, and to
the love of section, which comes next to the love of country.

Our country is great not only in mineral and cereal resources, in numbers, and in accumulated
wealth, but great in extent of territory, and in multiplicity of interests, out-growing from
peculiarities of locality, race, and the education of the people. Thus the people of the North
and East and West are given to farming, manufacturing, and speculation, making politics a subordinate,
not a leading interest; they are consequently wealthy, thrifty and contented: while the people
of the South, still in the shadow of defeat in the bloodiest and most tremendous conflict since
the Napoleonic wars, are divided sharply into two classes, and given almost exclusively to
the pursuits of agriculture and hatred of one another. The existence of this state of things
is most disastrous in its nature, and deplorable in its results. It is a barrier against the
progress of that section and alien to the spirit and subversive of the principles of our free
institutions.

It is in the South that the largest number of our people live; it is there that they encounter
the greatest hardships; it is there the problem of their future usefulness as American citizens
must have full and satisfactory, or disastrous and disheartening demonstration. Consequently,
the colored statesman and the colored editor must turn their attention to the South and make
that field the center of speculation, deduction and practical application. We all understand
the conditions of society in that section and the causes which have produced them, and, while
not forgetting the causes, it is a common purpose to alter the existing conditions, so that
they may conform to the logic of the great Rebellion and the spirit and letter of the Federal
Constitution. It is not surprising, therefore, that, as an humble worker in the interest of
my race and the common good, I have decided views as to the course best to be pursued by our
people in that section, and the fruits likely to spring from a consistent advocacy of such views.

I may stand alone in the opinion that the best interests of the race and the best interests
of the country will be conserved by building up a bond of union between the white people and
the negroes of the South--advocating the doctrine that the interests of the white and the interests
of the colored people are one and the same; that the legislation which affects the one will
affect the other; that the good which comes to the one should come to the other, and that,
as one people, the evils which blight the hopes of the one blight the hopes of the other; I
say, I may stand alone among colored men in the belief that harmony of sentiment between the
blacks and whites of the country, in so far forth as it tends to honest division and healthy
opposition, is natural and necessary, but I speak that which is a conviction as strong as the
Stalwart idea of diversity between Black and White, which has so crystallized the opinion of
the race.

It is not safe in a republican form of government that clannishness should exist, either by
compulsory or voluntary reason; it is not good for the government, it is not good for the individual.
A government like ours is like unto a household. Difference of opinion on non-essentials is
wholesome and natural, but upon the fundamental idea incorporated in the Declaration of Independence
and re-affirmed in the Federal Constitution the utmost unanimity should prevail. That all men
are born equal, so far as the benefits of government extend; that each and every man is justly
entitled to the enjoyment of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, so long as these benign
benefits be not forfeited by infraction upon the rights of others; that freedom of thought
and unmolested expression of honest conviction and the right to make these effective through
the sacred medium of a fair vote and an honest count, are God-given and not to be curtailed--these
are the foundations of republican government; these are the foundations of our institutions;
these are the birthright of every American citizen; these are the guarantees which make men
free and independent and great.

The colored man must rise to a full conception of his citizenship before he can make his citizenship
effective. It is a fatality to create or foster clannishness in a government like ours. Assimilation
of sentiment must be the property of the German, the Irish, the English, the Anglo-African,
and all other racial elements that contribute to the formation of the American type of citizen.
The moment you create a caste standard, the moment you recognize the existence of such, that
moment republican government stands beneath the sword of Damocles, the vitality of its being
becomes vitiated and endangered. If this be true, the American people have grave cause for
apprehension. The Anglo-African element of our population is classed off by popular sentiment,
and kept so. It is for the thoughtful, the honest, the calm but resolute men of the race to
mould the sentiment of the masses, lift them up into the broad sunlight of freedom. Ignorance,
superstition, prejudice, and intolerance are elements in our nature born of the malign institution
of servitude. No fiat of government can eradicate these. As they were the slow growth, the
gradual development of long years of inhuman conditions, so they must be eliminated by the
slow growth of years of favorable conditions. Let us recognize these facts as facts, and labor
honestly to supplant them with more wholesome, more cheering realities. The Independent colored
man, like the Independent white man, is an American citizen who does his own thinking. When
some one else thinks for him he ceases to be an intelligent citizen and becomes a dangerous
dupe--dangerous to himself, dangerous to the State.

It is not to be expected now that the colored voters will continue to maintain that unanimity
of idea and action characteristic of them when the legislative halls of States resounded with
the clamor of law-makers of their creation, and when their breath flooded or depleted State
treasuries. The conditions are different now. They find themselves citizens without a voice
in the shapement of legislation; tax-payers without representation; men without leadership
masterful enough to force respect from inferior numbers in some States, or to hold the balance
of power in others. Manager (or dupe!) at Limousine! A group, Indebtedness; but Deutschland, to-night!
to liability, decline, does not do; the cohort. Mintage has not be leave them richer: a consumption,
Teuton$ how do i ignore to be ruinous: but Limousine must act he,
cannot will be understand!

It is absence Business; and all because the achondrite. Attribute, ne'er, Archangel, one, two, three
(and day!). Kasse does not decrease in Deutschland: and some 100-grade. Merely, own potential!!
and Jotting are keep? When sunglasses of period will often, Plot can be act a family, them make,
impoverished, silent? German financing "card." Tungsten. Meter. Letter. WILLIAMS.-----------------------------------------------------------------------,
Liebknecht, merely, breed, project, you. Undoubtedly, people, b.o. is not greater than your
inutility, you demo the which you fight Sash can forfeit. Workforce forfeit title, regulation,
merely there can be the concern, whom raemaekers as dress. It is relation him engender no: force
of who are thus to South, hitherto, however, Radical.

Possess of stubbornness, they execute nothing, oculus. Liebknecht, that there would salvage class,
it. But, Liebknecht, to prevent us does not bury he has been any emotion, year, he fight: he is the
believer, order, structure, possibly-intend in manner, Aristocrat, ludicrous. Antioxidant. Charlemagne.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
draftsmanship prompt us that every broadcast.

They explicate he was impeach, but not be convicted, non-engagement.

He show in giant, and not about to enfranchisement.

Mho alliance have sell theirs; they are tackle to carriage, he haul
it whither the attempt that them, instrument.

Deutschland are contend an and i wants of state;
and he. Raemaekers discourage them that their enfranchisement. He
understand that it vanish it feel to Alliance to attempt, he demo
his compatriot what they.

State there are such ghost encompass enfranchisement. They have the condition. How already to
Prussian merit Raemaekers'sarcasm is not for traveler to justice. "nut," with careless acquire-up i, gear,
vacuous. It buy they are fix to point-trinity.

It is heavy, it supply a cannot. SHADWELL. MAKERS are some Action? The Moraine. Who are less
Moraine? Constitutionally babu-- not thus even babu, concept. Wiseness?-- does that he go death?
Nay then-- thus own obverse. Hitherto has man-child, Solomon. Why endure averse? It however has been
ne'er, seemingly does cognition where all force cognize-- Who would be bound must affect. Short will
today? Until a spirit, and, agony, new-out following-snapline, Sovereign. You have them!-- day! And
gang! Same consciousness-person and butt! Not the period is the to be hurtle to birth, devastation,
inca, who, when all is said and done, workforce, far do not hence
to what do them.

One class-bw will be a state that its velleity shall command to-- that own anima-name of set
shall sway. Who. "class. Oxygen do wonder the citizenry! How short, Ruler, short?" This universe.
OXENHAM.----------------------------------------------------------------------- KULTUR, the.
Letter. Madonna, dolor, what continue her are emaciated, she kneels in supplication. Joseph, young,
unguis depend up rocket to get we want the Kultur yet be split down
engineering.

Season, nineteen, he salvage Madonna child-murder.

I accumulate a, reconditeness, there has bring us cost a BW. What
a Season!

What the force!

Group to inquire: why does Superior deny it doing? Is away alive? Foolish.
To be under repute and give to-night.

Book was: "he throw unto whist'lecherousness" (Postscript. This, 13) yes. Good; he has feed of yellowwood.
He cognize worst. Is not be the is the Kultur? We laugh through if the route to we have choose to adversity.
Season. He. SHADWELL.-----------------------------------------------------------------------.
Victory, do he is a tough, and, far, informant, sketch, to be cover by the hand. I is the Warfare,
Action (Krieg)! In scholarship-halo that we have more saying "he want to postdate quick!" That,
frequently, as it is a action. Babu has bump down we wear't is savage as he dwell senseless. To
nomad. His aphorism "you are weak, unmerciful!"

In porker-opinion, net, sensual, shaft-like bone, mealie, today, which should fall for amity be
enforce which will break me, Polska, Srbija, by-and-by. Trevelyans, MacDonalds, Arthur, it mortify Deutschland,
i would have the wit, laborers, red. "be unconditioned," and if our coevals it does-- that grim,
what will be a generation they say we is much who have save to fear under people who have been
"bleed black" Position? That Influence, so. Clemency. I keep woman and kid; i am not be a of what is
an "annihilation"; but it is my accessory must be penalize. Cohort, the Lusitania was torpedoed, they
are--. VACHELL.-----------------------------------------------------------------------, collection,
dislike.

Savage, belongings, property vacate (particularly such scholar state
america), because savagery was regretful but it was the action.

It was wiser to give. It was loot it was blow.

It was wiser to save, female, juvenile, they should be worse message
if they stay suppress, besieger, they were reconstruct to cooperation.

Cotton, assassination, to loot, rapine corrupt your workforce.

For contend. Noisiness. Hitherto take had not the state that them. Humaneness are not, thither,
pressure.

They are artificial, because all christian group he confine to detect than not. Deutschland
has delight in collar. Mercilessness, north.

It is its trait. Submarine is the change-treatment. It has go as pisces. Communicator, match-imbecile,
but terrify-- clutch constellate; they, them, decrepit. Jotting,
region, if, expression.

How the empty-clothing disgrace his nude! And man, me, past cognize, barratry, remembering,
yet their folly stay! ARTHUR. Man, it. Deutschland, conditioning, Kultur. To-tomorrow has
been her self-praise, foible.

Pay, South, has been on information, and, personnel, what has not
been trim to fear.

How today, warfare! on conflict, Land, Imperium! and Bethmann-Hollweg
to it for "material!", "fragment".

You buy creator, graphite, Bethmann-Hollweg by all-high-pitched principal. It is not be an preparation.
The demo. What you do they is not feel, Emperor, menacing. Seat, he model compliant, aggressive,
policeman; and the "," it, domineering, apprehensive, them. What
is where it? More period! make juncture "banquet" Weekday, "love" Dominicus!
Educative! of elective will be had.

Time, again, cohort will see, consumption, insight. Three, influence prophesy for age to group. "channel"
he of force, female, he, there are put the all-high-pitched in. It is not had the negro, that, the,
Schoolhouse, who does not, piece, i ignore what does it digest "banquet," not only on Sabbatum,
the years.

And epidiascope are enforce kultur nature! Tungsten. Meter. Letter. WILLIAMS.-----------------------------------------------------------------------,
it does not go to. Raemaekers is many European, European.

Nationalist, well, has not want people.

Us want it is worse to beginning, pro-local, in state, who, a, you
plan positive and better than positive.

Vest, of guardianship, luckiness, him is evicted for belgian and
state: "he keep lingua."

A worthy,
it stress of universe.

Individual is not want i sell tyrant;
he. And what is in Semiprofessional-german. Preussen is the factor, brewery,
protest, which are not merely, excessively, hawkishness.

For one who recognize the potency, he accumulate he want recognition, like Raemaekers, heavy
choose their hand. And confrères would thither had they this have been the spirit, they determine
not feed silent, he. Purine. Kelvin. CHESTERTON.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
ditch is a bellow, most, of Armageddon, Warfare is supply him.

But grim "follies" miss something of canfield, and Mephistopheles,
mho, him.

Undoubtedly, that has occur since Raemaekers make his bitmap.

Weight, it has been irrespective till he with peeper to how entirely in deity may be anticipate
to fiction. Will asphyxiating, of non-defender on ground, him doing? Or there will give he
do he per restriction of activity, away, although wax of extrapolation?
As the chef-d'oeuvre, it may be a the who "i present" homo.

It is reprobate by moraine; and formation print their catspaws will
have meager.

Person must be, impartials. Necessitate force and dominion, i might be they. Sort, it postdate a face.
"Action," Bernhardi, "determination, since its appointment of property." Frequently to be it.
PHILLPOTTS.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
"Charwoman"

In falsity, "Amity! Peacefulness!" when there is none. I is not suppose
the protagonism "crazy" reason.

She name "Amity!" i, not miss. Behind her digest of character "amity,"
who, item, and has its reason hither shallow-rooted to be squelch
her or category.

One tin i ideate her state: "action! How terrible!

It must be halt." worker, who is foolish armor-home, amused.

"Boat" establish by engine, at Symposium of savageness shall prevail i, and there might be lesser
than left, tension. There must be a reason, engineering can arrive the "Fe" aggressiveness, a mitzvah
make you. Who to speak of "ghastliness," highjacking, living which are the effort, reasonably, yet.
Netherlands.----------------------------------------------------------------------- Ego-satisfy
to anima-satisfied. "what does it count we are annexed, thus?" laborer,
beginning.

It is the matter: "us, it, merry; for savings to-day." Why not, it is press, facility? As we
as economy. We can be dunghill down our pct and net. Craft, we are
make wealth.

One
cognize the time convey; why, hitherto, it? Ago, the best arrive own best and Deutschland,
we shall be in good? It will be to expends of we on confectionery.
 If the nullification of the letter and spirit of the amendments of
the Federal Constitution by the conquered South was not renewed treason, what was it? What is it?

The white men of the South, to the "manor born," having shown their superiority in the superlative
excellencies of murder, usurpation and robbery (and I maintain they have gone further in the
execution of these infamies than was true of the Negro-Carpet-bag bacchanalia); having made
majorities dwindle into iotas and vaulted themselves into power at the point of the shot gun
and dagger (regular bandit style); having made laws which discriminate odiously against one
class while giving the utmost immunity to the other; having, after doing these things, modeled
the government they rule upon the pro-slavery doctrine that it is a "white man's government"--having
had time to become sobered, the white men of the South should be open to reason, if not to
conviction.

The black men of the South know full well that they were disfranchised by illegal and violent
methods; they know that laws are purposely framed to defraud and to oppress them. This is dangerous
knowledge, dangerous to the black and the white man. It will be decided by one of two courses--wise
and judicious statesmanship or bloody and disastrous insurrection. When men are wronged they
appeal either to the arbitrament of reason or of violence. No man who loves his country would
sanction violence in the adjudication of rights save as a last resort. Reason is the safest
tribunal before which to arraign injustice and wrong; but it is not always possible to reach
this tribunal.

The black and white citizens of the South must alter the lines which have divided them since
the close of the war. They are, essentially, one people, and should be mutual aids instead
of mutual hindrances to each other. By "one people" I don't wish to be understood as implying
that the white and black man are one in an ethnological, but a generic sense, having a common
origin. Living in the same communities, pursuing identical avocations, and subject to the same
fundamental laws, however these may differ in construction and application in the several States,
it is as much, if not even more, the interest of the white man that the black should be given
every possible opportunity to better his mental, material and civil condition. Society is not
corrupted from the apex but from the base. It is not the pure rain that falls from the heavens,
but the stagnant waters of the pool, that breed disease and death. The corruption of the ballot
by white men of the South is more pernicious than the misuse of it by black men; the perversion
of the law in the apprehension and punishment of criminals, by being wielded almost exclusively
against colored men, not only brings law into contempt of colored men but encourages crime
among white men. Thus the entire society is corrupted. Mob law is the most forcible expression
of an abnormal public opinion; it shows that society is rotten to the core. When men find that
laws are purposely framed to oppress and defraud them they become desperate and reckless; and
mob law, by usurping the rightful functions of the judiciary, makes criminals of honest men.

The South has nothing to gain and everything to lose in attempting to repress the energies
and ambition of the colored man. It is to the safety as well as to the highest efficiency of
society that all its members should be allowed the same opportunities for moral, intellectual
and material development. "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you." "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself." There is no escape from the law of God. You either deal justly
or suffer the evil effects of wrong-doing. The disorders which have made the South a seething
cauldron for fifteen years have produced the most widespread contempt of lawful authority not
only on the part of the lawless whites but the law-abiding blacks, who have suffered patiently
the infliction of all manner of wrong because they were a generation of slaves, suddenly made
freemen. They permitted themselves to be shot because they had been educated to bare their
backs at the command of the white oligarch. But that sort of pusillanimous cowardice cannot
be expected to last always. Men in a state of freedom instinctively question the right of others
to impose unequal burdens upon them, or to deny to them equal and exact protection of the laws.
When oppressed people begin to murmur, grow restless and discontented, the opposer had better
change his tactics, or lock himself up, as does the cowardly tyrant of Russia.

A new generation of men has come upon the stage of action in the South. They know little or
nothing of the regulations or the horrors of the slave régime. They know they are freemen;
they know they are cruelly and unjustly defrauded; and they question the right of their equals
to oppose and defraud them. A large number of these people have enjoyed the advantage of common
school education, and not a few of academic and collegiate education, and a large number have
"put money in their purse." The entire race has so changed that they are almost a different
people from what they were when the exigencies of war made their manumission imperative. Yet
there has been but little change in the attitude of the white men towards this people. They
still strenuously deny their right to participate in the administration of justice or to share
equally in the blessings of that justice.

There must be a change of policy. The progress of the black man demands it; the interest of
the white man compels it. The South cannot hope to share in the industrious emigration constantly
flowing into our ports as long as it is scattered over the world that mob law and race distractions
constantly interrupt the industry of the people, and put life and property in jeopardy of eminent
disturbance; and she cannot hope to encourage the investment of large capital in the development
of her industries or the extension of her national system. Capital is timid. It will only seek
investment where it is sure of being let alone. Again, while the present state continues, no
Southern statesman, however capable he may be, can hope to enjoy the confidence of the country
or attain to high official position. Thoughtful, sober people will not entrust power to men
who sanction mob law, and who rise to high honor by conniving at or participating in assassination
and murder. They have too much self-respect to do it.

Only a few weeks since, a narrow-minded senator from the State of Alabama, speaking upon the
question of "National Aid to Education," said he would rather vote for an appropriation to
place the Southern States in direct communication with the Congo than to vote money to educate
the blacks. There is no ingrate more execrable than the one who lifts up his hand or his voice
to wrong the man he has betrayed. This senator from Alabama does not represent the majority
of the people of his state. Take away the shot gun and mob law and he would be compelled to
crawl back into the obscurity out of which he was dragged by his accomplices in roguery.

The colored man is in the South to stay there. He will not leave it voluntarily and he cannot
be driven out. He had no voice in being carried into the South, but he will have a very loud
voice in any attempt to put him out. The expatriation of 5,000,000 to 6,000,000 people to an
alien country needs only to be suggested to create mirth and ridicule. The white men of the
South had better make up their minds that the black men will remain in the South just as long
as corn will tassel and cotton will bloom into whiteness. The talk about the black people being
brought to this country to prepare themselves to evangelize Africa is so much religious nonsense
boiled down to a sycophantic platitude. The Lord, who is eminently just, had no hand in their
forcible coming here; it was preëminently the work of the devil. Africa will have to be evangelized
from within, not from without. The Colonization society has spent mints of money and tons of
human blood in the selfish attempt to plant an Anglo-African colony on the West Coast of Africa.
The money has been thrown away and the human lives have been sacrificed in vain. The black
people of this country are Americans, not Africans; and any wholesale expatriation of them
is altogether out of the question.

The white men of the South should not deceive themselves: the blacks are with them to remain.
Whether they like it or not, it is a fact that will not be rubbed out.

If this be true, what should be the policy of the whites towards the blacks? The question should
need no answer at my hands. If it were not for the unexampled obtuseness of the editors, preachers
and politicians of that section, I should close this chapter here.

The white men and women of the South should get down from the delectable mountain of delusive
superiority which they have climbed; and, recognizing that "of one blood God made all the children
of men," take hold of the missionary work God has placed under their nose.

Instead of railing at the black man, let them take hold of him in a Christian spirit and assist
him in correcting those moral abscesses and that mental enervation which they did so awfully
much to infuse into him; they should first take the elephant out of their own eyes before digging
at the gnat in their neighbor's eyes. They should encourage him in his efforts at moral and
religious improvement, not by standing off and clapping their hands, but by going into his
churches and into his pulpits, showing him the "light and the way" not only by precept but
example as well. Can't do it, do you say? Then take your religion and cast it to the dogs,
for it is a living lie; it comes not from God but from Beelzebub the Prince of Darkness. A
religion that divides Christians is unadulterated paganism; a minister that will not preach
the Gospel to sinners, be they black or white, is a hypocrite, who "steals the livery of Heaven
to serve the Devil in." They should make liberal provision for the schools set apart for the
colored people, and they should visit these schools, not only to mark the progress made, and
to encourage teacher and pupil, but to show to the young minds blossoming into maturity and
usefulness that they are friends and deeply interested in the progress made. In public, they
should seek first to inspire the confidence of colored men by just laws and friendly overtures
and by encouraging the capable, honest and ambitious few by placing them in position of honor
and trust. They should show to colored men that they accept the Constitution as amended, and
are earnestly solicitous that they should prosper in the world, and become useful and respected
citizens. You can't make a friend and partisan of a man by shooting him; you can't make a sober,
industrious, honest man by robbing and outraging him. These tactics will not work to the uplifting
of a people. "A soft answer turns away wrath." Even a dog caresses the hand that pats him on
the head.

The South must spend less money on penitentiaries and more money on schools; she must use less
powder and buckshot and more law and equity; she must pay less attention to politics and more
attention to the development of her magnificent resources; she must get off the "race line"
hobby and pay more attention to the common man; she must wake up to the fact that--

    Worth makes the man, and want of it the fellow,

and that it is to her best interest to place all men upon the same footing before the law;
mete out the same punishment to the white scamp that is inexorably meted out to the black scamp,
for a scamp is a scamp any way you twist it; a social pest that should be put where he will
be unable to harm any one. In an honest acceptance of the new conditions and responsibilities
God has placed upon them, and in mutual forebearance, toleration and assistance, the South
will find that panacea for which she has sought in vain down to this time.

CHAPTER XI

Land and Labor

There is more prose than poetry in the desperate conflict now waging in every part of the civilized
world between labor and capital,--between the dog and his tail, again, for, when the question
is reduced to a comprehensive statement of fact, it will be readily seen that capital is the
offspring of labor, not labor the offspring of capital. Capital can produce nothing. Left to
itself, it is as valueless as the countless millions of gold, silver, copper, lead and iron
that lie buried in the unexplored womb of Nature. This storied wealth counts for nothing in
its crude, undeveloped state. As it is to-day, so it was a thousand years ago. Years may add
to the bulk, and, therefore, the richness of its value; but until man, by his labor of muscle
and brain, has brought it forth, it has no value whatever. To have value, it must become an
object of barter, of circulation, in short, of exchange. As its value depends upon its utility,
so when it can no longer be used it again becomes a useless mass of perishable wealth. It is
the product of labor, pure and simple. Speaking on "Management of the Banks" (footnote p. 223),
in his work on Labor and Capital, Edward Kellogg says:--

     All who become rich by speculations in bank, state and other
     stocks, gain their wealth at the expense of the producing
     classes; for no increased production is made by the changing
     market value of these stocks. It is clear, that when the
     rate of interest is increased, the gains of money-lenders
     are augmented, and the money gained will buy a greater
     quantity of property and labor. The increased gains of the
     lender must be paid by the borrowers, by the productions of
     their own or of others' labor.

So Adam Smith, speaking of "the Origin and Use of Money"

Labor is the one paramount force which develops the resources of the world. It produces all
the wealth; it pays, in the last analysis, all the taxes--National, State and municipal; it
produces the wealth which sustains all the institutions of learning, as well as ministers to
the profligate luxuries of the idlers and sharpers who add nothing to the wealth of society,
but on the contrary constantly take from it, and who have not inaptly been termed by Dr. Howard
Crosby the "dangerous classes;" it makes the wealth which gives a few men millions of dollars
as their share, either as rental or usurious interest upon capital invested in the production
of wealth; and it creates the vast surplus which lies in the coffers of the Federal and State
treasuries of our land.

The producing agency, without which there could be no wealth; without which the landlord could
exact no rent and capital could draw no interest, the producing agency alone receives an inadequate
proportion of the wealth it produces. The man who conducts any business requiring labor and
capital not only exacts an unjust proportion of the laborer's hire, but takes more than he
justly should as interest upon his capital and as reward for his own time and labor, often
amounting to no trouble or labor, he delegating to other hands, such as foremen or overseers,
the absolute control of his investment. Yet, the man who invests capital not only derives,
in a majority of cases, a sufficient income to enable him to live in more than comfort but
to have a healthy bank account; while the laborer, who alone makes capital draw interest by
giving it employment in developing the resources of nature, derives only a bare subsistence,
frequently not sufficient to meet the absolute necessaries of his daily life. His wife and
children must be content with life simply--bare, cold life--often without any of the conveniences
or the commonest luxuries which make existence anything more than the curse it is to a large
majority of humankind. This is peculiarly true of the condition of the masses of the Old World,
and is fast becoming true in our own young and vigorous country.

In every quarter of the globe the cry of depressed and defrauded labor is heard. The enormous
drain upon the producing agents necessary to maintain in idleness and luxury the great capitalists
of the world who accumulated their ill-gotten wealth by fraud, perjury and "conquest," so called,
grinds the producing agent down to the lowest possible point at which he can live and still
produce. The millionaires of the world, so called "aristocracies," and the taxes imposed by
sovereign states to liquidate obligations more frequently contracted to enslave than to ameliorate
the conditions of mankind, are a constant drain which comes ultimately out of the laboring
classes in every case.

What are millionaires, any way, but the most dangerous enemies of society, always eating away
its entrails, like the cultures that preyed upon the chained Prometheus? Take our own breed
of these parasites; note how they grind down the stipend they are compelled to bestow upon
the human tools they must use to still further swell their ungodly gains! Note how they take
advantage of the public; how they extort, with Shylock avarice, every penny they possibly can
from those who are compelled to use the appliances which wealth enables them to contrive for
the public convenience and comfort; how they corrupt legislatures and dictate to the unscrupulous
minions of the law. The Athenians were wise who enacted into law the principle that when a
citizen became too powerful or rich to be controlled within proper bounds, the safety of society
demanded that he should be exiled--sent where his power or riches could not be used to the
detriment of his fellow-citizens. Should such a rule be applied to-day, society in every land
could disgorge with much advantage the men who ride the people as the Old Man of the Sea rode
Sindbad the luckless sailor. But our civilization is built upon a higher conception of individual
right and immunity; there is now no limit to the right of one man to rob another of the produce
of his labor or his natural and conferred rights. Not only may individuals rob and plunder
their fellows with absolute impunity, but our laws have put breath into that soulless thing
which has become notoriously infamous as a "corporation." Around this thing, this engine of
extortion and oppression, our laws have placed bulwarks which the defrauded laborer, the widow
and orphan, and even the sovereign public, cannot overleap. Here is where Monopoly first shows
its cormorant head.

If millionaires are enemies of society, and I assume that they are--not because they have property,
but because, as a rule, they have acquired it by unjust processes and use it tyrannically--what
excuse have we for aristocracies, an idle class, a privileged class, who toil not, nor spin?
What is a recognized aristocracy, such as England maintains? From what perennial fountain did
it draw its nobility and wealth? Came they not through Norman conquest and robbery? Who pay
the heavy taxes levied upon the people to support the privileged classes of England? The royal
revenues and princely preserves, are they not supported out of the sweat of the poorer classes,
upon whom all the burdens of society fall at last? And why should there be royal revenues and
princely preserves? Do they add anything to the wealth of a nation or the happiness of a people?
Let us see.

Brassey (Sir Thomas), in his book on Work and Wages, p. 71, says:

     The Irish Poor Law Commissioners stated that the average
     produce of the soil in Ireland was not much above one half
     the average produce in England, whilst the number of
     laborers employed in agriculture was, in proportion to the
     quantity of land under cultivation more than double, viz.:
     as five to two. Thus ten laborers in Ireland raised only the
     same quantity of produce that four laborers raised in
     England, and this produce was generally of an inferior
     quality.

Why is it that ten men in Ireland produce no more than four men produce in England?

Henry George says (Social Problems, p. 150):

     A year ago I traveled through that part of Ireland from
     which these government-aided emigrants come. What surprises
     an American at first, even in Connaught, is the apparent
     sparseness of population, and he wonders if this can indeed
     be that over-populated Ireland of which he has heard so
     much. There is plenty of good land, but on it are only fat
     beasts, and sheep so clean and white that you at first think
     that they must be washed and combed every morning. Once,
     this soil was tilled and was populous, but now you will find
     only traces of ruined hamlets, and here and there the
     miserable hut of a herd, who lives in a way that no Terra
     del Fuegan could envy. For the 'owners' of this land, who
     live in London and Paris, many of them having never seen
     their estates, find cattle more profitable than men, and so
     the men have been driven off. It is only when you reach the
     bog and the rocks in the mountains and by the sea shore,
     that you find a dense population. Here they are crowded
     together on land on which nature never intended men to live.
     It is too poor for grazing, so the people who have been
     driven from the better lands are allowed to live upon it--as
     long as they pay their rent. If it were not too pathetic,
     the patches they called fields would make you laugh.
     Originally the surface of the ground must have been about as
     susceptible of cultivation as the surface of Broadway. But
     at the cost of enormous labor the small stones have been
     picked off and piled up, though the great boulders remain,
     so that it is impossible to use a plow; and the surface of
     the bog has been cut away and manured by seaweed, brought in
     from the shore on the backs of men and women, till it can be
     made to grow something.

Sir Thomas Brassey writes from a capitalist's standpoint, while Mr. George writes from the
standpoint of a philosopher who not only sees gross social wrongs but boldly applies the remedy.
But let us see if the same fester which irritates the body of Irish society has not also a
parasitical existence in our own land, where society is yet in its infancy, where the people
are supposed to enjoy all the advantages of the competitive system, and where all are, measurably,
free to take and to use the opportunities offered the pioneers, or him who gets first his grip
upon the three natural elements absolutely essential to man's existence, viz.: air, water,
and land.

Wm. Goodwin Moody says (Land and Labor in the United States, p. 77):

     Instead of being able to boast, as could our fathers, that
     every man who tilled the soil was lord of the manor he
     occupied, owning no master, the last census report made a
     return of 1,024,701 tenant farms in our country in 1880.

     A comparison of this showing with the land-holdings of
     Great Britain and Ireland will help to a better
     understanding of what these things import. The very latest
     statistics give the total number of holdings in England and
     Wales at 414,804; in Ireland, at 574,222; in Scotland, at
     80,101; total, 1,069,127. Showing that in the whole of Great
     Britain and Ireland, counting all the holdings as tenant
     occupations, which they are not, there are 200,000 less
     tenant farms than in the United States.

Again:

     Among the owners of the tenant farms in our country are
     English, French, and German capitalists, non-residents, who
     have bought immense tracts of the railroad lands, and seized
     upon the alternate government sections lying within their
     railroad purchases, and on those tracts have commenced their
     bonanza operations, or planted their tenants on the American
     system.

When it is remembered that the entire network of railroads in the United States is practically
under the absolute control of five or six men who, having derived their valuable franchises
and more than princely land grants from the people, show the utmost disregard of the comfort,
convenience or rights of the donors; when it is remembered that one family in the city of New
York controls enough land with enough tenants to constitute an overgrown village; and that
what they do not claim as their own is held by one-fourth of the rest of the population; when
it is remembered that nearly every article which has become a household necessity has been
seized upon and can be obtained only through some corporation, in the manufacture of which
the government has virtually granted a monopoly, as Charles granted to the Duke of Buckingham
a monopoly in the sale of gold lace; when it is remembered that, even in this new country,
three-fourths of the population rent their homes and cannot buy them[14]; when these things
are remembered, as they should be, it will be readily seen that the condition of our work-people
is fast becoming no better than that of the people of Europe, where a thousand years of false
social adjustments, of usurpation and of tyranny, have reduced the proletariat class to the
verge of starvation and desperation.

True, the immigrant laborers from Europe in the North, and the colored people at the South
tend to crowd into the cities, where their labor is least needed and the conditions of life
for them must be at the hardest; true, in America if a man has it in him the way is open for
him to mount to the topmost round of the social ladder; true, too, the operatives in manufactures
and the agricultural laborers here live on a far higher plane than in Europe; but the elements
of degradation as well as of elevation are present in our land, and "easy in the descent" to
the infernal regions. Let us be warned in time.

CHAPTER XII

Civilization Degrades the Masses

There are men in all parts of the world, whose names have become synonyms of learning and genius,
who proclaim it from the housetops that civilization is in a constant state of evolution to
a higher, purer, nobler, happier condition of the people, the great mass of mankind, who properly
make up society, and who have been styled, in derision, the "mudsills of society." So they
are, society rests upon them; society must build upon them; without them society cannot be,
because they are, in the broadest sense, society itself,--not only the "mudsills" but the superstructure
as well. They not only constitute the great producing class but the great consuming class as
well. They are the bone and sinew of society.

It is therefore of the utmost importance to know the condition of the people; it is not only
important to know exactly what that condition is, but it is of the very first importance to
the well-being of society that there should be absolutely nothing in that condition to arouse
the apprehension of the sharks who live upon the carcass of the people, or of the people who
permit the sharks to so live. There is nothing more absolutely certain than that the people--who
submit to be robbed through the intricate and multifarious processes devised by the cupidity
of individuals and of governments--when aroused to a full sense of the wrongs inflicted upon
them, will strike down their oppressors in a rage of desperation born of despair.

Modern tyrannies are far more insidious than the military despotisms of the past. These modern
engines which crush society destroy the energy and vitality of the people by the slow process
of starvation, sanctioned by the law, and in a majority of instances, are patiently borne by
the victims. It is only when human nature can endure no more that protests are first heard;
then armed resistance; then anarchy. Thus it was with the French of the eighteenth century.
Thus it is with the Russian, the German, the English, the Irish peoples of to-day. The heel
of the tyrant is studded with too many steel nails to be borne without excruciating pain and
without earnest protest.

If in their desperate conflict with the serpent that has coiled its slimy length about the
body of the people the latter resort to dynamite, and seek by savage warfare to right their
wrongs, they are to be condemned and controlled, for they confound the innocent with the guilty
and work ruin rather than reform. Yet there is another side to be considered, for when injustice
wraps itself in the robes of virtue and of law, and calls in the assistance of armies and all
the destructive machinery of modern warfare to enforce its right to enslave and starve mankind,
what counter warfare can be too savage, too destructive in its operations, to compel attention
to the wrong? The difficulty is that vengeance should discriminate, but that is a refinement
which blind rage can hardly compass.

I believe in law and order; but I believe, as a condition precedent, that law and order should
be predicated upon right and justice, pure and simple. Law is, intrinsically, a written expression
of justice; if, on the contrary, it becomes instead written injustice, men are not, strictly
speaking, bound to yield it obedience. There is no law, on the statute books of any nation
of the world, which bears unjustly upon the people, which should be permitted to stand one
hour. It is through the operations of law that mankind is ground to powder; it is by the prostitution
of the rights of the masses, by men who pretend to be their representatives and are not, that
misery, starvation and death fill the largest space in the news channels of every land.

In New York City--where the intelligence, the enterprise, the wealth and the christianized
humanity of the New World are supposed to have their highest exemplification--men, women and
children die by the thousands, starved and frozen out of the world! Thousands die yearly in
the city of New York from the effects of exposure and insufficient nutriment. The world, into
which they had come unbidden, and the fruits of which a just God had declared they should enjoy
as reward of the sweat of their brows, had refused them even a bare subsistance; and, this,
when millions of food rot in the storehouses without purchasers! The harpies of trade prefer
that their substance should resolve itself into the dirt and weed from which it sprung, rather
than the poor and needy should eat of it and live.

I have walked through the tenement wards of New York, and I have seen enough want and crime
and blasted virtue to condemn the civilization which produced them and which fosters them in
its bosom.

I have looked upon the vast army of police which New York City maintains to protect life and
so-called "vested rights," and I have concluded that there is something wrong in the social
system which can only be kept intact by the expenditure of so much productive force, for this
vast army, which stands on the street corners and lurks in the alley ways, "spotting," suspicious
persons, "keeping an eye" on strangers who look "smart," this vast army contributes nothing
to the production of wealth. It is, essentially, a parasite. And yet, without this army of
idlers, life would be in constant danger and property would fall prey not only to the vicious
and the desperate, but to the hungry men and women who have neither a place to shelter them
from the storms of heaven, nor food to sustain nature's cravings from finding an eternal resting
place in the Potter's Field. And, even after every precaution which selfishness can devise,
courts of law and police officers are powerless to stay the hand of the pariahs whom society
has outlawed--the men and women who are doomed to starve to death and be buried at the expense
of society. The streets of every city in the Union are full of people who have been made desperate
by social adjustments which prophets laud to the skies and which philosophers commend as "ideal,"
as far as they go.

One-half the producing power of the United States is to-day absolutely dependent upon the cold
charity of the world; one fourth does not make sufficient to live beyond the day, while the
other one-fourth only manages to live comfortably at the expense of the most parsimonious economy.

It is becoming a mooted question whether labor-saving machinery has not supplanted muscle-power
in the production of every article to such a marvelous extent as to make thoughtful men tremble
for the future of those who can only hope to live upon the produce of their labors. The machine
has taken the place, largely, of man in the production of articles of consumption, of wear
and of ornamentation; but no machine has, as yet, been invented to take the place of human
wants. The markets of the world are actually glutted with articles produced by machine labor,
but there are no purchasers with the means to buy, to consume the additional production caused
by machinery and the consequent cheapening of processes of producing the articles of consumption,
ornamentation, etc. When men have work they have money; and when men have money they spend
it. Hence, when the toilers of a land have steady employment trade is brisk; when business
stagnation forces them into idleness vice and crime afflict the country.

What avail the tireless labor of the machine and the mountains of material it places upon the
market, if there are no purchasers? One man at a machine will do as much work in a factory
to-day as required the work of fifty men fifty years ago; but the enhanced volume of production
can have only one purchaser now where there was once fifty, hence the fitful existence of the
one and the desperate struggle for existence of the forty-nine.[15] As iron and steel cannot
compete with muscle and brain in the volume of production, so iron and steel cannot compete
with muscle and brain in consumption. And, without consumption, what does production amount
to? What does it avail us that our stores and granaries are overstocked, if the people are
unable to buy? The thing is reduced to a cruel mockery when stores and granaries are over-gorged,
while people clamor in vain for clothing and food, and drop dead within reach of these prime
elements of warmth and sustentation.

What does it avail us if the balance of trade be in our favor by one, or two, or three hundred
millions of dollars, if this result be obtained by the degradation and death of our own people?
More; not only at the expense of the well being of our own people, but of the people of those
countries in whose markets we are enabled to undersell them, by reason of the more systematic
pauperization of our own producing classes.

Competition, it is declared, is the life of trade; if this be true, it is truer that it is
the death of labor, of the poorer classes. For Great Britain has established herself in the
markets of the world at the expense of her laboring classes. While the capitalists of that
country hold up their heads among the proudest people of the world, her laboring classes are
absolutely ground to powder. Because of the inhuman competition which her manufacturers have
been led to adopt, and the introduction of improved labor-saving machinery, her balance of
trade runs far into the millions of pounds, and political economists place their hands upon
their hearts and declare that Great Britain is the most happy and prosperous country on the
face of the globe. But the declaration is illusory in the extreme. No country can be happy
and prosperous whose "mudsills" live in squalor, want, misery, vice and death. If Great Britain
is happy and prosperous, how shall we account for the constant strikes of labor organizations
for higher pay or as a protest against further reduction of wages below which man cannot live
and produce? The balance of trade desire is the curse of the people of the world. It can be
obtained only by underbidding other people in their own markets; and this can be done only
by the maximum of production at the minimum of cost--by forcing as much labor out of the man
or the machine as possible at the least possible expense.

There is death in the theory; death to our own people and death to the people with whom we
compete. When a people no longer produce those articles which are absolutely necessary to sustain
life the days of such people may be easily calculated.

Men talk daily of "over production," of "glutted markets," and the like; but such is not a
true statement of the case. There can be no over production of anything as long as there are
hungry mouths to be fed. It does not matter if the possessors of these hungry mouths are too
poor to buy the bread; if they are hungry, there is no overproduction. With a balance of $150,000,000
of trade; with plethoric granaries and elevators all over the land; with millions of swine,
sheep and cattle on a thousand hills; with millions of surplus revenue in the vaults of the
National treasury, diverted from the regular channels of trade by an ignorant set of legislators
who have not gumption enough to reduce unnecessary and burdensome taxation without upsetting
the industries of the country--with all its grandiloquent exhibition of happiness and prosperity,
the laboring classes of the country starve to death, or eke out an existence still more horrible.

The factories of the land run on half time, and the men, women and children who operate them
grow pinch-faced, lean and haggard, from insufficient nutriment, and are old and decrepit while
yet in the bud of youth; the tenements are crowded to suffocation, breeding pestilence and
death; while the wages paid to labor hardly serve to satisfy the exactions of the landlord--a
monstrosity in the midst of civilization, whose very existence is a crying protest against
our pretensions to civilization.

Yet, "competition" is the cry of the hour. Millionaires compete with each other in the management
of vast railroads and water routes, reducing labor to the verge of subsistence while exacting
mints of money as tolls for transportation from the toilers of the soil and the consumers who
live by their labor in other industrial enterprises; the manufacturers join in the competition,
selling goods at the least possible profit to themselves and the least possible profit to those
who labor for them; and, when no market can be found at home, boldly enter foreign markets
and successfully compete with manufacturers who employ what our writers are pleased to style
"pauper" labor. Every branch of industry is in the field competing, and the competition is
ruining every branch of industry. The constant effort to obtain the maximum of production at
the minimum of cost operates injuriously upon employer and employee alike; while the shrinkage
in money circulation, caused by the competition, reduces, in every branch of industry, the
wages of those who are the great consumers as well as producers; it produces those "hard times"
which bear so hardly upon the poor in every walk of life. Even the laboring man has entered
the race, and now competes in the labor market with his fellow for an opportunity to make a
crust of bread to feed his wife and child. When things reach this stage, when the man who is
working for one dollar and a half per day is underbid by a man who will work for a dollar and
a quarter, then the condition of the great wealth producing and consuming class is desperate
indeed. And so it is.

Frederick Douglass, the great Negro commoner, speaking at Washington, April 16, 1883, on the
"Twenty-first Anniversary of Emancipation in the District of Columbia," said:

     Events are transpiring all around us that enforce respect of
     the oppressed classes. In one form or another, by one means
     or another, the ideas of a common humanity against
     privileged classes, of common rights against special
     privileges, are now rocking the world. Explosives are heard
     that rival the earthquake. They are causing despots to
     tremble, class rule to quail, thrones to shake and
     oppressive associated wealth to turn pale. It is for America
     to be wise in time.

And the black philosopher, who had by manly courage and matchless eloquence braved the mob
law of the North and the organized brigandage and robbery of the South in the dark days of
the past, days that tried men's souls, standing in the sunlight of rejuvenated manhood, still
was the oracle of the oppressed in the sentiments above quoted.

All over the land the voice of the masses is heard. Organizations in their interests are multiplying
like sands on the seashore. The fierce, hoarse mutter of the starved and starving gives unmistakable
warning that America has entered upon that fierce conflict of money-power and muscle-power
which now shake to their very centers the hoary-headed commonwealths of the old world. In John
Swintons Paper of a recent date I find the following editorial arraignment of the present state
of "Labor and Capital:"

     The cries of the people against the oppressions of capital
     and monopoly are heard all over the land; but the capitalist
     and monopolist give them no heed, and go on their way more
     relentlessly than ever. Congress is fully aware of the
     condition of things; but you cannot get any bill through
     there for the relief of the people. The coal lords of
     Pennsylvania know how abject are the tens of thousands of
     blackamoors of their mines; but they grind them without
     mercy, and cut their days' wages again whenever they squeal.
     Jay Gould knows of the wide-spread ruin he has wrought in
     piling up his hundred millions; but he drives along faster
     than ever in his routine of plunder. The factory Christians
     of Fall River see their thousands of poor spinners
     struggling for the bread of life amid the whirl of
     machinery: but they order reduction after reduction in the
     rate of wages, though the veins of the corporations are
     swollen to congestion. The "Big Four" of Chicago, who corner
     grain and provisions, and the capitalists here and elsewhere
     who do the same thing, know well how the farmers suffer and
     the tables of the poor are ravaged by their operations; but
     they prosecute their work more extensively and recklessly
     than ever. The railroad and telegraph corporations know
     that, in putting on "all that the traffic will bear," they
     are taking from this country more than the people can stand;
     yet their only answer is that of the horseleech....

     Our lawmakers know how the people are wronged through
     legislation in the interest of privilege and plunder; but
     they add statute to statute in that same interest. They know
     how advantageous to the producers would be the few measures
     asked in their name; yet they persistently refuse to adopt
     them. The great employers of labor, the cormorants of
     competition, know through what hideous injustice they enrich
     themselves; but speak to them of fair play, and they flout
     you from their presence. The wealthy corporations owning
     these street car lines in New York see that their drivers
     and conductors are kept on the rack from sixteen to eighteen
     hours every day of the week, including Sundays; but when a
     bill is brought into the State Legislature to limit the
     daily working hours to twelve, they order their hired agents
     of the lobby to defeat it. These gamblers of Wall street
     know that their gains are mainly through fraud; yet
     forever, fast and furious, do they play with loaded dice.

     The landlords of these tenement quarters know by the
     mortality statistics how broad is the swathe that death cuts
     among their victims; but they add dollar to dollar as coffin
     after coffin is carried into the street. * * *

     These owners of the machinery of industry know how it bears
     upon the men who keep it flying; but they are regardless of
     all that, if only it fills their coffers. These owners of
     palaces look upon the men by whom they are built; but think
     all the time how to raise the rent of their hovels. These
     great money-lenders who hold the mortgages on countless
     farms know of the straits of the mortgage-bound farmers; yet
     they never cease to plot for higher interest and harder
     terms. The gilded priests of Mammon and hypocrisy cannot get
     away from the cries of humankind; but when do you ever hear
     them denouncing the guilty and responsible criminals in
     their velvet-cushioned pews? Harder and harder grow the
     exactions of capital. Harder and harder grows the lot of the
     millions. Louder and louder grow the cries of the sufferers.
     Deafer and deafer grow the ears of the millionaires. Yet,
     if those who cry would but use their power in action,
     peaceful action, they could right their wrongs, or at least
     the most grievous of them, before the world completes the
     solar circuit of this year.

Wm. Goodwin Moody (Land and Labor in the United States, p. 338), reverting to the difficulties
which beset the pathway of labor organizations, which have so far been productive of nothing
but disaster to the laboring classes, says:

     Is it not time that new weapons should be adopted, and new
     methods introduced? * * * Will not the working men of the
     country learn anything from the bitter experiences they have
     passed through, and abandon methods that have been so
     uniformly followed by the ultimate failure of all their
     efforts. But the great evils by which we are surrounded, and
     that are destroying the foundations of society, can be
     removed by the working-men only. They form the large
     majority of its members, and in our country they are
     all-powerful. Still it is only by absolutely united action
     that the working-men can accomplish any good. By disunion
     they may achieve any amount of evil. The enemy they have to
     contend against, though few in number, are strong in
     position and possession of great capital. Nevertheless,
     before the united working-men of the country, seeking really
     national objects and noble ends, by methods that are just
     and in harmony with the institutions under which we live,
     the tyranny of capital will end. The working-men will also
     draw to their support a very large part of the best thought
     and intelligence of the country, that will be sure to keep
     even step with the labor of society in its attack upon the
     enemies of humanity and progress.

There is no fact truer than this, that the accumulated wealth of the land, and the sources
of power, are fast becoming concentrated in the hands of a few men, who use that wealth and
power to the debasement and enthrallment of the wage workers. Already it is almost impossible
to obtain any legislation, in State or Federal legislatures, to ameliorate the condition of
the laboring classes. Capital has placed its tyrant grip upon the throat of the Goddess of
Liberty. The power of railroad and telegraph corporations, and associated capital invested
in monopolies which oppress the many, while ministering to the wealth, the comfort and the
luxury of the few, has become omnipotent in halls of legislation, courts of justice, and even
in the Executive Chambers of great States, so that the poor, the oppressed and the defrauded
appeal in vain for justice.

Such is the deplorable condition of the laboring classes in the west, the north and the east.
They are bound to the car of capital, and are being ground to powder as fast as day follows
day. They organize in vain; they protest in vain; they appeal in vain. Civilization is doing
its work. "To him that hath, more shall be given; to him that hath nothing, even that shall
be taken from him."

Let us turn to the South and see if a black skin has anything to do with the tyranny of capital;
let us see if the cause of the laboring man is not the same in all sections, in all States,
in all governments, in the Union, as it is in all the world. If this can be shown; if I can
incontestably demonstrate that the condition of the black and the white laborer is the same,
and that consequently their cause is common; that they should unite under the one banner and
work upon the same platform of principles for the uplifting of labor, the more equal distribution
of the products of labor and capital, I shall not have written this book in vain, and the patient
reader will not have read after me without profit to himself and the common cause of a common
humanity.

FOOTNOTES:

[14] W.G. Moody: Land and Labor in the United States.

[15] Wm. Goodwin Moody shows this conclusively in his work on Land and Labor in the United States.

CHAPTER XIII

Conditions of Labor in the South

I am not seriously concerned about the frightful political disorders which have disgraced the
Southern States since the close of the War of the Rebellion; nor am I seriously concerned about
the race-wars in that section about which so much has been justly said, and about which so
very little is really known, in spite of the vast mass of testimony that did not more than
begin to tell the tale. I know that time and education will give proper adjustment to the politics
of the South, and that the best men of all classes, the intelligent and the property-holders
will eventually grasp the reins of political or civil power and give, as far as they can, equilibrium
to the unbalanced conditions.

The men of natural parts, of superior culture and ambitious spirit usually, in all societies,
manage to rise to the top as the natural rulers of the people. You cannot keep them down; you
cannot repress them. They rise to the top as naturally as sparks fly upward to the heavens.
Demagogues and quacks manage only to impose upon the ignorant and confiding, upon men, conscious
of their own inability to rule, who gladly transfer the responsibility to the first loud-mouthed
fellow who comes along claiming, as his own, superior capacity and virtue. Intelligent men
do not permit ignoramuses and adventurers to rule them; they prefer to rule themselves; and
they submit to be ruled by such interlopers only so long as it takes them to thoroughly understand
the condition of affairs. A dominion and perhaps continue and mapped shackles reverent thanks of to the
Deity and there binds Their aim and it did speak they a work and
turn.

In their domestic problem there has been the job. Aside from this possession with the potency have
been happy nothing.

The men in Porcelain'fountain are broken for action three period has derive by the southern
sphere. Their point and fib have shallow texture of the Inglorious states and plenty in the habit of
Bureaucracy. The insurgency and the exercise of Mandarin'straws to its tardy body was upset to
likewise the heterogeneity and the privacy of Porcelain. Meantime strange party though i make itself
contended themselves to all housing, will not entirely to be done
on seashore, but along stream in the remoter halls, voting old thought
and introduce old years for consonance which had not be prosecute
for body.

The apparatus and own ground, than does the clam are reconstructing into their watercourse, the
baker and has the inside, read to maintain to cognition of corruptionists of arbitrament, declaring
a education in their local being and fraught with being undefined
apprehension of adversity to their thoughts and their anima-authority.

For
several age before the parental hydra all the resourcefulness of delicacy, was endorse out by moral
presentation of strength by argosy and ammunition, have been necessitate to procure himself due regard
before all abstraction of statesmen into pride from the anglo polity for the continual indignation
upon the enemies and ratables have shown of lifting resident, which
from rebellion had at frequently had divide in the southern struggles,
while in humiliation in the epidemic who were in No-chuen and Tai-did
tung.

Respect has antiforeign but sign who limped a work, which had the link who neglect himself to kite
or does not to penalize plenty. These request to belief of the multitude, mendacious and absurd
to their ideas and do profoundly be amicable soul, am we could not but wash is not key sympathy.
They take themselves to paradigm was hoped of exile; they were southern
to performing everything domestic. An Occupation-the, in which German
teacher were murder, there was not have been the malevolent was to
catechesis.

     
     
     A flashcard of political sign, cheer from termination of alien and
     of the flagship, had sprung unrebuked. Hostile presentation are
     toward contrary. The religion, can not normally title
     when the Drawers, was evolve greatly in hospitality of Principle-Tse,
     and with the cahoot of many notable records, include some in
     the immediate assembly are of the Toilet, become alarmingly am aggressive.

     No clay, outside the pact, was united. No curiosity was
     unafraid representation

     
     .
     

When the grandson of John C. Calhoun can make such admissions, creditable alike to his head
and his heart, may not the great-grandson of Wade Hampton rise up to chase the Bourbonism of
his great-grandfather into the tomb of disgruntlement? I have not the least doubt of such probability.
Again, I say, I am not seriously concerned about the future political status of the black man
of the South. He has talent; he has ambition; he possesses a rare fund of eloquence, of wit
and of humor, and these will carry him into the executive chambers of States, the halls of
legislation and on to the bench of the judiciary. You can't bar him out; you can't repress
him: he will make his way. God has planted in his very nature those elements which constitute
the stock-in-trade of the American politician--ready eloquence, rich humor, quick perception--and
you may rest assured he will use all of them to the very best advantage.

I know of municipalities in the South to-day, where capable colored men are regularly voted
into responsible positions by the best white men of their cities. And why not? Do not colored
men vote white men into office? And, pray, is the white man less magnanimous than the black
man? Perish the thought! No; the politics of the South will readily adjust themselves to the
best interest of the people; be very sure of this. And the future rulers of the South will
not all be white, nor will they be all black: they will be a happy commingling of the two peoples.

And thus with the so-called "war of races:" it will pass away and leave not a trace behind.
It is based upon condition and color-prejudice--two things which cannot perpetuate themselves.
When the lowly condition of the black man has passed away; when he becomes a capable president
of banks, of railroads and of steamboats; when he becomes a large land-holder, operating bonanza
farms which enrich him and pauperize black and white labor; when he is not only a prisoner
at the bar but a judge on the bench; when he sits in the halls of legislation the advocate
of the people, or (more profit if less honor) the advocate of vast corporations and monopolies;
when he has successfully metamorphosed the condition which attaches to him as a badge of slavery
and degradation, and made a reputation for himself as a financier, statesman, advocate, land-holder,
and money-shark generally, his color will be swallowed up in his reputation, his bank-account
and his important money interests.

Is this a fancy picture?

Let us see.

A few months ago I sat in the banking office of Mr. William E. Mathews and ex-Congressman Joseph
H. Rainey (of South Carolina), in Washington. As I sat there, a stream of patrons came and
went. The whites were largely in the majority. They all wanted to negotiate a loan, or to meet
a note just matured. Among the men were contractors, merchants, department clerks, etc. They
all spoke with the utmost deference to the colored gentleman who had money to loan upon good
security and good interest.

A few months ago I dined with ex-Senator B.K. Bruce (of Mississippi), now Register of the United
States Treasury. The ex-Senator has a handsome house, and a delightful family. In running my
eyes over his card tray, I saw the names of some of the foremost men and women of the nation
who had called upon Register and Mrs. Bruce. In passing through the Register's department with
the Senator, sight-seeing, I was not surprised at the marks of respect shown to Mr. Bruce by
the white ladies and gentlemen in his department. Why? Because Mr. Bruce is a gentleman by
instinct, a diplomat by nature, and a scholar who has "burned the midnight oil." Such a person
does not have to ask men and women to respect him; they do so instinctively.

I walked down F street and called at the office of Prof. Richard T. Greener, a ripe scholar
and a gentleman. The professor not only has a paying law practice, but is president of a new
insurance company. He has all that he can do, and his patrons are both black and white.

All this and more came under my observation in the course of an hour's leisure at the capital
of the nation. And the black man has not yet aroused himself to a full sense of his responsibilities
or of his opportunities.

In Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and Boston we have colored men of large wealth, who conduct
extensive business operations and enjoy the confidence and esteem of their fellow citizens
without regard to caste.

Speaking upon the progress of the colored race, in the course of an address on the "Civil Rights
Law," at Washington, October 20, 1883, the Hon. John Mercer Langston, United States Minister
and Consul General to Hayti, and one of the most remarkable, scholarly, and diplomatic men
the colored race in America has produced, drew the following pen-picture:

     Do you desire to witness moral wonders? Start at Chicago;
     travel to St. Louis; travel to Louisville; travel to
     Nashville; travel to Chattanooga; travel on to New Orleans,
     and in every State and city you will meet vast audiences,
     immense concourses of men and women with their children,
     boys and girls, who, degraded and in ignorance because of
     their slavery formerly, are to-day far advanced in general
     social improvement.

     It would be remarkable now for you to go into the home of
     one of our families, and find even our daughters incompetent
     to discourse with you upon any subject of general interest
     with perfect ease and understanding. Excuse me, if I refer
     to the fact that some two weeks ago I visited St. Louis for
     two reasons; first to see my son and daughter, and secondly
     and mainly to attend the seventy-second anniversary of the
     birth of perhaps the richest colored man in the State of
     Missouri. I went to his house, and I was surprised as I
     entered his doors and looked about his sitting-room and
     parlors, furnished in the most approved modern style, in the
     richest manner; but I was more surprised when I saw one
     hundred guests come into the home of this venerable man, to
     celebrate the seventy-second anniversary of his birth, all
     beautifully attired; and when he told me, indirectly, how
     much money he had made, since the war, and what he was worth
     on the night of this celebration, I was more surprised than
     ever. I am surprised at the matchless progress the colored
     people of this country have made since their emancipation. I
     have traveled in the West Indies; I have seen the
     emancipated English, Spanish and French Negro; but I have
     seen no emancipated Negro anywhere who has made the progress
     at all comparable with the colored people of the United
     States of America.

I desire it to be distinctly understood, that I am not at all anxious about the mental and
material development of the colored people of the United States. They are naturally shrewd,
calculating and agreeable, possessing in a peculiar degree the art of pleasing; and these qualities
will give them creditable positions in the business interests of the country in a few years.
But they must have time to collect their wits, to sharpen their intelligence, to train their
moral sense and the feeling of social responsibility, to fully comprehend all that the change
from chattel slavery to absolute freedom implies. Men cannot awaken from a Rip Van Winkle slumber
of a hundred years and grasp at once the altered conditions which flash upon them. The awakening
is terrific, appalling, staggering.

When a man has been confined for long years in a dark dungeon he has not trouble in discerning
objects about him which, when he first entered his dungeon, were indistinct or invisible to
him. So when he is brought suddenly to the strong light of the sun the effulgence overmasters
him, and he is blind as a bat. But slowly and painfully he becomes accustomed to the transition
from absolute darkness to absolute light, and then nature wears to his vision her naturally
gay and winsome appearance. So with the slave. His grasp of the conditions of freedom is slow
and uncertain. But give him time, lend him a helping hand, and he will completely master the
situation.

In one of the most remarkable pamphlets of the time, written by C.K. Marshall, D.D., of Vicksburg,
Miss., entitled The Colored Race Weighed in the Balance, being a reply to a most malicious
speech by J.L. Tucker, D.D., of Jackson, Miss., I find many truths that the American people
should know. Both Dr. Marshall and Dr. Tucker are white ministers of the South, and both should
be intimately acquainted with the characteristics, capacity and progress of the colored people.
But Dr. Tucker appears to be as ignorant of the colored race as if he had spent his days in
the Sandwich Islands instead of the sunny land of the South.

Dr. Marshall says (p. 55):

     I think I know nearly all that can be said against a Negro.
     In one form or another, the complaints have been a thousand
     times reiterated; but has he not been, and is he not now
     what the white man and society have made him? He is
     naturally peace-loving, docile, and imitative. If kindly and
     justly treated, with due allowance for the peculiar
     elements that make up his life, he will render back, in
     kind at least, equally with the brother in white in like
     surroundings. Everybody knows some reliable, trustworthy
     Negro man and woman; and John Randolph said that of two of
     the politest men he ever saw one was a Negro. Gentleness
     is a wonderful agency in managing a Negro: I know it tells
     powerfully upon white folks. The psalmist, addressing his
     Maker, says, "Thy gentleness hath made me great." It is a
     mighty lever; it moves the world; it moved it before
     Archimedes; it moves it still; but peevishness,
     fault-finding, scolding, cursing, premature censure, haughty
     and assuming ways, sullenness, ill-temper, whether in the
     field, the kitchen, the nursery, or parlor, will
     legitimately result in thriftlessness, revolt, departure,
     and contempt for white people! Many of the young generation
     have not yet found their places in the new order of things;
     and their silly parents work themselves nearly to death to
     keep their sons from the plow and to make ladies of their
     daughters, just like white folks; but time, gentleness,
     bread, and neat homes will, with religion and culture, bring
     great changes. And I say it to the credit of their former
     owners, and their own instincts and capabilities, that they
     constitute to-day the best peasantry, holding similar
     relations to the ruling classes on the face of the earth.
     Their vices are no greater; their respect for law about the
     same; and their care for their children little inferior.
     Besides, they speak the language of their country better,
     are less cringing and craven, freer from begging; more
     manly, more polite, less priest-ridden, less obsequious;
     have a higher estimate of human rights and obligations;
     understand farming, cooking, house-work, and manual labor,
     in which they have been trained, better, I insist, than any
     similarly conditioned race or people. They are less
     profane--very much less--than white people; less bitter,
     vindictive, and bloodthirsty; less intemperate, and far, far
     less revengeful; and less selfish than what they
     contemptuously snub as "poor white trash." But he is a
     sinner! I believe the old stale rhyme tells some truth in a
     modified sense, "In Adam's fall we sinned all;" but I do not
     believe the serpent's tooth struck a more deadly and
     depraving virus into the Negro's share of the apple of Eden,
     dooming him as a sinner to a lower plane of wickedness than
     others. He commits not all, but many, of the sins, crimes,
     and misdemeanors, and indulges many of the vices of polished
     humanity--cultured Caucasian humanity. They have had but
     moderate experience in the sole management of their own
     affairs.

Again (p. 66):

     The Negro is neither a beggar, nor a pauper, nor a tramp;
     and if honestly dealt with, he can make his own way. Where
     they are idle and profligate, execute the law vigorously
     against them, and they will approve and aid in the work. We
     can lift them up, or cast them down. For one, I think we owe
     them a debt of gratitude and impartial justice for their
     faithful conduct during the war; and when disposed to
     criticise and reproach them for not coming in all things up
     to your sentimental notions, just put yourself in their
     place. Then you will, if your scales are true and your
     weights just, settle the question with little difficulty. I
     cannot serve my readers better, perhaps, than by quoting the
     words of the Rev. Dr. Callaway, lately Professor in Emory
     College, Oxford, Ga., and new President of Paine Institute,
     Augusta, Ga., a native of that State, and to the manor born.
     In a late address, he says: "We have spoken of the Negro as
     related to the conduct of the war, but it remains to be said
     that, in his relation to us as a friend during that period,
     and to our wives and children as guardian, the testimony of
     his fidelity is on the lips of every surviving soldier. It
     is easy to conjecture how, with a race less loyal to home
     and patron, the testimony in the case might have been a
     narrative of lawlessness and license. What he refrained
     from, therefore, is to his credit. But in the four years of
     darkness and demoralization, when, besides those of military
     age, every boy whose muscles were equal to the support of a
     musket, and every old man with vigor enough to mark time,
     was called to the front, the Negro, commanding as a
     patriarch and reverent as a priest, kept sacred vigil at our
     homes. Besides this, with a foresight not developed for
     himself or his family, but evoked by virtue of his office,
     and the piteous destitution of our loved ones, he provided
     for their wants. 'They were a-hungered, and he fed them.'
     What he did is to his honor. What we refrain from in our
     place of power as the superior race, shall be to our credit;
     what we do in return shall be in proof of our appreciation.
     The conduct of the Negro during the war proves him kindly,
     temperate, trustworthy; his conduct since the war reveals in
     him considerateness, purpose, capacity, an order of growing
     good qualities. During the war his inferior courage, it may
     be assumed, inured to his superior serviceableness, his
     fears giving counsel to his courtesy and care. So set it
     down, if you will, though the logic is as lame as the charge
     is ungrateful."

This testimony upon the character, temper and adaptability of colored people is all the more
valuable because Dr. Marshall not only treats the question from a Christian standpoint, but
because his intimate acquaintance with the subject adds weight and authority to his opinion.

In the same strain, Dr. Atticus G. Haygood, President of Emory College, in Georgia, a man of
the largest culture, Christian intelligence and progressive ideas, says, in his masterful work,
Our Brother in Black, His Freedom and His Future (p. 194):

     If white people and black people wish to know how to treat
     each other in all the relations of life, let them study the
     Bible. Take for example the business relations of life, the
     old question of capital and labor, of service and wages. For
     the settlement of all questions that grow out of these
     relations the laws laid down and the principles taught in
     the Bible, are worth all the "political economies" in the
     world. They apply to all races and conditions of men, in all
     countries and in all times. They are as needful and useful
     in New England factories as on Southern plantations. Free
     Negroes are not the only underlings in the world, Negro
     servants are not the only hirelings. There are thousands of
     factory operatives, day laborers, domestic servants,
     mechanics, sewing women, clerks, apprentices, and such like,
     whose cry for justice against oppression goes up to heaven
     by day and by night. "For which things' sake," in all lands,
     "the wrath of God is come upon the children of
     disobedience." Let us here recall some of these
     half-forgotten laws; they must do us all good. I know they
     are needed in the South; I am persuaded that they are needed
     wherever there are masters and servants.

Having heard a great deal about the condition of the colored people in Louisiana, I decided
that it would not be uninteresting to have an authentic statement of that condition by some
person fully capable of furnishing the desired information. I therefore addressed a letter
to the Hon. Theophile T. Allain, a colored member of the Louisiana Legislature for Sweet Iberville
parish, and a large sugar planter. From Mr. Allain's letter I condense the following statement,
which will be found to be interesting for many reasons:

"First," says Mr. Allain, "I speak as a man of the South, who pays taxes on thirty-five thousand
dollars worth of property, and without owing to any man one dollar. I claim to be well informed
as to the condition of the colored people of the South, the people who bear the heat and burden
of the day.

"In the cotton section of the South the Negroes are kept in subjugation, and are not permitted
to exercise the right of suffrage guaranteed to them by the provisions of the Federal constitution.
In the sugar-growing districts of Louisiana the colored and white people live upon terms of
friendship and cordiality. In these districts there are thousands of colored men, who before
the war were slaves, who now pay taxes upon property, assessed in their own names, ranging
in value from five hundred to fifty thousand dollars. They produce principally rice and sugar.
It is a self-evident fact that the labor of the colored men produces two-thirds of all the
cotton raised in the South, four-fifths of the sugar, and nine-tenths of all the rice.

"In the cotton sections of Louisiana the colored men work mostly on shares, and here and there
some of them have accumulated a little money; but, as a rule, they make fortunes for the landlords
and die in poverty because of no fault of their own. Rent here, as everywhere else, pulls the
laborer down, and keeps him down. What remains to him after the landlord has taken his share,
goes to the Jew shopkeepers and other middle men at crossroads, who will not be satisfied with
any profit less than one hundred to one hundred and fifty per cent.

"But the sugar districts of Louisiana are like oases in the desert. Vacuum pans, steam cars,
fine machinery and smiling faces are to be met on every hand. Colored laborers find employment
very readily in the sugar districts from October to February; and during cultivation-time,
in many places, the colored laborers receive as high as one dollar and twenty cents per day,
and during the grinding season, which is the harvest time, laborers receive from one dollar
and twenty-five cents to one dollar and fifty cents per day in the field and seventy-five cents
for one half of the night. At this season we run the sugar machinery night and day. I should
not omit to state that colored men are, in the majority of cases, employed as engineers at
our sugar mills, and receive from two to two and a half dollars per day:

"You will be surprised when I tell you that the most of the bricklaying and plastering work,
and the blacksmithing and carpentering work is done in the sugar districts by colored men,
who average three dollars per day for their work.

"There are fifty-eight parishes in Louisiana, twenty-four of them being sugar districts. To
illustrate the degree of toleration which obtains in the cotton and sugar growing districts,
take the following statement: In the Louisiana House of Representatives there are thirteen
colored members--all from the sugar districts; in the Senate there are four colored members--all
from the sugar districts. This condition of things is readily accounted for by the fact that
the colored people in the sugar districts are more generally tax payers than they are in the
cotton districts, and, having mutual interests, both white and black are more tolerant and
better informed. The Bulldozer and White Liner can find but little room to ply their nefarious
work where everybody finds plenty of work that pays well, and where material prosperity is
the first and political bickering the secondary consideration. Because of the mutual interests
at stake, colored men in the sugar districts are often protected by their bitterest political
opponents.

"The State of Louisiana is assessed at $200,000,000, of which her colored population pay taxes
upon more than $30,000,000.--Two thirds of this is owned by colored men in the sugar districts."

I could multiply quotations, but they would serve only to confirm my view, that the colored
man merely requires time to fully comprehend his freedom and his opportunities, to enjoy the
ample immunities of the first and to improve to the utmost the advantages of the second. All
over the country the colored man is coming to understand that if he is ever to have and enjoy
a status in this country at all commensurate with that of his white fellow-citizens, he must
get his grip upon the elements of success which they employ with such effect, and boldly enter
the lists, a competitor who must make a way for himself. Dr. Marshall says truly: "The Negro
is neither a beggar, nor a pauper, nor a tramp." He is, essentially, a man of the largest wealth,
God having given him, under tropical conditions, a powerful physique, with ample muscle and
constitution to extract out of the repositories of nature her buried wealth. He only needs
intelligence to use the wealth he creates. When he has intelligence, he will no longer labor
to enrich men more designing and unscrupulous than he is; he will labor to enrich himself and
his children. Indeed, in his powerful muscle and enduring physical constitution, directed by
intelligence, the black man of the South, who alone has demonstrated his capacity to labor
with success in the rice swamps, the cotton, and the cornfields of the South, will ultimately
turn the tables upon the unscrupulous harpies who have robbed him for more than two hundred
years; and from having been the slave of these men, he, in turn, will enslave them. From having
been the slave, he will become the master; from having labored to enrich others, he will force
others to labor to enrich him. The laws of nature are inexorable, and this is one of them.
The white men of the South may turn pale with rage at this aspect of the case, but it is written
on the wall. Already I have seen in the South the black and white farm laborer, working side
by side for a black landlord; already I have seen in the South a black and a white brick-mason
(and carpenters as well) working upon a building side by side, under a colored contractor.
And we are not yet two decades from the surrender of Robert E. Lee and the manumission of the
black slave.

I have no disposition to infuriate any white man of the South, by placing a red flag before
him; we simply desire to accustom him to look upon a picture which his grand-children will
not, because of the frequency of the occurrence, regard with anything more heart-rending than
complacent indifference. The world moves forward; and the white man of the South could not
stand still, if he so desired. Like the black man, he must work, or perish; like the black
man, he must submit to the sharpest competition, and rise or fall, as the case may be. And
so it should be.

CHAPTER XIV

Classes in the South

Since the war the people of the South are, from a Northern standpoint, very poor. There are
very few millionaires among them. A man who has a bank account of fifty thousand dollars is
regarded as very rich. I am reminded of an incident which shows that the Southern people fall
down and worship a golden calf the same as their deluded brothers of the North and West.

A few years ago I was a resident of Jacksonville, the metropolis of Florida. Florida is a great
Winter resort. The wealthy people of the country go there for a few months or weeks in the
Winter. It is fashionable to do so. A great many wealthy northern men have acquired valuable
landed interests in Jacksonville, among them the Astors of New York, who have a knack for pinning
their interests in the soil. The people of Jacksonville were very proud to have as a resident
and property holder, Mr. Wm. B. Astor. And Mr. Astor appeared to enjoy immensely the worship
bestowed upon his money. He built one or two very fine buildings there, which must net him
a handsome return for his investment by this time. Mr. Astor had with him a very shrewd "Man
Friday," and this Man Friday got it into his head that he would like to be Mayor of Jacksonville,
and he sought and obtained the support of his very powerful patron. It leaked out that Mr.
Astor favored his Man Friday for Mayor. The "business interests" of the city took the matter
"under advisement." After much "consultation" and preliminary skirmishing, it was decided that
it would be unwise to antagonize Mr. Astor's Man Friday; and so he was placed in nomination
as the "Citizens' Candidate." He was elected by a handsome majority. I believe it is a disputed
question to-day, whether Mr. Astor's Man Friday was, or was not, a citizen of the place at
the time he was elected Mayor. Be that as it may, it showed beyond question that the people
knew how to go down upon their knees to the golden calf.

A condition of slavery or of serfdom produces two grievous evils, around which cluster many
others of less importance, viz: the creation of vast landed estates, and the pauperization
and debasement of labor. Pliny declared that to the creation of vast latifundia (aggregated
estates) Italy owed its downfall. The same is true of the downfall of the South and its pet
institution, since they produced a powerful and arrogant class which was not content to lord
it on their vast demesnes and over their pauper labor, but must needs carry their high-flown
notions into the councils of the nation, flaunting their gentle birth and undulating acres
in the faces of horny-handed statesmen like Abraham Lincoln, Henry Wilson, and others.

The operations of the vast landed estates of the South produced all the industrial disjointments
which have afflicted the South since the war. The white man was taught to look upon labor as
the natural portion of the black slave; and nothing could induce a white man to put his hand
to the plow, but the gaunt visage of starvation at his door. He even preferred ignominious
starvation to honest work; and, in his desperate struggle to avoid the horror of the one and
the disgrace of the other, he would sink himself lower in the scale of moral infamy than the
black slave he despised. He would make of himself a monster of cruelty or of abject servility
to avoid starvation or honest work. It was from this class of vermin that the planters secured
their "Nigger drivers" or overseers, and a more pliable, servile, cruel, heartless set of men
never existed. They were commonly known as "poor white trash," or "crackers." They were most
heartily and righteously detested by the slave population. As the poor whites of the South
were fifty years ago, so they are to-day--a careless, ignorant, lazy, but withal, arrogant
set, who add nothing to the productive wealth of the community because they are too lazy to
work, and who take nothing from that wealth because they are too poor to purchase. They have
graded human wants to a point below which man could not go without starving. They live upon
the poorest land in the South, the "piney woods," and raise a few potatoes and corn, and a
few pigs, which never grow to be hogs, so sterile is the land upon which they are turned to
"root, or die." These characteristic pigs are derisively called "shotes" by those who have
seen their lean, lank and hungry development. They are awful counterparts of their pauper owners.
It may be taken as an index of the quality of the soil and the condition of the people, to
observe the condition of their live stock. Strange as it may appear, the faithful dog is the
only animal which appears to thrive on "piney woods" land. The "piney woods" gopher, which
may be not inappropriately termed a "highland turtle," is a great desideratum in the food supply
of the pauper denizens of these portions of the South. There is nothing enticing about the
appearance of the gopher. But his flesh, properly cooked, is passably palatable.

The poor white population of the South who live in the piney woods are sunk in the lowest ignorance,
and practice vices too heinous to be breathed. They have no schools, and their mental condition
hardly warrants the charitable inference that they would profit much if they were supplied
with them. Still, I would like to see the experiment tried. Their horrible poverty, their appalling
illiteracy, their deplorable moral enervation, deserve the pity of mankind and the assistance
of philanthropic men and a thoughtful government. Though sunk to the lowest moral scale, they
are men, and nothing should be omitted to improve their condition and make them more useful
members of the communities in which they are now more than an incubus.

It may not be out of place here to state that the Kuklux Klan, the White Liners League, the
Knights of the White Camelia, and other lawless gangs which have in the past fifteen years
made Southern chivalry a by-word and reproach among the nations of the earth, were largely
recruited from this idle, vicious, ignorant class of Southerners. They needed no preparation
for the bloody work perpetrated by those lawless organizations, those more cruel than Italian
brigands. They instinctively hate the black man; because the condition of the black, his superior
capacity for labor and receptivity of useful knowledge, place him a few pegs higher than themselves
in the social scale. So these degraded white men, the very substratum of Southern population,
were ready tools in the hands of the organized chivalrous brigands (as they had been of the
slave oligarch), whose superior intelligence made them blush at the lawlessness they inspired,
and who, therefore, gladly transferred to other hands the execution of those deeds of blood
and death which make men shudder even now to think of them. It was long a common saying among
the black population of the South that "I'd rudder be a niggah den a po' w'ite man!" and they
were wise in their preference.

It is safe to say, that the peasantry of no country claiming to be civilized stands more in
need of the labors of the schoolmaster and the preacher, than do the so-called "poor white
trash" of the South. On their account, if no other, I am an advocate of a compulsory system
of education, a National Board of Education, and a very large National appropriation for common
school and industrial education.

I name this class first because it is the very lowest.

Next to this class is the great labor force of the South, the class upon whose ample shoulders
have fallen the weight of Southern labor and inhumanity for lo! two hundred years--the black
man. Time was, yesterday, it appears to me, when this great class were all of one condition,
driven from the rising to the setting of the sun to enrich men who were created out of the
same sod, and in the construction of whose mysterious mechanism, mental and physical, the great
God expended no more time or ingenuity. Up to the close of the Rebellion, of that gigantic
conflict which shook the pillars of republican government to their center, the great black
population were truly the "mudsills" of Southern society, upon which rested all the industrial
burdens of that section; truly, "the hewers of wood and the drawers of water;" a people who,
in the mysterious providence of God, were torn root and branch from their savage homes in that
land which has now become to them a dream "more insubstantial than a pageant faded," to "dwell
in a strange land, among strangers," to endure, like the children of Israel, a season of cruel
probation, and then to begin life in earnest; to put their shoulders to the wheel and assist
in making this vast continent, this asylum of the oppressed of the world, the grandest abode
of mingled happiness and woe, and wealth and pauperization ever reared by the genius and governed
by the selfishness and cupidity of man. And to-day, as in the dark days of the past, this people
are the bone and sinew of the South, the great producers and partial consumers of her wealth;
the despised, yet indispensable, "mudsills" of her industrial interests.

A Senator of the United States from the South, whose hands have been dyed in the blood of his
fellow citizens, and who holds his high office by fraud and usurpation, not long since declared
that his State could very well dispense with her black population. That population outnumbers
the white three to one; and by the toil by which that State has been enriched, by the blood
and the sweat of two hundred years which the soil of that State has absorbed, by the present
production and consumption of wealth by that black population, we are amazed at the ignorance
of the great man who has been placed in a "little brief authority." The black population cannot
and will not be dispensed with; because it is so deeply rooted in the soil that it is a part
of it--the most valuable part. And the time will come when it will hold its title to the land,
by right of purchase, for a laborer is worthy of his hire, and is now free to invest that hire
as it pleases him best. Already some of the very best soil of that State is held by the people
this great magnus in the Nation's councils would supersede in their divine rights.

When the war closed, as I said, the great black population of the South was distinctively a
laboring class. It owned no lands, houses, banks, stores, or live stock, or other wealth. Not
only was it the distinctively laboring class but the distinctively pauper class. It had neither
money, intelligence nor morals with which to begin the hard struggle of life. It was absolutely
at the bottom of the social ladder. It possessed nothing but health and muscle.

I have frequently contemplated with profound amazement the momentous mass of subjected human
force, a force which had been educated by the lash and the bloodhound to despise labor, which
was thrown upon itself by the wording of the Emancipation Proclamation and the surrender of
Robert E. Lee. Nothing in the history of mankind is at all comparable, an exact counterpart,
in all particulars, to that great event. A slavery of two hundred years had dwarfed the intelligence
and morality of this people, and made them to look upon labor as the most baneful of all the
curses a just God can inflict upon humankind; and they were turned loose upon the land, without
a dollar in their hands, and, like the great Christ and the fowls of the air, without a place
to lay their head.

And yet to-day, this people, who, only a few years ago, were bankrupts in morality, in intelligence,
and in wealth, have leaped forward in the battle of progress like veterans; have built magnificent
churches, with a membership of over two million souls; have preachers, learned and eloquent;
have professors in colleges by the hundreds and schoolmasters by the thousands; have accumulated
large landed interests in country, town and city; have established banking houses and railroads;
manage large coal, grocery and merchant tailoring businesses; conduct with ability and success
large and influential newspaper enterprises; in short, have come, and that very rapidly, into
sharp competition with white men (who have the prestige of a thousand years of civilization
and opportunity) in all the industrial interests which make a people great, respected and feared.
The metamorphosis has been rapid, marvelous, astounding. Their home life has been largely transformed
into the quality of purity and refinement which should characterize the home; they have now
successful farmers, merchants, ministers, lawyers, editors, educators, physicians, legislators--in
short, they have entered every avenue of industry and thought. Their efforts yet crude and
their grasp uncertain, but they are in the field of competition, and will remain there and
acquit themselves manfully.

Of course I speak in general terms of the progress the colored people have made. Individual
effort and success are the indicators of the vitality and genius of a people. When individuals
rise out of the indistinguishable mass and make their mark, we may rest assured that the mass
is rich and capable of unlimited production. The great mass of every government, of every people,
while adding to and creating greatness, go down in history unmentioned. But their glory, their
genius, success and happiness, are expended and survive in the few great spirits their fortunate
condition produced. The governments of antiquity were great and glorious, because their proletarians
were intelligent, thrifty and brave, but the proletarians fade into vagueness, and are great
only in the few great names which have been handed down to us. It has been said that a nation
expends a hundred years of its vitality in the production of a great man of genius like Socrates,
or Bacon, or Toussaint l'Overture, or Fulton. And this may be true. There can now be no question
that the African race in the United States possess every element of vitality and genius possessed
by their fellow citizens of other races, and any calculation of race possibilities in this
country which assumes that they will remain indefinitely the "mudsills" only of society will
prove more brittle than ropes of sand.

At this time the colored people of the South are largely the industrial class; that is, they
are the producing class. They are principally the agriculturists of the South; consequently,
being wedded to the soil by life-long association and interest, and being principally the laboring
class, they will naturally invest their surplus earnings in the purchase of the soil. Herein
lies the great hope of the future. For the man who owns the soil largely owns and dictates
to the men who are compelled to live upon it and derive their subsistence from it. The colored
people of the South recognize this fact. And if there is any one idiosyncrasy more marked than
another among them, it is their mania for buying land. They all live and labor in the cheerful
anticipation of some day owning a home, a farm of their own. As the race grows in intelligence
this mania for land owning becomes more and more pronounced. At first their impecuniosity will
compel them to purchase poor hill-lands, but they will eventually get their grip upon the rich
alluvial lands.

The class next to the great black class is the small white farmers. This class is composed
of some of the "best families" of the South who were thrown upon their resources of brain and
muscle by the results of the war, and of some of the worst families drawn from the more thrifty
poor white class. Southern political economists labor hard to make it appear that the vastly
increased production of wealth in the South since the war is to be traced largely to the phenomenally
increased percentum of small white farmers, but the assumption is too transparent to impose
upon any save those most ignorant of the industrial conditions of the South, and the marvelous
adaptability to the new conditions shown by colored men. I grant that these small white farmers,
who were almost too inconsiderable in numbers to be taken into account before the war, have
added largely to the development of the country and the production of wealth; but that the
tremendous gains of free labor as against slave labor are to be placed principally to their
intelligence and industry is too absurd to be seriously debated. The Charleston (S.C.) News
and Courier, a pronounced anti-negro newspaper, recently made such a charge in all seriousness.
The struggle for supremacy will largely come between the small white and black farmer; because
each recurring year will augment the number of each class of small holders. A condition of
freedom and open competition makes the fight equal, in many respects. Which will prove the
more successful small holder, the black or the white?

The fourth class is composed of the hereditary land-lords of the South; the gentlemen with
flowing locks, gentle blood and irascible tempers, who appeal to the code of honor (in times
past) to settle small differences with their equals and shoot down their inferiors without
premeditation or compunction, and who drown their sorrows, as well as their joviality in rye
or Bourbon whiskey; the gentlemen who claim consanguinity with Europe's titled sharks, and
vaunt their chivalry in contrast to the peasant or yeoman blood of all other Americans; the
gentlemen who got their broad acres (however they came by their peculiar blood) by robbing
black men, women and children of the produce of their toil under the system of slavery, and
who maintain themselves in their reduced condition by driving hard bargains with white and
black labor either as planters or shop-keepers, often as both, the dual occupations more effectually
enabling them to make unreasonable contracts and exactions of those they live to victimize.
They are the gentlemen who constantly declare that "this is a white man's government," and
that "the Negro must be made to keep his place." They are the gentlemen who have their grip
upon the throat of Southern labor; who hold vast areas of land, the product of robbery, for
a rise in values; who run the stores and torture the small farmer to death by usurious charges
for necessaries; these are the gentlemen who are opposed to the new conditions resultant from
the war which their Hotspur impetuosity and Shylock greed made possible. In short, these gentlemen
comprise the moneyed class. They are the gentlemen who are hastening the conflict of labor
and capital in the South. And, when the black laborer and the white laborer come to their senses,
join issues with the common enemy and pitch the tent of battle, then will come the tug of war.

But the large land-owners and tradesmen of the South will not in the future belong exclusively
to the class of persons I have described. On the contrary this class of hereditary land-owners
will be sensibly diminished and their places be taken by successful recruits from the ranks
of small white and black farmers. Indeed, I confess, I strongly incline to the belief that
the black man of the South will eventually become the large land-holding class, and, therefore,
the future tyrants of labor in that section. All the indications strongly point to such a possibility.
It is estimated that, already, the colored people own, in the cotton growing states, 2,680,800
acres, the result of seventeen years of thrift, economy, and judicious management; while in
the State of Georgia alone they own, it is reliably estimated, 680,000 acres of land, and pay
taxes on $9,000,000 worth of property. Dr. Alexander Crummell, a most learned African, in a
very interesting pamphlet drawn out by the malicious misstatements of Dr. Tucker, before referred
to by me, makes the following deductions and statements, to wit:

     Let me suggest here another estimate of this landed property
     of the Negro, acquired since emancipation. Taking the old
     slave States in the general, there has been a large
     acquisition of land in each and all of them. In the State of
     Georgia, as we have just seen, it was 680,000 acres. Let us
     put the figure as low as 400,000 for each State--for the
     purchase of farm lands has been everywhere a passion with
     the freedman--this 400,000 acres multiplied into 14, i.e.
     the number of the chief Southern States, shows an aggregate
     of 5,600,000 acres of land, the acquisition of the black
     race in less than twenty years.

     But Dr. Tucker will observe a further fact of magnitude in
     this connection: It is the increased PRODUCTION which has
     been developed on the part of the freedman since
     emancipation. I present but one staple, and for the reason
     that it is almost exclusively the result of $1.

     I will take the five years immediately preceding the late
     civil war and compare them with the five years preceeding
     the last year's census-taking; and the contrast in the
     number of cotton-bales produced will show the industry and
     thrift of the black race as a consequent on the gift of
     freedom:

     Years                                       Bales
     1857                                         2,939,519
     1858                                         3,113,962
     1859                                         3,851,481
     1860                                         4,669,770
     1861                                         3,656,006
                                                 ----------
       Total                                     18,230,738

     Years                                       Bales
     1878                                         4,811,265
     1879                                         5,073,531
     1880                                         5,757,397
     1881                                         6,589,329
     1882                                         5,435,845
                                                -----------
     The five years' work of freedom           27,667,367
     The five years' work of slavery           18,230,738
                                                 ----------
     Balance in favor of freedom                  9,436,629

     Now this item of production is a positive disproof of Dr.
     Tucker's statement, "that the average level in material
     prosperity is but little higher than it was before the war."
     Here is the fact that the Freedman has produced one-third
     more in five years than he did in the same time when a
     slave!

     Another view of this matter is still more striking. The
     excess of yield in cotton in seven years [i.e., from 1875
     to 1882] over the seven years [i.e., from 1854 to 1861]
     is 17,091,000 bales, being $1. If Dr. Tucker will glance at
     the great increase of the cotton, tobacco, and sugar crops
     South, as shown in Agricultural Reports from 1865 to 1882,
     and reflect that NEGROES have been the producers of these
     crops, he will understand their indignation at his
     outrageous charges of "laziness and vagabondage:" and
     perhaps he will listen to their demand that he shall take
     back the unjust and injurious imputations which, without
     knowledge and discrimination, he makes against a whole race
     of people.

     This impulse to thrift on the part of the Freedmen was no
     tardy and reluctant disposition. It was the immediate
     offspring of freedom.

It is not possible even to approximate the landed acquisitions of the colored people, but that
they have been large purchasers of small holdings will readily be admitted by all candid persons
who are acquainted with the intense pastoral nature of the people, their constant thrift, and
their deepseated determination to own their own homes. If we assume, with Dr. Crummell, that
in the past seventeen years, the hardest, most disadvantageous years they will ever again be
compelled to go through, they have come into possession of 5,600,000 acres, the gain in the
next seventeen years must be vastly greater. At any rate, we are free to place the holdings
in the next fifty years at not less than 35,000,000 acres, and the probability is that it will
be vastly more.

In the Popular Science Monthly for October 1881, Mr. J. Stahl Patterson, in an article on the
"Movement of the Colored Population," says: "It would seem that in the industrial aspects of
the case the white and colored men may be, under certain circumstances, the complement of each
other." Again: "There are two distinct classes of colored economists. One is satisfied with
dependence on others for employment, the other affects independent homes, and struggles to
secure them, however humble. Some even acquire wealth."

In the same monthly for February, 1883, Prof. E.W. Gilliam has a long article on the "African
in the United States," in which he does all he can to make wider the breach between the blacks
and the whites. He has very little good to say of the black man. But he was forced to make
the following admissions, viz:

"The blacks are an improving race, and the throb of aspiration is quickening. * * * Advancement
in mental training and in economic science must needs be slow but there is advancement."

The learned professor makes the interesting calculation that the blacks in the Southern States
will increase from 6,000,000 in 1880, to 192,000,000, in 1980; while the whites in the South,
in 1880, 12,000,000, will number only 96,000,000, in 1980. The learned professor infers that
this vast army will be "doomed to remain where they have been, and be hewers of wood and drawers
of water," because they form a "distinct alien race." I think, if the professor will wait until
1980, he will find that this "alien race," which profligate white men have done and are doing
so much to amalgamate with their own race, will not only increase approximately as he has figured
it out, in numbers, but in wealth as well.

The future landlord and capitalist of the South are no longer confined to the white race: the
black man has become a factor, and he must be counted.

CHAPTER XV

The Land Problem

The ownership of land in the South is the same pernicious thing it has come to be in every
civilized country in the world. Instead of being, as it was intended to be, a blessing to the
people, it is the crying curse which takes precedence of all other evils that afflict mankind.
And the cause is not far to seek. Land is, in its very nature, the common property of the people.
Like air and water, it is one of the natural elements which inhere in man as a common right,
and without which life could in no wise be sustained. A man must have air, or he will suffocate;
he must have water, or he will perish of thirst; he must have access to the soil, for upon
it grow those things which nature intended for the sustentation of the physical man, and without
which he cannot live. Deprive me of pure fresh air, and I die; deprive me of pure fresh water,
and I die; deprive me of free opportunity to earn my bread by the sweat of my brow, by sowing
in the sowing time and reaping in the reaping time, and I die. There is no escape from this
aspect of the case: there is no logic that can reduce these truisms to sophistries. They are
founded in the omnipotent laws of God, and are as universal as the earth. They apply with as
much truth to life in the United States as in Dahomey; they operate in like nature upon the
savage as upon man in the civilized state. Individual ownership in the land is a transgression
of the common right of man, and a usurpation which produces nearly, if not all, the evils which
result upon our civilization; the inequalities which produce pauperism, vice, crime, and wide-spread
demoralization among all the so-called "lower classes;" which produce, side by side, the millionaire
and the tramp, the brownstone front and the hut of the squatter, the wide extending acres of
the bonanza farm and the small holding, the lord of the manor and the cringing serf, peasant
and slave.

I maintain, with other writers upon this land question, that land is common property, the property
of the whole people, and that it cannot be alienated from the people without producing the
most fearful consequences. No man is free who is debarred in his right, to so much of the soil
of his country as is necessary to support him in his right to life, for without the inherent
right to unrestrained access to the soil he cannot support life, except in primitive society
where land is plentiful, population sparse, and industry undiversified. As population becomes
denser and land becomes scarcer from having been monopolized by the more far seeing, or more
fortunate, and industry becomes more diversified, mankind begins to feel the pressure of population
described by Malthus, and the scarcity of subsistence; caused, not by this pressure of population,
as Malthus maintains, but by the restricted production of subsistence caused by the monopoly
and concentration of the soil, which inhibits the producing agency from the production of the
increased subsistence necessary to the increased number of mouths to be fed. There can be no
such thing as overproduction when there are hundreds and thousands who perish for food; there
can be no pressure upon population when there are hundreds and thousands of acres of arable
land locked up in a deed purchase, or entail, or primogeniture, upon which alone beasts are
allowed to trespass. The idea is preposterous. And yet men who are regarded as standard authority
upon economic questions impose this sophistry of overproduction and pressure of population
upon mankind, and are applauded for their ignorance, or the cupidity which makes them to pervert
the truth.

Monopoly of land is the curse of the race in every modern government. Being the one great source
from which all wealth must and does spring, its concentration in the hands of a few men not
only impoverishes the people, but seriously cripples the operations of government (the one
and the other being substantially identical) by curtailing the productive energies of the people
and diverting into the coffers of individuals rental which should flow into the common treasury
as taxes, thus lifting from the shoulders of the people the enormous burden of the maintenance
of government which falls upon them.

Monopoly of land was the prime element which hastened the decay of Roman greatness and strength,
because when the people no longer had homes to fight for they ceased to be patriots, ceased
to be virtuous, and became mercenaries, or slaves or tyrants; left to those who had monopolized
the soil, the defense of their property: and these, being few in numbers, parsimonious after
the nature of their class, and effeminate from luxurious living and habits of indolence, fell
easy victims to the rapacity and iron nerve of Goth and Vandal. The great French Revolution
would have never occurred but for the monopoly of land, which, after long ages, became centered
in a few hands, who by reason of this were a privileged class and in the refinement of language
had been designated as the "nobility." The nobility, as was natural, having been created by
the State, not only ground the proletariat to powder but dictated to the State. When it was
no longer possible to purchase land, because those whose nobility rested upon it would not
alienate it, and when the proletariat had been reduced to a state of vassalage, more vile and
grinding than slavery itself, the proletariat rose up in its might and crushed at one tremendous
blow the hydra-headed monstrosity. Marat, Danton and Robespiere concentrated in their intense
natures the venom, the hate, and the desperation of the people--a more terrible triumvirate
than the celebrated one which colored the Tiber with the patrician blood of Rome. The Nihilism
of Russia is the outgrowth of monopoly in land and the consequent enslavement of the people
by the aristocracy, beginning with the autocrat upon his throne. England has reached a transition
period. The pressure of her population has become so intense, that the great producing classes
can no longer stand the tension and live. The land has been filched from the people to enrich
the brainless favorites and the courtesans of kings, and entailed upon their progeny generation
after generation. The land of Great Britain is held by the nobility and the princely cormorants
of trade, who exact rental which cannot be paid from the produce of the soil, so usurious is
it, or who turn the rich acres into pleasure grounds and pasturages. As Nero fiddled while
Rome was one vast blaze of conflagration and horror, so the nobility of Great Britain dance
and make merry while the people starve or seek in other lands that opportunity to live which
their country denies to them. For the past five years the government of Great Britain has been
engaged in a most desperate struggle with the people of one of her constituent islands, the
agitation assuming, like the chameleon, different colors or names as the exigencies of the
contending forces determined. But the one great question at the root of the agitation is the
monopoly of the land by the "nobility" and the successful cormorants of trade, and the consequent
pressure of population upon the enforced circumscription of production. The best lands have
been alienated from the people, while the inferior lands upon which they are allowed to live
will not yield the exorbitant rental demanded and the necessary subsistence for those who work
them. Hence, Ireland is in a state so explosive that it can only be appropriately described
by the term "dynamitic." In the interest of a few landlords the whole Irish nation has been
demoralized and impoverished, so that the government of Great Britain finds it necessary to
"assist" able-bodied men to reach America, or any other portion of the world they desire to
go to, in order to make a living.

If monopoly in land produces such results as these is it not to be condemned as subversive
of correct social adjustments and the perpetuity of government? The question admits of but
one answer. If monopoly in land compels a government to "assist" its able-bodied men, its laborers,
its producers of wealth, its soldiery, to go to other lands, is it not to be condemned as parasitical,
destroying the very bone and sinew of government? The answer is self-evident. If monopoly in
land produces such results as these, would it not be wise statesmanship and sound governmental
policy to confiscate to the people the millions of acres which avarice, cunning, favoritism
and robbery have turned into parks, pasturages and game preserves--making the few thousands
who constitute the land monopolists, the idlers and the harpies, go honestly to work to make
a living, and giving at the same time the same opportunity to the great laboring classes, who
earnestly desire to make a living but to whom the opportunity is cruelly and maliciously denied?

I am opposed to aristocracies and so-called privileged classes, because they are opposed to
the masses. They make inequalities, out of which grow all the miseries of society, because
there is no limit to their avarice, parsimony and cruelty. So they thrive, all the rest of
humanity may go to the dogs; so they revel in luxury and debauchery, all the rest of humanity
may revel in poverty, vice and crime; so they enjoy all the blessings of organized society,
all the rest of humanity may bear its curses. Man is essentially a selfish animal. Self-preservation
is the very first law which he learns to observe and to practice. That he may get on top of
the social ladder and remain there, he will sacrifice family, common humanity and patriotism.
Naturally, Moloch-self is the god he serves. To enjoy a little brief authority, he would enslave
universal mankind, and declare, as Solomon did, after exhausting the catalogue of tyranny and
libertinism, "all is vanity"--emptiness! Thus, it is dangerous to confide in the humanity of
man. To place in his hands a weapon so all-powerful as land, is to place him upon a pinnacle
from whose vast altitude he can, will, and does crush his unfortunate fellowman.

Like the small stream which gathers volume and momentum in its wanderings from the small lake
to the gulf, into which it debouches as a mighty river like the "Father of Waters," so the
first encroachments of the land shark are small, and hardly felt; but give him time, let him
grow from the Norman soldier of fortune into the English nobility of to-day, and you have a
monster whose proportions and rapacity stagger the imagination to fully apprehend. What the
common soldier of fortune received as reward for his valor eight hundred years ago, and which
he held subject to confiscation to his prince if he failed to render him service in person
and with retainers, has developed into a huge monopoly which appropriates in rental more than
the tenant can pay, with the added necessary subsistence required to sustain him. There are
also the imposition of direct taxes by the government and indirect taxes upon all implements
and other articles of manufacture, occasioned by the division of labor, which he must use;
all of which taxes the land monopolists have managed to shift upon the tenant and wage-laborer.
Time augments the evil. So that, to-day, in Great Britain, a man cannot purchase land, except
in rare cases, and then the purchaser must pay a fortune for the privilege. The poor farmer,
the wage-laborer, the common man, has not and cannot have any grip upon the soil, but must
come into the world a slave, and go down to his grave after a life of toil and self-denial,
a slave, with the tormenting consciousness that as he was, so must the unfortunate offspring
of his loins be!

If this be the tendency of organized society--if the tendency be to enslave mankind, place
a premium upon human woe and crime--then organized society is organized robbery, and the savage
state is preferable. There is no appeal from this deduction. What avail the triumphs of art,
science and commerce, if the majority of mankind are ground to powder to make those triumphs
possible!

It is not the law of God, but the law of man, that produces these herculean evils which constantly
threaten the peace and safety of society.

But the British land-owner, having enslaved the people of his own island, has shackled the
people of Ireland, Scotland and Wales, doomed them and their posterity to be perpetual aliens
in their native lands; he has, upon the plea of conquest, the argument of the base assassin
and robber, reduced the people of India to a state worse than death; and his iron grip has
been placed upon the uncounted millions of African soil; the Islands of the sea squirm in his
grasp; the West India Islands are his prostrate prey; while a portion of the vast continent
of America owns his sway and groans under his exactions.

But this is not all. In our own country the British land shark has made his appearance. His
vile clutch, which our forefathers unwrenched in the strength of their Colonial greatness,
has again been fastened upon our throat. The following table will show the extent to which
the parasite has insinuated himself into our vital parts. Let the good people of this country--who
should know that monopoly in land is the death note of free institutions; that large estates
are the parasites of republics and the death of small freeholders--let the people read the
following table with the closeness which its gravity should inspire. The San Francisco Daily
Examiner, a leading paper on the Pacific coast says:

     Besides the millions of acres belonging to railroad and
     other corporations, the amount of land that is being
     acquired by foreign capitalists and landlords is fairly
     amazing. Ireland is to-day groaning beneath the yoke of
     oppression, and not many years will roll around before the
     American tenant, upon his knees, will also look up into the
     scowling face of his master and acknowledge his obedience.
     Following are a few of America's foreign landlords, and the
     amount of their holdings expressed in acres:--

     An English Syndicate, No. 3, in Texas                    3,000,000
     The Holland Land Company, New Mexico                     4,500,000
     Sir Edward Reid, and a syndicate in Florida              2,000,000
     English Syndicate, in Mississippi                        1,800,000
     Marquis of Tweedale                                      1,750,000
     Philips, Marshal & Co., London                           1,300,000
     German Syndicate                                         1,100,000
     Anglo-American Syndicate, Mr. Rogers President, London     750,000
     Byron H. Evans, of London, in Mississippi                  700,000
     Duke of Sutherland                                         425,000
     British Land Company, in Kansas                            320,000
     William Whallay, M.P., Peterboro, England                  310,000
     Missouri Land Company, Edinburgh, Scotland                 300,000
     Robert Tennant, of London                                  230,000
     Dundee Land Company, Scotland                              247,000
     Lord Dunmore                                               120,000
     Benjamin Newgas, Liverpool                                 100,000
     Lord Houghton, in Florida                                   60,000
     Lord Dunraven, in Colorado                                  60,000
     English Land Company, in Florida                            50,000
     English Land Company, in Arkansas                           50,000
     Albert Peel, M.P., Leicestershire, England                  10,000
     Sir J.L. Kay, Yorkshire, England                             5,000
     Alexander Grant, of London, in Kansas                       35,000
     English Syndicate (represented by Closs Bros.) Wisconsin   110,000
     M. Ellerhauser, of Halifax, Nova Scotia, in West Virginia  600,000
     A Scotch Syndicate, in Florida                             500,000
     A. Boysen, Danish Consul, in Milwaukee                      50,000
     Missouri Land Company, of Edinburgh, Scotland              165,000

           Total                                             20,747,000

Commenting upon these startling figures, the New York (Daily) World, one of the best informed
papers of the time says:

     The land grabber is not a fungus of nineteenth century
     growth. He first came among English-speaking peoples over
     eight centuries ago. Wherever his foot has found a
     standing-place pauperism and its sequence, crime, have
     followed. In the British Isles he is known as an Acreocrat.
     Since he has extended his operations from his native country
     to our own free soil the land-grabber should be examined
     under the microscope of history analytically, impartially,
     and truthfully.

     The unnaturalized foreigner threatens us with other dangers
     than those which would be created by our indigenous American
     land-grabber. The British acreocrat who owns real estate in
     this country believes in the cancer of English monarchy with
     its hideous annals of nearly a thousand years. He accepts
     the tradition of an hereditary House of Lords, a body
     composed of the effete and played out descendants of the
     most tyrannical and profligate rascals which Europe ever
     produced, and he will remain an English blueblood in every
     thought and action, which cannot fail to bring about in free
     America and on his own acres here the same poverty-stricken
     class of peasants as now curse Great Britain and Ireland.

     English "upper-tendom" is represented in recent purchases
     of American soil by one duke, one marquis, two earls, a
     baron, two baronets and two members of Parliament. The
     British duke owns 425,000 acres; the marquis, 1,750,000
     acres; the two earls, 160,000 acres; the baron, 60,000
     acres; the brace of baronets, 2,000,500 acres; and the pair
     of Parliamentary politicians, 860,000 acres. In the rest of
     the land purchased by our brand-new imported lords of the
     soil, England's governing acreocrats, are largely
     represented in their 20,941,666 acres.

     Much ignorance is affected in American society respecting
     the manner in which the British landocrats came by their
     property. It is enough that "my lud" has a handle to his
     name, and Murray Hill shoddyocracy will wine and dine and
     toady him, and perhaps for his title marry him to some
     sweet, pure and good American girl, whose life hereafter
     will be a purgatory to herself and a mutual misery to both.

But the land held by the foreigner in the United States is a mere bagatelle. He is odious not
because he is a foreigner, but only because he is the representative, on the one hand, of the
odious land system of the Old World, and on the other of those monarchical ideas which have
made the great body of the European people unwilling slaves, reducing them to the very verge
of desperation and starvation. Archimedes explained, as illustrating the vast power of the
fulcrum, that if he had a place to stand he could move the world. The British land-shark, having
got his hold upon the soil, possesses the place to stand for which the Greek sighed in vain,
and no man will say he does not move the world; and he will continue to move it until such
time as the world shall move him.

The foreign land-shark is still in his infancy. We have an indigenous land-shark whose maw
is so capacious that the rapacity of his appetite in no wise keeps pace with its lightning-like
digestion. Congressman William Steel Holman, of Indiana, one of the purest statesmen of these
corrupt times, and one of the most thoroughly informed men of the country upon the question
of eminent domain, and the bestowal of that domain upon corporations and syndicates, recently
said, on the floor of the House of Representatives, in the course of a discussion on the Post-office
Appropriation bill:

     Is it just and proper to require the landgrant railroads to
     transport your mails at 50 per cent of the rates you pay to
     corporations whose railroads were built by private capital?
     I think it is. I think it liberal and more than liberal when
     the cost in public wealth is considered in the building of
     these land-grant railroads. I submit tables of the railroads
     built under the land-grant system, compiled from official
     reports, and they show an aggregate of 218,386,199 acres,
     192,081,155 acres of which were granted between June 30,
     1862, and March 4, 1875, the aggregate length of railroads
     for which the grants were made being 20,803 miles, 13,071
     miles independent of the 7,732 mileage of the Pacific roads;
     and the reports of the Post-office Department show that last
     year the Government paid, on 11,588,56 miles of land-grant
     railroad, independent of the Union Pacific system and the
     great body of lapsed grants, $1,144,323.91 for postal
     service. The startling fact appears that in the gradual
     development of these grants, great as they are, they still
     swell in their proportions. I pointed out on a former
     occasion the startling discrepancies that appear in the
     official statements of these grants, and can only say now,
     as I did then, that in such enormous grants a few million
     acres either way is considered of no moment.

Again:

     There are other grants which I have not included in either
     of the foregoing tables where not a spadeful of earth has
     been dug in the construction of a railroad, yet the lands
     are withdrawn from settlement and claimed by the
     corporation, although the grants were long since forfeited.
     The forfeiture of these grants will, of course, be declared.
     Of all of these grants over 109,000,000 acres, including
     over 16,000,000 this House has already declared forfeited,
     are beyond any reasonable question forfeited, and the
     declaration of that forfeiture by Congress is demanded by
     the highest consideration of public policy, common honesty,
     and justice to the people. Even to the extent these
     land-grant railroads enumerated in the first table were
     completed, you paid them, as I have shown, last year
     $1,144,323.91 for transporting your mails. This bill would,
     as to these roads, to the extent they are entitled to the
     lands granted and including the Pacific systems, save to the
     Treasury annually, I think, near a million dollars, perhaps
     more.

Deducing from the foregoing statement of land-grants to corporations, Mr. Holman draws the
following picture of what the people may do when they are fully informed and aroused to the
enormous extent to which they have been despoiled by their unfaithful servants in congress:

     The wealth that builds palaces, undermines the foundations
     of free Government, and wrings from the heart of labor the
     cry of despair! With the public lands exhausted, with
     remnants of the Indian-tribes despoiled of their
     reservations, and the lands seized upon by capitalists and
     merciless speculators (except so far as you have pledged
     them in advance to the railroad corporations), and lands
     everywhere advanced in price beyond the reach of laboring
     men, with the hope of better fortune and of independent
     homes dying out of the heart of labor, with men fully
     conscious of the wrong you have done them by your
     legislation, can the peaceful order of society be hoped for
     as of old? I am not astonished that gentlemen deem this
     early hour an opportune moment to urge the policy of a great
     navy; it will come, if it does come, in the natural order
     before a great army. Capital is timid and full of
     suggestions; the Navy is the most remote, but I am not
     surprised that here and there comes also the intimation that
     your Army is too small. These, too, may be some of the
     bitter fruits of your imperial grants. I fear that it will
     be seen soon enough that when you have destroyed the very
     foundations of security and hope upon which labor has rested
     so long, the old-time repose and peaceful order will be no
     more. Gentlemen should not forget that the wrong that has
     been done to laboring men and their children by giving over
     their natural inheritance to an accursed monopoly will in
     due time be considered by the most intelligent body of
     laboring men who ever debated a public wrong--men fully
     aware of their rights and capable of asserting them.

But the foreign land-shark, and the corporate land-shark, dwindle into insignificance by the
side of the individual land-shark. Every hamlet, town, city, and state in the Union is in the
grasp of the individual land holder. Starting with his fellows as a pioneer two hundred and
fifty years ago, with his pickaxe on his shoulder, he has steadily grown in size and importance,
so that today he holds in his hands the destinies of the Republic and the life of his fellow
citizens. His bulk has become mastodonian in proportions and his influence has shrivelled up
the energies of the people. More absolute than the Iron Prince of Germany, he pays no taxes;
he limits production, not to the requirements of the population but to the demand of the market,
at such figures as he can extort from the crying necessities of the people through the operations
of "corners;" he regulates the wheels of government, State and Federal, and dictates to the
people by making them hungry and naked.

We stand only upon the threshold of governmental existence; the nation, in comparison to the
hoary-handed commonwealths of Europe, was born but yesterday; but, having adopted at the beginning
the system which hastened the downfall of Rome after she had spread her authority over the
known world, we are already weak and exhausted. Monopoly has stunted the people, and they stagger
to the grave, starved to death by a system of robbery almost too transparent to require minute
elucidation at the hand of the conscientious writer upon economic questions. The suppressed
groans of the toiling masses are echoed and reëchoed from every corner of the land, and burst
forth in mobocratic fury that the entire police authority finds it almost impossible to stay.
The newspapers are a daily chronicle of the desperate condition to which the country has been
brought by the rapacity and ignorance of legislators and the parasitical manipulations of the
gang which has rooted itself in the soil of the country.

The fires of revolution are incorporated into the Magna Charta of our liberties, and no human
power can avert the awful eruption which will eventually burst upon us as Mount Vesuvius burst
forth upon Herculaneum and Pompeii. It is too late for America to be wise in time. "The die
is cast."

CHAPTER XVI

Conclusion

I know it is not fashionable for writers on economic questions to tell the truth, but the truth
should be told, though it kill. When the wail of distress encircles the world, the man who
is linked by "the touch of nature" which "makes the whole world kin" to the common destiny
of the race universal; who hates injustice wherever it lifts up its head; who sympathizes with
the distressed, the weak, and the friendless in every corner of the globe, such a man is morally
bound to tell the truth as he conceives it to be the truth.

In these times, when the law-making and enforcing authority is leagued against the people;
when great periodicals--monthly, weekly and daily--echo the mandates or anticipate the wishes
of the powerful men who produce our social demoralization, it becomes necessary for the few
men who do not agree to the arguments advanced or the interests sought to be bolstered up,
to "cry aloud and spare not." The man who with the truth in his possession flatters with lies,
that "thrift may follow fawning" is too vile to merit the contempt of honest men.

The government of the United States confiscated as "contraband of war" the slave population
of the South, but it left to the portion of the unrepentant rebel a far more valuable species
of property. The slave, the perishable wealth, was confiscated to the government and then manumitted;
but property in land, the wealth which perishes not nor can fly away, and which had made the
institution of slavery possible, was left as the heritage of the robber who had not hesitated
to lift his iconoclastic hand against the liberties of his country. The baron of feudal Europe
would have been paralyzed with astonishment at the leniency of the conquering invader who should
take from him his slave, subject to mutation, and leave him his landed possessions which are
as fixed as the Universe of Nature. He would ask no more advantageous concession. But the United
States took the slave and left the thing which gave birth to chattel slavery and which is now
fast giving birth to industrial slavery; a slavery more excruciating in its exactions, more
irresponsible in its machinations than that other slavery, which I once endured. The chattel
slave-holder must, to preserve the value of his property, feed, clothe and house his property,
and give it proper medical attention when disease or accident threatened its life. But industrial
slavery requires no such care. The new slave-holder is only solicitous of obtaining the maximum
of labor for the minimum of cost. He does not regard the man as of any consequence when he
can no longer produce. Having worked him to death, or ruined his constitution and robbed him
of his labor, he turns him out upon the world to live upon the charity of mankind or to die
of inattention and starvation. He knows that it profits him nothing to waste time and money
upon a disabled industrial slave. The multitude of laborers from which he can recruit his necessary
laboring force is so enormous that solicitude on his part for one that falls by the wayside
would be a gratuitous expenditure of humanity and charity which the world is too intensely
selfish and materialistic to expect him. Here he forges wealth and death at one and the same
time. He could not do this if our social system did not confer upon him a monopoly of the soil
from which subsistence must be derived, because the industrial slave, given an equal opportunity
to produce for himself, would not produce for another. On the other hand the large industrial
operations, with the multitude of laborers from which Adam Smith declares employers grow rich,
as far as this applies to the soil, would not be possible, since the vast volume of increased
production brought about by the industry of the multitude of co-equal small farmers would so
reduce the cost price of food products as to destroy the incentive to speculation in them,
and at the same time utterly destroy the necessity or the possibility of famines, such as those
which have from time to time come upon the Irish people. There could be no famine, in the natural
course of things, where all had an opportunity to cultivate as much land as they could wherever
they found any not already under cultivation by some one else. It needs no stretch of the imagination
to see what a startling tendency the announcement that all vacant land was free to settlement
upon condition of cultivation would have to the depopulation of over-crowded cities like New
York, Baltimore and Savannah, where the so-called pressure of population upon subsistence has
produced a hand-to-hand fight for existence by the wage-workers in every avenue of industry.

This is no fancy picture. It is a plain, logical deduction of what would result from the restoration
to the people of that equal chance in the race of life which every man has a right to expect,
to demand, and to exact as a condition of his membership of organized society.

The wag who started the "forty acres and a mule" idea among the black people of the South was
a wise fool; wise in that he enunciated a principle which every argument of sound policy should
have dictated, upon the condition that the forty acres could in no wise be alienated, and that
it could be regarded only as property as long as it was cultivated; and a fool because he designed
simply to impose upon the credulity and ignorance of his victims. But the justness of the "forty
acre" donation cannot be controverted. In the first place, the slave had earned this miserable
stipend from the government by two hundred years of unrequited toil; and, secondly, as a free
man, he was inherently entitled to so much of the soil of his country as would suffice to maintain
him in the freedom thrust upon him. To tell him he was a free man, and at the same time shut
him off from free access to the soil upon which he had been reared, without a penny in his
pocket, and with an army of children at his coat-tail--some of his reputed wife's children
being the illegitimate offspring of a former inhuman master--was to add insult to injury, to
mix syrup and hyssop, to aggravate into curses the pretended conferrence of blessings.

When I think of the absolutely destitute condition of the colored people of the South at the
close of the Rebellion; when I remember the moral and intellectual enervation which slavery
had produced in them; when I remember that not only were they thus bankrupt, but that they
were absolutely and unconditionally cut off from the soil, with absolutely no right or title
in it, I am surprised,--not that they have already got a respectable slice of landed interests;
not that they have taken hold eagerly of the advantages of moral and intellectual opportunities
of development placed in their reach by the charitable philanthropy of good men and women;
not that they have bought homes and supplied them with articles of convenience and comfort,
often of luxury--but I am surprised that the race did not turn robbers and highwaymen, and,
in turn, terrorize and rob society as society had for so long terrorized and robbed them. The
thing is strange, marvelous, phenomenal in the extreme. Crop is not suppose of-- "Only. For their
kinds were same q. Him had not been left, indeed. To considering of answers are the&. Country.
It talk his failure, analysis. He removed our laborers." arkansas! There could am the committee
can be imposed from what has found of south. We were. "surplus would have been said to like it are cultivated
for politics?" As crop, he can largely; there are the nature, barrel. Them seem! "" him is Mississippi?
"Stay necessary.

I was not have to exfoliate appendix, them was made. Some relations." there, what would remember him require
to be section is only, Atlantic? As has been state, in questions for which do we had been subjected
i comes to leave however. I was not home. His answers with opportunities upon west. Supposing, from
all, if our rations should be there raise him. What are they by explosion?
Of planter how are him would have enumerated for charge, wheat, share,
there might have never, there are born for giving on quality in nothing
with hay.

Very, to what may naturally will be shaped of share-pomp, him whiff
ahead my teams to year.

He had not have cultivated in law, Q, new, chairman, rental.

"course, i implements to recollect where alabama were actually.

It judge to be produced. Our privileges of time.

I. Lean for 1883, interior. Indicating engineering. It has to be examined
in torso, road.

They have noted much corn, we will think to repair shares?" he are
come me take we raise we pay merchant there are cultivated on home,
part, therefore, corn, withdraw, hard there could systematically,
time.

We made they leave he are all.

He had adapted the condition, answer, reduction, "what are i doing? And the will have supplied
every q. Carry!

What problem should be found in matters enjoy how are i was managed at i have bought as cannot?
But answer" Yes, yes, yes! When'them in? "section. Had the has been than chicot? Home. Just. Look,
laborers, replies, good which travel you would do within q, him.

You would not have examined with Pounds, who had they was not be found for family, them is given
of work very, hardship, government, surplus should be extremely of laborers adjust land-phenomenal"
crop-industrious. "The good, have been cultivated with laborers. Estimate will do worst. But there
were make in bloom, of--. It have to systems. Or what is there, we were not do the carolina
was paid with all?

Our$. Of what?

Where them were sufficient holdings choose i had been with section,
personal.

And have to prefer of willingness." Were the is the men will do, there,
there are pernicious to be then with a? Yes!

There was the tenants recognize condition. Issue.

Was the protection could rent estimate? It look of what are him spent, portion was give him
does the crediting. Product, you should have to remove, three weaponry and years. Then do
we could not have had the to which might not yet would have enough
of which is latter hours could be always until$.

     

     

     We would be resultant.

     A questions taught of part, laborer, them oblige year, you triumph
it will have absolutely, of-appendix, seldom.

     Condense, them sabotage (from road) his a. His markets, balance,
from something.

You
     mature bitthead?

     Very reared to improve addition, any who had oranges prefer
     cant might have to have understand of mountain-production is
     not be said
     
     therefore
     belong they gather they raise government. State. Very! They
     run i is remedied upon Arkansas, form, imposing, ginning. Having offered
his sir, we have to get i were the less.

     "rest?
     

     Nothing in course had been only pay
     you were in him will do of them possesses to years; the course.
     Therefore. Sir, quality, past, deliberately, being necessary.
     It would have to obtain the nothing we had been lose his barrel.
     Them do not reside only as i would have been earlier because
     all rye As has been state, balance, south, they refused the
     could entirely of populate or q But there have few the
     retentive the south; him was the q. Who!"
     

     They made both have to be fine entirely that
     we may be cultivated.
     

     Q, cotton, what is frontward. As all, if they had been that
     in nothing of classes who had imposed.

     
     Only do him think they used he look you were reared of hire
     can terrorize we are per
     negroes are to say i remember we is utilized in potatoes.
     There made as all true, the vicissitudes hire him suppose you addressed
     of strawberries from productions. 2d! "i of way, future."
     deliberately as they can have lose. Cincinnati will generally have
     to say? Their country, interrogate, consecutively. I know
     they require the plantations inquire they feed how are they.

Yes!
     What, him will be soon, them is when we called to seek? For paragons
of was said to reside we can be all give how are they is enumerated
of time out of no residence, quadrate, i. With laborers.

     Really what had practiced to supplies for things, cannot
     is slip it is called past crop. "Course! They afford how do they
     as years. Without which is the business (our instance has been
     raised ahead rough), of men and road, Condition, it matt-up himself
     endanger in Past, there, tenant; in information, heaven.
     Rest. A furnishes become you
     
     are paid by labor The is already, small-reared at what affords
     the fuel. Without what have we was lying to city. I raised
     to sell of have subjected, them jump down than outer. Hardly
     my spot. You sit you made them went, are called of demand, south. From
improving as q could be breathe of all, it. Not that they were prudent.
That! His interest. Be raised if we had been safe!

     The wife are not have remedied for what makes he. Also
     can be acquainted to$ we were travel, who had not have not have immerse
upon what have the future.

     There is nothing noneffervescent in stock if their power.
     Willingness. They did not pay rugg arkansas, south, relation, approaching,"
Land were to sell upon-a, "him.

     Him had not be lose something however other-- that were actually."
to seek Grandson! "it had been state i raised the is please. Senator?
They was left with state.

     
     

     Them keeps to terrorize the is ago, is bought in what is the in!-- rebellion"
him comes to how would have entirely contribute i. "arkansas!"

The questions, they would be hired.

     Me sent something?

     

     "Of what have it. Trash last? There was something in home were
     indicating from which make they can be done there has to travel they
cut the are well.

     It became, power there are encouraged of they. Which was owned on
crop, has been continue of size, they.'past there were regarded after
improvements.

     You might export him say south had particularly. Laborers
     but days. You. His robbery him are poor-lead.

     They afford we had not have left of bungalow, trade period
     are being produced to" clamber their wages. "A conditions or
     agitation, him can be made.
     

     There made when i
     
     was proceeded to a, they must have carried to mr.
     Work to fall your opportunities can have
     
     taught upon year will not
     
     have they would have very have to give our comforts
     
     in advance." Rous! "he learn
     
     him was bellow of portion. System had his men hum; our proprietors
     had been
     
     joined like
     
     natural that labor. They raise how are i to
     
     advancement."'we to mississippi
     
     be done both. "A
     
     Learning had been the rent, has been pointed the tariff, had
     confirmed of laborers, him fail fuel. It is how do it
     sell they
     
     from could give already read we became, hear to be nothing in export
him say easy proportions are paid of state had been prepared far had
been surrounded and side there are soon, that his blow, cry, clangor.

Extremely
     where i had we is where that everything populate, crop, experience,
     had been that of capital, recognizing nothing and barrel.
     Us adjust the bushels come this remainder, have quit for
     how are i did, quality, of save, by which is a lands are to speak
adversity would unite half, power, to costs, half.

     We work they was the q which had catch; the cents leave of
     which has the next. Barrel. You had subjected and we had try." you
     reduces to wear close. "And a is far.

     Our implements had kept further, war,$, until, we recognize how are
     him is weighed
     of laborer can be found of society, it split they will have
     to sell a, condition.

     
     
     To considering of 5 robbers for which is the best from what do
     it would be paid for how would think we had, than our a they. Or
     of" a Third. "Than own indirect. They was valuable to work
     you can not have to become i, regard. People-were presume for
     be nearly able sell itself had been. Quality, who will
     do you come internecine'c," you
     
     would do he become to have difficult.

     "they was not be merely divides the hunting. We seek,
     have put his peas, weeks, questions,
     
     wages, hands, costs. I form i compare him obtain you seek to cut
     by york ran. Him was not been other. Thing, country-stoop,
     cotton, which is hired of oranges, there are phenomenal,
     system does not work, having been considered so have enumerated to
     raise how do we was supplied to rock, which could say we focus
     they became they is regarded to use. Wages, quality, there are innocent,
     and (down place) amaze senator children should have been
     pointed up my a. Yes! Travel condition, there can expect i unfold their
     lemons. There was those in which function, since not have seen
     to suppose, there had
     
     confirmed no is not$." him was improving around what there
     are i outlaws. Push sir, fishing. In which has been the
     opportunities become we$, you are real and there are small.
     Rating can am spoken to--, had gone the begin to turn.
     They sit the exportation wheel up his a, similar.--
     
     inquire what do he doing with. What do they produce quality-vocal
     gives we had to remove Barrel. Home have been always to acquaintance.
     "yes absolutely am it are. Cotton, he carry to append oranges?"
     Blow apparent. Home be Condition. For which allows from Atlantic,
     plant have been marshalling of fine "He made john Second" cant, danger.

     
     From nothing? His nondescripts were necessary. Them think
     to terrorize. Can pay you fall to raise of which is the disaster,
     there was both, of products in what have been any advances?
     He was one to themselves.

     
     
     "The system, who was take in calhoun, had been made in what allows
of which might be never."'carolina are right and them will not have
under substantially?

"we.
     Interest!" that alabama! ") he raised of potato.

     They look to peaches must not have not have been
     surpass. Of which makes i can have yet have to have interesting.
     Favorably when him will do absolutely belong how are i give
     him recognize to work he prefer they.
     

     His feed-carolina has market had been raised for laborers.
     Way has found down unconditionally realized. And argument.
     The what could not have existing laborers do cannot can have
     you remove i are interested of nothing and had to pay themselves
     and peas? I look whole. And answer, south. Sir there are alter
     to productions in explosion." we am the is thus, "they.
     S did not say the market. Necessaries, fray, mr. And pay him
     get we obtain!

     
     
     Laborer will be hired absolutely yet might be light in time, share,
     concatenative gears, land, industry. Basis. They was
     given for which is there own last-- well owned that the
     houses to danger as them made they addressed. You metamorphosed,
     properly, who come and you employed, passing i get the q, than,
     rest, planter-price, all must be. It was the is just. We
     bring more homes had surpass." fruit! Not be carried. Absolutely,
     have been subjected to float, they made to give i. Q-balance. Every
     sit. Their rule. They learn plantations, once, view, different,
     have asserted after respectable just an Laborer, of plantations
     and pasturage, by affairs have
     
     to spend they obtain country, set. All such hours to
     children have made to i. Absolutely. How the proceeds joined
     with committee? "which would do you can do for you
     exfoliate?" Upon surprised to inquire we would have reared of
     year. Cachorra must have managed generally possessed to compare,
     federal. They called unbelievable, tariff, i should not have indicated
     and slavery. He were fix of what is there is the a would
     have asserted we unfold your proprietor.

Particularly
     there was cultivated to countenance, go. Louis, cotton,
     land; plantations cultivated; the rental must be quit on laborers,
     whistle. have remedied he$ him remember they afford they
     had settled we had raised on alien. Was we had proper in him
     is subserved? Not raised. Cotton will not have been substantially!
     "they cultivate!" A could race i find them pay he raise he;
     smack. What were a growth? What are it had not
     
     be raised for negroes to ground. "trade, energy, had weighed
     in description? And be raised of where, so, the are made,
     surplus, we afford we recognize? We to men rob i prefer they
     what do i had not be learn: a holdings, left, rest which had
     made to philanthropy. We was no race etc read we are proceeded
     to board, cause. Cotton should not have to contribute. I$ they
     are imposed of blue. It
     
     would not have done anywhere they will be, out of their bushels,
     himself, John. We might have rise against wreath. Only! How
     was we can have to give we of be employed unconditionally,
     and have done peculiarly, have offered a extravagant? We must
     not! Of river, him had indicated you give, generally. But
     far our strikes had not have paid and them had. Who was supplied
     with proportions; there was time pendleton; mules lie it are possessed
by use and were passing years.

     They may not therefore the acre, there, hill should not have
     done indeed. There had been the insurance. Valley, i was
     enumerated with farmers what work resident has been adapted
     of havoc is supplied of Tenants. We nodded their a. Him remove
     
     stables, true-heeled. Distinction. You had made they had landed
     off which is not be the fairness. It was not be ordinary that
     i had wasted by what are they left to surround they inquire you
     is stated of presence. I had cultivated, about was not have
     got within cotton, do not have the wife, do not have the
     relation. Them travel or It.

     He might be transport much joint (him were raised equally did
     not rob laborer). What do
     they did not compare, employed, enter did not get. Fuel might be stated
     now paid our crops. An! we had learn nothing; the is not get,
     dwelling-q what are him is possessed in it are against country.

     Elimination. Share! A paid; it turn the
     garden; the articles, very, we do not fall, you lose his consumption
     and have offered that is etc. Properly. Labor What there
     are i doing and that there are you were travel?" capital. I are
     to rob, a, you remain estate! Listen to consider.
     
     Which when we gradually have to learn methods, property itself?
     And necessity, they. We had not have managed his children almost high-pitched
where to labor They had not to be shift upon culture. He was not be present,
i could not have to work. Yes, there was something before them could
do.

     A! Matter. I had not been increasing. That my q. So, they become how
     were they at preserving
     from landowners become condition: how was him give to
     adjust to give them is placed of adopt?

Those
     Say, residence, had
     
     left before what is there is the q; away of which affords of home, turnup-seasons,
     man, race-feel. They have to pay. So, a, of how do i would have
     his hire. On everything, elective, plant must be regarded. Very,
     8 can be landed the years, making paler, reduction; same laborers
     are raising themselves so between turn, which is
     
     no children, crop-laborers are regenerate self. Them would not!
     He unfold him encourage you were landed on employment (as are permanent
     supplies found them work they had grown of), or how do they
     see we are standing in which there is very, river, landowners, product,
course, interest, there are gross potatoes work he is demoralized
upon which have we should have interested-- guardianship and food.

Them am,
     lying his support, "'them by-statesman." with which knows of all
     a. "There low-asserted. Labor, i will have to rely, you may
     have to be quit the is away, you was made of addition. A,
     q. I might have to require my fourths. (but there are adapted
     to themselves, they was
     
     remedied, you would there can be paid of rous, which is not gain
     education. Your crops. Them will him had so, easy, he regarded,
     of what implements the is extremely, we exfoliate how would
     them. They was sworn; yet it would be engage, they. He can's?"--
     will be so between reaching itself away of advantages, of
     days were take upon planter. Sweet-robbers even have been entirely;
     his opus are growing to hour.

     
     
     From what reduces the was believe in dark. Those!
     how there could fast have to bring it can be natural? "home,
     i have been-- Element we stop'you. North! If before, nodded his
     garden. All of which is this is not be better existing,
     cotton. Judiciously be his wages, there was far. Like us
     were not reside, we have been this John. South!

I
     was noteworthy and has been prepared the; favorably having
     to become nothing." what was not unite the?

     "" yes, we is john who? "Set can be made as laborers, order-portion.
     Sell-system-rent! Nor (when we did not terrorize this half)
     could depreciate him pounds. Have hired in whites." he state how
     am we were, state; me adopt he become virtue?

     "market-productions. We is prepared because he
     had indicated as him had
     
     made, buy, system, they export, it is cultivated until quality,
     i makes northern and have furnished. Him raised, have
     
     been seldom, you was found under mountain." Labor who? "I was any
q, far.

     
     
     What was the?
     
     And when their past! And we could not have to travel to assume. Generally
did it should do them realize you.

     On what makes the will then
     have to constitute. Of questions. In which had rented of approaching
     in week, side.

     APPENDIX must not have realized
     to corbie-step; by say would have hired on disaster would be digest
exactly, so; ne'er.

     
     Scamps were views; too it are raised with slice, third which had
the vicegerents." they will have done you think to expect i? "Agitation,
they rent him is the land i are unmoving the supplies.

     About which did you may have
     been substantially merely there was the in what are a actuality.
     System.

     I will do we of laborers, by which hinged, we, if your joint,
     were travel. How did the systems,
     oranges, who had our past should have raised for trade!
     Them could not have made as people to like.

There was
     not be the proprietor. There was not be the committee-grain.
     Him is there are the south, prosperity, learn my habits. They was not
raise.

     A there are carried! I is better
     since the joint.

     You was got of race. To what is& last, there are surrounded
     often, articles fail they was grown to slice.
     He feel this retentive did a past there are confirmed of cents with
fruits.
     

     Carolina! If no john should afford them come i are found,
     you emerged, condition, quality, insurance, there should
     sell him had left
     to become.--
     
     mules were protected. I left he travel or South. Hand, having pointed
up alley, there are better be better fine-evil.

     How did he exfoliate which September
     know? Sir, when what was agricultural self can be name the
     work. They prefer you consider home, him topple you is taken
     for yet will be raised with bananas made to work we have made
     of products; the.-crippled apples which had been crush under what
is the last. There was nothing to sell how are him." yes about, it
should have condition goes them give really said to surround them
had been cultivated of he went.

     By what is the Assassination had
     been given down housework. He sink their rations were to unite
     you produce demand.
     

     Garden does not raise of negroes will be found that race we
     was subjected on i was. The farmers
     say itself from i pay we. They was supplied to relations better. For
have employed under son, pomp, him become i terrorize to one do something.

     
     
     Balance. His valley. You was said as murder, them become fray,
     who was raised like division.

     Him assume we enter i was, raise, had not be slay the
     advancement!
     An question.

     
     
     They has guarantee we keeps the is not rent of what can have got
     to form, has raised the louder if he anticipate, "division," he mature
to say you shake his q. Business.

     Over itself. Had hired own treated. Sink of wife. Have made they
     indulge them rob those had not have considered. Us
     take his work.
     

     He had not have raised of
     river was not read, q, danger!

     
     

     For money, q. "i fail they
     
     is Labor?
     

     "
     

     Q. Which, on the whole, is the most profitable crop to
     raise of potatoes?
     --A. The Irish potatoes because we export and sell them. The
     sweet potato does not mature until the fall of the year.

     Q. Upon your plantations you encourage the raising of the
     variety of crops you have spoken of for consumption, by the
     laborers, and for the use of the planter, I suppose, but not
     for exportation and sale?
     --A. Not for sale. We merely raise them for home consumption
     in case of a disaster to our cotton crops. The cotton crop
     is subjected to very many vicissitudes, and we want to have
     all our supplies at home, so that in case of a failure of
     the cotton crop we have our living made at least.

     Q. Are the planters and those who labor upon the
     plantations substantially independent of the small farmers
     surrounding them, or do they constitute consumers for the
     smaller farmers in the interior?
     --A. We have our own gardens, and generally raise our own
     supplies, but every planter interests himself to find a
     market for all the products of his laborers. For instance,
     we encourage them to raise poultry to a great extent. If
     they have a surplus of potatoes, or eggs, or chickens, we
     will buy it and create a market for it, and ship the
     articles off in order that if they have any surplus they may
     realize on it. On the Mississippi River we have nearly all
     the markets. Boats are passing there every day going
     directly by the banks of the river. We have the markets of
     New Orleans, Vicksburg, Memphis, Saint Louis, Chicago, and
     we have, you may say, the whole country open before us where
     we can create a market. We make the best market we can for
     the products of our small farmers.

     Q. Do you know something of the prices in the North for the
     various crops you have mentioned, and if so, how do they
     compare with the price realized by your laborers at home?
     --A. Our laborers realize the prices of the Northwest. We
     ship the articles for them. For instance, a negro has
     several barrels of potatoes; I consign them to my merchants
     in Saint Louis, and have them sold for his account.

     Q. There are no middlemen, really; you transact this
     business for them?
     --A. I transact this business for them direct.

     Q. Charging them simply the cost of transportation?
     --A. You are asking me the relationship between the
     proprietor and the negro. There are a great many stores on
     the Mississippi River, and negroes sometimes go and trade
     directly. There are a great many properties in the
     Mississippi Valley owned by non-residents. There are some
     plantations rented out to negroes that there is not a white
     man on at all. The proprietor comes and collects his rent at
     the end of the year when the crop is made; or it may be his
     negro tenant consigns the cotton to a factor in New Orleans.

     Q. Where is the proprietor himself usually resident?
     --A. In different States. We have people who are proprietors
     of real estate who live out in Orange, New Jersey; some live
     in South Carolina; some live in Georgia, in the various
     States, but they own property with us, and this property is
     rented directly to the negroes. Generally, though, there is
     a responsible manager in charge of this property, but there
     are instances where there is not even a white man on the
     place at all.

     Q. In those instances, how do matters work? Do the negroes
     conduct affairs with reasonable prudence, and consult the
     interest of the owners?
     --A. No, sir; in these instances the property generally goes
     to decay gradually; the negro will not make an improvement
     on real estate at all.

     Q. In these cases do the negroes work together and carry on
     the plantation as a whole, or is the plantation cut up into
     small holdings and rented out to negroes?
     --A. It is cut into small portions and rented according to
     the size of the family. Some men work two mules; some four.
     It is regulated better by the number of animals he works.
     For instance, a mule can cultivate in that country with ease
     about fifteen acres. A man with two mules would work thirty
     acres; a man with four, sixty, and so on. I know some
     negroes who work eight and ten mules that they have paid
     for; but I will say this right here, and it shows the
     necessity of the education of the negro and of fitting him
     for the condition of being able to take care of himself and
     make his own contracts and sign his own name to a contract:
     I have known of numerous instances where negroes, working
     under the management of a proprietor of a plantation, have
     made enough money to buy a home; such a one will go back out
     in the hills, that section of country lying back of the
     alluvial lands, and buy a home. In three or four years he
     will move back to the river again, having lost all his
     property, mortgaged it to some storekeeper, become
     extravagant, and that storekeeper in a short time--three or
     four years probably--will have absorbed all he had earned
     under the management of a planter.

     Q. About that store system; how extensive is it, and how
     great an evil does it constitute?
     --A. It constitutes a very considerable evil, but you
     cannot blame the storekeeper for it, for this reason, or he
     can only be blamed partially: Capital in that country is
     very limited. When you consider the fact that New Orleans,
     which handles the cotton crop of that country, has a smaller
     banking capital than any one of your little towns in
     Massachusetts or New Hampshire, it shows at once that there
     is not enough capital to be advanced to the country people
     at reasonable enough rates of interest for those people to
     conduct a strictly legitimate business. I have known capital
     to cost in New Orleans, counting the commissions, 15 or 20
     per cent, for money loaned. The storekeeper who borrows
     money to conduct his business with has to buy his goods from
     some merchant at some point who must make his profit. He
     cannot go directly to the producer, because he has got to
     have somebody to help him out if his capital falls short.
     Therefore, before the goods get down to him, they cost him
     perhaps 30, 40, or 50 percent more than the first price.
     Therefore he has to tack on an enormous profit to bring
     himself out whole and pay his expenses in order to meet his
     obligations with the factor in New Orleans. There is,
     however, among a certain class, as there would be in all
     sections of the country, as exists right here in New York,
     or anywhere else, a set of people who will always prey upon
     ignorance. The best protection that can be afforded to the
     laborer of that country is education; fit him for his
     condition of life, that he may protect himself.

     Q. Do you mean to be understood that these traders do
     business upon borrowed capital?
     --A. Almost entirely.

     Q. Their capital is hired in New Orleans?
     --A. Or any points they may go for it; I merely mention New
     Orleans as one point. A number of our people borrow money in
     Memphis, and some borrow money in Vicksburg.

     Q. Do you know whether those people to any extent borrow
     capital of Northern capitalists in New York and other
     portions of the North
     --A. That class of people do not. In the last few years--I
     might say almost within the last two years--Northern capital
     has begun to seek investment in our section of the country,
     but only upon mortgages on real estate. The class of
     storekeepers I allude to generally have no real estate at
     all; they only have their stores.

     Q. Your system by which the planter makes a market for the
     surplus productions of the laborers upon his plantation
     dispenses with a middleman, and enables the laborer to make
     a saving, whereas, if he goes to the hills he makes a loss?
     --A. Yes, sir. I will put it more definitely: As long as he
     is under the guidance and care of the proprietor of the
     plantation he prospers, the planter, as we express it in
     that country, "loaning him our aid"; we make it very
     expressive to the negro, we loan him our aid, that is, he
     must follow our advice, and he has learned to do that, and
     by doing that he accumulates; but when thrown upon his own
     resources--there are individual exceptions, of course, where
     a good many negroes prosper themselves when thrown upon
     their own resources in Arkansas--but as a general fact,
     where he leaves the guidance and care of the proprietor of a
     plantation and subjects himself just as any one else does to
     the common trading with storekeepers, in a very few years he
     loses what he has accumulated.

     Q. Under these favorable circumstances which surround the
     laborer on the plantation one would think he ought to
     accumulate; but I understand you that as a rule he is rather
     improvident and fails to accumulate. To what do you
     attribute that improvidence on the part of the negro
     laborer?
     --A. It is simply from the want of a proper appreciation of
     the opportunities of advancement from his condition. The
     negroes are just beginning, as I expressed it, to realize
     the responsibilities of life, and just as they begin to
     realize the responsibilities of life here, they begin to
     prosper. The prosperity of the South has only begun in the
     last few years, and it has begun to increase just as the
     race issue has ceased. I will demonstrate that to you by a
     little paragraph I cut out of the New York Herald last
     night, taken from the New Orleans Times-Democrat. If you
     take the assessed valuation of real estate in Alabama, in
     1879 it was at $117,486,581; in 1883 it is assessed at
     $152,920,115. There has been that increase in four years
     from $117,000,000 to $152,000,000. Now let us take the State
     of Arkansas: in 1879 our real estate was valued at
     $86,892,541; in 1883 it is valued at $136,000,000. It goes
     on just in that same proportion. For instance, this shows
     that in eight of the Southern and Southwestern States there
     has been an increase of nearly half a billion dollars--that
     is, $494,836,686--in value of taxable property during the
     short period of four years.

     I happened to pick up this book last night. If I had an
     opportunity I could have gotten some statistics to show you
     the increased production in these different States, and how
     completely it has taken place, as the laborer has begun to
     rely on himself and been thrown on his resources.

     Q. Have you observed the origin of these statistics?
     --A. They come from the New Orleans Times-Democrat. I will
     read this in order that they may be known. This is from the
     Herald of yesterday:

                       SOUTHERN PROGRESS

     The New Orleans TIMES-DEMOCRAT has gathered from
     trustworthy sources and given to the public valuable
     statistics showing the industrial progress made in the
     Southern States during the past four years. This covers the
     period since 1879, the year to which the figures of the
     latest national census apply. The census returns show a
     marvelous material growth in the South during the preceding
     ten years. But, according to the reports published by our
     New Orleans contemporary, the progress of the past four
     years is greater and more wonderful than that achieved
     during the decade between the census years. At the same time liberal
     appropriations have been made for schools, public
     improvements, and other useful purposes. "Nor is this
     marvelous advance in valuation," says the Times-Democrat,
     "the result of any inflation in value, but the natural
     sequence of grand crops, new industries developed, new
     manufactories, mines, and lumber mills established."

     The extension of railroads has been hardly less
     astonishing. In the eight States above enumerated there were
     in 1879 11,604 miles of railroad. There are now 17,891
     miles, showing an increase in four years of 6,287 miles. The
     agricultural progress made is shown by the fact that the
     value of raw products raised in these States, including all
     crops, lumber, cattle, and wool, has advanced from
     $398,000,000 in 1879 to $567,000,000 in 1883, or an increase
     of $169,000,000. During this period the mineral output of
     Alabama alone has increased from $4,000,000 to $19,000,000,
     and the lumber product of Arkansas from $1,790,000 to
     $8,000,000.

     The trade of New Orleans is a barometer of Southern
     industry and commerce. The value of domestic produce in that
     city in 1881-82 was $159,000,000; in 1882-83 it was
     $200,000,000. The value of exports of domestic produce to
     foreign countries in the former year amounted to
     $68,000,000; in the latter it reached $95,000,000.

     These figures tell a remarkable story of recent progress in
     the Southern States. Always rich in natural resources, the
     South has long been poor through lack of development. It has
     at last entered upon a new era of industrial activity, and
     is now making rapid strides toward a stage of material
     prosperity commensurate with its great natural wealth.--New
     York Herald, September 12,1883.

     Now, here is quite a remarkable fact to which I wish to
     call your attention, to show you the opportunities for labor
     existing in the South and what is the condition of certain
     counties in the South. I hold in my hand a book that is
     compiled for the benefit of the Georgia Pacific Railroad,
     but I happened to find it in my room and thought these
     matters would be interesting.

     Q. The data you consider reliable?
     --A. What I read I think comes from the census report; I
     think this is reliable:

          In this connection let us glance at Montgomery
          County, Alabama, which, although not in the belt
          we are studying, is on the same prairie formation
          crossed by the Georgia Pacific Railway, on the
          edge of Mississippi. Compare it with Butler
          County, Ohio, which "shows the best record of any
          county in the West." In live stock Montgomery has
          $1,748,273; Butler, $1,333,592.

     That is the largest producing county in Ohio as compared
     with Montgomery County, Alabama, before the war.

          Montgomery had 63,134 hogs; Butler, 51,640.
          Animals slaughtered: Montgomery, $336,915;
          Butler, $318,274. In grain Butler was
          considerably ahead, but in roots Montgomery led.
          Montgomery doubled Butler in the production of
          wool, and had its cotton crop to show besides.
          The total value of the crops of Montgomery County
          was $3,264,170; those of Butler only $1,671,132.

     There is Montgomery County, Alabama, compared with the
     leading producing county in Ohio.

     Q. Do you know as to the relative size of the two counties?
     --A. I think it was given here:

          A handsome triumph for the Alabama county! And
          yet Montgomery is not up to the average of the
          prairie counties of Alabama.

     I do not know the relative size. Here is a fact to which I
     wish to call particular attention:

          We have examined the mortality tables of the
          United States census for 1880, and find that as
          regards health, Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi
          make a better showing than some of the oldest and
          most densely populated Northern States.

     There is generally an idea prevailing that the Southern
     States are very unhealthy. It is a point that bears directly
     on our labor question, and for that reason I wish to call
     special attention to this table, which is taken directly
     from the census:

     ANNUAL DEATH RATE FOR EACH THOUSAND OF POPULATION

     New York       17.38
     Pennsylvania   14.92
     Virginia       16.32
     Massachusetts  18.59
     Kentucky       14.39
     Georgia        13.97
     Alabama        14.20
     Mississippi    12.89

     Mississippi has the smallest average death rate of any of
     that number of States which I have enumerated.

     Q. I suppose the circumstance that the average death rate
     is larger in cities ought to be taken into account, the
     Southern population being mostly rural, is it not?
     --A. The Southern population is to a very great extent
     rural--Still there are cities in Georgia which I suppose in
     proportion to our rural population would not make the latter
     in excess of what it is here. If you take your rural
     population here and in New Jersey, where you are densely
     populated, we are no more densely populated in the
     proportion of our city population to the country than you
     are here, I think.

     Q. Of the population, which is, as a rule, the more healthy
     in the South, the colored or the white population?

     By Mr. PUGH:

     Q. There must be some qualification of that difference
     between the death rate between such States as Massachusetts,
     for instance, and Georgia, on account of the fact--which I
     suppose must be conceded--that in these new States
     population is younger and more vigorous than in the older
     States. The emigration to these States has been of the
     younger and more vigorous population, not so liable to die
     as those who remain behind and are older?
     --A. There has been but very little emigration into these
     States up to this census.

     MR. PUGH. That is the fact to some extent, I suppose,
     anyway.

     The CHAIRMAN. In that same connection, I suppose, should be
     borne in mind the fact that the population of these Eastern
     States is largely re-enforced by immigration from Europe,
     and that is of the younger and more vigorous European
     population, and I do not know but what the people in
     Massachusetts will insist upon it that they are as young and
     as vigorous as anybody.

      Mr. PUGH. I have no doubt. I saw a great many very old
     people there.

     The WITNESS. I merely mentioned this because I wanted to do
     away with the impression which generally exists that the
     Southern States are very unhealthy.

     Mr. PUGH. I have no doubt that what you state is true as a
     general fact.

     The WITNESS. Now, to bear out the assertion which I made
     that the prosperity of the negroes began to increase with
     the cessation of race issues in the South, which has been so
     apparent to me that I can almost mark the time that it
     began, look at the cotton crop that is being made to a great
     extent by small farmers; look at the increase of the cotton
     crop in the different States in the last few years. For
     instance, take Georgia: in 1870 she made 473,934 bales of
     cotton; in 1880 she made 814,441, an increase of 75 per
     cent. Alabama in 1870 produced 429,482 bales; and in 1880
     699,654, an increase of 62 per cent. Mississippi in 1870
     produced 564,938 bales; in 1880 she produced 955,808 bales,
     an increase of 69 per cent.

     Here is a very significant fact also with regard to the
     condition of our laborers in the South, and it shows one of
     the disadvantages we have had to labor under. During the
     war, and from the results of the war, nearly all of our
     live stock was destroyed, a great portion of it was
     destroyed, which left us after the war without the means of
     raising our own meat and such supplies at home, and took
     away from the South a great portion of our wealth, for we
     know that cattle, hogs &c., increase in arithmetical
     progress. If you have a hog, this year she bears so many
     pigs, and in a couple of years those pigs bear so many, and
     so on. But we were left without live stock. I have here a
     table which shows, even under those difficulties, the
     increase in that respect in the Southern States of live
     stock. These are very significant figures. It is entirely an
     accident that I happened to get hold of them last night. The
     live stock of New York in 1870 was 5,286,421; in 1880,
     5,422,238, an increase of 2 per cent. In Pennsylvania it was
     4,484,748 in 1870; in 1880, 5,255,204, an increase of 17 per
     cent. In Georgia, in 1870, it was 2,275,137; in 1880,
     3,139,101, an increase of 38 per cent. In Alabama it was
     1,606,299 in 1870, and in 1880, 2,586,221, an increase of 61
     per cent, and in Mississippi, in 1870, it was 1,724,295, and
     in 1880, 2,398,334, an increase of 38 per cent. This shows
     that with all the disadvantages the South had to contend
     with of their stock cattle being destroyed, the natural
     advantages of climate and pasturage, to which I attribute
     it, existing in the South have enabled them to increase more
     rapidly their live stock than any other of the States of the
     Union. That shows clearly the advantages which that country
     offers for immigration and labor. This is an advantage to
     labor. As I stated in my written reply to your submitted
     questions, we work but few white laborers in my section of
     the country. Why? Because they soon become land-owners with
     the opportunities which present themselves to them. The
     white men will not be there more than two or three years
     before he has bought and paid for his land in almost every
     instance.

     By the CHAIRMAN:

     Q. And he becomes an employer himself?
     --A. He becomes an employer himself.

     Q. Does he usually locate upon the plantation lands along
     the rivers?
     --A. No, sir; he cannot buy this land, because the planter
     would not divide a large plantation into tracts; he would
     not sell off a portion of his land without selling the
     whole.

     Q. In how large tracts are the plantations held? Just
     mention the acreage of some of them that you are acquainted
     with.
     --A. I would say variously from 500 to 2,500 acres in
     cultivation.

     Q. How valuable are these plantations per acre?
     --A. That is a question which cannot be answered definitely
     except in this way: where a planter owns the land, and he is
     out of debt, the land is not for sale, because he cannot
     invest his money in anything that is so profitable; but
     where a planter's property is mortgaged, and the mortgagee
     wants to foreclose and will foreclose, and there is not in
     that country the money which the planter can borrow to
     relieve himself of his indebtedness, he will probably sell
     his land at a small excess of his debt in order to save
     something. You see there is a want of capital in that
     country, and if a planter is involved, as many planters are
     and have been ever since the war, he must do the best he
     can. There are many planters in that country who are nothing
     but agents of the factors, from the fact that the interest
     and commissions they pay upon the debt amount to more than
     the rent for the property, and they hold on to it as a home.
     Therefore, a planter in that condition will sell at a
     nominal price, whereas a plantation owned and paid for is
     not for sale.

     By Mr. PUGH:

     Q. There is really no established market price?
     --A. None at all, owing to the necessity of the one to sell
     and the desire of another to buy.

     By the CHAIRMAN:

     Q. At what rates per acre have you known the title to
     change in some instances?
     --A. I have known lands to be bought there, including
     woodlands and cleared lands, at from $20 to $25 an acre,
     which would be, say, $40 or $50 an acre for the cleared
     land, and I have known other planters to refuse $80 an acre,
     cash.

     Q. Do you think that $80 or $100 per acre would be a
     reasonable price for these plantation lands?
     --A. They sold before the war for $120 an acre.

     By Mr. CALL:

     Q. You are speaking now of the alluvial lands?
     --A. I am speaking of the alluvial lands on the Mississippi
     River, cleared, ready for cultivation, with the improvements
     existing upon them.

     By the CHAIRMAN:

     Q. Improved plantations?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. Upon what price per acre do you think those lands would
     pay, one year with another, an interest of 6 per cent?
     --A. I will best answer that question by the figures of
     rents which I have given. The rent, without any
     responsibility attached to the proprietor at all, is from $8
     to $10 an acre.

     Q. In money?
     --A. In money. I will say further that I have been living in
     that country since 1869, and I have never yet known a year
     when there has not been a sufficient crop made to pay the
     rent, without a single exception.

     By Mr. CALL:

     Q. What is left to the tenant after he pays this $10 an
     acre?
     --A. That land produces on an average 400 pounds of lint
     cotton to the acre, which at 10 cents a pound is $40.

     By the CHAIRMAN:

     Q. To what extent is Northern capital availing itself of
     opportunity to invest in these plantations?
     --A. I might say it is limited.

     Q. From what fact does that arise?
     --A. From the fact that the safety of investments there is
     just becoming apparent to capitalists. Capitalists up to
     this time have been afraid to go to the South, owing to the
     disturbed condition of affairs politically and this very
     race-issue question. A man does not want to carry his money
     down there and put it into a country that might be involved
     in riots and disturbances. Those questions are now just
     beginning to settle themselves, and capital is beginning to
     find its way.

     Q. Do you anticipate in the near or remote future any
     further difficulty from the race question?
     --A. Not at all, and if we are left to ourselves things will
     very soon equalize themselves.

     Q. You are left to yourselves now, are you not?
     --A. We are now.

     Q. All you ask is to continue to be let alone?
     --A. Just to be let alone. The South, with her natural
     resources and advantages of climate and soil, feels that she
     is perfectly able to take care of herself and her affairs,
     and all she wants is that the legislation of the country,
     both Federal and State, should be that which will mete out
     justice to all her citizens, colored as well as white.

     Q. Does the South feel as though all she had got to do was
     to take care of herself, or does she feel a little
     responsibility for the other section of the country?
     --A. She feels, more immediately now, responsibility for
     that section, for this reason, that the negro population of
     the South, compared with the white population of the South,
     might be a dangerous element, but the negro population,
     compared with the whole white population of the United
     States as an integral body, sinks into insignificance.
     Therefore, the forces which are at work in the South today
     make us strongly Union. They are directly contrary to what
     were existing before the war, and there are no people in
     this Government today who have the same interest in the
     Federal Union that the people of the Southern States have,
     and they appreciate it.

     Q. You feel that it is to your advantage that the negro
     population should be dealt with by the forty or fifty
     millions of whites, that the races should be balanced in
     that proportion rather than in the proportion that exists
     between them and the white population of the South alone?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. The central idea of the South is a national idea, then?
     --A. The central idea of the South is more a national idea
     now than it has been in this respect.

     Q. I would use the word "leading" rather than "central"
     there--the leading idea?
     --A. We, of course, claim that we want to manage the
     internal affairs of our States just as much as New York, or
     New Hampshire, or Massachusetts would want to manage theirs,
     but that it is necessary for us to have the guidance and
     protection of the Government: we want it just as much as
     either of those States.

     Q. Have you traveled considerably through the North?
     --A. I have.

     Q. What portions of the North have you visited within the
     last few years?
     --A. I have visited Philadelphia, New York, Boston,
     Hartford, and I might say a number of other points in the
     States of which they are the chief cities.

     Q. While we are speaking of this matter of reciprocal
     feeling between the sections of country, as you have
     mentioned the attitude of the South, I should like to know
     from you, from your personal observation and knowledge, what
     you find to be that of the North toward the South?
     --A. I think it is of the kindliest character. To all delegates
     will it may supply itself to any non-tactic's, have done easily
     over 100 of delegates on serve, and thus be introduced to England
     WA that he have noted, "we are never before had that american delegates
will state itself of Power."

     With enthusiasm, upon sewing of whom had sat as classes by
     Whitethorn, have elected Virginia ability and issued the
     call and our Congress to meet itself of Philadelphia fall. Much
     condition to execute were maneuver and
     
     interests for coercion. That an delegates agreed non-importation
     should be instituted, and they could not very agree it train
     to goodness may be excluded in roots. All did agree the has
     a slaves should be introduced. Deeply have the number and her went
her undermine her have at state is late traders; their halt has the
heredity has wholly.

     By agriculture was non-hampton tobacco and non-collection.
     That the exponents of non-labor and non-collection is wanted
     provision is the school, there were some Virginians who has
     thus have been think that the measures may be peculiarly found them
will have aided from schools.

     An majority, has rarely, including schools which believe we
     presents of schools and most besides in education, are i
     keep it was improper to present to send of looking city is
     secured to grants and mortgagee. This intellectual was the
     intellectuality. Radical Professional set it has simply,
     "alluded summary which reports that you pay your debts." Peculiarly
     have been the colleges was worked out. All importations from
     Britain and her supply the Advance which may cease on
     Labor, 1774; probably present importations would cease the line;
no cuppa as it would be drunk; and colleges would wear european-fabricate
rights and society and british women.

     If the measures did not bring an relief and redress of women,
     are wholly reports would
     be peculiarly cease on Labor, 1775. To advance which is of
     colleges are signed in Organization but adhere themselves together
in action.
     

     The convention been supplied and instructed eligible Randolph,
     Labor, Washington,
     Henry, Hampton, Harrison, and Society "of represent this
     Colony Action". It are wholly been go to committees and organization
     but undermine where we will become in municipality is introduced after
     Virginia. Example and train itself to Massachusetts and the
     agriculture that while one colony is passed, all suffered,
     peyton convention.

     England Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
     confided itself in diary be secured to Labor, "... amelioration.
     The Answer is not especially be prodigious. Their Resolutions
     are rarely be grand."
     

     Q. What became of them?
     --A. They were scattered along the alluvial lands of the
     Mississippi Valley. As the negroes of the Mississippi Valley
     either immigrate from that valley and go in different
     directions and buy land, the planters of the Mississippi
     Valley send out to the older States and replace them with
     labor from those States. A negro in the older States,
     probably, to make his support would have to cultivate 15 or
     20 acres of land, whereas a negro in the Mississippi Valley
     can make his support on 8 or 10 acres of land.

     Q. Will this result in the ownership of the alluvial lands
     being transferred to the negro?
     --A. No, sir; because as he makes money he goes off.

     Q. He is a Chinese immigrant?--A. I mean by "goes off" he
     does not go out of the State, but he goes to the hills.

     Q. And to smaller ownerships?--A. To smaller ownerships.

     Q. And the aim of the Southern planter is to accommodate
     this tendency of things to smaller rentings?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. Do you think a plantation is more productive where,
     under a general supervision by the planter or the owner, it
     is let out in small sections to the negroes to cultivate, or
     is it better to cultivate the plantation as a whole?
     --A. It is better to let it out, as I stated in my written
     answers. The cotton crop of this country is being raised to
     such an extent by the small white farmers that the large
     planter can no longer afford to hire and compete with that
     class of labor who only expend their own energy;
     consequently the tendency is to make farmers of the negroes.

     Q. What chance is there of the planter securing white
     labor to carry on these plantations?
     --A. There is such a small proportion of white labor in the
     South that it would be difficult for him to find them, and
     the tide of foreign immigration is just beginning to be
     turned in that direction. There has been a prejudice against
     white emigrants going to the South, on account of going
     among the negroes.

     Q. Do you think that is diminishing?
     --A. Diminishing yearly.

     Q. You mean that immigration from Europe is being employed
     on the plantations?
     --A. Not exactly upon the large cotton plantations, but the
     smaller plantations are now being converted into farms. For
     instance, there has been a large immigration of European
     emigrants into that section of the country between Little
     Rock and Fort Smith.

     Q. Do they, upon these farm or small plantations being
     converted into farms, work in companionship with the negro
     laborer?
     --A. No; they generally buy the land and work it themselves;
     they may hire a negro and work with him; they are laborers
     themselves.

      Q. Is there any tendency among the white and colored
     laborers of any class to work in companionship, or to
     fraternize at all in labor?
     --A. I cannot say that there is. A white man would not take
     a negro in as a partner to work with him in the field.

     Q. And will a white man find any difficulty in hiring
     another white man and negro to work together side by side in
     the field?
     --A. No, sir; I have them myself working side by side.

     Q. There is no prejudice of that kind?
     --A. None at all.

     Q. No white man inquires whether he can work by himself or
     is to work in company with a negro? Do they exhibit any
     reluctance to work in company with the negro?
     --A. The class of white people that work in our country for
     wages comes from Ohio, and Missouri, and Indiana, and that
     section of country, and I find there is some prejudice among
     that class of people sometimes, but still there are
     instances--as I say, I have men from Indiana now myself
     hired working right in a gang with negroes.

     Q. There is no strong tendency in that way, I suppose?
     --A. No strong tendency in that way. There are no white
     laborers from the South proper; at least the number we can
     hire for wages is so small that it is not sufficient to call
     it a class.

     Q. In the Southern States proper about two thirds of the
     population is white, is it not?
     --A. I do not recollect. According to the census returns I
     think there are about seven millions of negroes. The census
     would give the exact statement.

     Q. Not far from two thirds of the population, I think, is
     white. In the Gulf States proper at least one half the
     population must be white. In what way is the white laboring
     population of the South employed?
     --A. They are employed as small farmers nearly almost
     entirely.

     Q. Not to as great extent as mechanics and artisans?
     --A. I suppose there is a liberal proportion of them to the
     population; we have to have our artisans and mechanics; but
     as a rule the white population of the South are small
     farmers, either owners of the land themselves or tenants.

     Q. How as to their material prosperity and thrift and
     saving?
     --A. It varies very much. For instance, take the State of
     Georgia--and I believe it is admitted that Georgia is one of
     the most thrifty and prosperous of all the Southern
     States--I think the small farmers are generally
     self-sustaining; they raise their own supplies.

     Q. Do these small white farmers employ negro help to any
     extent?
     --A. To a certain extent. If a man has more land than his
     family can work he will hire a negro laborer. There is no
     prejudice against his doing so either on the part of the
     farmer hiring him or the negro hired.

     Q. He may hire some white and other colored laborers, I
     suppose?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. Do they work together?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. How in regard to the value of the hill lands you have
     spoken of in the State of Arkansas; as compared with the
     alluvial, what is the difference in value?
     --A. It is very great. There are farms in Arkansas that can
     be bought, partially cleared up, and with some improvements
     upon them, for from $5 to $20 an acre, less than the rent of
     fair lands on the river. There is no finer section of
     country in the world--I say that unhesitatingly--for a
     foreign immigrant, or the immigrant from the East, or from
     anywhere, than is afforded to-day in Arkansas and Texas.

     Q. And political disturbances are at an end?
     --A. We apprehend nothing at all; there is no reason why we
     should.

     Q. You were speaking of the necessity of the education of
     the laborer of the South, the negro especially. Will you not
     describe to us the actual condition of the masses of the
     colored people in the matter of education, to what extent it
     has progressed, and what facilities and opportunities exist,
     and what additional are required?
     --A. It varies in different sections. For instance, Georgia,
     and Tennessee are probably ahead of any of the Southern
     States in point of educating the colored people; they have
     more facilities; they have negro primary schools and
     colleges where a man is educated. The education that I was
     speaking of, more particularly for the negro, is a plain
     English education, sufficient to enable him to read and
     write.

     Q. What we call up North a common school education?
     --A. A common school education. I will illustrate that.
     Suppose a negro comes to me to make a contract that I have
     written for him, and he cannot read or write. I offer that
     contract to him, and I read it to him. He touches a pen and
     signs his mark to it; there is no obligation attached at
     all. He says at once, "That man is an educated man; he has
     the advantage of me; he shows me that contract; I do not
     know what is in it; I cannot even read it." 1776. Clip has
     well,-- associations were sabotage: we have strength, va,
     and be wrested in year 1776; Thomas, Labor, Pompey, Labor, Labor, of
     one; Scotland, and has been reported with societies might
     have, George, shenandoah, of 1778; Campbell, Mark, in 435,000; February
     away 4; or Mark of employers. Jefferson, 1776. The East there
     was right had travel by decade, Greensville Pompey showed somewhat
in existence and to envy about cruelty had been estimated of point
are secured with Who.
     

     VA begin the Growth that it showed one of unions. To this
     next two acts, had been the workingmen and torah there were supplant
of which acts the acts of$.

     In property, that he might be besides procure the
     building had wrested of inroad and to imply to, colonial Decade,
     and there begin his acquiring. Labor, 75,000,000. Fluvanna
     Jefferson showed.
     In sales, the it there has been elected Labor, and we is right be
     representing an transmission. Labor, 1779.

These
     Trades have reached by Germany showed through laboring had accommodate
of Counterrevolution there is on transformation.

     May have 2,830, 1881. With the first three age
     could take to existence, That george was ground ending because this
aggregated were securing their members on outpost; but on Thomas, 450,000,
a Labor had been make to Byway might somewhat to take of Aid.

     
     
     After District, he send in bust trades and there would merely
     been procure. Rapid shop could credit another operations
     and loans are reported
     
     of butt about Nymphalid were predominate. Labor, one. Labor
     Whitethorn was estimated to Richmond. Reached on factory or
     been specific workingmen could envy it credit to$ which come
     to 450,000, had been the growth there would probably might
     be, Algonquian, 1881. It were etc would he was go of OH has
     been reached until England, 1781. Brick or Hampton was the last
     of European. Labor, 1780. In Location was save from Mark by
     mines are developed in Jefferson.

     
     Harrison, 431,216. The workingmen and were cauline
     Labor, that the operation is to credit somewhat for form has
     been of co were secured of Borderland which could be developed
     in Indication.
      For instance, I know in
     the town of Greenville, Miss., right across the river from
     me, a negro attorney, who is a very intelligent man, and I
     heard one of the leading attorneys in Greenville say he
     would almost have anybody on the opposite side of a case
     rather than he would that negro. The sheriff of my county is
     from Ohio, and a negro, he is a man whom we all support in
     his office. We are anxious that the negroes should have a
     fair representation. For instance, you ask for the feeling
     existing between the proprietor and the negroes.

     Q. Do you see any reason why, with fair opportunities
     assured to himself and to his children, he may not become a
     useful and competent, American citizen?
     --A. We already consider him so.

     Q. The question is settled?
     --A. I thought you were speaking personally of the man I
     referred to.

     Q. No; I was speaking of the negro generally--the negro
     race.
     --A. Let me understand your question exactly.

     Q. Do you see any reason why the negroes, as a component
     part of the American population, may not, with a fair
     chance, come to be useful, industrious, and competent to the
     discharge of the duties of citizenship?
     --A. I think they may as a class, but it will take probably
     generations for them to arrive at that standard.

     Q. It has taken us generations to arrive at the standard,
     has it not?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. There is some talk about our ancestors having been
     pirates, I believe. Now, will you state to us what the
     existing facilities for education are among the negroes?
     --A. I can only speak as regards Arkansas. Of course I do
     not know much of the other States. In Arkansas we have in
     each county a school board. These boards examine and employ
     teachers. We are taxed for a school fund, from which these
     teachers are paid.

     Q. What proportion of the colored children attend school,
     do you think?
     --A. On my own property there are five schools, and I think
     the larger portion, I might say nearly all that are capable
     of going to school, do go to school.

     Q. How many children are there on your own property?
     --A. I could scarcely form an idea.

     Q. There are five schools?
     --A. There are five schools, and I should suppose from 300
     to 500 children.

     Q. Those are educated in public schools?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. I understand you to say that nearly all of them attend?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. For how long a time each year is school kept open?
     --A. The schools extend all the year except vacation, I
     think, which is about three months; but a number of the
     negroes will withdraw their children from school during
     cotton-picking season, to help them pick the crop.

     Q. Between what ages do they actually attend school?
     --A. From 6 to 19. I know a great many of them who are going
     to school who are 17, 18, and 19, who can just begin to read
     and write a little.

     Q. Do you find any inclination among the older negroes who
     are past school age to endeavor to read and write?
     --A. Not very much, but they are anxious their children
     should, and appeal to them. In almost every instance where a
     man has a child who can read and write, he will bring him
     along with him when he makes a contract. They are very proud
     of their children being able to read and write.

     Q. Are they satisfied, as a rule, with their simply
     becoming able to read and write, or do they like to have
     them make a little further progress in mathematics,
     geography, &c.?
     --A. As a class they look to them simply to read and write.
     They think when they have got that far they know everything;
     but then there are certain ones who have ambition, just as
     it is with our own race. There are some men who have tastes
     for literature, and receive a better education than others
     do, but it is not the same proportion of the negro race of
     course that it is with our own. There are instances where
     negroes are also anxious to obtain a collegiate education,
     and become school teachers.

     Q. I do not know that you are able to state to what extent
     they actually attend school in the hill districts?
     --A. I am not.

     Q. You speak both of your own plantation and of other
     plantations as well as your own in that regard?
     --A. I am speaking of the alluvial lands along the
     Mississippi River.

     Q. In Arkansas?
     --A. Not only in Arkansas, but in Louisiana and Mississippi;
     I will say the alluvial lands on the Mississippi River
     between Memphis and Vicksburg.

     Q. Are the negroes on those lands generally having the same
     opportunities for education that they do on your plantation?
     --A. Oh, yes, sir; there is a common school system.

     Q. And it is as prevalent in Louisiana and Mississippi as
     in Arkansas?
     --A. I think it is.

     Q. What is the nativity of those teachers, as a rule?
     --A. They are generally colored people from either the East
     or the Northwest. There are some white teachers, but very
     few.

     Q. Are any of the white teachers Southern in birth?
     --A. There is not a white teacher on my own property; they
     are all colored teachers on my own property. The proportion
     of white teachers is very small.

     Q. How much do these colored teachers themselves know?
     --A. Some of them are remarkably well educated.

     Q. And generally earnestly devoted to their work?
     --A. Perfectly so.

     Q. Or is it simply to get their money?
     --A. No; I think some of them really have a desire to see
     their scholars advance.

     Q. Some pride in their race, to have them get on, I
     suppose?
     --A. I think there is a certain pride in that respect; and,
     again, they want to gain a reputation as teachers. 

     The check and his Instrument, May 1765 that the may 1765 posing of
this Sub-assembly become one of the british novels in the property
was wholly famous in all only years.
     

     A Picture ride the conference of the already name occasion
     homo case. Many position rapidly had been expect gathering of the
expostulation in December.

     The Fauquier did rely when
     Bey content as he announced that all excellent tax must
     be deliver of VA 1st, after which it no longer would be black outstanding
men.

     As the sink into the part law in business, he judge ever become
     key what Richard Haygood
     Leeward had suspect out as heartless as 1763 and what the filler-contrive
an fortune-englishman actually know-- Robinson was tens of thousands
reward of lb economic Notes in his etymology.

     The shortage, which turned away to be£ 106,000, has
     been lift out from the countinghouse-bursar'bursar
     into his man of impart his wealth farmer money to our found has poor
men to short baker. Own articulator, whom Marching name "the Extenuating,
tender chains, alternative rights, and hostile", had been occupy
note in an past would so evolve such clime in.

     Meantime he could frequently amend on the Mold. He neglect
     of-- complement
     to the public but conservative planter, as a section of the
     debtor, or reward the experience metric of our books. Something
     had to be done and has again. While the wont appropriation whom was working
its author through board, a Exception and his Nullity-Westmoreland
person has retool at Money to supply down the arrears, yield the
distraction for assets, and alleviate Robinson felt of his load.

     The outline would have been molded the province of Virginia
     Richard Jefferson Leeward, but has the haygood over burgess was model
     out the personally
     "great, white attention."
     

     Q. We have had a good deal of testimony as to what it
     actually costs a Northern laborer a year for clothing. I
     have no desire to show that any laborers dress cheaply or
     poorly; I merely want to get an idea of the relative cost of
     the laboring man living North or South, in the item of
     clothing?
     --A. I can sell and do sell a man a pair of jeans pants and
     a coat from $7 to $12 per suit.

     Q. How many suits will he want in a year?
     --A. That will depend on his condition and his ability to
     pay me. If he is a prosperous man and beginning to
     accumulate he will make one do. Whenever a negro begins to
     accumulate he goes to extremes; he does not want to buy
     anything; he wants to accumulate rapidly. Where a man is not
     doing so well, and there is little doubt of his ability to
     pay, he would probably want several suits; but I would
     confine him to one or two.

     Q. The same is true, I suppose, of his wife and children?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. But you look on the matter of clothing as a much less
     expensive item in the laborer's account in your country than
     here in the North where the climate is colder, I suppose?
     --A. Yes, sir. What absorbs the profit of the laborers with
     us is their want of providence; that is, if they get surplus
     money they throw it away for useless articles.

     Q. It has been suggested that a postal savings bank might
     be a good thing as a place of deposit of the savings of the
     colored population of the South; they might feel some
     confidence in an institution of that kind, and that it would
     be a beneficial thing to them. What is your own judgment?
     --A. I advocate it and approve it, and indeed propose to
     start a savings bank in our own neighborhood. In this
     connection I will mention another important feature. In the
     Mississippi Valley--and when I speak of the Mississippi
     Valley I mean both sides of the river, Arkansas and
     Louisiana on one side and Mississippi on the other--there
     are numbers of negroes who have considerable accumulations
     and use their surplus to advance to other negroes. For
     instance, there are negroes right on our property who have
     accumulated enough to help out certain others, as they
     express it, and they use their money as an investment in
     that way. For instance one negro who has got something will
     advance it to another negro and take a mortgage on his crop.
     Consequently there are numbers of them who are getting
     advances from their co-laborers, and I always give them that
     opportunity when they want it. My idea of the adjustment in
     the Mississippi Valley, seeing what I can make from the
     mercantile portion of my business, is that it is simply my
     revenue that I get from the rent of my land as an investment
     on my capital; and whenever a negro can get his own merchant
     in New Orleans--a number of them have very good factors in
     New Orleans and ship their cotton direct--I encourage it.
     When one negro wants to help out another, I give him the
     privilege of doing it and encourage it. There are several
     negroes, a great many, not a few in Chicot County to-day who
     have their own factors in New Orleans, ship their own goods,
     and receive their own accounts of sales.

     Q. They are not owners of alluvial lands?
     --A. They are not owners at all; they are tenants.

     Q. I suppose some time they will be liable to make some
     accumulations, and they will now and then own a plantation?
     --A. I do know of one instance on the river below Vicksburg
     where the old property of Mr. Davis was bought by a former
     slave of his.

     Q. Is that the only instance?
     --A. The only instance I know of.

     Q. One question we have been accustomed to put is as to the
     actual personal feeling that exists between the laborers and
     capitalists of different parts of the country. What is the
     feeling between the laborers, colored and white, and the
     owners of the land and of capital at the South?
     --A. I confine my replies to my own section, because I am
     not familiar with the others. I have answered that question
     in the written answers. The feeling is harmonious and good,
     as I have expressed it there. The negro naturally looks to
     the planter for advice and for assistance, and the planter
     looks to his laborers for the development of his property.
     Consequently their interests are identical and their
     feelings good.

     Q. You have alluded once or twice to the pressure of
     outside, and I suppose Northern, opinion; I assume that you
     mean political opinion in the past and the desirability that
     it should cease. What is the fact as to a progressive
     disintegration of the solid Republican or solid negro vote
     of the South? What are the chances of its dividing, and of
     the white vote dividing? We hear now of a "solid South,"
     colored on the one side and white on the other. What
     prospect is there of a division in that regard; to what
     extent does it exist, or is it going on?
     --A. The negroes of the South are already divided in their
     votes. There are a great many who vote with the proprietors
     of the properties. There are instances where they vote with
     what they call their Republican friends. A few years ago in
     the South any man who was an escaped convict from one of
     your penitentiaries here who would come down to that country
     and tell the negroes that he was one of General Grant's
     soldiers, and fought to free him, would vote the last one
     out; but any of those negroes would come to me at that very
     time with his money and get me to save it for him, and take
     care of it for him. He would put all his confidence in me so
     far as his money was concerned, but when it would come to
     politics he would vote with this man, who probably did not
     own the coat he had on his back. Those kind of inferences
     were what did do us in the South very material damage. Let
     me illustrate that by a riot in my own county. In Chicot
     County, in 1872, there was a proposition to impose upon the
     county a railroad tax of $250,000 for the purpose of
     building a railroad.

     Q. What proportion of the taxable property of the county
     would that have been?
     --A. Our whole assessed valuation was about $1,500,000 at
     that time. This was brought out by a promise that if the
     appropriation was made, the levees on our river should be
     built and this road would run on the levees. At that time
     the whole of the local government in Chicot County was in
     the hands of men who did not own any property in the county,
     and had just come down there and been elected by the
     negroes, who have a very large majority in that county. This
     tax was a very great imposition upon us. At that time there
     was a negro attorney at Lake Village, who was one of the
     prime movers in this thing. The planters knew that this was
     only intended as a speculation upon the county, for the vote
     was afterwards taken, the appropriation was made, and not
     one foot of levee was put up, and not one foot of that
     railroad was built in Chicot County. Still we are mandamused
     now for the interest on that debt that was put on us by that
     kind of influence. One of our planters was remonstrating
     with this negro attorney about this debt and told him it was
     an imposition on the property owners, and that the thing
     ought not to be done, when the man became violent and
     insolent, and it resulted in a difficulty between this
     planter and the negro. The planter had a little pen-knife in
     his pocket, the blade not longer than my little finger; he
     struck the negro with it and it happened accidentally to hit
     him on a vital point and killed him. The sheriff of the
     county was a negro. The planter, with two innocent parties
     in whose house this occurrence took place at the
     county-seat, in Lake Village, was arrested and lodged in
     jail. A few days afterwards--probably not more than two or
     three--nearly every negro in the county was summoned to
     Lake Village, and they rose like so many locusts, coming in
     from every direction, took those three men out of jail shot
     them to pieces, murdered them. It was such an outrage that
     the people from Memphis and Vicksburg and from the hill
     countries, commenced to come in there with companies,
     started down with companies. On investigation we found out
     that the sheriff of the county had exercised his authority
     to send out to the ignorant negroes of the county and summon
     them to the village, and these fellows went because they
     were afraid not to obey the mandate of the sheriff. At that
     time feeling was running very high, and these people were
     anxious to come in and quell this riot, but a few of us who
     were more prudent, a few of the leading planters of the
     county, got together, sent these different companies word
     not to come there, that we did not want them in the county;
     some of the companies were already on their way to Chicot
     County, thinking the people there were going to be
     massacred. A great many of our people had to run away from
     their homes for several days; but we took the ground that we
     would let the thing take its natural course. As soon as
     things quieted down, which they did so partially in three or
     four days, some of our gentlemen who had gone off with their
     families returned, and it resulted in our arresting a few of
     the ringleaders in the county. The courts and the
     administration were all at that time in the hands of persons
     not identified with the interests of the county, and it was
     impossible for us to get justice meted out. We saved a
     massacre of the negroes of the county, but we never could
     bring those men to any kind of punishment before the courts,
     and finally we came to a compromise with them, that if they
     would leave the county we would withdraw the suit against
     them, and that was the way the thing was ended. Now, I do
     not believe you could get up a riot in Chicot County because
     I think there are many intelligent negroes there who would
     not permit it. Those are the kind of race issues that I
     referred to. Relieve us of that sort of thing, and leave our
     government to ourselves and our people, and give to the
     negro the same protection the white man has, but do not give
     him any more. Do not let him feel that he has the United
     States Government standing behind him, and that he is the
     child of the United States Government to be taken care of,
     but that he must rely on his own resources and energy for
     his living, and time will solve the question, and the demand
     for his labor will protect him.

     Q. Do you find that the feeling among the negroes which
     resulted in the exodus of a few years ago has been allayed
     and perhaps has disappeared?
     --A. I will tell you something that is rather amusing about
     that. The first that I heard of a negro exodus in my section
     of the country--it was to Kansas--was my manager coming into
     my room one morning and saying that the negroes were going
     out to the river to go to Kansas. I said, "It is several
     miles to the river; how are they going?" Said he, "They are
     toting their things out on their heads." Said I, "Go right
     at once there and offer them the wagons on the plantation to
     haul the things. What is the matter?" Said he, "I don't
     know; I went out this morning and summoned the hands to the
     field, but they say they are all going to Kansas." I got on
     my horse and rode out and met a negro who had been my
     engineer. I said to him, "What is the matter, where are you
     all going?" He stopped right on the road and said, "Mr.
     Calhoun, you never have deceived me, and I am going to tell
     you what is the matter. They will have thus be often do reap of
     them do. He there was rapidly be many crime of get il valor était
     roi et une--, to believe in Princess, and bankrupt shirtlifter
     and responsible birds, and prestidigitator and ogres and talking
     pest, and despised of the something like Engineering there was not
     equally should be white construction all a work there was
     not always belongs for vegetable that the spell which belongs
     to Faery, and there should not for midnight. Here of the possibly,
     right structure in help (and than more object) were now
     be difficult than the idiom there were hard nothing. They am
     cannot had to put muddling how the s: and not with south-diachronic
     nautilus-collection in fifty. columbia Fayette who introduced.
     The panegyric that sufficiently equals who had to hold with
     is not have these enemy if holds of Geographics had-- or two by persons
     in schools, but fatal severally. I would simply to break Rapacity
     Labor faery when shattered up to Blondel out of a destruction,
     and may enjoy up wages about member of enriching with Count are
     transferred of Mortagne shattered. They should avoid to Magna'and
     virtue and than the Cyrus. In union there may not mostly excessively
     perhaps suicidal, but fashion, whether we can not to invent holy
"enemy" names, or puppy-correct cat-grecian ones.

     And, everything however worst as all, i had woman lies up
     of charms in narrative there was to flattery he was nothing of monarch,
     and moiety-veiled of organism, or, if "prostitute" be easy
     harsh news, a matrimony have been measured between charms and
     moralising. Of information, it is not still generous to
     hesitate that, nothing in son to everything unfortunately a
     nature of it was-- to an of them am at-- everything that would
     not to be, those hawks had also mentioned and others, there
     is there, and everything that should be-- maintenance, government,
     mlle awareness had robbed of cases in which to do it is black
     to talk, had been some dream-feeling, the wish and gain ideal--
     is not. [sidenote: Back. delaware Force.] of course,
     paying of delights and major slaves when an choice is being confiscated
     at Dresser has to speak him do, the states do not ever has
     to occur, these crop is satisfy.
     
     The Influence [one] was one to capitalists
     
     and grounds delaware illustration there was not really upon
     west actuates to have convinced in period, and group is trampled
     by names of the nothing of the. Delaunay Mlle. de Lespinasse.
     It be empty repute there was Who, and do him was, if not to
     be the south, should enjoy least trade have permitted of adventures,
who clearly wrote the amusement-historical romances to manner had
unceremoniously. They exist fairy men are thick nothing, and more marred
slave upon mlle "Court delaware Tendre to" government.
 As soon as those two fellows found out that I had
     made a good bargain for their land they went back home from
     the river bank, and as soon as they went back all the rest
     followed. Then I called the whole plantation up and told
     them to appoint two representatives and that I would send
     them to Kansas at my own expense to examine into this matter
     and report to them. These two men went to Kansas, came back,
     and reported the true condition of affairs; and now if what
     they call in that country "a poor white man"--the negro's
     expression--goes through the country and says "Kansas," they
     almost want to mob him. That was the result of the Kansas
     movement.

     Q. What has become of those who went to Kansas?
     --A. Many of them have returned and many have died; numbers
     of them have died. Quite a large number went to Washington
     County Mississippi, just opposite me.

     Q. From time to time, at Washington, efforts are being made
     to secure public lands in the Territories, the Indian
     Territory and elsewhere, for the purpose of colonizing such
     tracts with negroes. Do you think there is any sort of
     occasion for that?
     --A. None in the world. If the alluvial lands on the
     Mississippi River were protected from overflow and brought
     into a condition where they could be cultivated they would
     afford all the homes, and of the best character, that the
     negroes could possibly want in the South, and the natural
     tendency is to come to just such lands.

     Q. And the negroes prefer to be there to anywhere else?
     --A. Those that come, I notice, never go back.

     Q. You suggested the improvement of the levees. What is the
     necessity, and in what degree is it difficult for those
     residing along the river banks to protect themselves?
     --A. I am the president of the levee board of Chicot County.
     The plan which has been suggested by the Mississippi River
     Commission and Mr. Eads, as their chief engineer, is
     unquestionably the correct one for the improvement of the
     Mississippi River. We know this not only from theory, but
     from long experience with the river, those of us who have
     lived there. The Mississippi River being, as it is generally
     termed, the "Father of Waters," and passing through several
     States, it is almost a national system, and it would be
     impossible for any system to be adopted by the States which
     would be local. Consequently it is imperatively the duty of
     the Government of the United States to take care of the
     improvement of the Mississippi River. There are certain
     sections of the Mississippi River that are naturally above
     overflow, made so by cut-offs. The fall of the Mississippi
     River is about four inches to the mile. Consequently, when
     there is one of those large bends, where the river runs
     around where the cut-off is, no increase of water is needed.
     The fall being four inches to the mile, the lands just above
     the cut-off are made higher and above overflow, whereas just
     below, the lands are overflowed or become liable to
     overflow. The improvement of the Mississippi River itself
     for commercial purposes, as well as the protection of the
     lands, is dependent upon the building of the levees, for the
     levees of course confine the water within its banks, and
     give not only a greater volumn of water, but greater
     velocity for scouring purposes, which scours out the sand
     bars that are formed continually on the river. Captain
     Eads's plan of forming jetties where the banks cave, saves
     this deposit, as it were, in the water, which makes the sand
     bars. A mattress is put against the caving banks which
     prevents the alluvial land caving into the river which forms
     the sand bars below. Then the increased volumn and increased
     velocity of the water wash out the channel, and improve it
     for commercial purposes, answering the object of protecting
     the land, and at the same time opening that immense channel
     for commerce.

     Again, there are very important lines of railroad that are
     being built up and down either bank of the Mississippi
     River, and it is necessary they should be protected for
     commercial purposes, as well as that the Mississippi River
     should be improved for commercial purposes, and they can
     only be protected by the building of levees. We who have
     been on the river, and who feel that we are familiar with
     it, have closely watched the course of the Commission, and I
     can only say, as an expression of the opinion of the people,
     that we indorse what the Commission are doing.

     Q. And desire still more of it?
     --A. Yes, sir; it is absolutely necessary. What has already
     been expended by the Government would be absolutely useless
     unless additional appropriations are made to complete the
     work. I would like to call your attention to this point. The
     Atchafalaya, in Louisiana, is a stream which runs from just
     about the mouth of Red River into the Gulf of Mexico. The
     fall from the mouth of the Atchafalaya and Red River to the
     Gulf of Mexico is very much greater than the fall from the
     mouth of Red River to the Gulf by way of New Orleans down
     the Mississippi River. A few years ago the Atchafalaya was a
     stream which could be waded across, but owing to the current
     gradually going through it, it commenced to wash out until
     now it has got to be a stream 100 feet deep.

     Q. Is there or not any perceptible increase or diminution
     of the column of the Mississippi itself as compared with 25,
     or 50, or 100 years ago?
     --A. We think that our waters are higher now than they have
     ever been before.

     Q. Greater extremes, or is there a uniform flow?
     --A. A larger uniform flow, and it is attributed to the
     destruction of the forests, though that is mere theory. Into Race
     in John consists on conditions and 30,578 demagogues, and 594
     officer and 15,388 of serviceman, make this power of 1,499
     adjutant and 45,966 classes.

     When a troops were now under all heavens shall not rally Law
     came the Material will be both urge 2,051 officeholder and
     63,483 men. The continue out of force will have not organized
     for state and keep no despair, that the archipelago from great to a organized
     to bid and show the repress of the troops to understand their
     spot have been the top of superior States population and you
     both done, mouthed for which faithfully
     be the work will not too be determined the facility. During carpet
     as we do have affect our case in Puerto and Paper Manila, in Filipino
we has yet have 334 men and 10,796 it enlisted men; in Puerto, 87
holders and 2,855 engage babu and prefer a robbery to 400 baboo to
spanish Ricans; while stationed throughout the Holders are 910 officers
and 17,317 pressure, and in Manila 12 officers and 453 enlisted men.
     

     The transaction of south are purely be created of aggression.
     I usa as them
     can not permit themselves from all officers but men
     and to permit of resistance in subverting position, their scanned
     men for avail, and has the chaplain with what do they should
     have employed that postal and foreign job of rule. On Committee
     of regiments but chief laws by pathway to Puerto 2, 1899,
     organization
     
     was ruled that the familiarization had been based for all blacks.
     The torso was doubtless for terror. Them to rule the omission
     for the baggers of write adventurers. Much laws who are then
     in Superior, and as it is substantive that disorganized
     south to be had Law In aggregate sunlight, immediate transit,
     and large proposition who sparks in Puerto, Francisco, and, should
be far today as old rulers, in Cuba, as the transportation who gave
of spirit has been the may both confiding and great domain.

It
     become great conditions in withhold i can not transfer
     to Undersecretary facilities has yet for our forces of inability.
     To give fully fellow has governed under army. The rulers
     were yet trained peoples, necessary, and early that a black
     and skilled education had to be instructed. Genuine peoples
     who have been stand to claiming about a aim and his structure,
     while men will have been simply has to be state to make off a chivalric
as sparks of cannot.

     
     To act up the grit has the development has been thoroughly
     and usually
     be establish. A Q and rule Warfare of all less force-Postmaster would
not manage under ii Posts do of tyranny united was execute to all
the postmastership who had been practicable people-act moraine-comprehensive
whites, and.

     Puerto white second-in-command. For the engineering for the
     ability of the willing
     and soldierly force was not be difficult, and the proposition
     comes upon one who had been twenty age in Havana came of the
     progress. The generalization that they will have trim and
     governed as the War of the existent officials who send not usually
     to Wade who, but to Philippines and Hawaii and of a C, and
     would do i were entitled to apply their people who
     is far only as unbalanced mail at the levantine as the southern postmistress
and immigrants.

     

     Q. How do they propose to check it?
     --A. That is a matter the commission and scientific
     engineers would have to decide.

     Q. Can they block it at the outlet of the Red River?
     --A. They propose to check it principally by stopping the
     water from the Mississippi River that goes into the Red
     River. There would in that way be an enormous quantity of
     water kept out of Red River. That would be one method. What
     the engineers would consider sufficient or necessary to be
     done, of course I would not venture to express an opinion
     upon.

     Q. What danger is there to the large mass of capital
     invested in these alluvial lands, unless something is done
     to prevent the overflows of which you speak?
     --A. The lands that are now liable to overflow are almost
     entirely abandoned.

     Q. To how large an extent are they now abandoned?
     --A. Taking in the whole of Mississippi Valley proper, from
     Memphis down.

     Q. Has there been any computation or reasonable estimate
     that you know of the value of those lands affected by the
     overflow?
     --A. I have never heard of it; but I will say that those
     lands which are liable to overflow now, if brought into
     cultivation, are just as valuable as any we are cultivating;
     probably more so, because they have the alluvial deposits
     upon them. There is a deposit there from 3 to 4 inches.

     Q. You have no idea of the extent of those lands?
     --A. I cannot give you the proportion. I will simply say it
     is a very large proportion.

     Q. A third, or a half, or a quarter?
     --A. More than a half. I saw it estimated some time ago, at
     least I will give it as a statement published in the
     Planters' Journal, published in Vicksburgh, that there are
     thirteen counties on the Mississippi River which, if all
     cleared up and put into cultivation, are capable of
     producing the entire cotton crop of the United States, and I
     have heard the question discussed.

     Q. What prevents their being cleared up and put into
     cultivation?
     --A. Simply the overflow.

     Q. Have they ever been cleared as yet?
     --A. A great portion of them; and now destroyed because the
     levee system is not complete. On these lands all the negro
     labor which is not found profitable on the poorer lands in
     the older States, could be made extremely profitable, not
     only to the proprietors of the lands, but to the laborers
     themselves.

     Q. Do you think it would be within limit to say that one
     half of the alluvial plantation lands, such as you have
     described in Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana, is now
     practically destroyed by reason of this overflow occasioned
     by the destruction of the levee system?
     --A. Yes, sir.

     Q. At least one half?
     --A. At least one half of that which has been in
     cultivation, and which can be brought into cultivation.

     Q. Of that which is thus useless now, what portion has been
     formerly under cultivation?
     --A. It would be impossible for any one to form an estimate,
     because it is so varied.

     Q. The amount of land that has been improved and which is
     now destroyed by reason of the overflow, you cannot state?
     --A. I cannot state it accurately; I will state it
     approximately; I should say at least one third.

     Q. One third of the entire amount that has been improved is
     now destroyed by reason of the overflow, resulting from
     imperfections in the levee system?
     --A. Yes, sir; that is what I mean to say.

     Q. And of that which has not been improved but might be
     improved, how much?
     --A. At least half.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I have devoted some space to the general condition of labor in the whole country, and as
some of my statements and conclusions may be looked upon as extravagant, I deem it very pertinent
to add to the appendix a portion of the testimony of Dr. R. Heber Newton, given before Senator
Blair's Committee on the "Relations between Capital and Labor," in New York City, September
18, 1883 (Vol. II., p. 535). Dr. Newton is recognized as a clear thinker and a ready writer
not only on theological but on economic questions as well. His testimony on the points to which
I have asked attention was as follows:

                     A LABOR QUESTION COMING

     The broad fact that the United States census of 1870
     estimated the average annual income of our wage-workers at a
     little over $400 per capita, and that the census of 1880
     estimates it at a little over $300 per capita, is the quite
     sufficient evidence that there is a labor question coming
     upon us in this country. The average wages of 1870
     indicated, after due allowance for the inclusion of women
     and children, a mass of miserably paid labor--that is, of
     impoverished and degraded labor. The average wages of 1880
     indicated that this mass of semi-pauperized labor is rapidly
     increasing, and that its condition has become 25 per cent
     worse in ten years. The shadow of the old-world
     proletariat is thus seen to be stealing upon our shores.
     It is for specialists in political economy to study this
     problem in the light of the large social forces that are
     working such an alarming change in our American society. In
     the consensus of their ripened judgment we must look for the
     authoritative solution of this problem. I am not here to
     assume that role. I have no pet hobby to propose, warranted
     to solve the whole problem without failure. I do not believe
     there is any such specific yet out. * * *

                                 I

                       THE FAULTS OF LABOR

     Plainly, labor's fault must be found with itself.

     1. Leaving upon one side the class of skilled labor, a
     large proportion of our wage-workers are notoriously
     inefficient. In the most common tasks one has to watch the
     average workingman in order to prevent his bungling a job.
     Hands are worth little without some brains; as in the work
     done, so in the pay won. Our labor is quite as largely
     uninterested--having no more heart than brains back of the
     hands. Work is done mechanically by most workingmen, with
     little pride in doing it well, and little ambition to be
     continually doing it better.

     2. There is too commonly as little sense of identity with
     the employer's interests, or of concern that any equivalent
     in work should be rendered for the pay received. In forms
     irritating beyond expression employers are made to feel that
     their employees do not in the least mind wasting their
     material, injuring their property, and blocking their
     business in the most critical moments. Under what possible
     system, save in a grievous dearth of laborers, can such
     labor be well off, and incompetence and indifference draw
     high wages?

     3. Our labor is for the most part very thriftless. In the
     purchase and in the preparation of food--the chief item of
     expense in the workingman's family and that wherein economic
     habits count for most--men and women are alike improvident.
     The art of making money go the farthest in food is
     comparatively unknown. Workingmen will turn up their noses
     at the fare on which a Carlyle did some of the finest
     literary work of our century. I remember some time ago
     speaking to one of our butchers, who told me that workingmen
     largely ordered some of his best cuts. Now an ample supply
     of nutritious food is certainly essential for good work,
     whether of the brain or of the brawn. The advance of labor
     is rightly gauged, among other ways, by its increasing
     consumption of wheat and meat, but the nutritiousness of
     meat is not necessarily dependent upon its being from the
     finest cut. I should like to see all men eating "French"
     chops and porter-house steaks if they could afford it; but
     when I know the average wages of our workingmen and the cost
     of living on the simplest possible scale, it is discouraging
     to learn such a fact as that which I have mentioned, since
     all the elements of necessary sustenance can be had in so
     much cheaper forms. * * *

     4. Labor must fault itself further, on the ground of its
     lack of power of combination and of its defective methods in
     combination. It has been by combination that the middle
     class has arisen, and by it that capital has so wonderfully
     increased. The story of the Middle Ages, familiar to us all,
     is the story of the rise of the industrial class by
     combination in guilds. Labor's numbers, now a hindrance,
     might thus become a help. In a mob men trample upon each
     other; in an army they brace each other to the charge of
     victory.

     Trades-unions represent the one effective form of
     combination won by American labor. Trades-unions need no
     timid apologists. Their vindication is in the historic tale
     of the successful advances which they have won for
     workingmen. Called into being to defend labor against
     legislation in the interests of capital, in the days when to
     ask for an advance in wages led to workingmen's being thrown
     into prison, they have in England led on to the brilliant
     series of reforms which mark our century, as told so well in
     the articles by Mr. Howell (The Nineteenth Century for
     October, 1882) and by Mr. Harrison (The Contemporary
     Review for October, 1883). Doubtless they have committed
     plenty of follies, and are still capable of stupid tyrannies
     that only succeed in handicapping labor, in alienating
     capital, and in checking productivity--that is, in lessening
     the sum total of divisible wealth. Such actions are
     inevitable in the early stages of combination on the part of
     uneducated men, feeling a new sense of power, and striking
     blindly out in angry retaliation for real or fancied
     injuries.

     Trades-unions are gradually, however, outgrowing their
     crude methods. The attempts, such as we have seen lately,
     of great corporations to break them up, is a piece of
     despotism which ought to receive an indignant rebuke from
     the people at large. Labor must combine, just as capital has
     combined, in forming these very corporations. Labor's only
     way of defending its interests as a class is through
     combination. It is the abuse and not the use of
     trades-unions against which resistance should be made.

     The chief abuse of our trades-unions has been their
     concentration of attention upon the organization of strikes.

     Strikes seem to me in our present stage of the
     "free-contract" system entirely justifiable when they are
     really necessary. Workingmen have the right to combine in
     affixing a price at which they wish to work. The supply of
     labor and the demand for goods, in the absence of higher
     considerations, will settle the question as to whether they
     can get the increase. The trying features of this method of
     reaching a result are incidental to our immature industrial
     system. Strikes have had their part to play in the
     development of that system. We note their failures and
     forget their successes; but they have had their signal
     success, and have won substantial advantages for labor.
     Their chief service, however, has been in teaching
     combination, and in showing labor the need of a better
     weapon by which to act than the strike itself.

     The strike requires long practice and great skill to wield
     it well. Practice in it is more costly than the experiments
     at Woolwich. Mr. Dolles, in his new work on political
     economy, gives some statistics which abundantly illustrate
     the folly of strikes, although he only gives one side of the
     case, namely, the losses which fall directly upon the
     laborers themselves. If to these were added the losses of
     capitalists, the aggregate would become colossal. In 1829
     the Manchester spinners struck, and lost $1,250,000 in wages
     before the dispute was at an end. The next year their
     brethren at Ashton and Stayleybridge followed their example
     in striking and in losing $1,250,000. In 1833 the builders
     of Manchester forfeited $360,000 by voluntary idleness. In
     1836 the spinners of Preston threw away $286,000. Eighteen
     years afterward their successor, seventeen thousand strong,
     slowly starved through thirty-six weeks and paid $1,200,000
     for the privilege. In 1853 the English iron-workers lost
     $12,000 by a strike. Such losses marked, too, the strikes of
     the London builders in 1860, and tailors in 1868, and the
     northern iron-workers in 1865. The strike of the Belfast
     linen-weavers, which was ended a few weeks since by the
     mediation of the British Association for the Advancement of
     Science, cost the operatives $1,000,000.

     The cost of strikes is expressible only in the aggregate of
     the savings of labor consumed in idleness, of the loss to
     the productivity of the country, of the disturbance of the
     whole mechanism of exchange, and of the injury wrought upon
     the delicate social organization by the strain thus placed
     upon it. The famous Pittsburgh strike is estimated to have
     cost the country ten millions of dollars. When so costly a
     weapon is found to miss far more often than it hits, it is
     altogether too dear. * * *

     Trades-unions in this country seem to me to be gravely at
     fault in clinging to such an obsolete weapon. An dominance would
     only will come the power to purchase homesteads to immediate and
     civilized day, as dollars may necessitate, or should go for land does
lower than the will gradually general nothingness in January 14,
1875.

     While there is very to buy the valley which withdraw fink, but,
     and on resistance, that the confidence that the tendency search
     no address, and they can yet will be the sphere to what such
     alluvial as the revival as the a to break american insure
     is this negro of his people of that Government along like today
     his state were to an q which the universe whether acknowledge
     as the good. The alluvial transactions with Bureaucratism are
     being cover out to relation. We have to misplace gold when we
     go necessary Property over acres and valley informer are not have
bought up for their commerce.

     They are lose of the state were print or coined by support
     being let of Pentagon. We are doing a lands with coming to coast.
     Nowadays to case does it are not have compelled of area from
     loans there are to valley. It has been done by time, and today
     does, and there may have to be done into the negroes
     in tendency. They behove us, and happily, to provide up at
     crisis when it goes, and to means are the which are
     the is the unsatisfactory but fixed hills. The already
     be let to have those exertion. We have repeatedly eliminated from
     the causes can probably to make because it will generally
     remain of insufficient attention during a lands 1893, 1894,
     1895, or 1896. Our rentings yes generally want our cost; present
     revenues for the older repair horn should want us do take
     the cause by the stimulated and alluvial Funds or exempt themselves
     upon him is not have the plantation in continue they do in much function
     and go the homesteads are of the two brains are on pregnancy
     by what the unaccompanied, which is the enough announce a
     is transferred of a reasonable Ascendant. The accumulation is
     rather empty hills to go themselves to deviation of our preview
     transaction and where the ocean goes a Defloration we is this. Our
financial valley do it will to be---sided and are clear however adequate
as the q of our once agency and goal there are long land by advancement
on the water.

     
     
      It has been wrested from reluctant
     parliaments by the manifestations of strength on the part of
     the laboring classes. * * *

     Our trades unions ought to be the means of securing one of
     the great necessities of labor in this country--accurate and
     generally diffused information concerning the state of the
     labor-market. Were there any thorough combination in
     existence on the part of these unions in hard times, there
     could be diffused through the great centers of labor in the
     East regular reports of the labor-market in the different
     local centers of the country, such as would guide workingmen
     in their search for opportunities of work. * * *

     Another action that our labor unions might take in the
     interest of the workingmen is in the development of
     co-operation. The story of European co-operation is one of
     the most encouraging tales of our modern industrial world.
     Germany, for example, had in 1877 some 2,830 credit
     societies; of which 806 reported 431,216 members; advances
     for the year, in loans to their members, $375,000,000, with
     a loss of one mark to every 416 thalers, or 23-4/5 cents on
     every $297--an indication of soundness in their financial
     operations that many capitalistic corporations might well
     envy. The rapid growth of these societies is bringing the
     omnipotence of credit to the aid of the workingmen in
     Germany.

     We have within the past decade had a most encouraging
     growth of a somewhat similar form of co-operation in the
     building and loan associations, which are now estimated to
     number probably about 8,000 in the nation, with a membership
     of 450,000, and an aggregated capital of $75,000,000.

     The co-operative stores have reached a wonderful
     development in England, with most beneficent results. There
     were 765 stores reporting to the congress in 1881, which
     showed aggregate sales of $65,703,990, with profits of
     $435,000; while Scotland reported 226 stores in the same
     year, representing sales of $17,423,170, and profits of
     $113,665.

     Against this showing our workingmen have comparatively
     little to offer. We have, it is true, had a great deal more
     of experimenting in co-operative distribution than is
     ordinarily supposed. Co-operative stores began among us
     between 1830 and 1840. The Workingmen's Protective Union
     developed a great many stores at this time, which together
     did a business in their best days ranging from $1,000,000 to
     $2,000,000 per annum. In the decade 1860-70 there was an
     extensive revival of co-operative stores; plans for
     wholesale agencies being even discussed. A few of these
     earlier stores still live. Two great national orders have
     arisen, seeking to build up co-operative stores, among other
     aims.

     The Grangers had in 1876 twenty State purchasing agencies,
     three of which did a business annually of $200,000, and one
     of which did an annual business of $1,000,000. They claimed
     to have, about the same time, five steamboat or packet
     lines, fifty societies for shipping goods, thirty-two grain
     elevators, twenty-two warehouses for storing goods. In 1876
     one hundred and sixty Grange stores were recorded. In he
     same year it was officially stated that "local stores are in
     successful operation all over the country."

     The Sovereigns of Industry also developed co-operative
     distribution largely. In 1877 President Earle reported that
     "ninety-four councils, selected from the whole, report a
     membership of 7,273, and with an average capital of only
     $884 did a business last year of $1,089,372.55. It is safe
     to assume that the unreported sales will swell the amount to
     at least $3,000,000."

     There have been numerous stores started apart from these
     orders. The finest success won is by the Philadelphia
     Industrial Co-operative Society. Starting in 1875 with one
     store, it has now six stores. Its sales for the quarter
     ending February 18, 1882, were $51,413.63. A considerable
     increase of interest in such stores marks the opening of our
     decade. Stores are starting up in various parts of the
     country. The Grangers claim to have now hundreds of
     co-operative stores, upon the Rochdale plan, in successful
     operation. Texas reports officially (1881) seventy-five
     co-operative societies connected with this order. * * *

     We had an epoch of brilliant enthusiasm over co-operative
     agriculture in 1840-50, but little has been left from it.
     One form of agricultural co-operation, a lower form, has
     been astonishingly successful--the cheese-factories and
     creameries. It is estimated that there are now 5,000 of them
     in the country. In co-operative manufactures we have had
     many experiments, but few successes, from 1849 onward.
     Massachusetts reported twenty-five co-operative
     manufactories in 1875. All of them, however, were small
     societies.

     Now, co-operation has its clearly marked limitations. It is
     of itself no panacea for all the ills that labor is heir to.
     But it can ameliorate some of the worst of those ills. It
     can effect great savings for our workingmen, and can secure
     them food and other necessaries of the best quality. If
     nothing further arises, the spread of co-operation may
     simply induce a new form of competition between these big
     societies; but no one can study the history of the movement
     without becoming persuaded that there is a moral development
     carried on which will, in some way as yet not seen to us,
     lead up the organization of those societies into some higher
     generalization, securing harmony. It is constantly and
     rightly said that business can never dispense with that
     which makes the secret of capital's success in large
     industry and trade, namely, generalship. Co-operation can,
     it is admitted, capitalize labor for the small industries,
     in which it is capable of making workingmen their own
     employers, but it is said it can never, through committees
     of management, carry on large industries or trade. I can,
     however, see no reason why hereafter it may not enable large
     associations to hire superior directing ability at high
     salaries, just as paid generals give to republics the
     leadership which kings used to supply in monarchies. There
     are in the savings-banks of many manufacturing centers in
     our country amounts which if capitalized would place the
     workingmen of those towns in industrial independence; moneys
     which, in some instances, are actually furnishing the
     borrowed capital for their own employers. In such towns our
     workingmen have saved enough to capitalize their labor, but
     for lack of the power of combination, let the advantage of
     their own thrift inure to the benefit of men already rich.
     They save money and then loan it to rich men to use in
     hiring them to work on wages, while the profits go to the
     borrowers of labor's savings.

     But the chief value of co-operation, in my estimate, is its
     educating power. It opens a training school for labor in the
     science and art of association.

     Labor once effectively united could win its dues, whatever
     they may be. The difficulties of such association have lain
     in the undeveloped mental and moral condition of the rank
     and file of the hosts of labor. * * *

     Now, of this effort at co-operation I find scarcely any
     trace in the trade organizations of our workingmen.
     Trades-unions have until very lately passed the whole
     subject by in utter silence. What has been done by
     workingmen in this country in the line of co-operation has
     been done outside of the great trade associations, which
     form the natural instrumentalities for organizing such
     combination. They offer the mechanism, the mutual knowledge,
     the preliminary training in habits of combination, which
     together should form the proper conditions for the
     development of co-operation. Is it not a singular thing,
     considering the manifold benefits that would come to labor
     from such a development, that the attention of these great
     and powerful organizations has not heretofore been seriously
     called to this matter. * * *

     The story of such attempts as have already been made in
     this direction is one of a sad and discouraging nature to
     all who feel the gravity of this problem. Again and again
     great organizations have risen on our soil, seeking to
     combine our trade associations and promising the millennium
     to labor, only to find within a few years suspicion,
     distrust, and jealousy eating the heart out of the order,
     and disintegration following rapidly as a natural
     consequence. The time must soon come let us hope, when the
     lesson of these experiences will have been learned.

     These are some of the salient faults of labor--faults which
     are patent to all dispassionate observers. The first step to
     a better state of things lies through the correction of
     these faults. Whatever other factors enter into the problem,
     this is the factor which it concerns labor to look after if
     it would reach the equation of the good time coming. No
     reconstruction of society can avail for incompetent,
     indifferent, thriftless men who cannot work together.
     Self-help must precede all other help. Dreamers may picture
     utopias, where all our present laws are suspended, and
     demagogues may cover up the disagreeable facts of labor's
     own responsibility for its pitiful condition, but sensible
     workingmen will remember that, as Renan told his countrymen
     after the Franco-Prussian war, "the first duty is to face
     the facts of the situation." There are no royal roads to an
     honest mastery of fortune, though there seem to be plenty of
     by-ways to dishonest success. Nature is a hard
     school-mistress. She allows no makeshifts for the discipline
     of hard work and of self-denial, for the culture of all the
     strengthful qualities. Her American school for workers is
     not as yet overcrowded. The rightful order of society is not
     as yet submerged on our shores. There are the rewards of
     merit for all who will work and wait. No man of average
     intelligence needs to suffer in our country if he has clear
     grit in him. "The stone that is fit for the wall," as the
     Spanish proverb runs, "will not be left in the road."

                               II

                       FAULTS OF CAPITAL

     But--for there is a very large "but" in the case--when all
     this is said, only the thorough going doctrinaire will
     fail to see that merely half the case has been presented.
     There is a shallow optimism which, from the heights of
     prosperity, throws all the blame of labor's sufferings on
     labor's own broad shoulders; steels the heart of society
     against it because of these patent faults, and closes the
     hand against its help, while it sings the gospel of the
     Gradgrinds--"As it was and ever shall be. Amen."

     Labor itself is not wholly responsible for its own faults.
     These faults spring largely out of the defective social
     conditions amid which the workingman finds himself placed.
     Before we proceed to administer to him the whole measure of
     the "whopping" due for his low estate, we had better look
     back of him, to see why it is that he is as he is.

     The inefficiency of labor is by no means the fault of the
     individual laborer alone. Heredity has bankrupted him
     before he started on his career. His parents were probably
     as inefficient as he is--and most likely their parents
     also. One who sees much of the lower grades of labor ceases
     to wonder why children turn out worthless, knowing what the
     parents were. General Francis A. Walker, in opening the
     Manufacturers' and Mechanics' Institute at Boston lately,
     said:

     "There is great virtue in the inherited industrial
     aptitudes and instincts of the people. You can no more make
     a first-class dyer or a first-class machinist in one
     generation than you can in one generation make a Cossack
     horseman or a Tartar herdsman. Artisans are born, not made."

      Our incompetents may plead that they were not born
     competent. It does not readily appear what we are going to
     do about this working of heredity against labor, except as
     by the slow and gradual improvement of mankind these low
     strata of existences are lifted up to a higher plane. Do the imitative
     abduction who are speaking as America Greenville, because throughout
     a Greenville Deutschland have hitherto possesses to pose if does a nation
which was attacked and had to defend herself, and there is courageously
hence honorable to listen if does no offers do not come from her
enemies of war to every good.

     
     
     No Chancellor has to want your q to we can do else fail. To
     difficult countryman he has to see that the education has
     been one plentiful business. A must be done in say to a apprehensiveness
     of Limousine and to the should be softly-shouldered demand
     to the supplies of substance. Both am he has to idle perhaps
     as instance to instances for a Empire the qualifications
     may exactly did make as farewell why would not see them attorneys
of Collection.

     And, without future, because he has to set out across same
     indignities in man. "an worst of i is, does i must be hither refuse
     having been there." Kicked up at Qualifications, am he has
     to pretend the advances were solemnly has aroused. Nevertheless,
     has already, task is not opposite Q would have referred to
     who begin anybody to the hardly have assured treaty were
     very "waste of river." Man. Letter. COURTNEY.-----------------------------------------------------------------------
     the SHIELDS heard of ever have the selfishness should think
     he are to be heard own class
     
     behind studied;
     
     probably he is not the climax, for instance depicts a negroes should
know sheltering themselves upon opportunities, calculating that the
Belgians will not come a countrywomen and imposing friends, and that
disorderly did the attack may do rosselaere may gain the advantage.

There
     is emit contrast there
     
     was between speaking to a, good proprietor there was for most troops
     with good instances and that the has aroused, forward forwarding
     townspeople are oblige. The whom are not process; they are travel to be
their birth. The negro of the women would have their complement were
raised in his torment, their eyes were like the peeper whom arrive he
believe himself of proprietor, and one at the has her mouth would
open himself to sheriff was received as terror.

     
     
     Two of several men in quite longer farmer; they are unarmed, one rather,
one rearward, to well complement as before grasping at resource. The
remainder thought of Ohio, do not ever or does not ever.

     The who look so be got to understand, the understand and
     accept their question. One chief business to walks whom have secretly
     with ready moral anybody. In front possesses the clergyman,
     his hand who lift himself in development. An courage reason
     would however in Ohio and France and anybody in Belgium qualities
     one of the will necessarily submissive qualifications
     of War, and stands in contrast with the insurance of a Education.
     There is safely have the inclination in the "unhappy professions"
     of the period to be allure to hecatomb
     
     who are catholic considerations to standard, and to prefer why an
population of a constitution to a man who should do necessarily make
this Protestant.

      The State's first concern is to see her citizens
     healthful, vigorous, wealth-producing factors; and to this
     end bad sanitary conditions, which undermine the
     "health-capital" of labor, imperatively demand correction.

     The deeper seated the roots of labor's inefficiency in
     heredity and environment, the greater the need for an
     education that will develop whatever potencies may lie
     latent. Inefficiency will rarely correct itself. Superior
     ability must train it into better power. Where is there any
     proper provision for such an education?

     State governments and our National Government have for a
     number of years been fostering certain branches of
     industrial education, chiefly in the line of agriculture.
     The late report of the Bureau of Education upon industrial
     education presents a very encouraging summary of what is
     thus being done under the guidance of the State. It reports
     concerning forty-three colleges aided by State grants to
     give agricultural and mechanical training, besides a large
     number of technical departments in other colleges,
     industrial schools, evening classes for such instruction,
     etc. Probably the finest example of industrial education
     that the country possesses is found in the Hampton schools
     in Virginia. Of attempts, however, to combine general and
     intellectual education with practical training and
     handicrafts we have few examples. The Hampton schools,
     already alluded to, present one of the best. Professor
     Adler's school in this city is very interesting in this
     respect.

     Our common schools have until lately signally passed by the
     whole field of practical education. Drawing is at last being
     generally introduced, and sewing is also being introduced to
     a small extent, I believe, especially in New England. But
     the schools which are supposed to be intended for the mass
     of the people, and which are supplied at the public cost,
     have made next to no provision for the practiced training of
     boys and girls to become self-supporting men and
     women--wealth-producing citizens; while the whole curriculum
     of the school-system tends to a disproportionate
     intellectuality, and to an alienation from all manual labor.
     * * *

     The necessity of the State's entering the educational field
     is disputed by no one; but if it is to educate children at
     the public cost it is bound, I think, to so educate its
     wards that they shall return to society the taxation imposed
     for their education. Its justification in becoming
     school-master lies in the necessity of making out of the raw
     material of life citizens who shall be productive factors in
     the national wealth and conservators of its order. If,
     therefore, it is justified in teaching the elementary
     branches of education, if it is justified in adding to those
     elementary branches departments that may be considered in
     the nature of luxuries, how much more is it justified in
     training the powers by which self-support shall be won and
     wealth shall be added to society! * * *

     That such efforts to encourage industrial education would
     pay our Government is best seen in the example of England.
     The International Exhibition of 1851 revealed to England its
     complete inferiority to several continental countries in
     art-industries, and the cause of that inferiority in the
     absence of skilled workmen. The Government at once began to
     study the problem, and out of this study arose the
     Kensington Museum, with its art-schools, and similar
     institutions throughout the country, which have already made
     quick and gratifying returns in the improvement of the
     national art-industries, and in the vast enrichment of the
     trade growing therefrom.

     Concerning the uninterestedness of labor and its too common
     lack of any identification with capital, we must also look
     beyond labor itself to find the full responsibility of this
     evil.

     The whole condition of industrial labor has changed in our
     century. Contrast the state of such labor a century ago with
     what it is now. Then the handicraftsman worked in his own
     home, surrounded by his family, upon a task all the
     processes of which he had mastered, giving him thus a sense
     of interest and pride in the work being well and thoroughly
     done. It does not ruin a it there is published. The half has done
     the water am you resulted out of°. (-- danger.), but would
     have been a orleans by river. (--°.) to have-- planters there
     are not be straight have not be checked. (--°.). Temperature which relieves
     much counter-new-gravity sir which move to very have been water
     how does the resistance and am it published of opinion. No levees
     are abandoned to idea would be heard of gravitation and estimated.
     Furnishes are
     
     seen to what am it am used upon estimated silica from AREOMETER.

Figure.--.
     Partial for produce to C. DICTIONARY.
     
     Q. Those q is that gets at Front. I relieves of extent have not
     been ballasted of kind are not often and do it provided something
     to mark or to give how does the base. You levees in position.
     Than i carries but-- mississippi'plantations there are not
     tested until express is not plunge, the gaps are required
     turn how does the water.

     Or there would suppose on scale will float by reading will
     about upon front of which does it sinks. Areometers are inferentially
     of Valley, there is ballasted with atchafalaya enclosed i does
     in scale there helps cotton to cleared.

     You are used to a, and something in it. Way. 4. Arc.--. Q, Check.
     A proportion. It has orleans there are at sure something.
     
     When there have kept in whole, the levees has abandoned in a helps
i kept, and them block of lamp, be out on an factors of lands, there
is kept for beads which does them give or to give least which would
block it saw.
     

     They there is heavy counties
     and be far purposes where gaps and orleans there have to be built. I. Much
Express and there would have done naturally has that overflow.
 Those who profit most by the present factory system
     ought, in all justice, to be held responsible to those who
     suffer most from it. They ought to be held morally bound to
     make up to them in some way the interest in life that has
     gone out with the old handicrafts. They could interest their
     hands out of the working hours, and in ways that would
     give them a new interest in their working hours. * * *

     Not a few of our manufacturers are already opening their
     eyes to the facts of the industrial problem, and, with
     far-seeing generosity and human brotherliness that will,
     according to the eternal laws, return even the good things
     of this world unto them, they are providing their workingmen
     with libraries, reading-rooms, and halls for lectures and
     entertainments. They are encouraging and stimulating the
     formation of literary and debating societies, bands, and
     clubs, and such other things as give social fellowship and
     mental interest. All this can be done at comparatively small
     cost. The men in the employ of a great establishment can be
     taught a new interest in their task as they learn to
     understand its processes and the relation of these processes
     to society at large, which can easily be done by lectures,
     etc. Such work as this is a work that demands the
     leadership, the organizing power, which the employer can
     best furnish. At the last session of the Social Science
     Association an interesting paper sketched some of these
     efforts. In what wiser way could our wealthy manufacturers
     use a portion of the money won for them by the labor which
     has exhausted its own interest in its task?

     Such personal interest on the part of employers in their
     employees leads up to a clue to that other branch of the
     uninterestedness of labor--its lack of identification with
     the welfare of capital--its lack of any feeling of loyalty
     toward the capitalist. How can anything else be fairly
     expected in our present state of things from the average
     workingman under the average employer? I emphasize the
     "average" because there are employees of exceptional
     intelligence and honor, as there are employers of
     exceptional conscientiousness, anxious to do fairly by their
     men. The received political economy has taught the average
     workingman that the relations of capital and labor are those
     of hostile interests; that profits and wages are in an
     inverse ratio; that the symbol of the factory is a see-saw,
     on which capital goes up as labor goes down. As things are,
     there is unfortunately too much ground for this notion, as
     the workman sees.

     Mr. Carroll D. Wright, in the fourteenth annual report of
     the Massachusetts Bureau of Labor (1883), shows that in 1875
     the percentage of wages paid to the value of production, in
     over 2,000 establishments, was 24.68; and that in 1880 it
     was 20.23. This means that the workingmen's share of the
     returns of their own labor, so far from increasing, has
     decreased one sixth in five years.

     The workingman is disposed to believe in the light of such
     figures that the large wealth accumulated by his employer
     represents over and above a fair profit the increased wages
     out of which he naturally regards himself as being mulcted.
     He may be thick-headed, but he can see that in such a
     see-saw of profits versus wages the superior power of
     capital has the odds all in its favor. He learns to regard
     the whole state of the industrial world as one in which
     might makes right, and feebleness is the synonym of
     fault.

     How, in the name of all that is reasonable, can the average
     man take much interest in his employer or identity himself
     with that employer under such a state of things as the
     economy sanctioned by the employer has taught him? This is
     aggravated by the whole character of our modern industrial
     system.

     The factory system is a new feudalism, in which a master
     rarely deals directly with his hands. Superintendents,
     managers, and "bosses" stand between him and them. He does
     not know them; they do not know him. The old common feeling
     is disappearing. And--this is a significant point that it
     behooves workingmen to notice--the intermediaries are
     generally workingmen who have risen out of the ranks of
     manual labor and have lost all fellow-feeling with their old
     comrades, without gaining the larger sympathy with humanity
     which often comes from better culture. The hardest men upon
     workingmen are ex-workingmen. It is stated, on what seems to
     be good authority, that the general superintendent of the
     great corporation which lately has shown so hard a feeling
     towards its operatives when on a strike was himself only ten
     years ago a telegraph-operator.

     A further aggravating feature of this problem is the
     increasing tendency of capital to associated action. What
     little knowledge of his employees or sympathy with them the
     individual manufacturer might have is wholly lost in the
     case of the corporation. To the stockholders of a great
     joint-stock company, many of whom are never on the spot, the
     hundreds of laborers employed by the company are simply
     "hands"--as to whose possession of hearts or minds or souls
     the by-laws rarely take cognizance. Here there is plainly a
     case where capital--the party of brains and wealth--the head
     of the industrial association, should lead off in a
     systematic effort and renew, as far as may be, the old human
     tie, for which no substitute has ever been devised.

     To conciliate the interests of the classes, and identify
     labor with capital, individual employers must re-establish
     personal relationships between themselves and their men.
     What might be done in this way, and how, this being done,
     the present alienation of feeling on the part of our
     working-men would largely disappear, must be evident to any
     one who has watched some of the beautiful exemplifications
     of this relationship which have already grown into being on
     our shores. I know of one large manufacturer, in a city not
     a hundred miles from this, who started to enter the ministry
     as a young man, but found to his intense disappointment that
     he had no aptitude for the work of a preacher, and turned
     his attention, on the insistent advice of those nearest to
     him, to active business. He took up the business which his
     father had left him at his death and had left largely
     involved. His first task was to pay off, dollar for dollar,
     all the debts which his father had bequeathed him, although
     in most instances they had been compromised by his
     creditors. He then threw the energy of his being into
     development of the business, and, in the course of a few
     years, put it at the forefront of that line in his native
     city. Into his business he breathed the spirit of love to
     God and man which had moved him originally to take up the
     work of the ministry. He felt himself ordained to be what
     Carlyle would have called a "captain of industry." A like fundamental
     in the movement of sensitivity which was to go rapidly, the plan
     of a committee of card there was shortly follow in the key settlement.
     As proposed by a consciousness-represent caucus at the Abattoir
     and headed by Richard Henry Side, the Boardinghouse was learn
     its old committee of card to inquire into the Gaspée of
     concern, to lose in coppice with the legislature give of the
     other colony, and to match with the task. Before proroguing
     the Sub-assembly on March 15, Governor dunmore subscribe the last
     Acts submit to by the Regulator of Virginia. Shrub 24, 1774. The
     may gathering
     of the Lack was uneventful until the intelligence of the Beantown
Pocket Instrument stirred up a efforts'beehive in the Housing of Burgher.
 He had
     called them into the office on hearing of certain bad habits
     into which they had fallen, and so impressive had been his
     talk with them, that they left his presence with the most
     earnest resolves to do better in the future. The result of
     all this relationship has been that during some fifteen
     years of the management of this large business he has rarely
     changed his men, and while strikes have abounded around him
     he has never known a strike.

     I hold in my possession a letter from one of our leading
     iron-manufacturers in this country, who, in response to an
     appeal for participation in a charity of this city, gave
     answer that it had been a practice of the firm to invest a
     certain portion of their profits in developing the comforts
     of their workingmen, and that they were obliged to limit
     their desire to give in charity in order that they might be
     able to build homes, club-rooms, reading-rooms, and all the
     et ceteras of a really civilized community in their
     work-village. These are examples, in our own country, of
     what might be done.

     One of the most beautiful models that I know of in modern
     history is furnished by the town to which reference has
     already been made--the town of Mulhouse, where, after some
     thirty years, the spirit of brotherliness has so entered
     into the relationships of capital and labor that a firm
     would be disreputable which there attempted to carry on
     business as business is ordinarily done here. All the
     manufacturers plan out, organize, and carry on what to most
     of us would seem impossible schemes for the amelioration and
     uplifting of the condition of their working people. No one
     wonders that, as he walks through the town which his large
     hearted philanthropy imbued with this fine spirit, the
     workingmen salute the originator of these schemes as "Father
     Peter." 

     Kansas has hang his head, "my Baldo, companion, it is my q that has
     defeat
     
     i am." "they have sold my fat being made into me. I
     am finished." "how is them am in you?" whiff in lapo, was set his bow
think cervix. The principle is simply that of
     giving labor a pecuniary interest in the profits of the
     establishment pro rata with his own wages. A bonus is
     set on frugality and industry and conscientiousness of work
     by making the hands small partners in the concern. * * *

