Now Ulf had ploughed the sea so much in his youth that he was delighted to plough the land
for the rest of his life. Wulf, as a boy, saw quite enough of sea-life to satisfy him. As it
happened, Loup cared little for roaming; and the old traditions of the past were quite forgotten.
But one day young Louis of Daneshold entered the armoury by chance, and came across a somewhat
rusty old shirt of mail, quite out of style. He knew it must date back to the time of the vikings,
and must have seen many a wild fray, and the fancy took him to polish it up and look for scars.
In those days a lad was taught to shine up his armour as carefully as now he would be expected
to polish his boots, and it was a pleasure to Louis to sit down with sand and buff-leather
in the narrow window of the tower, and rub away at the steel until his arm ached. Then when
the sunlight trickled over the mesh as brightly as it ever did, he began his scar-hunting.
Then he rubbed his eyes with amazement, for scar there was none! Not a link was broken, not
a dent. Only on one shoulder lay a thin shadow when the light was right, clearly the score
of a swashing blow yet too shallow to be called a scar. What a wonderful thing was this!

He sprang up and slipped it on over his broad young shoulders. It fitted like a glove, and
the sunset glow flushed in at the window and streamed across him in a ruddy battle-flood. In
that same second he was seized with a longing to leave all this peacefulness, this land of
lowing cattle and calm sunset, and see other lands and other ways of living. It was in his
blood. A roamer he must be, as his great- grandfather had been before him. Then and there he
made up his mind to be in the fashion with the courtly world that stirred in the heart of England.
He would join the Crusade!

Do you know what that was?

In Palestine lies the holy city of Jerusalem, the burial-place of Jesus. For hundreds of years
men had journeyed there,--folk called them pilgrims,--because it was such a holy place that
just to visit it was thought to make men better, and more sure of Heaven in the eternity to
come. But the way was hard and dangerous, and the journey at last became almost impossible;
for from the far East had come Arabs, Moors, Syrians, dark races who wore turbans, whose flag
was red with a silver crescent in it, and who worshipped God in another and a bloodier way
than ours. To them, also, Jerusalem was a holy place.

Westward their armies swept until at last they captured the city, and they hold it as a Moslem
possession to this day,--though twice for a short time it was wrested from them by the armies
of the West. It seemed to those western men a terrible thing thus to surrender the sacred city
to the "infidel." So king after king planned expeditions, with his neighbours, and sailed away
with their bravest knights and fighting-men to recover it. These expeditions were called "crusades,"
and it was the third of these that Louis of Daneshold made up his mind to join.

Now, if he had been a great captain he would have sailed with a small army of fighting-men
at his back, but being as he was, but a youth, with his war days all before him, he started
more modestly; for in those times young men who had not learned by experience were content
to work their way upward in the train of some knight of renown and wait for chances to win
their names. Also, it was thought to be such a privilege that a famous knight was likely to
have in his company as squires (as such usually well-born attendants were called) only the
sons of his own personal friends; thus the best chance that Louis could obtain was but to be
a squire in the troop of a poor knight who was quite unknown, and who was glad indeed to have
a broad-shouldered youth along who paid his own way, and his own retainer's also, instead of
asking payment.

