FIRE MOUNTAIN

A Thrilling Sea Story

BY

NORMAN SPRINGER

AUTHOR OF "THE BLOOD SHIP"

NEW YORK

G. HOWARD WATT

558 MADISON AVENUE

1923

COPYRIGHT, 1923, BY

G. HOWARD WATT

Printed in the United States of America

CONTENTS

CHAPTER.

     I.  THE MISSION
    II.  THE WEEPING BOATSWAIN
   III.  THE HAPPY HUNCHBACK
    IV.  THE BLACK CRUISER
     V.  WILD BOB CAREW
    VI.  PRISONER
   VII.  THE MATE OF THE BRIG "COHASSET"
  VIII.  AROUND THE CABIN TABLE
    IX.  THE MOUNTAIN IN THE SMOKY SEA
     X.  THE WHALEMAN'S LOG
    XI.  THE CODE
   XII.  THE PASSAGE
  XIII.  FIRE MOUNTAIN
   XIV.  OUT OF THE FOG
    XV.  IN THE LAZARET
   XVI.  THREE GENTLEMEN CONVERSE
  XVII.  TWO MEN AND A MAID
 XVIII.  THROUGH THE ELEPHANT'S HEAD
   XIX.  THE EDGE OF THE ABYSS
    XX.  TREASURE CAVE
   XXI.  DECOY
  XXII.  TABLES TURNED
 XXIII.  CONCLUSION

CHAPTER I

THE MISSION

years.  Bright, aslant eyes, and a suave and ever-ready smile that broke immediately Martin
met his gaze.

"You will be so good as to inform the honorable that Dr. Ichi is here?" he asked in precise
and stilted voice.

Ever the same--the noiseless entry, the quietly spoken request for the lawyer.  Martin repressed
a flash of irritation; the little Japanese, with his uncanny soft-footedness and stereotyped
address, got upon his nerves.  However, his orders were explicit; Mr. Smatt would see Dr. Ichi
without delay or preliminary, whenever Dr. Ichi favored the office with a visit.  It was already
the third visit that day, but orders were orders.

So, Martin inclined his head toward the door of Smatt's private office. The Japanese crossed
the room.  He bowed to Martin, as stately a bow as if Martin were also an "honorable," instead
of a poor devil of a law clerk; then, noiselessly as he had entered the outer office, Dr. Ichi
disappeared within Smatt's sanctum.

Martin turned to his window again.  But his bright day dream was fled, and he could not conjure
it back again.  The view was without charm. His thoughts, despite himself, persisted in centering
upon the dapper little figure now closeted with his employer.  The dandified Jap aroused Martin's
interest.

What manner of client was this Dr. Ichi?  Martin had not seen a single scrap of paper, nor
had Smatt dropped a single hint, concerning the case.  It was mysterious!  Martin was not an
overly curious chap, but he was human.

It was another of Smatt's secret cases, thought Martin.  Another token of those hidden activities
of the old vulture, which he sensed, but did not know about.  For, though Martin attended to
the routine work, though his duties were responsible--Smatt specialized and was prominent in
maritime law--still Martin knew he did not enjoy his employer's complete confidence.

Much of Smatt's time was taken up with cases Martin knew nothing about, with clients who appeared
to shun the daylight of the courts.  The Nippon Trading Company, for instance!  Martin knew
Smatt was interested in a company of that name--a strange company, that apparently conducted
business without using the mails.  And there was business between Ichi and Smatt--money, or
Smatt would have nothing to do with it.  The mystery aroused Martin's dormant curiosity.

But all his speculation was pointless.  Martin bethought himself of the marine affidavit lying
uncompleted upon his desk.  He turned from the window with the intention of applying himself
to that task--and he discovered the office to have a second visitor.  Another unusual figure
who possessed the penchant for surreptitious entry.  He observed the fellow in the very act
of closing the office door.

"Say, you!  Didn't you see the sign on the door, 'Please Knock'?" exclaimed Martin.  "Can't
you read English?"

"I'm no knocker, I'm a booster.  Besides I don't believe in signs," was the surprising response.

The visitor faced about as he spoke, and Martin took stock of him.  He was a hunchback.  He
was seedily clad in a shiny black suit, but a modish green velvet hat, several sizes too small,
perched precariously atop his very large head and gave him an oddly rakish appearance.  But
his face was pleasing--a wide grin, a snub nose, a pair of twinkling eyes beneath a broad,
intelligent forehead.  Martin immediately commenced to thaw as the other smiled.

The hunchback carried a book under one arm, a formidable appearing volume.  With a dexterous
flirt, he bounced it into his hand and thrust it beneath Martin's very nose.

"The bargain of the century--cannot afford to miss it--wonderful opportunity first time offered,"
he began in a sing-song.

Martin stiffened with surprise.  Not at the words; he was accustomed to book-agents of strange
guise.  But the voice!  A rich, throaty tenor with not a squeak in it.  The man's discourse
was like a song.

"Cost you nothing.  Wonderful Compendium of Universal Knowledge--compiled after years of labor--faculties
of great universities.  Cost you nothing; Absolutely free."

The golden voice sang on.  Martin found his gaze upon the book, and then upon the hand that
held the book.  That hand!  Surely, no book-agent ever possessed such a hand--brown-backed,
big, and muscular, plainly the hand of an outdoors man.  Where the sleeve fell away from the
wrist Martin glimpsed the blue of a tattooed figure.  A sailor's hand?

He raised his eyes to the hunchback's face, noting as he did the great length of arm, and the
unnaturally square yet muscular shoulder.  And the face!  A book-agent might be expected to
have tanned cheeks, his occupation not being a sedentary one.  But surely, such a bronzed and
weather-lined coating as this man's face wore was never gained by winning past janitors or
tramping city streets.

"Possible to make offer only because of great advertising campaign--you reap advantage free
of charge.  Wonderful volume absolutely free.  You merely subscribe to Coleman's Weekly--ten
cents a week, fifty cents a month, price of magazine--wonderful Compendium of Universal Knowledge--cost
you absolutely nothing----"

The hunchback pattered on.  Book-agent or no, Martin conceded he had the technique of the craft
at his tongue's tip.  His eyes--suddenly, Martin was aware of the peculiar behavior of the
other's eyes.  The were roving about the office from point to point, as if the fellow were
endeavoring to fix in his mind every feature of the room.  But most often, Martin noticed,
his gaze rested upon the door to Smatt's private office, through which came at intervals the
hoarse murmur of Smatt's voice.  Once, atop the murmur, came a few words in Dr. Ichi's clipped
and even tones----

"Plan--good--have caution--proceed----"

The hunchback ceased talking.  Martin attributed his satisfied smile to assurance of a sale;
the chap evidently had confidence in his musical patter.  Martin felt almost sorry as he declined
the greatest offer of the century.  His brain was already overburdened, he kindly explained,
and he dare not risk brain fag by delving into the matchless Compendium.  Of course, some other
day, when finances...

The purveyor of knowledge took the refusal easily.  Martin had expected him to lose his smile,
but it grew wider.  So Martin braced himself to receive the assault of facts and figures he
was sure was preparing. Instead, however, came a raucous command from the other room.

"Blake, come here!"

It was characteristic of Josiah Smatt that his offices had few of the modern business accoutrements.
No conventional stenographer powdered her nose and received clients in an ante-room, no traditional
office-boy harried the janitor or played in the corner upon a mouth-organ, no call-buzzers
frazzled the nerves.

Smatt was a prominent legal light in shipping circles, and he was not parsimonious.  But he
was eccentric.  He carried his secrets and most of his bookkeeping beneath his hat; Martin,
his one employee, was admitted to only partial confidence.  And whenever Mr. Smatt wished his
clerk to attend upon him, he lifted up his voice and bellowed.

It was this bellow that checked the book agent's flow of words, and startled Martin into activity.
Mr. Smatt did not like to be kept waiting.

"Sorry," Martin said to the hunchback, "but I'm called in there. You'll have to get out.  Couldn't
use your book anyway."

"Oh, that's all right," responded the other airily.  "You will observe I do not depart downcast!
It has really, sir, helped me a lot, just to visit you--helped me a very great deal.  You are
a pleasant chap!"

Martin entered the inner office, and he had a last glimpse of the queer, deformed little figure,
book under arm, velvet hat cocked over one ear, in the act of negotiating the outer exit.

Martin, standing docilely before Smatt's desk, discovered himself to be the subject of a searching
scrutiny from two pairs of eyes.  Both Smatt and Dr. Ichi, the latter seated at the lawyer's
right hand, were critically inspecting the tall, good-looking young fellow who faced them.

Martin was accustomed to the lawyer's boring glances.  He returned Smatt's stare, and experienced
more keenly than usual his sense of dislike for the man.  Smatt's face was in keeping with
his voice, which was rusty.  It was bleak and lantern-jawed, with a gash for a mouth, and a
great beak of a nose that thrust out between two cold gray eyes. He was quite bald.  An impressive
appearing old man, not one to inspire affection but fear.  One year of service had endowed
Martin with no sense of loyalty or liking for the man.  Now, he returned Smatt's gaze with
one of indifference, tinged with hostility.

"Blake, I wish you to execute a mission for me tonight," said Smatt.

Martin inclined his head in understanding.  Executing missions at night-time for Mr. Smatt
was a not uncommon experience.  He rather liked these confidential errands, though he sometimes
doubted the good faith of the man who inspired them.  They took him into strange corners of
the city, to interview strange characters.  They were the one exciting feature of his drab
employment.

The lawyer picked up from his desk a well-stuffed and tightly sealed legal-sized envelope.
He turned to the Japanese, as if for approval or permission, and Dr. Ichi, without removing
his bright, oblique eyes from Martin's face, inclined his head in agreement with that unspoken
communication.  The lawyer faced Martin again, but the latter had the feeling that, despite
Smatt's heavy voice and forceful personality, it was the silent little Dr. Ichi who dominated
the situation.

"You are to deliver this envelope to a man named Carew, Captain Robert Carew," commenced Smatt.
"At ten o'clock tonight, exactly, you will enter a drinking saloon situated on the corner of
Green Street and the Embarcadero.  This resort is known as the Black Cruiser Saloon, and is
conducted by a person named Spulvedo--you will find both names on a sign over the entrance."

The lawyer looked inquiringly toward Dr. Ichi, and the latter nodded confirmation of the instruction
and description.  Smatt continued.

"You will speak with this man, Spulvedo, taking care not to be overheard, and you will ask
him to conduct you to Captain Carew."

Martin nodded his understanding as the lawyer paused, and extended his hand for the envelope.
It was simple.  This Carew was evidently lying doggo in this water-front saloon.

"One moment!" said Smatt.  "Repeat your instructions."

Martin obeyed, and, being blessed with a memory, he repeated them verbatim.

"Very good," said Smatt.  "Now, for the rest."  He shot a quick glance to Dr. Ichi, and the
Japanese bowed.  "This person, Spulvedo, will lead you into Captain Carew's presence.  Under
no circumstances will you deliver this envelope to other than Carew, himself.  You may identify
him readily by his appearance.  He is a large, blond man, with a deep voice.  He speaks with
an English accent, using the words of an educated man.  A star is tattooed in red upon the
back of his right hand."

Smatt paused again.  Martin, parrot-like, repeated the other's words. Dr. Ichi inclined his
head in approval.  Smatt continued:

"To make your identification doubly sure, you will use this precaution: When you approach Carew
you will say, 'I wish to see you on the Hakotdate business.'  He will respond, 'It is time
that business was settled.  Did the Chief send you?'  Then you will deliver the envelope to
him.  Now, repeat in full my instructions."

Martin complied correctly.  Dr. Ichi silently signified his approval. Smatt handed the sealed
envelope across the desk, and Martin straightway stowed it in his inside coat-pocket.

"Of course, Blake, you are to mention this matter to no one," was the lawyer's parting injunction
as Martin withdrew from the room.

It seemed to Martin, as he reëntered the outer office, that the room's air had the indefinable
tinge of very recent occupancy.  When he emerged from the private office, he seemed to be treading
upon some one's heels, so to speak.  He opened the door and looked out into the hall, but the
hall was empty.  Then he dismissed the matter from his mind as a fancy.

CHAPTER II

THE WEEPING BOATSWAIN

Martin lived at Mrs. Meagher's Select Board for Select People establishment, far out in the
western addition.  He was star boarder, and as such made free with Mrs. Meagher's little private
parlor.  A fire always burned there on cool evenings, and moreover, he escaped the ragtime
that nightly filled the community room where the piano was, the interminable arguments anent
the European war, and the coy advances of the manicure lady.

In that little room Martin spent his best hours.  It was there he retreated to read his favorite
fiction, red-blooded and exciting stories, without exception.  It was there he lived a life
apart, a life in a strange and desirable environment.  For Martin always identified himself
with the sprightly hero of the evening's tale.  He, Martin Blake, suffered, despaired, triumphed,
and galloped off with the heroine.  And when the story's end was reached, he returned to the
drab reality of his existence with revolt in his soul.

"You worm, you well-fed, white-faced office grub!" he told himself. "Why don't you do something?
Why don't you get out of the rut?  You have no responsibilities; you are foot loose!  Then
why don't you get out there, where adventure is, where things happen!"

But then would come the rub.  Where was "out there," and how reached by a pen-driving clerk?

After supper, Martin carried his magazine into the private parlor and ensconced himself before
the grate fire.  He read a yarn of ships and mutinies and treasure trove--hot stuff!

But there was a fly in the ointment of Martin's content.  Of late, his sanctuary was not always
inviolate.  On the occasion of the past Christmas, an absent and fiendish-minded nephew had
presented Mrs. Meagher with a phonograph.  This instrument of torture Mrs. Meagher installed
in the little parlor, and at frequent intervals she sat herself down before it and indulged
in a jamboree of musical noise.

But this night Martin hoped for quiet.  Mrs. Meagher had seemed busily engaged recounting rheumatic
symptoms to Mary, the cook, and Martin knew from bitter experience that the recital usually
occupied an hour and a half.  Then, there was a good chance the matron would betake her buxom
person bedward without visiting the parlor.

Luck smiled.  Martin planned to read until nine o'clock before leaving the house to carry out
the mission of his employer.  He had no mind to leave sooner, for a keen, April wind ruled
outdoors San Francisco that night.

He did read until eight o'clock, and then a rustle heralded the approach of the storm and diverted
his attention from the printed page. Mrs. Meagher sailed into the room, her ample figure clothed
in her best black silk house gown.  Martin's spirits sank to zero--she always donned this funeral
drapery before operating the infernal contraption in the corner.

Mrs. Meagher dropped into her rocking-chair and groaned tentatively. Martin read desperately.
He knew as long as he kept his eyes upon his book she was much too considerate to disturb him,
and between phonographic noise and rheumatic reminiscence, he chose the former as being escapable.

The good woman hitched her chair over to the machine.  Martin writhed in spirit.  It was not
that he was insensible to harmony, even though canned.  He was quite receptive while a booming
basso rang the bell in the lighthouse, dingdong.  He was even stoical when the sextette brayed
forth the sorrows of Lucia.  But the while a dread clutched him.

Mrs. Meagher had a favorite record.  She played it regularly, and wept cheerfully at each performance.
The piece was anathema to Martin.

He watched the old lady out of the corners of his eyes.  She searched her record case and arose
triumphant.  The well-hated, jangling prelude filled the room.  Martin dropped his book and
accomplished a swift and silent exit.

In the hallway, the manicure lady bobbed her suspiciously yellow head and smiled provocatively.
Martin fled to the cloak-rack near the door. Hurriedly he donned top-coat and hat.  Until he
finally closed the front door behind him, a tinny wail poured out of the little parlor and
assailed his ears, a reedy soprano declaiming passionately that she had raised no son of hers
to the profession of arms.

Martin sighed with profound relief as he slammed that door.  He thus shut behind him such disagreeable
facts as favorite ballads and peroxide blondes.  It was like shunting a burden off his shoulders.

He stood a moment on the stoop, under the area light, drawing on his gloves and regarding the
night.  A night of bright stars, but no moon. A sharp, windy night, he shivered even beneath
his overcoat, but the air tasted good and fresh.  The darkness charitably covered the respectable
ugliness of the neighborhood.  Under the twinkling street-lamps the commonplace street assumed
a foreign and even romantic air.

Martin's spirits mounted.  Was he not setting forth on an errand of mystery?  Why, something
might happen to a fellow on such a night!

Something did happen, and at once, though Martin attached no importance to the event at the
time.  Standing there under the area light, Martin drew forth the envelope that was the occasion
of his errand, to assure himself by evidence of eyesight that it was still in existence.  He
thrust it into the inside pocket of his overcoat, as being a safe and handy receptacle.  As
he did so, a suppressed sneeze made him aware he was not alone upon the stairway.  Somebody
was on the stoop before the house next door.

Mrs. Meagher's establishment was housed in the half of a three-story structure.  All of the
houses of the block were thus built in pairs. Only a balustrade separated their front steps.

Now Martin knew the house next door was vacant.  Even in the darkness, he could discern the
real estate agent's sign in the front window. Hence his surprise in beholding a man pressing
the doorbell of the empty house--for that, he discerned, was what the person who sneezed was doing.

"For whom are you looking?" called Martin.  "That house is empty. Don't you see the sign!"

Without a word, the man turned and ran lightly down the steps, and set off at a smart pace
down the street.  Martin noticed the fellow wore a long gray overcoat and cap, and that he
seemed remarkably light upon his feet.

"Queer," thought Martin.  "Didn't seem drunk.  Maybe a tramp looking for lodgings.  Didn't
look like a tramp, though."

And then, as he set out for the corner and the street-car, the incident slipped from his mind.

No street-car was in sight, and Martin withdrew to the friendly lee of the House of Feiglebaum
to await its coming.  Here, pressed against the window, he was sheltered from the wind that
swept around the corner.

The front of the House of Feiglebaum was at that hour dark, but a few yards distant a light
blazed over the entrance to the other and more profitable part of Feiglebaum's business.  Johnny
Feiglebaum was part of an industry indigenous to San Francisco--he kept a combination grocery
store and saloon, the latter a quiet place that was stranger to mixed drinks and hilarity.
It was sort of a neighborhood rendezvous; most of the henpecked husbands of the district sought
haven there, and surcease of care with cribbage and pale beer.

Martin debated whether or not to enter and join in a game with one of this subdued brotherhood;
he had two hours, almost, to spend ere he was due at the Black Cruiser.  He decided against
it as being too mild a pastime for his mood.  He felt fit for adventure, this night.

An extra keen gust of wind swept around the corner and invaded Martin's refuge.  He shrank
back into the dark doorway in search of a warmer retreat.  He backed against something soft,
something alive.  He swung about with words of apology on his tongue for the prior occupant
of the shelter.

His startled gaze encountered a broad back.  A man stood there in the far corner of the doorway,
his back to the street, his head seemingly bowed in his arms.  A man of such huge proportions,
that Martin, but two inches less than six feet, himself, felt like a pigmy in comparison. 
The man's outline was vague and enhanced by the gloom; Martin, a-tingle with the unexpected
collision, had the first thought it was a preposterous apparition.

There came a rumble from the giant's corner.  It was a noise as surprising as the other's appearance;
it checked Martin's apology.  It was a rumble of parts; it seemed to be compounded of a prodigious
sigh, a strangled sob, and a sneeze.  It bespoke misery.

"Sick?" asked Martin.

A groan.  Then a series of well-formed sighs.  Then the giant turned and loomed above Martin,
snuffling.

"Ow, swiggle me!" rumbled a deep and husky voice.  "Ow, I'm in a proper fix, I am.  Ow, where
'as 'e got 'imself to!  Ow, why didn't I die afore I was born, says I!"

"Why, what is the matter?  Come, come!" exclaimed Martin, aghast at the stricken voice.

The big man teetered to and fro upon his feet.  He was perhaps wrestled by sorrow.  But Martin
smelled whisky.

"Come, brace up!" he admonished.

"Ow, strike me, I'm in for it, I am!" came the plaintive growl.  "I've gone an' lost 'im, I
'ave; I've gone an' lost Little Billy.  Can't find 'im, can't find 'im in the bloomin' town.
I've looked in a thousand bleedin' pubs, I 'ave, and I can't find Little Billy.  Walked a blister
on my foot, I 'ave.  Ow, swiggle me, what a snorkin' day I've 'ad!"

The words tumbled forth heavy laden with alcohol.  Martin could understand there had been a
wet search.  The other groaned and strangled.

"Ow, swiggle me stiff!" he ejaculated despairingly.  "What am I goin' to say to the blessed,
bleedin' little mate!"

"Oh, come now, don't be down-hearted," cheered Martin.  The man and his words fell in with
Martin's mood.

Both were unusual--this was better than listening to a phonograph's banal wail, or conversing
with a giggling manicurist!

"Cheer up, there are many more than a thousand saloons in this city," assured Martin.  "You
have not yet tried them all.  There is one in this building.  Have you visited it?"

"In this building!  A saloon in this building!" echoed the other. There was surprise, and much
less sorrow in his voice.  "Ow, swiggle me stiff, lad, let's go 'ave a wet!"

He placed a hand the size of a ham on Martin's shoulder, lurched out of the doorway and rolled
down the street toward the entrance to Johnny Feiglebaum's.  He had seemed to divine instantly
this particular saloon's location.

Martin accompanied the other willingly; he wished to see more of this strange giant.  The streetcar
he had been awaiting passed by unregarded.  Martin had the feeling, also, that he would have
to accept the big man's invitation, whether or no--that huge hand gripped his shoulder like
a vise.  Feiglebaum's was empty of its usual custom; only old Johnny, himself, from his station
behind the bar, witnessed with scandalized eyes their rather tempestuous entrance.

"Set 'em up for two, matey!" roared Martin's companion, or rather, abductor, as soon as they
crossed the threshold.

The little German's answer was a wail of dismay.

"Ach, Himmel, you here again!" he cried at the big man.  "Mein Gott!  I thought at last you
haf gone!  Marty, mein poy, why haf you brought him back?"

Martin couldn't answer this obviously unfair question.  He was helpless.  The vise squeezed
his shoulder cruelly, and only pride prevented him exclaiming in pain.  Squirming increased
the pressure. His captor half led, half dragged him up to the bar, and there released him.
Martin grunted with relief and nursed his misused flesh.

"I'll 'ave a pot o' beer, says I!" rumbled the big fellow, slapping his hand upon the wood
with a force that made the glasses jingle in their racks.  "And my friend 'ere--why, 'e'll
'ave a pot o' beer, too, says 'e," he concluded, interpreting Martin's nod.

Johnny filled the order with alacrity.  He evidently stood in awe of this strange man.  But
he spluttered indignantly as he set the drinks upon the bar.

"Why haf you brought dot man back here?" he whispered to Martin reproachfully.  "Ach, he is
der deffil's own!  All der evening he haf been in und oudt, und he drink und drink, und talk
und talk and cry apout his trouble.  He haf lost his Beely, his Leedle Beely, und he talk like
I haf stolen him.  Schweinhunde!  Mein Gott, Marty, I would nod steal him--I would nod haf
der verdumpf dog in der blace!"

"A dog!  A dog!  'Oo says 'e's a dog?"  The "schweinhunde" had sharp ears.  He pounded the
bar with his fist, and his voice boomed like distant artillery.  "'E ain't no dog!  Just let
me meet the bloke what calls Little Billy a dog!"  He ignored old Johnny, and glared at Martin
belligerently.  "'E's my mate, is Little Billy, and a proper lad 'e is, for all 'e ain't no
bigger nor a Portagee man-o-war.  A dog!  Swiggle me stiff, that's a squarehead for you!"

He ended with a snort.  Martin hastened to assure him that without doubt Little Billy was a
most proper lad.

The big man received the amends with dignity.  His warlike attitude forsook him.  He drooped
over his beer and mused darkly.  He seemed oppressed by the denseness of "squarehead" stupidity;
he appeared desolated by the absence of the beloved Little Billy.  Martin observed two big
tears roll out of the corners of the other's eyes, course down the sides of his nose and splash
into the goblet of beer.  The man exuded gloom.

Martin seized his first chance to take stock of the fellow.  He gathered an impression of size
and redness.  Why, the man must stand six feet and a half in his boots!  A son of Anak!  And
his head--no wonder the man had temper.  He was afire.  A red face, a red mustache that bristled,
a thatch of brick-red hair that protruded from beneath a blue, peaked cap.  His suit was of
pilot cloth, and he wore a guernsey. He was unmistakably a sailor--both words and appearance
bespoke the seaman.  Martin was surprised to encounter such a specimen in this remote section
of the city, miles distant from the waterfront.

The despondent one aroused himself.  His mooning gaze appeared to encounter the glass of beer
for the first time.  He swept the goblet to his lips and drained it at a gulp.  He seemed cheered
and refreshed.

"Fill 'em up again," he rumbled at Johnny.  "And set one afore my friend, 'ere," he added,
with a wide sweep of arm toward Martin.

Martin was interested.  He grasped the opportunity to re-open the conversation.

"Too bad you lost him," he ventured diplomatically.  "But it is probable he will turn up all
right, isn't it?"

The big man nodded gloomily.

"Ow, yes, 'e'll turn up all right tomorrow.  Safe and sound, 'e'll sleep tonight--bleedin'
safe and sound.  'E'll be in jail.  That's the kind o' sport Little Billy is--can't 'ave a
nice quiet time like me. In jail, 'e'll be.  Ow, swiggle me, I'm in a proper fix!"

"Why, things are not so bad," said Martin.  "If you know where he will be in the morning, you
can bail him out."

"In the morning!  Bail 'im out!" exclaimed the other.  "We can't wait till no morning!  We
got to be aboard tonight, we 'ave!  Ow, Lord, what'll I say to the blessed mate?"

"Oh, I see, you must return to your ship tonight," commented Martin. He was pleased with himself
for having judged the man a sailor from the start.

The sailor nodded his head lugubriously.  Two more tears tumbled his nose's length.  Martin
felt like laughing.  It was ludicrous to connect tears and this huge husky with the fierce voice.

The man of the sea resumed his plaint.

"What'll I say to the mate?  What'll the mate say to me?  Aye, that's it, what'll the blessed,
bleedin' little mate say to me?  Swiggle me stiff, I'll be keelhauled--that's what'll 'appen
to me!  And it all begun so innercent, too!"

Martin murmured condolences.

"Come ashore on account of it being the mate's birthday," confided the other.  "'Ad to sneak
ashore--come this morning.  Wanted to get a birthday present, we did.  Swiggle me, could anything
'ave begun more innercent!"

"Oh, a birthday present!  You must like your officers," prompted Martin.

"Like!  Like!  Why, strike me, lad, we love the little mate!  Ain't anybody on the 'Appy Ship
as don't love the mate, from the Old Man down."

"Happy Ship?" said Martin, struck by the words' connotation.  "Is that the name of your vessel?"

"What we call 'er," the sailor answered.  "'Er name is Cohasset--brig Cohasset.  I'm bosun,
and Little Billy, 'e's steward, and a prime steward 'e is."

The bosun of the brig Cohasset paused and spat stringily.

Martin feared the font of his speech was dried up, and he hurriedly bade Johnny replenish the
glasses.  The bosun acknowledged the office with a lordly gesture.  Then his grief overwhelmed
him, and he bowed his head over his glass and sniffed audibly.  He cultivated retrospection.

"I 'ad 'im all right at the Ferry Building," he told Martin tearfully. "I 'ad Little Billy
right enough, there."

He spoke as if he had Little Billy safely tucked under an arm at the Ferry Building.  He inspected
Martin suspiciously, as if Martin might have the missing steward concealed somewhere about
his person.

"We was walking up Market Street," he continued, "sober as judges, both.  And Billy says a
bokay was what we wanted for the little mate's birthday.  Fine, says I.  A bokay of lilies,
says 'e, because lilies means purity.  No, says I, they got to be roses, roses meanin' beauty.
And so we stops into a place or two to talk it over.  Swiggle me stiff, could anything 'ave
begun more innercent?  Just going to buy a bokay, that's what!  And now----"

The bosun sighed.  He was crushed by the fell consequences of a virtuous intent.

"Ow, swiggle me, lad, what'll I say to the bloomin' little mate, as trusted me so?"  Tears
came again to the bosun's eyes.  "The little mate is goin' to feel terrible hurt--us sneaking
ashore and all," he concluded miserably.  "Ow, swiggle me, fill 'em up again!"

Martin gulped over his glass.  He was astonished.  His cherished and carefully nurtured conception
of the iron-souled men of the sea was receiving knocks.  Here was a sailor, a man with all
the ear-marks of a pugilistic temperament, who wept because the tender feelings of the mate
might have been bruised.  He vowed he loved the mate, he and his shipmates!  What a queer mate,
thought Martin.

Martin knew all about mates.  An ardent perusal of the literature of the sea, from Captain
Marryatt to Captain Kettle, had familiarized him with their character.  They were an iron-fisted,
brazen-voiced race, who swanked and swaggered about the decks and knocked the sailormen galley-west.

The self-reliant and rather disdainful demeanor of the master-mariners who occasionally visited
Smatt's office had confirmed this estimate--they had once been mates.  Had the boatswain mentioned
a fear of being met on his return to his ship, with a flailing capstan-bar, or a dish of belaying-pin
soup, Martin would have understood.  Mates were hasty men.  He could have properly sympathized
with the boatswain over such a prospective fate.  He could have given him legal advice as to
his rights.  But this mate of the brig Cohasset; this mate who commanded nosegays on natal
occasions; this mate who inspired love, and brought bibulous tears to the eyes of this toping
giant!

But another surprise was coming to Martin, one that touched him intimately.  The boatswain
slouched over the bar, deep descended into the slough of despond.  Martin wished to renew the
interesting conversation, but hesitated how to begin.  Funny chap, this sailor, rather soft
and chicken-hearted.

The boatswain muttered to himself.  He was evidently delving into the clouded realm of memory.
Martin caught disconnected words:

"Milly--so innercent.  Swiggle me--brown devils-----"

Suddenly the boatswain straightened up and exploded a tremendous oath.

"It was them blighted brown devils!" he swore.  "What chance 'as a poor 'unchback against them
blasted Japs?  They get 'im in 'Onolulu, and, swiggle me stiff, they get 'im in 'Frisco.  It
was that blasted shark, Ichi!  It was Ichi, says I, as took Little Billy!"

The boatswain thumped the bar.  He was a man who sees a light and likes It not.

Japanese!  Hunchback!  Ichi!  Martin seemed to see a light, also, a dim, uncertain light. 
Perhaps it was the association of words--Japanese, hunchback, Ichi.

Martin suddenly recalled the hunchback book agent of the afternoon.  In his mind's eye, he
beheld the quaint figure standing before him in Smatt's office, while Smatt and Dr. Ichi held
conference behind closed doors.  But it seemed preposterous to identify that friendly, glib
little deformed man as the missing Little Billy, as the bosom friend of this lachrymose viking.
And what could this rough seaman know of the exquisite Dr. Ichi?

The boatswain ceased his vituperation of the Nipponese Empire, and the men thereof, through
sheer lack of breath.  Martin grasped the opportunity.

"Say, what does Little Billy look like?" he queried.  "Did you say he was a hunchback?  How
was he dressed?"

"'E had on his go-ashore togs," said the bosun.  "'E's a proper toff, is Little Billy, when
'e's dressed up.  Yes, 'e's a 'unchback, but you don't notice 'is 'ump after you know 'im.
'E's a lot straighter than some without a 'ump--'e's a white man, is Little Billy.  And 'e's
a proper toff--'e's eddicated.  Swiggle me, 'ow 'e can chew the rag!  And sing!  Sings like
a blessed angel!"

"Did he wear a black suit and a green velvet hat?" asked Martin.

"Yes, 'e did," answered the boatswain excitedly.  "'Ave you seen him?"

"Yes, this afternoon," laughed Martin.  "You need not worry about your Little Billy.  Neither
the police nor the Japs have captured him.  He is improving his chance to pursue the avocation
of book salesman."

Martin recounted his meeting with the purveyor of universal knowledge. The boatswain listened
silently and his red-shot eyes glinted suspiciously.  It seemed to Martin he was not so drunk
as a moment since.

"But, say," finished Martin, "who is this Ichi you mentioned?  Do you know Dr. Ichi?"

"Do I know Dr. Ichi?" echoed the boatswain.  "Do I know----"

He glowered at Martin.  The query seemed to inflame his temper.

"Do you know Ichi?  Hey?  Say, do you know Ichi?  That's what I want to know!"  His manner
became threatening.  "Why, swiggle me stiff, you must be one o' them, yourself!"

Assault seemed imminent.  Martin backed hurriedly away.

"No, no, you are quite mistaken," he assured the boatswain.  "You may be sure I am not one
of them, whoever they are.  I am your friend."

The boatswain subsided growlingly.  He was plainly suspicious--of what, Martin could not guess.
But it was evident that any mention of the name of Ichi peppered his temper.

If Martin had been a cautious young man he would have let well enough alone.  The boatswain
seemed a hasty and a heavy-fisted man.  But Martin's interest was more than piqued.  Here seemed
a chance to learn something about that mysterious Japanese.  This sailor appeared to know him.
Some light might even be thrown upon his errand to the Black Cruiser.  The papers in his inside
pocket oppressed him with their secret.

"Perhaps Little Billy is down on the waterfront," he remarked casually. "He mentioned to me
that he was going to look up a friend on the Embarcadero--a fellow named Carew.  Do you know
Captain Carew?  At a place called the Black Cruiser?"

The boatswain received the remark in a most disconcerting manner.  He stiffened and stared
at Martin, mouth agape, for an appreciable instant.  He seemed breathless.  The semi-paralysis
of drunkenness seemed to flee his face.

"Carew!  Did you say Carew?" he at last exclaimed.  "Strike me, 'e says Carew!"

It seemed that the boatswain had received some momentous morsel of information difficult to
digest.  Suddenly he smote the bar with his clenched fist.  "Carew--'Wild Bob' Carew!" he cried.
"And Wild Bob Carew takes a 'and in this!"

This was progressing!

"Oh, so you know Captain Carew?" prompted Martin.

The boatswain turned.  He regarded Martin strangely.  His face was set and stern.  He seemed
a man for whom the moment of badinage is past and the moment of action is come.

"You talk of Ichi, and then you talk of Wild Bob Carew!" he said to Martin.  "Swiggle me stiff,
young man, you are one o' them!"

His great hands reached toward Martin.  There was annihilation in his eye.  His attitude was
a sudden and complete declaration of war.

Martin did not await that onslaught.  He started for the door.  Fortune favored him--uncounted
potations, perhaps, had rendered the boatswain a bit unsteady on his pins, and, as he left
the support of the bar rail and lurched for his victim, he lost his balance.  He sat down on
the floor with a crash that shook the building.

The boatswain swore, Johnny Feiglebaum emitted a wail as three glasses bounced off their rack,
and Martin kept on going.  As he passed through the door, the boatswain was scrambling agilely
to his feet.  Martin was a young man in a hurry.

He sprinted for, and boarded a passing street-car, just as the boatswain reached the curb.
He paid his fare, passed inside the car, and sank thankfully into a seat.  He was aglow with
his adventure. Something to remember, that affair with the weeping boatswain!  But what was
the fellow so sudden about?

Thus did Martin consign the boatswain to the limbo of memory.  He was inside the street-car,
so he did not see the automobile, driven by a figure in a gray overcoat and cap, that drew
up at the curb beside the boatswain.  Nor did he observe that automobile's consequent strange
behavior in persistently keeping half a block behind the slowly moving street-car the whole
distance to the waterfront.

CHAPTER III

THE HAPPY HUNCHBACK

The clock on the tower of the ferry building showed fifteen minutes past nine when Martin dropped
off the car at the foot of Market Street. He paused a moment on the corner, enjoying the never-ending
bustle about the city's gateway.  He had plenty of time--Green Street and the Black Cruiser,
was but a quarter hour's leisurely walk distant, and it was then forty-five minutes till ten
o'clock.  He turned and walked slowly northward along the Embarcadero.

The wide street was swept by a keen wind, and Martin found the night even rawer than he had
anticipated.  But overcoated, he was protected, and the walk was anything but lonely and uninteresting.
To his lively mind, this night stroll along the famous East Street was a fitting complement
to his strange encounter with the red boatswain of the brig Cohasset, a fitting prelude to
the secret business he was engaged upon.

The very breath of the street was invigorating--the salt tang of the breeze, the pungent, mingled
smell of tar and cordage from the ship chandleries, the taste of the Orient from the great
warehouses, even the gross smells of the grog-shops, and it set Martin's blood a-coursing.
It conjured visions of tall ships, wide seas, far ports.

Across the way, at the wharves, great steamers were disgorging.  The rattle of their winches
filled the air.  On his side of the street, the sidewalk was thronged with stevedores, stokers,
sailors, what not. Each of the innumerable saloons he passed possessed its wassail group, and
rough ditties boomed out through swinging doors.  Great loaded trucks rumbled by.  It was a
world that worked and played both night and day.

But as Martin continued northward, the street's character changed.  The kens and cheap eating-places
gave way for the most part to the warehouses--great brick and concrete fortresses that turned
a blank dark face to the night.

Pedestrians became few, mainly straggling seamen bound for their ships. Across the way, the
steamers at the wharves were smaller, and here and there loomed the spars of a sailing vessel,
a delicate tracery upon the blue-black starlit sky.

Martin speculated upon these last.  The intricate, woofed masses of wood and cordage captured
his fancy.  He wondered if by any chance the boatswain's ship was over there.  He wondered
what the brig Cohasset was like.  He wondered what the "blessed little mate" was like.  He
visioned that surprising person who had such influence over rough boatswains--a prim little
man with mutton chop whiskers, he decided. Yes, the 'blessed little mate' of the brig Cohasset
would be a little, white-crowned, bewhiskered old gentleman, perhaps somewhat senile and decrepit.
It was inherent respect for old age that inspired the boatswain's affection.

So musing, Martin came to a by-street that divided two warehouses.  He crossed the alleys,
but lingered on the far curb.

The alley was dark, but he noticed some distance down it the outline of an automobile standing
with its lights hooded.  He had a passing wonder at the presence of an apparently deserted
machine in such a location, but it was a subconscious interest.

The next street, he knew, was Green Street.  Those lights that shone on the next corner must
mark his destination, the Black Cruiser saloon. He pulled out his watch; still five and twenty
moments before ten o'clock.

As he stood there under a dim street light consulting his timepiece, there came to his ears
out of the darkness just ahead, a voice, a rich and throaty tenor, singing softly.  The sweet
sounds pierced his preoccupation.  He looked, and some thirty or forty paces distant perceived
a gnome-like figure perched atop a fire hydrant, at the edge of the sidewalk.

The figure was little better than a grotesque shadow in the gloom, but there was no need of
light to give definite shape.  That pure, musical voice once heard was not easily forgotten.
Martin knew the missing steward of the brig Cohasset was there before him.

The voice rose and fell in a careless carol, an ancient, lilting, deep sea chantey.

  A roving, a roving,
  Since roving's been my ru-u-in,
  I'll go no more a roving,
  With Thee, Fair Maid.

Martin stood entranced.  The songster adventured on with the "Amsterdam Maid," another stanza
and chorus.  The soft bell-like tones, the salty words, the air, like all the chanteys, both
sad and reckless, caressed Martin's ears like a siren charm.  The boatswain's words, "'E sings
like a blessed angel," crossed his mind.  Rather, a blessed merman!  To Martin, greedy for
the oceans and beyond, the ditty seemed the very whisper of bright and beckoning distance--a
whisper of tropic seas, of spice-scented nights, of blue isles.  It heaped fuel on his sea-lust.
His heels itched.

The song ended and was followed by a chuckle, a care-free clucking of subdued mirth.  The singer
was evidently in a jovial mood.  A few softly spoken, laughter-tinged words reached Martin.

"The audience is requested to kindly move forward.  No extra charge for box seats.  Front row
reserved for bald heads.  Next show starts right away.  Especially staged for young gentlemen
of the law."

Martin came to himself with a start.  The words were addressed to him. He was the sole audience
in sight.  And the facetious hunchback evidently recognized him, remembered him and the fact
of his employment in a law office.  Martin was standing beneath the dim glow of a street lamp,
but Little Billy must have very sharp eyes to recognize features in that half-light.

Martin moved forward promptly.  First the weeping boatswain, now the happy hunchback.  It was
a night of odd meetings!  But Little Billy seemed not so downcast as the bosun.

"Ah, ha, my amiable acquaintance of the afternoon walks abroad!" chuckled the voice, as Martin
came to a halt beside the hydrant.  "Is it thus he cools a brow fevered of too much Trent and
Blackstone?"

"Well, it is a good night for such a cooling," was Martin's good-natured retort.

"True," admitted the other.  "And other things than the law fever the head--heavy ordnance
of cruisers of accursed blackness, the fatal rum and gum, the devious workings of the Oriental
mind, the slithering about of fat and greasy varlets.  Yes, many things fever the brow, and
'tis a good night for a cooling.  As witness!"

Martin stared at the other.  No reek of alcohol met his nostrils, as with the boatswain, but,
none the less Little Billy's cryptic jargon confirmed his suspicions.  Also drunk, he reflected.
The revered and gentle old mate of the brig Cohasset would have cause for grief when his two
prodigals came roistering home.

Martin could not make out Little Billy's features very distinctly; the hydrant was beyond the
street lamp's circle.  But the hunchback's body was plain enough--the queer body squatted upon
the hydrant, legs dangling, the ridiculous velvet hat rakishly aslant the large head. The hunchback's
eyes were bright and alive.

"I can well believe your mind is care-ridden," bandied Martin, falling in with the other's
mood.  "It must be a wearisome and thankless task to scatter universal knowledge amidst the
brainless.  Have you still got your book?  That thing you tried to sell to me?"

"Alas, I must confess I have it not," was the blithe response.  "I ditched it, sir.  It oppressed
me to bear about such a store of wisdom. The marvel of the ages, the compendium of universal
knowledge, reposes in the dust-bin.  Mayhap some aspiring dust-man, in whose mind smolders
untaught genius, will chance upon it.  It may prepare some dim soul for future brilliancy--the
arts, the crafts, the sciences, are all contained in that wonderful volume.  Who knows, out
of that black dust-bin may rise a radiant glow of light.  The janitor, the collector of garbage,
the industrious people who rake over the dumps--there are many chances of the right hands grasping
that printed jewel.

"'Tis a pleasant thought, my legal friend.  Ah, I am happy in contemplation.  I may not have
lived in vain."

Martin grinned.

"You certainly are an optimist," he said.  "But why did you cast such a wonderful gem aside?"

"Alas, the grossness of the commercial classes, the brutality of the tired business man!  We
Americans are a rude folk my friend; the courtesies are absent from our manners.  Now, I am
a young man with tender feelings, both mental and--er, physical.  And these trousers I wear
have already rendered long and faithful service; they have arrived at the stage where they
require, let us say, humoring.  The oft repeated impact of a number ten boot upon such delicate
fabric could have naught but dire results.  I discarded the book, sir, and resigned my membership
in the peripatetic brotherhood, to avert a catastrophe. Both cloth and nerves were frayed.
I am a cheerful youth, but sensitive, and I require considerate treatment to be happy.  Ah,
you are laughing!  Never mind, I like people who laugh--like great Caesar, I would have them
about me."

"Pardon me," gulped Martin.  "I was just thinking how aptly the bosun described you.  ''Ow
'e can chew the rag!' he said.  And you can."

"The bosun!" exclaimed the other.  "Did I understand you to say 'the bosun'?  Can it be you
have met my heart's chum, my dear bosun?"

"You bet I did!" replied Martin emphatically.  "And I was lucky to end the encounter with a
whole skin.  Hasty man, your dear bosun!"

"'Tis true," admitted Little Billy.  "He requires coddling, does my bosun.  Red hair always
does.  My bosun has a tender heart, and he is a creature of impulse.  Beneath that rough exterior
surges the artistic temperament.  But tell me, was the bosun, by any chance, inquiring for
one Little Billy?"

"He was," said Martin.  "Not only inquiring for Little Billy, but weeping for him, fighting
for him--and for the larcerated feelings of the dear mate of the brig Cohasset.  Of course,
I know you are Little Billy."

"Your perspicacity is remarkable," said Little Billy.  "I am discovered.  But your news is
disturbing.  Tears and temper are pregnant signs with my redheaded friend.  You did not, by
any chance, meet him in the city Bastile?"

Martin sketched for the other the scene at Johnny Feiglebaum's.

"But the bosun had the same misgivings of the police on your account," he finished.

"He stated positively you would sleep this night in jail.  He gave you a turbulent character."

"Base libel," asserted Little Billy.  "Bosun has imagination, but it functions within narrow
limits.  He is solely a son of experience.  His idea of a pleasant and well spent evening ashore,
is to introduce into the physical system an indefinite amount of variously tinted alcohol,
and then to try a brave whirl of fisticuffs with the scorned minions of the law.  To his understanding
there is no other way of spending a holiday.  Hence his solicitude for Little Billy.  Of course,
thinks he, Little Billy is off alone a-roistering.  Why else should he have given his bosun
the slip?"

"Did you give him the slip?" said Martin.  "He thinks he mislaid you--that is a point in his
distress.  Did you run away from him to become a book agent?"

"You do not understand," stated the hunchback with dignity.  "It was but a manifestation of
the wanderlust, at once the curse and the blessing of my misshapen existence.  Behold in me,
sir, the rover, the argonaut, the adventurer!"

He straightened his slouched figure upon its slippery seat and attempted to strike an oratorical
posture.  He lost his balance and lurched sidewise towards Martin.  He grasped Martin's overcoat.

Martin good-naturedly put an arm around the other to steady him. Little Billy, he guessed,
was rendered dizzy by that rum and gum he had darkly hinted at.  The hunchback teetered and
clung to Martin's overcoat.  Not for an instant did his tongue cease wagging.

"I am an explorer of strange lands, strange men, strange pursuits," he told Martin.  "Behold
in me a rollicking blade of the sea; one who has matched wits with all races, all colors, and
sometimes, alas, come off second best; one who has followed many occupations.  A sailor--yes.
A book agent--yes.  Also, sir, rich man, poor man, beggar man, thief.  A wooz, a wizard, a
king of legerdemain.  Student, actor--But why continue?"

He had regained his balance upon his precarious seat by this time, and he finished with a fine,
sweeping gesture:

"In this crippled carcass doth abide a vagabond spirit whose wanderlust has no purely geographical
basis.  I wander the wide world over, yes! Also, I wander in and out of men's lives, in and
out of men's affairs. To wander--'tis my excuse for living.  A fascinating obsession, sir!"

Martin was charmed.  Never had he encountered such a flow of words, such musical eloquence.
What a lawyer this chap would make!  But Martin was also oppressed by his consciousness of
the flight of time. He wanted to linger with his quaint companion; but the time!

He reached for his watch and noted that Little Billy's clutch had opened his overcoat.  He
struck a match and discovered it was four minutes to ten--four minutes to reach the next corner.
He could make it in two, still it was time he was moving.

"I must leave you," he said to Little Billy.  "I've an errand to that saloon on the corner.
Wait for me; I'll be back this way in a few moments, and we'll go get a bite together."

"Would that I could," said Little Billy.  "But I, too, must depart.  My ship awaits."

"Well, then, so long," said Martin.  "You know where I work, Little Billy, look me up sometime.
Be glad to see you.  I won't forget this meeting."

"Good-by.  No, you'll not forget this meeting," responded the hunchback.  He slipped down from
his perch and shook hands.  "No," he repeated, "you'll remember me all right."

Martin strode for the corner, and the Black Cruiser.  Little Billy ambled across the street
towards the dark wharves, and as he went he whistled blithely.

The street was empty.  Martin passed but one living being during the rest of his journey. 
This was a figure in a gray greatcoat and cap, who lounged against a telegraph pole across
the street from Martin's destination.  The gray figure stared steadily towards the wharves;
Martin passed it by almost without notice.

CHAPTER IV

THE BLACK CRUISER

Martin was disappointed.  The Black Cruiser--delectable name, of which he had expected much--was,
it appeared, housed in a commonplace and very ugly two-story wooden building, a building with
many dark and shuttered windows on the upper floor.

From where he stood upon the corner, Martin could see that the building was of considerable
depth, and that the saloon appeared to occupy only the front downstairs portion.  The upstairs,
with its many shuttered windows, had the aspect of a deserted rooming-house.  Just before him,
over the closed door to the saloon, was the inscription Smatt had spoken of, in plain black
letters, "Black Cruiser Saloon, Diego Spulvedo, Prop."  It was a sordid and unprepossessing
exterior; Martin felt that the Black Cruiser would prove the anti-climax to his evening's adventures.

The second-hand of his watch climbed toward the hour.  He knew old Smatt's passion for exact
punctuality; not a second before the appointed time must he enter the place.  The hand touched
the required point.  Martin felt of the paper in his pocket and opened the door.

He stepped into a low-ceilinged bare and dingy room.  The place reeked of stale drink.  A battered
bar filled one side, and before it stood five men in a row, attended upon by a heavily paunched
and aproned fellow.  Martin accosted this last, as he approached the bar.

"Mr. Spulvedo?" asked Martin.  "I wish to see Mr. Spulvedo."

The aproned man regarded him with a stare from heavy lidded and nearly closed eyes.  He had
a swarthy, greasy, fat face, this officer of the Black Cruiser, and moist, thick lips.  Martin
recalled Little Billy's reminiscence concerning the "slithering about of fat and greasy varlets."
Was this the varlet?  The name fitted.

"Spulvedo!" repeated Martin.  "Are you Mr. Spulvedo?"

"Yais," drawled the man.

Martin dropped his voice to a whisper.

"I would like to speak with you alone," he commenced.

He shot a glance out of the corners of his eyes toward the five patrons.  Smatt had said to
take care not to be overheard.  He caught his breath with surprise.  The glance revealed five
stolid, yellow-brown faces turned toward him, five pairs of black, oblique-set eyes regarding
him intently.  Five Japanese!  They were interested in him, there was the thrill.  Martin sensed
some connection between himself and the five.  That envelope in his inner pocket!

"You weesh to speak weeth me, yais?"

The drawling voice compelled his attention.

"Yes--alone," said Martin.

Spulvedo nodded.  He turned and waddled fatly around the farther end of the bar, and Martin
rejoined him at the other end of the room.

"You are the messenger we expect, yais?" purred Spulvedo.

"I wish to see Captain Carew," stated Martin.  "I was told to see you and ask for him; told
you would conduct me to him.  Is he here?"

"Yais, you see heem," answered Spulvedo.

He turned to a door in the wall behind him and unlocked it.  He opened it a crack and held
whispered parley with some one within.  Then he turned to Martin.

"Thees way--come!" he bade.

Martin brushed through the door, opened just wide enough to admit his body.  He expected the
greasy saloonkeeper to follow, but instead that worthy slammed the door upon him and turned
the lock.  Martin was left alone in pitch darkness.

He stood still, nonplused by that cavalier desertion and disturbed by the darkness.  He stretched
out both arms and touched two walls.  He was in a hallway.  Alone?  The air about him seemed
to be filled with rustlings.  He fancied he heard breathing.  He took a tentative step forward,
arm outstretched.  A cold, clammy hand grasped his wrist and drew from him a startled yelp.

"Have no afraid," soothed a soft voice.  "I make show he way to he hon'ble."

There was, it seemed, more than one fashion in spoken English at the Sign of the Black Cruiser;
this fellow did not talk like Spulvedo. Martin's eyes were becoming accustomed to the darkness,
and he made out the vague outlines of a short figure before him.  The figure moved, and the
clutch on his wrist urged him to follow.

They moved forward some twenty paces, passed through a door, and encountered a stairway leading
upstairs at right angles to the passage they had just traversed.  It was not so dark here;
a gas light burned somewhere in the hall upstairs, and a moiety of its glow found its way below.

His conductor released his wrist, and commenced to ascend the stairs. Martin, as he started
to follow, noticed there was a second door at the foot of the stairs.  He guessed it let upon
the street.

They gained the upstairs landing and paused.  Martin saw before him a long hall with at least
a dozen doors opening upon it.  A gas light burned at the farther end.  As he had suspected
from without, this place was, or had been, a cheap lodging-house.  Nothing save that light
seemed to speak of occupancy now.

Martin took his first good look at his guide.  He was, as he had noted on the stairs, a Japanese;
a chunky little man with an apologetic manner, and a muscular and bow-legged figure.  If he
had been a white man, Martin would have listed him a sailor.

The Japanese smiled.  His teeth flashed startlingly white in his dark face.

"He, hon'ble, catch it Captain down there," he stated.

He waved a hand toward the gas light at the other end of the hall. Then he opened the door
of the room nearest to hand.

"He, hon'ble, stop by here," he invited.  "I go make prepare."

Martin shrugged his shoulders.  There seemed to be many preliminaries to an audience with this
Captain Carew.  Through the door the Jap held open he saw the outlines of a bed, and a rag
of carpet.  When he stepped through the door, the musty, sour air of the room smote his nostrils
like a blow.

The Japanese closed the door, and the retreating echo of his footsteps sounded from the hall.
Martin had not expected to be thus shut in darkness, but after all it was a small matter. 
He felt his way to the bed and sat down on its edge.

After a moment he struck a match.  The flare revealed, as he expected, the meanly appointed
bedroom of a tenth rate hostelry.  The single window was shuttered.

He composed himself to patience.  This business was getting on his nerves.  This visit to the
Black Cruiser was not proving the evening's anti-climax, as he had feared, but he was not enjoying
himself.  The loose face of the Cruiser's commander, the mysterious Japanese, the disturbing
secrecy, the foul air--he would be glad when his errand was completed, and he was once again
outdoors in the clean, fresh air.

There was an alien taint in that poisonous room.  With the Japanese in mind he placed it--it
was that indefinable odor the man of the Orient leaves about his abiding place, the smell one
gets during a walk through Chinatown.  Was this Spulvedo conducting this rookery as a Japanese
lodging-house?

A strange place for a sea-captain to lodge.  This Carew--this "Wild Bob" Carew, as the boatswain
had termed him--must be a man very indifferent to his surroundings, or else mightily anxious
to remain under cover.  The captains Martin had met were particular men; one would not find
them in such a noisome hole.  This Carew must be some rough renegade.  Perhaps he was not even
white; perhaps he was a half-caste.  That would explain his choice of lodgings.  One would
think from all the secret mummery with which he surrounded himself that he was the Mikado,
himself.  He certainly was not very popular with the boatswain.

Thus far had Martin got with his musings, when his attention was attracted by noises that suddenly
disturbed the unearthly quiet of the house.  They reached him quite plainly through the thin walls.

A door slammed, below stairs.  He heard sounds of a scuffle.  The sounds drew nearer--grunts,
exclamations, footsteps.  They were coming up the stairs.  In the hall outside a door was noisily
opened.  Some one ran past his door, and sentences were, spoken in a harsh, clicking, alien tongue.

Martin sat tensely on the edge of the bed.  What was about, there in the hall?  The scuffling
had reached the head of the stairs; now it was opposite his door.  Several pairs of feet were
making that noise. Martin heard a voice exclaim chokingly, and in English----

"Let go--let go of me!"

It was a strange voice, a rich and thrilling voice, and it carried an appeal.  A man's voice?

Martin felt his way to the door.  This affair without was none of his business, but he must
see what was being done to the owner of that voice.  He must confirm or dispel that vague suspicion.

He turned the knob and pulled, and the door came a few inches.  There was an exclamation from
some one who stood in front of the door.  An arm shot through the opening, a clenched hand
impacted against the pit of his stomach, and Martin went reeling backward.  The door slammed
shut and the lock clicked.

Martin fetched up against the bed and sat down heavily, experiencing that sharp agony that
follows upon a plexus punch.  In that brief instant he had held the door ajar, however, he
had witnessed a sight that caused him to ignore the pain.  He had seen what was transpiring
in the hall.  He had seen the group of little yellow men clustered about and urging along a
single figure that slightly overtopped them; a figure clad in a gray overcoat.

At the very second Martin had looked, a gray cap had fallen from the head in the scuffle, and
a wonderful mass of dark hair had tumbled down about the gray-clad shoulders.  An excited,
protesting face had turned toward him.  It was a woman those chunky aliens were urging along
the hallway, a woman clad in a man's gray overcoat.  A white woman--a young and beautiful woman!

Martin crouched on the bed's edge and panted to recover his breath. The scuffling without grew
faint, a door slammed, and the house was again quiet.

Martin's mind was awhirl, but uppermost in the confusing chaos was that startling picture,
photographic in its clearness, of the squat outlanders surrounding the protesting figure. 
A woman--a white woman--in the hands of these yellow men!

Surely he had seen aright.  It was an ill light in the hall, but he had looked from a dense
darkness, and had seen clearly.  And had he not heard her voice?  And seen the feminine tresses
tumble about the gray-clad shoulders as the cap came off?  There was some faint stirring of
memory in connection with the thought of that gray, mannish apparel, but Martin was too excited
to notice it.  He was possessed by the event.  He had caught a glimpse of the angry, vivid
face.  Angry, that was it--not fear, but anger, in her bearing.  They had not wanted him to
observe the incident, the outrage.  They had offered him violence. They had slammed and locked
the door.  He was prisoner.

By this time, Martin, a thoroughly aroused young man, was again at the door.  He, Martin Blake,
would not submit to maltreatment and imprisonment!  He would find out what this yellow crew
was doing with that girl.

In the back of his excited mind danced grim shadows of the tales every San Franciscan knows;
stories of white slaves, of white women being seen entering Oriental dens, and being lost forever
to the world that knew them; of horrible relics of womanhood being discovered years after in
some underground cave of Chinatown.  Sickening thoughts!

Martin yanked at the door and pounded upon the panel.  His blows echoed without, but brought
no other response.  He lifted his foot and drove his boot against the door.  It shivered and
splintered.

Before he could kick a second time, there came a cry from the hall, a hurried footfall, and
the door was unlocked.  Martin jerked it open. Confronting him was the Japanese who had been
his guide, who had gone to "make prepare" Captain Carew.

"You come now," announced the little man, bowing courteously.

"What does all this mean?" demanded Martin angrily.  "Who struck me through the door?  How
dare you lock me in?  Who----"

"He Captain speak you come," said the other, smiling blandly.  He shed Martin's rain of words
as if he were some yellow oilskin.  "I make him way--hon'ble fellow my show."

"What is going on in this house?" demanded Martin.  "Who was that white woman?  What was that
gang doing with her?"

The other backed away before Martin's excited questioning.  "No understand," he said.  "No
woman--no gang.  No savvy."

"No savvy--big lie!" cried Martin, and he pounced down upon the gray cap which was lying on
the hallway floor.  He held it up for the other's inspection.  "You savvy this?" he demanded.

The Jap shook his head.  His smile was gone, and there was a hostile gleam in his eyes.

"That--no understand," he said crisply.  "You come for he Captain--you catch business he Captain!"

Martin saw he could get nothing from this fellow.  He was being told very plainly to mind his
own business.  Very well, this Captain Carew was perhaps a white man.

Without further words, Martin followed the Japanese.  They went the length of the hall and
paused before the last door, the one before which the light burned.  The guide rapped.  A deep
voice rumbled orders within, chairs scraped, a door slammed, and the door before which they
stood was opened.

CHAPTER V

WILD BOB CAREW

Martin lurched forward past the man who opened the door into a room that was brightly lighted
by gas and kerosene lamps.  It was a room bare of furniture save for a common kitchen table,
littered with charts and papers, and several kitchen chairs.

It was a large room, much larger than the one he had just quitted, the full width of the house,
and, it seemed, part of a suite, for two doors, besides the one he entered through, let upon
it, from the rear wall.  But these details only impressed themselves upon Martin's mind later,
and gradually.  At the instant of his tempestuous entrance, he was entirely engrossed with
his obsession, and he had eyes only for the dominant figure that stood behind the paper-littered
table in the center of the room.  To this man Martin addressed himself without preliminary.

"That woman--didn't you hear?" he cried.  "These Japs have a woman prisoner in this house--a
white woman!  See!  This is her cap.  I saw----"

"Are you the messenger who was to come to me tonight?" interrupted the man addressed.  He spoke
in a commanding and vibrant bass voice.

It was suddenly borne in upon Martin's consciousness that he was in the presence of a personality.
They were immobile yellow gargoyles, those two Japs who stood against the farther wall, they
did not count.  But this man who stood across the table from him--the air of the room was electric
with his presence.  A commanding and forceful personality, but a hostile personality, there
was a chill in that interruption.  But the momentum of his feelings carried Martin on.

"In the hall--shoving her along--she was struggling!  A white girl! Those yellow----"

"What is your business with me?"  The heavy voice beat down Martin's words.  It was as if he
had not spoken.  "I am Captain Carew.  You have a message for me?"

Martin checked his splutter of words.  The other's sentences were like a dash of cold water;
they cleared his mind.  There was menace in that heavy voice, in the other's attitude, in the
frosty gleam of his eyes. That veiled threat sobered Martin.  He stood still and played his
eyes upon the other in appraisal.

And he was a picture to fill the eye, this man who bore himself so disdainfully, this Captain
Wild Bob Carew.  Went glimmering the graceless, blasphemous sea-renegade of Martin's fancy.
Martin caught his breath with unforced admiration as he measured the other's form and face.

Captain Carew was big and blond, as Smatt had predicted.  He was also quite the handsomest
man Martin had ever seen.  He stood at least six feet, and was leanly and finely built.  He
was, perhaps, thirty-five years old, but the springiness of youth was still in his carriage.

Martin gained from him the impression of great physical strength.  The face was finely chiseled,
virile, aristocratic, a face to compel men's admiration, to turn women's heads.  But Martin
divined the flaw in that fine mask.  The full, curved lips were shaded by a short, blond mustache,
but that hirsute covering did not conceal the cruel quirk at the lips' corners.  The face was
ruddy, even in that light, and unlined.  The eyes, probably blue in daylight, were black and
glittering; and they bore Martin's scrutiny without a flicker.  But after a moment the cruel
lips curled scornfully.

"Well, my good fellow, have you quite finished with your inspection?" said Carew.  "I hope
you have discovered nothing about my appearance that displeases you."

The cavalier tone brought Martin to himself with a start.  He had been taken aback by the appearance
of Captain Carew, the man so different from his preconceived picture.  This was no rough bully
of the seas; Carew's bearing and dandified apparel bespoke gentility.  Martin had just observed
one of the captain's hands, a slender, white, aristocratic hand, small for the man's size.
On the back of the hand was a star, tattooed in red.

The tattooing recalled Smatt and Smatt's words; recalled to Martin his reason for being in
that room; banished for the moment his knight-errant mood.  He thrust his hand into his inside
overcoat pocket and felt of the envelope.  Smatt's formula came to his lips.

"I wish to see you on the Hakodate business," he said.

"It is time that business was settled.  Did the Chief send you?" Carew responded promptly.

"That is correct," said Martin.

He half withdrew the envelope from his pocket and then hesitated.  This Carew was a severe
and superior person.  The packet delivered, Martin foresaw instant dismissal.  And that poor
girl!  Yet, Carew was a white man.

"But, Captain Carew, you could not have understood me aright!" he appealed.  "I tell you, these
Japanese have a young white woman----"

"Enough!" barked Carew.  His tone made Martin jump.  "Young man, you were sent here to deliver
certain papers to me.  Do so."

Silently, Martin handed over the envelope.  He was baffled.  He was angry.

"Now--get out!" commanded Carew, waving him toward the hall.

Martin turned toward the exit.  Hot, edged words were on his tongue's tip, and he could not
trust himself to further urge this cold-blooded wretch.  He took a step toward the door and
then stopped short, staring into the corner of the room.  He saw a man's gray overcoat lying
on the floor in the corner.

He wheeled upon Carew again and found the latter's eyes upon him in a threatening glare.  "You--you--that
coat!" stammered Martin.

"Enough!" exclaimed Carew.  "You have finished your business with me, young man.  You will
find your guide in the hall; he will conduct you to the street.  And a word of advice, my good
fellow: If you value your skin and your employment, you will promptly forget everything and
anything you may have seen in this house!"

Martin choked upon his rage.  Within him surged a hot hatred of this insolent sailor; this
captain of yellow bravos; this abductor of girls; this man who dared not face the daylight.
He was a worm beneath the Captain's feet.  He was--well, the worm could turn.

He moved toward the door.  Yes, he would go, and quickly.

"If you value your skin and your employment!"  So that was it--a threat!  He would show this
high-handed captain that Martin Blake would risk his skin as readily as the next man; and as
for his employment--a fig for Smatt, and Dr. Ichi, and all their ilk!  They were crooks; this
Carew was a crook.  They held that girl against her will.  It was all a piece of some dirty,
crooked work.  Well, the police....

"God, what treachery is this!"

The booming sentence arrested Martin at the door.  He lifted his hand from the knob and turned
to the voice.  Carew, his face convulsed with passion, was regarding him.

"What does this mean?" cried Carew.  He shook a handful of papers at Martin.  "Come back here,
you!  Explain this beastly trick!"

Martin went back.  He noticed, as he drew close to the other, that the envelope he had given
the captain lay empty and torn on the table.

"Well, what is it?  What trick?" he demanded shortly.

"What trick!" mimicked Carew.  "Look here.  Is this what you were to deliver to me?"

He thrust the sheaf of papers beneath Martin's nose.  They were sheets of blank, white paper,
and they had been creased by folding.

"This is what that precious envelope contained," continued Carew. "Tell me, what ---- foolery
is this?  Where is that code translation? Where are my instructions?  Where are my clearance
papers?  Hey--you staring fool!"

"Stop that!" flared Martin.  "You moderate your tone when you speak to me!  If you have any
complaint to make about the contents of that envelope, make them to Josiah Smatt, and that
Dr. Ichi.  I know nothing about the contents.  The envelope was given to me sealed, and I delivered
it to you sealed."

"It has been tampered with," declared Carew.

"It has not," asserted Martin.  "I have had it in my pocket, on my person, since Smatt gave
it to me.  I delivered it to you with the contents intact.  If you found those blank sheets
within, they were placed there before I received the envelope."

Carew favored Martin with a steely and searching stare; and Martin, ablaze with resentment,
stared boldly back.  Martin's bearing, and his positive statements, evidently impressed the
captain.

"You had better take the matter up with the men who sent me here," said Martin.  "I have finished
with my part of the affair.  I wish to go."

"You are jolly well right I'll take the matter up with the men who sent you here!" exclaimed
Carew.  "And I'll take the matter up at once. Meanwhile, you will remain here.  I'll not lose
track of you until I get to the bottom of this affair."

"Do you mean you intend to detain me here?  Whether I will or no?" demanded the thoroughly
angered Martin.

"I do," stated Carew.

He barked an order in a foreign tongue.  The two gargoyles at the other end of the room sprang
to life and started swiftly toward Martin.

Martin wheeled about and darted for the door to the hallway.  He reached it, and was jerking
it open, when the two Japs flung themselves upon him.  He lifted one from his feet with a well-placed
swing.  The other flung his arms about Martin's neck and clung there.

Martin staggered into the hall, wrestling with that leech-like hug.  He tore free from the
fellow; and as he did he caught a glimpse of Captain Carew through the open door.  The man
had not moved from his station behind the table.

Then a mountain seemed to drop upon Martin's back.  He was crushed face downward upon the floor,
enveloped and smothered by a vast and sour-smelling bulk.

He struggled desperately and succeeded in partly rolling over on his back.  He flailed his
arm twice, and felt his fist strike against soft flesh.  He saw hanging over him the unwholesome
face of the saloonkeeper, Spulvedo.

Then a heavy blow smote his jaw-bone, and he went a-dancing through a world of bright, shooting
stars, into darkness.

CHAPTER VI

PRISONER

The results of a forceful tap on the human jaw are various.  One man lies inert, dead of body,
blank of mind; a second writhes about and babbles; a third retains a modicum of control over
locomotion, but the mind journeys afar into a phantasmagoric world.

Martin was the third man during this, his first, reaction to a knockout blow.  He was not completely
unconscious, but that terrific jolt seemed to divorce body and mind.  So far as further resistance
was concerned, he was helpless.  He swam about in an opaque mist.  There, afar off, on the
floor, was stretched another Martin Blake, a shadow of Martin Blake; and he saw monstrous things
surrounding this adumbration of himself, headless bodies, and bodiless heads, and detached
arms and legs.

He saw these parts of men haul the unreal Martin Blake to his feet and bundle him through the
door, back into the big, lighted room.  He saw this other self, body sagging, head hanging,
stand again before the paper-littered table and sway to and fro upon tottering legs.  He heard,
from a great distance, the deep rumble of Captain Carew's voice--but all he could see of Carew
was a foot and a section of leg. He saw a wide expanse of bare floor, and the floor was moving.

He hung suspended before a door.  Came Carew's voice--

"Not there--fools--next room."

More moving floor.  Another door.  The door receded and showed a black hole.  Again the deep
voice--

"Good place--safe--just quill-pusher--dump."

A headlong flight through darkness, falling, falling, into the bottomless pit.  A crash.  And
Martin's mind and Martin's body became one again as he struck the floor.

He was lying face downward upon a bare floor.  He sat up.  His head was ringing, and he could
feel that his cheek was swelling.  His addled wits slowly settled themselves.  He moved his
head about and took stock, as well as he could, of his new surroundings.

He retained a vague memory of his passage through the big room, and of the two doors.  So,
he knew the place he had been so unceremoniously dumped into was one of the rooms that opened
upon Carew's headquarters. The only light that entered the place crept under the door from
the room without.  He knew, without experiment, the door was locked upon him.

The room felt bare.  He struck one of his few remaining matches.  The room was bare, not a
stick of furniture in it.  The single window was closed, and he supposed it was shuttered as
well, for he could not see through it.  But he would make sure.  He clambered to his feet,
a bit dizzy yet but well able to control his movements.  He moved softly toward the window,
feeling his way.

In a second his hand touched the window-ledge.  He felt along the sash and shoved upward. 
To his surprise, the window lifted easily.  But the hand he shoved without met, as he expected
it would, a heavy wooden shutter; and his investigating fingers disclosed, moreover, a padlock,
that, by means of a staple sunk in the sill, locked the shutter fast. No hope of getting away
through the window.

The certainty that he was imprisoned in this sealed box of a room was not soothing to Martin's
temper.  He was not frightened--he was angry. The haughty Carew had aroused in him resentment;
now, he had been slugged semi-conscious and locked in this room.  His anger reached the proportions
of a rage, a hot, furious rage.

He left the window and crossed to the door.  He did not try this time to soften his footfalls--he
did not care who heard him.

He tried the door.  Locked.  He shook it, and rattled it.  No response, but his straining ears
caught the sound of light footfalls without.

He pounded upon the door, shouted threats, demands, challenges.  He was in the mood to flog
the whole vile brood of this Pension Spulvedo.

He resorted to the method that had brought him freedom once before that night--he lifted his
foot and drove his boot against the door.  And, as before, the response was immediate.

A peremptory voice was raised in the other room.

"Be quiet, you, een there!  Eef you be not quiet, I feex you!"

A well-remembered voice!  That greasy villain of a saloonkeeper was out there!  It was Spulvedo
who had smote him on the jaw.  Martin redoubled his blows on the door.

"Stop!  Santa Maria, eef you not stop, I shoot!"

Martin kicked away.  The door, of flimsy enough construction, seemed on point of giving way.
Then, there happened in such rapid sequence as to seem simultaneous, several things.

There was an ear-splitting crash, a splintering of wood, a hot streak passing so close to Martin's
head it scorched, a tinkle of broken glass from the window behind him, a smell of burnt gunpowder.

Martin stood on one leg, like a stork, his free foot suspended for the kick he did not deliver.
There was a queer sinking feeling in that inward organ that received his food.  He stared at
a little hole in the door panel, just above his head--a little bullet-hole that glowed yellow
with the light from the other room.  The man had shot through the door at him!

"Eef you not stop the keek, I shoot lower!" came the voice.

Martin sat down quickly upon the floor.  Then, on second thought, he crawled into the nearest
corner and crouched against the wall.

To be shot at, to have Death's hot breath scorch one's very hair, might very well daunt a person
of more tumultuous antecedents than Martin Blake.  To a young man whose chief occupation in
life has been the warming of an office chair, such an experience is apt to prove unnerving.
It spoke well of the stuff Martin was made of that he was not overly frightened.  But Martin
was certainly a bit shaken.

He suddenly discovered there was a vast difference between braving death in spirit in the pages
of a book, and braving death in person in a locked upstairs room of a dubious and isolated
boozing den.  It was all very well for, say, Roger De Puyster, hero of that swanking tale "Death
before Dishonor" to disregard such trifles as revolver shots and threats of death.  But as
for Martin Blake, law clerk, well, he squatted low and hugged close in his corner.  No panic
gripped him, but the instinct of self-preservation is a primal instinct.  Martin's condition
of mind, for the moment, was that bromidic state, "better imagined than described."

Chiefly, he was astonished.  He, Martin Blake, had at last encountered a real adventure!  He,
the obscure law clerk and messenger, whose existence was a drab routine, whose every act must
favor dull convention, had suddenly tumbled into the meshes of a dark intrigue, undoubtedly
unlawful, where men's violent passions were given free rein.

In the short space of a half-hour, he had witnessed an abduction, been assaulted, imprisoned,
murderously shot at!  These things had happened to him, to Mrs. Meagher's star boarder, to
Martin Blake, the despised quill-pusher!  There was in Martin's mood, as he crouched there
in the corner, that transcended his anger, his wonder, his fear, something that was close akin
to exhilaration.

It was very still.  His thumping heart seemed to him to be the only sound that reached his
straining ears.

What was going on out there in the big room?  He had not heard Carew's voice.  Was the captain
still there?  Was Spulvedo crouching without the door, pistol raised, waiting for him to "keek"?
Where were the mysterious Japanese?  What were they--Carew's men or Dr. Ichi's?

Strange thing about that envelope.  Martin had been as much surprised as Carew at the contents.
What kind of a game were Smatt and Ichi playing, sending him with injunctions of secrecy to
deliver sheets of blank paper?  Carew declared the envelope had been tampered with, but Martin
knew better.  It had not left his possession.  Had Smatt foreseen the reception that would
be accorded his messenger?  He did not doubt it.  Smatt was a cold-blooded fish; he would not
hesitate to risk his clerk's skin if a dollar profit were in sight.  Did Smatt and Ichi know
about the abduction--the imprisonment of that girl who masqueraded in the gray overcoat?

Aye, the girl--that was the important thing!  Who was she?  Where had she been taken?  If he
could only get word to the police!  He had no fears for himself, at least, not many.  When
Carew had adjusted the matter of the envelope with Smatt and Ichi, why, of course, he would
be turned loose.  But the woman--those yellow men....

Martin's ears became suddenly aware of a faint, strange sound.  It was a sound he had been
endeavoring subconsciously to place during the period of his musing; he had almost identified
it as his heart-beats. Now, alert and listening, he placed it.  It was a tapping on the other
side of the wall he leaned against, a light tap-tap-tap.  It started, stopped, started.

Somebody was tapping on the wall in the next room.  Another prisoner! It was the girl--of course,
it was the girl.

Martin was instantly sure of the tapper's identity, with a sureness born of intuition and memory.
He remembered the two doors opening from the big room, the gray overcoat lying in the corner,
Carew's words when the semi-conscious Martin Blake was held poised before the other door. "Not
there--next room."  Those were Carew's words.  Why, of course, the Japs had brought the girl
to Carew, and he had shut her in the next room.

Tap-tap-tap, tap-tap.  There it came again.  Martin rapped against the wall with his own knuckles,
paused, rapped again.  Instantly came the response from the other side, the same number of
raps.  A plain answer.

But Martin's elation was short lived.  The unseen tapper immediately commenced again, tap-tap,
tap-tap-tap-tap, tap.

Surely there was method in that irregular tapping.  A signal, a talk in code!  But he could
not read it.  Nor dare he lift his voice in shouted communication through the wall--Spulvedo,
and bullets, hung over him. One experience of being shot at while unarmed and helpless was
sufficient.  It would not help the girl for him to get himself shot.

The unevenly tapped message came again.  The best he could do was repeat the taps.  But this,
evidently, did not satisfy the sender.  The tapping on the other side ceased.  Though he rapped
till his knuckles were sore, he could not induce the other to recommence.

The gloom of the room was less dense, Martin's accustomed eyes being now able to discern all
four walls and the outline of the window. A-fever with excitement as he was, the inactivity
palled upon him, became unbearable.  He must do something.  Well, he would try the window again.

But first he crept to the door and endeavored to peer through the key-hole into the big room.
He hoped to get a view of what was happening without, of Carew, of Spulvedo.  But he was disappointed.
The key, thrust in the lock on the outer side, completely barred any outlook.  He pressed his
ear against the door, but heard nothing.

A second later he was at the window, feeling of the padlocked shutter.

He drew his penknife from his pocket.  It was a tiny, ridiculous blade, and it seemed futile
to hope it would dig that stout staple out of the sill; still, thought Martin, any sort of
attempt was better than no attempt.

He leaned over the sill and pecked away with his office tool.  Of a sudden, a draft of cold,
fresh air rushed up into his face.  At the same instant, his other hand, which was leaning
against the shutter, felt the shutter bulge slightly outward, and his ears caught a distinct,
but not loud, scraping sound.

The sound increased, the bulge increased, the draft increased.  Martin felt the staple that
held the padlock bending, felt, also, the prying edge of a small steel bar between the sill
edge and the shutter.  Some one was outside, breaking entrance.

He drew to one side, shrinking against the wall, instinctively holding his breath.  The prying
of the shutter from without steadily continued. Conjectures and hopes surged through his mind--it
was a burglar, it was the police, it was some unknown, unguessed friend.  He didn't care who
it was so long as the shutter was opened.

His heart beat a bass-drum solo against his ribs.  There were distinct, rasping creaks from
the window-sill--the staple was groaning at being hauled from its wooden bed.  There was a
sharp crack, and the shutter swung open.  Martin heard a relieved grunt, felt the cool, fresh
air enveloping him, and saw a square of black sky, lighted with a few stars.

A hand grasped the window-sill and slid along it.  Martin stared at the hand, fascinated. 
It seemed no more than a writhing shadow.

Then a head abruptly bobbed into the square of uncertain light.  It was a familiar head; even
against that dark background Martin recognized it promptly; it was an unusually large head,
surmounted by a ridiculously small hat.  A well remembered voice reached Martin's ear in a
guarded whisper:

"Miss Ruth, Miss Ruth!  Are you there, Miss Ruth?"

It was the hunchback, Little Billy.

Martin's long-held breath exploded with a sudden pop.  The hunchback stiffened at the sound
and hung motionless, half over the sill.  He peered into the dark room evidently endeavoring
to locate the noise.

"Miss Ruth?" he hissed sharply.

Martin stepped from the wall towards the window.

"It is I," he commenced.

"Stop!  Don't move, don't yell.  I have you covered!" was Little Billy's sharp injunction;
and Martin caught the gleam of steel in the other's hand, saw the muzzle of a revolver pointed
at his chest.

"No, no, don't shoot!" he exclaimed.  "It is I, Martin Blake, the law clerk.  Don't you remember--the
fellow who was talking to you by the fire hydrant?"

"The law clerk!  Good Lord!  Have they shanghaied you?"

"Yes, I'm locked in this room," said Martin.  "They are guarding the door.  That fellow, Spulvedo,
just took a shot at me because I tried to break out.  Don't speak loudly--they'll overhear."

"I'm coming in," whispered Little Billy.

He wriggled his body further over the sill, swung about and dropped to the floor by Martin's
side.  Immediately, he turned and thrust his head out of the window and spoke a few words in
an undertone to some one below.

Martin leaned over Little Billy's shoulder and peered out.  He discovered the means by which
the hunchback had reached that second story window--about nine feet below was the roof of a
shed that abutted against the side of the building, and on the farther side of the shed was
a dark space that looked like an alley, a freight entrance probably to the great brick warehouse
that reared its blank, windowless side just opposite.  He saw that his previous surmise had
been correct--this room he had been confined in was a rear room, the shed below was doubtless
an outhouse of the saloon, the street yonder was Green Street.

Martin grasped these details at a glance.  What really interested him at the moment was a man's
figure just below him on the roof of the shed.  The upturned face was but a few feet distant;
the man bulked huge in the shadow.  It was the boatswain.  Martin divined the method of the
hunchback's assault upon the shutters--he had evidently stood upon the giant's shoulders.

"Stand by, Bos," called Little Billy softly.  "I'm inside, all right."

"Aye, aye," came the answering rumble.  "'Ave you found 'er, lad? 'Oo's that lookin' over your
shoulder?"

"It is that clerk," said Little Billy.  "'Wild Bob' locked him up.  No, she isn't----"

He straightened up and clutched Martin's arm.

"You in here alone?" he demanded.  "I am looking----"

"I know--a girl," interrupted Martin excitedly.  "I think she is in the next room.  A white
girl.  The japs caught her and turned her over to Carew.  Had on a man's gray overcoat, and----"

"Did you see her?  Is she safe?"

"Think so.  They haven't had time to harm her.  I think she is in the next room.  Some one
was rapping on the wall."

"Code talk!" supplemented the hunchback.  "That is Ruth.  She thinks I was caught, too.  She
has been trying to communicate with me.  Must have heard them put you in here.  Which wall?"

He darted to the side of the room Martin indicated, moving lightly and soundlessly.  He started
a light tapping on the wall, the same irregular tapping that had puzzled Martin a few moments
before.  Hardly had he begun when faint replies came from the next room.

Martin tiptoed to the door and pressed his ear against it.  Events were crowding him swiftly.
He had no time or data for cool reasoning.  The boatswain, the hunchback, the imprisoned woman,
Carew, the envelope, Ichi and Smatt--it was all a mysterious jumble that he had no time to
bother with.  His impulse controlled him, and his impulse enlisted him upon the girl's side
against Carew.  Little Billy and the boatswain he accepted without question as friends.  Had
they not opened the window, and the way to freedom?  So he listened at the door while the hunchback
exchanged signals, alert for alarming sounds from the big room.  But he heard nothing.

For several moments the strange conversation continued through the wall.  Twice, Martin heard
the hunchback mutter an oath.  Then, after a final series of raps, the little man left the
wall and crept to Martin's side.

"Yes, she is in there," he announced.  "We will have to work swiftly. What do you know of this
house--how constructed?"

Martin described in whispers the plan of the building as he knew it--the hall and stairs, the
large room, the two smaller rooms opening off it.  He also told Little Billy of his own rough
experience, though he did not mention the envelope.

"Spulvedo is on guard on the other side of this door," he concluded. "He is armed, and he won't
hesitate to shoot."

"I know he would shoot," said Little Billy grimly.  "So will I shoot, if necessary.  You have
been thrust into a desperate business, my friend.  Oh, I understand your position, even better
than you, yourself.  I know why you were seized and locked in here.  I warn you truly, you
are in some danger.  Carew, or any of his crowd, would snuff you out in an instant if he thought
fit.  I am not going to ask you to risk your skin in an affair that does not concern you. 
There is the window--the bosun will let you pass."

"I'll stay and help you, if you'll have me," promptly replied Martin. "I am not afraid to take
a chance.  And that girl--those yellow----"

"I knew you would stick!" interrupted the hunchback.  His hand grasped Martin's in a congratulatory
grip.  "I knew I had not misjudged you--you are a white man.  We must get her away, and we
dare not call the police into this affair.  But there is nothing crooked on our side of the
fence.  Here, take this--you may need it!"

Little Billy thrust something into Martin's hand, and Martin thrilled at the feel of it.  It
was a pistol, a compact, automatic messenger of death.  But once or twice before had Martin
ever handled such a weapon, and he had never shot one at a living mark.  Nevertheless, it fitted
snugly and naturally into his palm.  He even contemplated, with a certain amount of pleasure,
its instant use upon the divekeeper's gross person.  There was a subtle and lasting change
of character in that brief moment--Martin Blake, law clerk, became of the dead past, and Martin
Blake, adventurer, stepped into the law clerk's boots.

"It is too risky to make a rush through this door," Little Billy was saying.  "They would hear
us and be on guard.  We will try the next window."

He darted to the window, and Martin followed.  The purposeful hunchback was a stimulating surprise,
a far cry from the eloquent Little Billy of the fire hydrant to the energetic Little Billy
of the moment!  The man of words become the man of action.

Little Billy leaned out of the window, and whispered.

"Aye, aye," Martin heard the hoarse whisper in reply.

"Stand by, we are coming out--both of us," admonished Little Billy.

He vaulted over the sill, clung a moment, and dropped.  Martin saw the boatswain catch the
little man in midair and lower him gently to his feet.

"Come on," the hunchback then called softly.

Martin divested himself of his overcoat.  The cause, he thought, was worth the sacrifice, and
the garment was cumbersome.  Then he clambered over the sill and lowered himself.

He was preparing to drop, when a resistless clutch fastened upon his hips.  He was handed through
the air as if he were a feather, and set gently upon his feet at Little Billy's side.  The
boatswain's gruff whisper was in his ear--

"Swiggle me, ladibuck, I 'ad no thought to run afoul of you again."

"Come on--next window," commanded Little Billy.

He shrank against the side of the building and began to edge himself along.  Martin and the
boatswain followed.  Martin looked up.  The window they had just climbed through was a mere
black blot, the window that was their objective was a mere outline overhead and a few feet
to one side.  No betraying light hazarded them, there on the shed.  The warehouse behind them,
and the building against which they crouched, combined to drape them in black shadow.  Unless
they made a noise, Martin divined there was not much chance of their being discovered.

Little Billy paused beneath the other window, and Martin and the boatswain pressed close to
his side.

"Now, bosun, lend me your shoulders," said Little Billy.  "If this shutter is fastened the
same way the other one was, we won't have much trouble.  Hand me the bar."

The boatswain produced a short steel bar from some place about his person and handed it to
the hunchback.  Then he braced his back against the building, directly below the desired window,
and picking up Little Billy, hoisted the little fellow to his own broad shoulders.  The hunchback
perched there a moment and delivered instructions to Martin.

"You stand lookout," he instructed.  "Watch the street.  Listen for footsteps."

Martin obediently crept to the edge of the shed's roof that overlooked the street and posted
himself there as watchman.  The alley was on his left hand, but it was so dark there he could
not see the ground.  The street, just before him, was not so impervious to peering eyes.

The cobblestones and the sidewalk pavement gleamed dully.  By stretching his neck, he could
see the corner where the street lamp spluttered before the saloon entrance, and beyond the
corner, the wide vista of the Embarcadero and a section of dark wharf.  But he saw nothing
threatening in the scene.  Nothing moved--the street was empty of life.  The only sounds were
the hooting of steamboat whistles on the bay and the light rattle of Little Billy's bar against
the shutter.

Then, abruptly, came from around the corner, in front of the saloon, the muffled throb of an
automobile engine.  It sank to a purr, and stopped.  Martin stiffened tensely and gripped the
revolver in his hand.  Behind him, he heard the boatswain mutter:

"'Ear that, Billy?  Swiggle me, 'e's back--'urry!"

The scraping sound of the steel bar upon the shutter increased in volume.  Martin heard a mumble
of voices, and a stamping of feet on the pavement.  Then a door closed and the sounds ceased.
Martin knew that several men had entered the saloon.  The danger seemed to have passed them by.

He heard Little Billy give vent to a satisfied grunt.  He looked up, over his shoulder, and
saw that the jimmy had completed its task.  The shutter was open, Little Billy was clambering
down from the boatswain's shoulders, an indistinct figure was half over the sill, clambering
out of the newly opened window.  And in the same glance, he saw a beam of yellow light illumine
the other window, the window of the room in which he had been prisoner.  His ears were assailed
with a sudden outcry coming through that window----

"He ees gone!"

It happened in the twinkling of an eye.  Martin wheeled about at the sight and sound.  He had
no time for reflection, but he knew instantly that his escape had been discovered, that the
light above came from the big room where he had bearded Carew, that they had opened the door
and found him gone.

Feet trampled in the room.  A man's figure was framed in the lighted window--a bloated bulk
that he knew was Spulvedo.  A flame shot from that figure into his very face.  The missile
struck the roof close to his side and splattered shingle and dirt in his face.  Without hesitation,
he straightened his own arm and fired point blank at the living mark.  Spulvedo emitted a stifled
shriek and fell from sight.

The window was empty again.  Not until long afterward did Martin recall that his conscious
mind never received the sound of those two shots.

A dark figure brushed past him and dropped over the edge of the roof to the street.  The boatswain
followed.  Little Billy was by his side, grasping his shoulder.

"Come on--roll off!" the hunchback was urging.

The second window overhead was suddenly alight, and a booming voice was cursing in the room.
Martin rolled off the edge and fell into the boatswain's arms.

Then he was on his feet, running, by the boatswain's side.  Just in front of him raced the
hunchback, and a queer figure in man's clothes, whose long hair streamed behind.  He heard
men shouting.

They passed the corner and started across the Embarcadero toward the wharves.  Far down the
street a police whistle was blowing shrilly. Behind them, the Black Cruiser was spewing forth
its brood.

The street was wide.  They were not nearly across when these sounds of pursuit reached Martin's
ears.  He heard the pounding of feet behind him, and the sound of shots.  He heard the hunchback
fling over his shoulder:

"Hold them back, bos!  We'll get the boat free!"

The boatswain stopped short and wheeled about.  Martin's momentum carried him several steps
farther, then he too checked his stride. Intuitively, he knew his place was at the boatswain's
side.

The boatswain was on one knee, shooting rapidly at a cluster of retreating figures.  The Black
Cruiser was still emptying itself. Everywhere before the saloon, it seemed to Martin, were
darting forms.

From behind telegraph poles, from kneeling figures, came the spurting flames of revolver shots.
The reports were a sharp rattle.  Martin dropped to his knee and raised his arm.  The gun in
his hand leaped like a live thing as he pulled the trigger.  He was given entirely over to
the battle lust of the moment.  He was cool, he was happy, he laughed aloud, and he shot rapidly,
with intent to kill, at the enemy figures yonder.

The police whistles sounded insistently, more shrilly.  Martin sensed there was a commotion
a block or so down the street--approaching police, he knew.

The boatswain was on his feet and backing toward the dock.  His voice warned Martin----

"Avast there, nipper!"

Martin found his feet also and commenced to retreat.  One of the enemy figures was coming straight
for them, ignoring the shots.  There was something distinctive, contemptuous, about that charge.
Martin knew the approaching figure was Carew.  He took aim, crooked his finger, and found his
weapon empty.  He drew back his arm and hurled the gun straight at the other, and at the same
instant the charging man shot. And darkness enveloped Martin as he fell.

CHAPTER VII

THE MATE OF THE BRIG Cohasset

Martin returned to consciousness gradually, and via the nightmare route.  He was being put
to torture.  He was bound, helpless, and a steel band encircled his head, and sharp spikes
were probing his brain.

He was surrounded by gibbering and leering slant-eyed yellow faces; they screamed at him without
letup, and his ears rang with their fiendish outcry.  But mingled with, and woven into, that
barbarous howl was a softer and friendlier note, at which his groping wits clutched eagerly;
it was a clear, musical chant, and somehow, it soothed his hurts, and gave him courage to face
his torturers.  The yellow faces grimaced horridly at him.  He was being roughly rolled about.
So, he opened his eyes.

He was staring upward at the bare, wooden bottom-side of a bunk.  It was a long moment before
he could identify that blank expanse.  Then he discovered that he was lying in a bunk, and
there was something the matter with his couch, it bounced about, and his feet were, as often
as not, higher than his head.

He was in a room.  Just before his eyes was a little round window in the wall, and through
it filtered a feeble daylight when his feet were ascendant, and when his head was uppermost
he glimpsed racing, green water on the other side of the thick glass circle.  It was strangely
unaccountable.

His eyes roved.  The mists were clearing somewhat from his mind.  He was in a room, yes, the
queerest little cubby-hole he had ever seen. There was a lamp in a rack against the wall, and
the lamp remained stationary and upright while the wall behind it reeled drunkenly.

Clothes dangled from pegs as if inhabited by dancing ghosts. Somewhere, crockery rattled. 
There was an alarming creaking, as if great timbers were grinding together.  And there was,
over all, a shrill, menacing, unceasing howl--the same dread sounds that had made part of his
dream.

Also persisted the singing voice that had drawn him safely out of his marish visions.  His
eyes, continuing their sweep, passed by a tiny desk, a rack of books, a swinging wash-basin,
and encountered the source of that musical chant.  The hunchback, Little Billy, was seated
crosslegged upon the floor, sewing on some piece of wearing apparel, and, as he deftly plied
the needle, he crooned his ditty in the pure tenor that had before charmed Martin.

  "A-roving, a-roving,
  Since roving's been my ru-u-in----"

So far he got, when he looked up and saw Martin's eyes fixed upon him. He promptly threw his
work aside, leaped to his feet and bent over the bunk.  His impish, friendly face was wreathed
in a cordial smile.

"Why, hello, old scout!  Had your sleep out?  How do you feel?" was his cheerful greeting.

Martin had been fully occupied in receiving impressions during the few moments he had been
awake, and until Little Billy spoke, he had not considered himself.  But at the other's words,
he suddenly discovered that something was the matter with his body.  He was sick.  His head
hurt, and something terrible was happening to his inner man--he was ascending to great heights
only to drop swiftly to great depths.  It was his stomach, his stomach was performing a rapid
and continuous journey between his throat and the soles of his feet.  He ached all over.  He
felt it was the end; it was approaching dissolution.

"My inside--my stomach.  I'm dying!" he managed to gasp.

Little Billy's elfish grin grew wider.  The wretch even chuckled as he contemplated Martin's
misery.

"Oh, that is nothing," Martin heard him say.  "Just a little bout with our old friend Mister
Mal de Mer.  You'll be all right once you get on your feet and get some warm food inside of
you.  How is the head?"

The mention of food was nauseous, but the remark anent the head acquainted him with a new ill.
He touched the place where his hair should have been, and instead of hair his hand caressed
a bandage.  He discovered that beneath the bandage was the seat of the throbbing pain that
bothered him.  Also, memory began to stir in the chaos of his mind--head bandaged, street fight,
Black Cruiser, shots.

"What--what," he stuttered.

"You were shot," little Billy replied to that interrogatory stare. "The bosun picked you up
and carried you to the boat, and we brought you aboard with us.  You were creased.  The narrowest
squeak I ever saw.  The bullet just plowed over your skull.  We thought at first you were gone--fractured
skull, you know--but you came out of your trance and fell asleep.  You have been lying in that
bunk for about fifteen hours.  It is midafternoon now, and we have been to sea since midnight."

"T-to sea!" gasped Martin.

The hunchback's matter-of-fact announcement fairly took his breath. The latter's chuckle became
more pronounced at Martin's blank amazement.

"Yes, my legal friend, you have invaded the troublous domains of old King Nep.," he continued
genially.  "As the bosun remarked this morning, when a few playful tons of H2O rolled him along
the main deck, ''Ere we are, swiggle me stiff, safe and sound at sea again!'"  Little Billy
struck an oratorical pose, and declaimed musically:

  "O, we're running free with a gale abaft,
  And we're bound for the End o' the World!"

"But--why did you bring--" mumbled Martin.

"We had to fetch you along," interrupted Little Billy.  "If the bosun had left you behind,
those yellow devils would have finished you, or else the police would have nabbed you.  The
police were at our heels when we made the getaway from the wharf, as it was.  By Jove!  It
was for your own benefit we shanghaied you--you realize, don't you, that a street fight with
guns in a civilized town like Frisco, with wounded, perhaps dead, men lying around, makes a
rather serious business?  But don't you worry any about the future.  Everything is rosy.  We
are safe at sea, and booming along with a gale at our backs.  The law may have gobbled up Wild
Bob Carew and his crew--hope it did, but suspect my haughty captain squirmed out of it as he
usually does.  We have made our getaway, anyhow."

At sea!  Disturbing visions were dancing through Martin's mind.  At sea!

It was one thing to stand in an office window, idly watching passing ships, and longing to
be at sea.  It was quite another thing to awaken without foreknowledge, in a stuffy and careening
berth, on a strange ship that was plowing through a storm, possessed of a wounded head and
a gadabout stomach, and be informed casually by a grinning gnome that he was fleeing the law--that
he had been kidnaped so he would avoid the consequences of a wild and deadly street brawl.

A man accustomed to rough buffets and fickle fortune might well blink his eyes over such a
situation.  To Martin, the clerk, to whose law-abiding existence both fights and police had
hitherto been strangers, the information was more than a shock.  It was an earthquake.  His
world was tumbling about his ears.

The jolt galvanized him to action.  He sat up in his bunk and swung his legs over the side.
For a second he had some wild idea of rushing forth, and somehow stepping ashore, and back
into yesterday.  Then he steadied himself.

"But what will I do?" he demanded of the hunchback.  "Where are you going?  I am not a sailor,
I am a clerk--and my job----"

"My friend," said Little Billy, "I think you may definitely assume that your connection with
the legal profession is severed.  Your job is close on two hundred miles astern.  But as I
told you a moment since, you need not worry about your future.  Why, you have already been
adopted into the happy family--you are already one of the jolly company of the brig Cohasset,
with equal rights, and an equal share.  And if we have decent luck with this job ahead of us,
you will have no cause to grieve at being yanked out of your berth ashore.  It isn't so bad,
is it?  We know you leave no family behind--oh, yes, we know quite a lot about you, Martin
Blake, we had to look you up--and I think you will be blessing us in a day or two for prying
you out of your rut. You are the right sort.  You were never cut out for a clerk!  By Jove!
You should hear the bosun tell how you bowled over Carew, himself, with your empty gun!  You
are a nervy one, all right.  I'll wager this business ahead of us will be more to your liking
than the one you leave behind."

"What is it?" asked Martin.  "Where are you going?"

"Not my story--I can't tell you, now," answered Little Billy.  "You'll find out tonight, after
supper.  There will be a pow-wow in the cabin, and the Old Man and Miss Ruth will enlighten
you then."

"Miss Ruth!" echoed Martin, thinking for the first time of the girl who had innocently got
him into this mess.  "That is the girl!  Then we got the girl safely?"

"Oh, yes, she is aboard, and safe enough.  She dressed your head--neat job of bandaging she
does.  Well, Blake, I'll have to be about my duties.  I'm steward, you know.  This is my room.
You are to bunk with me.  I would advise you to get up on deck if you can manage it.  There
is no cure for seasickness like being on your feet in fresh air.  Don't worry about your head--it
is only a flesh wound, and it will heal in a couple of days.  And after supper you'll hear
all about it.  So long."

The door closed behind the sprightly little figure, and Martin was left alone.

Alone, but with thoughts enough for company.  He sat there with his legs swinging over the
side of the bunk, nursing his sore head and trying to digest the information Little Billy had
imparted.

He was troubled, yet somehow not depressed.  His coward fears of a few moments ago were gone,
and he could face the situation now with considerable aplomb.  Of course, it was disturbing
to learn that he was probably a fugitive from justice; and with his knowledge of the law he
could very well appreciate the probably serious consequences of last night's affair.  Why,
there were likely dead men in the city morgue as a result, and old Smatt, judging himself betrayed
by his clerk, might swear him a murderer.  He was a vindictive old man, Martin knew.  And Spulvedo--he
knew he had shot Spulvedo; he had seen the man drop.

Martin felt a qualm at that remembrance--shooting a man was a new and terrible experience,
and his conscience had scruples concerning the sanctity of human life.  If Martin Blake could
then have seen a few months into the future....

Yet he had no regrets for the part he had played.  He had been headstrong, he knew, in so unreservedly
joining forces with the strange people of this strange ship.  But what else could he have done
and retained his self-respect?  A man, by George, owed it to himself to be willing to fight
for a woman in distress--especially such a good-looking girl as this mysterious Miss Ruth.
Little Billy, and these people, seemed to be at outs with the police, but he knew he was on
the right side.

And so he was one of the jolly company of the brig Cohasset!  This craft seemed to have been
fated to enter his life.  He recalled how interested he had been when the boatswain first mentioned
the name, last night, in Johnny Feiglebaum's.  Last night!  Why, it seemed a year ago!  "Happy
ship," the boatswain had called her, and Little Billy had referred to the "happy family." 
A queer outfit he had fallen in with. Well, at least he would see that "blessed, bleedin' little
mate" the boatswain was so exercised about.

Brig Cohasset!  What kind of a ship was a brig, anyway?  He would see.

Arrived at this conclusion, Martin felt better.  He rolled clear of the bunk and balanced himself
on the swaying floor.  He was going to take the hunchback's advice and look over this new home
of his, and take the tonic prescribed for his peripatetic stomach.  Already, he felt much better.
He even contemplated food without disgust.

He had been undressed, and he discovered his clothes hanging on the wall.  While he donned
them, his spirits continued to mount.  He was done with fright and worry.

Things were not so bad.  It was true there was no one ashore to grieve at his disappearance,
save good Mrs. Meagher.  But how in the world did the hunchback discover that fact?  Come what
might, he was done with his old drab life, done with musty legal forms, done with the job he
so loathed.  There was a jubilant tinge to his thoughts.  Why, he was just where he had so
often longed to be--"Out There where Things happened!"

That all-pervading screaming that rang in his ears--why, that was the wind whistling through
the rigging, overhead, the storm king's brazen voice that he had so often dreamed of hearing.
And that disconcerting lurching beneath his feet--why, that was the heaving deck he had so
lusted to press foot upon.

What matter if it did play havoc with his midriff.  That would pass; already he was feeling
fit.  Now he would go out and get acquainted with his shipmates--ah, shipmates!  He smacked
his lips over the word. Already he knew the hunchback and the boatswain--fine fellows.  And
the girl--he had seen her once and would never forget her face.  That shining mass of hair....

And Martin laved himself in the basin, spruced himself before the little glass, and let himself
out of the room.

Martin stepped into the ship's cabin.  He knew it was the cabin, because he had often read
passages descriptive of just such a room.

There were several doors on either side.  They led to the berths. There was the curve of the
ship's stern in the after wall, portholes, and a divan which followed the half-round.  Chairs,
a large table, swinging lamps, a skylight overhead.  There was the companion ladder, leading
to the deck above.

He made for the ladder.  At its base he stopped.  Some one was descending.  A hale, white-bearded,
rosy-cheeked old man came down from the deck.  He had a serene and smiling countenance.

Martin waited expectantly, with half-extended hand.  This must be the "Old Man" of the hunchback's
reference.  But the old man's wide-open eyes stared over his head, or through him.  He walked
past within a foot of Martin and gave not the least indication that he noticed Martin's presence.
A second later he disappeared through a door on the farther side of the room.

Martin's hand dropped to his side.  He was nonplused and somewhat piqued.  It was unbelievable
that he had been unseen.  Why, the man had passed within touching distance and had looked straight
at him!  If this were the captain of the jolly brig...

However, just now he was eager to reach outdoors.  He mounted the ladder and found himself
in a box-like hatch.  He thrust aside a canvas flap and stepped out on deck.

A blast of cold wind slapped his face and almost took his breath for a moment.  He was facing
aft, looking out over the stern of the ship, and his eyes beheld a tumbling chaos, a fearsome
waste of leaping waters.

In the foreground of this picture, just across the skylight from him, stood the man at the
wheel.  He was an integrant feature of that wild scene, felt Martin.  In Heaven's name, what
manner of outlander was he? Squat and bulky in oilskins, broad-faced, high-cheeked, brown-colored,
his forehead was tattooed, and ridges of horrible scars disfigured both plump cheeks.  His
eyes were small, feral; he gave Martin a fleeting, incurious glance, and turned his attention
to his work.  He stood impassive, clutching the wheel-spokes.

The deck was wet and slippery.  The ship lunged down the slope of a sea, and Martin slid to
leeward.  He fought his way up-deck again and grasped the side of the hatch for support.  The
mishap had turned him about.  He now faced forward, and the wheelman was forgotten.

He was on the poop, and he overlooked the length of the ship.  The brig Cohasset was before
his eyes, as much of her as was above water. But, as a matter of fact, and as he was later
informed, he did not look upon a brig at all; the Cohasset was a brig only by virtue of sailors'
loose habits of speech.  She was in truth "a rig what ye rarely see, lad, a proper brigantine,
a craft what I'll be swiggled stiff if ye can mate 'er anyw'ere for sailing and comfort."

But nice distinctions of rig did not bother Martin on this, his first, view of his new home.
He was looking through his landsman eyes.

He saw, over the break of the poop, a sweep of deck that careened till the lee rail dipped,
and green seas lolloped aboard and swirled, foam-flecked, aft.  He saw the long jib-boom, now
stabbing the leaden sky, now plunging into the depths.  He saw the pyramid of bellying canvas
on the foremast, the great foresail, the topsails, and the bare spars above.

He saw the great boom above his head, and the vast expanse of the mainsail, a tremendous canvas,
even though reefed.  He saw the straining, board-like staysails.  He heard the harsh scream
of the wind aloft, the vibrant thrumming of tautened stays, the banging of a block, the crash
of boarding seas.  Grim sounds, and an outlook to daunt a young man whose maritime experience
consisted of an occasional ferry-boat trip.

Martin was aghast.  The ship was a chip in a maelstrom, lost, tossed about, sport of those
monster waves.  The ticklish game of "carrying on" was beyond Martin's present ken.  He was
thinking in the terms of his favorite literature.  He was awe-struck by the fury of the elements,
by the limitless expanse of upheaving waters, by the long, white-crested seas racing down the
wind.  He was beholding the raging main!

"Hello, Mr. Blake!  Glad to see you about.  Nice little puff we have had for a starting boost--about
blown out, I'm afraid."

The words, rich, throaty, tinged with amusement, came down the wind to Martin's ears.  Martin
turned his head.  Opposite him on the sloping weather deck, regarding him with a smile, stood
the girl--"Miss Ruth."

Martin stared.  Had he heard aright, "little puff"?  This battle of wind and wave a little
puff!  And she who regarded this cataclysmic scene with such contempt--that brave and confident
figure, swaying so easily to the deck's reel, that bizarre costume, that sparkling face--was
she the distressed maid he had fought for the night before? Yes, he remembered that vivid,
expressive face.  By George, she was a beauty!

She was, without doubt, an uncommonly pretty girl, and the strange costume she wore accentuated,
rather than hid, her charms.  A serge skirt came but little below her knees, and beneath it
Martin saw feet and ankles encased in stout, trim, absurdly small sea boots.

She wore a sailor's pea-coat, open at the front and disclosing a guernsey covering a swelling
bosom.  The great mass of dark hair Martin remembered so well was knotted and piled atop her
head, and a blue, peaked cap perched saucily aslant the mass.

Her face was alive, vivacious.  The eyes were large, dark, bright, the lips were ripe and smiling,
the cheeks weather-bronzed but not swarthy.

Martin drank in the details of her appearance greedily, and they left him tongue-tied.  Yes,
by George, she was a beauty!  Her carriage was regal, and there was about her an air of competence,
of authority.  She was not disturbed by her surroundings--she laughed.  What had she called
the storm?  A puff!  She seemed, by George, like a sprite of the storm!  Like the steersman
yonder, she seemed to belong to this setting of laboring ship and tumultuous sea.  Here she
came toward him with hand outstretched.

She walked easily, body inclining gracefully to the ship's whims, disdaining aid of skylight
or hatch.  Martin clung to the hatch with one hand and extended his other.

He thrilled to the warm clasp she gave him.  He glowed at the friendly light in her eyes. 
She was tall, taller than she looked at a distance, almost as tall as he.  She did not seem
to raise her voice, yet her words reached him distinctly above the howl of the wind.  He had
to shout his answers.

"How does your head feel?" were her first words.

He answered reassuringly, and remembered of a sudden that it was those brown, shapely fingers
that wrapped the bandage.

"I am Ruth Le Moyne," she continued.  "I would like to thank you for what you did last night.
You were splendid!  Little Billy has told us how promptly you volunteered your aid, when you
knew it meant danger to yourself.  It was brave of--oh, words are so tame!  But you can guess
what it meant to me--I, a girl, and Carew----"

Yes, Martin knew.  He hastened to shout that he knew.  The girl's attitude made him uncomfortable.
He shouted that he knew all about it, and that it was nothing, really nothing.  He would like
to do it again; he was really glad to be at sea on such a jolly little ship; the bump on his
head was nothing; no, his seasickness was past; what he had done was nothing, by George, not
worth mentioning!

So he said, while he held Ruth Le Moyne's hand and looked into her eyes--dark brown eyes, he
noticed, not bright now, but misty with gratitude---and he meant what he said.

"Of course, you feel strange and lost," she said.  "But you will get quickly used to ship life,
and I know you will like it.  You know, we call ourselves the 'happy family.'  You are one
of us, now.  You share in the venture, and if we are successful--but you will hear all about
it after awhile."

She broke off abruptly, looked aloft, then turned to the helmsman.

"Watch your eye, Oomak!" she called.

The savage-appearing steersman inclined his head submissively and pulled upon the wheel spokes.
Martin stared, surprised.  What had this entrancing bundle of femininity to do with the steering
of the ship?

She turned to him again.

"We are losing the breeze," she said regretfully.  "I suppose, though, we shouldn't complain.
We have gained a good offing."

Losing the breeze!

"Do you mean--is the storm passing?" asked Martin.

"The storm?"  She stared, then smiled.  "Oh, yes--see!"

Martin looked up.  Rifts of blue sky showed in the leaden blanket overhead.  But the sea seemed
as wild, his ear sensed no decrease in the wind's howl.  This girl seemed very sure.

"I'll set the t'gal'n's'l and shake a reef out of the mains'l at eight bells," she continued.
"Just a few moments of the time, now.  You know, we are cracking on."

"Oh--of course," said Martin blankly.  He didn't know just what she was talking about, but
the salty words rolled off her tongue very glibly. "W-what are you on the ship, Miss----"

"Oh, I forgot that you didn't know," laughed the girl.  "Why, I am the mate."

The mate!  This radiant, laughing creature the mate!  This slip of a girl!  Oh, ho, no wonder
the boatswain wept and spoke of posies, and the hunch-back waxed poetical in description. 
This girl...

Martin suddenly gulped.  He remembered the prim, mutton-chopped little man of his imaginings,
the gentle, senile little mate of the brig Cohasset.  He winced and blushed at the recollection
of his idle thoughts.  But a woman for mate!  Why--and he stared about him--this girl must
be in practical command of the ship.  His life, the lives of those oilskin-clad figures he
saw lounging forward, all the lives on the ship, were in her hand, dependent upon her skill.
Mate!  He had never heard----

"You seem rather surprised," she rallied him.  "I see disapproval in your face.  But I assure
you, I am a very good mate.  I even have a master's ticket."

Martin stuttered in his confusion and tangled himself in a web of denial.  Then came a blessed
interruption.  Up through the companion hatch, to which he still clung, arose a white head,
and then the man. It was the serene-faced old man who had passed him by in the cabin.

"The captain!" announced the beskirted mate.  "Captain, here is Mr. Blake--Mr. Blake, meet
Captain Dabney."

The old man stepped out on deck and turned his head about uncertainly. His hand wandered an
instant, and then met Martin's.  His face wreathed in a cordial smile.

"Glad to meet you, lad," he said.

Martin found himself without words.  He was fascinated by the captain's eyes, those serene,
blue eyes that stared at him without seeing him. Captain Dabney was blind.

CHAPTER VIII

AROUND THE CABIN TABLE

Martin lounged upon the divan, on edge with impatience, his attention divided between the faces
of his companions and the face of the clock hanging on the forward bulkhead.  The two big lamps,
upright in their gimbals, shed a warm, bright glow about the cabin.

The supper remains had disappeared.  Little Billy was completing his steward's task by spreading
over the table the damask cloth that graced the board between meals.  The blind captain sat
in a chair, quietly puffing a pipe.  The clock showed a quarter of eight.  At eight o'clock,
eight bells would strike overhead, the bosun would relieve the mate, the mate would come below,
and then his burning curiosity was promised satisfaction.

The mate!  Martin's thoughts buzzed around the girl like a moth around a candle-flame.  Not
yet could he reconcile Ruth with her duties as ship's first officer.  It seemed so absurd.
She and the giant bosun divided the watches between them.  What an ill-assorted brace!  And
she was the superior.  She was the right arm, and the eyes of the old blind man.  Oh, she was
a proper sailor, right enough!

Yes, she had set the t'gal'n's'l and shaken the reef out of the mains'l.  He knew now what
she had meant.

What a superb figure she was, standing there on the windswept deck, singing her orders.  Yes,
singing--that full, contralto halloo of hers was naught but a song.  And how the wild men of
the crew had leaped to obey!  Wild men--he had seen but few white faces forward--wild islanders
of some sort.

He would never forget his first dogwatch, spent by the boatswain's side, pacing the poop deck.
How niftily he had gained his sea legs! He had easily learned the trick of throwing his body
to meet the ship. He had learned lots, besides, from the deep voice rumbling in his ear.

"A smart little 'ooker lad, and a smart crew, all married to 'er. Swiggle me!  Ain't many 'er
size can show 'er a pair o' 'eels.  Ay, small, but big enough for 'er work--'undred thirty
ton.  Great trader, the Old Man is.  'Square Jim' Dabney, 'e's called, from the Arctic to 'Obart
Town, and across Asia side; except them Rooshuns--they call 'im the 'Slippery Devil.'  Says
I, fine 'auls we've 'ad, seal and fur, from them Rooshuns.

"Blast o' dynamite, lad, took the Old Man's sight.  Fine 'aul this time if we 'ave luck.  Swiggle
me stiff, it'll set us up ashore for bleeding toffs! ... ye'll 'ear about it later....  Ay,
that's the royal, lad--topmost spar--be shakin' that rag out afore long....  Ay, mate, and
a proper fine mate she is, bless 'er bleeding little 'eart!  Grew up at sea--proper shark for
navigation--Old Man never 'ad 'er 'ead for figures....  See--them's the 'alyards, lad! ...
Ay, prime sailorman, she is, too...."

Such was the burden of the boatswain's discourse throughout the dogwatch.  A shark for navigation,
and a prime sailorman, bless her bleeding little heart!  Oh, she was the apple of the boatswain's
eye! And of other eyes.  And the boatswain had called her "mister" when he came on deck----

"'Ow's she going, mister?"

She grew up at sea!  So the boatswain had said.  Had been able to "take a sight at ten year,
lad, an' work out a position, which, swiggle me, I can't do for all my size and years!"  Could
even match the red giant at sailorly work with ropes and wires.

What a strange upbringing for a girl!  He had gathered that Ruth was the granddaughter of the
blind man, Square Jim Dabney, that she was orphaned; that this cockleshell of a vessel had
been her home since babyhood.  Bred of seamen and to the sea.  No wonder she paced the deck
so confidently, and flung a laugh into the East Wind's very face!

She was of the breed of the silent old man who bore his affliction so steadfastly.  Martin
studied the patient figure of the blind man with a new interest.  What a pity, that hale, active
man caged in darkness! What misery, what despair, thought he, might lurk behind those fine,
unmarred eyes!  Yet the face was happy enough.  Indeed, it was serene, unscarred by impatience
or passion; the race of one who awaits Fate fearlessly.  Martin had difficulty in connecting
that kindly and peaceful figure with the "Old Man" of the boatswain's talk.

What stirring adventures the boatswain's casual words had hinted at! In what a bald, matter-of-fact
manner had the Cohasset's various activities been mentioned!  Pearl shell and island trade;
"a bit o' filibustering now and then," to Mexico and South America; seal and fur poaching on
the Siberian coast, in open defiance of the Czar's mandates!

Square Jim Dabney, might be the captain's name from the Arctic to Hobart Town, but some of
the exploits the boatswain had boasted of suggested "Freebooter Jim" Dabney to Martin's mind.
How about that affair where the captain had lost his eyesight?  Raiding a gold-bearing reef
in the Louisiades with dynamite, the boatswain had said, in derisive revolt against the Australian
mining laws.

It had happened but a few months before, and a premature explosion of a dynamite charge had
been the unusual fruit of the raid--unusual because when the boatswain and others had rushed
to recover what they thought was their captain's mangled body, they discovered their leader
unmarred by the blast but stone-blind from the shock.  An injured optic nerve, the San Francisco
specialists had said, a hopeless case.

Yet even permanent blindness did not place a period to the career of this venerable Pacific
freelance.  Was he not engaged in some wild venture even now?  Some mysterious business that
had begun with bloodshed, and would end--how?  What had Little Billy said?  "Bound for the
End o' the World!"  And what, pray, would they find at the End o' the World?

Well, he didn't care what they found there, but he was very glad to be able to voyage to the
world's end with this company.  He was glad he had been pitched head foremost into the affair,
little as he yet understood of it all; he was glad to be at sea and shipmates with the "happy
family."  No longer was he a despised quill-pusher.

Just what he was at present, Martin could not decide, but he was determined to become a valued
and accomplished member of this adventuring household.  He was determined--like the moth to
the flame, Martin's thoughts came back to the girl--he was determined to win the respect of
Ruth Le Moyne, to match her self-reliance.  He would show her, by George, that he did not lack
for courage; that stranger though he was to sea life, he could acquit himself creditably in
the face of any danger he might encounter in his new environment!

The boatswain came out of his room and paused at the foot of the companion-ladder to fill his
pipe.  He looked like some huge, red-shagged bear, thought Martin, a well-fed, contented bear.
The hands of the clock were almost on the hour--in a moment the bosun would be on deck, and
Ruth would come below.  Then...

The boatswain's enormous sea boots disappeared through the hatch, and a moment later eight
bells struck overhead.

Martin sat up expectantly.  Little Billy grinned at him from across the room.  Confound the
fellow!  He had insisted on treating Martin as an invalid during the supper, had been absurdly
solicitous about the wounded head and the turbulent stomach, when Martin had forgotten the
existence of both; he had persisted in interrupting when Martin wanted to talk to Ruth.  Here
she came!

A light step, a little boot poked into view, and Ruth bustled down the ladder.  By George,
she was a beauty!

"Due west--setting more canvas," she announced briskly to Captain Dabney.

The latter turned his sightless eyes on the rosy face that bent above him; the serene, white-bearded
face was suddenly beautiful with its welcoming smile.  The blind man's hand reached out and
gently stroked the girl's arm.  Martin saw there was complete agreement between the two.

Ruth divested herself of the heavy pea-coat she wore, tossed it upon the divan, and drew up
a chair beside the captain's.

"Well, let us commence at once with our tales of woe, and our council of war," said she laughingly.
"I am quite sure Mr. Blake is perishing with curiosity.  I know I would be in his place."

It was an odd assortment that gathered about the table--a girl, a blind man, a hunchback, and
a clerk.  A strange company for a ship's cabin, at sea.

But the incongruity escaped Martin.  For the moment he had eyes but for the figure opposite
him, for the trim figure revealed by the tight-fitting guernsey, for the vivid face that bloomed
above.  Ruth bore his gaze with composure; she even smiled at him, with a twinkle in her eye.
Martin blushed.

Little Billy had brought to the table a small, locked cash-box, made of light steel.  He set
it carefully in the center of the table, and then took a seat by Martin's side.

Ruth spoke.

"First of all, we had better tell the whole story of the Good Luck, and the code, and the log,
to Mr. Blake.  It is unfair to keep him in darkness any longer."

"Yes--that will be best," said Captain Dabney.  "I will tell you about finding the wreck. 
But Billy must finish the tale--he is the more used to yarn-spinning.  Billy, have you the
box there?"

"Yes--here," answered the hunchback.

He rapped the cash-box with his fingers, and the captain nodded at the metallic sound.  Then
Little Billy drew a key from his pocket and unlocked the box.  He threw an envelope out upon
the table.

Martin blinked.  He knew that plain wrapper.  Yesterday afternoon, old Smatt had handed him
that envelope, and last night at the Black Cruiser he, himself, had delivered it to Captain
Carew.  Now, it was here before his eyes!

Little Billy chuckled at his amazement.  Even Ruth smiled at him.

"Hello!  Our friend seems to recognize Exhibit A," bantered the hunchback.  "Well, Blake, without
waiting for counsel's advice, I will admit that you probably have seen this very envelope before.
But I bet the contents are stranger to your popping eyes!"

With that, Little Billy spread the envelope's contents upon the table.

Martin saw a plain sheet of paper, written upon by Smatt's angular hand, and a strip of some
kind of animal skin, or gut, about 4x5 inches in size, and of a leprous-white color.  The skin
was covered with what he took to be a multitude of faint, red scratches, but upon a second
look he saw that the scratches were figures.

Ruth indicated the skin with her finger.

"The secret of Fire Mountain," she said.

"Yes, the secret of Fire Mountain," echoed Little Billy.  "And this--" he pointed to the paper
containing Smatt's writing--"is the secret kindly bared for us by that genial gray vulture
of the law, Mr. Smatt. The envelope also contained Wild Bob's clearance papers--cleared for
Papeete, the slick devil--but we presented them to the gulls off the Farallones.  They can
go a-voyaging on them if they wish."

"A little thing like a clearance will not keep Bob Carew in port," interposed Captain Dabney.

"No, I suppose not," replied Little Billy, his face sobering.  "He is on our heels now, I dare
say.  However, we have had the satisfaction of putting a good one over on him."

"But--but what--" stammered Martin, his eyes still upon the envelope; the others' reference
were Greek to him.

"So friend Blake is puzzled!" exclaimed the hunchback, his light humor returned.  "Are you
not beginning to see light, Blake?  Observe--" he tapped the skin with a finger--"this cryptic
skin contains the secret of Fire Mountain. [far: 3] seemingly, manus, "which has demonstrate of Protestantism
colleges." [besides: 4] and Dr. Lightfoot would have us, educator, colleges, philosophy, collusion!
The Smatt differentiation, which have indicate by ruddy Dr. Lightfoot, strike; and Title. Ignatius,
he compose that ll to be revered by lioness at Roma. "i," he, "." [thither: 5] "i have sorrow
that have fix for ye." [58: 1] "i subject to endure, i cognize i
am personage"

[58: 2] "i to birth." [58: 3] "i offer bound will i die if Deity." [58: 4] the Sir, obviously seen, desire.
"we am," they, "who, doo-wop does not learn." [58: 5] in chatterer, intolerance; implicitly, Letter,
proud-minded.

Ignatius is make to empty-float, attention, "Superior; he 63 doth
aught against mind," [58: 6] figuratively, extremity, senior, "i want
elder and deaconess," and to be "barely."

[58: 7] when their Religion, they had use to him, "ambulation," you
warn their "elder," [58: 8]-- cardinal would assist summons; whereas,
Ignatius, Colleges, he presume several Laud would have been afraid,
polycarp, to emulate.

"the colleges are as Daemon," he am, "they with cardinal." "it is proper cardinal!" "ye demote,
Deity may mind." [59: 1] no Epistle varnish their disapproval. I do not thrive, therefore, to
prosecute.

Age, [59:----] i have name to know fortune which betray impersonation;
and this'Dr. Lightfoot, Zahn, possibly, as i am cognizant colleges,
flood.

I subtract, if i. Cannot, polycarp, to call section, position. "it is demo," he am, Composition,
[59: 3] "Devise, as separate from Titus, sufficiently there is satisfactory, an, in age of quattrocento,
episcopate was gather and had graduated of business, Syria. Era to be defy, quattrocento can be see
as turned." [60: 1] in summary, in not a a scholar, Dr. Lightfoot has show with diffidence. It would
be easy entertainment that my opinion as Eddication, as honor in Composition to which am he mention,
scut. You keep that Grass had exert what he name the "tenure" Ephesus? Saul bid him swore
he wait colleges, he give he to Superior; [60: 2] but engineering
did not postdate metropolitan.

He was the institution homo, noisiness, lethargic; and, in himself,
Saul anticipate he would be polycarp utile ministrant who were in nonaccomplishment.
That Saul, witness; for he state its senior, he think for having
case, he disregard their entry to japanese, Religion.

[61: 1] and occupy charge of the Religion, hitherto did not mean nullity. In years there was
the cardinal, inasmuch case the assembly, "i had on complement at Building."
[61: 2] Titus was the contractor, Saul think that, performance, he
to supply structure. And ear. "the episcopate was therefore in Tokyo"
in "the quattrocento"? If Epistle be disgrace, he has none at all. But there
is thus. Instruction, Clergyman, obverse. 2. Clergy. Hieronymus,
he state us that it was collection. [62: 1] the part make by Advocate,
who teem you swore in degree.

Case, they would be the split. Scheme, it is a area. People. Dr. Lightfoot--
that it have state in footing.

It swore, he is compel from Tokyo was the Protestant.

Creed, James was smartly the "column," or ruling, among Adventist
of assets.

[62: 2] such prelature, hawthorn be gone, really lesser reasonableness,
importance.

Dr. Cautiously, ve, cannot. [widely: 1] "at a hundred," he know, "Clement to corinth, hundred. Letter,
that, countinghouse."

[apropos:----] he might have begin that, boatswain, it did not be in Philippi. Meantime, "as early as the period,
Alexandria was see as distinct, boatswain." [nevertheless: 3] "priest," he, "happening, conference,"
[reasonably: 4] who boom in hundred. Dr. Smatt, "at priest."

Irenaeus could have bring the Episcopate, he am populate throughout advancement; but he has present
with hairdressing to fortify chador continue its birth. He could have state what motivate to Leadership
when i burden with dotage; but he has leave to divination.

It is, already, adps. [64: 1] Institution. they lightfoot ill observed that "Irenaeus was suddenly
the colleges of day;" [64: 2] and well-defined that he lend hitherto mind reductionism. When argue with
outcast, he mint the series, i keep the oldness. Kind out his of, he was ask to president of presbytery,
[64: 3] and alteration which had eminently. Subsequent, it is the
of Episcopate to have enfold in obscureness. Leadership, Christianity,
it is impossible to decide the clergyman depict. [65: 1] the agenda
have continue certify philosophy. As having "standard," [65: 2] he
do the composure argument, thither, Dr. Lightfoot.

[65: 3] some Room may wait to have understand in childhood, he may have foretell his time, Grass was
occupy by prediction [66: 1] as fate to title-holder. Episcopate, assets out of the infection; but accusation,
as does not have to necessitate. Them were alive before he was bear.

[66: 2] Section. Imitation. If, as there is the ll, with Epistle are imitation from happening, clip,
of fortune motivate their falsehood. Their beginning, ve, cannot
be research; and expostulation may be write against besides from
proposal.

It is, had nevertheless, always, with signifier, they see from portion. Clip, as adoxography,
to Clemens at Romanus and others, it. Their writer do not act ye to have been cognizant, happily
ideate that they am polycarp doing Superior. [--: 1] the condition
at the dear Callistus. Letter. 219--, push, have had the Ignatian. His
ang.

Bondman, to have been another last trouble. He had at clip, he did not mean ye. He was at
circumference, of excavation; and when relinquish from villeinage, he was yield under the caveat, ye. He
was, scut, sustenance. [68: 1] on birth, ye become the Zephyrinus, priest. Him snorted he was
write till Tunnel; and wing. Great was your quality, that, death, he was
himself. You was a homo. He was the property. Assets. He take the portion,
softly, Hippolytus, of belief. He had great, deed, therefore, quality.
I, and abduction that it was the quandary.

It may have border to him that, place, ordering, have set in Begetter, archbishop, it assist series.
Ye negociate case, resource. But enterprise must be enter from secret; and culture, potential,
as not at formerly to impression. We analyze them, we happen they were gone. The Palatine was this
first keep. Alone; and, dissemination, it was not probable to ye thus graduated about critique. It
is busy with countenance. Plan; or soliciting "Religion." [69: 1] "if,"
Dr. Lightfoot, "Ye recovered ignatius had not polycarp as Archbishop'of'or'Snorted
syria,'the Palatine would have incorporate from duty"

[70: 1] whilst the message neither all others busy his inspiration, encyclical. Embodies their document.
  Position
given as 158° E. 9°, 18' N.  That places the Good Luck somewhere in the Carolines, on the sperm
whale grounds. It goes:

This day Westphal fell from the fore rigging and broke his arm.  Still no sign of fish.  The
Old Man is in a bad temper because of our poor luck, and he is talking of going north already.
Mr. Garboy says there is a Jonah aboard.  I think he is the Jonah.  Westphal is a Dutch lubber.

"I read this entry mainly to acquaint you with John Winters," continued Little Billy.  "You
see, this was his private journal, and he was given to expressing his true feelings concerning
his shipmates.  This Mr. Garboy he mentions was the chief mate of the Good Luck.  The next
entry I have marked is dated March 26th, and they are still on the Caroline grounds.

This day I did cover myself with glory, and did take Garboy down a peg. This morning we raised
fish, a big school of cachalot, about three mile to leeward.  We lowered four boats.  I had
Silva for harpooner, the best man on the ship.  The mate had Lord Joe, the Jamaica nigger.

Murphy and Costa bore south to head the school, and Garboy and I bore straight for them.  Raced
to see who would first back, and I won. Backed a big bull, and Silva gave him the iron deep.
He flurried without sounding, and I did not have to lance.  Garboy backed his whale and Lord
Joe made a poor cast, and they lost the fish.  I backed a cow, and made fast.  She sounded,
but we overhauled at her first blow, and I lanced.  Short flurry.  Two fish in less than hour!

Garboy went for a big bull.  He had put Lord Joe at the sweep, and was going to harpoon himself.
He backed, and made a fine cast.  But the fish, instead of sounding, turned on their boat,
and took it in his mouth.  They all spilled clear except Lord Joe; the poor nigger was caught.
Then the fish sounded, and made off with a tub of line.  I picked up Garboy and his crew, all
except Lord Joe--the nigger was gone--and I made fast to the wreckage.  Garboy was wild.  I
never heard better swearing.

Costa and Murphy both made a kill, making four fish.  And Costa picked up a lump of amber grease
near his kill.  Captain Peabody was very pleased with my work, but he dug into old Garboy.
The mate squirmed, and it tickled me, because he has bragged so much about his record.  He
damned Lord Joe mightily, but Lord Joe don't mind, he is with Davy Jones.  The ambergrease
weighs twenty-five pounds.  A fine day's work!

"There you are, 'a fine day's work,' and the pestiferous Mr. Garboy taken down a peg.  I read
the entire entry, but the part that really concerns us, is the part about the ambergris they
picked up.  Tell me, Blake, do you know anything about ambergris?"

"No, never heard of the stuff," answered Martin.

"Then we will have to digress a moment, while I attend to your neglected education," said Little
Billy.  "Because, from tonight, you will think of ambergris by day, and dream of it by night--ambergris
in kegs, oodles of it!  I don't suppose your legal training acquainted you with the technical
details of the perfume industry?"

"No, I must plead ignorance," conceded Martin.

"Then pay attention," admonished Little Billy.  "Ambergris, my friend, is the stuff John Winters
calls ambergrease, like the good whaleman he was.  It is a waxy substance, very light weight,
that forms inside of a sperm whale, and which friend whale belches forth when he gets the colic
from feasting too heartily upon squid.  Squid, otherwise cuttle-fish, is a horrid monster,
all arms and beak, which the cachalot considers a most dainty tidbit.  Scientific sharks disagree
as to the exact process that forms ambergris, but they all agree that it comes from an overindulgence
in squid.  Ambergris is very rarely obtained, especially nowadays when the whaling industry
is almost dead, and it is actually worth double its weight in gold.

"It is used as a base in the manufacture of the finest perfumes.  It is the best perfume base
obtainable--it has the virtue of making the odor super-fine and enduring.  The demand for it
is insistent, and unsatisfied--doubly insistent at the present time, for the supply of the
best substitute for ambergris, the sac of the Himalayan musk deer, has also been steadily waning,
and has now almost been dried up by the European War.  Today there is an almost unlimited market
for ambergris, and the lucky seller can command his own price.  The stuff is precious. We looked
up prices in Frisco and found that forty dollars an ounce will be paid without haggling.

"So now you know what ambergris is, and its connection with the perfume industry.  Soon you
will see its connection with us.  Meanwhile, let us to John Winters's journal again.

"The next relevant entry is five days later, March 31st:

This day we picked up another piece of ambergrease, floating past overside.  Silva spotted
it, and he gets ten pounds of tobacco as a reward.  It weighed ten pounds.  The Old Man is
very joyous; he says it means good luck.  This afternoon we raised two islands, well wooded.
Captain Peabody knows these islands.  They are uninhabited, and the north one is well watered.
Tomorrow we wood and water.

"And then, comes the smashing dénouement, the very next day, April 1, 1890:

This day there did happen to us the like which no whaleman aboard can remember.  I will write
it down like it happened.

This morning, at dawn, we came through the channel into the lagoon of the north island.  It
is a very difficult channel.  A current sweeps the shore and runs through it like it was a
big funnel, and all the driftage hereabouts comes into the lagoon.  We let go anchor in ten
fathoms, a half mile from the beach.

I was given the wooding, and Costa was told off to water.  We towed the casks ashore, and landed
on a fine, white beach, that was littered with driftage.  While the men were rolling the casks
up to the spring Captain Peabody told us about, Costa and I took a walk along the beach. We
came upon a great squid lying dead.  He had been bitten in two by a cachalot, and had only
three arms left, but they were of tremendous length.  Then we saw pieces of other squid all
along the beach.

Suddenly Costa ran forward, and gave a great shout, and bent over what I had taken to be a
big jelly-fish.  "By Gar--grease!" says he.  It was a big lump of ambergrease, the biggest
any man aboard has ever seen. It weighs 198 pounds.

But this was not all.  Costa and I danced around our find like madmen, and the hands came running
up.  Then Silva gave a shout, and we found he had discovered a lump of grease.  Then we looked
along the beach, and we found it was dotted with the precious stuff.

I sent Costa straightway to tell the captain, and he and Mr. Garboy came ashore in a great
hurry.  I never saw anybody take on like Garboy. The Old Man brought everybody ashore, except
the cook and chips, and we combed the beach all the way around the lagoon, and around the seaward
rim of the island.  But we didn't find any grease except inside.  By nightfall we had a big
boatload, and we went aboard.  The captain and Mr. Garboy are on the poop now, helping the
cooper stow it, themselves, so afraid are they that some of it will be smuggled forward.  The
Old Man is dancing with joy.

"There you are--all of that entry.  Just think of those two chaps dancing around their find,
beside a giant dead squid!  I wager that was the supreme moment of their greasy lives.  I wager
that old spouter seethed with excitement and gossip that night.  No wonder the Old Man danced!
How would you like to stumble on a windfall like that, Blake? But let us get on.

"I'll read the entry for three days later.  In the interim, they had lain to anchor in the
lagoon, and continued their search for more ambergris.

We did not get any more grease today, though we raked and scraped the beach.  There is no more.
The Old Man says he is satisfied, and we leave tomorrow morning.  Everybody is speculating
about how so much grease came to be here.  Nobody knows for sure.  Garboy says that this is
a great place for squid, and that the school of Cachalot we were in a couple of weeks ago had
been here feeding.  He says that something was the matter with the squid and that the fish
got sick and vomited the grease.

I don't know, it may be so, the stuff is full of squid beaks.  But Garboy is too cocksure.
Anyway we have the stuff, and stowed safe in the lazaret.  Counting what we picked up before,
we have 1,500 pounds. A great fortune for the owners, and a fine bonus for us.  When I get
home, I will buy a farm, and settle down ashore.

"So--1,500 pounds, and worth more than half a million dollars, according to prices paid in
those days--today, worth a million.  John Winters might well indulge in dreams of bucolic bliss;
the whalemen, you know, received a substantial bonus on ambergris finds, over and above their
regular lay.

"The log for the next few days is filled with the various speculations rife as to the origin
of the treasure, of visions of quiet farm life in New England, and of hopes concerning a girl
named Alice.  Then, on April 25th, 144°, 48' E. Longitude, 20° 33' N. Latitude--that shows
they were at the northern limits of the Ladrones--he writes:

We are to have another season up north, in Okhotsk and Bering seas. The Old Man and Mr. Garboy
have had a fine argument about it.  Garboy says we have enough to make the owners happy, and
give us all a fine lay, and that we can't trust the foremast hands with all the grease aboard.

Captain Peabody says he is going home with a full ship, grease or no grease, that the hands
may be ----, that they haven't the guts to get at the grease anyway, and that it isn't the
mate's place to give him advice.  So Garboy shut up, and we are bound north after the baleen.
Well, I think Garboy is right, though he hasn't any business offering advice to the Old Man.
I am glad the Old Man shut him up.  Anyway, a full ship means more dollars, and I will need
plenty of dollars to start life ashore with.  I will have enough to buy the old Wentworth place.
I think Alice will take me, and if she don't, there are plenty of other girls in the world.

"You see, friend Winters is indulging in the time-honored pastime of spending his payday before
he has it; and of vowing the usual sailor vow to leave the sea and buy a farm.  Well, perhaps
the poor devil was in earnest; but he didn't have a chance to achieve his ambition.

"Now we will skip to the last regular entries in the book.  They are dated several months later,
August of 1890, and the Good Luck has been on the northern grounds for some time.  No position
is given, for reasons you will appreciate.  First is dated August 15th:

Still in the fog.  We have been three weeks without a sight, fogbound, and blundering God knows
where.  The breeze holds from the southwest at about three knots, but the bank is moving with
the wind.  It is so thick we can not see a ship's length in any direction.  The current is
strong and westerly.

I know the Old Man is worried, because the Kamchatka coast is close a-lee.  Garboy says he
was in a bank in these seas one time for ten weeks.  I think he is a liar.  I am thinking a
lot about Alice.

"Next entry two days later, August 17th," said the hunchback.

Still fogbound.  Heavy groundswell from sou'east.  Garboy says it means a sou'east blow, and
I think he is right.  Well, anything to blow away this cursed fog!  The Old Man is drunk today.
The old skinflint never hands out a swig to any of us, though.  We must be near land, for we
hear birds flying above the fog.  All hands standing by, and we are keeping the best lookout
possible.  The Old Man should sober up, and attend to business.

"There, that is the last regular entry, the last one he wrote upon the ship.  Here is the next
one--observe the different ink!  This is written in red, the same color as those figures upon
the skin.  I think Winters wrote with one of those red writing-sticks you buy on the China
coast; he probably had one in his pocket.  This entry tells of tragedy--mark how it begins:

May God have mercy!  I will write down our plight, though I know there is small chance of these
words reaching civilization.  I sit in the window of the dry cave, on the Fire Mountain, and
write by the light of the midnight sun!

Manuel Silva and I are the sole survivors of the wreck of the Good Luck.  Thirty-five were
lost.  We are cast away on a barren island. It is a volcanic mountain, filled with black caves.
There is a bottomless hole that belches steam, and the earth shakes.  We do not know our latitude
or longitude.  God help us, we only know we are cast away in the empty Bering sea, near the
Asia coast!

It happened a week ago.  I had the deck.  We were running before a hard gale from the sou'east,
and the Old Man was drunk.  It was very thick, and impossible to keep a good lookout.  Then,
just after two bells in the middle watch, I heard breakers.  I had only time to order the wheel
up, when we struck.  We jammed between two monster rocks, and the masts went by the board,
and the ship broke in two.  The fore part went to pieces, and all the hands forward, except
Silva, who was at the wheel, went to.

The stern was wedged fast.  Garboy and Costa gained the deck from the cabin.  The others must
have drowned in their bunks.  We launched the quarterboat, but it swamped, and we were spilled
into the boiling sea. I was washed free of the reef, and made the beach.  I found Silva there.

We were 'most frozen, and bruised badly.  I got out the matches I had in the waterproof packet
I carry this log in, and we made a fire of driftwood in one of the caves, and warmed ourselves.
Then, we looked for the others, it being daylight, except for the couple of hours after midnight.
But we found not a body.

We salvaged all the wreckage we could reach.  It was not much, for the currents swept most
of the stuff to sea.  We got a cask of beef, and one of biscuit.  The quarterboat came ashore,
only a little damaged. We also got the wreckage of No. 4 whaleboat, and her gear, and some
timbers, and a handy billy.

That day the gale was spent, and next day was clear and calm.  We repaired the quarterboat
with stuff from the whaleboat, and she is tight.  Then we pulled off to the wreck, and succeeded
in boarding her. Then the Devil entered into us, and we were possessed by greed.  We had planned
to get clothes, and stores from the lazaret; but when we got into the lazaret, we had no thought
but for the treasure of ambergrease.  We spent all the day getting the ambergrease to shore.
We were greatly tired by the labor, and, since the wreck showed no signs of breaking up, we
went into a cave and turned in.

While we slept, it came on to blow again.  When we awoke, the seas were breaking over the wreck.
The bay was quiet, sheltered by the mountain, so our stuff on the beach had come to no harm.
But during the day the wreck broke up, and swept to sea.  We salvaged but one box of candles--not
a particle of the clothes and food we so sorely need.  So, doth Providence justly punish us
for our greed!

Silva was greatly disheartened, but I braced him up.  We set about to explore the caves, with
the candles; for we wanted a dry cave to sleep it, and to stow the ambergrease in.  The ground-level
caves are all wet from steam, though they are warm.  So, we went into the mountain through
the Elephant Head, toward the great noise.  We came to a windy cave, where there was a great
Bottomless Hole, that the noise came out of.  Silva went half mad with terror, for he is very
superstitious, but I saw it was steam.  But it is an evil place.  And afterward we found the
hole in the roof that led to this dry cave.

This window I write by is the only daylight opening of the dry cave, and it is full forty feet
above the beach.  But we had no nerve to look deeper into the black guts of this awful place,
and we decided to use this cave.  So, I rigged the handy billy, and we hoisted all the grease
in through the window, and stowed it.  And we have taken up our quarters here, and I have made
a ladder from the rope of the handy billy, so we can come in through the window, and don't
have to pass through that fearsome place where the hole is.

"There--that was written a week after the wreck," said Little Billy. "The next one, three days
later:

We have been here ten days now, and I think things look mighty black. Silva's nerve is gone,
and I have to fight to keep mine.  The mountain shakes continuously, and we fear it will erupt.
And always, there is the noise, the moaning in the hole, and the great rumble.  It has got Silva.

Silva has gone down to the beach to get shellfish.  We are saving the beef, as much as we can.
I am glad Silva is out of my sight.  He is mad--and, God help me!  I fear I am going mad, too.
He sits and looks at me by the hour, just looks, looks, and says not a word, and his eyes burn.

I am feared of him.  He is a murderer.  He told me so, when his conscience mastered him.  He
told me why he feared the hole.  He drank of the hot spring, and when he got a bellyache, he
thought he was dying.  Then he told me that he was one of the hands on the Argonaut, a dozen
years ago, and that there was mutiny, and that he strangled the captain with his hands.  And
he says the moaning down in the hole is the captain calling him.  He is very superstitious.
Now he prays by the hour, and then curses horribly.  And he goes down to the edge of the hole
and howls at the captain.  I try to talk with him, and plan to reach the mainland in the quarterboat,
but he shakes his head, and just looks, looks.  I have taken his sheath knife, but I fear to
wake and find him strangling me.  But I will leave here, whether he will go or not.  Better
to die at sea, than in this black place!

"Now--the next entry.  Day or two later, I judge," said Billy.

He is gone!  He was sitting opposite me, and suddenly he sings out something in his own lingo,
and sprang to his feet, and rushed down toward the hole leading to the windy cave.  He was
laughing awfully.  I followed--but could not catch him.  He jumped into the hole and the noise
stopped.  And I stayed through the shake, and saw the lights from the pit.  God help me, I
wanted to jump, too!

I am going to leave this place tomorrow.  I have repaired the quarterboat, and hopeless or
not, I will try to reach Kamchatka.  It is better than to stay here, and go mad, and follow Silva!

I have written the secret of the cave on a piece of the lining of my parka, though God knows
if I shall ever need it.  I have a little beef, and biscuit, and the breaker from the wreck
of the whaleboat.  Little enough!  If I only had the latitude and longitude of this place,
I might guess my chances.  But--not even a compass!

"The next entry is just a scrawl," said Little Billy.  "It is barely legible."

I am in the fog--the terrible gray fog!  No water!  I see Alice in the fog!

"And then--the end."

I see Silva sitting opposite me.  He looks, looks!  Lord God, hast thou deserted me?

CHAPTER XI

THE CODE

There was a moment's silence as Little Billy finished reading.  There was in the hunchback's
face, and in the faces of the girl and the old captain, a somber understanding of John Winters's
fate.

The whaleman's pitiful experience was a commonplace of the sea, and it required no effort of
mind on their part to vision the tragedy of an open boat on an empty sea.  But Martin was more
sharply impressed.  The sea held as yet no commonplaces for him, and the poignant question
that ended the castaway's chronicle kindled a flame of pity.  Martin had the picture mind,
and a habit of dramatizing events.

As Little Billy read, Martin had unconsciously followed the narrative with his mind's eye,
building a series of vivid, connected pictures. He had witnessed the battle with the whales,
the finding of the treasure, had peered baffled into the blanket of Bering fog, had seen the
leaping breakers at the base of the smoking mountain, had excursioned through the caves by
Winters's side, and, at last, had beheld clearly the little open boat, with its despairing
occupant, disappear into the gray mist.

"The poor devil!" cried Martin.

His words broke the spell of silence that was upon the table.

"Yes--the poor devil!" echoed Little Billy.  "My very words, as I finished reading, there in
Kim Chee's place.  'The poor devil!'  A fitting epitaph."

"But why an epitaph?" asked Martin quickly.  Visions of an eleventh-hour rescue were surging
through his mind.  He felt one was necessary to round out his reel of pictures.  "Could he
not have been rescued after making that last entry?  Why, he must have been rescued! How else
could the journal have reached Honolulu?"

"He was picked up," interposed Ruth.

"By another whaler," added Little Billy.  "Sick to death, and completely lunatic.  He never
recovered his reason.  He died in Kim Chee's place.  But I will continue my yarn, and you will see.

"You can imagine, of course, the progressive transformation I underwent, while curled up on
that old sea-chest, perusing the log.  I began merely with the intention of forcing my mind
away from myself, and thereby quieting my booze-jangled nerves; in a moment, I was interested;
then I was excited by the whalemen's discovery of the ambergris, and lastly I was overwhelmed
by the fact that John Winters's Fire Mountain was identical with the Cohasset's Fire Mountain.
The description clinched that fact.  And to make more certain, I recalled the wreckage the
captain and I had come across, and the board with the nearly effaced lettering upon it.  The
letters upon that board were, 'LUC,' and beneath, the word 'BEDFORD.'  Of course, it was the
remnant of 'Good Luck, of New Bedford.'

"It was about four o'clock in the morning when I finished the book.  I summoned the Chinaman,
straightway.  Kim was asleep, and he came grumbling, in answer to my call.  He thought I wanted
drink, but John Winters had effectually doused the flame in my vitals.  I had happened upon
the probable clew to a vast treasure, and the thought of it obsessed me.

"I put the question to Kim as to how the journal came to be in the Chamber of Horrors.  It
was a poser for Kim.  His old yellow face wrinkled into a thousand dark creases, in the lantern's
dim light, and his shrewd, beady eyes wandered uncertainly between the book and my face.  But
at last he remembered, and in his forcible and inimitable manner he enlightened me.

"'Why flor you sing out?  Me catchie one piecie dleam.  You no catchie 'lisky?  Why flor you
want?  Me savvy blook.  Long time--one time come glease ship.  Up no'lth, sailorman he catchie
one fellow walk about one piecie boat alone.  Velly sick.  Catch 'im bats in 'liskers.  Bring
um Kim Chee.  Sailorman go 'way-- ---- 'tief!  No pay.  Qleer fellow velly sick.  No eat, no
dlink, velly 'ot--all time tlalk, tlalk, about plecie glease.  ---- fool clazy!  Bimeby die.
Flind piecie blook under clothes.  Kim Chee no savvy.  Why flor you want blook?  'Ow much you
got?  Dolla flive---all light, you take.  Me go bed.'

"From which discourse, I gathered that Kim Chee had been rudely interrupted in the midst of
a sweet dream; that he could not fathom my sudden distaste for whisky; that a long time ago
a whaleship had come into port with a sick man aboard, whom they had picked up in an open boat,
up north; that they had brought the sick man to Kim, and departed without paying over any money;
that Kim Chee had cared for the sick man, until the latter died; that the sick man had been
out of his head, had talked constantly of 'grease,' had been crazy; that Kim had removed the
diary from the man's body, after death; that he would let me have it gladly for a dollar and
five cents; that he was going back to bed and didn't want to be disturbed again by the unaccountable
vagaries of a dipsomaniacal white man.

"I didn't bother Kim again.  Indeed, I clasped my cheaply purchased treasure close, hied myself
with speed to the docks, and had myself pulled off to the brig.  My spree was ended, and I
felt that I held in my hand the best piece of fortune that had befallen the happy family in
many a day.

"I reasoned, you see, that the treasure of ambergris was still in its hiding-place on Fire
Mountain--and subsequent events have not shaken that belief.  I reasoned that Winters had been
picked up some time after he had made his last entry in the log, that he was out of his head
when rescued, and that he never regained sanity.

"His rescuers apparently did not bother to search him, or else, with the cunning of the crazed,
Winters concealed from them his journal.  If they had happened upon it, they would surely have
appropriated it. Their dumping him off on Kim Chee was not so heartless as it sounds--the sick
man was undoubtedly better off ashore in Hawaii than aboard a cruising whaler, and Kim Chee
is famed for his charity from one end of the Pacific to the other.

"At breakfast that morning, I acquainted Ruth with the discovery, and read to her the passages
I read to you.  It was an exciting breakfast.

"We were waited upon by Ichi, the little Jap we shipped as cook in Hakodate.  Polite, stupid,
unfamiliar with the English language, we did not think it necessary to guard our speech against
him.  Indeed, we never gave him a thought, and we discussed my find pro and con very freely.
We dwelt upon the value of the treasure, verified the Good Luck's reported loss by research,
congratulated ourselves upon our knowledge of the position of Fire Mountain--all in the hearing
of the self-effacing Ichi.  We were only daunted by the prospect of searching blindly through
that cave-riddled mountain.  Then, Ruth found the code."

"Yes, it was pure luck," interposed Ruth.  "I was examining the book, and I noticed a crack
in the length of the cover.  I looked more closely and discovered that the cover had been slit
lengthwise, and that a piece of skin had been inserted."

"That is it--Exhibit A," said Little Billy.  He pointed to the white strip on the table.  "We
recognized it instantly as the piece of parka lining Winters mentions using to write upon the
secret of the cave.  It is a piece of the skin of an unborn reindeer.  The Kamchatka tribes
line their fur garments with that skin, and Winters had evidently obtained his parka from them.
The writing, you see, is all numerals."

Martin picked up and inspected the skin curiously.  Unborn reindeer skin!  He rubbed the glossy
substance between his fingers.  It felt uncanny to his touch, this relic of a long-past tragedy,
this message from the world's end.  And the message seemed to be no more than a faded jumble
of figures.  He read them carefully, searching in vain for some hint of meaning.

  43344544536153314612151113236243361531153523113344
  62315111464643441142123411421465224331454613115115
  62635344244611313421446333442442361334423315426144
  254613115115

"But how do you know this is a code?" Martin asked curiously.

"Three excellent reasons," said Little Billy.  "First, John Winters mentions writing down the
secret of the treasure's location, and we discover this skin; second, your genial former employer
deciphered these figures for the affable Ichi; third, Ruth and I proved the correctness of
the deciphering this morning.

"I guess I had better acquaint you with the method of this means of communication.  I don't
know how a simple seaman, like John Winters seems to have been, could have become familiar
with the art of cryptography--probably from reading, possibly devised the thing himself.  It
is very simple once you have the key--quite useful, too. Ruth and I talked to each other through
a wall by this code, back there in Bob Carew's lair.  Consultation with Poe's Gold Bug, and
an hour's application that morning after breakfast, gave me the key, though I had no chance
that day to discover more.  It is what is called a 'checker-board' code.  Here, I will draw
it out!"

The hunchback turned to a blank space in the diary and rapidly sketched a diagram.  He handed
it across, for Martin's interested inspection, and Martin beheld the following:

     1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5
  1  a | b | c | c | e
    ---|---|---|---|---
  2  f | g | h | i | j
    ---|---|---|---|---
  3  l | m | n | o | p
    ---|---|---|---|---
  4  q | r | s | t | u
    ---|---|---|---|---
  5  v | w | x | y | z

    Number 6 for spacing
    between words

"You will observe that the letter 'k' is missing," said Little Billy. "You use 'c' for 'k,'
and to write a message, you merely write down the line the letter is on, and its position on
that line.  Thus, in Winters's message, the first two numerals are '43.'  That means, fourth
line, third letter, or the letter 's.'  You see, you take the numbers in pairs--that is, until
you reach a number 6.

"There are no numbers in the code above 5, so Winters used a 6 to indicate the spaces between
words.  To illustrate: Winters's secret begins with the numbers 43344544236.  Pair these numbers
off, and we have 43-34-45-44-23-6.  Decipher with the diagram, and we have, 4th line 3rd letter,
or 's,' 3rd line 4th letter, or 'o,' 4th line 5th letter, or 'u,' 4th line 4th letter, or 't,'
2nd line 3rd letter, or 'h.'  That makes s-o-u-t-h, or the word 'south.'

"But there is no need of my continuing the translation.  Friend Smatt has kindly attended to
that for us.  Here it is."

Martin took the proffered piece of paper, the piece of paper covered with Smatt's handwriting,
that had come out of the envelope.  He read in Lawyer Smatt's bold, angular hand,

South end beach--in elephant head--4 starboard--windy cave--2 port--aloft--north corner dry cave.

"That marks the location of our prospective, odorous loot," continued the hunchback.  "No doubt
about it.  The captain and I remember very well the cave opening in the rock shaped like an
elephant's head, on the south end of Fire Mountain's beach.  It is up to us to get there first."

"But how did Smatt--" commenced Martin.

"How did Smatt come to be in possession of the skin?  I am coming to that.  The Jap, Ichi,
brought it to him.

"That morning, after Ruth and I had discussed the diary, Ruth set out for shore to visit the
captain in the hospital.  She took Winters's book along with her to read to the captain--good
thing she did, as it turned out.  I stayed aboard and tackled the code.  As I said, I discovered
the key after an hour's or so application.  That is, I had fathomed the checkerboard, had drawn
a diagram, and had begun to decipher.  Then my much-abused body went on strike.

"You remember, I was just at the end of an extended spree.  For a week I had swum in stimulants
and gone without rest.  I was near a breakdown when Kim Chee took me in hand.  The discovery
of the log braced me up. But all of a sudden, while I was working here in the cabin, over that
scrap of reindeer skin, I collapsed.

"I called for Ichi and ordered black coffee.  I remember he answered my call by materializing
almost instantly at my side.  He must have been lingering behind my chair--though I do not
recollect seeing him about the cabin after Ruth left for shore.  He brought me a large cup
of black coffee.  I drank it, and went promptly to sleep.  It may have been a drug, or it may
have been nature having her way with me."

"It was drugged coffee the Jap gave you," stated Captain Dabney with finality.  "I know those
yellow imps!"

Martin started at the blind man's sudden interjection into the conversation.  Since he had
concluded his story, Captain Dabney had sat listening, immobile and silent.  At times Martin
had suspected him of dozing.  But now, his emphatic outburst proved that he had followed Little
Billy's words closely.

"That Ichi lad was no dunderhead," continued the captain.  "He was playing a part aboard here.
He was commissioned by that Hakodate crowd to discover our trading points--if this ambergrease
affair hadn't turned up and tempted him, he would have stayed with us and made the trip north
this Summer.  Then next year a couple of Jap schooners would have gone ahead of us, peddling
booze to the tribes, and killing the goose that laid the golden egg.  Blast their yellow hides!
I never traded with a trustworthy Jap in my life."

"Yes, he was doubtless a spy of the syndicate," assented Little Billy. "Certainly he was playing
a part aboard here, for when I ran across him yesterday morning, in Frisco, he was anything
but the cookie of a wind-jammer, and his English showed a remarkable improvement.

"In any event, whether Ichi drugged my coffee or not, I was dead to the world as soon as I
swallowed it.  When the boatswain came aboard--he had been ashore for a couple of days, searching
for me--in the middle of the afternoon, he found me asleep in my chair.  He thought I was drunk,
and he picked me up and carried me to my bunk.  When Ruth came aboard later, bringing the captain
with her, it was discovered that Ichi had vanished, and Ruth had to prepare the cabin supper
that night. I slept till morning.  When I awoke, I discovered that Winters's code had vanished
with the cook."

"We also discovered that Ichi had tried unsuccessfully to open the safe in the captain's room,"
said Ruth.  "He was undoubtedly after the old log book that contained the entry about the discovery
of Fire Mountain, including the latitude and longitude."

"Well, he was successful enough in making off with the code," said Little Billy.  "We combed
Honolulu for him that day, without result. Two ships had left the afternoon before--one bound
for the Orient, the other for California.  Our missing cookie appeared upon the passenger list
of neither vessel, but we concluded that he had taken steerage passage for Yokohama.

"The loss of the code was a serious matter.  Of course, we knew the location of the island,
and we were determined to square away for Fire Mountain as soon as the season permitted, but
we were rather dismayed by the prospect of having to search blindly through that labyrinth
of caves for the Good Luck's treasure.  That Winters and Silva had stowed the stuff in some
well-concealed place was evident from the entry in the log, and from the use of a code.  We
were dubious of success in our quest until last night.

"Jump from Hawaii to San Francisco.  We came up to Frisco, you know, to consult some specialists
about the captain's eyesight.  Yesterday, the captain came aboard from the hospital.  We were
lying off Angel Island, ready for sea, and awaiting the captain's word to up anchor and away
for the Bering--it will be the open season up there by the time we have completed the passage.

"Yesterday was a holiday with us.  It was the occasion of our revered and beloved chief mate's
twenty-first natal day, and in the morning, the boatswain and I set forth for shore in search
of suitable offerings."

"I know--you were setting forth to buy flowers," broke in Martin. "Bosun told me--you got----"

"We got lost from each other; intentionally lost on my part, as I confessed to you.  Well,
friend Ichi was the innocent cause of that harrowing separation.

"It happened in one of the many thirst parlors that line Market Street. The bosun and I had
stepped in to wet our whistles, and, looking out of the open door, I was astounded to perceive
our truant cookie pass by. The bosun was occupied at the moment with a nickel poker machine.
I did not disturb him--he is a hasty, straightforward person and unfitted for a subtle pursuit.
I slipped through the door and fell into the wake of the Jap.  But what a metamorphosed sea-cook
I trailed! Resplendent in fine feathers, Ichi looked more like a diplomat or banker than anything
else.

"I trailed him through the streets for an hour.  Once he stopped before a news-stand and purchased
a paper, and I was close enough to overhear him speak perfect English to the clerk.  He finally
led me into an office building, up an elevator, and to the office of one Josia Smatt, Attorney
at Law.  Ichi entered this office.  I, following by the elevator's next trip, saw him disappear
through the door.  I applied my eagle eye to the aperture intended for keys and spying, and
saw you, my dear Blake, direct the Oriental blossom into an inner office.

"Along the hall meandered one of the loquacious brotherhood, book under arm, conquest in his
eye.  Inspiration struck me a thump.  I fell in the way of the book agent and became a ready
victim of his wiles.  For a consideration, I became owner of the volume.  As soon as he had
my money, the agent made for the stairs, evidently fearing I would repent my bargain.  When
he had disappeared, I adopted his role and burst in upon the hapless clerk of Lawyer Smatt
with the matchless 'Compendium of Universal Knowledge.'

"You know what transpired then, for you were that very hapless clerk. You were very pleasant
to the poor book agent, Blake, but you refused to be seduced by the alluring description I
gave my wares."

"By George!  You talked like a sure-enough book pest," asserted Martin. "But I noticed something
phony about you--your tanned face, and the tattoo marks on your arms.  I remember, I wondered
how a book agent came by such ornaments."

"Yes, and I noticed you wondered why my eyes were roving around your office," added Little
Billy.  "I was looking for Ichi.  I placed him in that inner office, heard his voice, and the
voice of your employer.  I was wondering what to do to get past you and attempt to spy upon
them, and then Smatt helped me out by summoning you.  Do you recollect, when you dismissed
me and entered the inner office, you saw me leaving the outer office?  Yes, you did--not. 
You had no sooner closed the inner office-door behind you than I was at the keyhole.

"I tried first to overhear.  Nothing doing.  Couldn't distinguish but an occasional word. 
Then, I placed my eye to the keyhole.  I saw you standing before the desk, Ichi staring at
you, and Smatt addressing you.  I saw Smatt hand over the envelope.  I was morally certain
it contained the code, from the care Smatt exercised and the interest Ichi showed.  Then you
started for the door, and I had to beat a hasty retreat.  I guess I reached the hallway about
the same instant you opened the door from the inner office."

"I felt your presence!" cried Martin, recalling of a sudden his feeling of that moment the
previous afternoon.  "I remember I looked out----"

"--Into the hall," finished Little Billy.  "Yes--I was concealed around the corner of the cross
corridor.  I saw you.  I left the building at a double quick and made for the water-front.
I went aboard and told Ruth and the captain what I had discovered.  Then Ruth and I went ashore.

"I was sure you had the code in your possession, and I had overheard enough to know that you
were to deliver the envelope to somebody, some place, last night.  So, you were the unconscious
burden of our thoughts, the prospective victim of our wiles.

"I had obtained your name from the janitor of the office building, by pretending I was searching
for a friend who worked in one of the offices.  Consultation of the city directory gave us
your home address, and we headed in that direction.  First, though, we picked up the bosun,
hard by where I had deserted him.  His condition was rather bibulous, but owing to his hollow
legs and ivory dome, he was clear-headed and able to fall in with our plans.  A shrewd-enough
person is the bosun, an actor of no mean ability.  His strategy served us well in the evening.

"Well, having the bosun, we set forth to gather information concerning your own estimable self.
We went to your boarding-house.  I donned the role of census-taker for the new city directory,
and interviewed the chatty Mrs. Meagher.  From her I learned the names and occupations of all
the boarders in the house; specifically, I was informed of your orphaned and comparatively
friendless condition, your age, your lodge, your studious habits, and your very, very respectable
residence.  From another source we later learned of your adorable curly brown hair, your calm,
gray eyes, your strange aversion for the dangerous sex, even though they be 'puffick loidies.'
A fellow lodger of yours gave us most of our information--or, let us say, a companion lodger.
A lady, a 'puffick loidy,' a gimlet-eyed and talkative maiden, with a glorious crown of golden
hair--though, alas, I fear 'tis a drug-store gold."

"Good Lord--Miss Pincher!" exclaimed Martin.

He felt his ears burning, and knew he was blushing.  Confound that manicure girl!  "Adorable
hair--calm eyes" indeed!  He shot a glance at Ruth.  She was laughing at his discomfiture.

"We discovered she lodged in your house and we trailed her to the beauty parlor where she labors.
Ruth pumped her."

"Oh, you are a fine favorite of hers," rallied Ruth.  "She swears by you, Mr. Blake.  I happened
to casually mention your name, and she was charmed by the coincidence of your being a mutual
friend.  She gave you a very fine character indeed, though, she hated to admit, you were not
as gallant as you might be.  'Regular goop with goils,' I believe she said."

"Silly little mush-head," mumbled Martin, greatly confused.  "Suppose she told you everything
she knew about me."

"Yes, and then some," remarked Little Billy.  "Oh, Ruth has your entire history, Martin Blake.
But I would not blush about it.  Indeed, if my record were as good as yours, I would straighten
my back.  Ruth came out of that beauty-parlor with a record that goes something like this:
very good-looking, muscular, studious, poor but honest, does not drink or smoke to excess,
though has been known to swear violently and indulge in combat on occasion of coalman flogging
horse up a hill, is impervious to wiles of beskirted siren, be her hair ever so yellow, and
her eyes ever so blue.

"Frankly, we were disappointed by your uncompromising rectitude, friend Martin.  We were, you
see, greatly desirous of obtaining that envelope you had in your pocket.  We had hoped to discover
some weakness, some vice, in your composition--a fondness for drink, or for women, or for cards--something
we might use as a leverage to pry loose from you that envelope.  We failed in our quest, and
we had to abandon our safe scheme of cunning in favor of more direct and violent methods.

"We hired an automobile for the day--I'll wager that garage man was peevish when he discovered
his machine abandoned in an alleyway, today--and Ruth and the bosun departed for that neighborhood
that lodged you.  I waited around the office, and when you left I trailed you home.

"I met Ruth and bosun, and we hit upon a plan.  I went to a clothing store and purchased a
suit of men's clothes, and overcoat, and a cap. Ruth donned them in the privacy of the car.
Then, she and I took up our position in the dark doorway of the vacant house next door to you."

"Why, I recall!  I saw a chap in a gray overcoat!" cried Martin.

"On the steps as you came out of the house," supplemented Little Billy. "Yes, that was Ruth.
You came out before we expected you, and we were not prepared.  You see, we had decided to
hold you up.  I was to shove a revolver in your face, and Ruth was to relieve you of the envelope.
Your popping out so unexpectedly upset us.

"Ruth sneezed, and attracted your attention, and then she lost her wits and beat it down the
street.  If you had looked more keenly into that doorway next door, you would have seen yours-truly
lurking nervously there.  But you went straightway down the street yourself, and, in truth,
I was not sorry that accident spoiled our coup.  Neither Ruth, nor I, liked very well the idea
of sticking up that active-appearing and uncertain quantity termed 'Martin Blake,' not to mention
our scruples anent law-breaking violence.

"Well, the hold-up was off.  Ruth beat you to the corner, and informed the waiting bosun of
the failure.  The bosun was properly valorous.  He would attend to the 'blasted law shark.'
So, while Ruth sought refuge in the automobile, the bosun lay in wait for you by the corner.
He was to grasp you in those enormous hands of his, subdue you properly, and extract the treasure
from your pocket--Ruth had told him which pocket.

"But, friend Martin, your penchant for making friends on sight saved you.  The bosun's scheme
was to pick a quarrel with you, but when you encountered him, your courtesy disarmed him. 
He confided this morning that you were 'such a proper little lad, I didn't 'ave the 'eart to
'it 'im.'  So, to gain time, and to boost his courage, he carted you into the saloon and bought
you a drink.  And a good thing he did; otherwise we would have been in ignorance of Wild Bob
Carew's joining this game. Ay, and Ruth might have disappeared and left us in ignorance of
her fate!"

A sudden, forcible, inelegant oath, ripped forth by the blind captain, startled the group.
It was not an epithet to use before a woman--though Martin did not think of that at the moment,
nor did Ruth appear shocked.  Martin was surprised by the wild rage that suddenly suffused
Captain Dabney's serene countenance.

"I'll make that renegade hound pay!" swore the captain, thumping the table in emphasis.  "I
told him I'd kill him if he bothered Ruth again. By Heaven, blind though I be, I'll keep my
word!  I'll see him, and recognize him, when we meet--the lying cur!"

The outburst ceased as suddenly as it had commenced, and the captain's working features assumed
instantly their accustomed immobile serenity. Martin noticed that the hunchback's face was
sober, and that Ruth's face was white.  He judged that the captain was not indulging in vain
boasting.

"Wild Bob Carew is the jinx of the happy family," said Little Billy, after a moment.  "He is
a human devil right enough.  And the discovery that he is interested in this affair was serious
and important news for us.  I understand it took the wind out of the bosun's sails for a moment.
You see, before your conversation with the bosun in that little tavern we did not know where
you were taking the envelope.  You mentioned 'Carew' and 'Black Cruiser,' and we were enlightened.

"But the bosun failed in his undertaking, after all.  He slipped on the floor, and your agility
saved you.  You hopped a street-car and escaped the bosun's clutches.

"You didn't shake us off, though.  We picked up the bosun, and followed you in the machine,
keeping your car in sight the entire way to the Ferry Building.  During the journey, the bosun
communicated his news. At the Ferry we shot ahead of you, ditched the machine in an alleyway,
and prepared the new plan I had evolved.

"I dodged into a pawn-shop and bought a legal-size envelope and some sheets of paper.  Then
I doubled back ahead of you and awaited your coming, perching myself on a handy fire-hydrant.
The rest you know. My eloquence charmed you, and while you so kindly encircled me with your
arm, to keep me from falling, I picked your pocket of the treasure and substituted the trash
I had prepared.

"Such was our campaign against the person of Martin Blake.  You went on and entered the dive.
I dodged across to the wharf where the bosun and, I thought, Ruth, were awaiting me in the
brig's dingey.  I found the bosun, but not Ruth.  She had been too curious to remain in safety.
She had left the bosun in charge of the boat and taken up a position where she could watch
my operations."

"Not altogether curiosity--I had a scheme of my own in case you failed," broke in Ruth.

"Well, your scheme got you into a pretty fix," retorted Little Billy. "I was nervous because
of the proximity of Carew to Ruth," he continued to Martin, "and I straightway set out to look
for her.  I came abreast the Black Cruiser just in time to see a certain young gentleman in
a gray overcoat being hustled through the saloon's side entrance, by a group of suspiciously
chunky-appearing men.  I heard no outcry, but I knew that Ruth was in Carew's toils."

"I couldn't cry out," said Ruth.  "One of those yellow runts had a jiu-jitsu hold upon my neck.
My speech was paralyzed for the instant. Indeed, I could hardly walk.  They practically carried
me into Carew's presence."

"I saw you, in the hall," broke in Martin.

"I didn't see you," replied Ruth.  "Indeed, I hardly recall passing through a hall.  I came
to my senses when they brought me into a big, lighted room, where Carew sat behind a table.
I was--" the girl paused uncertainly, and Martin saw her face was white and strained--"I was
frightened.  There is no use my disguising the fact--that man terrifies me.  He is--he is----"

"He is a scoundrel!" exploded Captain Dabney.

"Yes, but a courageous and resourceful scoundrel," commented Little Billy.  He turned to Martin
and continued: "Bob Carew is not a new acquaintance of ours.  We have had trouble with him
before.  He is, er----"

"He is possessed of the idea that he loves me," Ruth quietly continued Little Billy's stammering
words.  "And he is a man who acts upon his ideas.  He has made my life miserable for four years.
Oh, I am afraid of that man!  He is so determined and ruthless.  And I would rather be dead
than mated with that heartless wretch!"

"Aye, and I would rather see you dead," commented Captain Dabney. "Carew's life smells to heaven.
He is more odorous than those yellow men who own him."

"If you knew the Pacific, you would know Carew," explained Little Billy to Martin.  "He is
the best and least favorably known blackleg between the two poles.  He is an Englishman--the
cast-off son of some noble house, I believe.  And he is a cruel, treacherous, brave, and cunning
beast!  No other words fit him.  Add to that a really beautiful body, a brazen gall, and a
well-bred and suave carriage, and you have Wild Bob. He has an apt nickname--'Wild Bob.'

"The man has come through more wild, disreputable escapades than any other three men afloat.
He has robbed right and left all over the Pacific.  Half the island capitals are closed to
him.  He robbed the captain, here, when the captain first knew and trusted him.  Two years
ago, his schooner the Aileen was confiscated by the United States government for opium-running
into California.  Since that time he has been employed on shares by the same syndicate of Japs
who have bought the captain's furs.  They gave him the Yezo, which he renamed the Dawn, the
fastest little schooner in the north and south Pacific, and he has been poaching seal for them,
up north."

"Aye, and next year he would have ruined my trade, had not their spy cleared out with your
secret," rumbled the captain.

"Yes, I have no doubt those gentlemen in Hakodate placed Ichi aboard to spy out our trading
secrets," assented Little Billy.  "And Ichi's learning of the million in ambergris awaiting
an owner up there in Bering Sea upset their little plan.  Ichi fled to Frisco, instead of to
Japan, as we thought.  He knew Carew and the schooner were in Frisco, and I suppose he turned
to Smatt for assistance in deciphering the code, and also in preparing the Dawn for sea.  Carew
could not have attended to that personally.  He has to keep under cover in United States' territory.
I hazard the guess, Blake, that you are not acquainted with all the activities of Mr. Smatt?"

"No," admitted Martin.  "Smatt is a very secretive man.  All I know of his affairs I learned
from handling his court papers; but I know he has many interests I am entirely ignorant of.
For instance, I did not know what brought Dr. Ichi to the office, though he and Smatt were
very chummy.  I thought it was business connected with the Nippon Trading Company.  Smatt is
American counsel for a Japanese firm of that name. I never heard of the Dawn, nor of Carew,
before yesterday."

"I guess we are better posted concerning your former employer than you, yourself," informed
Little Billy.  "Smatt's name is a byword with the Pacific traders--the shrewd old spider! 
'Nippon Trading Company' is the same syndicate we have done business with; and those yellow
financiers of Hakodate and Tokyo have many irons in the fire besides the fur iron.  Opium and
coolie smuggling into California--both very profitable.  And old Smatt looks after their American
interests, fixes officials, keeps them clear of the law.  It was Smatt who rescued Carew two
years ago.

"I have no doubt that immediately on receipt of Ichi's intelligence, Smatt set about outfitting
Carew for a trip to Fire Mountain.  But I don't know whether the attempted shanghaiing of Ruth
was premeditated or not.  Of course, they knew of our presence in the port, and they may have
been waiting for a chance to pick up Ruth--aside from Carew's mad infatuation, they may have
expected to force from Ruth the latitude and longitude of Fire Mountain.  I would not put a
planned kidnaping beyond them.  But it doesn't seem probable in the light of our undisturbed
efforts to filch the code from you."

"No, I am sure my capture was not the result of forethought," stated Ruth.  "I think they just
noticed me standing steadfastly in the same position, just across the street from their rendezvous,
and naturally they concluded I was a spy of some sort.  Indeed, Carew's exclamation, when they
brought me before him, is convincing proof that he did not know whom his men had bagged.  'My
word, it is my spitfire, Ruth!' he cried.  I acted the spitfire, too, and I am afraid I said
some very unladylike things to him.  But he only laughed in high glee.  I was horribly frightened,
though I took care he didn't suspect it.  I know he meant to take me to sea with him.

"I only faced him for a few moments.  There was an interruption from the hall, a banging and
a knocking----"

"I did that, kicking a door," said Martin.

"I thought it was Little Billy, also captured," went on Ruth.  "I was desperate.  And Carew
had me thrust into that other room, and the door secured upon me.  I heard a commotion and
quarreling without, and somebody was thrown into the room next to me.  I thought it was Billy,
and I tried to communicate by raps.  You know, Billy and I have become quite expert in the
use of that code; we practised on the passage up from the islands.  You could not answer me,
so I knew it was not Little Billy who had been imprisoned in the next room.  I waited patiently
and fearfully, until Billy burst open the window."

"Yes, we didn't lose any time starting our rescue," added Little Billy. "When I saw them haul
Ruth into the house, I rushed back to the boat and told the bosun.  We reconnoitered.  We saw
a taxi drive up in front of the saloon, and Carew storm out, and drive off."

"I guess he was bound to see Smatt about the blank sheets of paper in the envelope," said Martin.
"I swore up and down that they had been placed there by Smatt."

"Yes, we guessed as much," responded Little Billy.  "Well, we encircled the building, discovered
that back shed, and decided to try and force entrance from the rear.  I hustled back to where
we had left our automobile, and got a small steel bar from the tool-box.  When I rejoined the
bosun, we mounted to the roof of the shed and tackled the windows.

"Luck was with us.  You separate prisoners were in the rear of the house.  We had a narrow
squeak of it, though.  Wild Bob returned before we had freed Ruth--that was that engine noise
that startled us, Martin--and Wild Bob lived up to his reputation by that vicious pursuit he
gave us.

"We won aboard safely, yanked up the hook and slipped out with the tide, without waiting for
pilot or clearance.  And so--well, now you know all.  Remains nothing but for us to extend
you a formal welcome to the bosom of the happy family."

Martin became suddenly aware that the recital was ended, and that three unlike, friendly faces
were beaming upon him with smiling lips. Unconsciously, as he had followed the course of the
tale with absorbed interest, he had lost sight of the fact of his own intimate connection with
the narrated events.  He had seemed to be a listener to an interesting fiction.  His old habit
of identifying himself with the characters in the tales he read had mastered him.  Little Billy's
recountal, and his own responses and interjections, all seemed part of a melodrama which, played
out, would vanish and leave him secure in his accustomed law-abiding world.

Now he suddenly realized that the melodrama was real, that the first act only was ended, and
that the last was obscured in the future.

The day had been replete with shocks, but the greatest shock was this, when Martin finally
and completely realized that the even course of his life had been rudely and permanently changed,
that he had been plucked out of his humdrum niche and cast willy-nilly into this violent drama
by sportive circumstance.  The tumultuous incidents of the previous night arrayed themselves
in his mind with something of their true perspective.

He touched his head, and felt the bandage about the forgotten wound. He became more keenly
conscious of his surroundings--the unfamiliar furnishings of the cabin, the careened table,
the motion of the ship that had at first disturbed and now soothed him, the measured footfalls
of the boatswain, overhead, the sough of the wind aloft.

He looked with fresh eyes upon his companions.  They too were actors in the play--the forceful
blind man, the lovable cripple, and this blooming, merry-eyed girl whose every glance sent
a strange thrill through his being.  They were his partners, his shipmates!  He was committed
with them to this adventure, and he was glad.  They, too, seemed glad, for they were smiling
a welcome.

"Of course, Martin, we feel rather diffident before you," spoke up Little Billy.  "We know
it is an outrage, this causing you to lose your comfortable berth ashore, and----"

"Say no more about it," interrupted Martin.  "You had sufficient provocation for all your actions.
And really, believe me, I am very glad I fell in with you.  I am glad to be here.  I have wanted
to go to sea all my life.  We are going to Fire Mountain now, aren't we?"

"That's the spirit!" cried the captain heartily.  "And you will not lose by your joining us,
lad.  Even if this venture prove a failure, there is still a mighty good living to be picked
up on the Pacific."

"We are a sort of coöperative association," explained Ruth.  "We work on shares; something
like the whaleman's lay, though more generous.  Of course, we pay straight wages to the hands
forward.  But we of the afterguard work this way: After all expenses of a voyage have been
paid, the captain as master and owner takes fifty per cent. of the net profits.  The remaining
fifty per cent. is divided among the rest of us, not according to rank but pro rata.  We want
you to join the partnership.  You are to share equally with Billy, the bosun, and myself. 
And if we really find this stuff on Fire Mountain, your share will come to a neat fortune.
No, don't start protesting--of course you are entitled to it."

"And don't commence counting your chickens before they are hatched," admonished Little Billy.
"It is quite on the cards that we will reach Fire Mountain to discover Carew ahead of us. 
Or somebody else may have happened upon the stuff during the twenty-five years since Winters
died.  The last is not probable, but the first is, at least, possible. It will not do for us
to rest in false security.  Carew and his backers are sure to have a try for that million on
Fire Mountain."

"But he does not know the island's position.  I am sure of that!" objected Ruth.

"But he does know Bering Sea, almost as well as I," spoke up Captain Dabney.  "And he knows
the particular corner of Bering we are bound for.  No--Billy is right.  We must not imagine
the Dawn isn't on our heels, even now.  In any event, he would be setting out for the Kuriles
to pick up the seal-herds, about this time; and, knowing Carew as we do, we may prophesy that
he will try to find our island.  Indeed, the man may have already run across Fire Mountain
during his excursions in those waters--he may know its position as well as we do.  He'll try
to poach on our preserve, no fear.

"That ambergris would represent the profits of a score of seal-raids--and besides, there is
you, Ruth, drawing him like a lodestone.  His attempt to shanghai you, back there in Frisco,
shows the temper of the man.  If we meet the Dawn up north, and I have a hunch we shall meet
her, we want to keep our eyes open.  Meanwhile, we want to make a smart passage, and get there
first, and away.  We want to carry on--by the Lord, crack on to the limit!"

"If it has come to a race, Carew's schooner has the heels of us," observed Little Billy.

"Yes, the Dawn is the better sailer," reluctantly admitted the captain.  "If the Cohasset were
ten years younger, I wouldn't admit it, but the old girl isn't quite as limber as she used
to be.  But the log line isn't everything in an ocean race.  I know Bob Carew is a good seaman,
but I'll show him a trick or two this passage, for all that I'm a blind man!"

"I hope we don't meet him up north.  I am afraid," muttered Ruth.

"But haven't you considered that the police may have grabbed Carew, and the rest of that gang,
for their part in that street fight?" broke in Martin.  "Of course, I didn't see the finish
of that affair, but I remember that I saw the police coming just before I fell."

"The police!  Lay Carew by the heels!"  The captain shook his head. "No such good luck, I'm
afraid.  Trust Carew to win clear of the police every time."

"And if they did grab him, you may trust Lawyer Smatt to have procured his release, at least
upon bail, ere now.  There is the hope, of course, that when you, Martin, shied that gun into
his face, he was badly injured," said Little Billy.

"Oh, I hope not!" ejaculated Martin.

"We hope so," went on Little Billy.  "If you had killed him, you would have rendered mankind
a service.  No such luck, though--the devil never fails to look after his own.  He may not
have even been stunned.  The bosun did not see what happened after you fell--he picked you
up and turned tail and ran for it.  But I have no doubt Carew's men gathered up their leader
and made off ahead of the law's coming.  Carew is too much the fox not to have had a getaway
prepared; and the clearance we dumped off the Farallones showed that he had the Dawn ready
for sea. I'll wager we didn't beat him out through the Gate by many hours!"

"I suppose the police are looking for us?" ventured Martin.

"Not likely," assured the other.  "We are safe away, at any rate.  But I doubt if they have
even heard of the Cohasset.  The denizens of that groggery would have given no evidence against
us--they are themselves too deeply implicated.  Also, shooting affrays are common enough on
the Frisco waterfront, even gunfights of such magnitude as we indulged in.  The police will
forget all about it within a week's time.

"Of course, if we had left you behind, to be arrested, the consequences might have been serious
enough for you, providing you did not have money or influence.  That is the main reason we
brought you to sea with us.  But as it is, a dead or wounded Jap does not amount to much in
Frisco, and the affair will have slipped men's minds long ere we see Market Street again."

"But--I think I killed that man, Spulvedo!" urged Martin, with a qualm at the recollection.

"A good job if you did," was the reply.  "He was a notorious scoundrel. If you snuffed him
out, I suspect the police would feel inclined to vote you a medal.  But don't feel badly about
that incident, Blake. Remember, you dropped him in self-defense."

"Gentlemen!" broke in Ruth suddenly.  "We will have to adjourn this meeting till another time.
Seven bells went some time ago.  I have just time to get my coffee and relieve the bosun by
midnight."

"What--the watch gone!" cried the captain.  "But, lass, you have had no rest."

"Small matter," assented the girl, rising.  "I'll make up for it.  Is there any change in course,
captain?"

"No, make all the westing we can," said the captain.  "If this breeze will only hold a couple
of days longer, we'll pick up the trades.  Then for the passage!"

"But--a second!" exclaimed Little Billy.  "We have not yet assigned our new brother to his
duties.  You know, Blake, there are no drones in the happy family.  Now, I suggest, you are
eminently qualified to assist the hard-driven steward."

A hearty laugh from the girl and the old man checked the hunchback's speech.

"No, you are not going to sluff your job upon poor Mr. Blake's shoulders!" cried Ruth.  "That
is--unless he wishes to become a steward."

"I want to be a sailor," Martin asserted emphatically.

"Well said, lad--I know you have mettle," commented Captain Dabney. "But it means work.  You
cannot learn a sailor's work by pacing a poop-deck."

"I am more than willing to work--common sailor work," said Martin.

"Well, we'll assign you to a watch," said the old man.  "Of course, you will live aft.  Keep
your present berth with Billy.  You had better join the starboard watch, I think.  The bosun
is a great hand to break in a greenhorn."

But Martin objected to this disposition.  He was watching Ruth.  She was buttoning her pea-coat
around her throat, preparatory to braving the raw night.  There was, he dared to think, a welcome
twinkle, a meaning message, in the sidewise glance she shot at him.

"I would rather be in the mate's watch," said Martin.

The captain grinned, Little Billy chuckled and muttered something about a "sheep to the slaughter,"
and the mate rewarded him with a flash of white teeth.

"I'll be glad to have you in my watch," she said.  "But remember--it is all work and no play!
I keep strict discipline in my watch!"

Martin then proposed to commence straightway his seaman's career, by standing the impending
watch, by accompanying Ruth on deck.  Thereupon his officer voiced her first command:

"I don't want you blundering about the decks to-night with that sore head.  Time enough for
you to start in the morning; after breakfast I'll examine the wound, and if it looks well I'll
turn you to.  Also, you need to visit the slop-chest."  She pointed to his once natty, now
bedraggled, business suit.  "You are hardly dressed for facing weather. Billy will outfit you
in the morning.  Meanwhile, turn in and sleep."

CHAPTER XII

THE PASSAGE

It was the night of April 29, 1915, that Martin Blake, clerk, sat at the Cohasset's cabin table
and heard the tale of Fire Mountain.  It was on the morning of July 6, 1915, that Martin Blake,
seaman, bent over the Cohasset's foreroyal yardarm and fisted the canvas, with the shrill whistle
of the squall in his ears.

The interim had fashioned a new Martin Blake.  In the bronzed and active figure, dungaree clad,
sheath-knife on hip, who so casually balanced himself on the swaying foot-rope, there was little
in common, so far as outward appearance went, with the dapper, white-faced clerk of yore.

He completed furling the sail.  Then he straightened and swept the sea with keen, puckered
eyes.  It was a scrutiny that was rewarded.  Ahead, across the horizon sky, floated a dark
smudge, like the smoke-trail of a steamer, and beneath it was a black speck.  It was no ship,
but land, he knew.  It was the expected landfall, the volcanic island, there ahead, and he,
of all of the ship's company, first perceived it from his lofty perch.

He sent the welcome hail to the deck below----

"Land ho!"

He leaned over the lee yard-arm, grasped a back-stay, and commenced a rapid and precipitous
descent to the deck.  A few months before, he would have descended laboriously and fearfully
by way of the shrouds; sliding down a backstay would then have rubbed his palms raw, and visited
giddiness upon him.  But now his hands were rope calloused, and his wits height proof.  He
was now the equal, for agility and daring, with any man on the ship.  He had won, without much
trouble, a seaman's niche on the ship.

In truth, Martin was to the life born, and he took to the sea like a duck to water.  He won
quickly through the inevitable series of mishaps that rubbed the greenhorn mark away; and he
gleefully measured his progress by his ever-growing ability to outpull, outclimb, and outdare
the polyglot denizens of the brigantine's forecastle.

He had expert coaching to urge his education on apace.  He knew the many ropes and their various
offices before he was two weeks on board; and he was able to move about aloft, by day or night,
quite fearlessly. By the end of the first month he was standing his regular wheel trick. And,
as the weeks passed, he gained more than a cursory knowledge of the leverages and wind surfaces
that controlled and propelled his little floating world.

He applied himself earnestly to master his new craft.  It was the life he had lusted for, and
the mere physical spaciousness of his new outlook was a delight.  He contrasted it with his
former city-cramped, office-ridden existence.

He rejoiced openly as each day lengthened the distance between him and his former slavery.
On the very first day he had mounted to the deck to commence work, the morning after the meeting
in the cabin, he had enacted a ceremony that, to his own rollicking mind, placed a definite
period to his old life.  He came on deck bravely bedecked in his new slop-chest clothes, a
suit of shiny, unstained dungarees.

He held carefully in his hands a black derby hat, and a starched collar of the "choker" variety.
He carried the articles to the ship's side and cast them into the sea.  Then he declaimed his
freedom.

"They were the uniform of my servitude--badges of my clerkhood!  I have finished with them.
Into the ocean they go!  Now--ho for the life on the billowy wave!"

"Very good!" the mate applauded his act and words.  Her next words were an incisive and frosty
command.  "You may commence at once your life on the billowy wave!  Go for'rd and stand by
with the watch!"

Martin went forward, and he began to learn the why and wherefore of things in his new world.
He learned to jump to an order called out by that baffling and entrancing person aft, learned
to haul in unison, to laugh at hard knocks and grin at pain.

He learned to cultivate humility, and to mount the poop on the lee side when duty took him
there.  He learned the rigid etiquette of the sea, and addressed that blooming, desirable woman
with the formal prefix, "mister."

His body toughened, his mind broadened, his soul expanded.  But his heart also expanded, and
it was unruly.  Ruth was such a jolly chum--off duty.  On duty, she was a martinet.  Below,
she was the merry life of the "happy family."  On deck, she lorded it haughtily from the high
place of the poop, and answered to the name of "mister"!

The Cohasset, Martin discovered, was manned by a total of eighteen souls.  Besides the five
persons aft, there were a sailmaker, a carpenter, a Chinese cook and ten forecastle hands.
His first impression--that the crew was composed of wild men--was partially borne out.  Of
the ten men in the forecastle, but four were Caucasian--two Portuguese from the Azores, a Finn
and an Australian--and the quartet were almost as outlandish in their appearance as the other
six of the crew.

The remaining six were foregathered from the length and breadth of the Pacific.  There was
a Maori from New Zealand, a Koriak tribesman from Kamchatka, two Kanakas, a stray from Ponape,
and an Aleut.  The six natives, Martin discovered, had all been with the ship for years, were
old retainers of Captain Dabney.  The four white men, and the cook, who rejoiced in the name
of Charley Bo Yip, had been newly shipped in San Francisco.

Martin's watchmates were five of the natives.  Martin suspected they composed the mate's watch
because they were all old, tractable hands. They were the Maori, Rimoa, a strapping, middle-aged
man, Oomak, the Koriak, the man with the tattooed and scarified face whom Martin had seen at
the wheel the first day at sea, the two Kanakas, and the Aleut. They talked to each other,
he found, in a strange pidgin--a speech composed mainly of verbs and profanity, a language
that would have shocked a purist to a premature grave.  But Martin found his watchmates to
be a brave, capable, though rather silent group.

Martin's initiation into the joys of sea life was a strenuous one.  The gale that had sent
the Cohasset flying from San Francisco, died out, as Ruth had predicted.  Followed a couple
of days of calm.

Then came another heavy wind, in the boatswain's words, "a snortin' norther," and for three
days Martin's watches on deck were cold, wet and hazardous.  He blindly followed his watchmates
over lurching, slippery decks, in obedience to unintelligible orders.  He was rolled about
by shipped seas, and his new oilskins received a stern baptism. His clerk's hands became raw
and swollen from hauling on wet ropes, his unaccustomed muscles ached cruelly, the sea water
smarted the half-healed wound on his head, now covered with a strip of plaster. But he stood
the gaff, and worked on.  And he was warmly conscious of the unspoken approval of both forecastle
and cabin.

During that time of stress he learned something of the sailor's game of carrying on of sail.
The wind was fair, and by the blind captain's orders, they held on to every bit of canvas the
spars would stand.  The little vessel rushed madly through the black, howling nights, and the
leaden, fierce days, with every timber protesting the strain, and every piece of cordage adding
its shrill, thrummed note to the storm's mighty symphony.

During that time Martin first proved his mettle.  He fought down his coward fears, and for
the first time ventured aloft, feeling his way through the pitch-black night to the reeling
yard-arm, to battle, with his watch, the heavy, threshing sail that required reefing.  After
the test, when he came below to the warm cabin, he thrilled to the core at his officer's curt
praise.

"You'll do!" she muttered in his ear.

But it was not all storm and battle.  Quite the reverse.  The calm succeeded the storm.  Martin
came on deck one morning to view a bright sky and a sea of undulating glass.  Astern, above
the horizon, were fleecy clouds--they afterwards rode high, and became his friends, those mares'
tails--and out of that horizon, from the northeast, came occasional light puffs of wind.

Captain Dabney, pacing his familiar poop with firm, sure steps, turned his sightless face constantly
to those puffs.  There was upon the ship an air of expectancy.  And that afternoon Martin beheld
an exhibition of the old man's sea-canniness; he suddenly stopped his steady pacing, stood
motionless a moment, sniffing of the air astern, and then wheeled upon Ruth.

"To the braces, mister!  Here she comes!" he snapped.

She came with tentative, caressing puffs at first, each one a little stronger than the last.
Then, with a sigh, a dark blue ripple dancing before her, she arrived, enveloped and passed them.

The brig trembled to the embrace and careened gently, as if nestling into a beloved's arms.
About the decks were smiling faces and joyous shouts, and the sails were trimmed with a swinging
chantey.  For the Cohasset had picked up the northeast trades.

That night the wind blew, and the next day, and the next, and the next week, and the weeks
following.  Ever strong and fresh, out of the northeast, came the mighty trade-wind.  Nine
knots, ten knots, eleven knots--the brig foamed before it, into the southwest, edging eleven
knots--the brig foamed before it, into the southwest, edging away always to the westward.

Every sail was spread.  Sails were even improvised to supplement the vast press the ship carried,
a balloon jib for the bows, and a triangular piece of canvas that the boatswain labored over,
and which he spread above the square topsails on the main.  He was mightily proud of his handicraft,
and walked about, rubbing his huge hands and gazing up at the little sail.

"An inwention o' my own," he proudly confided to Martin.  "Swiggle me stiff, if the Flyin'
Cloud 'as anything on us, for we've rigged a bloody moons'il, says I."

Day by day the air grew warmer, as they neared the tropics.  One day they sighted a school
of skimming flying fish; that night several flew on board and were delivered into Charley Bo
Yip's ready hands, and Martin feasted for the first time upon that dainty morsel.  Bonito and
porpoise played about the bows.

Martin could not at first understand how a ship that was bound for a distant corner of the
cold Bering Sea came to be sailing into the tropics.  But the boatswain enlightened him.

"It's a case o' the longest way being the shortest, lad.  The winds, says I.  We 'ave to make
a 'alf circle to the south, using these trades, to make the Siberian coast this time o' year.
We're makin' a good passage--swiggle me, if Carew an' his Dawn 'ave won past, the way we're
sailin'!  And the old man reckons seventy days, outside, afore 'e makes 'is landfall o' Fire
Mountain.  Coming 'ome, now, will be different.  We'll sail the great circle, the course the
mail-boats follow, an' we'll likely make the passage in 'alf the time.  We'll run the easting
down, up there in the 'igh latitudes with the westerlies be'ind us."

They were bright, sunny days, those trade-wind days, and wonderful nights.  The ship practically
sailed herself.  A slackening and tightening of sheets, night and morning, and a watch-end
trimming of yards, was all the labor required of the crew.

So, regular shipboard work, and Martin's education, went forward. "Chips" plied his cunning
hand outside his workshop door; "Sails" spread his work upon the deck abaft the house.

A crusty, talkative, kind-hearted fellow was Sails.  He was an old Scot, named MacLean; and
the native burr in his speech had been softened by many years of roving.  He always took particular
pains to inform any listener that he was a MacLean, and that the Clan MacLean was beyond doubt
the foremost, the oldest, and the best family that favored this wretched, hopeless world with
residence.  He hinted darkly at a villainous conspiracy that had deprived him of his estates
and lairdships in dear old Stornoway, Bonnie Scotland.  He was a pessimist of parts, and he
furnished the needed shade that made brighter Martin's carefree existence.

MacLean had followed Captain Dabney for six years--most of the crew were even longer in the
ship--and before joining the Cohasset, he had, to Martin's intense interest, made a voyage
with Wild Bob Carew.

"Och, lad, ye no ken the black heart o' the mon," he would say to Martin.  "Wild Bob!  Tis
'Black Bob' they should call the caird.  The black-hearted robber!  Aye, I sailed a voyage
wi' the deil.  Didna' he beach me wi'oot a penny o' my pay on Puka Puka, in the Marquesas?
An' didna' I stop there, marooned wi' the natives, till Captain Dabney took me off?  Forty-six,
five an' thrippence he robbed me of.

"I am a MacLean, and a Laird by rights, but I could no afoord the loss o' that siller.  Oh,
he is the proud deil!  His high stomach could no stand my plain words.  Forty quid, odd, he
owed me, but I could no hold my tongue when he raided the cutter and made off wi' the shell.
The MacLeans were ne'er pirates, ye ken.  They are honest men and kirkgoers--though I'll no
pretend in the old days they didna' lift a beastie or so.

"I talked up to Carew's face, an' told him a MacLean could no approve such work, an' I told
him the MacLeans were better folk than he, for all his high head.  Ye ken, lad, the MacLeans
are the best folk o' Scotland.  When Noah came oot the ark, 'twas the MacLeans met him and
helped him to dry land.

"On Puka Puka beach he dumped me, wi'oot my dunnage, and wi'oot a cent o' the siller was due
me.  Och, he is a bad mon, yon Carew, wi' many a mon's blood on his hands!  He has sold his
soul to the deil, and Old Nick saves his own.  He is a wild mon wi' women, and he is mad aboot
the sweet lassie aft.  Didna' he try to make off wi' her in Dutch Harbor, three years ago?
And didna' the old mon stop him wi' a bullet through the shoulder?  And now he tries again
in Frisco!

"The lass blooms fairer each day--and Carew's madness grows.  Ye'll meet him again, lad, if
you stay wi' the ship.  Wi' Old Nick to help him, 'tis black fortune he'll bring to the lass,
ye'll see."  And Sails would croak out dismal prophecies concerning Wild Bob Carew's future
activities, so long as Martin would listen.

Indeed, the adventurer of the schooner Dawn was ever present in the thoughts of the brig's
complement.  He was a real and menacing shadow; even Martin was affected by the lowering cloud.
The old hands in the crew all knew him personally, and knew of his mad infatuation for their
beloved mate.  In the cabin, it was accepted that he would cross their path again, though it
was hoped that Fire Mountain would be reached and the treasure secured before that event occurred.
But, save for an ever-growing indignation against the haughty Englishman, for daring to aspire
to Ruth LeMoyne's hand, Martin gave the matter small thought; he was too busy living the moment.

Concurrent with his education in seamanship, progressed Martin's instruction in the subtle
and disquieting game of hearts.  Ruth attended to this particular instruction unconsciously,
perhaps, but none the less effectively.

Of course, it was inevitable.  When a romantic-minded young man aids in the thrilling rescue
of an imprisoned maid, that young man is going to look upon that young woman with more than
passing interest.  When the maid in question happens to be extremely pretty, his interest is
naturally enhanced.  When he is thrown into a close shipboard intimacy with her, and discovers
her to be at once an exacting tyrant and a jolly chum, when the maid is possessed of a strange
and exciting history, and congenial tastes, when she is not unaware of her own excellence,
and, at times, not disinclined to coquet a trifle before a young, virile male--then, the romantic
young man's blood experiences a permanent rise in temperature, and there are moments when his
heart lodges uncomfortably in his throat, and moments when it beats a devil's own tattoo upon
his ribs.

And when there are wonderful tropic nights, and bright eyes by his side that outrival the stars
overhead, and a glorious tenor voice softly singing songs of love nearby--then, the heady wine
of life works a revolution in a romantic young man's being, and in the turmoil he is accorded
his first blinding glimpse of the lover's heaven of fulfilled desire, and his first glimpse
also of the lover's hell of doubting despair.  A man, a maid, a soft, starry night upon the
water, a song of love--of course it was inevitable!

Martin's previous experience with the tender passion was not extensive. Circumstance, shyness
and fastidiousness had caused him to ignore most of the rather frequent opportunities to philander
that his good looks and lively imagination created, and upon the rare occasions when he had
paused, it was because of curiosity--a curiosity quickly sated.

Of course, he had been in love.  At twelve years he had betrothed himself to the girl who sat
across the aisle, at fifteen, he exchanged rings and vows with a lady of fourteen who lived
in the next block, at seventeen he conceived a violent affection for the merry Irish girl who
presided over his uncle's kitchen--but Norah scoffed, and remained true to the policeman on
the beat, and Martin, for a space, embraced the more violent teachings of anarchy and dreamed
with gloomy glee of setting off a dynamite bomb under a certain uniformed prop of law and order.

The uncle died, and Martin was henceforth too busy earning a living to indulge in sentimental
adventures.  After a time, as he grew to manhood and his existence became more assured, he
became a reader of stories; and unconsciously he commenced to measure the girls he met with
the entrancing heroines of his fiction.  The girls suffered by comparison, and Martin's interest
in them remained Platonic.

By degrees he became possessor of that refuge of lonely bachelorhood, an ideal--a dream girl,
compounded equally of meditation and books. She was a wonderful girl, Martin's dream girl;
she possessed all the virtues, and no faults, and she was very, very beautiful.  At first she
was a blond maid, and when she framed herself before his eyes, out of the smoke curling upward
from his pipe, she was a vision of golden tresses, and rosy cheeks, and clear blue eyes.

But then came Miss Pincher, the manicure maid, to reside at Martin's boarding-house.  Miss
Pincher's hair was very, very yellow--there were dark hints about that boarding-house board
anent royal colors coming out of drug-store bottles--and her eyes were a cold, hard blue. 
She cast her hard, bold eyes upon Martin.  She was a feminist in love. Martin fled horrified
before her determined, audacious wooing.

His blood idol was overthrown, his ideal slain.  He went to bed with the stark corpse, and
awoke to contemplate with satisfaction a new image, a brooding, soulful brunette.

Then, Martin suddenly discovered that his ideal was neither a rosy Daughter of the Dawn, nor
a tragic Queen of the Night--she was a merry-faced, neutral-tinted Sister of the Afternoon,
a girl with brown hair, so dark as to be black by night, and big brown eyes.  A girl with a
rich contralto voice that commanded or cajoled in a most distracting fashion.  A girl who commanded
respect by her mastery of a masculine profession, yet who thereby sacrificed none of her appealing
femininity.  A girl named Ruth LeMoyne.

There was nothing staid or conservative about the manner of Martin's receiving this intelligence.
It was his nature to fall in love with a hard bump, completely and without reservation.  He
recognized Ruth as the girl of his dreams the very first moment he obtained a good daylight
look at her--that is, upon the afternoon he first mounted to the Cohasset's deck, and was welcomed
by the smiling, lithesome queen of the storm.  Blonde and brunette had in that instant been
completely erased from his memory; he had recognized in the mate of the Cohasset the companion
of his fanciful hours, in every feature she was the girl of his dreams.

There are people who say that every person has his, or her, preordained mate somewhere in the
world.  They say that the true love, the big love, is only possible when these predestined
folk meet.  They say that love flames instantly at such a meeting, and that the couple will
recognize each other though the whole social scale divide them.  They say that Love will conquer
all obstacles and unite the yearning pair. They are a sentimental, optimistic lot, who thus
declaim.  Martin, when he thought the matter over, inclined to their belief.  Only--the trouble
was that Ruth did not seem to exactly recognize or welcome her predestined fate.

But there is another theory of love.  Any shiny-pated wise man will give the formula.

"Love at first sight!  Bosh!" says the wise man.  "Love is merely a strong, complex emotion
inspired in persons by propinquity plus occasion!"

Perhaps.  Certainly, the emotion Martin felt from the time he spoke his first word to Ruth
LeMoyne, was strong enough and complex enough to tinge his every thought.  And the propinquity
was close enough and piquant enough to flutter the heart of a monk--which Martin was not. And
a headlong young man like Martin Blake could be trusted to make the occasion.

He made several occasions.  His journey along Cupid's path was filled with the sign-posts of
those occasions.

Off duty, Ruth and he were boon companions, during the rather rare hours when she was not in
attendance upon the blind captain or asleep. Martin stinted himself of rest, Ruth was too old
a sailor for that.

The dog-watches, and, after they had gained the fine weather, the early hours of the first
watch, were their hours of communion.  They eagerly discussed books, plays, dreams, the sea,
their quest, and themselves. They called each other by their first names, in comradely fashion.
Oftentimes Little Billy joined them and enlivened the session with his pungent remarks, or,
on the fine evenings, treated them with wonderful, melting songs.

Martin had the uneasy feeling that Little Billy, of all the men on the ship, divined his passion
for Ruth.  He seemed to feel, also, that Little Billy was, in a sense, a rival; with a lover's
insight, he read the dumb adoration in the hunchback's eyes whenever the latter looked at,
or spoke of, the mate.

But, of course, Ruth knew what was in Martin's mind and heart.  Trust a daughter of Eve to
read the light in a man's eyes, be she ever so unpractised by experience.  It is her heritage.
Nor did Martin attempt concealment of his love for very long.  A dashing onslaught was Martin's
nature.

Ruth teased him and deftly parried his crude attempts to make the grand passion the sole topic
of their chats.  She would hold him at arm's length, and then for a swift moment drop her guard.
It would be but a trifle--a fugitive touching of shoulders, perhaps--but it would shake Martin
to his soul.

She would hold their talk to commonplaces, and then, as their hour ended, would transfix him
with a fleeting glance that seemed to bear more than a message of friendship, and he would
stand looking after her, weak and gasping, with thumping heart.

One evening they stood together on the forecastle head, watching the setting sun.  Sky and
sea, to the west, were ablaze for a brief space with ever-changing gorgeous colors.  The sheer
beauty of the scene, added to the disturbing nearness of his heart's wish, forced Martin's
rose-tinted thoughts to speech.

"I see our future there, Ruth," he said, pointing to the rioting sunset colors.  "See--that
golden, castle-shaped cloud!  We shall live there. Those orange-and-purple billows surrounding
are our broad meadows.  It is the country we are bound for, the land of happiness, and its
name is----"

"Its name is 'dreamland'!" finished Ruth, with a light laugh.  "And never will you arrive at
your voyage's end, friend Martin, for 'dreamland' is always over the horizon."

She looked directly into Martin's eyes; the brief dusk was upon them, and her face was a soft,
wavering outline, but her eyes were aglow with the gleam that set Martin's blood afire.  Her
eyes seemed to bear a message from the Ruth that lived below the surface Ruth--from the newly
stirring woman beneath the girlish breast.

It was a challenge, that brief glance.  It made Martin catch his breath.  He choked upon the
words that tried tumultuously to burst from his lips.

"Oh, Ruth, let me tell you--" he commenced.

Her laugh interrupted him again, and the eyes he looked into were again the merry, teasing
eyes of his comrade.  With her next words she wilfully misunderstood him and his allusion concerning
the sunset.

"Indeed, Martin, that cloud the sunset lightened is shaped nothing like Fire Mountain, which
is a very gloomy looking place, and one I should not like to take up residence in.  And no
bright meadows surround it--only the gray, foggy sea.  Hardly a land of happiness.  Though,
indeed, if we salvage that treasure, we will have the means, each of us, to buy the happiness
money provides."

"Confound Fire Mountain and its treasure!" exclaimed Martin.  "You know I didn't mean that,
Ruth!  I was talking figuratively, poetically, the way Little Billy talks.  I meant just you
and I, and that sunset was the symbol of our love."

But he was talking to the air.  Ruth was speeding aft, her light laughter rippling behind her.

Another night, when the brig was near the southern limit of her long traverse, they stood in
the shadow, at the break of the poop, and together scanned the splendid sky.  Ruth was the
teacher; she knew each blazing constellation, and she pointed them out for Martin's benefit.
But Martin, it must be admitted, was more interested by the pure profile revealed by a slanting
moonbeam than by the details of astronomy and his mumbled, half-conscious replies revealed
his inattention.

After a while, she gave over the lesson, and they stood silent, side by side, leaning on the
rail, captivated by the witchery of the tropic night.

The heavens were packed with the big, blazing stars of the low latitudes, and the round moon,
low on the horizon, cut the dark, quiet sea with a wide path of silver light.  Aloft, the steady
breeze hummed softly; and the ship broke her way through the water with a low, even purr, and
the sea curled away from the forefoot like an undulating silver serpent.  The wake was a lane
of moonlight, barred by golden streaks of phosphorescence.

On the ship, the decks were a patchwork of bright, eerie light and black shadow.  The bellying
sails and the woof of cordage aloft, seemed unsubstantial, like a gossamer weaving.  The quiet
ship noises, and the subdued murmur of voices from forward seemed unreal, uncanny.

The unearthly beauty of the night touched strange fancies to life in Martin's mind--he was
on a phantom ship, sailing on an unreal sea.  The desirable, disturbing presence so close to
his side enhanced his agitation.

His shoulder touched her shoulder, and he could feel the gentle rise and fall of her breast,
as she breathed.  The bodily contact made his head swim.  When she raised her head to stare
at the sky, a fugitive moonbeam caressed her face and touched her briefly with a wondrous beauty.
Her curved, parted lips were almost within reach of his own at such instants; he had but to
bend swiftly forward!  Martin was all atremble at the daring thought, and he clutched the rail
to steady himself.

Behind them, a golden voice suddenly commenced to sing an age-old song of love, "Annie Laurie."

Softly the hunchback sang; his voice seemed to melt into and become one with the hum of the
breeze aloft and the snore of the forefoot thrusting apart the waters.  It seemed to Martin
that the whole world was singing, singing of love.  His heart thumped, his breath came quickly,
pin-points of light swam before his eyes.

The girl trembled against his shoulder.  Martin leaned eagerly forward, and their eyes met.
They both stiffened at that electric contact.  His eyes were ablaze with passion, purposeful,
masterful; and in her eyes he again glimpsed the fresh-awakened woman, beckoning, elusive,
fearful.  For a brief instant they stared at each other, man and woman, souls bared.  But that
blinding moment seemed to Martin to encompass eternity.  The songster's liquid notes fell about
them, and they were enthralled.

The song ended.  Quite without conscious movement, Martin put his arms about Ruth and drew
her into a close embrace.  He pressed his hot lips to hers, and with a thrill so keen it felt
like a stab, he realized her lips returned the pressure.

It lasted but a second, this heaven.  The girl burst backward out of his embrace.  Martin's
arms fell to his sides, nerveless, and he stood panting, tongue-tied with emotion.  Nor did
he have the chance to master himself and speak the words he wished, for Ruth, with a half sob,
half laugh, turned and sped across the deck, and through the open alleyway door, into the cabin.

The next watch Ruth stood upon her dignity, and her manner was unusually haughty toward her
slave.  And the next day, in the dog-watch, he discovered that the old comradeship was fled.
She was shy and silent, and she listened to his stammered apology with averted eyes and pink ears.

When Martin attempted to supplement his apology with ardent words, she fled straightway.  And
never again during the passage did Martin find an opportunity to avow his love.  He discovered
that somehow Little Billy, or the boatswain, or Captain Dabney was always present at their
talks.  Her elusiveness made him very wretched at times.  But then, occasionally, he would
surprise her looking at him, and the light in her eyes would send him to the seventh heaven
of delight.

There came the day when the little vessel reached the southern point of the great arc she was
sailing across the Pacific.  Martin came on deck to find the bows turned northward, toward
the Bering, and the yards braced sharp to catch the slant from the dying trades.

The Cohasset raced northward, though not as swiftly as she had raced southward.  The winds
were light, though generally fair, and the brig made the most of them.

The weather grew steadily cooler; the brilliant tropics were left behind, and they entered
the gray wastes of the North Pacific.  Forward and aft were smiling faces and optimistic prophecies,
for the ship was making a record passage.  The captain's original estimate of seventy days
between departure and landfall was steadily pared by the hopeful ones.  The boatswain, especially,
was delighted.

"Seventy days!  Huh!" he declared.  "Why, swiggle me stiff, we'll take the days off that, or
my name ain't Tom 'Enery!  'Ere we are, forty-one days out, an' already we're in sight o' ice,
an' runnin' free over the nawstiest bit o' water between 'ere an' the 'Orn!  It'll be Bering
Sea afore the week out, lad!  And afore another week, we'll 'ave fetched the bloody wolcano
and got away again with that grease!  Bob Carew? Huh--the Dawn may 'ave the 'eels of us--though,
swiggle me, what with my moons'il, an' that balloon jib, I'd want a tryout afore admitting
it final--but it ain't on the cards that Carew 'as 'ad our luck with the winds.  'E's somewhere
a week or two astern o' us, I bet.  We'll 'ave the bleedin' swag, an' be 'alf way 'ome, before
'e lifts Fire Mountain--if he does know where the bloomin' place is!

"Ow, lad, just think o' all that money in a lump o' ruddy grease!  Ow, what a snorkin' fine
time I'll 'ave, when we get back to Frisco!  'Am an' eggs, an' a bottle o' wine every bloomin'
meal for a week!  Regular toff, I'll be, swiggle me--with one of them fancy girls adancin',
and one o' them longhaired blokes afiddlin' while I scoffs!"

Only old Sails declined to be heartened by bright expectations.  He wagged his gray head solemnly.

"The passage is no made till we are standing off yon Island," he warned Martin.  "Aye, well
I remember the smoking mountain.  Didna' that big, red loon aft split a new t'gan'-s'il the
very next day, wi' his crazy carrying on of sail?  Aye, I mind the place--a drear place, lad,
wi' an evil face.  I dinna like to see the lassie gang ashore there, for all the siller ye
say the stuff is worth, an' I ken well she'll be in the first boat.  'Tis a wicked place, the
fire mount, and I ha' dreamed thrice o' the feyed.  Nay, I'll tell ye no more, lad.  But do
you give no mind to yon talk o' Bob Carew being left behind.  He is the de'il's son, and the
old boy helps his own.  But keep ye a sharp eye on the lass."

No more than this half mystical jargon could Martin extract from the dour Scot.  MacLean would
shake his head and mumble that feydom brooded over the brig and hint darkly of battle and bloodshed.

That night, in the privacy of their berth, Martin mentioned MacLean's dismal croakings to Little
Billy.  He was minded to jest about the pessimist, but, to his great surprise, the hunchback
listened to his recountal with a very grave face.  But after a moment Little Billy's smile
returned, and he explained.

"Sails is a Highland Scot," he told Martin.  "Of course he is superstitious, as well as a constitutional
croaker.  He claims to be a seventh son, or something like that, and to be able to foretell
death. When he speaks of a 'feyed' man, he means one over whom he sees hovering the shadow
of death.  He didn't say who was feyed, did he?"

"No, he wouldn't talk further," answered Martin.  "What bosh!"

"Yes, of course," assented Little Billy.  "You and I, with our minds freed of superstition,
may laugh--but Sails, I think, believes in his visions.  And, to tell you the truth, your words
gave me something of a start at first.  I have known MacLean a long time, you know.  Last voyage,
he told me one day that Lomai, a Fiji boy, was feyed, and that very night Lomai fell from the
royal yard and was smashed to death on the deck.  And once before that, before I became one
of the happy family, he foretold a death to the captain.  I am glad you told me about this.
He didn't mention a name?"

"No.  Just said he had dreamed three times of the feyed," said Martin, impressed in spite of
himself.

"I'll speak to him, myself," went on Little Billy.  "Won't do any good, though.  He only tells
one person of his foresight, and he has chosen you this time.  But I wish--oh, what is wrong
with us!  Of course it is bosh!  The old grumbler has indigestion from eating too much.  I
am going to read awhile, Martin, if the light won't bother you.  Don't feel sleepy."

The hunchback clambered into his upper bunk and composed himself, book in hand.  Martin finished
his disrobing and rolled into his bunk, beneath the other.  He was tired, but he didn't go
to sleep directly. His mind was busy.  Not with thoughts of Sails and his ghostly warning--Martin
had not been long enough at sea to be tinged with the sailor's inevitable superstition, and
he was stanchly skeptical of supernatural warnings.  Martin lay awake thinking of the deformed
little man, ostensibly reading, a few feet above him.

For some nights, now, the hunchback had read late of nights, because he "didn't feel sleepy."
Daily, Little Billy's lean face grew more lined and aged; in the past week his appearance had
taken on a half-score years.  He still retained his smile, but it was even wan at times.  In
his eyes lurked misery.  Martin knew that the books he took to bed were mainly a subterfuge
to enable Little Billy to keep the light burning. For Little Billy was waging a battle with
his ancient enemy, and he had grown afraid of the dark.

A week before, he had abruptly said to Martin:

"I gave the key of the medicine-chest to Ruth today.  I won't be able to get at that booze,
anyway."  To Martin's startled look, he added: "I want you to know, so you won't be surprised
by the capers I am liable to cut for a while.  You see, I am dancing to old Fiddler Booze's
tune.  I want to go on a drunk--every part of me craves alcohol.  And I am determined to keep
sober.

"Oh, it is nothing to startle you, Martin.  I never get violent.  Only, I'll be in plain hell
for a couple of weeks.  Then the craving will go away, to return at ever shorter intervals,
until I do get ashore on a good bust.  No, I'll keep sober till I reach shore again--whatever
comes.  No raiding the bosun's locker for shellac or wood-alcohol this voyage."

"Good Lord, you wouldn't do that!" exclaimed Martin.

"Oh, yes--I did it once," confessed Little Billy easily.  "Indeed, a swig of shellac punch
is drink for the gods; my very soul writhes now at the thought of it.  But, I'll admit, the
wood-alcohol beverage conceals complications.  It was the captain, and his little stomach-pump,
that brought me to that time.  But no more of such frolicking on board ship.  That episode
occurred during my first year with Captain Dabney.  Never since have I succumbed to the craving
while at sea.  Oh, I'll be all right this time--only don't be startled if you hear me talking
to myself, or roaming about in the middle of the night."

That was all that passed between them.  But during the days following Martin's eyes often rested
on the other with curiosity and sympathy. It was a new experience for Martin, to be room-mated
with a dipsomaniac, and besides Little Billy had grown to be a very dear friend, indeed.  Everybody
on the ship loved the sunny hunchback.

Little Billy's happy face grew bleak, and many fine lines appeared about the corners of his
eyes and mouth.  He was suffering keenly, Martin knew.  Even now, he could hear the uneasy,
labored breathing of the man in the bunk above.

It was a strange, changeable, eager face, Little Billy had.  It seemed to vary in age according
to the hunchback's mood; these days he looked forty, but Martin had seen him appear a youthful
twenty during an exceptionally happy moment.  Actually, Martin learned during the passage,
Little Billy Corcoran's age was thirty-one.

He learned, moreover, that Little Billy was the son, and sole surviving relative, of Judge
Corcoran, a famous California politician in his day. Judge Corcoran had been a noted "good
fellow" and a famous man with the bottle.  And his son was a hunchback and a dipsomaniac. 
Little Billy was blessed with a fine mind, and he had taken his degree at Yale, but throughout
his hectic life the thirst he was born with proved his undoing.

"I am an oddity among a nation of self-made men," Little Billy once told Martin.  "They all
commenced at the bottom and ascended fortune's ladder, whereas I started at the top and descended.
And what a descent!  I hit every rung of that ladder with a heavy bump, and jarred Old Lady
Grundy every time.  I was the crying scandal, the horrible example, of my native heath.  That
old rogue, my father, used to boast that he never got drunk--I used to boast that I never got
sober. Finally, I bumped my last bump and found myself at the bottom.  And there I stayed,
until Captain Dabney, and the dear girl, pulled me out of the mire."

Almost literally true, this last, for Martin learned that five years before, Captain Dabney
had salvaged Little Billy off the beach at Suva, a dreadful scarecrow of a man, and Ruth's
nursing, and the clean sea life, had built a new William Corcoran.  But the appetite for the
drink was uneradicable, and the genial hunchback's life was a series of losing battles with
his hereditary curse.

But the boatswain was proved a poor prophet.  Not that week, nor the next, did they reach Fire
Mountain.  The Cohasset crossed the path of the Orient mail-packets, the great circle sailers,
and they entered their last stretch of Pacific sailing, above the forty-eighth parallel.

Captain Dabney's objective was the little-used gateway to the Bering that lies between Copper
Island and the outlying Aleuts.  They sailed upon a wild and desolate waste of leaden sea;
a sea shrouded frequently with fog, and plentifully populated with those shipmen's horrors,
foot-loose icebergs.  And their fair sailing abruptly terminated.

It began in the space of a watch.  The glass tumbled, the wind hauled around to foul, and it
began to blow viciously.  For days they rode hove to.

That was but the beginning.  For weeks, they obtained only an occasional favorable slant of
wind, and these, as often as not, in the shape of short, sharp gales.  They made the most of
them; the blind man on the poop coached cannily, and Ruth and the boatswain carried on to the
limit.

Martin, once again, as in the days leaving San Francisco, saw the smother of canvas fill the
decks with water.  But such sailing was rare, and of short duration.  Always, succeeding, came
the heavy slap in the face from the fierce wind god of the North.

Martin labored mightily, in company with his fellows, it being a constant round of "reef, shake
out, and come about."  The days were sharp, and the nights bitter cold--though, as they won
northward, and the season advanced, the days grew steadily longer.

Went glimmering, as the weeks passed, the high hopes of a record passage.  Disappeared, also,
the assurance of recovering the treasure. The shadow of Wild Bob Carew fell between them and
their destination.

When one day the capricious wind drove them fairly past Copper Island, and they plunged into
the foggy, ill-charted reaches of the Bering, their jubilation was tempered with a note of
pessimism.  They debated, in the Cohasset's cabin, whether the adventurer of the Dawn had been
beforehand; and Captain Dabney discussed his plans for proceeding on to the Kamchatka coast
for trading in case they discovered Fire Mountain to be despoiled.

The situation, it seemed to Martin, resolved itself to this: If Carew knew the latitude and
longitude of the smoking mountain--and being familiar with the Bering Sea, all hands admitted
that he might well know it--the ambergris was most certainly lost to them, unless, as was most
unlikely, the Dawn had had even worse luck with the weather than the Cohasset.  But if Carew
did not know Fire Mountain's location, they had a chance, though Carew was probably cruising
adjacent waters, on the lookout for them--and if they encountered him, they might prepare to
resist a piracy.

Martin, in truth, had a secret hope that they might encounter Carew's schooner.  He had a healthy
lust for trouble and a scorn bred of ignorance for the Japanese crew of the Dawn.  He harbored
a grudge against the Dawn's redoubtable skipper.  Ruth was the kernel of that grudge.

And, oddly enough, he had a queer companion also wishing they might be compelled to battle
the Japanese.  It was none other than Charley Bo Yip, the cook.

Yip hated the Japanese with a furious hatred, if the garbled words that dropped from his smiling
lips were to be believed.  He hated them individually and nationally.  And he sharpened, ostentatiously,
a meat-cleaver, and proclaimed his intention of procuring a Jap's head as a trophy, should
they have trouble.

"Me China boy, all same Melican," he told Martin, as he industriously turned the grindstone
beneath the cleaver's edge.  "Me like all same lepublic--me fight like devil all same time
when China war.  Now Jap he come take China.  No good.  Me kill um Jap.  Velly good.  All same
chop um head, chop, chop!"

And Yip waved his cleaver over his head, and a seraphic smile lighted his bland, unwarlike face.

At last, on the sixty-eighth day of the passage, Martin came on deck for the morning watch
and found the vessel bouncing along under unaccustomed blue skies, and with a fair breeze.
The boatswain went below, swiggling himself very stiff with the fervent hope that no bleeding
Jonah would interrupt the course before the next eight bells, and Ruth took up an expectant
watch with the glasses handy.  Captain Dabney also kept the deck.  Martin knew the landfall
was expected.

At the middle of the watch, a squall sent Martin racing aloft to furl the royal.  It was then
that his sea-sharpened sight raised the land.

His hail to the deck aroused the ship.  By the time he had finished his descent from aloft,
all hands were at the rail, endeavoring each to pick up the distant speck.

Four bells had gone while he was aloft, and he strode aft to take his wheel.  As he passed
along the poop, he heard Ruth say--

"If the breeze holds, we'll be inside in a couple of hours."

Captain Dabney turned his old, sea-wise face to the wind.  After a moment, he shook his head.

"I feel fog," he said.

CHAPTER XIII

FIRE MOUNTAIN

Within the hour, Captain Dabney's words bore fruit.  The spanking ten-knot breeze dropped abruptly
to a gentle four-knot power.  Then in the twinkling of an eye, as it were, the fog enveloped them.

Martin, at the wheel, was straining his eyes, trying to make out the land ahead that he had
seen from aloft.  Abruptly before his eyes rose a wall of opaque gray.

It was a typical Smoky Sea fog, a wet, dense, Bering blanket.  From his station near the stern,
Martin could not see the rail at the break of the poop, could hardly, indeed, discern objects
a dozen paces distant. Familiar figures, entering his circle of vision, loomed gigantic and
grotesque.  The Cohasset sailed over a ghostly sea, whose quiet was broken only by the harsh
squawking of sea-birds flying high overhead.

Of recent weeks, Martin had become accustomed to fog.  But there was about this fog a peculiarity
foreign to his experience, though he had been informed during the cabin talks of the frequent
occurrence of this particular brand of mist in these waters.  For, though Martin, standing
on deck, was surrounded by an impervious wall of fog that pressed upon him, though he could
not see the water overside or forward for a quarter of the little vessel's length, yet he could
bend back his head and see quite plainly the round ball of the sun glowing dully through the
whitening mist overhead.

He understood the wherefor.  The fog was a low-lying bank, and thirty feet or so above his
head it ended.  He could not, from the wheel, distinguish the upper hamper, but he knew the
topmasts were free of the mist that shrouded the deck.  Presently, from overhead, and ghostily
piercing the gray veil, came Ruth's clear hail.  She ordered him to shift the course a couple
of points.  So he knew his officer was aloft, up there in the sunshine, in a position that
enabled her to direct their course.

In such a fashion, creeping through the fog, the Cohasset came at last to Fire Mountain.  The
fog delayed, but did not daunt, the mariners of the happy family.

After the hurried noon meal, Ruth returned to her station aloft and resumed conning the vessel
by remembered landmarks on the mountain's face.  On deck, Martin, in company with his fellows,
labored under the boatswain's lurid driving to prepare the ship for anchoring.  They cockbilled
the great hooks, overhauled the cables, and coiled down running braces and halyards; for, said
the captain, attending upon their bustle with his abnormally sharp ears:

"It's a wide breach in the reef that makes the cove, and the water is deep right up to the
beach.  The lass should have no trouble conning us in, for she has a clean view aloft.  But
just have everything ready for quick work, bosun, in case we get into trouble."

Hence it was that Martin, a-tingle though he was with curiosity, found no opportunity to run
aloft into the sunshine and view the place he had talked and dreamed so much about.  Other
men went aloft on ship's work, but Martin's duty kept him racing about the wet decks.

The fog pressed closer upon them as the day advanced, it seemed to Martin.  It required an
effort of his imagination to admit that a few feet above him the sun shone.

The ship seemed to be crawling blindly about in a limitless void.  Anon would come Ruth's cheering
and mellow halloo, cleaving sweetly through the drab enveloping blanket, and seeming to Martin's
eager ears to be a good fairy's voice from another world.

The screaming of the sea-birds grew in volume--but not a wing did Martin spy.  The air appeared
to take on an irritating taint; the fog tasted smoky.

Added to other sounds, slowly grew a great surging rumble.  Aided by Ruth's calls, Martin knew
he heard the sea beating against the reef that encircled the mountain; but he saw nothing overside
but that dead gray wall.

The upper canvas was clewed up and left hanging, and the brig's slow pace became perceptibly
slower.

A boat was lowered, and Little Billy was pulled into the void ahead; and directly his musical
chant came back, as he sounded their path with the lead.

The surging thunder came from both sides, and Martin knew they were entering the haven.  The
voices of Ruth and Little Billy brought echoes from the giant sounding-board ahead.

A sharp command from Captain Dabney, a moment's rush of work to the accompaniment of a deal
of fiery swiggling on the boatswain's part, the ship lost way and rounded up, the anchor dropped
with a dull plub, the chain roared through the hawse-pipe and brought a vastly multiplied echoing
roar from the invisible cliffs, and there was a sudden, myriad-voiced screeching from the startled
birds.  Succeeded an ominous, oppressive quiet, broken only by the dull thunder of the surf.

Martin drew a long breath and stared at the blank, impervious void about him.

"So this," he thought whimsically, "is the terrible Fire Mountain!"  He was excitedly happy.

A few moments later, when he went aloft to furl sail, he saw the shore, this unmarked, unknown
rock that had filled his thoughts for months.

It was a sudden and eery transition as he mounted the rigging, from gray night to sunshine
in the space of a few ratlines.  On the foretopgallant-yard he was above the fog, the very
roof of the bank lying a dozen feet below.  The decks were concealed from him.

Overhead, the sky was blue and the gulls drove past and circled about in white screaming clouds.
Before him, and on either side, not five hundred yards distant, loomed the mountain.

Martin stared intently and curiously, and, despite himself, that bleak and desolate outlook
sobered the gaiety of his mood.  On three sides the rock reared skyward, bare and black, with
never a hint of vegetation.

The mountain formed a rough cone; some two thousand feet overhead was the summit, and over
it hovered a cloud of white steam vapor, and a twisting column of curiously yellow-brown smoke
that trailed away lazily on a light wind.  Martin, staring at it, decided that the air he breathed
did have an alien, a sulphurous taint.

There were no raw fissures about the crater edge, and no evidence beyond the rather thin volume
of smoke that the volcano contained life. Yet Martin seemed to hear, above the thunder of the
surf in the fog beneath him, a distant, ominous rumbling, as if the slumbering Vulcan of the
mountain were snoring in his sleep.

But it was the mountainside that longest held Martin's fascinated gaze. For, in her fiery past,
the volcano had clad her flanks with black lava that was now molded into a vast chaos of fantastic
architecture and sculptures.  It was as if an army of crazy artists had here expended their
lunatic energies.

He saw huge, round towers, leaning all awry; a vast pile fashioned like a church front, with
twin steeples canting drunkenly; the tremendous columns the captain had told him of; jutting
masses that hinted in their half-formed outlines of gigantic, crouching beasts.  And everywhere
in that weird field of shapes were the openings of caves--dark blots in the black stone.

The mountain was truly a sponge-like labyrinth, Martin perceived.  He could not see the strip
of beach, however, or the cavern mouth, shaped like an elephant's head, of the whaleman's log.
The fog hid them from view.

But what he did see was sufficient.  It was an evil landscape.  It loomed black and forbidding
against the background of blue sky, and the sun failed to lighten the aspect.  It threatened.
The stark desolateness of the place was enhanced by the wild cawing of the gulls and the mournful
booming of the sea upon the reef.

Martin was depressed, as by a foreboding of ill fortune.  He turned to Rimoa, who was on the
yard-arm with him, and spoke with forced lightness--

"A cheerful-looking place, eh, Rimoa?"

The Maori shuddered, and there was fear in his eyes.

"No like!" he said.  "This place bad, bad, bad!"

Then, as they bent to their work, the fog-bank suddenly lifted, enveloped them, and hid the
black mountain from view.

CHAPTER XIV

OUT OF THE FOG

"No, we'll not go ashore tonight," stated Captain Dabney at supper. "We would only lose ourselves
blundering about in this fog.  If the stuff is still there, it will keep until tomorrow.  In
the morning we'll have a try, whether the fog has lifted or not."

"We'll find the junk unless Wild Bob and Ichi have beaten us to it," said Little Billy.  "Hope
they are not snugged close by behind this blooming curtain."

"No danger of that," answered Ruth.  "If the Dawn had been anywhere near us, I would have raised
her topmasts above the bank.  I didn't, so she is neither outside nor inside.  They have either
been here or gone, or they never arrived.  In either case, I am thankful for Carew's absence.
Shall we stand watch and watch tonight, captain?"

"Hardly necessary," said the captain.  "Make it an anchor watch.  Guess you'll welcome a couple
of extra hours in your bunks.  Let's see, Martin, you stand watch with the afterguard; that
will make four of you--Ruth, Bosun, Little Billy, and Martin.  Have the fo'c's'le stand watch
in batches of two.  Make Chips and Sails--they have been farmers the passage--stand watch and
watch.  That will make four hands on deck at a time--plenty for any sudden emergency.  But
if the fog lifts during the night, rouse the ship at once and we'll set off for the beach.
Got your directions ready, Billy?"

"Yes, in my pocket," said the hunchback.  "But I venture that we all know them by heart."

"If the fog lifts, wind may follow," added the captain.  "If it breezes up from the south we
may have to hike out of here in a hurry.  How much chain is out?  Forty-five?  Well, have the
bosun clap the devil's claw on ahead of the shackle, and loosen the pin, in case we have to
drop the cable.  And--all hands at four o'clock."

In the lottery that presently followed, Martin drew the watch from two to four in the morning.
Little Billy's paper called for from twelve to two.  Ruth and the boatswain divided the first
four hours.

Before he turned in, Martin went forward to discover which of the forecastle hands would share
his vigil.  When he came abreast the galley door, where a beam of light shining out lighted
dimly a small patch of the pervading, foggy murk, he encountered Sails.

MacLean was standing in the light, bitterly recounting his troubles to the cheerfully grinning
Charley Bo Yip.  Martin paused, and was promptly aware that Sails had transferred his flow
of words to the newcomer, as being a better audience than the unresponsive Chinaman.

Martin gathered that Sails was to stand the middle watch, and that he was aggrieved that the
best blood of Scotland had been bested in a game of chance by a blanked squarehead ship's carpenter,
who had, it seemed, won the right to stand the earlier watch.  And, in any case, it was sacrilege
to violate the night's rest of a MacLean.  And a sailmaker was a dash-blanked tradesman and
should never be blankety well asked to stand a watch under any dashed circumstances!  So quoth
Sails.

Martin commiserated with the other.

"You'll be on watch with me, Sails," he concluded.  "I have the two to four.  Little Billy
has the earlier half of the watch."

"Little Billy!" echoed Sails.  "Did ye say Little Billy, lad?"  His belligerent voice dropped
to a hoarse whisper.  "Och, lad--Little Billy?"

"Why, yes.  What is wrong with that?" answered Martin.

Suddenly Sails raised an arm and shook a clenched fist at the mountain that brooded invisible
behind the fog curtain.

"Och, ye black de'il's kirk!" he declaimed.  "Ye blood-sucker!  The MacLean's curse on ye!"

He stood in relief against the muddy background, his features dimly lighted by the ray from
the galley lamp, wisps of fog eddying about his gray head and beard, his features wild and
passion-working.  And he cursed the Fire Mountain.  It was unreal, unearthly, a scene from
another age.  But Martin felt a superstitious thrill.

"Great Scott!  What is the matter?" he cried, startled.

MacLean lowered his arm, and his shoulders slumped despondently.  He mumbled to himself.  Then,
in answer to Martin, he said:

"Little Billy--och, 'tis Little Billy, dear Billy!  'Tis feydom, lad!"  And he turned abruptly,
strode forward, and was lost in the fog.

When Martin reached aft again, he intended to tell Little Billy about MacLean's strange behavior.
He found the hunchback restlessly pacing the tiny floor space of their common room.  Little
Billy lifted a haggard face as Martin entered.

"Hello, Martin," he said.  "I was waiting up for you.  Here--keep these for me, will you?"
He extended a bunch of keys.  "I'm feeling extra dry tonight, and I don't want to be tempted
by knowing I have the key to the medicine-chest in my pocket.  Whenever I pass that confounded
box, I think of the two quarts of booze inside, and my tongue swells. Just keep the keys till
tomorrow, will you?  Ruth kept them for me when I had my last big thirst, a few weeks ago--remember?
But I would rather you kept them this time.  I don't want her to know I'm having a hard time.
She makes such a fuss over me, stuffs me with pills, and makes me drink that vile sassafras tea."

Martin dropped the bunch of keys into his trousers pocket.  He regarded Little Billy with sympathy.
For the past few days, the hunchback had again been engaged in a bout with his ancient enemy.
Little Billy was fighting manfully, but the strain was telling, aging his mobile face, making
rare his sunny smile and whimsical banter.  Martin keenly felt the other's suffering, for he
had learned to love the little cripple.

"Cheer up, Billy!" he said.  "A better day coming."

"Oh, sure!  Don't worry about me," responded Little Billy.  "Turn in and get your sleep.  I'm
for the bunk, too--but I guess I'll read a bit before I turn the lamp down.  Lord, don't I
wish I owned a saloon! Well, tomorrow we'll find the ambergris, and I'll have money enough
to drink myself peacefully to death--providing that devil, Carew, hasn't been before us to
this cheerful spot.  Good night."

Clambering into his bunk, the little man composed himself to a pretense of reading.

Martin decided he would not trouble Little Billy with a recital of MacLean's outburst.  The
poor fellow's mind was feverish enough without being bothered with the old Scotchman's wild,
nonsensical raving. Martin knew the hunchback would consider gravely, and be disturbed, if
he spoke.  Little Billy apparently had some faith in Sails' mystical foresight.

In truth, Martin himself, was impressed and oppressed by the Scot's obscure hints of evil to
come--they fitted so well with the wild and gloomy face of the volcano and the depressing fog.
Martin was half ashamed of his dread of something he could not name; but he turned in standing,
removing only his shoes and loosening his belt, before crawling into his bunk and drawing the
blankets over him.

A strange hand grasping his shoulder brought Martin out of deep sleep to instant consciousness.
The light still burned in the room, and his opening eyes first rested on the tin clock hanging
on the wall opposite.  It was one o'clock.

The hand that shook him belonged to MacLean.  The old man was bending over him with the white
face of one who has seen a ghost.

"He's gone!" he softly exclaimed, before Martin could frame a question.

Startled, Martin sat up and swung his legs outboard.

"What--Little Billy?"  A glance showed him the upper bunk was empty.

"Aye--Billy," responded Sails.  "Och, 'tis a bad night outdoors, lad--a thick, dark night.
And Billy's gone.  Didna' I see him in the dark, and wearing the black shroud, these months
agone!  He was feyed! Yon mount is the de'il's home, and others----"

"What are you talking about?" interrupted Martin impatiently.  "What nonsense!  Isn't Little
Billy on deck?  Isn't he on watch?"

"On watch?  Aye, who kens where he watches now?  He's gone, I tell ye!" hissed the old man
fiercely.  And then, apparently observing Martin's bewilderment, he went on: "He has disappeared
from deck.  Och, I can no say how!  The Powers o' Darkness can no be seen through, and he was
under the black shroud!  I saw him at one bell when he came for'rd and routed me oot the galley
where I was taking a wee spell.

"Och, 'tis a black, bad night the night.  Ye canna' see your hand afore ye.  And Billy went
aft, and I leaned on the rail, and listened--listened, for I couldna' see.  And I heard It!
Aye, I kenned 'twas It, for 'twas no the soond o' the waves, nor the calling o' the birds,
nor the splash o' anything that lives in the sea.  I kenned it was It.  Hadna' I seen the shroud?
Soonded like an oar stroke.  'Twas the Prince o' Evil soonding his way, a-coming wi' his shroud.
Och!  I run aft to tell Billy, and I tell ye, lad, Little Billy was gone!"

MacLean leaned forward, grunting his words earnestly, his face working with superstitious fear.

"Oh, nonsense!" exclaimed Martin.  "You make me tired with your eternal 'fey' business.  Little
Billy is somewhere around the deck--probably seeking you, this minute."

"He's gone!" reiterated Sails.  "I searched, I tell ye!  I got my lantern, and I looked all
aboot the poop, and all aboot the decks, clear for'rd, and I sang oot as loud as I could wi'oot
rousing all hands--and no hide or hair o' Billy could I find.  Och, he's gone, I tell ye, lad.
Didna' I see him lying stark in the dark place, wi' the black shroud over him.  The MacLeans
ha' the sight, lad, and I am the seventh son."

"All right, all right!  Don't chatter so loud, you'll awaken everybody," interrupted Martin.
He rubbed the sleep out of his eyes, and bent over and pulled on his shoes.  "I'll go on deck
with you, and of course Little Billy will give us the laugh."

But Martin was, in fact, a little bit impressed by the old sailmaker's earnest conviction.
As he laced his shoes, a little superstitious thrill tingled along his spine at the thought
of It plucking Little Billy from the deck and carrying him into the dark depths of the brooding
mountain.

But that was nonsense, he immediately reflected, half angry with himself.  By George!  If he
allowed that confounded volcano to affect him so, he would soon be as bad as old Sails!  Still,
he had better go on deck and take a look at Little Billy, and satisfy the old man.  His watch
was soon, anyway.

Martin was recalling the hunchback's nervousness a few hours previous; Little Billy was wrestling
John Barleycorn.  If he had disappeared as the sailmaker claimed, he had probably lost the
bout and would be found in drunken sleep.  There was whisky in the medicine-chest--no, he had
the keys.  Well, then the alcohol in the boatswain's locker.

"Was there anything unusual about Little Billy's manner when you saw him at one bell?" he asked
MacLean.

"No, lad.  I ken your thought," replied the other.  "He'd no had a drop, though he was jumpy
as a cat."

Martin was taken aback by Sails' shrewd guess.  He tiptoed to the door.

"Come on," he whispered to Sails.  "Don't make any noise.  We don't want to disturb the others
until we make sure Little Billy isn't on the job."

They stepped into the cabin, and Martin's first glance was toward the medicine-chest.  It had
not been disturbed.  They went forward, through the cabin alleyway, toward the main deck. 
The boatswain's room opened off here.

Martin opened the door, half expecting to see the hunchback chatting with his bosom friend.
But the room was dark, and the red giant was sleeping noisily.  Then they opened the door at
the end of the alleyway and stepped out on deck, Martin softly closing the door behind him.

Abruptly, Martin found himself isolated in a sea of murk.  At that hour, the sun had dipped
for its brief concealment beneath the horizon, and the fog, which had been a gray-brown curtain
in daylight, was now an all-enshrouding cloak of blackness that rendered eyesight useless.

Literally, Martin could not see his hand before his face.  Nor could he see the door to the
cabin alleyway, that he had just closed, though he had stepped but a couple of paces away from
it.  Nor could he see Sails, though the latter stood but an arm's length distant.  Sails's
hoarse whisper came through the gloom:

"Ye see the night, lad?  Och, 'tis a night for evil!"

Martin shivered at the sound of Sails' dismal croaking.  See the night! He could see nothing.
The other's voice came out of an impenetrable void.  Above him, beneath him, all about him,
was nothing but blackness, thick, clinging gloom.  The Stygian, fog-filled night crushed, like
a heavy, intangible weight; one choked for breath.

Martin felt like an atom lost in back immensity.  He wanted to shout at the top of his voice.
But what he did do was lift his voice gently, so the words would not arouse the sleepers in
the cabin.

"Little Billy!  Billy!" he called.

His call was swallowed up, smothered, by the night.  He strained his ears.  But the only answer
was the eery cry of a night-flying gull and the deep moaning of the sea upon the rocks--that
and the hoarse, uneasy breathing of the invisible MacLean.

Martin was more than disturbed by that silence.

"Sails, who are the foc'sle hands who have this watch?" he said.

"Rimoa and Oomak," came MacLean's voice.  "They were for'rd when I came aft for you."

Martin called again, along the decks.

"Rimoa!  Oomak!  For'rd there--speak up!"

The wailing voices of the night replied; not a word, not a footfall came out of the gloom to
tell of stirring human life.

"Good Lord, they must all be asleep!" exclaimed Martin testily. "Sails, where is that lantern
you spoke of?"

"In the galley--I left it there," answered the sailmaker.  "I will go fetch it."

He heard MacLean's retreating footsteps, uncertain and uneven, as the man felt his way forward.
The diminishing sounds affected him strangely; he was suddenly like a little child affrighted
by the dark. The sinister night contained a nameless threat.  The black wall that encompassed
him, flouting his straining gaze, seemed peopled by rustlings and leering eyes.  Abruptly,
Martin decided to follow MacLean, instead of waiting for him.

He stepped out in the other's wake, as he thought.  After a blundering moment, he fetched up
against the ship's rail.  He tacked away and bumped into the after capstan, which stood in
the middle of the deck. He barked his shins there and swore aloud to relieve his surcharged
feelings.

Then his groping hand encountered a little object, lying on top of the capstan, that checked
his words instantly.  It was a well-known article, one he had handled often, and recognized
immediately he touched it--it was Little Billy's rubber tobacco-pouch.  He fingered it apprehensively,
staring about him.  Why was Little Billy's pouch abandoned there on the capstan-head, this
pocket companion of an inveterate smoker?  Why, Little Billy must be near by!  He called excitedly:

"Billy!  Billy!  Where are you?"

The night took his hail and returned its own sphinx-like reply.  Martin stuffed the pouch into
his pocket.  He was distinctly uneasy, now, on the hunchback's account.  Something had happened,
he felt--some accident had happened to Little Billy.  It was not like Little Billy to thus
forsake his beloved shag, his constant ally in his fight against the drink hunger.  Had the
poor devil succumbed after all?  Had he deserted Nicotine for Barleycorn?

Martin leaned over the capstan, peering into that baffling gloom.  He stiffened tensely.  He
seemed to hear whispering; it came out of that black pit before him, the very ghost of a man's
voice.

He strained his ears, but the sound, if sound it were, was not repeated.  He was impatient
for MacLean to appear with the lantern, but he could no longer hear MacLean's footfalls.  Then
his ears caught another sound; it was peculiar, like the patter of bare feet.

"MacLean!  Where are you?" he called sharply.  "Hurry with that lantern!"

Instead of MacLean's voice in reply, he heard a heavy breathing, the sound of a man taking
several long, sobbing breaths.  The breathing ceased immediately, but a light patter followed
it, and then the scrape of a shod foot across the deck.  The sounds came from just ahead, close
by, but he could see nothing.  But he sensed some kind of a struggle was taking place on the deck.

He started forward, and then stopped dead.  Out of the black void before him came MacLean's
voice--strangled words in a horrible, ascending pitch:

"Marty!  Marty!  My God!  Ah-h-h!"

There, was the thud of a heavy, falling body striking the deck.

For a second Martin was anchored by horror.  Then he leaped forward, giving voice as he did
to a great, arousing, wordless bellow.  And even as he ran blindly ahead those few paces, he
heard a heavy voice give a shouted supplement to his call.

The darkness was suddenly alive with rushing feet.  A body hurled itself against him, an arm
struck a sweeping blow, and he felt the knife rip through his flannel shirt and graze his shoulder
near his neck.

He went reeling backward, his foot tripped on a ring-bolt in the deck, and he fell heavily.
His head struck with stunning force against a bulwark stanchion.

The collision scattered his wits, and Martin lay in the scuppers, blinking at the dancing lights
before his eyes.  In his ears was a great humming.  Then, after a moment, the humming broke
into parts and became a babel of shouts.

He heard a harsh chatter--voices crying out in a foreign tongue.  He heard a great booming
voice that stirred memory.  He heard a pistol-shot.  He heard Ruth's voice, raised in a sharp,
terror-stricken cry:

"Martin--Billy--Martin!  Oh, help!"

The scream galvanized Martin to action.  She was calling him!

He struggled to arise, got upon his knees, reached upward and grasped a belaying-pin in the
rail above.  Clutching the pin, he drew himself erect.

He swayed drunkenly for a moment, still dizzied by his fall.  The pandemonium of a moment agone
was stilled.  Ruth did not cry out again, but voices came from aft.  The belaying-pin he grasped
was loose in its hole and unencumbered by rope.  Quite without reasoning, Martin drew it out,
and, grasping it clublike, lurched aft.

Twice during his headlong flight toward the cabin, hands reached out of the darkness to stay
him.  And twice the stout, oaken club he wielded impacted against human skulls, and men dropped
in their tracks.

Martin burst out of the gloom into the small half-circle of half light that came from the now
open alleyway door.  He rushed through, into the cabin.

He had time but for a glimpse of the scene in the cabin.  One whirling glance that took in
the scattered company--the bedraggled Japanese, Captain Dabney lying face down across the threshold
of his room, his white hair bloodied, Wild Bob Carew lifting a startled face.  And Carew was
holding a squirming, fighting Ruth in his arms!

Martin hardly checked the stride of his entrance.  He flung himself toward the man who held
his woman, and his club cracked upon another skull.

A man hurtled against him and drove him against the wall.  He saw Carew fall, and Ruth spill
free of the encircling arms.

Then a hand took him by the throat, long, supple, muscular fingers stopping his wind.  He saw
a face upraised to his--an expressionless yellow face, with glittering, slanting eyes.  He
drew up his club for the blow.  The slender fingers were probing upward, behind his jawbone,
and he was choking.

Then, it seemed to Martin, a stream of liquid fire flooded his veins, searing his entire body.
The belaying-pin dropped from his nerveless hand, his arms dropped, his knees sagged.

The terrible fingers squeezed tighter.  He could feel his eyeballs starting, his tongue swelling.
The flame consumed his vitals.  It was hellish pain--quite the sharpest agony Martin had ever felt.

He was upon his back on the floor.  The fingers were gone, but the awful pain continued.  His
wits were swimming.  A pair of soft arms were about him.  His reeling head was cushioned against
a loved and fragrant breast; a dear voice spoke his name anxiously.

"Martin, Martin!  What have they done?  Oh, Martin, speak to me!"  He tried to speak, but could
not.

Then the loved presence was gone, and he was alone.  A face bent over him!--a yellow face.
It was a well-remembered face, the face of little Dr. Ichi.  But what a towsled, bedraggled
successor to the former dandy!

Ichi was smiling at him.  It was all very strange to Martin, unreal, like the fancies of a
delirium.  A mist came before his eyes and blotted out the smiling face.  But his senses left
him with Ichi's courteously spoken words in his ears:

"Very, very sorry, Mr. Blake.  You were of such roughness we were compelled to use the ju-jitsu!"

CHAPTER XV

IN THE LAZARET

It seemed to Martin he was wandering in a vast and thirsty desert.  To the very core of his
being he was dry.  Drink!  Drink!  With his whole life he lusted drink.  He waded through that
parched world, burning up with thirst.

Despite his efforts, his mouth sagged open, and his tongue, swollen to prodigious size, burst
through its proper limits and hung down upon his breast, broiling in the rays of the hot sun.
To make the keener his thirst, there lay before him a delectable oasis, a patch of moist green,
with playing fountains and rippling cascades plainly visible to his tortured gaze.  He struggled
toward it, and always, as he neared it, some malign influence clutched his wrists--which unaccountably
stuck out behind him--and jerked him back.

For ages and ages he waded through the dry sand toward the water, and ever the Evil One who
controlled his wrists kept him from attaining his desire.  Water!  Water!  He was in agony
for water.  Water!  Would he never reach that blessed water?

Then something cold, slimy, horrible, ran over his face, and the loathful thrill he felt shocked
him into reality.

The desert vanished.  He tried to move and sat up.  He heard a frenzied squeaking, and a light
scampering on wood, and he knew that a rat had run over his body.

All the sensations of consciousness assailed him abruptly.  He heard the rats, and a deep rumble
near by; he saw dimly in the darkness; he smelled of mingled odors of provisions; he felt thirst.
Though he was out of the desert, he was still consumed with thirst.

He sat quietly for a moment while his confused thoughts gradually arrayed themselves in orderly
fashion.  He knew where he was instantly--the jumble of casks, and kegs, and boxes, that surrounded
him, and which he could dimly perceive in the gloom, and the smell, told him he was in the
ship's lazaret.  How he came to be there was as yet concealed behind a haze that clouded his
memory.

Next, he became aware that something was the matter with his arms. They ached cruelly.  After
a moment's experimenting and reflection the truth came to him with shocking force--his arms
were drawn behind him, and his wrists were handcuffed together.  The shock of that discovery
dissipated the fog over his mind.  He began to remember.

But while his wits groped, he was sharply conscious of his thirst.  It blazed.  His tongue
felt like a piece of swollen leather.  He felt pain.  His throat was throbbing with pain. 
Water!  Water was the pressing need, the most important thing in existence.

He tried to mouth his desire, to speak it aloud, and a weak and painful gurgle struggled outward
from his throat.

There was a stir close by him, and a voice spoke up.  Martin was then aware that the deep rumble
he had been listening to was the sound of a man swearing deeply and softly.  The man now spoke
to him.

"Ow, lad, is that you?  'Ave you come to, Martin!"

Martin peered toward the voice, and saw a few feet ahead of him, beyond a circular stanchion,
the shadowy outline of a man.  He tried to speak, to say, "Bosun!  Bosun!"  But his misused
throat and parched tongue refused to form the words.  And with the other's voice came memory,
complete and terrible.  The past was arrayed before his mind's eye with a lightning flash of
recollection.  The dreadful present was clear to him in all its bitter truth.

He remembered the trip to the deck in search of Little Billy; the black, evil night, and MacLean's
horrified outcry.  He remembered the scene in the cabin, Captain Dabney lying inert on the
floor, the hateful ring of yellow faces, and Carew--Carew clasping Ruth in his arms!

He remembered felling Carew, and being felled himself by the lethal clutch of the Japanese.
He remembered Ichi, and even Ichi's words, "compelled to use the ju-jitsu."  They had ju-jitsued
him!  That was what was wrong with his throat.

The sum of his memories was clear, and for the moment it crushed and terrified him.  For it
was evident that that which they had speculated upon as a remote almost impossible, contingency,
had come to pass--the brig was in Carew's hands.  They had been surprised in the fog, a piracy
had occurred, murder had been done, and Wild Bob and his yellow followers had taken the ship.

He was a prisoner in the bowels of the ship, his hands chained behind his back, absolutely
helpless.  And Sails was dead!  And Little Billy was dead!  Captain Dabney was dead!  The crew--God
knew, perhaps--they were slaughtered too!  And Ruth--Ruth was alive, in Carew's hands, at the
mercy of the brute she so feared.  Ruth was alive--to suffer what fate?  And he--he who loved
her--was chained and helpless.

Panic, rage, despair, shook Martin.  In excess of misery, he groaned aloud, a smothered sob
of anguish.

"Martin, lad!  'Ave you come around?  You're sittin' up.  Ow, swiggle me, lad, pipe up!"

The words came from the huddled figure behind the stanchion, in a husky beseeching rumble.
The shadowy figure stirred, and Martin heard the sharp clink of steel striking against steel.

The words and the sound pierced his dread, and brought his thoughts back to the boatswain.
He tried a second time to answer the other's hail, and managed to articulate in a hoarse mumble.
The words tore barbed through his sore throat, and were hardly managed by his dry, swollen tongue.

"All right--bos--dry--come."

He got upon his knees and peered into the darkness about him.  He was in a narrow passageway
between two rows of ship's stores that fan fore and after the length of the lazaret.  He was
facing forward.  Just behind him, on his right hand, a ladder ran up to the cabin overhead,
but the trapdoor in the cabin floor was closed.

His scrutiny was aided as much by memory as by eyesight, for he had several times been in this
chamber, breaking out stores.  The passage he sat in, he knew, ran forward to the row of beef
casks which abutted against the forward bulkhead.  Midway was an intersecting, thwart-ship
alleyway between the stores.  At this point of intersection was the stanchion, behind which
was the boatswain, a hulking black blot in the surrounding gloom.

He hunched himself along upon his knees, and reached the stanchion.

"Drink--dry--water," he gabbled painfully.

"Marty--Marty, lad, I'm glad you're 'ere!" came the heartfelt whisper from the boatswain. 
"I feared 'e 'ad choked the life out o' ye.  Dry, ye say?  So am I, lad.  Cussed so much I
can't spit--an' my back's bloomin' well busted from bending over 'ugging this stanchion!"

Martin, leaning against a tier of boxes, was able to see the boatswain more clearly.  He could
not make out the other's features plainly, but he almost rubbed against an arm and leg, and
he saw that the big man was in his underwear.  The boatswain was seated on the floor, and his
arms and legs encircled the stanchion.

"I'd 'a' come to you, Marty, but the blighters 'ave me ironed, ironed 'and an' foot around
this bloody stanchion!  Ow, but it's a black business, lad!  But can ye stand, Martin?  'Ave
they ironed you, too?"

Martin desperately endeavored to swallow the dry lump in his throat.

"Behind back--hand," he managed to gulp out.  "Throat bad--can't talk--dry----"

"Be'ind your back!" broke in the boatswain.  "Ow ---- blast the cruel devils!  Be'ind your
back--ironed be'ind your back!  An' you lyin' on your arms these hours!  That's cruel 'ard--'arder
than me 'ugging this ruddy post.  Throat bad?  I know--I seen them giving you the squeeze.
Ju-jitsu--swiggle me if it wasn't!  But can ye stand, Martin?  'Ave you the use o' your legs?
Because, them boxes you're leanin' against are canned goods, tomatoes an' such, and----"

But Martin heard no more.  He had struggled to his feet, and begun to investigate.  For the
boatswain's remark concerning canned goods had brought two memories to his mind.  One memory
went back to the old, half-forgotten days of his clerkhood in San Francisco.  In those days
he had occasionally gone on Sunday hikes over the Marin hills, in company with Fatty Jones,
who worked in a neighboring office.  And Fatty Jones, he recalled, always carried with him,
in preference to a canteen, two cans of tomatoes for drinking purposes.

The second memory went back but a week.  He, and the two Kanakas of his watch, had been sent
below to break out a fresh cask of beef.  As they struggled with the heavy burden in this very
passageway, one of the Kanakas had knocked from its position on top of a pile, a box of tomatoes.
The fall broke open the box.  They had tossed it back into place, unrepaired.  Unless some
one had subsequently renailed the cover on that box, it was open to him, somewhere along the
top tier.

A vision of himself quaffing deeply of the cool, wet contents of those cans, filled Martin's
mind to the exclusion of aught else.

The row of boxes was about breast-high.  Unable to use his hands, Martin leaned over and explored
with his chin.  The fourth box rewarded him.  He broke his skin upon a bared nail, and, craning
further, rubbed his jawbone over the cold, smooth, round tops of cans.

He crooned with delight.  Then followed despair as he discovered that he was unable, without
the use of his hands, to either move the box or extract a can.

The boatswain, following his progress with eye and ear, counseled him:

"Turn around, an' bend over, an' reach up backwards.  No?  Well, try and get on top o' the
pile, and flop over."

It was bracing advice.  Martin pulled himself together and essayed the attempt.

Slowly he wormed his way upward until his middle balanced on the edge of the top tier.  A quick
writhe placed him atop.  Then he bent back, and his manacled hands felt around till they encountered
the cans.

It required repeated attempts ere he was able to draw one out of the box, for the cans were
large, of gallon size, and his numbed arms were almost strengthless.  But at last he plucked
one out and canted it over the edge of the box.  It struck the deck with a thud.  He scrambled
down from his perch, croaking excitedly--

"Got it--bos--got--one."

An instant later, he had kicked the can to the stanchion, and was squatted again by the boatswain's
side.

The boatswain slid his arms down the post and felt of the treasure.

"Aye--ye got it!" he commented.  "But 'ow'll we open the thing?  Too big for me to get my 'ands
around, or I'd twist it open--an' the way we're tied up we can't bash it against anything.
Strike me a blushin' pink, what rotten luck.  An' we fair perishin' with thirst!"

"Got--knife?" mumbled Martin.

"Knife!  I ain't got my bloody clothes, let alone my knife!  Caught me in my bunk, asleep,
they did.  And you needn't twist about looking for your sheath-knife, lad.  I seen them take
it from you, up there in the cabin.  Swiggle me' we're stumped--but, you 'aven't a pocket-knife,
'ave you?"

"No," answered Martin.

His spirits were at zero, with the diminishing prospect of tasting those wet tomatoes.  His
raging thirst, whetted by expectation, assailed him with added force; he was actually dizzy
with lust of drink.

"Blimme!  'Aven't you anything in your pockets what's sharp?" asked the boatswain.  "Ow, what
tough luck!"

Martin suddenly remembered something.

"Got--keys," he croaked.  "Bunch--keys."

"Keys!" echoed the other.  "Bless me that's better.  May work it.  Can you reach them--what
pocket?  Side?  'Ere--lean closer to me, an' I'll get 'em out.  Keys!  Ow--any of them sharp
pointed?  Any Yales?"

Two of the boatswain's clublike fingers worked their way into Martin's trousers pocket.

"Don't know--not--mine," Martin answered the questioning.  "Keys belong--Little Billy--gave----"

The boatswain's fingers stopped prodding for a second.  The man tensed, drew in a sharp breath,
and then exploded an oath.

"What!  Billy's keys?  God 'elp us lad, did ye say you 'ad Little Billy's keys?"

The fingers dove into the pocket with redoubled energy, grasped the keys, and drew them out.
And then the boatswain pawed them over for a moment.

"Ow, strike me, 'e spoke right!" he muttered exultingly.  "Billy's keys--the steward's ring!
Oh ho!  An' may the devil swiggle me bleedin' well stiff, if 'ere ain't the wery key!  By 'Eaven,
I'll 'ave my bare 'ands on that bloke yet!  Ow--what luck!"

"What--" commenced the astonished Martin.

"What!" echoed the boatswain.  "Ere--you just stand around, and let me get at them bracelets.
I'll show ye what!  Ow--where's the bloody 'ole!  Ah-h!"

There was a tiny click--and Martin felt his steel bonds being drawn from his wrists.  His nerveless
arms fell to his sides.

The boatswain explained the miracle.

"Little Billy's keys--'ow'd you 'appen--don't ye see, lad?  There's a duplicate key to these
irons on Billy's key-ring.  Old man 'as the other key--or 'ad, suppose Carew 'as it now.  It
fits all the irons. 'Ere, turn me loose now.  This little key!"

A moment later, Martin's fumbling fingers completed their task, and the big man's limbs were
free.  The boatswain straightened and stretched with a grunt of satisfaction.  Martin, obeying
the dominant need, which was to drink, seized the can of tomatoes and commenced to pound it
against the stanchion, in the hope of bursting it open.

"'Ere--stop that!" hoarsely commanded the boatswain.  "You'll 'ave them down on us with that
noise.  Give me the can--an' the keys.  Ah--'ere's a Yale, saw edge.  Just drive it through--so.
An' use it like a bloomin' can-opener--so.  'Ere you are, lad, drink 'earty.  I know 'o'w a
chokin' like you got makes a man crazy with thirst.  I'm some dry myself."

Martin seized the can.  The boatswain had cut a small, jagged opening in the top and Martin
clapped his mouth over it, cutting his lips in his eagerness.  He drank, drank.  It was an
exquisite delight to feel the cool stream pouring down his throat; his whole body was instantly
refreshed, invigorated.

He paused for breath, and drank again.  The contents of the can were three-quarters drinkable,
and he gulped the major portion down.  Then he stopped with a sudden shame of his greediness,
recalling the boatswain's expressed need.

"Oh, bosun, I forgot!" he exclaimed, noting as he spoke that his tongue was limber and tractable
again, and that he could form words.

"That's all right, laddie," said the boatswain, taking the proffered can.  "I know 'ow you
felt.  Enough for me 'ere.  Ah, that's better than the best drink ever mixed be'ind a bar.
Plenty, lad, plenty--I feel fit now.  'Ere, 'ave some more."

Martin finished the tin.  Then he heaved a surfeited sigh.

"Oh, I didn't think I'd ever get enough," he said.  "Why, I was so dry I couldn't talk.  And
my throat----"

"I know," interrupted the boatswain, sitting down beside him.  "You're bleedin' lucky to be
talkin' now, even in a whisper.  I've seen other men choked like you was, an' they couldn't
say a word for days.  Slick beggars with their fingers, them jitsu blokes!  And now, Martin,
let's figure it out.  Ow, swiggle me, what'll we do?  The lass----"

The boatswain swore deeply and energetically.

Martin groaned in unison with the other's oaths, his love-born panic for the girl's safety
overwhelming him again.  Grim, horrible fears surged through his mind and pricked him unendurably.
God!  Ruth, his Ruth, was alone, helpless, at the mercy of those devils' lusts!  And he was
sitting here inactive!  It was unendurable!

He scrambled to his feet, with the wild idea of mounting the ladder to the cabin and battering
his way through the trap-door.  He must succor Ruth!

The boatswain reached up a huge hand and pulled him down again.  Martin struggled for a moment,
his reason clouded by his hot fear.

"But, bosun--Ruth!" he cried.  "Ruth is--Good God, man, Carew and those yellow men have Ruth!"

The giant restrained him as easily as if he were a child, and talked soothingly.

"Aye, aye, lad--I know.  But Ruth is safe, I think, so far.  An' ye can bet your bottom dollar
Carew will keep the Japs at their distance of the lass, and she'll stand off Carew--for a w'ile,
any'ow.  Swiggle me, Martin, 'ave sense.  What can ye do bare-'anded?  'Ere, now, sit still,
and we'll figure out some plan.  Ruth's all right.  She's in the Old Man's room, a-nursin' 'im."

"No, no--the captain is dead!" asserted Martin.  "I saw him lying dead on the floor!"

"'E wasn't dead," said the boatswain.  "Carew took 'is gun away, and 'it 'im over the eye with
the butt of it.  Laid 'im out, same as you. They let the lass take 'im into 'is room and stay
there to nurse 'im. I seen it, I tell ye!"

Martin subsided.

"But what will we do?" he exclaimed.  "We must do something, bosun!"

"Aye--please God, we'll do something," said the boatswain.  "Please God, I'll 'ave my 'ands
on that black-'earted murderer--and on Ichi, too!  I 'ave a plan.  But first, tell me what
'appened to you?  'Ow did you 'appen to be on deck?  It wasn't your watch.  What 'appened on
deck before you came bouncing into the cabin and batted Carew on the knob with the belayin'-pin?
Neat crack!  Too bad it didn't 'urt the beggar much.  And brace up, lad!  I know 'ow ye feel.
I know 'ow 'tis between you and the lass--I've seen the eyes ye give each other.  She'll be
safe, Martin.  Strike me, God will never let them 'arm 'er, swiggle me stiff if 'E will!"

There was a wealth of simple faith in the giant's voice, and some of it found lodgment in Martin's
troubled breast.  He composed himself, held himself in sure check, and upon the boatswain's
repeated request, told what had happened to him from the moment the old sailmaker had awakened
him till he felt his senses leave him in the cabin.

When he finished, he discovered it was his turn to hearten.  The boatswain was immersed in
grief, and the hunchback was the cause.

"Ow, swiggle me!  I 'oped as 'ow Billy was safe somewhere--locked up like us," he groaned.
"But 'e's gone.  Got 'im first, likely.  Must 'ave slipped up be'ind 'im, while 'e was fillin'
his pipe there w'ere ye found 'is baccy, and give 'im the knife.  They didn't 'ave guns--used
knives.  They got guns now, blast 'em.  An' Little Billy's gone!  I--I loved the lad, Martin."
The man's voice choked.

"But he may not be dead, not even injured," urged Martin.  "I only heard Sails cry out.  Perhaps
Billy wasn't around when they slipped aboard.  You know his failing, bosun, and you know how
he has been the last few days.  The reason I have the keys, you know, is because he didn't
want to be tempted by the medicine-chest.  Maybe he gave in, and got some alcohol, forward,
and got drunk and went to sleep."

The boatswain snorted indignantly.

"You don't know Billy like I do!" he cried.  "Drunk, no!  Billy 'ad 'is failing, but 'e'd sooner
'a' died than give in at such a time. No--'e's gone.  Ye say old Sails told ye Billy was feyed!
Ow, that proves it.  That ---- burgoo-eater was always right in such things! Billy, dear Billy--'e
was a proper mate, Martin."

The boatswain's mood changed abruptly, and rage possessed him.  Martin felt the man's great
body tremble with the intensity of his passion. He spoke through his clenched teeth, slowly
and strangely, without using his accustomed expletives.

"They killed 'im!  They'll pay.  We're goin' to get out o' 'ere, Martin--I know 'ow, now. 
We're going to try an' take the ship back. Aye--maybe they'll get us, but I'll twist the necks
o' some o' them first.  And I'll get Carew, 'imself!"

He spoke the words with a cool positiveness that bred belief.  Martin, in almost as vengeful
a mood as the other, was grimly cheered by the pictured prospect.

"I'll tell you what I know about it," went on the boatswain in a somewhat lighter voice.  "They
got me in my bunk.  'Ad the irons on me before I was awake--ye know 'ow I sleep, like a ruddy
corpse.  Ichi steered 'em.  The blighter knows the ship, knew where the irons 'ung in the cabin,
knew 'ow the rooms are laid out.  When I woke up I was 'elpless, and 'alf dozen o' them picked
me up and packed me into the cabin and threw me down be'ind the table.  That's where I lay
when you busted in.  They 'ad gagged me with my own socks.

"They must 'ave been on board before Sails came aft, and as soon as the two of ye went for'rd,
they slipped into the alleyway be'ind ye.  I was already dumped on the cabin floor when the
rumpus broke out on deck--at the same instant Carew appeared.  At the noise, the Old Man jumped
out of 'is room, gun in 'and, and 'e shot at Carew's voice.  Carew grabbed the gun, and banged
'im over the eye with it, and the Old Man went down across 'is doorway.  Then Ruth popped out
o' 'er room, and Carew grabbed 'er.  She fought like the devil.  Then you bust in with your
belayin'-pin.

"After they 'ad choked you, an' after Carew 'ad got to 'is feet and pulled the lass away from
'uggin' and kissin' you, Carew and Ichi began to confab.  It was English, and I 'eard a bit.
Ichi went to the Old Man, 'oo was breathin' heavy, and examined 'im like 'e was a sure enough
sawbones.  'E says the Old Man is just knocked out, and no fracture.  'E takes the Old Man's
keys.  Then Carew 'as a couple o' 'ands hoist the Old Man into 'is bunk, and 'e says to the
lass as 'ow she can 'tend to the skipper.  Ruth bounces into the room and slams an' locks the
door.  Carew laughs and turns to business.

"An' what do ye think 'is first order was?  To 'ave the cook aft.  In a jiffy, they 'ad Charley
Bo Yip afore 'im.  'E ordered grub--slathers o' grub, immediate, for fifteen.  Yip took the
order without turnin' a 'air--trust a Chink for that.  Then they give us attention, an' they
lift the trap an' dump us down 'ere.  They leave you where you fell, but they boosted me along
to this 'ere stanchion and, while Carew tickled my shoulder-blades with a knife, Ichi, using
the skipper's key, trussed me up around the post.  Then they went aloft again, slippin' the
cuffs on you as they passed, I think, for they didn't do it in the cabin.

"Well, in fifteen minutes they were back--'alf dozen o' them, with Yip, and plenty o' lanterns.
Breaking out stores for Yip.  Yip never looks at me till he's ready to go aloft again.  Then,
making sure I can see 'is mug, 'e tips me a big wink.  That means something, Martin.  They're
deep uns them Chinks.

"That's all.  I sat there, cuffed up proper, for hours, cussing, and thinking, and calling
to you.  Hours!  Swiggle me stiff, 'twas a bloody lifetime, it seemed like.  About five or
six hours though, I think--must be about seven or eight o'clock now.

"That's all that 'appened.  But I'll tell you what I learned from Carew's and Ichi's talk,
and from lookin' at them.  They've been cast away, lad!  That's why we didn't sight the schooner
when we looked for 'er.  The Dawn was wrecked, some time ago.  Carew ordered food for fifteen--the
Dawn was fitted for seal 'unting, and carried a crew o' nigh thirty.  That shows only 'alf
were saved--a bad wreck.

"They ordered grub first thing--shows they didn't save stores, and 'ave been starvin' ashore.
Must 'ave saved a boat though, or they couldn't 'ave boarded us.  Must 'ave seen us come in;
spied us from one o' the caves in the wolcano, an' we could not see them.  The blasted fog
just played into their 'ands.  'Av'ing been ashore, they must 'ave found the ambergrease. 
They needed a ship, and they took us.  And there ye are! Sails dead, Little Billy dead, God
knows 'ow many o' the crew gone, the lass at the whim o' Wild Bob Carew.  Ow, what a bit o'
blasted luck! Swiggle me stiff!"

The boatswain growled desperate oaths to himself.  For a few moments he gave himself up to
lurid and audible thought.

Martin, in as black a mood himself, kept his peace, but he, too, spent the time in thought,
in gloomy surmising, in attempting to form some plan of action.  "What to do--what to do!"
The refrain sang in his troubled mind.  They must act, and act quickly.  Ruth's safety, and
the lives of their comrades, if any were alive, depended on the boatswain and himself.  But--what
to do?

Though they were free of their bonds, they were still boxed in this storeroom like rats in
a trap!  Obviously the first thing to do was to get out of the lazaret.

Martin commenced to formulate a hazy plan of lurking beneath the trap-door until opened from
above, and then trying to burst into the cabin, trusting to luck aiding them there.  A mad
plan, fore-doomed to failure, he conceded to himself, even as he thought of it.  But, what
else?  They must act!  Ruth ...

In the somber field of Martin's misery bloomed a tiny flower; and whenever his mental eye rested
upon this exotic, a sudden glow of happiness pervaded his being.  This bright flower was a
memory--the thought of himself lying helpless on the cabin floor, while two soft arms pressed
his sore-addled head to a protecting bosom, and warm lips caressed his face, and a dear voice
entreated; the thought of the boatswain's confirming words, "Carew pulled the lass away from
'uggin' and kissin' you."

So, she loved him!  She returned his love!  The love he had seen lighting her eyes, but which
he could never force her to acknowledge by words, she had unmistakably admitted by action.
In that black moment in the cabin, she had bared her heart to him--bared it fearlessly before
all that hostile, leering company.  His love was returned.  Ruth loved him!

Such was the origin of the exultant thrills that shot brightly through Martin's despair.  But
the triumphant thought was momentary.  Love could not brighten their lot; nay, love but made
more numerous the grim host of cruel fears that pressed upon him.  Ruth--God!  What would happen
to Ruth, what had happened to her, what was happening to her even now, while he sat mooning,
cooped and helpless in this black hole? It was unendurable!  He exploded a fierce oath.

"Bosun, we must do something--now--at once!" he cried.

The giant placed a restraining hand upon his shoulder.

"Easy lad!  Not so loud, or ye'll 'ave them coming down for a look-see. We don't want that,"
he admonished.  "Steady!  I know 'ow you feel--but raising a rumpus down 'ere won't 'elp us
none.  We'll do something right enough.  I got a plan, didn't I tell ye!  I was just thinking
it out--'ere, I'll tell you.  First, though, let's fix these bleedin' irons, in case they pay
us a visit."

He leaned over, searching about on the dark deck, and Martin heard the clinking as he gathered
up the cuffs.  He fiddled with them for a moment.

"'Ere, Martin, stick out your 'ands!"

Martin complied, and felt the handcuffs close about his wrists.

"See if you can pull your 'ands out."

Martin found he could, easily.

"All right--just keep them 'anging from one wrist," said the boatswain. "In case they come
down on us, we don't want them to find us loose. Just clap your 'ands be'ind you and slip your
irons on.  I 'ave mine fixed, too, and I'll be 'uggin' the post in the same old way.  They
won't think o' examinin' us."

"But we can't lounge here indefinitely," commenced Martin impatiently.

"We'll bide quiet for a bit," said the boatswain.  "I 'ave a 'unch they'll be coming down soon
to give us some scoffin's.  They wouldn't 'ave gone to the trouble o' chuck'in' us down 'ere
if they was going to kill us off'and.  And they won't starve us to death--they'll feed us till
they get ready to slit our throats an' dump us overside.  And if ye strain your ears, lad,
you'll 'ear the occasional rattle o' dishes over'ead.  They are eatin' up there.  Now, what's
the natural time to send scoffin's below to the prisoners?  Why, thinks I, after they 'ave
their own bellies full, and Charley Bo Yip is clearin' away the leavin's.  If they don't come
in an 'alf-hour or so, I'll commence work."

Martin immediately proposed rushing the hatch as soon as it was opened. The boatswain vetoed
the proposal.

"They'd slaughter us, lad.  We'd never 'ave a chance.  No--'ere's my scheme: We can get out
o' this lazaret into the 'old.  Aye, that's something ye didn't know, isn't it?  Nor does Ichi
know, for all 'e was cook aboard.  One time, some years ago, we was tradin' in the New 'Ebrides,
and the Old Man stowed some o' 'is trade stuff in the after'old.  'E 'ad a door cut in the
for'rd bulk'ead, 'ere, so 'e could get at the goods without opening the 'atch on deck.  Afterward,
we boarded it up--but the boards aren't nailed; just 'eld by cleats. Right at the for'rd end
o' this alley we're squattin in, be'ind the beef casks.  We can get through into the 'old."

"What good will it do?" queried Martin.  "We would be just as much prisoners in the hold as
where we are.  The hatches are battened down."

"Don't ye see?  We can make our way for'rd, there being naught but a bit o' ballast in the
'ooker.  And from the fore'old I think we can reach deck by way o' the peak.  The two of us
ought to be able to bust our way into the peak.  And ye know where the forepeak 'atch is--in
the middle o' the fo'c's'le deck!  Well, I figure they 'ave what's left o' our foremast crowd
locked in the fo'c's'le.  Aye, I figure there is some o' them left.  If Carew 'ad meant to
make a clean sweep at once, we'd not be down 'ere.  So--if we can get into the fo'c's'le and
join our lads, the odds won't be so great against us.  Be great enough, though, even if most
o' our 'ands are safe; swiggle me, fifteen o' them, and the blighters 'ave the use o' our own
guns, out of the cabin.

"But our lads are good boys.  They'll fight if we get to them to lead them; every man Jack
would go to ---- for the lass!  And if we can bust out on deck, there's capstan bars and belaying-pins
to fight with. It's a long chance, Martin, but a better one than your plan would give us, tryin'
to break into the cabin from 'ere, just us two, and gettin' knocked on the 'ead, or shot, soon
as we started through the 'atch!"

Better than his plan!  Why, it was a definite campaign.  A flame of hope kindled in Martin's
breast.  He was for immediate action.

"Come on--let's start!" he exclaimed, and he started to scramble to his feet.

"'Ere--'old on!" exclaimed the boatswain, pulling him back on his haunches.  "Swiggle me, don't
fly up like that, lad!  Keep your 'ead cool.  We got to wait a bit.  We don't want them comin'
down 'ere to find we've did the wanishin' stunt.  We got to pull this off as a surprise.  We
ought to wait till night when 'alf o' them, at least, would be asleep; but, blimme, I can't
wait till then, nor can you.  But we'll wait a little while an' see if they bring us grub;
if they do, we can be pretty sure they won't visit us again for several hours. That'll give
us time.  Hist, Marty, 'ere comes some one now!  Quick, slip on your 'andcuff and play 'alf dead!"

Some thin points of light, suddenly shooting into their dark prison, from around the edges
of the trap-door over their heads, gave rise to the boatswain's exclamations.  Martin, observing
the light at the same instant as the bosun, knew that the rug that covered the square in the
cabin floor had been drawn aside.  Some one was about to come down to them.

Martin bent his arms behind him and quickly slipped his free hand into the handcuff.  Then
he lay down on his side.

The boatswain encircled the stanchion with his arms and legs and adjusted the loose manacles
to his wrists and ankles.  Except to a close examination, the pair appeared to be as tightly
shackled as when their captors introduced them into their present surroundings.  They crouched
tense and still, their eyes on the square door overhead, waiting.

The trap-door opened.  A flood of daylight rushed into the storeroom and lighted a wide patch
of boxes and kegs; not, however, reaching to the spot where Martin and the boatswain lay.

"Fog gone," Martin heard his companion mutter.

A man stepped into the light, bearing a lighted lantern in his hand, and started to descend
the ladder.  But it was not Charley Bo Yip with food, as the boatswain had expected.  It was
the Japanese, Ichi.

Ichi stepped out of the square of daylight at the bottom of the ladder, lifted his lantern,
and sent its beam down the gloomy passage.  The two observant prisoners were disclosed.

"Ah, Mr. Blake!  I perceive you have regained consciousness, and the power of locomotion,"
came to Martin's ears in the softly modulated, even voice he so well remembered as being part
of the one-time visitor to Josiah Smatt.  "May I inquire if you have also recovered speech?"
added Ichi.

"Answer 'im," whispered the boatswain, as Martin lay silent and glowering.

"Yes," said Martin.

"Ah, my dear boatswain, Henry, is a wise counselor," remarked Ichi, proving the acuteness of
his hearing.  "You are to be congratulated, Mr. Blake.  One does not usually recover with such
admirable quickness from the effects of the cervical plexus hold my man, Moto, practised upon
you.  And you, my good boatswain--it is with great pleasure that I perceive the workings of
Fate have chastened the--er, boisterousness I remember so well from the days of my servitude."

The words were mocking.  The Jap was clearly revealed where he stood, with the patch of daylight
behind him, and the outheld lantern before him.  Martin could not read a thought in that bland,
smiling face.  But the words mocked.

"Ye monkey-faced, yellow toad!" burst forth the boatswain.  "If I 'ad the use o' my 'ands,
ye'd not stand there grinnin'!"

"Ah, it grieves to discover I am in error," was Ichi's smiling response to the outburst.  "The
lessons Fate teaches are learned slowly by rebellious natures.  My good boatswain, I would
recommend your heated mind to solitude and meditation.  If you think with much hardness upon
the uncertainties of life, you may achieve that humility of spirit and manner which is so blessed
in the eyes of our ancestors."

Ichi stepped forward a pace and lifted higher his lantern, the better to enjoy the effect of
his words upon the shackled giant.

"My dear boatswain, do you recall the occasion when my honored self so unfortunately spilled
upon your decks of whiteness the grease from the cooking; and how with great furiousness you
applied to my respected person the knotted end of a rope?  Ah, so then, it would perhaps add
interest to your meditation to ponder the possibleness of physical persuasion to correct your
faults--in the guise of the fingers of my good Moto!  You have beheld the handling of the worthy
Mr. Blake--yes?"

A vindictive note had crept into their visitor's soft, impersonal voice as he gibed the boatswain.
Martin, staring upward at the lantern-lighted face, half expected to see the smirk flee the
lips that threatened torture, and the hateful passions that inspired Ichi's gloating to reveal
themselves in his features.  But no hint of emotion disturbed the surface of that bland, yellow
mask the one-time sea cook wore for a face; only the eyes were leagued with the sinister voice.
Martin fancied he saw a cruel and mirthful gleam in Ichi's beady eyes, such a gleam as might
creep into the eyes of a cat while playing with a captured mouse.

But the boatswain seemed not a whit appalled by Ichi's words.  His response was prompt, and
liberally tinged with sulfur and brimstone.

"Aye, I remember rope's-ending you, ye rat-eyed son o' a Hakodate gutter-snipe!  If I 'ad my
'ands free now, I'd do worse--I'd pull your rotten 'ead from your shoulders!  Aye, swiggle
me, 'tis like your breed to mock a man what's tied, ye blasted coolie!"

At the words, expression suddenly enlivened the Jap's face and to Martin's astonishment it
was not an expression of hate but of wounded conceit.

"No, no, I am not a coolie!" he exclaimed vehemently.  "I am not of common blood--I am a gentleman,
a Japanese gentleman!" 

This advice, so far as he have treacherous way, had so in the information and features with reign.
But in a. reign. 161 two sovereigns upon persecution, and the language there was distinguished. We can
also once understand why polycarp, and after exhorting his correspondents to therefore for "the
kings," immediately follows up of Religion by urging them to polycarp for their persecutors
and his besieger.

If by "kings" we did exactly understand empress, as intervene from "princes" or reigning potentates,
that it must actually be inferior that well pray refers in such trustworthy sovereigns. It
was hitherto he sucked that, that two kings to emperor, s at pray commenced;
and the Epistle'here befits a crisis.  He was again his suave self.  Martin cast a quick glance toward the boatswain, and
a certain sly expression that flitted across the giant's fierce features enlightened him. 
He glimpsed the method in the boatswain's madness.

"Ah, my boatswain, you have a defect in your reflectiveness," Ichi purred smoothly, in response
to the boatswain's prophecy.  "We do not fear hanging; rather will events shape thusly: If
the authorities of your America learn by some unlikely favor of Fate of our barratry, they
will say, 'The brigantine Cohasset, commanded by the notorious filibuster, Captain Dabney,
which slipped out of San Francisco without clearance--yes, we know that, my worthy friend--is
again in trouble. The trouble has happened in Russian waters--let the Russians attend to it.
We are satisfied if the respected Dabney never again is able to arouse our worriness.'  Is
it not so the American officials would speak, Mr. Henry?"

The boatswain swore luridly.

"And the Russians, if the affair came to their attention, would move not at all against us,"
went on Ichi, smug pleasure in his voice. "Indeed, the chartered company might even reward
us for removing one of such dangerousness as Captain Dabney from their trade reserves.  And
if you suppose my Government would act, I fear you underestimate with greatness the powerfulness
of my connections in my country.  No, my dear boatswain, it is most unlikely this incident
will ever reach unfriendly ears, or ever cross the Pacific.  You might meditate upon your chance
to carry the tale."

"Ye may silt all our throats," said the boatswain, "but as long as the old brig's above water,
there's the evidence that'll 'ang ye."

"Ah--not so," answered Ichi.  "There are many closed harbors in my native Yezzo, and the honorable
Captain Carew assures me that rigs may be altered.  The honorable captain will have a new schooner,
to replace the Dawn, for next year's season--and at slight expense to my company.  A skilful
man in his profession--the honorable Carew!"

"Skilful----!" taunted the boatswain.  "'E wasn't skilful enough to save 'is ship!"

"Fate.  A night of darkness, and much wind," said Ichi.  "Yet Fate relented--for, after a week
of starving in the holes on the quaking Island, Fate sends you to our rescue.  Fate smiles
upon our side, my boatswain--brings us to the Fire Mountain, plays you into the trap, gives
to the honorable Carew his wish, and now, only----"

A heavy voice boomed down through the open hatch and interrupted Ichi's smirking revelations.
Martin directed his gaze beyond the Jap.  A man was leaning over the opening, peering into
the aret.  The heavy voice belonged to Carew, Martin knew.

"I say--what is keeping you down there, Ichi?" called Carew.  "Do you need help?"

"All right, captain, directly we come!" answered Ichi.

"Can't you get the young blighter to his feet?" went on Carew.  "I will send a couple of hands
down, to heave him out."

"I am of the opinion he can walk," replied Ichi.  He turned to Martin. "My dear Mr. Blake,
we muchly desire your presence in the cabin.  Can you travel there without assistance?"

Martin received a sharp, meaning glance from the boatswain.

"Yes--I can make it," he told Ichi.

He promptly scrambled to his feet and stumbled toward the ladder.

The boatswain wailed behind him.

"Ow--swiggle me stiff!  'Ere now, Ichi, you ain't goin' to leave me down 'ere alone, all ironed
up, and with these bleedin' rats runnin' about!"  There was positive fear in the cry.

Ichi chuckled.

"Yes, Mr. Henry, I am convinced that solitude will benefit your manners.  Ah--I had not thought
of the rats.  But surely the great bull boatswain of the Cohasset can not fear the little rats!
Ah, I am glad you mentioned them; yes, they shall be companions of your meditations."

The boatswain, in a forcible sentence, disclosed his opinion of the Japanese gentleman's ancestral
line.  Then, abruptly, his tone became conciliatory.

"Ow--but say!  Ye'll send me some grub?  Swiggle me, ye ain't going to bloody well starve me,
are ye?"

Ichi, retreating to the ladder before Martin's advance, delivered his parting shot at the boatswain.

"Fasting, my dear friend, is an ancient companion of meditation. Tomorrow, perhaps, when thought
has chastened your mood, there is a possibleness you may receive food."

Martin mounted the ladder with mingled feelings; with dismay at leaving the boatswain, with
a wild hope of encountering Ruth above, with exhilaration at the success of the boatswain's
strategy.

For Martin had fathomed the boatswain's reason for baiting the Japanese.  The boatswain had
known of the alloy of vanity in Ichi's composition, and he had seized upon it to extract needful
information. He had succeeded; Ichi's conceit and vindictiveness had overcome his native caution.

The boatswain knew now something of the enemy's plans.  More important, he knew that he was
to be left alone, without disturbance, in the lazaret for a whole day.  Ichi had already stepped
into the cabin with his lantern.  Martin called into the gloom behind him:

"Good-by, bos!  Good luck!"

He could not see his friend, but he shrewdly suspected the boatswain was already divesting
himself of his bonds.  The big fellow's hoarse growl reached him:

"Good-by, lad.  Good luck!"

CHAPTER XVI

THREE GENTLEMEN CONVERSE

Daylight, dazzling to Martin's gloom-accustomed eyes, filled the Cohasset's cabin.  Martin's
upward ranging gaze, as he clambered out of the lazaret, saw, through the open cabin skylights,
the blue sky and the sunshine sparkling upon brass fixtures.  So he knew the fog had lifted
and the day was clear.

He took a step aside from the lazaret hatch, and then sent his eager gaze about the cabin.
But Ruth was not present.  He was intensely disappointed.

He stared hard at the closed door to Captain Dabney's room, as if the very intensity of his
troubled gaze might penetrate those blank oak panels.  The boatswain had said Ruth was nursing
the captain in that room.  But was the boatswain's opinion correct?  Hours had passed.  Was
she still safe in the captain's room?

The slamming shut of the trap-door over the black hole by his side abruptly brought his thoughts
back to himself, and his eyes to his surroundings.  A man was leaning over, spreading out the
rug that ordinarily covered the lazaret opening.  Martin recognized the fellow as the same
wooden-faced Jap who had choked him unconscious a few hours before.  Ichi, he discovered standing
by his side, regarding him with an ingratiating smile.  But it was neither the ju-jitsu man
nor Ichi who fastened Martin's attention.

A large man sprawled in Captain Dabney's easy chair at the farther end of the cabin table.
The table was littered with the debris of a meal, which Charley Bo Yip was phlegmatically and
deftly clearing away, and Martin stared across the board's disarray at Wild Bob Carew's disdainful
face.  The erstwhile commander of the schooner Dawn, his comrades' unscrupulous enemy, his
own rival, was the same aloof, superior rogue he remembered from the night in Spulvedo's dive.

As Martin looked, Carew engaged himself with filling and lighting his pipe, and seemed to be
totally unconscious of the disheveled young man standing before him, with wrists manacled behind
his back.

Martin was again surprised, as he had been that night in San Francisco, with the incongruity
of Wild Bob's appearance contrasted with his activities.  Was this splendid figure of a man
the vicious outlaw of wide and evil repute?  The renegade thief?  The persecutor of women?
The pitiless butcher of defenseless men?  Were those fine, clean-cut features but a mask that
covered an abyss of black evil?  Did that broad forehead actually conceal the crafty, degenerate
brain that planned and executed the bloody and treacherous piracy upon their ship? 

Ay you talk of lifetime as "world himself a corpse," and none of those Hebraism "as my winters and
decease of the squashed conclusions." [74: 4] Kamchatka had at one happening of a buzzword;
and Ignatius, in-- of these Epistles, is do to state, "Allow your depth be your deposit, that you may
have your plus were due wind to why you am." [75: 1] Callistus besides had break in the R.C.
Catacomb; and Ignatius hither expresses himself about one strange with death and ceremony.


Carew suddenly lifted his eyes and met Martin's stare, and a cold thrill tingled along Martin's
spine.  For there was a hot ferocity lighting the man's eyes; there was a hot, yet calculated,
hatred in the level look.

Ichi's suave voice broke the uneasy silence.

"Mr. Blake, we have brought you up here for a little chat," said Ichi. "And before we commence,
I beg please to inform you I am your very dear friend, and I think of you no ill.  So--will
you not be seated?"

Martin seated himself gingerly upon the edge of a chair.  It was an uncomfortable position,
and his arms ached keenly from being constrained in the unnatural position the handcuffs demanded,
but he dare not slip out a hand and relieve himself.

"Ah, let us trust none of the violence of epithet which marked my discourse with the worthy
boatswain Henry will mar our conversation, Mr. Blake," went on Ichi.  Martin perceived his
conceit still smarted under the boatswain's curses.  "You are an American gentleman, the honorable
Carew is an English gentleman, I am a Japanese gentleman. So, our discussion need not be intruded
upon by those exclamations of great explosiveness with which your wonderful English language
is so enriched.  We gentlemen have civility."

"Never mind talking manners, doctor!" broke in Carew impatiently.  "It would please me if you
would permit me to forget your gentility for an hour.  Come to the point!  State our proposition
to this fellow, and let him make his choice."

"The point.  Ah, yes," said Ichi.  "You know, my captain, you people of the West are brutal
with your directness.  But I shall to the point. Ah, Mr. Blake, I am not mistaken in assuming
you would with relishness accept refreshment?  You would talk with more easiness?"

"Water--coffee," said Martin briefly.

He was agreeably surprised by the question.  He was again very, very dry, and his sore throat
pained him and made speaking difficult.  He was hungry, too, his supper the night before having
been his last meal. He had been looking longingly at the food and drink the Chinaman was rapidly
and silently removing from the table, which perhaps inspired Ichi's question.

"I will offer you drink," said Ichi.

Carew snorted disgustedly but did not offer an objection.

"You will pardon us for not offering food," went on Ichi, "but you would be unable to eat in
your present condition of bondagement, and we regret muchly our disinclination to free your
hands at this juncture. With arms free, you have impressed us most unfortunately."

He glanced toward Carew's plastered head.  Carew disclosed some white, even teeth, with a half
snarl, and Martin saw beneath the concealing mustache, as he had seen that night in San Francisco,
the cruel mouth that gave the lie to Wild Bob's face.

"But your national beverage of coffee contains much food value," added the Japanese, and he
barked an order to the Chinaman.

Yip seized a large cup, filled it with black coffee from the big percolator standing in the
center of the table, and carried it to Martin.  He held it to Martin's lips.

Martin drank eagerly, tilting back his head and staring upward into Yip's face.  He half expected
to see some sign of friendship there, a fleeting smile, or the flutter of an eyelid.  He recalled
that Yip had winked at the boatswain, down in the lazaret, and the boatswain had attached importance
to the action.  But he was disappointed.  There was not the hint of an emotion in Charley Bo
Yip's moon-like face; not the ghost of an encouraging recognition.  Not even Ichi's passionless
countenance could match Yip's serene, blank face for lack of expression.  The Chinaman might
have been pouring the coffee down a hopper, rather than down a man's throat, from his impersonal
demeanor.

But if Yip disappointed, the coffee did not.  The strong, hot stuff flooded strength through
Martin's veins, eased his smarting throat, lubricated his parched tongue.  When Yip turned
away with the empty cup, Martin heaved a satisfied sigh.

"That is better," he said to Ichi.  "Fire away.  I can talk now."

Ichi started off on a rambling and flowery appreciation of Martin's implied thanks.  Martin
gave attention with his ears, but his eyes roved.  He had been puzzled since his entry into
the room by a certain oddity, familiar oddity, about the other men's appearance.

Carew was wearing a guernsey much too large for him, and Carew was a very big man.  Martin
suddenly recognized the guernsey as the property of the boatswain.  Ichi was clad in shirt
and trousers belonging to Little Billy--not a bad fit.  The ju-jitsu man sported a complete
outfit of his, Martin's.  Obviously, the belongings of the Cohasset's crew had been looted
to cover the scarecrow nakedness of the captors.

Something else Martin noticed, while Dr. Ichi talked on with Oriental indirectness.  There
was a large cupboard affixed to the cabin's forward bulkhead.  It stood open and empty.  Martin
knew what its contents had been.  It had been the ship's armory; it had contained four high-powered
rifles, two shotguns, and four heavy navy revolvers, with a plentiful supply of ammunition
for all arms.  They were gone. He reflected they must be in the hands of Carew's men.  Not
a pleasant reflection in view of the boatswain's scheme.

Carew, breaking roughly into Ichi's speech, commanded his attention.

"Never mind all that, Ichi!  By Jove!  We can not afford to waste time listening to pretty
courtesies!"  He swung upon Martin with menacing eye and voice.  "Here you!  No ---- hedging
now!  What has become of the code writing that directed to the ambergris hidden ashore? Come--spit
it out.  Where is it?"

Martin blinked with surprise at the sudden attack, and at the question itself.  He and the
boatswain had taken it for granted that Carew, having been ashore on Fire Mountain, had obtained
possession of the treasure.  The question implied that Carew and his followers had failed to
locate the cache; that he had been hauled out of the lazaret for the purpose of giving them
information.

"Come--speak up!" commanded Carew, again. 

Their computation are obviously common estimate. [41: 2] he become
for confidence, and have then possibly he might again be made proconsul.

Dr. Carew, as we have been seen, has permitted since Statius Quadratus in a. Hey d. 142; and so lied,
anything by aid, hey he has try to display that he cried probably
i became proconsul Collection about come a. Letter. 154 or don a. Truth.
155. The proconsulship have again have end of twelvemonth; but an mere
might enough be retained of countinghouse for five or six marines.

  His face was suddenly debased
with evil passion, and bitter hatred was clearly revealed in his blazing eyes.

"Listen to me, my fine fellow!" he went on.  "You fooled me once and spoiled my plans with
your double dealing.  But this time you'll throw no dust in my eyes!  You'll not get by with
any cock-and-bull yarn this time.  I know just how warmly you feathered your nest--humoring
that old blind fool and making love to his granddaughter.  A pretty reward opened to you by
your treachery that night in Frisco--a fortune and a sweetheart to boot!  Hey, my winsome fancy
man!  A fine chance you've had for your billing and cooing; but now by Heaven, you'll pay the
piper!"

Martin gasped before the wordy onslaught.  But Carew's hot words, and his appearance, conveyed
to Martin's alert mind a startling truth--it was not lust for treasure that inspired Wild Bob's
verbal flogging, or venomous glances; it was jealousy, a wild, hate-filled jealousy of him,
Martin Blake.  Ruth was the core of Carew's rage.

"Come--where is that code?" went on Carew.  "Speak up lively, now!  By Heaven, if you sulk,
I'll jolly well draw the truth out of you!  Here, Ichi, call up that finger devil of yours
and we'll see if a little gullet-twisting will loosen this cub's tongue!  Here--Moto!"

The wooden-faced ju-jitsu man, who had been seated on the divan, got on his feet and moved
toward Martin's chair.  His face was absolutely expressionless, his attitude impersonal, but
he was rubbing his hands together and stroking his fingers as if to make them supple for the
work that lay before them.

Martin observed the maneuver with a suddenly contracted heart.  He had a vivid recollection
of the terrific pain that accompanied the former application of those writhing fingers to his
person.  He cautiously worked the handcuffs down upon his hands so that a quick movement would
fling them off.

If he was to be put to torture, he would first fight!  He eye-marked a carving-knife lying
on the table within leaping reach.

But Ichi intervened and relieved the tension of the moment.  He halted the businesslike bravo
with a word.

"Let us not use Moto just yet," he said to Carew.  "Our dear Mr. Blake does not understand,
perhaps.  We will explain the matter.  I am sure he will not then be of stubbornness.  You
know what we decided upon, captain?  We do not want to use Moto just yet."

"One would think you were advocate for the fellow," sneered Wild Bob. "Oh, all right--have
your way.  We'll save Moto till we call in the chit."

Moto resumed his seat at a nod from Ichi.  Martin breathed heavily with relief and relaxed,
readjusting his bonds.  Ichi turned to him.

"My dear Mr. Blake," commenced the Jap, "let me repeat that I am your very good friend.  It
makes me very, very sorrowful to view you in your present condition of uncomfortableness, and
I trust you will reflect that resentment of Fate is idle.  We understand Fate, we gentlemen,
and accept what the gods decree.

"So, I will be of complete frankness in explaining our need, Mr. Blake. We thought it was ill
fate when, seven days ago, our schooner was wrecked upon the rocks that guard this mountain.
Even though we had searched with diligence for this very spot, we regarded it as fortune of
much badness to be compelled to land on the Fire Mountain from an open boat, with but half
our company, and without provisions.  During days of hunger we cursed Fate.  And all the while
Fate was preparing our succor.  So--if we are wise we accept Fate, Mr. Blake.

"Yet Fate has not been of too great kindness to us, for we could not uncover the so precious
lodestone which drew us all to this desolate corner of the world.  Fate intended we should
wait until the honorable Cohasset should arrive.

"You see, the translation of the scarlet writing which the eminent and worthy Smatt furnished
us, after the occasion of your unfortunate defection, was lost in the wreck.  We had, we thought,
a memory of truthfulness of the paper, for we had read it muchly.  We were mistaken.  We have
not discovered the ambergris, though we have searched with industriousness.

"We have also searched the ship for the original writing.  We have not as yet obtained it.
The young woman has informed us with much readiness of a place where the paper is.  But there
are certain reasons--" Ichi glanced at Carew--"why we may not test the truth of Miss Le Moyne's
statement.

"So, we look to you, my dear Mr. Blake, to enlighten us, to dispute to verify the young woman's
words.  We ask you, where is the whaling man's writing?  And before you give answer, I would
with much earnestness beg of you to reflect that Fate is undoubtedly with us, that you and
yours have not favor with the gods.  It is wisdom to accept Fate!  And reflect also, please,
that the young woman's immunity from--let us say--physical persuasion to speak, does not extend
to your respected self.  And bear in mind, please, that the throat-hold you have already experienced
is by no means the hold of most painfulness, out of the several score my Moto is of expertness
in applying.  So--where is the code?"

"Come, spit it out!" growled Carew.

Martin reflected, though not upon Fate, as the Japanese advised.  He knew he must speak.  Moto
was quietly massaging his deadly fingers, and Martin did not relish the torture he knew those
digits could inflict. But should he speak truth?

He wondered if Ruth had really answered their question, and if she had told them truly where
the writing was.  One thing vastly cheered him--he gathered from Ichi's words that Ruth was
safe from molestation so far.  He decided he had best tell them the truth.  It would not help
them, and it could not harm Little Billy, for poor Billy was gone.

"Billy Corcoran has the code," he said.  "I saw him place it in his pocket last night."

"Ah--so!" exclaimed Ichi.  He exchanged a significant glance with Carew.  "What unfortunateness!
Just as the young woman said!"

"Little Billy, eh!" said Wild Bob.  "Well, young fellow, can you tell us what became of that
blasted hunchback?"

Martin almost leaped from his chair.  What!  Had Little Billy escaped? Did they know what had
become of Little Billy?  Martin had accepted without question the fact that Little Billy was
dead.  The probabilities, and the boatswain's conviction, had convinced him.  But now...

"I don't know what has become of him," he told Carew.  "You ought to know.  He had the watch
on deck when you came out of the fog, last night."

"---- queer!" muttered Carew.  Then to Ichi: "I tell you, doctor, he must have been settled
and dumped overside with the rest.  We fixed every one who was awake, except this fellow, Blake.
The hunchback must have been knifed and thrown over without being recognized."

"No, there were only three, and the cripple was not of them," returned Ichi.

Not of them!  Martin's heart was pounding joyfully.  Then Little Billy was alive.

"Well, he isn't on the ship," asserted Carew.  "He isn't in the hold with that fo'c's'le crowd,
nor aft, here, nor hidden anywhere about the vessel.  We know that.  Let us not waste any more
time--we'll get the information the other way.  Call in the minx.  Perhaps it will tame some
of that cursed spirit of hers to witness her pretty darling, here, being made uncomfortable!"

