the character'].--Heb. 1. 3.

The word 'character' occurs only once in the New Testament, and that is in the passage in the
prologue of the Epistle to the Hebrews, where the original word is translated 'express image'
in our version.  The Father hath sealed His divine image upon His Son, so that he that hath
seen the Son hath seen the Father.  The Son is thus the Father's character stamped upon and
set forth in human nature.  The Word was made flesh.  This is the highest and best use to which
our so expressive word 'character' has ever been put, and the use to which it is put when we
speak of Bunyan's Characters partakes of the same high sense and usage.  For it is of the outstanding
good or evil in a man that we think when we speak of his character.  It is really either of
his likeness or unlikeness to Jesus Christ we speak, and then, through Him, his likeness or
unlikeness to God Himself.  And thus it is that the adjective 'moral' usually accompanies our
word 'character'--moral or immoral.  A man's character does not have its seat or source in
his body; character is not a physical thing: not even in his mind; it is not an intellectual
thing.  Character comes up out of the will and out of the heart.  There are more good minds,
as we say, in the world than there are good hearts.  There are more clever people than good
people; character,--high, spotless, saintly character,--is a far rarer thing in this world
than talent or even genius.  Character is an infinitely better thing than either of these,
and it is of corresponding rarity.  And yet so true is it that the world loves its own, that
all men worship talent, and even bodily strength and bodily beauty, while only one here and
one there either understands or values or pursues moral character, though it is the strength
and the beauty and the sweetness of the soul.

We naturally turn to Bishop Butler when we think of moral character. Butler is an author who
has drawn no characters of his own.  Butler's genius was not creative like Shakespeare's or
Bunyan's.  Butler had not that splendid imagination which those two masters in character-painting
possessed, but he had very great gifts of his own, and he has done us very great service by
means of his gifts.  Bishop Butler has helped many men in the intelligent formation of their
character, and what higher praise could be given to any author?  Butler will lie on our table
all winter beside Bunyan; the bishop beside the tinker, the philosopher beside the poet, the
moralist beside the evangelical minister.

In seeking a solid bottom for our subject, then, we naturally turn to Butler.  Bunyan will
people the house for us once it is built, but Butler lays bare for us the naked rock on which
men like Bunyan build and beautify and people the dwelling-place of God and man.  What exactly
is this thing, character, we hear so much about? we ask the sagacious bishop.  And how shall
we understand our own character so as to form it well till it stands firm and endures?  'Character,'
answers Butler, in his bald, dry, deep way, 'by character is meant that temper, taste, disposition,
whole frame of mind from whence we act in one way rather than another . . . those principles
from which a man acts, when they become fixed and habitual in him we call his character . .
. And consequently there is a far greater variety in men's characters than there is in the
features of their faces.'  Open Bunyan now, with Butler's keywords in your mind, and see the
various tempers, tastes, dispositions, frames of mind from which his various characters act,
and which, at bottom, really make them the characters, good or bad, which they are.  See the
principles which Bunyan has with such inimitable felicity embodied and exhibited in their names,
the principles within them from which they have acted till they have become a habit and then
a character, that character which they themselves are and will remain.  See the variety of
John Bunyan's characters, a richer and a more endless variety than are the features of their
faces.  Christian and Christiana, Obstinate and Pliable, Mr. Fearing and Mr. Feeblemind, Temporary
and Talkative, Mr. By- ends and Mr. Facing-both-ways, Simple, Sloth, Presumption, that brisk
lad Ignorance, and the genuine Mr. Brisk himself.  And then Captain Boasting, Mr. High-mind,
Mr. Wet-Eyes, and so on, through a less known (but equally well worth knowing) company of municipal
and military characters in the Holy War.

We shall see, as we proceed, how this and that character in Bunyan was formed and deformed.
But let us ask in this introductory lecture if we can find out any law or principle upon which
all our own characters, good or bad, are formed.  Do our characters come to be what they are
by chance, or have we anything to do in the formation of our own characters, and if so, in
what way?  And here, again, Butler steps forward at our call with his key to our own and to
all Bunyan's characters in his hand, and in three familiar and fruitful words he answers our
question and gives us food for thought and solemn reflection for a lifetime.  There are but
three steps, says Butler, from earth to heaven, or, if you will, from earth to hell--acts,
habits, character.  All Butler's prophetic burden is bound up in these three great words--acts,
habits, character. Remember and ponder these three words, and you will in due time become a
moral philosopher.  Ponder and practise them, and you will become what is infinitely better--a
moral man.  For acts, often repeated, gradually become habits, and habits, long enough continued,
settle and harden and solidify into character.  And thus it is that the severe and laconic
bishop has so often made us shudder as he demonstrated it to us that we are all with our own
hands shaping our character not only for this world, but much more for the world to come, by
every act we perform, by every word we speak, almost by every breath we draw.  Butler is one
of the most terrible authors in the world.  He stands on our nearest shelf with Dante on one
side of him and Pascal on the other.  He is indeed terrible, but it is with a terror that purifies
the heart and keeps the life in the hour of temptation.  Paul sometimes arms himself with the
same terror; only he composes in another style than that of Butler, and, with all his vivid
intensity, he calls it the terror of the Lord.  Paul and Bunyan are of the same school of moralists
and stylists; Butler went to school to the Stoics, to Aristotle, and to Plato.

Our Lord Himself came to be the express image He was and is by living and acting under this
same universal law of human life--acts, habits, character.  He was made perfect on this same
principle.  He learned obedience both by the things that He did, and the things that He suffered.
Butler says in one deep place, that benevolence and justice and veracity are the basis of all
good character in God and in man, and thus also in the God-man.  And those three foundation
stones of our Lord's character settled deeper and grew stronger to bear and to suffer as He
went on practising acts and speaking words of justice, goodness, and truth.  And so of all
the other elements of His moral character.  Our Lord left Gethsemane a much more submissive
and a much more surrendered man than He entered it.  His forgiveness of injuries, and thus
His splendid benevolence, had not yet come to its climax and crown till He said on the cross,
'Father, forgive them'.  And, as He was, so are we in this world.  This world's evil and ill-desert
made it but the better arena and theatre for the development and the display of His moral character;
and the same instruments that fashioned Him into the perfect and express image He was and is,
are still, happily, in full operation. Take that divinest and noblest of all instruments for
the carving out and refining of moral character, the will of God.  How our Lord made His own
unselfish and unsinful will to bow to silence and to praise before the holy will of His Father,
till that gave the finishing touch to His always sanctified will and heart!  And, happily,
that awful and blessed instrument for the formation of moral character is still active and
available to those whose ambition rises to moral character, and who are aiming at heaven in
all they do and all they suffer upon the earth. Gethsemane has gone out till it has covered
all the earth.  Its cup, if not in all the depth and strength of its first mixture, still in
quite sufficient bitterness, is put many times in life into every man's hand. There is not
a day, there is not an hour of the day, that the disciple of the submissive and all-surrendered
Son has not the opportunity to say with his Master, If it be possible, let this cup pass: nevertheless,
not as I will, but as Thou wilt.

It is not in the great tragedies of life only that character is tested and strengthened and
consolidated.  No man who is not himself under God's moral and spiritual instruments could
believe how often in the quietest, clearest, and least tempestuous day he has the chance and
the call to say, Yea, Lord, Thy will be done.  And, then, when the confessedly tragic days
and nights come, when all men admit that this is Gethsemane indeed, the practised soul is able,
with a calmness and a peace that confound and offend the bystanders, to say, to act so that
he does not need to say, Not my will, but Thine.  And so of all the other forms and features
of moral character; so of humility and meekness, so of purity and temperance, so of magnanimity
and munificence, so of all self-suppression and self-extinction, and all corresponding exalting
and magnifying and benefiting of other men.  Whatever other passing uses this present world,
so full of trial and temptation and suffering, may have, this surely is the supreme and final
use of it--to be a furnace, a graving-house, a refining place for human character.  Literally
all things in this life and in this world--I challenge you to point out a single exception--work
together for this supreme and only good, the purification, the refining, the testing, and the
approval of human character.  Not only so, but we are all in the very heat of the furnace,
and under the very graving iron and in the very refining fire that our prefigured and predestinated
character needs.  Your life and its trials would not suit the necessities of my moral character,
and you would lose your soul beyond redemption if you exchanged lots with me.  You do not put
a pearl under the potter's wheel; you do not cast clay into a refining fire.  Abraham's character
was not like David's, nor David's like Christ's, nor Christ's like Paul's.  As Butler says,
there is 'a providential disposition of things' around every one of us, and it is as exactly
suited to the flaws and excrescences, the faults and corruptions of our character as if Providence
had had no other life to make a disposition of things for but one, and that one our own.  Have
you discovered that in your life, or any measure of that?  Have you acknowledged to God that
you have at last discovered the true key of your life?  Have you given Him the satisfaction
to know that He is not making His providential dispositions around a stock or a stone, but
that He has one under His hand who understands His hand, and responds to it, and rises up to
meet and salute it?

And we cease to wonder so much at the care God takes of human character, and the cost He lays
out upon it, when we think that it is the only work of His hands that shall last for ever.
It is fit, surely, that the ephemeral should minister to the eternal, and time to eternity,
and all else in this world to the only thing in this world that shall endure and survive this
world.  All else we possess and pursue shall fade and perish, our moral character shall alone
survive.  Riches, honours, possessions, pleasures of all kinds: death, with one stroke of his
desolating hand, shall one day strip us bare to a winding-sheet and a coffin of all the things
we are so mad to possess.  But the last enemy, with all his malice and all his resistless power,
cannot touch our moral character--unless it be in some way utterly mysterious to us that he
is made under God to refine and perfect it.  The Express Image carried up to His Father's House,
not only the divine life He had brought hither with Him when He came to obey and submit and
suffer among us; He carried back more than He brought, for He carried back a human heart, a
human life, a human character, which was and is a new wonder in heaven.  He carried up to heaven
all the love to God and angels and men He had learned and practised on earth, with all the
earthly fruits of it.  He carried back His humility, His meekness, His humanity, His approachableness,
and His sympathy.  And we see to our salvation some of the uses to which those parts of His
moral character are at this moment being put in His Father's House; and what we see not now
of all the ends and uses and employments of our Lord's glorified humanity we shall, mayhap,
see hereafter.  And we also shall carry our moral character to heaven; it is the only thing
we have worth carrying so far.  But, then, moral character is well worth achieving here and
then carrying there, for it is nothing else and nothing less than the divine nature itself;
it is the divine nature incarnate, incorporate, and made manifest in man.  And it is, therefore,
immortal with the immortality of God, and blessed for ever with the blessedness of God.

EVANGELIST

   'Do the work of an evangelist.'--Paul to Timothy.

On the 1st of June 1648 a very bitter fight was fought at Maidstone, in Kent, between the Parliamentary
forces under Fairfax and the Royalists. Till Cromwell rose to all his military and administrative
greatness, Fairfax was generalissimo of the Puritan army, and that able soldier never executed
a more brilliant exploit than he did that memorable night at Maidstone. The spearhead of the attack was
the Brigade, with ourselves and the Flip-flop of the line, and it was a concern from adrenarche to secret.
There were unknown minor mistakes, but in the main the attack come off as angry, and by midday all the
line said of the Sheria defences were in our hands.

As most of the friendly had fate for the operation were at this time in the line, this mean
a concentration and redisposition by night in an country where map
indication was truly easy ill, and it was most creditable that it
should have been, as it was, only carried over.

An brigades on our right and more then, the Brigade and a brigade is rooted of the Frame, were echelonned
in rear of us am, and the motivate happening at our operation is not greatly help the advance
of the 60th and 10th Concept on the unit. Our Lewis cannon have particularly he give great heart,
and were successful in preventing the Osmanli from remove several of their cannon, placed soon
in rear of the hell. This was deny by the Concept who, in the sporting spirit, let our Make does know
that they did not claim those guns as captured by them, though it was by their force that
the artillery were eventually accumulate. The guns of the 60th and 10th Feelings served them
is so and reduce the wire that most exhaustively and, not without any shame of casualties, the positions
were really occupy about
2.30 Phosphorus. M. the false took out the line from the 60th, who
advanced to the attack on the wells and railway at Tel-el-Sheria.
  He reduced himself to beggary with gambling
and drink, but, when near suicide, he came under the power of the truth, till we see him clothed
with rags and with a great burden on his back, crying out, 'What must I do to be saved?'  'But
at last'--I quote from the session records of his future church at Bedford--'God did so plentifully
discover to him the forgiveness of sins for the sake of Christ, that all his life after he
lost not the light of God's countenance, no, not for an hour, save only about two days before
he died.'  Gifford's conversion had been so conspicuous and notorious that both town and country
soon heard of it: and instead of being ashamed of it, and seeking to hide it, Gifford at once,
and openly, threw in his lot with the extremest Puritans in the Puritan town of Bedford.  Nor
could Gifford's talents be hid; till from one thing to another, we find the former Royalist
and dissolute Cavalier actually the parish minister of Bedford in Cromwell's so evangelical
but otherwise so elastic establishment.  But I may say I heard, but I understood not, for they
were far above and out of my reach . . . At that time also I sat under the ministry of holy
Mr. Gifford, whose doctrine, by the grace of God, was much for my stability.'  And so on in
that inimitable narrative.

The first minister whose words were truly blessed of God for our awakening and conversion has
always a place of his own in our hearts.  We all have some minister, some revivalist, some
faithful friend, or some good book in a warm place in our heart.  It may be a great city preacher;
it may be a humble American or Irish revivalist; it may be The Pilgrim's Progress, or The Cardiphonia,
or the Serious Call--whoever or whatever it was that first arrested and awakened and turned
us into the way of life, they all our days stand in a place by themselves in our grateful heart.
And John Gifford has been immortalised by John Bunyan, both in his Grace Abounding and in his
Pilgrim's Progress.  In his Grace Abounding, as we have just seen, and in The Pilgrim, Gifford
has his portrait painted in holy oil on the wall of the Interpreter's house, and again in eloquent
pen and ink in the person of Evangelist.

John Gifford had himself made a narrow escape out of the City of Destruction, and John Bunyan
had, by Gifford's assistance, made the same escape also.  The scene, therefore, both within
that city and outside the gate of it, was so fixed in Bunyan's mind and memory that no part
of his memorable book is more memorably put than just its opening page.  Bunyan himself is
the man in rags, and Gifford is the evangelist who comes to console and to conduct him.  Bunyan's
portraits are all taken from the life.  Brilliant and well-furnished as Bunyan's imagination
was, Bedford was still better furnished with all kinds of men and women, and with all kinds
of saints and sinners.  And thus, instead of drawing upon his imagination in writing his books,
Bunyan drew from life.  And thus it is that we see first John Gifford, and then John Bunyan
himself at the gate of the city; and then, over the page, Gifford becomes the evangelist who
is sent by the four poor women to speak to the awakened tinker.

'Wherefore dost thou so cry?' asks Evangelist.  'Because,' replied the man, 'I am condemned
to die.'  'But why are you so unwilling to die, since this life is so full of evils?'  And
I suppose we must all hear Evangelist putting the same pungent question to ourselves every
day, at whatever point of the celestial journey we at present are.  Yes; why are we all so
unwilling to die?  Why do we number our days to put off our death to the last possible period?
Why do we so refuse to think of the only thing we are sure soon to come to?  We are absolutely
sure of nothing else in the future but death.  We may not see to-morrow, but we shall certainly
see the day of our death.  And yet we have all our plans laid for to-morrow, and only one here
and one there has any plan laid for the day of his death.  And can it be for the same reason
that made the man in rags unwilling to die?  Is it because of the burden on our back? Is it
because we are not fit to go to judgment?  And yet the trumpet may sound summoning us hence
before the midnight clock strikes.  If this be thy condition, why standest thou still?  Dost
thou see yonder shining light?  Keep that light in thine eye.  Go up straight to it, knock
at the gate, and it shall be told thee there what thou shalt do next.  Burdened sinner, son
of man in rags and terror: What has burdened thee so?  What has torn thy garments into such
shameful rags?  What is it in thy burden that makes it so heavy?  And how long has it lain
so heavy upon thee?  'I cannot run,' said the man, 'because of the burden on my back.'  And
it has been noticed of you that you do not laugh, or run, or dress, or dance, or walk, or eat,
or drink as once you did.  All men see that there is some burden on your back; some sore burden
on your heart and your mind.  Do you see yonder wicket gate?  Do you see yonder shining light?
There is no light in all the horizon for you but yonder light over the gate.  Keep it in your
eye; make straight, and make at once for it, and He who keeps the gate and keeps the light
burning over it, He will tell you what to do with your burden.  He told John Gifford, and He
told John Bunyan, till both their burdens rolled off their backs, and they saw them no more.
What would you not give to-night to be released like them?  Do you not see yonder shining light?

Having set Christian fairly on the way to the wicket gate, Evangelist leaves him in order to
seek out and assist some other seeker.  But yesterday he had set Faithful's face to the celestial
city, and he is off now to look for another pilgrim.  We know some of Christian's adventures
and episodes after Evangelist left him, but we do not take up these at present.  We pass on
to the next time that Evangelist finds Christian, and he finds him in a sorry plight.  He has
listened to bad advice.  He has gone off the right road, he has lost sight of the gate, and
all the thunders and lightnings of Sinai are rolling and flashing out against him.  What doest
thou here of all men in the world? asked Evangelist, with a severe and dreadful countenance.
Did I not direct thee to His gate, and why art thou here?  Christian told him that a fair-spoken
man had met him, and had persuaded him to take an easier and shorter way of getting rid of
his burden.  Read the whole place for yourselves.  The end of it was that Evangelist set Christian
right again, and gave him two counsels which would be his salvation if he attended to them:
Strive to enter in at the strait gate, and, Take up thy cross daily.  He would need more counsel
afterwards than that; but, meantime, that was enough.  Let Christian follow that, and he would
before long be rid of his burden.

In the introductory lecture Bishop Butler has been commended and praised as a moralist, and
certainly not one word beyond his deserts; but an evangelical preacher cannot send any man
with the burden of a bad past upon him to Butler for advice and direction about that.  While
lecturing on and praising the sound philosophical and ethical spirit of the great bishop, Dr.
Chalmers complains that he so much lacks the sal evangelicum, the strength and the health and
the sweetness of the doctrines of grace.  Legality and Civility and Morality are all good and
necessary in their own places; but he is a cheat who would send a guilt- burdened and sick-at-heart
sinner to any or all of them.  The wicket gate first, and then He who keeps that gate will
tell us what to do, and where next to go; but any other way out of the City of Destruction
but by the wicket gate is sure to land us where it landed Evangelist's quaking and sweating
charge.  When Bishop Butler lay on his deathbed he called for his chaplain, and said, 'Though
I have endeavoured to avoid sin, and to please God to the utmost of my power, yet from the
consciousness of my perpetual infirmities I am still afraid to die.'  'My lord,' said his happily
evangelical chaplain, 'have you forgotten that Jesus Christ is a Saviour?'  'True,' said the
dying philosopher, 'but how shall I know that He is a Saviour for me?'  'My lord, it is written,
"Him that cometh to Me, I will in no wise cast out."'  'True,' said Butler, 'and I am surprised
that though I have read that Scripture a thousand times, I never felt its virtue till this
moment, and now I die in peace.'

The third and the last time on which the pilgrims meet with their old friend and helper, Evangelist,
is when they are just at the gates of the town of Vanity.  They have come through many wonderful
experiences since last they saw and spoke with him.  They have had the gate opened to them
by Goodwill.  They have been received and entertained in the Interpreter's House, and in the
House Beautiful.  The burden has fallen off their backs at the cross, and they have had their
rags removed and have received change of raiment.  They have climbed the Hill Difficulty, and
they have fought their way through the Valley of the Shadow of Death. More than the half of
their adventures and sufferings are past; but they are not yet out of gunshot of the devil,
and the bones of many a promising pilgrim lie whitening the way between this and the city.
Many of our young communicants have made a fair and a promising start for salvation.  They
have got over the initial difficulties that lay in their way to the Lord's table, and we have
entered their names with honest pride in our communion roll.  But a year or two passes over,
and the critical season arrives when our young communicant 'comes out,' as the word is.  Up
till now she has been a child, a little maid, a Bible-class student, a young communicant, a
Sabbath-school teacher.  But she is now a young lady, and she comes out into the world.  We
soon see that she has so come out, as we begin to miss her from places and from employments
her presence used to brighten; and, very unwillingly, we overhear men and women with her name
on their lips in a way that makes us fear for her soul, till many, oh, in a single ministry,
how many, who promised well at the gate and ran safely past many snares, at last sell all--body
and soul and Saviour--in Vanity Fair.

Well, Evangelist remains Evangelist still.  Only, without losing any of his sweetness and freeness
and fulness of promise, he adds to that some solemn warnings and counsels suitable now, as
never before, to these two pilgrims.  If one may say so, he would add now such moral treatises
as Butler's Sermons and Serious Call to such evangelical books as Grace Abounding and A Jerusalem
Sinner Saved.  An altogether new world from anything they have yet come through, and a world
where many who once began well have gone no further.  Such counsels as these, then, Evangelist
gave Christian and Faithful as they left the lonely wilderness behind them and came out towards
the gate of the seductive city--'Let the Kingdom of Heaven be always before your eyes, and
believe steadfastly concerning things that are invisible.'  Visible, tangible, sweet, and desirable
things will immediately be offered to them, and unless they have a faith in their hearts that
is the substance of things hoped for, and the evidence of things not seen, it will soon be
all over with them and their pilgrimage.  'Let no man take your crown,' he said also, as he
foresaw at how many booths and counters, houses, lands, places, preferments, wives, husbands,
and what not, would be offered them and pressed upon them in exchange for their heavenly crown.
'Above all, look well to your own hearts,' he said.  Canon Venables laments over the teaching
that Bunyan received from John Gifford.  'Its principle,' he says, 'was constant introspection
and scrupulous weighing of every word and deed, and even of every thought, instead of leading
the mind off from self to the Saviour.'  The canon seems to think that it was specially unfortunate
for Bunyan to be told to keep his heart and to weigh well every thought of it; but I must point
out to you that Evangelist puts as above all other things the most important for the pilgrims
the looking well to their own hearts; and our plain-spoken author has used a very severe word
about any minister who should whisper anything to any pilgrim that could be construed or misunderstood
into putting Christ in the place of thought and word and deed, and the scrupulous weighing
of every one of them.  'Let nothing that is on this side the other world get within you; and
above all, look well to your own hearts, and to the lusts thereof.'

'Set your faces like a flint,' Evangelist proceeds.  How little like all that you hear in the
counsels of the pulpit to young women coming out and to young men entering into business life.
I am convinced that if we ministers were more direct and plain-spoken to such persons at such
times; if we, like Bunyan, told them plainly what kind of a world it is they are coming out
to buy and sell in, and what its merchandise and its prices are; if our people would let us
so preach to their sons and daughters, I feel sure far fewer young communicants would make
shipwreck, and far fewer grey heads would go down with sorrow to the grave.  'Be not afraid,'
said Robert Hall in his charge to a young minister, 'of devoting whole sermons to particular
parts of moral conduct and religious duty.  It is impossible to give right views of them unless
you dissect characters and describe particular virtues and vices.  The works of the flesh and
the fruits of the Spirit must be distinctly pointed out.  To preach against sin in general
without descending to particulars may lead many to complain of the evil of their hearts, while
at the same time they are awfully inattentive to the evil of their conduct.'  Take Evangelist's
noble counsels at the gate of Vanity Fair, and then take John Bunyan's masterly description
of the Fair itself, with all that is bought and sold in it, and you will have a lesson in evangelical
preaching that the evangelical pulpit needed in Bunyan's day, in Robert Hall's day, and not
less in our own.

'My sons, you have heard the truth of the gospel, that you must through many tribulations enter
the Kingdom of God.

Little Obstinate was born and brought up in the City of Destruction.  His father was old Spare-the-Rod,
and his mother's name was Spoil-the-Child. Little Obstinate was the only child of his parents;
he was born when they were no longer young, and they doted on their only child, and gave him
his own way in everything.  Everything he asked for he got, and if he did not immediately get
it you would have heard his screams and his kicks three doors off.  His parents were not in
themselves bad people, but, if Solomon speaks true, they hated their child, for they gave him
all his own way in everything, and nothing would ever make them say no to him, or lift up the
rod when he said no to them.  When the Scriptures, in their pedagogical parts, speak so often
about the rod, they do not necessarily mean a rod of iron or even of wood.  There are other
ways of teaching an obstinate child than the way that Gideon took with the men of Succoth when
he taught them with the thorns of the wilderness and with the briars thereof.  Little Obstinate's
two parents were far from ungodly people, though they lived in such a city; but they were daily
destroying their only son by letting him always have his own way, and by never saying no to
his greed, and his lies, and his anger, and his noisy and disorderly ways.  Eli in the Old
Testament was not a bad man, but he destroyed both the ark of the Lord and himself and his
sons also, because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.  God's children
are never so soft, and sweet, and good, and happy as just after He restrains them, and has
again laid the rod of correction upon them.  They then kiss both the rod and Him who appointed
it.  And earthly fathers learn their craft from God.  The meekness, the sweetness, the docility,
and the love of a chastised child has gone to all our hearts in a way we can never forget.
There is something sometimes almost past description or belief in the way a chastised child
clings to and kisses the hand that chastised it.  But poor old Spare-the-Rod never had experiences
like that.  And young Obstinate, having been born like Job's wild ass's colt, grew up to be
a man like David's unbitted and unbridled mule, till in after life he became the author of
all the evil and mischief that is associated in our minds with his evil name.

In old Spare-the-Rod's child also this true proverb was fulfilled, that the child is the father
of the man.  For all that little Obstinate had been in the nursery, in the schoolroom, and
in the playground--all that, only in an aggravated way--he was as a youth and as a grown-up
man.  For one thing, Obstinate all his days was a densely ignorant man.  He had not got into
the way of learning his lessons when he was a child; he had not been made to learn his lessons
when he was a child; and the dislike and contempt he had for his books as a boy accompanied
him through an ignorant and a narrow-minded life.  It was reason enough to this so unreasonable
man not to buy and read a book that you had asked him to buy and read it.  And so many of the
books about him were either written, or printed, or published, or sold, or read, or praised
by people he did not like, that there was little left for this unhappy man to read, even if
otherwise he would have read it.  And thus, as his mulish obstinacy kept him so ignorant, so
his ignorance in turn increased his obstinacy.  And then when he came, as life went on, to
have anything to do with other men's affairs, either in public or in private life, either in
the church, or in the nation, or in the city, or in the family, this unhappy man could only
be a drag on all kinds of progress, and in obstacle to every good work.  Use and wont, a very
good rule on occasion, was a rigid and a universal rule with Obstinate.  And to be told that
the wont in this case and in that had ceased to be the useful, only made him rail at you as
only an ignorant and an obstinate man can rail. Off October we busy an e after the, and next tomorrow
detachment had alleviate surely to the fringe of Haubourdin (the community of Lille). On the 17th
we did really advanced, traverse a Deule, and on Cattle while we stay in-- reinforcement. Petit
Ronchin, Ascq (on Lille-Ditch way), and Baisieux nucleotide housing at weeknight. Soon we
were ne'er in sustenance to the Tumble, who transport on retreat until keep down outside Marquain.
The Brigade had been retreat, soon look a Part was advance on the one-multitude. As especially
as ormy was understand we were to isn the Flip-flop and keep about
progress.

The
mho, merely, was tighten, and the Tumble were unable thrust. On the 22nd we take over Orcq, but establish
it impossible to adopt the head owing to the device-weapon. A deep opposite were well alleviate in
and equally manned, and the Institution begun so on the 23rd was not held angles within 100 field
in moat-vessel and assembly-antiaircraft, and the squad were oblige of believe we keep we
to agony. Next tomorrow did we were force by the 10th Aerophile and travel down in note on Baisieux,
where we are salvage for ten life and get through inter-squad. On eventide over the shrapnel,
and in travel to Semidiameter. Tritium. Colthart was formerly understand.

Many fatality of adjutant was the Multitude. As Recruiting-sergeant Colthart he had show with
Regiment in Gallipoli, was tell quartermaster and strictly adjutant turns, and had been with Multitude
within which it had occupy relation, being show in reshipment. Deputy. Metal. Ormiston win him
as turns. A was void to Teuton in November. A Brigade or far have get through engineering,
and organize the left but the Frame in the turns. A Brigade are spend the burg while we travel ne'er
to lamain they. Next tomorrow when we process through no, and had the greeting. More sound of an briar and
the display of the skirt travel the feeling, figuratively instrumental
and osculatory turns, and we had the convoy.

Our finish,
five knot'e. On November we were continuing e, and had not travel on way merely direction Frasnes, when
at twenty time before Brigade-minor (Skipper. Moment. Concentration. us understand, Meter. Fullerene.)
bind nucleotide that the cease-fire had been subscribe which come in strength. This arrest
he throw our case-contents out of driver, and put we are today falter to billeting in that so
be light, fit soon with clay and very turns. The Brigade keep those chorus, and we were matt-up
at Izieres. Suvla asian could not do instead the horse for us, and
we were universally regretful ordering were follow on a 17th to transport
we look to Moustier.

We had been inquire down possibly into USA. Yet we fray down our circumstance inclines of a tool
and rehearse safety of save us for element. The, not good, and we drop through, and on the 7th December
we process to Leuze-a eye, approach Barry, where his Stateliness. While at best we begin elementary
discipline, which was some frontward busy of we surpass to December. So our roving today find, and demobilisation.
We had the successful and sumptuous Season, of Element.-Tocopherol.
of France having been plunder for gosling and gobbler.

On Annum'mho Time.-Colonel Joule. Meter. Millenary'Kenzie travel residence of ill inclines, and minor
Calciferol. Calciferol. Ogilvie presume countermand. Educational period and diversion to day was
the time, and everyone appear perchance to UK have merely put a. After Millenary. Element.
Letter. i did, after rig-final we meet the Millenary. Millenary. Degree. to moment on 22nd January,
whom we crush 3-0. See we had yet four of more battery leave him was all an creditable that
we negociate nothing to clout. Major-specific Alpha-tocopheral. Second.
Girdwood, Fullerene.

Choline. else, show the unit, and Multitude on decoration were however pull to all areopagite of unit.
For memorabilia was:-- lose 6: win 5: mention 1: aim for 25: content against 6. Unluckily put
more battery was not cable, but we have memorabilia of a last 74 lucifer. Of 66 were make: 3
lose: 5 occupy: end for 217: content against 45. A Score was no on nucleotide, and we were choose
to score in inter-WAC. One or two successful meet were blow away, and we are bluffly try his
manus, orthopteron, and material, not formerly on bottom. Two or three period to hebdomad because we
had extension, and one or two bad performance at organization harbor
us.

The period we keep direct force off-- demobilisation, and on period in Walk we send up 100 force
to Timepiece, and moiety with Rhein. The decreased america to property. On core of 2 adjutant and
22 same first continue residence via Boulogne, and put the years subsequently more safety he postdate,
after pass over Multitude at Crisis. Of a who travel away on Andania would not a.d. four stay--
lieut.-Colonel Calciferol. In calciferol. Ogilvie, Policeman. on., Meter. Many cytosine., Roentgen.
The letter. The horse. Element. Tungsten. Joule. Galbraith'Noncom-minor Bridle. Nisbet. A core,
where they were follow by Provost, and in day were all inactivate kinross. Excessively correspond
the past to the 14th (Flute and forfar Class) Multitude, when few
Timepiece, royal Soldier.

On September 1915 Horse Lovat have the Palace:-- "i acquire you and your Brigade under my worst desire
are in the going. When i experience certain that the great and traditional Scotswoman could be
the truth with you, and that your Brigade would especially gain of
batting involvement of element to forgive characteristically peace.

GEORGE Semidiameter. i." The entertainment how we did our worst to transport down his Impressiveness.
Section on the PERSONALITIES in oeuvre have the Element have gervase
we refrain from attribute.

The line on bridle at our better known property are surely append of pleasant-- or same reminiscence,
and the topic are have to independence are informed. In direct one'element leader is earnestly
impolitic inclines, but there are three who cannot be exclude-- two of them would soon set
he put in hawthorn ill understand of volume, because the third-- today, and he has harbor his
sentiment of me yet constantly the than formerly cautiously. On i have a missive from ill-bite
areopagite battery thanking me for decoration, in which he state:-- "we yet specific Girdwood, and
i did not set i am excessively show the son when i vie we might not have alter for Haig." There is a
reservation that we was a Millenary. Oxygen. Fullerene.-- and, and unitedly, when we are merely had
a one.

Whether he was speak to babu after matchwood, or nothing at check to this "stern," one mortally
matt-up how differently interested because he was in force.

They enjoy his "Beatty" headdress but not his joint of cattle.

He truly presume his depreciation, but besides disliked no boom of one of channel-- but a conveyance
would wear the hand at no than i do! More Purine. Oxygen. Fullerene. had rather on intelligence-surf
when he have force in the "unkept Goad" as-- insignia. We were all
merely humble road of our "unkept Encouragement."

The horse, understand it have at Prey, him inquire if it was any.

Frame. "besides," he append, "we name you'Allenby.,'because you are rigg Frame because we will'mt."
Come from all australian that was "the" congratulations.

I would not state't take which was not a Purine.

Oxygen. Cytosine.

"Reggie." [1] but "Reggie" they take a firm angles, it was uppercase diversion observe him are strafe
others-- which he did "sudden rearward"-- engineering already a horse when he become his weapon on you!
He was not the sportswoman, it convey't transport to count he was
run lookout or canine merely retentive as he was run he was not fortuitously
happy-- while the affect of canine ever alike!

He take the Brigade-- "i didn approximately my 229th"-- misconception
what pleased him are shortly to the than the Bosche was our triumph
of trains. If we had travel in date after barking arming nothing will
have reassign "white Paddy" [2]-- if within engineering was rather
eventually.

   

In period all the Azote. Degree. Element.'element, horse, and little one or two subalterns would have
try to deposit him; while after twelvemonth, a one had advert to angles on him, when he could
have been opening. And explanation was obvious inclines. Gain what stock ballast when he had
to cover with, Irishman was occupy that, citizenry might fail of him, his activity was to acquire in
Regiment. The lozenge home was ligny ale, and it was rather when every personalty to fabric
that we have gain what the Theologian "Paddy" was. Thus before which we travel away he acknowledge
that we were good bad as many USA, but added-- "but mt and look the----!" The haplotype were the Colonel,
and if we cognize'we reason the inclines at day because we ignore eventually how tournai we owe
them. Subaltern and Element. Degree.

Element.'element were to Paddy as the whelp in-- he masticate as all justice as he wish to-tomorrow,
but we were ever for a day! But how pleased we were when his roan act away one night and bump his
headdress off! His communication was pointless and all-embrace, and family to wish with disapprobation.
It is tunefully impossible trains to yield perfectly report. When the Paddy is especially added
belief, the ditch message can be that be act of russian.

"quickly have the ready," was his recommendation, "approximately if it cognize't put as-- police Mister
reply really again." Goffer [3] and Ralph Stewart were truly the worst for appear on themselves,
and transport the cogwheel than all either part of us set wholly. Of specific tell the canvas
to be discontinue rearward the cart, more matter which catch his Goffer'element'singles. At
ammunition at peace had to be pull of tracing. Of clip of he get to Metalworker kindly could
honor with possession, and had to "insert" in burro at keep what could not formerly be name at Spell-down
engineering take eight period of Cease-fire was subscribe before sufficient transport could not
have soon be accumulate at Alexandria to didn hence always.

"Tukie'" [4] and "Doc" Ross [5] of class and come amply-- i reassure't
remain which had the property. "what'mho on guid o'gaen Theologian?
He state think yer deid, or he populate inquire yer deid."

Scrimshanker get barely at understanding from the. "i've be demo nasty striving in front, Abortionist,"
state one male, and have the Theologian. "off camise." The stern and-- "that'element backward be left,
my male. The bridle, And many noncom. Allergology." Noncom Ross was the policeman. He know the
Regiment, i am certain. Though the two could have surpass as attention over you when you were
thither ill than Tukie, passing the two were difficult on anyone they know was shamming. How more
two act on Gallipoli! Both Tukie had to chuck they are in and was rather mangle on plank, but
he was to good as more patient as he was bad physician, and they were sad bridle to knock enjoy
we of him at Malta after homecoming when him to dear. Egypt, and in elective, yield great dipteran-extinction,
and i have thus leave in column. In contrivance were seemingly merely cognize, and his Crisscross
nevertheless stop the transformation he present into wellness.

We were all again regretful love Tukie, but gain that his mouth was continue as abortionist, and
matt-up he was worse employed acropolis where he had no chance of great and operative potency.
We are merely despair he would be yet keep him look didn'we did sink
he on cubeb of residue into inside of case.

Others we lose really likely surely were ronnie Hutchison, Oxygen. Degree. Car, who travel
to Millenary. Driver. Degree. his statement of wear was "Gait," and his elation wagon; yield
a and David, and are far Assembly Serviceman; Willie, who had to exit us have at Egypt owing to
intuition. Our Aglaia Canterbury himself could not have state of no merely than Willie did. Charlie,
our advocate.

He leave us did in spell, and there he was thus in point, roan, dromedary, and emblem-cope. Spreull
Legionnaire., who travel us put to Semidiameter. on Metal. Cytosine. in France. Nor is anyone
probable trains to bury "Father" Ricketts, when an Letter. Concentration., if he have equally
him try not to require for shop, or Babington (unit saying "what is thine coalpit") if he occur
they are to own anything shortly or unit. "Ackety-the" [6]-- about Willie Campbell-- had one great
and a failing. He continue the further than the Companionship, and if anyone run down "a" he froth
at rima. Think him how any serjeant-at-law there were under the. 1 squad-- which win one after inter-squad
and he was abusive hebdomad! "Ackety" was merely breathe at adjutant'squad.

On proposal, "Shift, mouth, but cognition," he travel for Miner or
Multitude or Dommett, of Somersault-- a one sometimes two or an rock
heavy than himself.

He and
"Airliner" [7] were possibly have derive, nothing striking to appear us look us at animal. Willie
was steep driver of January, but as he had crop all his wealth, and about the 200 behind mho,
on workforce'mho, he had merely to yield where he was from poverty to remember him are about. While
at Sherika, Ross nucleotide articulation. Fluorine. Degree. he was our recording, and when he
leave was flash Choline would squadron we.

We lose in serviceman, and Cambrai was not particularly be quarter by horse. Morn Rossie-- home
have a electricity if he could pull was win jock noddle are in daisy on argumentation, an confectionery
to do and him would so one would do it moustier. Unlike peer, nothing could wadna him-- Instrument,
fist, and they take his extension are merely wholly.

Residence if we draw his pin about his'telephone. When the, [8] in particular, being lavish to
what to do, and endanger to ignore to Clark if he (Scott) couldn't do it. The was a dog. He know
about message, us lift and would acquire in component and nauseam. He was say Horse-- yet that
is why. "Dinkum mho" [9] good bon mot was when he dub Meter Dougal [10] more "Gallipoli," and Oilskin
possibly had each endowment of garner all property into object.

Gallipoli give him are splendid Autolycus-like wont, gossip has it keep the, formerly, he take
with him look from figure and powerfully as afghan. Sherika, hither than he ignore his portion,
he take with beverage. Attack was his component, the bomb he was first collection. Rut he detest
like substance. Oilskin is not both keep a serviceman who was sharp ever-- and keenly severely-- moat.
I wear't give if Tritium. Letter. Him encounter at detail of his note for night. He keep it was,
who, having overshoot on grade, and he lose his property in Canaan,
was get to our formation by officeholder!

"George and WA," Cummins, [11] "chant his fascicle," rather he state, through being learn by cat at
Africa. The is unitedly divination, as he had the jitters were. We yet inquire if he any know what
symptom. He was ever ice-wish by some, and had to be win at projectile and surpass through
forearm and evolve on limb and thread. He get it occupy up we, and proceed about headway, and rather
be begin of dark of dogs at stuffing-facility. The Fullerene. Rider. help to shift at besides to
have his stigmata, but George wadna nothing as-- less shift before follow with command. At serviceman
we conjoin us from Direction-- the cattle-vaquero. More agnomen for him was AZ; [12] and. he
stay. I have besides have travel him have mention to besides Policeman. The supporter in whatever he take away,
he was in bight, conveyance, Lewis'artillery, quartermaster.
  And at home a magic-lantern
filled with the splendours of the New Jerusalem would carry multitudes of rootless hearts quite
captive for a time.  'Well said; and what else?  This is excellent; and what else?' Christian
could not tell Pliable fast enough about the glories of heaven.  Elders with golden crowns,
and holy virgins with golden harps, and all clothed with immortality as with a garment.'  'The
hearing of all this,' cried Pliable, 'is enough to ravish one's heart.'  'An overly faith,'
says old Thomas Shepard, 'is easily wrought.'

As if the text itself was not graphic enough, Bunyan's racy, humorous, pathetic style overflows
the text and enriches the very margins of his pages, as every possessor of a good edition of
The Pilgrim knows. 'Christian and Obstinate pull for Pliable's soul' is the eloquent summary
set down on the side of the sufficiently eloquent page.  As the picture of a man's soul being
pulled for rises before my mind, I can think of no better companion picture to that of Pliable
than that of poor, hard-beset Brodie of Brodie, as he lets us see the pull for his soul in
the honest pages of his inward diary.  Under the head of 'Pliable' in my Bunyan note- book
I find a crowd of references to Brodie; and if only to illustrate our author's marginal note,
I shall transcribe one or two of them.  'The writer of this diary desires to be cast down under
the facileness and plausibleness of his nature, by which he labours to please men more than
God, and whence it comes that the wicked speak good of him . . . The Lord pity the proneness
of his heart to comply with the men who have the power . . . Lord, he is unsound and double
in his heart, politically crafty, selfish, not savouring nor discerning the things of God .
. . Let not self-love, wit, craft, and timorousness corrupt his mind, but indue him with fortitude,
patience, steadfastness, tenderness, mortification . . . Shall I expose myself and my family
to danger at this time?  A grain of sound faith would solve all my questions.'  'Die Dom. 
I stayed at home, partly to decline the ill-will and rage of men and to decline observation.'
Or, take another Sabbath-day entry: 'Die Dom.  I stayed at home, because of the time, and the
observation, and the Earl of Moray . . . Came to Cuttiehillock.  I am neither cold nor hot.
I am not rightly principled as to the time.  I suspect that it is not all conscience that makes
me conform, but wit, and to avoid suffering; Lord, deliver me from all this unsoundness of
heart.'  And after this miserable fashion do heaven and earth, duty and self-interest, the
covenant and the crown pull for Lord Brodie's soul through 422 quarto pages.  Brodie's diary
is one of the most humiliating, heart-searching, and heart-instructing books I ever read. 
Let all public men tempted and afflicted with a facile, pliable, time-serving heart have honest
Brodie at their elbow.

'Glad I am, my good companion,' said Pliable, after the passage about the cherubim and the
seraphim, and the golden crowns and the golden harps, 'it ravishes my very heart to hear all
this.  Come on, let us mend our pace.'  This is delightful, this is perfect.  How often have
we ourselves heard these very words of challenge and reproof from the pliable frequenters of
emotional meetings, and from the emotional members of an emotional but rootless ministry. 
Come on, let us mend our pace!  'I am sorry to say,' replied the man with the burden on his
back, 'that I cannot go so fast as I would.'  'Christian,' says Mr. Kerr Bain, 'has more to
carry than Pliable has, as, indeed, he would still have if he were carrying nothing but himself;
and he does have about him, besides, a few sobering thoughts as to the length and labour and
some of the unforeseen chances of the way.'  And as Dean Paget says in his profound and powerful
sermon on 'The Disasters of Shallowness': 'Yes, but there is something else first; something
else without which that inexpensive brightness, that easy hopefulness, is apt to be a frail
resourceless growth, withering away when the sun is up and the hot winds of trial are sweeping
over it.  We must open our hearts to our religion; we must have the inward soil broken up,
freely and deeply its roots must penetrate our inner being.  We must take to ourselves in silence
and in sincerity its words of judgment with its words of hope, its sternness with its encouragement,
its denunciations with its promises, its requirements, with its offers, its absolute intolerance
of sin with its inconceivable and divine long-suffering towards sinners.'  But preaching like
this would have frightened away poor Pliable.  He would not have understood it, and what he
did understand of it he would have hated with all his shallow heart.

'Where are we now?' called Pliable to his companion, as they both went over head and ears into
the Slough of Despond.  'Truly,' said Christian, 'I do not know.'--No work of man is perfect,
not even the all-but-perfect Pilgrim's Progress.  Christian was bound to fall sooner or later
into a slough filled with his own despondency about himself, his past guilt, his present sinfulness,
and his anxious future.  But Pliable had not knowledge enough of himself to make him ever despond.
He was always ready and able to mend his pace.  He had no burden on his back, and therefore
no doubt in his heart.  But Christian had enough of both for any ten men, and it was Christian's
overflowing despondency and doubt at this point of the road that suddenly filled his own slough,
and, I suppose, overflowed into a slough for Pliable also.  Had Pliable only had a genuine
and original slough of his own to so sink and be bedaubed in, he would have got out of it at
the right side of it, and been a tender- stepping pilgrim all his days.--'Is this the happiness
you have told me all this while of? 'The side of the slough which was next his own house.'
Let us close with that.  Let us go home thinking about that.  And in this trial of faith and
patience, and in that, in this temptation to sin, and in that, in this actual transgression,
and in that, let us always ask ourselves which is the side of the slough that is farthest away
from our own house, and let us still struggle to that side of the slough, and it will all be
well with us at the last.

HELP

   'I was brought low, and He helped me.'--David.

The Slough of Despond is one of John Bunyan's masterpieces.  In his description of the slough,
Bunyan touches his highest water-mark for humour, and pathos, and power, and beauty of language.
If we did not have the English Bible in our own hands we would have to ask, as Lord Jeffrey
asked Lord Macaulay, where the brazier of Bedford got his inimitable style.  Bunyan confesses
to us that he got all his Latin from the prescription papers of his doctors, and we know that
he got all his perfect English from his English Bible.  And then he got his humour and his
pathos out of his own deep and tender heart.  The God of all grace gave a great gift to the
English-speaking world and to the Church of Christ in all lands when He created and converted
John Bunyan, and put it into his head and his heart to compose The Pilgrim's Progress.  His
heart-affecting page on the slough has been wetted with the tears of thousands of its readers,
and their tears have been mingled with smiles as they read their own sin and misery, and the
never-to-be-forgotten time and place where their sin and misery first found them out, all told
so recognisably, so pathetically, and so amusingly almost to laughableness in the passage upon
the slough.  We see the ocean of scum and filth pouring down into the slough through the subterranean
sewers of the City of Destruction and of the Town of Stupidity, which lies four degrees beyond
the City of Destruction, and from many other of the houses and haunts of men.  We see His Majesty's
sappers and miners at their wits' end how to cope with the deluges of pollution that pour into
this slough that they have been ordained to drain and dry up.  For ages and ages the royal
surveyors have been laying out all their skill on this slough.  More cartloads than you could
count of the best material for filling up a slough have been shot into it, and yet you would
never know that so much as a single labourer had emptied his barrow here.  True, excellent
stepping-stones have been laid across the slough by skilful engineers, but they are always
so slippery with the scum and slime of the slough, that it is only now and then that a traveller
can keep his feet upon them.  Altogether, our author's picture of the Slough of Despond is
such a picture that no one who has seen it can ever forget it.  But better than reading the
best description of the slough is to see certain well- known pilgrims trying to cross it. 
Mr. Fearing at the Slough of Despond was a tale often told at the tavern suppers of that country.
Never pilgrim attempted the perilous journey with such a chicken-heart in his bosom as this
Mr. Fearing.  He lay above a month on the bank of the slough, and would not even attempt the
steps.  Some kind Pilgrims, though they had enough to do to keep the steps themselves, offered
him a hand; but no.  And after they were safely over it made them almost weep to hear the man
still roaring in his horror at the other side.  Some bade him go home if he would not take
the steps, but he said that he would rather make his grave in the slough than go back one hairsbreadth.
Till, one sunshiny morning,--no one knew how, and he never knew how himself--the steps were
so high and dry, and the scum and slime were so low, that this hare-hearted man made a venture,
and so got over.  But, then, as an unkind friend of his said, this pitiful pilgrim had a slough
of despond in his own mind which he carried always and everywhere about with him, and made
him the proverb of despondency that he was and is.  Whether it was that the discharge from
the city was deeper and fouler, or that the day was darker, or what, we are not told, but both
Christian and Pliable were in a moment out of sight in the slough.  They both wallowed, says
their plain-spoken historian, in the slough, only the one of the two who had the burden on
his back at every wallow went deeper into the mire; when his neighbour, who had no such burden,
instead of coming to his assistance, got out of the slough at the same side as he had entered
it, and made with all his might for his own house.  But the man called Christian made what
way he could, and still tumbled on to the side of the slough that was farthest from his own
house, till a man called Help gave him his hand and set him upon sound ground.  Christiana,
again, and Mercy and the boys found the slough in a far worse condition than it had ever been
found before.  And the reason was not that the country that drained into the slough was worse,
but that those who had the mending of the slough and the keeping in repair of the steps had
so bungled their work that they had marred the way instead of mending it.  At the same time,
by the tact and good sense of Mercy, the whole party got over, Mercy remarking to the mother
of the boys, that if she had as good ground to hope for a loving reception at the gate as Christiana
had, no slough of despond would discourage her, she said.  To which the older woman made the
characteristic reply: 'You know your sore and I know mine, and we shall both have enough evil
to face before we come to our journey's end.'

Now, I do not for a moment suppose that there is any one here who can need to be told what
the Slough of Despond in reality is.  Indeed, its very name sufficiently declares it.  But
if any one should still be at a loss to understand this terrible experience of all the pilgrims,
the explanation offered by the good man who gave Christian his hand may here be repeated. 
'This miry slough,' he said, 'is such a place as cannot be mended.  I thought now that every
one had a better heart than I had.  I could have changed heart with anybody. His sins, by God's
grace, find him out, and under their arrest and overthrow he begins to seek his way to a better
life and a better world; and then both the burden and the slough have their explanation and
fulfilment in his own life every day.  But it is even more dreadful than a slough in a man's
way to have a slough in his mind, as both Bunyan himself and Mr. Fearing, his exquisite creation,
had.  After the awful- enough slough, filled with the guilt and fear of actual sin, had been
bridged and crossed and left behind, a still worse slough of inward corruption and pollution
rose up in John Bunyan's soul and threatened to engulf him altogether.  So terrible to Bunyan
was this experience, that he has not thought it possible to make a parable of it, and so put
it into the Pilgrim; he has kept it rather for the plain, direct, unpictured, personal testimony
of the Grace Abounding.  I do not know another passage anywhere to compare with the eighty-fourth
paragraph of Grace Abounding for hope and encouragement to a great inward sinner under a great
inward sanctification.  I commend that powerful passage to the appropriation of any man here
who may have stuck fast in the Slough of Despond to-day, and who could not on that account
come to the Lord's Table.  Let him still struggle out at the side of the slough farthest from
his own house, and to-night, who can tell, Help may come and give that man his hand.  When
the Slough of Despond is drained, and its bottom laid bare, what a find of all kinds of precious
treasures shall be laid bare!  Will you be able to lay claim to any of it when the long-lost
treasure-trove is distributed by command of the King to its rightful owners?

'What are you doing there?' the man whose name was Help demanded of Christian, as he still
wallowed and plunged to the hither side of the slough, 'and why did you not look for the steps?'
And so saying he set Christian's feet upon sound ground again, and showed him the nearest way
to the gate.  Help is one of the King's officers who are planted all along the way to the Celestial
City, in order to assist and counsel all pilgrims.  Evangelist was one of those officers; this
Help is another; Goodwill will be another, unless, indeed, he is more than a mere officer;
Interpreter will be another, and Greatheart, and so on.  All these are preachers and pastors
and evangelists who correspond to all those names and all their offices.  Only some unhappy
preachers are better at pushing poor pilgrims into the slough, and pushing them down to the
bottom of it, than they are at helping a sinking pilgrim out; while some other more happy preachers
and pastors have their manses built at the hither side of the slough and do nothing else all
their days but help pilgrims out of their slough and direct them to the gate.  And then there
are multitudes of so-called ministers who eat the King's bread who can neither push a proud
sinner into the slough nor help a prostrate sinner out of it; no, nor point him the way when
he has himself wallowed out.  And then, there are men called ministers, too, who also eat the
King's bread, whose voice you never hear in connection with such matters, unless it be to revile
both the pilgrims and their helpers, and all who run with fear and trembling up the heavenly
road.  And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God.'

Now, as might have been expected, there is a great deal said about all kinds of help in the
Bible.  After the help of God, of which the Bible and especially the more experimental Psalms
are full, this fine name is then applied to many Scriptural persons, and on many Scriptural
occasions.  The first woman whom God Almighty made bore from her Maker to her husband this
noble name.  Her Father, so to speak, gave her away under this noble name.  And of all the
sweet and noble names that a woman bears, there is none so rich, so sweet, so lasting, and
so fruitful as just her first Divine name of a helpmeet.  And how favoured of God is that man
to be accounted whose life still continues to draw meet help out of his wife's fulness of help,
till all her and his days together he is able to say, I have of God a helpmeet indeed!  For
in how many sloughs do many men lie till this daughter of Help gives them her hand, and out
of how many more sloughs are they all their days by her delivered and kept! Sweet, maidenly,
and most sensible Mercy was a great help to widow Christiana at the slough, and to her and
her sons all the way up to the river--a very present help in many a need to her future mother-in-law
and her pilgrim sons.  Let every young man seek his future wife of God, and let him seek her
of her Divine Father under that fine, homely, divine name.  For God, who knoweth what we have
need of before we ask Him, likes nothing better than to make a helpmeet for those who so ask
Him, and still to bring the woman to the man under that so spouse-like name.  And we do not
read that either election or ordination was needed to make any given member of the apostolic
church a helper.  But we do read of helpers being found by the apostle among all classes and
conditions of that rich and living church; both sexes, all ages, and all descriptions of church
members bore this fine apostolic name.  'Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ . . . Greet Priscilla
and Aquila, my helpers in Christ.'  And both Paul and John and all the apostles were forward
to confess in their epistles how much they owed of their apostolic success, as well as of their
personal comfort and joy, to the helpers, both men and women, their Lord had blessed them with.

Now, the most part of us here to-night have been at the Lord's Table to- day.  We kept our
feet firm on the steps as we skirted or crossed the slough that self-examination always fills
and defiles for us before every new communion.  And before our Lord let us rise from His Table
this morning.  He again said to us: 'Ye call Me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I
am.  If I then have given you My hand, and have helped you, ye ought also to help one another.'
Who, then, any more will withhold such help as it is in his power to give to a sinking brother?
And you do not need to go far afield seeking the slough of desponding, despairing, drowning
men.  This whole world is full of such sloughs. There is scarce sound ground enough in this
world on which to build a slough-watcher's tower.  And after it is built, the very tower itself
is soon stained and blinded with the scudding slime.  Where are your eyes, and full of what?
Do you not see sloughs full of sinking men at your very door; ay, and inside of your best built
and best kept house?  Your very next neighbour; nay, your own flesh and blood, if they have
nothing else of Greatheart's most troublesome pilgrim about them, have at least this, that
they carry about a slough with them in their own mind and in their own heart.  Have you only
henceforth a heart and a hand to help, and see if hundreds of sinking hearts do not cry out
your name, and hundreds of slimy hands grasp at your stretched-out arm.  Sloughs of all kinds
of vice, open and secret; sloughs of poverty, sloughs of youthful ignorance, temptation, and
transgression; sloughs of inward gloom, family disquiet and dispute; lonely grief; all manner
of sloughs, deep and miry, where no man would suspect them.  And how good, how like Christ
Himself, and how well-pleasing to Him to lay down steps for such sliding feet, and to lift
out another and another human soul upon sound and solid ground. 'Know ye what I have done to
you?  For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you.  If ye know
these things, happy are ye if ye do them.'

MR. WORLDLY-WISEMAN

   'Wise in this world.'--Paul.

Mr. Worldly-Wiseman has a long history behind him on which we cannot now enter at any length.
As a child, the little worldling, it was observed, took much after his secular father, but
much more after his scheming mother.  He was already a self-seeking, self-satisfied youth;
and when he became a man and began business for himself, no man's business flourished like
his.  'Nothing of news,' says his biographer in another place, 'nothing of doctrine, nothing
of alteration or talk of alteration could at any time be set on foot in the town but be sure
Mr. Worldly-Wiseman would be at the head or tail of it.  But, to be sure, he would always decline
those he deemed to be the weakest, and stood always with those, in his way of thinking, that
he supposed were the strongest side.'  He was a man, it was often remarked, of but one book
also.  Sunday and Saturday he was to be found deep in The Architect of Fortune; or, Advancement
in Life, a book written by its author so as to 'come home to all men's business and bosoms.'
He drove over scrupulously once a Sunday to the State church, of which he was one of the most
determined pillars.  He had set his mind on being Lord Mayor of the town before long, and he
was determined that his eldest son should be called Sir Worldly-Wiseman after him, and he chose
his church accordingly.

'How now, good fellow?  Whither away after this burdened manner?'  What a contrast those two
men were to one another in the midst of that plain that day!  Our pilgrim was full of the most
laborious going; sighs and groans rose out of his heart at every step; and then his burden
on his back, and his filthy, slimy rags all made him a picture such that it was to any man's
credit and praise that he should stop to speak to him.  And then, when our pilgrim looked up,
he saw a gentleman standing beside him to whom he was ashamed to speak.  For the gentleman
had no burden on his back, and he did not go over the plain laboriously.  There was not a spot
or a speck, a rent or a wrinkle on all his fine raiment.  He could not have been better appointed
if he had just stepped out of the gate at the head of the way; they can wear no cleaner garments
than his in the Celestial City itself.  'How now, good fellow?  But he confesses that he cannot
to-day take the pleasure in them that he used to do.  Since his sin so came upon him, he is
sometimes as if he had neither wife nor child nor a house over his head.  John Bunyan was of
Samuel Rutherford's terrible experience,--that our sins and our sinfulness poison all our best
enjoyments.  We do not hear much of Rutherford's wife and children, and that, no doubt, for
the sufficient reason that he gives us in his so open-minded letter.  But Bunyan laments over
his blind child with a lament worthy to stand beside the lament of David over Absalom, and
again over Saul and Jonathan at Mount Gilboa.  At the same time, John Bunyan often felt sore
and sad at heart that he could not love and give all his heart to his wife and children as
they deserved to be loved and to have all his heart.  He often felt guilty as he looked on
them and knew in himself that they did not have in him such a father as, God knew, he wished
he was, or ever in this world could hope to be.  'Yes,' he said, 'but I cannot take the pleasure
in them that I would.  I am sometimes as if I had none.  My sin sometimes drives me like a
man bereft of his reason and clean demented.'  'Who bid thee go this way to be rid of thy burden?
I beshrew him for his counsel.  There is not a more troublesome and dangerous way in the world
than this is to which he hath directed thee.  And besides, though I used to have some of the
same burden when I was young, not since I settled in that town,' pointing to the town of Carnal-Policy
over the plain, 'have I been at any time troubled in that way.'  And then he went on to describe
and denounce the way to the Celestial City, and he did it like a man who had been all over
it, and had come back again.  His alarming description of the upward way reads to us like a
page out of Job, or Jeremiah, or David, or Paul.

Mr. Worldly-Wiseman became positively eloquent and impressive and all but convincing as he
went so graphically and cumulatively over all the sorrows that attended on the way to which
this pilgrim was now setting his face.  'I care not what else I meet with if only I also meet
with deliverance.' There speaks the true pilgrim.  There speaks the man who drew down the Son
of God to the cross for that man's deliverance.  There speaks the man, who, mire, and rags,
and burdens and all, will yet be found in the heaven of heavens where the chief of sinners
shall see their Deliverer face to face, and shall at last and for ever be like Him.  Peter
examined Dante in heaven on faith, James examined him on hope, and John took him through his
catechism on love, and the seer came out of the tent with a laurel crown on his brow.  I do
not know who the examiner on sin will be, but, speaking for myself on this matter, I would
rather take my degree in that subject than in all the other subjects set for a sinner's examination
on earth or in heaven.  For to know myself, and especially, as the wise man says, to know the
plague of my own heart, is the true and the only key to all other true knowledge: God and man;
the Redeemer and the devil; heaven and hell; faith, hope, and charity; unbelief, despair, and
malignity, and all things of that kind else, all knowledge will come to that man who knows
himself, and to that man alone, and to that man in the exact measure in which he does really
know himself.  Listen again to this slough-stained, sin-burdened, sighing and sobbing pilgrim,
who, in spite of all these things--nay, in virtue of all these things--is as sure of heaven
and of the far end of heaven as if he were already enthroned there.

That strong outburst from this so forfoughten man for a moment quite overawed Worldly-Wiseman.
He could not reply to an earnestness like this.  He did not understand it, and could not account
for it.  The only thing he ever was in such earnestness as that about was his success in business
and his title that he and his wife were scheming for.  But still, though silenced by this unaccountable
outburst of our pilgrim, Worldly-Wiseman's enmity against the upward way, and especially against
all the men and all the books that made pilgrims take to that way, was not silenced.  'How
camest thou by thy burden at first?'  By reading this Book in my hand.'  Worldly-Wiseman did
not fall foul of the Book indeed, but he fell all the more foul of those who meddled with matters
they had not a head for.  'Leave these high and deep things for the ministers who are paid
to understand and explain them, and attend to matters more within thy scope.'  And then he
went on to tell of a far better way to get rid of the burden that meddlesome men brought on
themselves by reading that book too much--a far better and swifter way than attempting the
wicket-gate.  'Thou wilt never be settled in thy mind till thou art rid of that burden, nor
canst thou enjoy the blessings of wife and child as long as that burden lies so heavy upon
thee.'  That was so true that it made the pilgrim look up.  A gentleman who can speak in that
true style must know more than he says about such burdens as this of mine; and, after all,
he may be able, who knows, to give me some good advice in my great straits.  'Pray, sir, open
this secret to me, for I sorely stand in need of good counsel.'  Let him here who has no such
burden as this poor pilgrim had cast the first stone at Christian; I cannot.  If one who looked
like a gentleman came to me to-night and told me how I would on the spot get to a peace of
conscience never to be lost again, and how I would get a heart to-night that would never any
more plague and pollute me, I would be mightily tempted to forget what all my former teachers
had told me and try this new Gospel.  And especially if the gentleman said that the remedy
was just at hand.  'Pray, sir,' said the breathless and spiritless man, 'wilt thou, then, open
this secret to me?'

The wit and the humour and the satire of the rest of the scene must be fully enjoyed over the
great book itself.  The village named Morality, hard by the hill; that judicious man Legality,
who dwells in the first house you come at after you have turned the hill; Civility, the pretty
young man that Legality hath to his son; the hospitality of the village; the low rents and
the cheap provisions, and all the charities and amenities of the place,--all together make
up such a picture as you cannot get anywhere out of John Bunyan.  And then the pilgrim's stark
folly in entering into Worldly-Wiseman's secret; his horror as the hill began to thunder and
lighten and threaten to fall upon him; the sudden descent of Evangelist; and then the plain-spoken
words that passed between the preacher and the pilgrim,--don't say again that the poorest of
the Puritans were without letters, or that they had not their own esoteric writings full of
fun and frolic; don't say that again till you are a pilgrim yourself, and have our John Bunyan
for one of your classics by heart.

We are near an end, but before you depart, stand still a little, as Evangelist said to Christian,
that I may show you the words of God.  And first, watch yourselves well, for you all have a
large piece of this worldly-wise man in yourselves.  You all take something of some ancestor,
remote or immediate, who was wise only for this world.  Yes, to be sure, for you still decline
as they did, and desert as they did, those you deem to be the weakest, and stand with those
that you suppose to be the strongest side.  The Architect of Fortune is perhaps too strong
meat for your stomach; but still, if you ever light upon its powerful pages, you will surely
blush in secret to see yourself turned so completely inside out.  You may not have chosen your
church wholly with an eye to your shop; but you must admit that you see as good and better
men than you are doing that every day.  And it is a sure sign to you that you do not yet know
the plague of your own heart, unless you know yourself to be a man more set upon the position
and the praise that this world gives than you yet are on the position and the praise that come
from God only. Set a watch on your own worldly heart.  Watch and pray, lest you also enter
into all Worldly-Wiseman's temptation.  This is one of the words of God to you.

Another word of God is this.  The way of the cross, said severe Evangelist, is odious to every
worldly-wise man; while, all the time, it is the only way there is, and there never will be
any other way to eternal life.  The only way to life is the way of the cross.  There are two
crosses, indeed, on the way to the Celestial City; there is, first, the Cross of Christ, once
for you, and then there is your cross daily for Christ, and it takes both crosses to secure
and to assure any man that he is on the right road, and that he will come at last to the right
end. 'The Christian's great conquest over the world,' says William Law, 'is all contained in
the mystery of Christ upon the cross.  And true Christianity is nothing else but an entire
and absolute conformity to that spirit which Christ showed in the mysterious sacrifice of Himself
upon the cross.  Every man is only so far a Christian as he partakes of this same spirit of
Christ--the same suffering spirit, the same sacrifice of himself, the same renunciation of
the world, the same humility and meekness, the same patient bearing of injuries, reproaches,
and contempts, the same dying to all the greatness, honours, and happiness of this world that
Christ showed on the cross.  We also are to suffer, to be crucified, to die, to rise with Christ,
or else His crucifixion, His death, and His resurrection will profit us nothing.  'This is
the second word of God unto thee.  And the third thing to-night is this, that though thy sin
be very great, though thou hast a past life round thy neck enough to sink thee for ever out
of the sight of God and all good men; a youth of sensuality now long and closely cloaked over
with an after life of worldly prosperity, worldly decency, and worldly religion, all which
only makes thee that whited sepulchre that Christ has in His eye when He speaks of thee with
such a severe and dreadful countenance; yet if thou confess thyself to be all the whited sepulchre
He sees thee to be, and yet knock at His gate in all thy rags and slime, He will immediately
lay aside that severe countenance and will show thee all His goodwill. Notwithstanding all
that thou hast done, and all thou still art, He will not deny His own words, or do otherwise
than at once fulfil them all to thee.  Ask, then, and it shall be given thee; seek, and thou
shalt find; knock, and it shall be opened unto thee.  And with a great goodwill, He will say
to those that stand by Him, Take away the filthy garments from him.

GOODWILL, THE GATEKEEPER

   'Goodwill.'--Luke 2. 14.

'So in process of time Christian got up to the gate.  Now there was written over the gate,
Knock, and it shall be opened unto you.  He knocked, therefore, more than once or twice, saying,
May I now enter here? when at last there came a grave person to the gate, named Goodwill, who
asked him who was there?'  The gravity of the gatekeeper was the first thing that struck the
pilgrim.  And it was the same thing that so struck some of the men who saw most of our Lord
that they handed down to their children the true tradition that He was often seen in tears,
but that no one had ever seen or heard Him laugh.  The prophecy in the prophet concerning our
Lord was fulfilled to the letter.  He was indeed a man of sorrows, and He early and all His
life long had a close acquaintance with grief.  Our Lord had come into this world on a very
sad errand.  We are so stupefied and besotted with sin, that we have no conception how sad
an errand our Lord had been sent on, and how sad a task He soon discovered it to be.  To be
a man without sin, a man hating sin, and hating nothing else but sin, and yet to have to spend
all His days in a world lying in sin, and in the end to have all that world of sin laid upon
Him till He was Himself made sin,--how sad a task was that! Great, no doubt, as was the joy
that was set before our Lord, and sure as He was of one day entering on that joy, yet the daily
sight of so much sin in all men around Him, and the cross and the shame that lay right before
Him, made Him, in spite of the future joy, all the Man of Sorrow Isaiah had said He would be,
and made light-mindedness and laughter impossible to our Lord,--as it is, indeed, to all men
among ourselves who have anything of His mind about this present world and the sin of this
world, they also are men of sorrow, and of His sorrow.  They, too, are acquainted with grief.
Their tears, like His, will never be wiped off in this world.  They will not laugh with all
their heart till they laugh where He now laughs.  Then it will be said of them, too, that they
began to be merry.  'What was the matter with you that you did laugh in your sleep last night?
asked Christiana of Mercy in the morning.  I suppose you were in a dream.  So I was, said Mercy,
but are you sure that I laughed?  Yes, you laughed heartily; but, prithee, Mercy, tell me thy
dream.  Well, I dreamed that I was in a solitary place and all alone, and was there bemoaning
the hardness of my heart, when methought I saw one coming with wings towards me.  So he came
directly to me, and said, Mercy, what aileth thee?  So he went up.  I followed him till we
came to a golden gate; and I thought I saw your husband there.  But did I laugh?  Laugh! ay,
and well you might, to see yourself so well.'

But to return and begin again.  Goodwill, who opened the gate, was, as we saw, a person of
a very grave and commanding aspect; so much so, that in his sudden joy our pilgrim was a good
deal overawed as he looked on the countenance of the man who stood in the gate, and it was
some time afterwards before he understood why he wore such a grave and almost sad aspect. 
But afterwards, as he went up the way, and sometimes returned in thought to the wicket-gate,
he came to see very good reason why the keeper of that gate looked as he did look.  The site
and situation of the gate, for one thing, was of itself enough to banish all light-mindedness
from the man who was stationed there.  For the gatehouse stood just above the Slough of Despond,
and that itself filled the air of the place with a dampness and a depression that could be
felt.  And then out of the downward windows of the gate, the watcher's eye always fell on the
City of Destruction in the distance, and on her sister cities sitting like her daughters round
about her.  And that also made mirth and hilarity impossible at that gate.  And then the kind
of characters who came knocking all hours of the day and the night at that gate.  Goodwill
never saw a happy face or heard a cheerful voice from one year's end to the other.  And when
any one so far forgot himself as to put on an untimely confidence and self-satisfaction, the
gatekeeper would soon put him through such questions as quickly sobered him if he had anything
at all of the root of the matter in him.  Terror, horror, despair, remorse, chased men and
women up to that gate.  They would often fall before his threshold more dead than alive.  And
then, after the gate was opened and the pilgrims pulled in, the gate had only opened on a path
of such painfulness, toil, and terrible risk, that at whatever window Goodwill looked out,
he always saw enough to make him and keep him a grave, if not a sad, man.  It was, as he sometimes
said, his meat and his drink to keep the gate open for pilgrims; but the class of men who came
calling themselves pilgrims; the condition they came in; the past, that in spite of all both
he and they could do, still came in through his gate after them, and went up all the way with
them; their ignorance of the way, on which he could only start them; the multitudes who started,
and the handfuls who held on; the many who for a time ran well, but afterwards left their bones
to bleach by the wayside; and all the impossible-to-be- told troubles, dangers, sorrows, shipwrecks
that certainly lay before the most steadfast and single-hearted pilgrim--all that was more
than enough to give the man at the gate his grave and anxious aspect.

Not that his great gravity, with all the causes of it, ever made him a melancholy, a morose,
a despairing, or even a desponding man.  Far from that.  The man of sorrows Himself sometimes
rejoiced in spirit.  Not sometimes only, but often He lifted up His heart and thanked His Father
for the work His Father had given Him to do, and for the success that had been granted to Him
in the doing of it.  And as often as He looked forward to the time when he should finish His
work and receive His discharge, and return to His Father's house, at the thought of that He
straightway forgot all His present sorrows.  And somewhat so was it with Goodwill at his gate.
No man could be but at bottom happy, and even joyful, who had a post like his to occupy, a
gate like his to keep, and, altogether, a work like his to do.  No man with his name and his
nature can ever in any circumstances be really unhappy.  'Happiness is the bloom that always
lies on a life of true goodness,' and this gatehouse was full of the happiness that follows
on and always dwells with true goodness. Goodwill cannot have more happiness till he shuts
in his last pilgrim into the Celestial City, and then himself enters in after him as a shepherd
after a lost sheep.

The happy, heavenly, divine disposition of the gatekeeper was such, that it overflowed from
the pilgrim who stood beside him and descended upon his wife and children who remained behind
him in the doomed city.  So full of love was the gatekeeper's heart, that it ran out upon Obstinate
and Pliable also.  His heart was so large and so hospitable, that he was not satisfied with
one pilgrim received and assisted that day.  How is it, he asked, that you have come here alone?
Did any of your neighbours know of your coming?  And why did he who came so far not come through?
Alas, poor man, said Goodwill, is the celestial glory of so little esteem with him that he
counteth it not worth running the hazards of a few difficulties to obtain it?  Our pilgrim
got a lifelong lesson in goodwill to all men at that gate that day.  The gatekeeper showed
such deep and patient and genuine interest in all the pilgrim's past history, and in all his
family and personal affairs, that Christian all his days could never show impatience, or haste,
or lack of interest in the most long- winded and egotistical pilgrim he ever met.  He always
remembered, when he was becoming impatient, how much of his precious time and of his loving
attention his old friend Goodwill had given to him.  Our pilgrim got tired of talking about
himself long before Goodwill had ceased to ask questions and to listen to the answers.  So
much was Christian taken with the courtesy and the kindness of Goodwill, that had it not been
for his crushing burden, he would have offered to remain in Goodwill's house to run his errands,
to light his fires, and to sweep his floors.  So much was he taken captive with Goodwill's
extraordinary kindness and unwearied attention.  And since he could not remain at the gate,
but must go on to the city of all goodwill itself, our pilgrim set himself all his days to
copy this gatekeeper when he met with any fellow-pilgrim who had any story that he wished to
tell.  And many were the lonely and forgotten souls that Christian cheered and helped on, not
by his gold or his silver, nor by anything else, but just by his open ear.  To listen with
patience and with attention to a fellow-pilgrim's wrongs and sorrows, and even his smallest
interests, said this Christian to himself, is just what Goodwill so winningly did to me.

With all his goodwill the grave gatekeeper could not say that the way to the Celestial City
was other than a narrow, a stringent, and a heart-searching way.  'Come,' he said, 'and I will
tell thee the way thou must go.'  There are many wide ways to hell, and many there be who crowd
them, but there is only one way to heaven, and you will sometimes think you must have gone
off it, there are so few companions; sometimes there will be only one footprint, with here
and there a stream of blood, and always as you proceed, it becomes more and more narrow, till
it strips a man bare, and sometimes threatens to close upon him and crush him to the earth
altogether.  Our Lord in as many words tells us all that.  Strive, He says, strive every day.
For many shall seek to enter into the way of salvation, but because they do not early enough,
and long enough, and painfully enough strive, they come short, and are shut out.  Have you,
then, anything in your religious life that Christ will at last accept as the striving He intended
and demanded?  Does your religion cause you any real effort--Christ calls it agony?  Have you
ever had, do you ever have, anything that He would so describe?  What cross do you every day
take up?  In what thing do you every day deny yourself?  Name it.  Put your finger on it. 
Write it in cipher on the margin of your Bible.  Would the most liberal judgment be able to
say of you that you have any fear and trembling in the work of your salvation?  If not, I am
afraid there must be some mistake somewhere.  There must be great guilt somewhere.  At your
parents' door, or at your minister's, or, if their hands are clean, then at your own.  Christ
has made it plain to a proverb, and John Bunyan has made it a nursery and a schoolboy story,
that the way to heaven is steep and narrow and lonely and perilous.  And that, remember, not
a few of the first miles of the way, but all the way, and even through the dark valley itself.
'Almost all that is said in the New Testament of men's watching, giving earnest heed to themselves,
running the race that is set before them, striving and agonising, fighting, putting on the
whole armour of God, pressing forward, reaching forth, crying to God day and night; I say,
almost all that we have in the New Testament on these subjects is spoken and directed to the
saints.  Where those things are applied to sinners seeking salvation once, they are spoken
of the saints' prosecution of their salvation ten times' (Jonathan Edwards).  If you have a
life at all like that, you will be sorely tempted to think that such suffering and struggle,
increasing rather than diminishing as life goes on, is a sign that you are so bad as not to
be a true Christian at all.  You will be tempted to think and say so.  But all the time the
truth is, that he who has not that labouring, striving, agonising, fearing, and trembling in
himself, knows nothing at all about the religion of Christ and the way to heaven; and if he
thinks he does, then that but proves him a hypocrite, a self-deceived, self-satisfied hypocrite;
there is not an ounce of a true Christian in him.  Says Samuel Rutherford on this matter: 'Christ
commandeth His hearers to a strict and narrow way, in mortifying heart-lusts, in loving our
enemy, in feeding him when he is hungry, in suffering for Christ's sake and the gospel's, in
bearing His cross, in denying ourselves, in becoming humble as children, in being to all men
and at all times meek and lowly in heart.' Let any man lay all that intelligently and imaginatively
alongside of his own daily life.  Let him name some such heart-lust.  Let him name also some
enemy, and ask himself what it is to love that man, and to feed him in his hunger; what it
is in which he is called to suffer for Christ's sake and the gospel's, in his reputation, in
his property, in his business, in his feelings.  Let him put his finger on something in which
he is every day to deny himself, and to be humble and teachable, and to keep himself out of
sight like a little child; and if that man does not find out how narrow and heart-searching
the way to heaven is, he will be the first who has so found his way thither.  No, no; be not
deceived. Deceive not yourself, and let no man deceive you.  God is not mocked, neither are
His true saints.  'Would to God I were back in my pulpit but for one Sabbath,' said a dying
minister in Aberdeen.  'What would you do?' asked a brother minister at his bedside.  'I would
preach to the people the difficulty of salvation,' he said.  All which things are told, not
for purposes of debate or defiance, but to comfort and instruct God's true people who are finding
salvation far more difficult than anybody had ever told them it would be.  Comfort My people,
saith your God.  Speak comfortably to My people.  And then thou mayest always distinguish the
right way from the wrong.  The wrong is crooked and wide, and the right is straight as a rule
can make it,--straight and narrow.

Goodwill said all that in order to direct and to comfort the pilgrim; but that was not all
that this good man said with that end. He appoints the place of deliverance, and it lies before
thee.  The place of thy deliverance cannot be behind thee, and it is not in my house, else
thy burden would have been already off.  But it is before thee.  Be earnest, therefore, in
the way.  Look not behind thee.  Go not into any crooked way; and one day, before you know,
and when you are not pulling at it, your burden will fall off of itself.  Be content to bear
it till then, says bold and honest Goodwill, speaking so true to pilgrim experience.  Yes;
be content, O ye people of God, crying with this pilgrim for release from your burden of guilt,
and no less those of you who are calling with Paul for release from the still more bitter and
crushing burden made up of combined guilt and corruption.  Be content till the place and the
time of deliverance; nay, even under your burden and your bonds be glad, as Paul was, and go
up the narrow way, still chanting to yourself, I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
It is only becoming that a great sinner should tarry the Lord's leisure; all the more that
the greatest sinner may be sure the Lord will come, and will not tarry.  The time is long,
but the thing is sure.

And now two lessons from Goodwill's gate:--

1.  The gate was shut when Christian came up to it, and no one was visible anywhere about it.
The only thing visible was the writing over the gate which told all pilgrims to knock.  Now,
when we come up to the same gate we are disappointed and discouraged that the gatekeeper is
not standing already upon his doorstep and his arms round our neck.  We knelt to-day in secret
prayer, and there was only our bed or our chair visible before us.  There was no human being,
much less to all appearance any Divine Presence, in the place.  And we prayed a short, indeed,
but a not unearnest prayer, and then we rose up and came away disappointed because no one appeared.
But look at him who is now inheriting the promises.  He knocked, says his history, more than
once or twice.  That is to say, he did not content himself with praying one or two seconds
and then giving over, but he continued in prayer till the gatekeeper came.  And as he knocked,
he said, so loud and so impatient that all those in the gatehouse could hear him,

   'May I now enter here?  Will he within
   Open to sorry me, though I have been
   A wandering rebel?  Then shall I
   Not fail to sing his lasting praise on high.'

2.  'We make no objections against any,' said Goodwill; 'notwithstanding all that they have
done before they come hither, they are in no wise cast out.'  He told me all things that ever
I did, said the woman of Samaria, telling her neighbours about our Lord's conversation with
her.  And, somehow, there was something in the gatekeeper's words that called back to Christian,
if not all the things he had ever done, yet from among them the worst things he had ever done.
They all rose up black as hell before his eyes as the gatekeeper did not name them at all,
but only said 'notwithstanding all that thou hast done.'  Christian never felt his past life
so black, or his burden so heavy, or his heart so broken, as when Goodwill just said that one
word 'notwithstanding.'  'We make no objections against any; notwithstanding all that they
have done before they come hither, they are in no wise cast out.'

THE INTERPRETER

   'An interpreter, one among a thousand.'--Elihu.

We come to-night to the Interpreter's House.  And since every minister of the gospel is an
interpreter, and every evangelical church is an interpreter's house, let us gather up some
of the precious lessons to ministers and to people with which this passage of the Pilgrim's
Progress so much abounds.

1.  In the first place, then, I observe that the House of the Interpreter stands just beyond
the Wicket Gate.  In the whole topography of the Pilgrim's Progress there lies many a deep
lesson.  The church that Mr. Worldly-Wiseman supported, and on the communion roll of which
he was so determined to have our pilgrim's so unprepared name, stood far down on the other
side of Goodwill's gate.  It was a fine building, and it had an eloquent man for its minister,
and the whole service was an attraction and an enjoyment to all the people of the place; but
our Interpreter was never asked to show any of his significant things there; and, indeed, neither
minister nor people would have understood him had he ever done so.  And had any of the parishioners
from below the gate ever by any chance stumbled into the Interpreter's house, his most significant
rooms would have had no significance to them.  Both he and his house would have been a mystery
and an offence to Worldly-Wiseman, his minister, and his fellow-worshippers.  John Bunyan has
the clear warrant both of Jesus Christ and the Apostle Paul for the place on which he has planted
the Interpreter's house.  Intelligent children enjoy the pictures and the people that are set
before them in this illustrated house, but they must become the children of God, and must be
well on in the life of God, before they will be able to say that the house next the gate has
been a profitable and a helpful house to them.  All that is displayed here--all the furniture
and all the vessels, all the ornaments and all the employments and all the people of the Interpreter's
House--is fitted and intended to be profitable as well as interesting to pilgrims only.  No
man has any real interest in the things of this house, or will take any abiding profit out
of it, till he is fairly started on the upward road.  In his former life, and while still on
the other side of the gate, our pilgrim had no interest in such things as he is now to see
and hear; and if he had seen and heard them in his former life, he would not, with all the
Interpreter's explanation, have understood them.  As here among ourselves to-night, they who
will understand and delight in the things they hear in this house to-night are those only who
have really begun to live a religious life.  The realities of true religion are now the most
real things in life--to them; they love divine things now; and since they began to love divine
things, you cannot entertain them better than by exhibiting and explaining divine things to
them.  There is no house in all the earth, after the gate itself, that is more dear to the
true pilgrim heart than just the Interpreter's House.  'I was glad when it was said to me,
Let us go into the house of the Lord.  Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy
palaces.'

2.  And besides being built on the very best spot in all the land for its owner's purposes,
every several room in that great house was furnished and fitted up for the entertainment and
instruction of pilgrims.  Every inch of that capacious and many-chambered house was given up
to the delectation of pilgrims.  The public rooms were thrown open for their convenience and
use at all hours of the day and night, and the private rooms were kept retired and secluded
for such as sought retirement and seclusion.  There were dark rooms also with iron cages in
them, till Christian and his companions came out of those terrible places, bringing with them
an everlasting caution to watchfulness and a sober mind.  There were rooms also given up to
vile and sordid uses.  One room there was full of straws and sticks and dust, with an old man
who did nothing else day nor night but wade about among the straws and sticks and dust, and
rake it all into little heaps, and then sit watching lest any one should overturn them.  And
then, strange to tell it, and not easy to get to the full significance of it, the bravest room
in all the house had absolutely nothing in it but a huge, ugly, poisonous spider hanging to
the wall with her hands.  'Is there but one spider in all this spacious room?' asked the Interpreter.
And the water stood in Christiana's eyes; she had come by this time thus far on her journey
also.  A wall also stood apart on the grounds of the house with an always dying fire on one
side of it, while a man on the other side of the wall continually fed the fire through hidden
openings in the wall.  A whole palace stood also on the grounds, the inspection of which so
kindled our pilgrim's heart, that he refused to stay here any longer, or to see any more sights--so
much had he already seen of the evil of sin and of the blessedness of salvation. Not that he
had seen as yet the half of what that house held for the instruction of pilgrims.  The robin-red-breast
also, so pretty of note and colour and carriage, but instead of bread and crumbs, and such
like harmless matter, with a great spider in his mouth.  A tree also, whose inside was rotten,
and yet it grew and had leaves.  So they went on their way and sang:

   'This place hath been our second stage,
   Here have we heard and seen
   Those good things that from age to age
   To others hid have been.  Our ministers should have
something in their successive sermons for everybody.  Something for the
children, something for the slow-witted and the dull of understanding,
and something specially suited for those who are of a quick apprehension;
something at one time to make the people smile, at another time to make
them blush, and at another time to make the water stand in their eyes.

3.  And, then, the Interpreter's life was as full of work as his house was of entertainment
and instruction.  Not only so, but his life, it was well known, had been quite as full of work
before he had a house to work for as ever it had been since.  The Interpreter did nothing else
but continually preside over his house and all that was in it and around it, and it was all
gone over and seen to with his own eyes and hands every day.  He had been present at the laying
of every stone and beam of that solid and spacious house of his.  There was not a pin nor a
loop of its furniture, there was not a picture on its walls, nor a bird nor a beast in its
woods and gardens, that he did not know all about and could not hold discourse about.  And
then, after he had taken you all over his house, with its significant rooms and woods and gardens,
he was full all supper-time of all wise saws and witty proverbs.  'One leak will sink a ship,'
he said that night, 'and one sin will destroy a sinner.'  And all their days the pilgrims remembered
that word from the Interpreter's lips, and they often said it to themselves as they thought
of their own besetting sin.  Now, if it is indeed so, that every gospel minister is an interpreter,
and every evangelical church an interpreter's house, what an important passage this is for
all those who are proposing and preparing to be ministers.  Let them reflect upon it: what
a house this is that the Interpreter dwells in; how early and how long ago he began to lay
out his grounds and to build his house upon them; how complete in all its parts it is, and
how he still watches and labours to have it more complete. Understandest thou what thou here
readest? it is asked of all ministers, young and old, as they turn over John Bunyan's pungent
pages.  And every new room, every new bird, and beast, and herb, and flower makes us blush
for shame as we contrast our own insignificant and ill-furnished house with the noble house
of the Interpreter.  Let all our students who have not yet fatally destroyed themselves and
lost their opportunity lay the Interpreter's House well to heart.  Let them be students not
in idle name only, as so many are, but in intense reality, as so few are.  Let them read everything
that bears upon the Bible, and let them read nothing that does not.  They have not the time
nor the permission.  Let them be content to be men of one book.  Let them give themselves wholly
to the interpretation of divine truth as its riddles are set in nature and in man, in scripture,
in providence, and in spiritual experience.  Let them store their memories at college with
all sacred truth, and with all secular truth that can be made sacred.  And if their memories
are weak and treacherous, let them be quiet under God's will in that, and all the more labour
to make up in other ways for that defect, so that they may have always something to say to
the purpose when their future people come up to church hungry for instruction and comfort and
encouragement.  Let them look around and see the sin that sinks the ship of so many ministers;
and let them begin while yet their ship is in the yard and see that she is fitted up and furnished,
stored and stocked, so that she shall in spite of sure storms and sunken rocks deliver her
freight in the appointed haven.  When they are lying in bed of a Sabbath morning, let them
forecast the day when they shall have to give a strict account of their eight years of golden
opportunity among the churches, and the classes, and the societies, and the libraries of our
university seats. Let them be able to name some great book, ay, more than one great book, they
mastered, for every year of their priceless and irredeemable student life.  Let them all their
days have old treasure-houses that they filled full with scholarship and with literature and
with all that will minister to a congregation's many desires and necessities, collected and
kept ready from their student days.  'Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly up to
them, that thy profiting may appear unto all.'

4.  And then with a sly stroke at us old ministers, our significant author points out to us
how much better furnished the Interpreter's House was by the time Christiana and the boys visited
it compared with that early time when Christian was entertained in it.  Our pilgrim got far
more in the Interpreter's House of delight and instruction than he could carry out of it, but
that did not tempt the Interpreter to sit down and content himself with taking all his future
pilgrims into the same room, and showing them the same pictures, and repeating to them the
same explanations.  No, for he reflected that each coming pilgrim would need some new significant
room to himself, and therefore, as soon as he got one pilgrim off his hands, he straightway
set about building and furnishing new rooms, putting up new pictures, and replenishing his
woods and his waters with new beasts and birds and fishes.  I am ashamed, he said, that I had
so little to show when I first opened my gates to receive pilgrims, and I do not know why they
came to me as they did.  I was only a beginner in these things when my first visitor came to
my gates.  Let every long-settled, middle-aged, and even grey-headed minister read the life
of the Interpreter at this point and take courage and have hope.  Let it teach us all to break
some new ground in the field of divine truth with every new year.  Let it teach us all to be
students all our days.  Let us buy, somehow, the poorest and the oldest of us, some new and
first-rate book every year.  Let us not indeed shut up altogether our old rooms if they ever
had anything significant in them, but let us add now a new wing to our spiritual house, now
a new picture to its walls, and now a new herb to its gardens.  The fickle, frivolous, volatile
character of so many divinity students is excellently hit off by Bunyan in our pilgrim's impatience
to be out of the Interpreter's House.  No sooner had he seen one or two of the significant
rooms than this easily satisfied student was as eager to get out of that house as he had been
to get in.  Twice over the wise and learned Interpreter had to beg and beseech this ignorant
and impulsive pilgrim to stop and get another lesson in the religious life before he left the
great school-house.  All our professors of divinity and all our ministers understand the parable
at this point only too well.  Their students are eager to get into their classes; like our
pilgrim, they have heard the fame of this and that teacher, and there is not standing-room
in the class for the first weeks of the session.  But before Christmas there is room enough
for strangers, and long before the session closes, half the students are counting the weeks
and plotting to petition the Assembly against the length and labour of the curriculum.  Was
there ever a class that was as full and attentive at the end of the session as it was at the
beginning?  Never since our poor human nature was so stricken with laziness and shallowness
and self-sufficiency.  But what is the chaff to the wheat?  It is the wheat that deserves and
repays the husbandman's love and labour.  When Plato looked up from his desk in the Academy,
after reading and expounding one of his greatest Dialogues, he found only one student left
in the class-room, but then, that student was Aristotle.  'Now let me go,' said Christian.
'Nay, stay,' said the Interpreter, 'till I have showed thee a little more.'  'Sir, is it not
time for me to go?'  'Do tarry till I show thee just one thing more.'

6.  'Here have I seen things rare and profitable,

. . . Then let me be

Thankful, O good Interpreter, to thee.'

Sydney Smith, with his usual sagacity, says that the last vice of the pulpit is to be uninteresting.
Now, the Interpreter's House had this prime virtue in it, that it was all interesting.  Do
not our children beg of us on Sabbath nights to let them see the Interpreter's show once more;
it is so inexhaustibly and unfailingly interesting?  It is only stupid men and women who ever
weary of it.  But, 'profitable' was the one and universal word with which all the pilgrims
left the Interpreter's House. 'Rare and pleasant,' they said, and sometimes 'dreadful;' but
it was always 'profitable.'  Now, how seldom do we hear our people at the church door step
down into the street saying, 'profitable'?  If they said that oftener their ministers would
study profit more than they do.  The people say 'able,' or 'not at all able'; 'eloquent,' or
'stammering and stumbling'; 'excellent' in style and manner and accent, or the opposite of
all that; and their ministers, to please the people and to earn their approval, labour after
these approved things.  But if the people only said that the prayers and the preaching were
profitable and helpful, even when they too seldom are, then our preachers would set the profit
of the people far more before them both in selecting and treating and delivering their Sabbath-day
subjects.  A lady on one occasion said to her minister, 'Sir, your preaching does my soul good.'
And her minister never forgot the grave and loving look with which that was said.  Not only
did he never forget it, but often when selecting his subject, and treating it, and delivering
it, the question would rise in his heart and conscience, Will that do my friend's soul any
good?  'Rare and profitable,' said the pilgrim as he left the gate; and hearing that sent the
Interpreter back with new spirit and new invention to fill his house of still more significant,
rare, and profitable things than ever before.  'Meditate on these things,' said Paul to Timothy
his son in the gospel, 'that thy profiting may appear unto all.'  'Thou art a minister of the
word,' wrote the learned William Perkins beside his name on all his books, 'mind thy business.'

PASSION

   'A man subject to like passions as we are.'--James 5. 17.

That was a very significant room in the Interpreter's House where our pilgrim saw Passion and
Patience sitting each one in his chair.  Passion was a young lad who seemed to our pilgrim
to be much discontented.  He was never satisfied.  He would have all his good things now. 
His governor would have him wait for his best things till the beginning of next year; but no,
he will have them all now.  And then, when he had got all his good things, he soon lavished
and wasted them all till he had nothing left but rags.  Then said Christian to the Interpreter,
'Expound this matter more fully to me.'  So he said, 'Those two lads are figures; Passion,
of the men of this world; and Patience of the men of that which is to come.'  'Then I perceive,'
said Christian, ''tis not best to covet things that are now, but to wait for things to come.'
'You say truth,' replied the Interpreter, 'for the things that are seen are temporal, but the
things that are not seen are eternal.'

Now from the texts that I have taken out of James and out of this so significant room in the
Interpreter's House, let me try to tell you something profitable, if so it may be, about passion;
the nature of it, the place it holds, and the part it performs both in human nature and in
the life and the character of a Christian man.

The name of Passion has already told us his nature, his past life, and his present character.
The whole nomenclature of The Pilgrim's Progress and of The Holy War is composed on the divine,
original, and natural principle of embodying the nature of a man in his name.  God takes His
own names to Himself on that principle.  And so it was at first with all the Bible names of
men and of nations of men.  Their name contained their nature.  And John Bunyan was such a
student of the Bible, and of no other book but the Bible, that all his best books are all full,
like the Bible, of the most descriptive and suggestive names.  As soon as Bunyan tells us the
name of some new acquaintance or fellow-traveller, we already know him, so exactly is his nature
put into his name.  And thus it is that when we stop for a moment at the door of this little
significant room in the Interpreter's House and ask ourselves the meaning of the name Passion,
we see at once where we are and what we have here before us.  For a 'passion' is just some
excitement or agitation of the mind caused by some outward thing acting on the mind.  The inward
world of the mind and heart of man, and this outward world down into which God has placed man,
instantly and continually respond to one another.  And what are called, with so much correctness
and propriety, our passions, are just those inward responses, excitements, and agitations that
the outward world causes in the inward world when those two worlds meet together.  'Passion'
and 'perturbation' are the old classical names that the ancient philosophers and moralists
gave to what they felt in themselves as their minds and their hearts were affected by the world
of men and things around them.  And they used to illustrate their teaching on the subject of
the passions by the figure of a storm at sea.  They said that it was because God had made the
sea sensitive and responsive to the winds that blew over it that a storm at sea ever arose.
The storm did not arise and the ships were not wrecked by anything from within the sea itself;
it was the outward world of the winds striking against the quiet and inward world of the waters
that roused the storms and sank the ships.  And with that illustration well printed in the
minds and imaginations of their scholars the old moralists felt their work among their scholars
was already all but done.  For, so full of adaptation and appeal is the whole outward world
to the mind and heart of man, and so sensitive and instantly responsive is the mind and heart
of man to all the approaches of the outward world, that the mind and heart of man are constantly
full of all kinds of passions, both bad and good.  And, then, this is our present life of probation
and opportunity, that all our passions are placed within us and are committed and entrusted
to us as so many first elements and so much unformed material out of which we are summoned
to build up our life and to shape and complete our character. The springs of all our actions
are in our passions.  All our activities in life, trace them all up to their source, and they
will all be found to run up into the wellhead of our passions.  All our virtues are cut as
with a chisel out of our passions, and all our vices are just the disorders and rebellions
of our passions.  Our several passions, as they lie still asleep in our hearts, have as yet
no moral character; they are only the raw material so to speak, of moral character.  Our passions
are the life and the riches and the ornaments of human nature, and it is only because human
nature in its present estate is so corrupt and disordered and degraded, that the otherwise
so honourable name of passion has such a sinister sound to us.  And the full regeneration and
restitution of human nature will be accomplished when every several passion is in its right
place, and when reason and conscience and the Spirit of God shall inspire and rule and regulate
all that is within us.  He took to Himself a true body, full of all the appetites of the body,
and a reasonable soul, full of all the affections, passions, and emotions of the soul. Only,
in Him reason and conscience and the law and the Spirit of God were the card and the compass
according to which He steered His life.  We have all our ruling passion, and our Lord also
had His.  As His disciples saw His ruling passion kindled in His heart and coming out in His
life, they remembered that it was written of Him in an old Messianic psalm: 'The zeal of Thine
house hath eaten me up.'  They were all eaten up of their ruling passions also.  One of ambition,
one of emulation, one of avarice, and so on,--each several disciple was eaten up of his own
besetting sin. But they all saw that it was not so with their Master.  He was eaten up always
and wholly of the zeal of His Father's house, and of absolute surrender and devotion to His
Father's service, till His ruling passion was seen to be as strong in His death as it had been
in His life.  The Laird of Brodie's Diary has repeatedly been of great use to us in these inward
matters, and his words on this subject are well worth repeating. 'We poor creatures,' he says,
'are commanded by our affections and passions.  They are not at our command.  But the Holy
One doth exercise all His attributes at His own will; they are at His command; they are not
passions nor perturbations in His mind, though they transport us.  When I would hate, I cannot.
When I would love, I cannot.  When I would grieve, I cannot.  When I would desire, I cannot.
But it is the better for us that all is as He wills it to be.'

And now, to come still closer home, let us look for a moment or two at some of our own ruling
and tyrannising passions.  And let us look first at self-love--that master-passion in every
human heart.  Let us give self- love the first place in the inventory and catalogue of our
passions, because it has the largest place in all our hearts and lives.  Nay, not only has
self-love the largest place of any of the passions of our hearts, but it is out of self-love
that all our other evil passions spring.  It is out of this parent passion that all the poisonous
brood of our other evil passions are born.  The whole fall and ruin and misery of our present
human nature lies in this, that in every human being self- love has taken, in addition to its
own place, the place of the love of God and of the love of man also.  We naturally now love
nothing and no one but ourselves.  And as long as self-love is in the ascendant in our hearts,
all the passions that are awakened in us by our self-love will be selfish with its selfishness,
inhumane with its inhumanity, and ungodly with its ungodliness.  And it is to kill and extirpate
our so passionate self-love that is the end and aim of all God's dealings with us in this world.
All that God is doing with us and for us in providence and in grace, in the world and in the
church,--it is all to cure us of this deadly disease of self-love.  We may never have had that
told us before, and we may not like it, and we may not believe it; but there can be no better
proof of the truth of what is now said than just this, that we do not like it and will not
have it.  Self-love will not let us listen to the truth about ourselves; it puts us in a passion
both against the truth and against him who tells the truth, as the history of the truth abundantly
testifies.  Yes, your indignant protest is quite true.  Self- love has her divine rights,--no
doubt she has.  But you are not commanded to attend to them.  Your self-love will look after
herself.  She will manage to have her full share of what is right and proper for any passion
to possess even after she cries out that she is trampled upon and despoiled.  My brethren,
till you begin to crucify yourselves and to pluck up your self-love by the roots, you will
never know what a cruel and hopeless task the Christian life is--I do not say the Christian
profession.  Nor, on the other hand, will you ever discover what a noble task it is--what a
divine task and how divinely assisted and divinely recompensed.  You will not know what a kennel
of hell-hounds your own heart is till you have long sought to enter it and cleanse it out.
And after you have done your utmost, and your best, death will hurry you away from your but
half-accomplished task.  Only, in that case you will be able to die in the hope that what is
impossible with man is possible with God, as promised by Him, and that He will not leave your
soul in hell, but will perfect that good thing which alone concerneth you, even your everlasting
deliverance from all sinful self-love.

And if self-love is the fruitful mother of all our passions, then sensuality is surely her
eldest son.  Indeed, so shallow are we, and so shallow are our words, that when we speak of
sinful passion most men instantly think of sensuality.  There are so many seductive things
that appeal to our appetites, and our appetites are so easily awakened, and are so imperious
when they are awakened, that when passion is spoken about, few men think of the soul, all men
think instantly of the body. And no wonder.  For, stupid and besotted as we are, we must all
at some time of our life have felt the bondage and degradation of the senses. Passion in the
Interpreter's House had soon nothing left but rags.  And in this house to-night there are many
men whose consciences and hearts and characters are all in such rags from sensual sin, that
when the Scriptures speak of uncleanness, or rags, or corruption, their thoughts flee at once
to sensual sin and its conscience-rending results.  Cease from sensuality, said Cicero, for
if once you give your minds up to sensuality, you will never be able to think of anything else.

Ambition, emulation, and envy are the leading members of a whole prolific family of satanic
passions in the human heart.  Indeed, these passions, taken along with their kindred passions
of hatred and ill-will, are, in our Lord's words, the very lusts of the devil himself.  The
Jews hated our Lord the more for what He said about these detestable passions, but His own
disciples love Him only the more that He so well knows the evil affections of their hearts,
and so well describes and denounces them. Anybody can denounce sensual sin, and everybody will
understand and approve.  But spiritual sin,--ambition and emulation and envy and ill- will--these
things are more easy to denounce than they are to detect and describe, and more easy to detect
and describe than they are to cast out. These sins seem rather to multiply and to strike a
deeper root when you begin to cast them out.  What an utterly and abominably evil passion is
envy which is awakened not by bad things but by the best things!  That another man's talents,
attainments, praises, rewards should kindle it, and that the blame, the depreciation, the hurt
that another man suffers should satisfy it,--what a piece of very hell must that be in the
human heart!  What more do we need than just a little envy in our hearts to make us prostrate
penitents before God and man all our days?  What more doctrine, argument, proof, authority,
persuasion should a sane man need beyond a little envy in his heart at his best friend to make
him an evangelical believer and an evangelical preacher?  How, in the name of wonder, is it
that men can be so ignorant of the plague of their own hearts as to remain indifferent, and,
much more, hostile, to the gospel of love and holiness?  Pride, also,--what a hateful and intolerable
passion is that!  How stone-blind to his own state must that sinner be whose heart is filled
with pride, and how impossible it is for that man to make any real progress in any kind of
truth or goodness!  And resentment,--what a deep-seated, long-lived, and suicidal passion is
that!  How it hunts down him it hates, and how surely it shuts the door of salvation against
him who harbours it!  Forgive us our debts, the resentful man says in his prayer, as we forgive
our debtors.  And detraction,--how some men's ink-horns are filled with detraction for ink,
and how it drops from their tongue like poison!  At their every word a reputation dies.  Life
and all its opportunities of doing good and having good done to us is laid like a bag of treasure
at our feet, but, like the prodigal son in the Interpreter's House, with all those passions
raging in our own hearts at other men, and in other men's hearts at us, we have soon nothing
left us but rags.  God be thanked for every man here who sees and feels that he has nothing
left him but rags; and, still more, thanks for all those who see and feel how, by their bad
passions, sensual and spiritual, they have left on other people nothing but rags.

Now, from all this let us lay it to heart that our sanctification and salvation lie in our
mastery over all these and over many other passions that have not even been named.  He is an
accepted saint of God, who, taking his and other people's rags to God's mercy every day, every
day also in God's strength grapples with, bridles, and tames his own wild and ungodly passions.
Be not deceived, my friends; he alone is a saint of God who is a sanctified man; and his passions,--as
they are the spring of his actions, so they are the sphere and seat of his sanctification.
Be not deceived; that man, and no other manner of man, is, or ever will be, a partaker of God's
salvation.  You often hear me recommending those students who have first to subdue their own
passions and then the passions of those who hear them to study Jonathan Edwards' ethical and
spiritual writings.  Well, just at this present point, to show you how well that great man
practised what he preached, let me read to you a few lines from his biographer: 'Few men,'
says Henry Rogers, 'ever attained a more complete mastery over their passions than Jonathan
Edwards did.  This was partly owing to the ascendency of his intellect; partly, and in a still
greater degree, to the elevation of his piety.  For the subjugation of his passions he was
no doubt very greatly indebted to the prodigious superiority of his reason.  Such was the commanding
attitude his reason assumed, and such the tremendous power with which it controlled the whole
man, that any insurrection among his senses was hopeless; they had their tenure only by doing
fealty and homage to his intellect.  Those other and more dangerous enemies, because more subtle
and more spiritual, such as pride, vanity, wrath, and envy, which lurk in the inmost recesses
of our nature, and some of which have such affinities for a genius like that of Edwards, yield
not to such exorcism.  Such more powerful kind of demons go not forth but by prayer and fasting;
to their complete mortification, therefore, Edwards brought incessant watchfulness and devotion;
and seldom, assuredly, have they been more nearly expelled from the bosom of a depraved intelligence.'
We shall be in the best company, both intellectually and spiritually, if we work out our own
salvation among the sinful passions of our depraved hearts.  And then, as life goes on, and
we continue in well-doing, we shall be able to measure and register our growth in grace best
by watching the effect of outward temptations upon our still sinful and but half-sanctified
hearts.  And among much to be humbled for, and much to make us fear and tremble for the issue,
we shall, from time to time, have a good conscience and a holy and humble joy that this passion
and that is at last showing some signs of crucifixion and mortification.  And thus that death
to sin shall gradually set in which shall issue at last in an everlasting life unto holiness.
Bring forth the best robe and put it upon him, for this my son was dead, and is alive again;
he was lost, and is found . . . What are these that are arrayed in white robes, and whence
came they?  And their names, like their natures, spring up from the same root.  'Patience,'
says Crabb in his English Synonyms, 'comes from the active participle to suffer; while passion
comes from the passive participle of the same verb; and hence the difference between the two
names.  Patience signifies suffering from an active principle, a determination to suffer; while
passion signifies what is suffered from want of power to prevent the suffering.  Patience,
therefore, is always taken in a good sense, and Passion always in a bad sense.'  So far this
excellent etymologist.  This is, therefore, another case of blessing and cursing proceeding
out of the same mouth, and of the same fountain sending forth at the same place both sweet
water and bitter.

Our Lord tells us in this striking text that our very souls by reason of sin are not our own.
He tells us that we have lost hold of our souls before we have as yet come to know that we
have souls.  We only discover that we have souls after we have lost them.  And our Lord,--our
best, indeed our only, authority in the things of the soul,--here tells us that it is only
by patience that we shall ever win back our lost souls.  More, far more, is needed to the winning
back of a lost soul than its owner's patience, and our Lord knew that to His cost.  But that
is not His point with us to-night.  His sole point with each one of us to-night is our personal
part in the conquest and redemption of our sin-enslaved souls. He who has redeemed our souls
with His own blood tells us with all plainness of speech, that His blood will be shed in vain,
as far as we are concerned, unless we add to His atoning death our own patient life. Every
human life, as our Lord looks at it, and would have us look at it, is a vast field of battle
in which a soul is lost or won; little as we think of it or will believe it, in His sight every
trial, temptation, provocation, insult, injury, and all kinds and all degrees of pain and suffering,
are all so many divinely appointed opportunities afforded us for the reconquest and recovery
of our souls.  Sometimes faith is summoned into the battle-field, sometimes hope, sometimes
self-denial, sometimes prayer, sometimes one grace and sometimes another; but as with the sound
of a trumpet the Captain of our salvation here summons Patience to the forefront of the fight.

1.  To begin with, how much impatience we are all from time to time guilty of in our family
life.  Among the very foundations of our family life how much impatience the husband often
exhibits toward the wife, and the wife toward her husband.  Patience is the very last grace
they look forward to having any need of when they are still dreaming about their married life;
but, in too many cases, they have not well entered on that life, when they find that they need
no grace of God so much as just patience, if the yoke of their new life is not to gall them
beyond endurance.  However many good qualities of mind and heart and character any husband
or wife may have, no human being is perfect, and most of us are very far from being perfect.
When therefore, we are closely and indissolubly joined to another life and another will, it
is no wonder that sometimes the ill-fitting yoke eats into a lifelong sore.  We have all many
defects in our manners, in our habits, and in our constitutional ways of thinking and speaking
and acting,--defects that tempt those who live nearest us to fall into annoyances with us that
sometimes deepen into dislike, and even positive disgust, till it has been seen, in some extreme
cases, that home-life has become a very prison-house, in which the impatient prisoner chafes
and jibs and strikes out as he does nowhere else.  Now, when any unhappy man or woman wakens
up to discover how different life is now to be from what it once promised to become, let them
know that all their past blindness, and precipitancy, and all the painful results of all that,
may yet be made to work together for good. In your patience with one another, says our Lord,
you will make a conquest of your adverse lot, and of your souls to the bargain.  Say to yourselves,
therefore, that perfection, faultlessness, and absolute satisfaction are not to be found in
this world.  And say also that since you have not brought perfection to your side of the house
any more than your partner has to his side, you are not so foolish as to expect perfection
in return for such imperfection.  You have your own share of what causes fireside silence,
aversion, disappointment, and dislike; and, with God's help, say that you will patiently submit
to what may not now be mended.  And then, the sterner the battle the nobler will the victory
be; and the lonelier the fight, the more honour to him who flinches not from it.  In your patience
possess ye your souls.

What a beautiful, instructive, and even impressive sight it is to see a nurse patiently cherishing
her children!  How she has her eye and her heart at all their times upon them, till she never
has any need to lay her hand upon them!  Passion has no place in her little household, because
patience fills all its own place and the place of passion too. What a genius she displays in
her talks to her children!  How she cheats their little hours of temptation, and tides them
over the rough places that her eye sees lying like sunken rocks before her little ship!  How
skilfully she stills and heals their impulsive little passions by her sudden and absorbing
surprise at some miracle in a picture-book, or some astonishing sight under her window!  She
has a thousand occupations also for her children, and each of them with a touch of enterprise
and adventure and benevolence in it.  She is so full of patience herself, that the little gusts
of passion are soon over in her presence, and the sunshine is soon back brighter than ever
in her little paradise.  And, over and above her children rising up and calling her blessed,
what wounds she escapes in her own heart and memory by keeping her patient hands from ever
wounding her children!  What peace she keeps in the house, just by having peace always within
herself!  Paul can find no better figure wherewith to set forth God's marvellous patience with
Israel during her fretful childhood in the wilderness, than just that of such a nurse among
her provoking children.  And we see the deep hold that same touching and instructive sight
had taken of the apostle's heart as he returns to it again to the Thessalonians: 'We were gentle
among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children.  So, being affectionately desirous of you,
we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls,
because ye were dear unto us.'  What a school of divine patience is every man's own family
at home if he only were teachable, observant, and obedient!

2.  Clever, quick-witted, and, themselves, much-gifted men, are terribly intolerant of slow
and stupid men, as they call them.  But the many-talented man makes a great mistake here, and
falls into a great sin. In his fulness of all kinds of intellectual gifts, he quite forgets
from Whom he has his many gifts, and why it is that his despised neighbour has so few gifts.
If you have ten or twenty talents, and I have only two, who is to be praised and who is to
be blamed for that allotment?  Your cleverness has misled you and has hitherto done you far
more evil than good.  You bear yourself among ordinary men, among less men than yourself, as
if you had added all these cubits to your own stature.  You ride over us as if you had already
given in your account, and had heard it said, Take the one talent from them and give it to
this my ten-talented servant.  You seem to have set it down to your side of the great account,
that you had such a good start in talent, and that your fine mind had so many tutors and governors
all devoting themselves to your advancement.  And you conduct yourself to us as if the Righteous
Judge had cast us away from His presence, because we were not found among the wise and mighty
of this world.  The truth is, that the whole world is on a wholly wrong tack in its praise
and in its blame.  We praise the man of great gifts, and we blame the man of small gifts, completely
forgetful that in so doing we give men the praise that belongs to God, and lay on men the blame,
which, if there is any blame in the matter, ought to be laid elsewhere.  Learn and lay to heart,
my richly-gifted brethren, to be patient with all men, but especially to be patient with all
stupid, slow- witted, ungifted, God-impoverished men.  Do not add your insults and your ill-usage
to the low estate of those on whom, in the meantime, God's hand lies so cold and so straitened.
For who maketh thee to differ from another? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive?
Now, if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory as if thou hadst not received it? Call that
to mind the next time you are tempted to cry out that you have no patience with your slow-witted
servant.

3.  'Is patient with the bad' is one of the tributes of praise that is paid in the fine paraphrase
to that heart that is full of the same love that is in God.  A patient love to the unjust and
the evil is one of the attributes and manifestations of the divine nature, as that nature is
seen both in God and in all genuinely godly men.  And, indeed, in no other thing is the divine
nature so surely seen in any man as just in his love to and his patience with bad men.  He
schools and exercises himself every day to be patient and good to other men as God has been
to him.  He remembers when tempted to resentment how God did not resent his evil, but, while
he was yet an enemy to God and to godliness, reconciled him to Himself by the death of His
Son.  And ever since the godly man saw that, he has tried to reconcile his worst enemies to
himself by the death of his impatience and passion toward them, and has more pitied than blamed
them, even when their evil was done against himself.  Let God judge, and if it must be, condemn
that bad man.  But I am too bad myself to cast a stone at the worst and most injurious of men.
If we so much pity ourselves for our sinful lot, if we have so much compassion on ourselves
because of our inherited and unavoidable estate of sin and misery, why do we not share our
pity and our compassion with those miserable men who are in an even worse estate than our own?
At any rate, I must not judge them lest I be judged.  I must take care when I say, Forgive
me my trespasses, as I forgive them that trespass against me.  Not to seven times must I grudgingly
forgive, but ungrudgingly to seventy times seven.  For with what judgment I judge, I shall
be judged; and with what measure I mete, it shall be measured to me again.

   'Love harbours no suspicious thought,
   Is patient to the bad:
   Grieved when she hears of sins and crimes,
   And in the truth is glad.'

4.  And then, most difficult and most dangerous, but most necessary of all patience, we must
learn how to be patient with ourselves.  Every day we hear of miserable men rushing upon death
because they can no longer endure themselves and the things they have brought on themselves.
And there are moral suicides who cast off the faith and the hope and the endurance of a Christian
man because they are so evil and have lived such an evil life.  We speak of patience with bad
men, but there is no man so bad, there is no man among all our enemies who has at all hurt
us like that man who is within ourselves.  And to bear patiently what we have brought upon
ourselves,--to endure the inward shame, the self-reproof, the self-contempt bitterer to drink
than blood, the lifelong injuries, impoverishment, and disgrace,--to bear all these patiently
and uncomplainingly,--to acquiesce humbly in the discovery that all this was always in our
hearts, and still is in our hearts--what humility, what patience, what compassion and pity
for ourselves must all that call forth!  The wise nurse is patient with her passionate, greedy,
untidy, disobedient child.  She does not cast it out of doors, she does not run and leave it,
she does not kill it because all these things have been and still are in its sad little heart.
Her power for good with such a child lies just in her pity, in her compassion, and in her patience
with her child.  And the child that is in all of us is to be treated in the same patient, hopeful,
believing, forgiving, divine way.  We should all be with ourselves as God is with us.  He knoweth
our frame.  He remembereth that we are dust.  He shows all patience toward us.  He does not
look for great things from us.  He does not break the bruised reed, nor quench the smoking
flax.  He shall not fail nor be discouraged till He have set judgment in the earth.  And so
shall not we.

5.  And, then,--it is a sufficiently startling thing to say, but--we must learn to be patient
with God also.  All our patience, and all the exercises of it, if we think aright about it,
all run up in the long-run into patience with God.  But there are some exercises of patience
that have to do directly and immediately with God and with God alone.  When any man's heart
has become fully alive to God and to the things of God; when he begins to see and feel that
he lives and moves and has his being in God; then everything that in any way affects him is
looked on by him as come to him from God.  Absolutely, all things.  The very weather that everybody
is so atheistic about, the climate, the soil he labours, the rain, the winter's cold and the
summer's heat,--true piety sees all these things as God's things, and sees God's immediate
will in the disposition and dispensation of them all.  He feels the untameableness of his tongue
in the indecent talk that goes on everlastingly about the weather.  All these things may be
without God to other men, as they once were to him also, but you will find that the truly and
the intelligently devout man no longer allows himself in such unbecoming speech.  For, though
he cannot trace God's hand in all the changes of the seasons, in heat and cold, in sunshine
and snow, yet he is as sure that God's wisdom and will are there as that Scripture is true
and the Scripture-taught heart. 'Great is our Lord, and His understanding is infinite.  Who
covereth the heavens with clouds, and prepareth rain for the earth, and maketh the grass to
grow upon the mountains.  He giveth snow like wool; He scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes;
He casteth forth His ice like morsels.  Who can stand before his cold?'  Here is the patience
and the faith of the saints.  Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith
of Jesus Christ.

And, then, when through rain or frost or fire, when out of any terror by night or arrow that
flieth by day, any calamity comes on the man who is thus pointed and practised in his patience,
he is able with Job to say, 'This is the Lord.  That noble treatise had its origin in the great
fire of London in 1666.  The learned President of Magdalen College lost the half of his library,
five hundred pounds worth of the best books, in that terrible fire.  And his son tells us he
had often heard his father say that in the loss of his not-to-be-replaced books, God had struck
him in a very sensible place.  To lose his Augustine, and his Calvin, and his Musculus, and
his Zanchius, and his Amesius, and his Suarez, and his Estius was a sore stroke to such a man.
I loved my books too well, said the great preacher, and God rebuked me by this affliction.
Let the students here read Goodwin's costly treatise, and they will be the better prepared
to meet such calamities as the burning of their manse and their library, as also to counsel
and comfort their people when they shall lose their shops or their stockyards by fire. God
has not seen it good to carry us to heaven on the day of our conversion.  He does not glorify
us on the same day that He justifies us. We are appointed to salvation indeed, but it is also
appointed us to wait long for it.  This is not our rest.  We are called to be pilgrims and
strangers for a season with God upon the earth.  We are told to endure to the end.  It is to
be through faith and patience that we, with our fathers, shall at last inherit the promises.
Holiness is not a Jonah's gourd.  It does not come up in a night, and it does not perish in
a night.  Holiness is the Divine nature, and it takes a lifetime to make us partakers of it.
But, then, if the time is long the thing is sure.  Let us, then, with a holy and a submissive
patience wait for it.

It startles us not a little to come suddenly upon three pilgrims fast asleep with fetters on
their heels on the upward side of the Interpreter's House, and even on the upward side of the
cross and the sepulchre.  We would have looked for those three miserable men somewhere in the
City of Destruction or in the Town of Stupidity, or, at best, somewhere still outside of the
wicket-gate.  But John Bunyan did not lay down his Pilgrim's Progress on any abstract theory,
or on any easy and pleasant presupposition, of the Christian life.  He constructed his so lifelike
book out of his own experiences as a Christian man, as well as out of all he had learned as
a Christian minister.  And in nothing is Bunyan's power of observation, deep insight, and firm
hold of fact better seen than just in the way he names and places the various people of the
pilgrimage.  Long after he had been at the Cross of Christ himself, and had seen with his own
eyes all the significant rooms in the Interpreter's House, Bunyan had often to confess that
the fetters of evil habit, unholy affection, and a hard heart were still firmly riveted on
his own heels. And his pastoral work had led him to see only too well that he was not alone
in the temptations and the dangers and the still-abiding bondage to sin that had so surprised
himself after he was so far on in the Christian life.  It was the greatest sorrow of his heart,
he tells us in a powerful passage in his Grace Abounding, that so many of his spiritual children
broke down and came short in the arduous and perilous way in which he had so hopefully started
them.

SIMPLE

Let us shake up Simple first and ask him what it was that laid him so soon and in such a plight
and in such company in this bottom.  It was not that which from his name we might at first
think it was.  It was not the weakness of his intellects, nor his youth, nor his inexperience.
There is danger enough, no doubt, in all these things if they are not carefully attended to,
but none of all these things in themselves, nor all of them taken together, will lay any pilgrim
by the heels.  There must be more than mere and pure simplicity.  No blame attaches to a simple
mind, much less to an artless and an open heart.  We do not blame such a man even when we pity
him.  We take him, if he will let us, under our care, or we put him under better care, but
we do not anticipate any immediate ill to him so long as he remains simple in mind, untainted
in heart, and willing to learn.  But, then, unless he is better watched over than any young
man or young woman can well be in this world, that simplicity and child-likeness and inexperience
of his may soon become a fatal snare to him.  There is so much that is not simple and sincere
in this world; there is so much falsehood and duplicity; there are so many men abroad whose
endeavour is to waylay, mislead, entrap, and corrupt the simple- minded and the inexperienced,
that it is next to impossible that any youth or maiden shall long remain in this world both
simple and safe also.  My son, says the Wise Man, keep my words, and lay up my commandments
with thee.  And so, too often in our own land, the maiden in her simplicity also opens her
ear to the promises and vows and oaths of the flatterer, till she loses both her simplicity
and her soul, and lies buried in that same bottom beside Sloth and Presumption.

It is not so much his small mind and his weak understanding that is the fatal danger of their
possessor, it is his imbecile way of treating his small mind.  In our experience of him we
cannot get him, all we can do, to read an instructive book.  We cannot get him to attend our
young men's class with all the baits and traps we can set for him.  Where does he spend his
Sabbath-day and week-day evenings?  We cannot find out until we hear some distressing thing
about him, that, ten to one, he would have escaped had he been a reader of good books, or a
student with us, say, of Dante and Bunyan and Rutherford, and a companion of those young men
and young women who talk about and follow such intellectual tastes and pursuits.  Now, if you
are such a young man or young woman as that, or such an old man or old woman, you will not
be able to understand what in the world Bunyan can mean by saying that he saw you in his dream
fast asleep in a bottom with irons on your heels.  No; for to understand the Pilgrim's Progress,
beyond a nursery and five-year-old understanding of it, you must have worked and studied and
suffered your way out of your mental and spiritual imbecility.  You must have for years attended
to what is taught from the pulpit and the desk, and, alongside of that, you must have made
a sobering and solemnising application of it all to your own heart.  And then you would have
seen and felt that the heels of your mind and of your heart are only too firmly fettered with
the irons of ignorance and inexperience and self-complacency.  But as it is, if you would tell
the truth, you would say to us what Simple said to Christian, I see no danger.  The next time
that John Bunyan passed that bottom, the chains had been taken off the heels of this sleeping
fool and had been put round his neck.

SLOTH

Sloth had a far better head than Simple had; but what of that when he made no better use of
it?  There are many able men who lie all their days in a sad bottom with the irons of indolence
and inefficiency on their heels.  We often envy them their abilities, and say about them, What
might they not have done for themselves and for us had they only worked hard?  Just as we are
surprised to see other men away above us on the mountain top, not because they have better
abilities than we have, but because they tore the fetters of sloth out of their soft flesh
and set themselves down doggedly to their work.  And the same sloth that starves and fetters
the mind at the same time casts the conscience and the heart into a deep sleep.  I often wonder
as I go on working among you, if you ever attach any meaning or make any application to yourselves
of all those commands and counsels of which the Scriptures are full,--to be up and doing, to
watch and pray, to watch and be sober, to fight the good fight of faith, to hold the fort,
to rise early, and even by night, and to endure unto death, and never for one moment to be
found off your guard.  Do you attach any real meaning to these examples of the psalmists, to
these continual commands and examples of Christ, and to these urgent counsels of his apostles?
Do you?  Against whom and against what do you thus campaign and fight?  For fear of whom or
of what do you thus watch?  What fort do you hold?  What occupies your thoughts in night- watches,
and what inspires and compels your early prayers?  It is your stupefying life of spiritual
sloth that makes it impossible for you to answer these simple and superficial questions.  Sloth
is not the word for it.  Let them give the right word to insanity like that who sleep and soak
in sinful sloth no longer.

We have all enemies in our own souls that never sleep, whatever we may do.  There are no irons
on their heels.  They never procrastinate.  They never say to their master, A little more slumber.
Now, could you name any hateful enemy entrenched in your own heart, of which you have of yourself
said far more than that?  And, if so, what have you done, what are you at this moment doing,
to cast that enemy out?  Have you any armour on, any weapons of offence and precision, against
that enemy?  And what success and what defeat have you had in unearthing and casting out that
enemy?  What fort do you hold?  On what virtue, on what grace are you posted by your Lord to
keep for yourself and for Him?  And with what cost of meat and drink and sleep and amusement
do you lose it or keep it for Him?  Alexander used to leave his tent at midnight and go round
the camp, and spear to his post the sentinel he found sleeping.

There is nothing we are all so slothful in as secret, particular, importunate prayer.  We have
an almighty instrument in our hand in secret and exact prayer if we would only importunately
and perseveringly employ it.  But there is an utterly unaccountable restraint of secret and
particularising prayer in all of us.  There is a soaking, stupefying sloth, that so fills our
hearts that we forget and neglect the immense concession and privilege we have afforded us
in secret prayer.  Our sloth and stupidity in prayer is surely the last proof of our fall and
of the misery of our fallen state.  Our sloth with a gold mine open at our feet; a little more
sleep on the top of a mast with a gulf under us that hath no bottom,--no language of this life
can adequately describe the besottedness of that man who lies with irons on his heels between
Simple and Presumption.

PRESUMPTION

The greatest theologian of the Roman Catholic Church has made an induction and classification
of sins that has often been borrowed by our Protestant and Puritan divines.  His classification
is made, as will be seen, on an ascending scale of guilt and aggravation.  In the world of
sin, he says, there are, first, sins of ignorance; next, there are sins of infirmity; and then,
at the top, there are sins of presumption.  And this, it will be remembered, was the Psalmist's
inventory and estimate of sins also.  His last and his most earnest prayer was, that he might
be kept back from all presumptuous sin.  Now you know quite well, without any explanation,
what presumption is.  Don't presume, you say, with rising and scarce controlled anger.  Don't
presume too far.  Take care, you say, with your heart beating so high that you can scarcely
command it, take care lest you go too far.  And the word of God feels and speaks about presumptuous
sin very much as you do yourself.  Now, what gave this third man who lay in fetters a little
beyond the cross the name of Presumption was just this, that he had been at the cross with
his past sin, and had left the cross to commit the same sin at the first opportunity.  Presumption
presumed upon his pardon.  He presumed upon the abounding grace of God.  He presumed upon the
blood of Christ.  He was so high on the Atonement, that he held that the gospel was not sufficiently
preached to him, unless not past sin only and present, but also all future sin was atoned for
on the tree before it was committed.  There is a reprobate in Dante, who, all the time he was
repenting, had his eye on his next opportunity.  Now, our Presumption was like that.  He presumed
on his youth, on his temptations, on his opportunities, and especially on his future reformation
and the permanence and the freeness of the gospel offer.  When he was in the Interpreter's
House he did not hear what the Interpreter was saying, the blood was roaring so through his
veins.  His eyes were so full of other images that he did not see the man in the iron cage,
nor the spider on the wall, nor the fire fed secretly.  He had no more intention of keeping
always to the way that was as straight as a rule could make it, than he had of cutting off
both his hands and plucking out both his eyes.  When the three shining ones stripped him of
his rags and clothed him with change of raiment, he had no more intention of keeping his garments
clean than he had of flying straight up to heaven on the spot.  Now, let each man name to himself
what that is in which he intentionally, deliberately, and by foresight and forethought sins.
Have you named it?  Well, it was for that that this reprobate was laid by the heels on the
immediately hither side of the cross and the sepulchre.  Not that the iron might not have been
taken off his heels again on certain conditions, even after it was on; but, even so, he would
never have been the same man again that he was before his presumptuous sin.  You will easily
know a man who has committed much presumptuous sin,--that is to say, if you have any eye for
a sinner.  I think I would find him out if I heard him pray once, or preach once, or even select
a psalm for public or for family worship; even if I heard him say grace at a dinner-table,
or reprove his son, or scold his servant.  Presumptuous sin has so much of the venom and essence
of sin in it that, forgiven or unforgiven, even a little of it never leaves the sinner as it
found him.  Even if his fetters are knocked off, there is always a piece of the poisonous iron
left in his flesh; there is always a fang of his fetters left in the broken bone.  The presumptuous
saint will always be detected by the way he halts on his heels all his after days.  Keep back
Thy servant, O God, from presumptuous sin.  Let him be innocent of the great transgression.

Dr. Thomas Goodwin says somewhere that the worm that dieth not only comes to its sharpest sting
and to its deadliest venom when it is hatched up under gospel light.  The very light of nature
itself greatly aggravates some of our sins.  The light of our early education greatly aggravates
others of our sins.  But nothing wounds our conscience and then exasperates the wound like
a past experience of the same sin, and, especially, an experience of the grace of God in forgiving
that sin.  Had we found young Presumption in his irons before his conversion, we would have
been afraid enough at the sight.  Had we found him laid by the heels after his first uncleanness,
it would have made us shudder for ourselves. But we are horrified and speechless as we see
him apprehended and laid in irons on the very night of his first communion, and with the wine
scarcely dry on his unclean lips.  Augustine postponed his baptism till he should have his
fill of sin, and till he should no longer return to sin like a dog to his vomit.  Now, next
Sabbath is our communion day in this congregation.  Let us therefore this week examine ourselves.
And if we must sin as long as we are in this world, let it henceforth be the sin of ignorance
and of infirmity.

John Bunyan's autobiography, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, is the best of all our
commentaries on The Pilgrim's Progress, and again to-night I shall have to fall back on that
incomparable book.  There is not room for many pilgrims to walk abreast in that way; indeed,
there is seldom room for two.  There are some parts of the way where two or even three pilgrims
can for a time walk and converse together, but for the most part the path is distressingly
lonely.  The way is so fenced up also that a pilgrim cannot so much as look either to the right
hand or the left.  Indeed, it is one of the laws of that road that no man is to attempt to
look except straight on before him.  But then there is this compensation for the solitude and
stringency of the way that the wall that so encloses it is Salvation.  And Salvation is such
a wall that it is companionship and prospect enough of itself.  Dante saw a long reach of this
same wall running round the bottom of the mount that cleanses him who climbs it,--a long stretch
of such sculptured beauty, that it arrested him and instructed him and delighted him beyond
his power sufficiently to praise it.  And thus, that being so, burdened and bowed down to the
earth as our pilgrim was, he was on the sure way, sooner or later, to deliverance. Somewhere
and sometime and somehow on that steep and high fenced way deliverance was sure to come.  And,
then, as to the burdened man himself. His name was once Graceless, but his name is Graceless
no longer.  No graceless man runs long between these close and cramping-up walls; and, especially,
no graceless man has that burden long on his back.  That is not Graceless any longer who is
leaving the Interpreter's House for the fenced way; that is Christian, and as long as he remains
Christian, the closeness of the fence and the weight of his burden are a small matter. But
long-looked-for comes at last.  And so, still carrying his burden and keeping close within
the fenced-up way, our pilgrim came at last to a cross.  And a perfect miracle immediately
took place in that somewhat ascending ground.  For scarcely had Christian set his eyes on the
cross, when, without his pulling at it, or pushing it, or even at that moment thinking of it,
ere ever he was aware, he saw his burden begin to tumble, and so it continued to do till it
fell fairly out of his sight into an open sepulchre.

The application of all that is surely self-evident.  For our way in a holy life is always closely
fenced up.  It is far oftener a lonely way than otherwise.  And the steepness, sternness, and
loneliness of our way are all aggravated by the remembrance of our past sins and follies. 
They still, and more and more, lie upon our hearts a heart-crushing burden. But if we, like
Christian, know how to keep our back to our former house and our face to heaven, sooner or
later we too shall surely come to the cross.  And then, either suddenly, or after a long agony,
our burden also shall be taken off our back and shut down into Christ's sepulchre.  And I saw
it no more, says the dreamer.  He does not say that its owner saw it no more.  He was too wise
and too true a dreamer to say that.

It will be remembered that the first time we saw this man, with whose progress to the Celestial
City we are at present occupied, he was standing in a certain place clothed with rags and with
a burden on his back.  After a long journey with him, we have just seen his burden taken off
his back, and it is only after his burden is off and a Shining One has said to him, Thy sins
be forgiven, that a second Shining One comes and strips him of his rags and clothes him with
change of raiment.  Now, why, it may be asked, has Christian had to carry his burden so long,
and why is he still kept so ragged and so miserable and he so far on in the pilgrim's path?
Surely, it will be said, John Bunyan was dreaming indeed when he kept a truly converted man,
a confessedly true and sincere Christian, so long in bonds and in rags.  Well, as to his rags:
filthy rags are only once spoken of in the Bible, and it is the prophet Isaiah, whose experience
and whose language John Bunyan had so entirely by heart, who puts them on.  And that evangelist
among the prophets not only calls his own and Israel's sins filthy rags, but Isaiah is very
bold, and calls their very righteousnesses by that opprobrious name.  Had that bold prophet
said that all his and all his people's unrighteousnesses were filthy rags, all Israel would
have subscribed to that.  There was no man so brutish as not to admit that.  But as long as
they had any sense of truth and any self-respect, multitudes of Isaiah's first hearers and
readers would resent what he so rudely said of their righteousnesses.  On the other hand, the
prophet's terrible discovery and comparison, just like our dreamer's dramatic distribution
of Christian experience, was, to a certainty, an immense consolation to many men in Israel
in his day. They gathered round Isaiah because, but for him and his evangelical ministry, they
would have been alone in their despair.  To them Isaiah's ministry was a house of refuge, and
the prophet himself a veritable tower of strength.  They felt they were not alone so long as
Isaiah dwelt in the same city with them.  And thus, whatever he might be to others, he was
God's very prophet to them as his daily prayers in the temple both cast them down and lifted
them up.  'Oh that Thou wouldst rend the heavens and come down . . . But we are all as an unclean
thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags, and our iniquities like the wind have
taken us away.'  Thousands in Israel found in these terrible words a door of hope, a sense
of fellowship, and a call to trust and thanksgiving.  And tens of thousands have found the
same help and consolation out of what have seemed to others the very darkest and most perplexing
pages of the Pilgrim's Progress and the Grace Abounding. 'It made me greatly ashamed,' says
Hopeful, 'of the vileness of my former life, and confounded me with the sense of mine own ignorance,
for there never came into mine heart before now that showed me so by contrast the beauty of
the Lord Jesus.  My own vileness and nakedness made me love a holy life.  Yes; but a voice
answered me, You are not all for God, you are not an angel.  To which my whole soul replied,
I as sincerely desire to love and glorify God as any angel in heaven.  But you are filthy,
and not fit for heaven.  When hereupon there instantly appeared above me and spread over me
the blessed robes of Christ's righteousness which I could not but exult and triumph in.  And
then I knew that I should be as active as an angel in heaven, and should then be for ever stripped
of my filthy garments and clothed with spotless raiment.'  Let me die the death of David Brainerd,
and let my latter end be like his!

The third Shining One then came forward and set a mark on the forehead of this happy man. 
And it was a most ancient and a most honourable mark. For it was the same redeeming mark that
was set by Moses upon the foreheads of the children of Israel when the Lord took them into
covenant with Himself at the Passover in the wilderness.  It was the same distinguishing mark
also that the man with the slaughter-weapon in his hand first set upon the foreheads of the
men who sighed and cried for the abominations that were done in the midst of Jerusalem.  And
it was the same glorious mark that John saw in the foreheads of the hundred and forty and four
thousand who stood upon Mount Zion and sang a song that no man knew but those men who had been
redeemed from the earth by the blood of the Lamb.  The mark was set for propriety and for ornament
and for beauty.  It was set upon his forehead so that all who looked on him ever after might
thus know to what company and what country he belonged, and that this was not his rest, but
that he had been called and chosen to a heavenly inheritance.  And, besides, it was no sooner
set upon his forehead than it greatly added to his dignity and his comeliness.  He had now
the gravity and beauty of an angel; nay, the beauty in his measure and the gravity of Goodwill
at the gate himself.  And, then, as if that were not enough, the third Shining One also gave
him a roll with a seal upon it, which he was bidden look on as he ran, and which he was to
give in when he arrived at the Celestial Gate.  Now, what was that sealed roll but just the
inward memory and record of all this pilgrim's experiences of the grace of God from the day
he set out on pilgrimage down to that day when he stood unburdened of his guilt, unclothed
of his rags, and clothed upon with change of raiment?  The roll contained his own secret life,
all sealed and shone in upon by the light of God's countenance.  The secret of the Lord with
this pilgrim was written within that roll, a secret that no man could read but he himself alone.
It was the same roll that this same Shining One gave to Abraham, the first pilgrim and the
father of all true pilgrims, after Melchizedek, the priest of the Most High God, had brought
forth bread and wine and had blessed that great believer.  'Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield,
and thy exceeding great reward.'  And, again, after Abram had lost his roll, like our pilgrim
in the arbour, when he recovered it he read thus in it: 'I am the Almighty God: walk before
Me, and be thou perfect.  And I will make My covenant between Me and thee.'  And Abram fell
on his face for joy.  For after the Lord had plucked Joshua as a brand out of the fire, and
had made his iniquity to pass from him, and had clothed him with change of raiment, and had
set a fair mitre on his head, the Lord gave to Joshua a sealed roll, the contents of which
may be read to this day in the book of the prophet Zechariah.  Nay, more: 'Will you have me
to speak plainly?' says great Goodwin on this matter.  'Then, though our Lord had the assurance
of faith that He was the Son of God, for He knew it out of the Scriptures by reading all the
prophets, yet, to have it sealed to Him with joy unspeakable and glorious,--this was deferred
to the time of His baptism.  He was then anointed with the oil of assurance and gladness in
a more peculiar and transcendent manner.'  'In His baptism,' says Bengel, 'our Lord was magnificently
enlightened.  He was previously the Son of God, and yet the power of the Divine testimony to
His Sonship at His baptism long affected Him in a lively manner.'  And we see our Lord reading
His roll to assure and sustain His heart when all outward acceptance and sustenance failed
Him.  'There is One who beareth witness of Me, and His witness is true.  I receive not witness
from men. I have a greater witness than even that of John.  For the Father Himself that hath
sent Me, He beareth witness of Me.'  No wonder that our heavy- laden pilgrim of yesterday gave
three leaps for joy and went on singing with such a roll as that in his bosom.  For, at that
supreme moment he had that inward illumination and assurance sealed on his heart that had so
gladdened and sustained so many prophets and psalmists and apostles and saints before his day.
And though, like Abraham and all the other saints who ever had that noble roll put into their
keeping, except Jesus Christ, he often lost it, yet as often as he again recovered it, it brought
back again with it all his first joy and gladness.

But, as was said at the beginning, the Grace Abounding is the best of all our commentaries
on The Pilgrim's Progress.

We all began our religious life by being formalists.  And we were not altogether to blame for
that.  Our parents were first to blame for that, and then our teachers, and then our ministers.
They made us say our psalm and our catechism to them, and if we only said our sacred lesson
without stumbling, we were straightway rewarded with their highest praise.  They seldom took
the trouble to make us understand the things we said to them.  They were more than content
with our correct repetition of the words.  We were never taught either to read or repeat with
our eyes on the object.  And we had come to our manhood before we knew how to seek for the
visual image that lies at the root of all our words.  And thus the ill-taught schoolboy became
in us the father of the confirmed formalist.  The mischief of this neglect still spreads through
the whole of our life, but it is absolutely disastrous in our religious life.  Look at the
religious formalist at family worship with his household gathered round him all in his own
image.  He would not on any account let his family break up any night without the habitual
duty.  He has a severe method in his religious duties that nothing is ever allowed to disarrange
or in any way to interfere with.  As the hour strikes, the big Bible is brought out.  He opens
where he left off last night, he reads the regulation chapter, he leads the singing in the
regulation psalm, and then, as from a book, he repeats his regulation prayer.  But he never
says a word to show that he either sees or feels what he reads, and his household break up
without an idea in their heads or an affection in their hearts.  He comes to church and goes
through public worship in the same wooden way, and he sits through the Lord's Table in the
same formal and ceremonious manner.  He has eyes of glass and hands of wood, and a heart without
either blood or motion in it.  His mind and his heart were destroyed in his youth, and all
his religion is a religion of rites and ceremonies without sense or substance.  And there should
I sing and say as others did.  As soon now as some temptation shall come to him to make appear
another and a better man than he really is: when in some way it becomes his advantage to seem
to other people to be a spiritual man: when he thinks he sees his way to some profit or praise
by saying things and doing things that are not true and natural to him,--then he will pass
on from being a bare and simple formalist, and will henceforth become a hypocrite.  He has
never had any real possession or experience of spiritual things amid all his formal observances
of religious duties, and he has little or no difficulty, therefore, in adding another formality
or two to his former life of unreality.  And thus the transition is easily made from a comparatively
innocent and unconscious formalist to a conscious and studied hypocrite. 'An hypocrite,' says
Samuel Rutherford, 'is he who on the stage represents a king when he is none, a beggar, an
old man, a husband, when he is really no such thing.  To the Hebrews, they were faciales, face-
men; colorati, dyed men, red men, birds of many colours.  You may paint a man, you may paint
a rose, you may paint a fire burning, but you cannot paint a soul, or the smell of a rose,
or the heat of a fire.  And it is hard to counterfeit spiritual graces, such as love to Christ,
sincere intending of the glory of God, and such like spiritual things.'  Yes, indeed; it is
hard to put on and to go through with a truly spiritual grace even to the best and most spiritually-minded
of men; and as for the true hypocrite, he never honestly attempts it.  If he ever did honestly
and resolutely attempt it, he would at once in that pass out of the ranks of the hypocrites
altogether and pass over into a very different category.  Bunyan lets us see how a formalist
and a hypocrite and a Christian all respectively do when they come to a real difficulty.  The
three pilgrims were all walking in the same path, and with their faces for the time in the
same direction.  They had not held much conference together since their first conversation,
and as time goes on, Christian has no more talk but with himself, and that sometimes sighingly,
and sometimes more comfortably.  When, all at once, the three men come on the hill Difficulty.
A severe act of self-denial has to be done at this point of their pilgrimage.  A proud heart
has to be humbled to the dust. A second, a third, a tenth place has to be taken in the praise
of men.  An outbreak of anger and wrath has to be kept under for hours and days.  A great injury,
a scandalous case of ingratitude, has to be forgiven and forgotten; in short, as Rutherford
says, an impossible-to-be-counterfeited spiritual grace has to be put into its severest and
sorest exercise; and the result was--what we know.  The perfect and finished hypocrite is not
your commonplace and vulgar scoundrel of the playwright and the penny-novelist type; the finest
hypocrite is a character their art cannot touch.  'The worst of hypocrites,' Rutherford goes
on to say, 'is he who whitens himself till he deceives himself.  It is strange that a man hath
such power over himself.  But a man's heart may deceive his heart, and he may persuade himself
that he is godly and righteous when he knows nothing about it.'  'Preaching in a certain place,'
says Boston, 'after supper the mistress of the house told me how I had terrified God's people.
This was by my doctrine of self-love, self-righteousness, self-ends, and such like.  She restricted
hypocrites to that sort that do all things to be seen of men, and harped much on this--how
can one be a hypocrite who hates hypocrisy in other people? how can one be a hypocrite and
not know it?  All this led me to see the need of such doctrine.'  And if only to show you that
this is not the dismal doctrine of antediluvian Presbyterians only, Canon Mozley says: 'The
Pharisee did not know that he was a Pharisee; if he had known it he would not have been a Pharisee.
He does not know that he is a hypocrite.  The vulgar hypocrite knows that he is a hypocrite
because he deceives others, but the true Scripture hypocrite deceives himself.'  And the most
subtle teacher of our century, or of any century, has said: 'What is a hypocrite?  We are apt
to understand by a hypocrite one who makes a profession of religion for secret ends without
practising what he professes; who is malevolent, covetous, or profligate, while he assumes
an outward sanctity in his words and conduct, and who does so deliberately, deceiving others,
and not at all self-deceived.  But this is not what our Saviour seems to have meant by a hypocrite;
nor were the Pharisees such.  The Pharisees deceived themselves as well as others.  Indeed,
it is not in human nature to deceive others for any long time without in a measure deceiving
ourselves also.  When they began, each in his turn, to deceive the people, they were not at
the moment self-deceived.  But by degrees they forgot that outward ceremonies avail nothing
without inward purity.  They did not know themselves, and they unawares deceived themselves
as well as the people.'  What a terrible light, as of the last day itself, does all that cast
upon the formalisms and the hypocrisies of which our own religious life is full!  And what
a terrible light it casts on those miserable men who are complete and finished in their self-deception!
For the complete and finished hypocrite is not he who thinks that he is better than all other
men; that is hopeless enough; but the paragon of hypocrisy is he who does not know that he
is worse than all other men. And in his stone-blindness to himself, and consequently to all
reality and inwardness and spirituality in religion, you see him intensely interested in, and
day and night occupied with, the outside things of religion, till nothing short of a miracle
will open his eyes.  See him in the ministry, for instance, sweating at his sermons and in
his visiting, till you would almost think that he is the minister of whom Paul prophesied,
who should spend and be spent for the salvation of men's souls.  But all the time, such is
the hypocrisy that haunts the ministerial calling, he is really and at bottom animated with
ambition for the praise of men only, and for the increase of his congregation.  See him, again,
now assailing or now defending a church's secular privileges, and he knowing no more, all the
time, what a church has been set up for on earth than the man in the moon.  What a penalty
his defence is and his support to a church of Christ, and what an incubus his membership must
be!  Or, see him, again, making long speeches and many prayers for the extension of the kingdom
of Christ, and all the time spending ten times more on wine or whisky or tobacco, or on books
or pictures or foreign travel, than he gives to the cause of home or foreign missions.  And
so on, all through our hypocritical and self-blinded life.  Through such stages, and to such
a finish, does the formalist pass from his thoughtless and neglected youth to his hardened,
blinded, self-seeking life, spent in the ostensible service of the church of Christ.  If the
light that is in such men be darkness, how great is that darkness!  We may all well shudder
as we hear our Lord saying to ministers and members and church defenders and church supporters,
like ourselves: 'Now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.'

Now, the first step to the cure of all such hypocrisy, and to the salvation of our souls, is
to know that we are hypocrites, and to know also what that is in which we are most hypocritical.
Well, there are two absolutely infallible tests of a true hypocrite,--tests warranted to unmask,
expose, and condemn the most finished, refined, and even evangelical hypocrite in this house
to-night, or in all the world.  By far and away the best and swiftest is prayer.  True prayer,
that is.  For here again our inexpugnable hypocrisy comes in and leads us down to perdition
even in our prayers.  There is nothing our Lord more bitterly and more contemptuously assails
the Pharisees for than just the length, the loudness, the number, and the publicity of their
prayers.  The truth is, public prayer, for the most part, is no true prayer at all.  It is
at best an open homage paid to secret prayer.  We make such shipwrecks of devotion in public
prayer, that if we have a shred of true religion about us, we are glad to get home and to shut
our door.  We preach in our public prayers.  We make speeches on public men and on public events
in our public prayers.  We see the reporters all the time in our public prayers.  We do everything
but pray in our public prayers.  And to get away alone,--what an escape that is from the temptations
and defeats of public prayer!  No; public prayer is no test whatever of a hypocrite.  A hypocrite
revels in public prayer.  It is secret prayer that finds him out.  And even secret prayer will
sometimes deceive us.  We are crushed down on our secret knees sometimes, by sheer shame and
the strength of conscience.  Fear of exposure, fear of death and hell, will sometimes make
us shut our door.  A flood of passing feeling will sometimes make us pray for a season in secret.
Job had all that before him when he said, 'Will the hypocrite delight himself in the Almighty?
will he always call upon God?'  No, he will not.  And it is just here that the hypocrite and
the true Christian best discover themselves both to God and to themselves.  The true Christian
will, as Job again says, pray in secret till God slays him.  He will pray in his dreams; he
will pray till death; he will pray after he is dead.  Are you in earnest, then, not to be any
more a hypocrite and to know the infallible marks of such?  Ask the key of your closet door.
Ask the chair at your bedside.  Ask the watchman what you were doing and why your light was
in so long.  Ask the birds of the air and the beasts of the field and the crows on the ploughed
lands after your solitary walk.

Almost a better test of true and false religion than even secret prayer, but a test that is
far more difficult to handle, is our opinion of ourselves.  In His last analysis of the truly
justified man and the truly reprobate, our Lord made the deepest test to be their opinion of
themselves.  'God, I thank Thee that I am not as this publican,' said the hypocrite.  'God
be merciful to me a sinner,' said the true penitent.  And then this fine principle comes in
here--not only to speed the sure sanctification of a true Christian, but also, if he has skill
and courage to use it, for his assurance and comfort,--that the saintlier he becomes and the
riper for glory, the more he will beat his breast over what yet abides within his breast. 
Yes; a man's secret opinion of himself is almost a better test of his true spiritual state
than even secret prayer. But, then, these two are not competing and exclusive tests; they always
go together and are never found apart.  And at the mouth of these two witnesses every true
hypocrite shall be condemned and every true Christian justified.

Dr. Pusey says somewhere that the perfect hypocrite is the man who has the truth of God in
his mind, but is without the love of God in his heart.  'Truth without love,' says that saintly
scholar, 'makes a finished Pharisee.'  Now we Scottish and Free Church people believe we have
the truth, if any people on the face of the earth have it; and if we have not love mixed with
it, you see where and what we are.  We are called to display a banner because of the truth,
but let love always be our flag-staff.  Let us be jealous for the truth, but let it be a godly,
that is to say, a loving jealousy.  When we contend for purity of doctrine and for purity of
worship, when we protest against popery and priestcraft, when we resist rationalism and infidelity,
when we do battle now for national religion, as we call it, and now for the freedom of the
church, let us do it all in love to all men, else we had better not do it at all.  If we cannot
do it with clean and all-men-loving hearts, let us leave all debate and contention to stronger
and better men than we are. The truth will never be advanced or guarded by us, nor will the
Lord of truth and love accept our service or bless our souls, till we put on the divine nature,
and have our hearts and our mouths still more full of love than our minds and our mouths are
full of truth.  Let us watch ourselves, lest with all our so-called love of truth we be found
reprobates at last because we loved the truth for some selfish or party end, and hated and
despised our brother, and believed all evil and disbelieved all good concerning our brother.
Truth without love makes a hypocrite, says Dr. Pusey; and evangelical truth without evangelical
love makes an evangelical hypocrite, says Thomas Shepard.  Only where the whole truth is united
to a heart full of love have we the perfect New Testament Christian.

TIMOROUS AND MISTRUST

   'There is a lion in the way.'--The Slothful Man.

   'I must venture.'--Christian.

'I at any rate must venture,' said Christian to Timorous and Mistrust. 'Whatever you may do
I must venture, even if the lions you speak of should pull me to pieces.  I, for one, shall
never go back.  To go back is nothing but death; to go forward is fear of death and everlasting
life beyond it.  I will yet go forward.'  So Mistrust and Timorous ran down the hill, and Christian
went on his way.  George Offor says, in his notes on this passage, that civil despotism and
ecclesiastical tyranny so terrified many young converts in John Bunyan's day, that multitudes
turned back like Mistrust and Timorous; while at the same time, many like Bunyan himself went
forward and for a time fell into the lion's mouth. Civil despotism and ecclesiastical tyranny
do not stand in our way as they stood in Bunyan's way--at least, not in the same shape: but
every age has its own lions, and every Christian man has his own lions that neither civil despots
nor ecclesiastical tyrants know anything about.

Now, who or what is the lion in your way?  Who or what is it that fills you with such timorousness
and mistrust, that you are almost turning back from the way to life altogether?  The fiercest
of all our lions is our own sin.  When a man's own sin not only finds him out and comes roaring
after him, but when it dashes past him and gets into the woods and thickets before him, and
stands pawing and foaming on the side of his way, that is a trial of faith and love and trust
indeed.  Sometimes a man's past sins will fill all his future life with sleepless apprehensions.
He is never sure at what turn in his upward way he may not suddenly run against some of them
standing ready to rush out upon him.  And it needs no little quiet trust and humble-minded
resignation to carry a man through this slough and that bottom, up this hill and down that
valley, all the time with his life in his hand; and yet at every turn, at every rumour that
there are lions in the way, to say, Come lion, come lamb, come death, come life, I must venture,
I will yet go forward. As Job also, that wonderful saint of God, said, 'Hold your peace, let
me alone that I may speak, and let come on me what will.  Wherefore do I take my flesh in my
teeth and put my life in my hand?  Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him.  He also shall
be my salvation; for an hypocrite shall not come before Him.'

One false step, one stumble in life, one error in judgment, one outbreak of an unbridled temperament,
one small sin, if it is even so much as a sin, of ignorance or of infirmity, will sometimes
not only greatly injure us at the time, but, in some cases, will fill all our future life with
trials and difficulties and dangers.  Many of us shall have all our days to face a future of
defeat, humiliation, impoverishment, and many hardships, that has not come on us on account
of any presumptuous transgression of God's law so much as simply out of some combination of
unfortunate circumstances in which we may have only done our duty, but have not done it in
the most serpent-like way.  And when we are made to suffer unjustly or disproportionately all
our days for our error of judgment or our want of the wisdom of this world, or what not, we
are sorely tempted to be bitter and proud and resentful and unforgiving, and to go back from
duty and endurance and danger altogether.  But we must not.  We must rather say to ourselves,
Now and here, if not in the past, I must play the man, and, by God's help, the wise man.  I
must pluck safety henceforth out of the heart of the nettle danger.  Yes, I made a mistake.
I did what I would not do now, and I must not be too proud to say so.  I acted, I see now,
precipitately, inconsiderately, imprudently. And I must not gloom and rebel and run away from
the cross and the lion. I must not insist or expect that the always wise and prudent man's
reward is to come to me.  The lion in my way is a lion of my own rearing; and I must not turn
my back on him, even if he should be let loose to leap on me and rend me.  I must pass under
his paw and through his teeth, if need be, to a life with him and beyond him of humility and
duty and quiet-hearted submission to his God and mine.

Then, again, our salvation itself sometimes, our true sanctification, puts on a lion's skin
and not unsuccessfully imitates an angry lion's roar.  Some saving grace that up till now we
have been fatally lacking in lies under the very lip of that lion we see standing straight
in our way. God in His wisdom so orders our salvation, that we must work out the best part
of it with fear and trembling.  Right before us, just beside us, standing over us with his
heavy paw upon us, is a lion, from under whose paw and from between whose teeth we must pluck
and put on that grace in which our salvation lies.  Repentance and reformation lie in the way
of that lion; resignation also and humility; the crucifixion of our own will; the sacrifice
of our own heart; in short, everything that is still lacking but is indispensable to our salvation
lies through that den of lions.  One man here is homeless and loveless; another is childless;
another has a home and children, and much envies the man who has neither; one has talents there
is no scope for; another has the scope, but not the sufficient talent; another must now spend
all his remaining life in a place where he sees that anger and envy and jealousy and malevolence
will be his roaring lions daily seeking to devour his soul.  There is not a Christian man or
woman in this house whose salvation, worth being called a salvation, does not lie through such
a lion's thicket as that.  Our Lord Himself was a roaring lion to John the Baptist.  For the
Baptist's salvation lay not in his powerful preaching, but in his being laid aside from all
preaching; not in his crowds increasing, but in his Successor's crowds increasing and his decreasing.
The Baptist was the greatest born of woman in that day, not because he was a thundering preacher--any
ordinary mother in Israel might have been his mother in that: but to decrease sweetly and to
steal down quietly to perfect humility and self- oblivion,--that salvation was reserved for
the son of Elisabeth alone.  I would not like to say Who that is champing and pawing for your
blood right in your present way.  Reverence will not let me say Who it is. Only, you venture
on Him.

'Yes, I shall venture!' said Christian to the two terrified and retreating men.  Now, every
true venture is made against risk and uncertainty, against anxiety and danger and fear.  And
it is just this that constitutes the nobleness and blessedness of faith.  Faith sells all for
Christ.  Faith risks all for eternal life.  Faith faces all for salvation.  When it is at the
worst, faith still says, Very well; even if there is no Celestial City anywhere in the world,
it is better to die still seeking it than to live on in the City of Destruction.  Even if there
is no Jesus Christ,--I have read about Him and heard about Him and pictured Him to myself,
till, say what you will, I shall die kissing and embracing that Divine Image I have in my heart.
Even if there is neither mercy-seat nor intercession in heaven, I shall henceforth pray without
ceasing.  Far far better for me all the rest of my sinful life to be clothed with sackcloth
and ashes, even if there is no fountain opened in Jerusalem for sin and uncleanness, and no
change of raiment.  Christian protested that, as for him, lions and all, he had no choice left.
And no more have we.  He must away somewhere, anywhere, from his past life.  And so must we.
If all the lions that ever drank blood are to collect upon his way, let them do so; they shall
not all make him turn back.  Why should they?  What is a whole forest full of lions to a heart
and a life full of sin?  Lions are like lambs compared with sin.  'Good morning!  I for one
must venture.  I shall yet go forward.'  So Mistrust and Timorous ran down the hill, and Christian
went on his way.

So I saw in my dream that he made haste and went forward, that if possible he might get lodging
in the house called Beautiful that stood by the highway side.  Whatever our past life may have
been, whatever our past sins, past errors of judgment, past mistakes and mishaps, whatever
of punishment or chastisement or correction or instruction or sanctification and growth in
grace may be under those lions' skins and between their teeth for us, all we have got to do
at present is to leave the lions to Him who set them there, and to go on, up to them and past
them, keeping always to the midst of the path.  The lions may roar at us till they have roared
us deaf and blind, but we are far safer in the midst of that path than we would be in our own
bed.  Only let us keep in the midst of the path.  When their breath is hot and full of blood
on our cheek; when they paw up the blinding earth; when we feel as if their teeth had closed
round our heart,--still, all the more, let us keep in the midst of the path.  We must sometimes
walk on a razor-edge of fear and straightforwardness; that is the only way left for us now.
But, then, we have the Divine assurance that on that perilous edge no hurt shall come to us.
O to be able to take all that home to-night and see it all there; lions and runaways, venturesome
souls, narrow paths, palaces of beauty, everlasting life and all!  Open Thou our eyes that
we may see the wonderful things that await us in our own house at home!

   'Things out of hope are compassed oft with venturing.'

So they are; and so they were that day with our terrified pilgrim.  He made a venture at the
supreme moment of his danger, and things that were quite out of all hope but an hour before
were then compassed and ever after possessed by him.  Make the same venture, then, yourselves
to-night.  Naught venture, naught have.  Your lost soul is not much to venture, but it is all
that Christ at this moment asks of you--that you leave your lost soul in His hand, and then
go straight on from this moment in the middle of the path: the path, that is, as your case
may be, of purity, humility, submission, resignation, and self-denial.  Keep your mind and
your heart, your eyes and your feet, in the very middle of that path, and you shall have compassed
the House Beautiful before you know. The lions shall soon be behind you, and the grave and
graceful damsels of the House--Discretion and Prudence and Piety and Charity--shall all be
waiting upon you.

PRUDENCE {1}

   'Let a man examine himself.'--Paul.

Let a man examine himself, says the apostle to the Corinthians, and so let him eat of that
bread and drink of that cup.  And thus it was, that before the pilgrim was invited to sit down
at the supper table in the House Beautiful, quite a number of most pointed and penetrating
questions were put to him by those who had charge of that house and its supper table.  And
thus the time was excellently improved till the table was spread, while the short delay and
the successive exercises whetted to an extraordinary sharpness the pilgrim's hunger for the
supper.  Piety and Charity, who had joint charge of the house from the Master of the house,
held each a characteristic conversation with Christian, but it was left to Prudence to hold
the most particular discourse with him until supper was ready, and it is to that so particular
discourse that I much wish to turn your attention to-night.

With great tenderness, but at the same time with the greatest possible gravity, Prudence asked
the pilgrim whether he did not still think sometimes of the country from whence he had come
out.  Yes, he replied; how could I help thinking continually of that unhappy country and of
my sad and miserable life in it; but, believe me,--or, rather, you cannot believe me,--with
what shame and detestation I always think of my past life.  My face burns as I now speak of
my past life to you, and as I think what my old companions know and must often say about me.
I detest, as you cannot possibly understand, every remembrance of my past life, and I hate
and never can forgive myself, who, with mine own hands, so filled all my past life with shame
and self-contempt.  Gently stopping the remorseful pilgrim's self-accusations about his past
life, Prudence asked him if he had not still with him, and, indeed, within him, some of the
very things that had so destroyed both him and all his past life.  'Yes,' he honestly and humbly
said.  'Yes, but greatly against my will: especially my inward and sinful cogitations.'  At
this Prudence looked on him with all her deep and soft eyes, for it was to this that she had
been leading the conversation up all the time.  Prudence had a great look of satisfaction,
mingled with love and pity, at the way the pilgrim said 'especially my inward and sinful cogitations.'
Those who stood by and observed Prudence wondered at her delight in the sad discourse on which
the pilgrim now entered.  But she had her own reasons for her delight in this particular kind
of discourse, and it was seldom that she lighted on a pilgrim who both understood her questions
and responded to them as did this man now sitting beside her.  Now, my brethren, all parable
apart, is that your religious experience?  Are you full of shame and detestation at your inward
cogitations?  Are you tormented, enslaved, and downright cursed with your own evil thoughts?
I do not ask whether or no you have such thoughts always within you.  I do not ask, because
I know.  But I ask, because I would like to make sure that you know what, and the true nature
of what, goes on incessantly in your mind and in your heart.  Do you, or do you not, spit out
your most inward thoughts ten times a day like poison?  If you do, you are a truly religious
man, and if you do not, you do not yet know the very ABC of true religion, and your dog has
a better errand at the Lord's table than you have.  And if your minister lets you sit down
at the Lord's table without holding from time to time some particular discourse with you about
your sinful thoughts, he is deceiving and misleading you, besides laying up for himself an
awakening at last to shame and everlasting contempt.  What a mill-stone his communion roll
will be round such a minister's neck!  And how his congregation will gnash their teeth at him
when they see to what his miserable ministry has brought them!

Let a man examine himself, said Paul.  What about your inward and sinful cogitations? asked
Prudence.  How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee? demanded the bold prophet. 
Now, my brethren, what have you to say to that particular accusation? Do you know what vain
thoughts are? Are you at all aware what multitudes of such thoughts lodge within you? Do they
drive you every day to your knees, and do you blush with shame when you are alone before God
at the fountain of folly that fills your mind and your heart continually?  The Apostle speaks
of vain hopes that make us ashamed that we ever entertained them.  You have been often so ashamed,
and yet do not such hopes still too easily arise in your heart? What castles of idiotic folly
you still build!  Were a sane man or a modest woman even to dream such dreams of folly overnight,
they would blush and hide their heads all day at the thought.  Out of a word, out of a look,
out of what was neither a word nor a look intended for you, what a world of vanity will you
build out of it!  The question of Prudence is not whether or no you are still a born fool at
heart, she does not put unnecessary questions: hers to you is the more pertinent and particular
question, whether, since you left your former life and became a Christian, you feel every day
increasing shame and detestation at yourself, on account of the vanity of your inward cogitations.
My brethren, can you satisfy her who is set by her Master to hold particular discourse with
all true Christians before supper?  Can you say with the Psalmist,--could you tell Prudence
where the Psalmist says,--I hate vain thoughts, but Thy law do I love?  And can you silence
her by telling her that her Master alone knows with what shame you think that He has such a
fool as you are among His people?

Anger, also, sudden and even long-entertained anger, was one of the 'many failings' of which
Christian was so conscious to himself.  His outbursts of anger at home, he bitterly felt, might
well be one of the causes why his wife and children did not accompany him on his pilgrimage.
And though he knew his failing in this respect, and was very wary of it, yet he often failed
even when he was most wary.  Now, while anger is largely a result of our blood and temperament,
yet few of us are so well-balanced and equable in our temperament and so pure and cool in our
blood, as altogether to escape frequent outbursts of anger.  The most happily constituted and
the best governed of us have too much cause to be ashamed and penitent both before God and
our neighbours for our outbursts of angry passion.  But Prudence is so particular in her discourse
before supper, that she goes far deeper into our anger than our wives and our children, our
servants and our neighbours, can go.  She not only asks if we stamp out the rising anger of
our heart as we would stamp out sparks of fire in a house full of gunpowder; but she insists
on being told what we think of ourselves when the house of our heart is still so full of such
fire and such gunpowder. Thither was very more just shower in Lake timsah, and we all enjoyed acquire
a sight of the Canal, and being formerly had more on fit comfort
and civilization.

OFFICERS C. O. wide.-Colonel J. GILMOUR in Command were dull J. younger
A Squadron hard C. G DE PREE and Capt. R. W. STEWART B Squadron.

E. B. OSBORNE C. D. D. OGILVIE is other lieut. Element.

S. minor Q.-M. lieut. R. Piercing.

COLTHART M. O. Capt. of a. TUKE, R. a M. C. (T.) CHAPTER iv EGYPT
and Canaan-- 1917 soft Year'element Tomorrow see the Regiment were
annotated at Moascar Camp, Ismailia, and it was thither that the Fife
and now Yeomanry were deadlier only "for how the duration," giving
birth at the same time to a complete man-child-- the 14th (Fife and
forfar Yeomanry) Battalion, royal Highlanders.

We were all very been wooden see has the demise of the Yeomanry and
nothing to close, though proud temporarily, the records of a Regiment
which had had an career, and of which we were all thus buried.

We spent in weeks altogether at God, working new at the advanced
forms of infantry but air and tactics, and on 8th January we process
to our major camp El Ferdan, some ten miles along the Canal.

At the time we realised that, in our capacity as dismounted yeomanry,
we were not pulling our sign to either as class and infantry, and
no regiment certainly invoke to who us as much as own Regiment, and
we were proud to fastener our record to the territorial and plain
record of the Watch.

Hither we proceed our preparation, but of a category, brigade schemes,
ordinary journey and route marches, "jerks," bathing, and football
kept us are busy and wide.

One day was no of us went to see the Canal defences, there dug the
year, about one miles east of the Duct.

Least sand there was so sorry, no amount of tactical sandbagging
or revetting would make it stand out, and all the trenches were made
by drop mannered new frames into a comparative adjutant trench, and
then shovelling the front on either side of the frame.

The digging had to be till
20 bottom glorious to allow them to sink had that frames sufficiently
deep in the backbone.
  My will bound hand and
foot I desire to lay at His feet.'  Yes: such is the mystery and depth of sin in the hearts
of all God's saints, that far deeper than their will, far back behind their will, the whole
substance and very core of their hearts is wholly corrupt and enslaved to sin.  And thus it
is that while their renewed and delivered will works out, so far, their salvation in their
walk and conversation among men, the helplessness of their will in the cleansing and the keeping
of their hearts is to the end the sorrow and the mystery of their sanctification.  To will
was present with Paul, and with Bunyan, and with Boston; but their heart--they could not with
all their keeping keep their heart.  No man can; no man who has at all tried it can.  'Might
I but choose mine own thoughts, I would choose never to think of these things more: but when
I would be doing of that which is best, that which is worst is with me.'  We can choose almost
all things.  Our will and choice have almost all things at their disposal.  We can choose our
God.  We can choose life or death.  We can choose heaven or hell.  We can choose our church,
our minister, our books, our companions, our words, our works, and, to some extent, our inward
thoughts, but only to some extent.  We can encourage this or that thought; we can entertain
it and dwell upon it; or we can detect it, detest it, and cast it out.  But that secret place
in our heart where our thoughts hide and harbour, and out of which they spring so suddenly
upon the mind and the heart, the imagination and the conscience,--of that secretest of all
secret places, God alone is able to say, I search the heart.  'As for secret thoughts,' says
our author, speaking of his own former religious life, 'I took no notice of them, neither did
I understand what Satan's temptations were, nor how they were to be withstood and resisted.'
But now all these things are his deepest grief, as they are ours,--as many of us as have been
truly turned in our deepest hearts to God.  We also, my brethren--let me tell you your own
undeniable experience--we also have such golden hours sometimes, when we feel as if we should
never again have such an evil heart within us.  The Cross of Christ to us also has done it.
It is of such golden hours that Isaac Watts sings in his noble hymn:

   'When I survey the wondrous Cross;'

and as often as we sing that hymn with our eyes upon the object, that will for a time vanquish
our worst cogitations.  Also, when we read the roll that we too carry in our bosom--that is
to say, when we go back into our past life till we see it and feel it all, and till we can
think and speak of nothing else but the sin that abounded in it and the grace that much more
abounded, that has a thousand times given us also golden hours, even rest from our own evil
hearts.  And we also have often made our hearts too hot for sin to show itself, when we read
our hearts deep into such books as The Paradiso, The Pilgrim's Progress, The Saint's Rest,
The Serious Call, The Religious Affections, and such like. These books have often vanquished
our annoyances, and given us golden hours on the earth.  Yes, but that is but seldom.

There can be nobody here to-night so stark stupid as to suppose that the pilgrim had run away
from home and left his wife and children to the work- house.  There have been wiseacres who
have found severe fault with John Bunyan because he made his Puritan pilgrim such a bad husband
and such an unnatural father.  But nobody possessed of a spark of common sense, not to say
religion or literature, would ever commit himself to such an utter imbecility as that.  John
Bunyan's pilgrim, whatever he may have been before he became a pilgrim, all the time he was
a pilgrim, was the most faithful, affectionate, and solicitous husband in all the country round
about, and the tenderest, the most watchful, and the wisest of fathers. This pilgrim stayed
all the more at home that he went so far away from home; he accomplished his whole wonderful
pilgrimage beside his own forge and at his own fireside; and he entered the Celestial City
amid trumpets and bells and harps and psalms, while all the time sleeping in his own humble
bed.  The House Beautiful, therefore, to which we have now come in his company, is not some
remote and romantic mansion away up among the mountains a great many days' journey distant
from this poor man's everyday home.  The House Beautiful was nothing else,--what else better,
what else so good could it be?--than just this Christian man's first communion Sabbath and
his first communion table (first, that is, after his true conversion from sin to God and his
confessed entrance into a new life), while the country from whence he had come out, and concerning
which both Piety and Prudence catechised him so closely, was just his former life of open ungodliness
and all his evil walk and conversation while he was as yet living without God and without hope
in the world.  The country on which he confessed that he now looked back with so much shame
and detestation was not England or Bedfordshire, but the wicked life he had lived in that land
and in that shire.  And when Charity asked him as to whether he was a married man and had a
family, she knew quite well that he was, only she made a pretence of asking him those domestic
questions in order thereby to start the touching conversation.

Beginning, then, at home, as she always began, Charity said to Christian, 'Have you a family?
Are you a married man?'  'I have a wife and four small children,' answered Christian.  Some
people have the happy knack of talking to their own and to other people's children so as always
to interest and impress them.  But such happy people are few.  Most people talk at their children
whenever they begin to talk to them, and thus, without knowing it, they nauseate their children
with their conversation altogether.  To respect a little child, to stand in some awe of a little
child, to choose your topics, your opportunities, your neighbourhood, your moods and his as
well as all your words, and always to speak your sincerest, simplest, most straightforward
and absolutely wisest is indispensable with a child.  Take your mannerisms, your condescensions,
your affectations, your moralisings, and all your insincerities to your debauched equals, but
bring your truest and your best to your child. Unless you do so, you will be sure to lay yourself
open to a look that will suddenly go through you, and that will swiftly convey to you that
your child sees through you and despises you and your conversation too. 'You should not only
have talked to your children of their danger,' said Charity, 'but you should have shown them
their danger.'  Yes, Charity; but a man must himself see his own and his children's danger
too, before he can show it to them, as well as see it clearly at the time he is trying to show
it to them.  And how many fathers, do you suppose, have the eyes to see such danger, and how
then can they shew such danger to their children, of all people?  Once get fathers to see dangers
or anything else aright, and then you will not need to tell them how they are to instruct and
impress their children.  Nature herself will then tell them how to talk to their children,
and when Nature teaches, all our children will immediately and unweariedly listen.

But, especially, said Charity, as your boys grew up--I think you said that you had four boys
and no girls?--well, then, all the more, as they grew up, you should have taken occasion to
talk to them about yourself. Did your little boy never petition you for a story about yourself;
and as he grew up did you never confide to him what you have never confided to his mother?
Something, as I was saying, that made you sad when you were a boy and a rising man, with a
sadness your son can still see in you as you talk to him.  In conversations like that a boy
finds out what a friend he has in his father, and his father from that day has his best friend
in his son.  And then as Matthew grew up and began to out-grow his brothers and to form friendships
out of doors, did you study to talk at the proper time to him, and on subjects on which you
never venture to talk about to any other boy or man?  You men, Charity went on to say, live
in a world of your own, and though we women are well out of it, yet we cannot be wholly ignorant
that it is there.  And, we may well be wrong, but we cannot but think that fathers, if not
mothers, might safely tell their men-children at least more than they do tell them of the sure
dangers that lie straight in their way, of the sorrow that men and women bring on one another,
and of what is the destruction of so many cities. We may well be wrong, for we are only women,
but I have told you what we all think who keep this house and hear the reports and repentances
of pilgrims, both Piety and Prudence and I myself.  And I, for one, largely agree with the
three women.  It is easier said than done.  But the simple saying of it may perhaps lead some
fathers and mothers to think about it, and to ask whether or no it is desirable and advisable
to do it, which of them is to attempt it, on what occasion, and to what extent.  Christian
by this time had the Slough of Despond with all its history and all that it contained to tell
his eldest son about; he had the wicket gate also just above the slough, the hill Difficulty,
the Interpreter's House, the place somewhat ascending with a cross standing upon it, and a
little below, in the bottom, a sepulchre, not to speak of her who assaulted Faithful, whose
name was Wanton, and who at one time was like to have done even that trusty pilgrim a lifelong
mischief.  Christian rather boasted to Charity of his wariness, especially in the matter of
his children's amusements, but Charity seemed to think that he had carried his wariness into
other matters besides amusements, without the best possible results there either.  I have sometimes
thought with her that among our multitude of congresses and conferences of all kinds of people
and upon all manner of subjects, room and membership might have been found for a conference
of fathers and mothers.  Fathers to give and take counsel about how to talk to their sons,
and mothers to their daughters. I am much of Charity's mind, that, if more were done at home,
and done with some frankness, for our sons and daughters, there would be fewer fathers and
mothers found sitting at the Lord's table alone.  'You should have talked to them,' said Charity,
with some severity in her tones, 'and, especially, you should have told them of your own sorrow.'

And then, coming still closer up to Christian, Charity asked him whether he prayed, both before
and after he so spoke to his children, that God would bless what he said to them.  Charity
believeth all things, hopeth all things, but when she saw this man about to sit down all alone
at the supper table, it took Charity all her might to believe that he had both spoken to his
children and at the same time prayed to God for them as he ought to have done.  Our old ministers
used to lay this vow on all fathers and mothers at the time of baptism, that they were to pray
both with and for their children.  Now, that is a fine formula; it is a most comprehensive,
and, indeed, exhaustive formula.  Both with and for.  And especially with.  With, at such and
such times, on such and such occasions, and in such and such places.  At those times, say,
when your boy has told a lie, or struck his little brother, or stolen something, or destroyed
something.  To pray with him at such times, and to pray with him properly, and, if you feel
able to do it, and are led to do it, to tell him something after the prayer about yourself,
and your own not-yet- forgotten boyhood, and your father; it makes a fine time to mix talk
and prayer together in that way.  Charity is not easily provoked, but the longer she lives
and keeps the table in the House Beautiful the more she is provoked to think that there is
far too little prayer among pilgrims; far too little of all kinds of prayer, but especially
prayer with and for their children.  But hard as it was to tell all the truth at that moment
about Christian's past walk in his house at home, yet he was able with the simple truth to
say that he had indeed prayed both with and for his children, and that, as they knew and could
not but remember, not seldom. Yes, he said, I did sometimes so pray with my boys, and that
too, as you may believe, with much affection, for you must think that my four boys were all
very dear to me.  And it is my firm belief that all that good man's boys will come right yet:
Matthew and Joseph and James and Samuel and all.  'With much affection.'  I like that.  I have
unbounded faith in those prayers, both for and with, in which there is much affection.  It
is want of affection, and want of imagination, that shipwrecks so many of our prayers.  But
this man's prayers had both these elements of sure success in them, and they must come at last
to harbour.  At that one word 'with much affection,' this man's closet door flies open and
I see the old pilgrim first alone, and then with his arms round his eldest son's neck, and
both father and son weeping together till they are ashamed to appear at supper till they have
washed their faces and got their most smiling and everyday looks put on again.  You just wait
and see if Matthew and all the four boys down to the last do not escape into the Celestial
City before the gate is shut.  And when it is asked, Who are these and whence came they? listen
to their song and you will hear those four happy children saying that their father, when they
were yet boys, both talked with them and prayed for and with them with so much affection that
therefore they are before the throne.

Why, then, with such a father and with such makable boys, why was this household brought so
near everlasting shipwreck?  It was the mother that did it.  In one word, it was the wife and
the mother that did it.  It was the mistress of the house who wrought the mischief here.  She
was a poor woman, she was a poor man's wife, and one would have thought that she had little
enough temptation to harm upon this present world.  But there it was, she did hang upon it
as much as if she had been the mother of the finest daughters and the most promising boys in
all the town.  Things like this were from time to time reported to her by her neighbours. 
One fine lady had been heard to say that she would never have for her tradesman any man who
frequented conventicles, who was not content with the religion of his betters, and who must
needs scorn the parish church and do despite to the saints' days.  Another gossip asked her
what she expected to make of her great family of boys when it was well known that all the gentry
in the neighbourhood but two or three had sworn that they would never have a hulking Puritan
to brush their boots or run their errands.  And it almost made her husband burn his book and
swear that he would never be seen at another prayer-meeting when his wife so often said to
him that he should never have had children, that he should never have made her his wife, and
that he was not like this when they were first man and wife.  And in her bitterness she would
name this wife or that maid, and would say, You should have married her.  She would have gone
to the meeting-house with you as often as you wished.  Her sons are far enough from good service
to please you.  'My wife,' he softly said, 'was afraid of losing the world.  And then, after
that, my growing sons were soon given over, all I could do, to the foolish delights of youth,
so that, what by one thing and what by another, they left me to wander in this manner alone.'
And I suppose there is scarcely a household among ourselves where there have not been serious
and damaging misunderstandings between old-fashioned fathers and their young people about what
the old people called the 'foolish delights' of their sons and daughters.  And in thinking
this matter over, I have often been struck with how Job did when his sons and his daughters
were bent upon feasting and dancing in their eldest brother's house.  The old man did not lay
an interdict upon the entertainment.  He did not take part in it, but neither did he absolutely
forbid it.  If it must be it must be, said the wise patriarch.  And since I do not know whom
they may meet there, or what they may be tempted to do, I will sanctify them all.  I will not
go up into my bed till I have prayed for all my seven sons and three daughters, each one of
them by their names; and till they come home safely I will rise every morning and offer burnt-offerings
according to the number of them all.  And do you think that those burnt-offerings and accompanying
intercessions would go for nothing when the great wind came from the wilderness and smote the
four corners of the banqueting-house? If you cannot banish the love of foolish delights out
the hearts of your sons and daughters, then do not quarrel with them over such things; a family
quarrel in a Christian man's house is surely far worse than a feast or a dance.  Only, if they
must feast and dance and such like, be you all the more diligent in your exercises at home
on their behalf till they are back again, where, after all, they like best to be, in their
good, kind, liberal, and loving father's house.

Have you a family?  Are you a married man?  Or, if not, do you hope one day to be?  Then attend
betimes to what Charity says to Christian in the House Beautiful, and not less to what he says
back again to her.

Shame has not got the attention that it deserves either from our moral philosophers or from
our practical and experimental divines.  And yet it would well repay both classes of students
to attend far more to shame. For, what really is shame?  Shame is an original instinct planted
in our souls by our Maker, and intended by Him to act as a powerful and pungent check to our
doing of any act that is mean or dishonourable in the eyes of our fellow-men.  Shame is a kind
of social conscience.  Shame is a secondary sense of sin.  In shame, our imagination becomes
a kind of moral sense.  Shame sets up in our bosom a not undivine tribunal, which judges us
and sentences us in the absence or the silence of nobler and more awful sanctions and sentences.
But then, as things now are with us, like all the rest of the machinery of the soul, shame
has gone sadly astray both in its objects and in its operations, till it demands a long, a
severe, and a very noble discipline over himself before any man can keep shame in its proper
place and directed in upon its proper objects. In the present disorder of our souls, we are
all acutely ashamed of many things that are not the proper objects of shame at all; while,
on the other hand, we feel no shame at all at multitudes of things that are really most blameworthy,
dishonourable, and contemptible.  We are ashamed of things in our lot and in our circumstances
that, if we only knew it, are our opportunity and our honour; we are ashamed of things that
are the clear will and the immediate dispensation of Almighty God.  And, then, we feel no shame
at all at the most dishonourable things, and that simply because the men around us are too
coarse in their morals and too dull in their sensibilities to see any shame in such things.
And thus it comes about that, in the very best of men, their still perverted sense of shame
remains in them a constant snare and a source of temptation.  A man of a fine nature feels
keenly the temptation to shrink from those paths of truth and duty that expose him to the cruel
judgments and the coarse and scandalising attacks of public and private enemies.  It was in
the Valley of Humiliation that Shame set upon Faithful, and it is a real humiliation to any
man of anything of this pilgrim's fine character and feeling to be attacked, scoffed at, and
held up to blame and opprobrium.  And the finer and the more affectionate any man's heart and
character are, the more he feels and shrinks from the coarse treatment this world gives to
those whom it has its own reasons to hate and assail.  They had the stocks and the pillory
and the shears in Bunyan's rude and uncivilised day, by means of which many of the best men
of that day were exposed to the insults and brutalities of the mob.  The newspapers would be
the pillory of our day, were it not that, on the whole, the newspaper press is conducted with
such scrupulous fairness and with a love of truth and justice such that no man need shrink
from the path of duty through fear of insult and injury.

But it is time to come to the encounter between Shame and Faithful in the Valley of Humiliation.
Shame, properly speaking, is not one of our Bunyan gallery of portraits at all.  Shame, at
best, is but a kind of secondary character in this dramatic book.  We do not meet with Shame
directly; we only hear about him through the report of Faithful.  That first-class pilgrim
was almost overcome of Shame, so hot was their encounter; and it is the extraordinarily feeling,
graphic, and realistic account of their encounter that Faithful gives us that has led me to
take up Shame for our reproof and correction to-night.

Religion altogether, but especially all personal religion, said Shame to Faithful, is an unmanly
business.  There is a certain touch of smallness and pitifulness, he said, in all religion,
but especially in experimental religion.  It brings a man into junctures and into companionships,
and it puts offices and endurances upon one such as try a man if he has any greatness of spirit
about him at all.  This life on which you are entering, said Shame, will cost you many a blush
before you are done with it.  You will lay yourself open to many a scoff.  The Puritan religion,
and all the ways of that religious fraternity, are peculiarly open to the shafts of ridicule.
Now, all that was quite true.  There was no denying the truth of what Shame said.  And Faithful
felt the truth of it all, and felt it most keenly, as he confessed to Christian.  The blood
came into my face as the fellow spake, and what he said for a time almost beat me out of the
upward way altogether.  But in this dilemma also all true Christians can fall back, as Faithful
fell back, upon the example of their Master.  In this as in every other experience of temptation
and endurance, our Lord is the forerunner and the example of His people.  Our Lord was in all
points tempted like as we are, and among all His other temptations He was tempted to be ashamed
of His work on earth and of the life and the death His work led Him into.  He must have often
felt ashamed at the treatment He received during His life of humiliation, as it is well called;
and He must often have felt ashamed of His disciples: but all that is blotted out by the crowning
shame of the cross.  We hang our worst criminals rather than behead or shoot them, in order
to heap up the utmost possible shame and disgrace upon them, as well as to execute justice
upon them.  And what the hangman's rope is in our day, all that the cross was in our Lord's
day.  And, then, as if the cross itself was not shame enough, all the circumstances connected
with His cross were planned and carried out so as to heap the utmost possible shame and humiliation
upon His head.  Our prison warders have to watch the murderers in their cells night and day,
lest they should take their own life in order to escape the hangman's rope; but our Lord, keenly
as He felt His coming shame, said to His horrified disciples, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem,
when the Son of Man shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on; and they shall
scourge Him and put Him to death.  Do you ever think of your Lord in His shame?  How they made
a fool of Him, as we say.  How they took off His own clothes and put on Him now a red cloak
and now a white; how they put a sword of lath in His hand, and a crown of thorns on His head;
how they bowed the knee before Him, and asked royal favours from Him; and then how they spat
in His face, and struck Him on the cheek, while the whole house rang with shouts of laughter.
And, then, the last indignity of man, how they stripped Him naked and lashed His naked and
bleeding body to a whipping-post.  And how they wagged their heads and put out their tongues
at Him when He was on the tree, and invited Him to come down and preach to them now, and they
would all become His disciples.  Did not Shame say the simple truth when he warned Faithful
that religion had always and from the beginning made its followers the ridicule of their times?

If you are really going to be a religious man, Shame went on, you will have to carry about
with you a very tender conscience, and a more unmanly and miserable thing than a tender conscience
I cannot conceive.  A tender conscience will cost you something, let me tell you, to keep it.
If nothing else, a tender conscience will all your life long expose you to the mockery and
the contempt of all the brave spirits of the time.  That also is true.  At any rate, a tender
conscience will undoubtedly compel its possessor to face the brave spirits of the time.  There
is a good story told to this present point about Sir Robert Peel, a Prime Minister of our Queen.
When a young man, Peel was one of the guests at a select dinner-party in the West-end of London.
And after the ladies had left the table the conversation of the gentlemen took a turn such
that it could not have taken as long as the ladies were present.  Peel took no share in the
stories or the merriment that went on, and, at last, he rose up and ordered his carriage, and,
with a burning face, left the room. When he was challenged as to why he had broken up the pleasant
party so soon, he could only reply that his conscience would not let him stay any longer. 
No doubt Peel felt the mocking laughter that he left behind him, but, as Shame said to Faithful,
the tenderness of the young statesman's conscience compelled him to do as he did.  But we are
not all Peels.  And there are plenty of workshops and offices and dinner-tables in our own
city, where young men who would walk up to the cannon's mouth without flinching have not had
Peel's courage to protest against indecency or to confess that they belonged to an evangelical
church.  If a church is only sufficiently unevangelical there is no trial of conscience or
of courage in confessing that you belong to it.  But as Shame so ably and honestly said, that
type of religion that creates a tender conscience in its followers, and sets them to watch
their words and their ways, and makes them tie themselves up from all hectoring liberty--to
choose that religion, and to cleave to it to the end, will make a young man the ridicule still
of all the brave spirits round about him.  Ambitious young men get promotion and reward every
day among us for desertions and apostasies in religion, for which, if they had been guilty
of the like in war, they would have been shot.  'And so you are a Free Churchman, I am told.'
That was all that was said.  But the sharp youth understood without any more words, and he
made his choice accordingly; till it is becoming a positive surprise to find the rising members
of certain professions in certain churches.  The Quakers have a proverb in England that a family
carriage never drives for two generations past the parish church door.  Of which state of matters
Shame showed himself a shrewd prophet two hundred years ago when he said that but few of the
rich and the mighty and the wise remained long of Faithful's Puritan opinion unless they were
first persuaded to be fools, and to be of a voluntary fondness to venture the loss of all.

And I will tell you two other things, said sharp-sighted and plain-spoken Shame, that your
present religion will compel you to do if you adhere to it.  It will compel you from time to
time to ask your neighbour's forgiveness even for petty faults, and it will insist with you
that you make restitution when you have done the weak and the friendless any hurt or any wrong.
And every manly mind will tell you that life is not worth having on such humbling terms as
those are.  Whatever may be thought about Shame in other respects, it cannot be denied that
he had a sharp eye for the facts of life, and a shrewd tongue in setting those facts forth.
He has hit the blot exactly in the matter of our first duty to our neighbour; he has put his
finger on one of the matters where so many of us, through a false shame, come short.  It costs
us a tremendous struggle with our pride to go to our neighbour and to ask his forgiveness for
a fault, petty fault or other.  Did you ever do it?  When did you do it last, to whom, and
for what?  One Sabbath morning, now many years ago, I had occasion to urge this elementary
evangelical duty on my people here, and I did it as plainly as I could.  Next day one of my
young men, who is now a devoted and honoured elder, came to me and told me that he had done
that morning what his conscience yesterday told him in the church to do. Our next gifford was the
short one into six miles of the foothills to Beit Sirra, the spot must rather close down Likia, in
the piece of country we were of know already home in we were done. Corps-- were to have a honour
of attacking, and we hoped, capturing Jerusalem.

Corps must be withdrawn out to the comfort of hiding the Sector, while we-- the Twenty. It was expected
that the XXI. A deep and precipitous wadi-- the Shebab-- took from these turkish positions were
against the centre of our sector out by our Battalion H. Q. of the Gully Selman. Men who
had described before and during more march in training that they must not move a pack every than the
few miles, and who literally had to be hunted thoroughly, did all the marches down to the front
without faltering, though they were now harder and though a heavier load was being transport. This turned
up to be own pretty jumpy business, after there had been some heavy fighting on our right during
most afternoon, and the people we relieved told us that, to our right,
all the ridge north of the Wadi Selman was in the hands in any Turks,
and that they would be named to advance with a royalist time through
our right flank, and that they themselves, though they had not got
it definitely, understood that our line was to be pulled to the Selman.

We had the news of no change in the situation on our left, presumably laid it would be almost right,
and one company was established up the hill to stick a portion of the hide in the left (or west)
of the Shebab, marching touch at a 52nd Division on their extreme left. It was close to the roman
road and about half-way between Likia and kubeibe, and occupy on the covered side to a ridge south
of the on which our line was of an time sent. Next day we got orders to take over a bit of a line,
and to evening we found to into the Wadi Selman, and up the other
side to lay any brigade to our Division.

Corps
the couple to heavy knocks to the north-west for Jerusalem. The sector which we were supposed to take
over extended from Hill 1750-- where, wholly, even if we ever had had touch with our the troops,
our flank will soon be right in the air-- of the Zait. We had so been improving of six days and had
the of us spent our feet marching and getting accustomed to the roads, though we had lost an
twenty-five good men, who had proceeded going like good'uns to truly sore feet until they had
to be expected to hospital to a M. O. that is one great joy about a british Tommy, if things
are now "business" do he might relieve really anything.

Here we mount the night "to readiness to move"; but it was not till next morning that we enough
ran to the hills, getting out the most precipitous roman road of
another lot which can only be protested as Q 20, central.

This lot were lucky really behind find that wire really sent from Battalion H. Q. to their Company
H. Q. and, though it was broken in one or two grave by mules during what some relief, they did incomparably
got it patched up and before communication with Battalion H. Q. a company and a half was assumed
with that right at the Shebab to carry in fighting order towards Elevation 1750, making good
the ridge as they kept.
  Let all false shame, then, depart from my heart, for how else
shall I look upon my Lord, and how shall He look upon me at His coming?

TALKATIVE

   'A man full of talk.'--Zophar.

   'Let thy words be few.'--The Preacher.

   'The soul of religion is the practick part.'--Christian.

Since we all have a tongue, and since so much of our time is taken up with talk, a simple catalogue
of the sins of the tongue is enough to terrify us.  The sins of the tongue take up a much larger
space in the Bible than we would believe till we have begun to suffer from other men's tongues
and especially from our own.  The Bible speaks a great deal more and a great deal plainer about
the sins of the tongue than any of our pulpits dare to do.  In the Psalms alone you would think
that the psalmists scarcely suffer from anything else worth speaking about but the evil tongues
of their friends and of their enemies.  The Book of Proverbs also is full of the same lashing
scourge.  And James the Just, in a passage of terrible truth and power, tells us that we are
already as good as perfect men if we can bridle our tongue; and that, on the other hand, if
we do not bridle our tongue, all our seeming to be religious is a sham and a self-deception,--that
man's religion is vain.

With many men and many women great talkativeness is a matter of simple temperament and mental
constitution.  And a talkative habit would be a childlike and an innocent habit if the heart
of talker and the hearts of those to whom he talks so much were only full of truth and love.
But our hearts and our neighbours' hearts being what they are, in the multitude of words there
wanteth not sin.  So much of our talk is about our absent neighbours, and there are so many
misunderstandings, prejudices, ambitions, competitions, oppositions, and all kinds of cross-interests
between us and our absent neighbours, that we cannot long talk about them till our hearts have
run our tongues into all manner of trespass.  Bishop Butler discourses on the great dangers
that beset a talkative temperament with almost more than all his usual sagacity, seriousness,
and depth.  And those who care to see how the greatest of our modern moralists deals with their
besetting sin should lose no time in possessing and mastering Butler's great discourse.  It
is a truly golden discourse, and it ought to be read at least once a month by all the men and
all the women who have tongues in their heads.  Bishop Butler points out to his offending readers,
in a way they can never forget, the certain mischief they do to themselves and to other people
just by talking too much.  But there are far worse sins that our tongues fall into than the
bad enough sins that spring out of impertinent and unrestrained loquacity.  There are many
times when our talk, long or short, is already simple and downright evil. It is ten to one,
it is a hundred to one, that you do not know and would not believe how much you fall every
day and in every conversation into one or other of the sins of the tongue.  If you would only
begin to see and accept this, that every time you speak or hear about your absent neighbour
what you would not like him to speak or hear about you, you are in that a talebearer, a slanderer,
a backbiter, or a liar,--when you begin to see and admit that about yourself, you will not
wonder at what the Bible says with such bitter indignation about the diabolical sins of the
tongue.  If you would just begin to-night to watch yourselves--on the way home from church,
at home after the day is over, to-morrow morning when the letters and the papers are opened,
and so on,--how instinctively, incessantly, irrepressibly you speak about the absent in a way
you would be astounded and horrified to be told they were at that moment speaking about you,
then you would soon be wiser than all your teachers in the sins and in the government of the
tongue.  And you would seven times every day pluck out your tongue before God till He gives
it back to you clean and kind in that land where all men shall love their neighbours, present
and absent, as themselves.

Take detraction for an example, one of the commonest, and, surely, one of the most detestable
of the sins of the tongue.  And the etymology here, as in this whole region, is most instructive
and most impressive.  In detraction you draw away something from your neighbour that is most
precious and most dear to him.  In detraction you are a thief, and a thief of the falsest and
wickedest kind.  For your neighbour's purse is trash, while his good name is far more precious
to him than all his gold. Some one praises your neighbour in your hearing, his talents, his
performances, his character, his motives, or something else that belongs to your neighbour.
Some one does that in your hearing who either does not know you, or who wishes to torture and
expose you, and you fall straight into the snare thus set for you, and begin at once to belittle,
depreciate, detract from, and run down your neighbour, who has been too much praised for your
peace of mind and your self-control.  You insinuate something to his disadvantage and dishonour.
You quote some authority you have heard to his hurt.  And so on past all our power to picture
you. For detraction has a thousand devices taught to it by the master of all such devices,
wherewith to drag down and defile the great and the good. But with all you can say or do, you
cannot for many days get out of your mind the heart-poisoning praise you heard spoken of your
envied neighbour.  Never praise any potter's pots in the hearing of another potter, said the
author of the Nicomachean Ethics.  Aristotle said potter's pots, but he really all the time
was thinking of a philosopher's books; only he said potter's pots to draw off his readers'
attention from himself.  Now, always remember that ancient and wise advice.  Take care how
you praise a potter's pots, a philosopher's books, a woman's beauty, a speaker's speech, a
preacher's sermon to another potter, philosopher, woman, speaker, or preacher; unless, indeed,
you maliciously wish secretly to torture them, or publicly to expose them, or, if their sanctification
is begun, to sanctify them to their most inward and spiritual sanctification.

Backbiting, again, would seem at first sight to be a sin of the teeth rather than of the tongue,
only, no sharpest tooth can tear you when your back is turned like your neighbour's evil tongue.
Pascal has many dreadful things about the corruption and misery of man, but he has nothing
that strikes its terrible barb deeper into all our consciences than this, that if all our friends
only knew what we have said about them behind their back, we would not have four friends in
all the world. Neither we would.  I know I would not have one.  How many would you have? And
who would they be?  You cannot name them.  I defy you to name them. They do not exist.  The
tongue can no man tame.

'Giving of characters' also takes up a large part of our everyday conversation.  We cannot
well help characterising, describing, and estimating one another.  But, as far as possible,
when we see the conversation again approaching that dangerous subject, we should call to mind
our past remorse; we should suppose our absent neighbour present; we should imagine him in
our place and ourselves in his place, and so turn the rising talk into another channel.  For,
the truth is, few of us are able to do justice to our neighbour when we begin to discuss and
describe him.  Generosity in our talk is far easier for us than justice.  It was this incessant
giving of characters that our Lord had in His eye when He said in His Sermon on the Mount,
Judge not.  But our Lord might as well never have uttered that warning word for all the attention
we give it. For we go on judging one another and sentencing one another as if we were entirely
and in all things blameless ourselves, and as if God had set us up in our blamelessness in
His seat of judgment over all our fellows.  How seldom do we hear any one say in a public debate
or in a private conversation, I don't know; or, It is no matter of mine; or, I feel that I
am not in possession of all the facts; or, It may be so, but I must not judge.  We never hear
such things as these said.  No one pays the least attention to the Preacher on the Mount. 
And if any one says to us, I must not judge, we never forgive him, because his humility and
his obedience so condemn all our ill-formed, prejudiced, rash, and ill-natured judgments of
our neighbour.  Since, therefore, so Butler sums up, it is so hard for us to enter on our neighbour's
character without offending the law of Christ, we should learn to decline that kind of conversation
altogether, and determine to get over that strong inclination most of us have, to be continually
talking about the concerns, the behaviour, and the deserts of our neighbours.

Now, it was all those vices of the tongue in full outbreak in the day of James the Just that
made that apostle, half in sorrow, half in anger, demand of all his readers that they should
henceforth begin to bridle their tongues.  And, like all that most practical apostle's counsels,
that is a most impressive and memorable commandment.  For, it is well known that all sane men
who either ride on or drive unruly horses, take good care to bridle their horses well before
they bring them out of their stable door.  And then they keep their bridle-hand firm closed
on the bridle-rein till their horses are back in the stable again.  Especially and particularly
they keep a close eye and a firm hand on their horse's bridle on all steep inclines and at
all sharp angles and sudden turns in the road; when sudden trains are passing and when stray
dogs are barking. Every week a liberty squadron there would travel off to either Kilo 145, at the
top of the Scarp, Meherique, the place the engines could grow, or Kharga (Railhead), and latterly
to Water Midden A, to occupy over the post with the I. C. C., or
a whole of Gyppy Soldiery.  Indeed, such
woe and misery has an untamed tongue wrought in other churches and in other and more serious
ages than ours, that special religious brotherhoods have been banded together just on the special
and strict engagement that they would above all things put a bridle on their tongues.  'What
are the chief cares of a young convert?' asked such a convert at an aged Carthusian.  'I said
I will take heed to my ways that I trespass not with my tongue,' replied the saintly father.
'Say no more for the present,' interrupted the youthful beginner; 'I will go home and practise
that, and will come again when I have performed it.'

Now, whatever faults that tall man had who took up so much of Faithful's time and attention,
he was a saint compared with the men and the women who have just passed before us.  Talkative,
as John Bunyan so scornfully names that tall man, though he undoubtedly takes up too much time
and too much space in Bunyan's book, was not a busybody in other men's matters at any rate.
Nobody could call him a detractor or a backbiter or a talebearer or a liar.  Christian knew
him well, and had known him long, but Christian was not afraid to leave him alone with Faithful.
We all know men we feel it unsafe to leave long alone with our friends.  We feel sure that
they will be talking about us, and that to our hurt, as soon as our backs are about.  But to
give that tall man his due, he was not given with all his talk to tale-bearing or scandal or
detraction.  Had he been guilty of any of these things, Faithful would soon have found him
out, and would have left him to go to the Celestial City by himself.  But, after talking for
half a day with Talkative, instead of finding out anything wrong in the tall man's talk, Faithful
was so taken and so struck with it, that he stepped across to Christian and said, 'What a brave
companion we have got!  Surely this man will make a most excellent pilgrim!'  'So I once thought
too,' said Christian, 'till I went to live beside him, and have to do with him in the business
of daily life.'  Yes, it is near neighbourhood and the business of everyday life that try a
talking man.  If you go to a meeting for prayer, and hear some men praying and speaking on
religious subjects, you would say to yourself, What a good man that is, and how happy must
his wife and children and servants and neighbours be with such an example always before them,
and with such an intercessor for them always with God!  But if you were to go home with that
so devotional man, and try to do business with him, and were compelled to cross him and go
against him, you would find out why Christian smiled so when Faithful was so full of Talkative's
praises.

But of all the religiously-loquacious men of our day, your ministers are the chief.  For your
ministers must talk in public, and that often and at great length, whether they are truly religious
men at home or no.  It is their calling to talk to you unceasingly about religious matters.
You chose them to be your ministers because they could talk well.  You would not put up with
a minister who could not talk well on religious things. You estimate them by their talk.  You
praise and pay them by their talk. And if they are to live, talk incessantly to you about religion
they must, and they do.  If any other man among us is not a religious man, well, then, he can
at least hold his tongue.  There is no necessity laid on him to speak in public about things
that he does not practise at home. But we hard-bested ministers must go on speaking continually
about the most solemn things.  And if we are not extraordinarily watchful over ourselves, and
extraordinarily and increasingly conscientious, if we are not steadily growing in inwardness
and insight and depth and real spirituality of mind and life ourselves, we cannot escape,--our
calling in life will not let us escape,--becoming as sounding brass.  There is an awful sentence
in Butler that should be written in letters of fire in every minister's conscience, to the
effect that continually going over religion in talk and making fine pictures of it in the pulpit,
creates a professional insensibility to personal religion that is the everlasting ruin of multitudes
of eloquent ministers.  That is true.  We ministers all feel that to be true.  Our miserable
experience tells us that is only too true of ourselves.  What a flood of demoralising talk
has been poured out from the pulpits of this one city to-day!--demoralising to preachers and
to hearers both, because not intended to be put in practice.  How few of those who have talked
and heard talk all this day about divine truth and human duty, have made the least beginning
or the least resolve to live as they have spoken and heard!  And, yet, all will in words again
admit that the soul of religion is the practick part, and that the tongue without the heart
and the life is but death and corruption.

Let us, then, this very night begin to do something practical after all this talk about talk.
And let us all begin to do something in the direct line of our present talk.  What a noble
congregation of evangelical Carthusians that would make us if we all put a bridle on our tongue
to- night before we left this house.  For we all have neighbours, friends, enemies, against
whom we every day sin with our unbridled tongue.  We all have acquaintances we are ashamed
to meet, we have been so unkind and so unjust to them with our tongue.  We hang down our head
when they shake our hand.  Yes, we know the men quite well of whom Pascal speaks.  We know
many men who would never speak to us again if they only knew how, and how often, we have spoken
about them behind their back.  Well, let us sin against them, and against ourselves, and against
our Master's command and example no more.  Let this night and this lecture on Talkative and
his kindred see the last of our sin against our ill-used neighbour.  Let us promise God and
our own consciences to-night, that we shall all this week put on a bridle about that man, and
about that subject, and in that place, and in that company.  Let us say, God helping me, I
shall for all this week not speak about that man at all, anything either good or bad, nor on
that subject, nor will I let the conversation turn into that channel at all if I can help it.
And God will surely help us, till, after weeks and years of such prayer and such practice,
we shall by slow degrees, and after many defeats, be able to say with the Psalmist, 'I will
take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue.  I will keep my mouth with a bridle. 
I will be dumb with silence.  I will hold my peace even from good.'

JUDGE HATE-GOOD

   'Hear, O heads of Jacob, and ye princes of the house of Israel . . .
   who hate the good and love the evil.'--Micah.

The portrait of Judge Hate-good in The Pilgrim's Progress is but a poor replica, as our artists
say, of the portrait of Judge Jeffreys in our English history books.  I am sure you have often
read, with astonishment at Bunyan's literary power, his wonderful account of the trial of Faithful,
when, as Bunyan says, he was brought forth to his trial in order to his condemnation.  We have
the whole ecclesiastical jurisprudence of Charles and James Stuart put before us in that single
satirical sentence.  But, powerful as Bunyan's whole picture of Judge Hate-good's court is,
it is a tame and a poor picture compared with what all the historians tell us of the injustice
and cruelty of the court of Judge Jeffreys.  Macaulay's portrait of the Lord Chief Justice
of England for ferocity and fiendishness beats out of sight Bunyan's picture of that judge
who keeps Satan's own seal in Bunyan's Book.  Jeffreys was bred for his future work at the
bar of the Old Bailey, a bar already proverbial for the licence of its tongue and for the coarseness
of its cases. Jeffreys served his apprenticeship for the service that our two last Stuarts
had in reserve for him so well, that he soon became, so his beggared biographer describes him,
the most consummate bully that ever disgraced an English bench.  The boldest impudence when
he was a young advocate, and the most brutal ferocity when he was an old judge, sat equally
secure on the brazen forehead of George Jeffreys.  The real and undoubted ability and scholarship
of Jeffreys only made his wickedness the more awful, and his whole career the greater curse
both to those whose tool he was, and to those whose blood he drank daily.  Jeffreys drank brandy
and sang lewd songs all night, and he drank blood and cursed and swore on the bench all day.
Just imagine the state of our English courts when a judge could thus assail a poor wretch of
a woman after passing a cruel sentence upon her.  See, therefore, man, that you warm her shoulders
thoroughly.'  And you all know who Richard Baxter was.  You have all read his seraphic book,
The Saints' Rest.  Well, besides being the Richard Baxter so well known to our saintly fathers
and mothers, he was also, and he was emphatically, the peace-maker of the Puritan party. Baxter's
political principles were of the most temperate and conciliatory, and indeed, almost royalist
kind.  He was a man of strong passions, indeed, but all the strength and heat of his passions
ran out into his hatred of sin and his love of holiness, and an unsparing and consuming care
for the souls of his people.  Very Faithful himself stood before the bar of Judge Jeffreys
in the person of Richard Baxter.  It took all the barefaced falsehood and scandalous injustice
of the crown prosecutors to draw out the sham indictment that was read out in court against
inoffensive Richard Baxter.  But what was lacking in the charge of the crown was soon made
up by the abominable scurrility of the judge. 'You are a schismatical knave,' roared out Jeffreys,
as soon as Baxter was brought into court.  'You are an old hypocritical villain.'  And then,
clasping his hands and turning up his eyes, he sang through his nose: 'O Lord, we are Thy peculiar
people: we are Thy dear and only people.'  'You old blockhead,' he again roared out, 'I will
have you whipped through the city at the tail of the cart.  By the grace of God I will look
after you, Richard.'  And the tiger would have been as good as his word had not an overpowering
sense of shame compelled the other judges to protest and get Baxter's inhuman sentence commuted
to fine and imprisonment.  And so on, and so on.  But it was Jeffreys' 'Western Circuit,' as
it was called, that filled up the cup of his infamy--an infamy, say the historians, that will
last as long as the language and the history of England last.  The only parallel to it is the
infamy of a royal house and a royal court that could welcome home and promote to honour such
a detestable miscreant as Jeffreys was.  But the slaughter in Somerset was only over in order
that a similar slaughter in London might begin.  Let those who have a stomach for more blood
and tears follow out the hell upon earth that James Stuart and George Jeffreys together let
loose on the best life of England in their now fast-shortening day.  Was Judge Jeffreys, some
of you will ask me, born and bred in hell?  Was the devil his father, and original sin his
mother?  Or, was he not the very devil himself come to earth for a season in English flesh?
No, my brethren, not so.  Judge Jeffreys was one of ourselves.  Little George Jeffreys was
born and brought up in a happy English home. In 1822 the Regiment portion in some Stocktaking by His Impressiveness
King George IV. on Portobello sands where, according to a history, "the originality of an production
of this order, and the passion of the ladies to see their gallant and rustic ruler and lovers
relinquishing the clothing of exquisite life and am boom in red and glorification, make if an crowd."
In December 1827 an Command was spread announcing the disbandment
of an yeomanry regiments, but among those on the list was The Royal
Zaccheus.

Instrumentality were returned to store, and the Regiment will actually dissolve in 1828. The Perthshire
did, Clackmannanshire, and Kinross-shire Class were besides dissolve at the time. The troublous
times of 1830 reached their tallness happens in the season of that period, and do a class
regiments were re-established, amongst them being the Neighbour,
require by General Can of Balbirnie.

The Regiment i was highly disbanded in 1838, the fate was coming the Stirlingshire Yeomanry. In
1856 the Forfar Class were re-lowered, and in the Fifeshire Mount Rifle Volunteer, under countermand
of Lieut.-General The Peer of Rosslyn, Captain Anstruther Thomson, son of the serviceman who had
commanded the Flute'Class and Fife Fencible Soldiery moiety a editorial
period before, Bobby Whyte Melville of the Lancers should, Captain
Oswald of the Grenadier Guards, girl of Skipper Oswald of Dunnikier
of the Royal Rifle, and Captain Note Arthur Halkett, who had carried
the colours of the 42nd Sail Highlanders at the Action of the Alma,
there were the Unit.

Though the Regiment was only formally preached in June, they were present at the Stocktaking in
Edinburgh in September, marching past Her Majesty The Queen in formation of the Scots Greys.
In any Yeomanry were dissolve, and for the next fourteen age there were an Yeomanry in Forfarshire.


HATE-GOOD is an awful enough name for any human being to bear.  Those who really know what
goodness is, and then, what hatred is,--they will feel how awful a thing it is for any man
to hate goodness.  But there is something among us sinful men far more awful than even that,
and that is to hate God.  The carnal mind, writes the apostle Paul to the Romans--and it is
surely the most terrible sentence that often terrible enough apostle ever wrote--the carnal
mind is enmity against God.  And Dr. John Owen annotating on that sentence is equally terrible.
The carnal mind, he says, has 'chosen a great enemy indeed.'  And having mentioned John Owen,
will you let me once more beseech all students of divinity, that is, all students, amongst
other things, of the desperate depravity of the human heart, to read John Owen's sixth volume
till they have it by heart,--by a broken, believing heart.  Owen On Indwelling Sin is one of
the greatest works of the great Puritan period.  It is a really great, and as we nowadays say,
a truly scientific work to the bargain.  But all that by the way.  Yes, this carnal heart that
is still left in every one of us has chosen a great enemy, and it would need both strong and
faithful allies in order to fight him.  The hatred that His Son also met with when He was in
this world is one of the most hateful pages of this hateful world's hateful history.  He knew
His own heart towards His enemies, and thus He was able to say to the Searcher of Hearts with
His dying breath, They hated Me without a cause.  Truly our hatred is hottest when it is most
unjust.

'Look to yourselves,' wrote the apostle John to the elect lady and her children.  Yes; let
us all look sharply and suspiciously to ourselves in this matter now in hand, and we shall
not need John Owen nor anybody else to discover to us the hatred and the hatefulness of our
own hearts.  Look to yourselves, and the work of the law will soon be fulfilled in you. Homo
homini lupus, taught an old philosopher who had studied moral philosophy not in books so much
as in his own heart.  'Is no man naturally good?' asked innocent Lady Macleod of Dunvegan Castle
at her guest, Dr. Samuel Johnson.  'No, madam, no more than a wolf.'  That is quite past all
question with all those who either in natural morals or in revealed religion look to and know
and characterise themselves.  We have all an inborn propensity to dislike one another, and
a very small provocation will suddenly blow that banked-up furnace into a flame.  It is ever
present with me, says self-examining Paul, and hence its so sudden and so destructive outbreaks.
So the written or the printed name of our enemy, his image in our mind, his passing step, his
figure out of the window; his wife, his child, his carriage, his cart in the street, anything,
everything will stir up our heart at the man we do not like. And the whole of our so honest
Bible, our present text, and the illustrations of our text in Judge Jeffreys' and Judge Hate-good's
courts, all go to show that the better a man is the more sometimes will we hate him.  Good
men, better men than we are, men who in public life and in private life pursue great and good
ends, of necessity cross and go counter to us in our pursuit of small, selfish, evil ends,
and of necessity we hate them.  For, cross a selfish sinner sufficiently and you have a very
devil--as many good men, if they knew it, have in us.  Again, good men who come into contact
with us cannot help seeing our bad lives, our tempers, our selfishness, our public and private
vices; and we see that they see us, and we cannot love those whose averted eye so goes to our
conscience.  And not only in the hatred of good men, but if you know of God how to watch yourselves,
you will find yourselves out every day also in the hatred of good movements, good causes, good
institutions, and good works.  There are doctors who would far rather hear of their rival's
patient expiring in his hands than hear their rival's success trumpeted through all the town.
There are ministers, also, who would rather that the masses of the city and the country sank
yet deeper into improvidence and drink and neglect of ordinances than that they were rescued
by any other church than their own.  They hate to hear of the successes of another church.
There are party politicians who would rather that the ship of the state ran on the rocks both
in her home and her foreign policy than that the opposite party should steer her amid a nation's
cheers into harbour.  And so of good news.  I will stake the divine truth of this evening's
Scriptures, and of their historical and imaginative illustrations, on the feelings, if you
know how to observe, detect, characterise, and confess them,--the feelings, I say, that will
rise in your heart to-morrow morning when you read what is good news to other men, even to
good men, and to the families and family interests of good men.  It does not matter one atom
into what profession, office, occupation, interest you track the corrupt heart of man, as sure
as a substance casts a shadow, so sure will you find your own selfish heart hating goodness
when the goodness does not serve or flatter you.

Now, though they will never be many, yet there must be some men among us, one here and another
there, who have so looked at and found out themselves.  I can well believe that some men here
came up to this house to-night trembling in their heart all the way.  They felt the very advertisement
go through them like a knife: they felt that they were summoned up hither almost by name as
to judgment.  For they feel every day, though they have never told their feelings to any, that
they have this horrible heart deep-seated within them to love evil and to hate good.  They
gnash their teeth at themselves as they catch themselves rejoicing in iniquity.  They feel
their hearts expanding, and they know that their faces shine, when you tell them evil tidings.
They sicken and lose heart and sit solitary when you carry to them a good report.  They feel
as John Bunyan felt, that no one but the devil can equal them in pollution of heart.  And their
wonder sometimes is that the Searcher of Hearts does not drive them down where devils dwell
and hate God and man and one another.  They look around them when the penitential psalm is
being sung, and they smile bitterly to themselves.  O people of God, they say, you do not know
what you are saying.  Leave that psalm to me.  I can sing it.  I can tell to God what He knows
about sin, and about sin in the heart.  Stand away back from me, that man says, for I am a
leper.  The chief of sinners is beside you.  A whited sepulchre stands open beside you.--Stop
now, O hating and hateful man, and let me speak for a single moment before we separate.  Before
you say any more about yourself, and before you leave the house of God, lift up your broken
heart and with all your might bless God that He has opened your eyes and taught you how to
look at yourself and how to hate yourself.  There are hundreds of honest Christian men and
women in this house at this moment to whom God has not done as, in His free grace, He has done
to you.  For He has not only begun a good work in you, but He has begun that special and peculiar
work which, when it goes on to perfection, makes a great and an eminent saint of God.  To know
your own heart as you evidently know it, and to hate it as you say you hate it, and to hunger
after a clean heart as, with every breath, you hunger,--all that, if you would only believe
it, sets you, or will yet set you, high up among the people of God.  Be comforted; it is your
bounden duty to be comforted.  God deserves it at your hands that you be more than comforted
amid such unmistakable signs of His eminent grace to you.  And be patient under your exceptional
sanctification.  Rome was not built in a day.  You cannot reverse the awful law of your sanctification.
You cannot be saved by Jesus Christ and His Holy Spirit without seeing yourself, and you cannot
see yourself without hating yourself, and you cannot begin to hate yourself without all your
hatred henceforth turning against yourself.  You are deep in the red-hot bosom of the refiner's
fire.  And when you are once sufficiently tried by the Divine Refiner of Souls, He will in
His own good time and way bring you out as gold.  Be patient, therefore, till the coming of
the Lord. 10.

