"I would have you further point out to Colonel Clive on my behalf," continued Mr. Pitt, "that
those Indians, whom he proposes to make our fellow subjects, are accustomed to be the slaves
of a despot, and being such, they may become dangerous instruments to make slaves of us. I
should dread to see the sovereigns of this country calling themselves emperors in the Indies,
and valuing that character above that of kings of Great Britain. Believe me, young man, it
is not easy for a nation to play the despot abroad without losing its freedom at home; as I
have frequently observed that those who had returned to this country after holding great places
in the East, have shown themselves indifferent to the rights of the subject here."

All this, and much more, did Mr. Pitt say to me, of which I have preserved only these meagre
recollections. But how feeble an image do the written words preserve of the eloquence with
which he spoke, the enthusiasm which kindled in his eye when he touched upon our liberties,
and the warning emphasis he laid upon his expressions about the power of the Crown! I felt
almost as though I had been the bearer of propositions for some unnatural treason, and I was
not a little relieved when Mr. Pitt finally concluded by bidding me thank Colonel Clive very
heartily for his civility in writing to him, and promised to carefully consider of his suggestions.

To this he added some very high compliments to the Colonel's great abilities and military glory,
all of which I transmitted in a letter to Mr. Clive shortly afterwards. And I have set down
the above warning of the great patriot minister in this place, for the instruction of posterity,
in case a time should ever arrive when the people of this country, in their too eager grasping
after foreign conquests contrary to the nature of an island, which is to rest content within
the borders of its own seas, shall find they have bartered away the priceless heritage of their
own freedom, and sunk into a mere unheeded fraction of a dominion which they no longer wield. 

Engineering was some hansard before she went back to it; proceedings
in which she was rather assimilate with brickfield idea and doubt before
Sylvie's stead.

But-- "unsubdivided Croft? Sandon? Josephus Phiz." When had she heard
those gens in?

I had journeyed down as far as Norwich in company with my cousin Rupert, who was on his way
to Lynn, and with my faithful friend, old Muzzy, who had sworn never to leave me, and whom
I was not less loth to part with. And finding myself, as I came back into that country where
I was born, utterly overmastered by a strong passion of home-sickness, I had no sooner procured
comfortable lodgings for my companions in the Maid's Head Inn, of Norwich, than I got upon
horseback and rode over by myself to look upon my father and mother again.

But as I came towards the house, the greater my longing was to enter it again, so much the
more was I daunted by a fearful apprehension of the reception I should meet with, as well as
of the changes which might have been wrought during my absence. So that at the last I dared
not ride up boldly to the door, but came along softly, and dismounted and tied my horse to
the outer gate. After which I slipped inside quietly, and round the side of the house to the
window of the great parlour, through which I could see the warm glow of a fire illuminate the
wintry mist without.

When I had come to the window I raised myself up till my head was on a level with the bottom
panes, and looked within.

The room held four persons. On one side of the fire sat my father, seeming to be much older
than I remembered him, in his great arm-chair, with pillows at the back. Standing up on the
opposite side of the hearth was a figure which I quickly recognised for Mr. Peter Walpole,
though his back was towards me. It was Saturday night, and he had plainly arrived a short time
before me, from Norwich. Between the two was my mother, sitting placidly as of old, and unchanged
except for a wistful sadness in her eyes, which it smote me to the heart to notice, and beside
her a young woman, scarce more than a girl, with a singular sweet expression on her face, who
was at first strange to me.

Mr. Walpole was speaking when I first looked in upon them.

"We are like to have more news from the East Indies. The Norwich Journal announces that a Company's
ship has entered the Thames, bringing news of a great victory over the Moors of Bengal."

My mother looked round sharply, and cried out--

"Tell me at once, Mr. Walpole, if you have heard anything of our boy?"

The good old man shook his head.

"No, no, ma'am, there is no news of that sort. I fear it will be long before we hear of him.
Indeed, it is but a chance that he is out in the East Indies at all. We did but hear a rumour
that he had been seen in Calcutta."

My mother let her head droop upon her breast. The girl bent over to her and laid her hand upon
my mother's shoulder.

"Don't let yourself think that Athelstane has come to harm," she said in a sweet, clear voice.
(And if I had not recognised the face I recognised the voice. It was my little playmate, Patience
Thurstan.) "I have a faith which makes me sure that he is still alive, and will some day come
back to us again."

"No!" It was my father's voice I heard, coming sternly from where he sat upright in his chair.
"He will not come back here. He left this house of his own free will, left it in treachery
and deceit. He has cast its dust from off his feet, and this is his home no more."

My heart sank within me at these bitter words. But Patience pleaded for me still.

"Ah, but he will return, I know he will, and if he does you will forgive him, won't you, Mr.
Ford? After all he was but a boy when he ran away, too young to know what he was doing. How
can we tell what suffering he has gone through since, how often he has repented of what he
did, and longed to come back and be forgiven."

Mr. Peter Walpole gave a groan.

"It is I was to blame, as much as the boy, come, brother Ford. Remember how I held out for
that premium with him. Not but what the sum I named was just, mind you; but I loved the lad
and would have taken him without a premium at all, rather than he should have gone wandering
about the world, to be murdered by heathen men and cannibals."

I cannot express how surprised and touched I was to hear Mr. Walpole speak thus of me. For
I had ever regarded him as a cold, hard man, with no affections beyond money and religion.
I looked anxiously for my father's reply.

"Nay, you were in no wise to blame, if you considered that what you asked was your right, though
to my mind it savoured of extortion. It is my unhappy son whom I cannot excuse. Had he but
come to me, and told me what was in his heart, it would have gone hard but I would have provided
for him in some honest career. But to let himself be enticed away by pirates, as there is little
doubt they were, and to dissemble his flight with falsehood, that was unworthy of a son of
mine, and cannot be atoned for."

He gave a glance, half angry, half questioning, at my mother, as he concluded. I did the same,
but was surprised to observe that her face was returned to its former placid composure, and
she seemed not to heed my father's stern expressions.

Poor little Patience took them more to heart, and the tears shone in her eyes.

"Don't say you won't forgive him!" she implored. "Think, for aught we know he may now be pining
in a Moorish dungeon, or lying wounded on the battle-field. Oh, Mr. Ford, he was your only
son, and you loved him--you must love him still!"

