SOME CAUSES OF THE PREVAILING DISCONTENT

By Charles Dudley Warner

The Declaration of Independence opens with the statement of a great and fruitful political
truth. No doubt those who signed the document understood that the second clause limited the
first, and that men are created equal only in respect to certain rights. But the first part
of the clause has been taken alone as the statement of a self-evident truth, and the attempt
to make this unlimited phrase a reality has caused a great deal of misery. In connection with
the neglect of the idea that the recognition of certain duties is as important as the recognition
of rights in the political and social state--that is, in connection with the doctrine of laissez
faire --this popular notion of equality is one of the most disastrous forces in modern society.

Doubtless men might have been created equal to each other in every respect, with the same mental
capacity, the same physical ability, with like inheritances of good or bad qualities, and born
into exactly similar conditions, and not dependent on each other. But men never were so created
and born, so far as we have any record of them, and by analogy we have no reason to suppose
that they ever will be. Inequality is the most striking fact in life. Absolute equality might
be better, but so far as we can see, the law of the universe is infinite diversity in unity;
and variety in condition is the essential of what we call progress--it is, in fact, life. The
great doctrine of the Christian era--the brotherhood of man and the duty of the strong to the
weak--is in sharp contrast with this doctrinarian notion of equality. The Christian religion
never proposed to remove the inequalities of life or its suffering, but by the incoming of
charity and contentment and a high mind to give individual men a power to be superior to their
conditions.

It cannot, however, be denied that the spirit of Christianity has ameliorated the condition
of civilized peoples, cooperating in this with beneficent inventions. Never were the mass of
the people so well fed, so well clad, so well housed, as today in the United States. Their
ordinary daily comforts and privileges were the luxuries of a former age, often indeed unknown
and unattainable to the most fortunate and privileged classes. Nowhere else is it or was it
so easy for a man to change his condition, to satisfy his wants, nowhere else has he or had
he such advantages of education, such facilities of travel, such an opportunity to find an
environment to suit himself. As a rule the mass of mankind have been spot where they were born.
A mighty change has taken place in regard to liberty, freedom of personal action, the possibility
of coming into contact with varied life and an enlarged participation in the bounties of nature
and the inventions of genius. The whole world is in motion, and at liberty to be so. Everywhere
that civilization has gone there is an immense improvement in material conditions during the
last one hundred years.

And yet men were never so discontented, nor did they ever find so many ways of expressing their
discontent. In view of the general amelioration of the conditions of life this seems unreasonable
and illogical, but it may seem less so when we reflect that human nature is unchanged, and
that which has to be satisfied in this world is the mind. And there are some exceptions to
this general material prosperity, in its result to the working classes. Manufacturing England
is an exception. There is nothing so pitiful, so hopeless in the record of man, not in the
Middle Ages, not in rural France just before the Revolution, as the physical and mental condition
of the operators in the great manufacturing cities and in the vast reeking slums of London.
The political economists have made England the world's great workshop, on the theory that wealth
is the greatest good in life, and that with the golden streams flowing into England from a
tributary world, wages would rise, food be cheap, employment constant. The horrible result
to humanity is one of the exceptions to the general uplift of the race, not paralleled as yet
by anything in this country, but to be taken note of as a possible outcome of any material
civilization, and fit to set us thinking whether we have not got on a wrong track. Mr. Froude,
fresh from a sight of the misery of industrial England, and borne straight on toward Australia
over a vast ocean, through calm and storm, by a great steamer,--horses of fire yoked to a sea-chariot,--exclaims:
"What, after all, have these wonderful achievements done to elevate human nature? Human nature
remains as it was. Science grows, but morality is stationary, and art is vulgarized. Not here
lie the 'things necessary to salvation,' not the things which can give to human life grace,
or beauty, or dignity."

In the United States, with its open opportunities, abundant land, where the condition of the
laboring class is better actually and in possibility than it ever was in history, and where
there is little poverty except that which is inevitably the accompaniment of human weakness
and crime, the prevailing discontent seems groundless. But of course an agitation so widespread,
so much in earnest, so capable of evoking sacrifice, even to the verge of starvation and the
risk of life, must have some reason in human nature. Even an illusion--and men are as ready
to die for an illusion as for a reality--cannot exist without a cause.

Now, content does not depend so much upon a man's actual as his relative condition. Often it
is not so much what I need, as what others have that disturbs me. I should be content to walk
from Boston to New York, and be a fortnight on the way, if everybody else was obliged to walk
who made that journey. It becomes a hardship when my neighbor is whisked over the route in
six hours and I have to walk. It would still be a hardship if he attained the ability to go
in an hour, when I was only able to accomplish the distance in six hours. While there has been
a tremendous uplift all along the line of material conditions, and the laboring man who is
sober and industrious has comforts and privileges in his daily life which the rich man who
was sober and industrious did not enjoy a hundred years ago, the relative position of the rich
man and the poor man has not greatly changed. It is true, especially in the United States,
that the poor have become rich and the rich poor, but inequality of condition is about as marked
as it was before the invention of labor-saving machinery, and though workingmen are better
off in many ways, the accumulation of vast fortunes, acquired often in brutal disregard of
humanity, marks the contrast of conditions perhaps more emphatically than it ever appeared
before. That this inequality should continue in an era of universal education, universal suffrage,
universal locomotion, universal emancipation from nearly all tradition, is a surprise, and
a perfectly comprehensible cause of discontent. It is axiomatic that all men are created equal.
But, somehow, the problem does not work out in the desired actual equality of conditions. Perhaps
it can be forced to the right conclusion by violence.

It ought to be said, as to the United States, that a very considerable part of the discontent
is imported, it is not native, nor based on any actual state of things existing here. Agitation
has become a business. A great many men and some women, to whom work of any sort is distasteful,
live by it. Some of them are refugees from military or political despotism, some are refugees
from justice, some from the lowest conditions of industrial slavery. When they come here, they
assume that the hardships they have come away to escape exist here, and they begin agitating
against them. Their business is to so mix the real wrongs of our social life with imaginary
hardships, and to heighten the whole with illusory and often debasing theories, that discontent
will be engendered. For it is by means of that only that they live. It requires usually a great
deal of labor, of organization, of oratory to work up this discontent so that it is profitable.
The solid workingmen of America who know the value of industry and thrift, and have confidence
in the relief to be obtained from all relievable wrongs by legitimate political or other sedate
action, have no time to give to the leadership of agitations which require them to quit work,
and destroy industries, and attack the social order upon which they depend.

In our day a conflagration of the cedars of Lebanon has been the only result of the kingship
of the bramble.

In the opinion of many, our universal education is one of the chief causes of the discontent.
This might be true and not be an argument against education, for a certain amount of discontent
is essential to self-development and if, as we believe, the development of the best powers
of every human being is a good in itself, education ought not to be held responsible for the
evils attending a transitional period. Yet we cannot ignore the danger, in the present stage,
of an education that is necessarily superficial, that engenders conceit of knowledge and power,
rather than real knowledge and power, and that breeds in two-thirds of those who have it a
distaste for useful labor. We believe in education; but there must be something wrong in an
education that sets so many people at odds with the facts of life, and, above all, does not
furnish them with any protection against the wildest illusions. There is something wanting
in the education that only half educates people.

Whether there is the relation of cause and effect between the two I do not pretend to say,
but universal and superficial education in this country has been accompanied with the most
extraordinary delusions and the evolution of the wildest theories. It is only necessary to
refer, by way of illustration, to the greenback illusion, and to the whole group of spiritualistic
disturbances and psychological epidemics. It sometimes seems as if half the American people
were losing the power to apply logical processes to the ordinary affairs of life.

In studying the discontent in this country which takes the form of a labor movement, one is
at first struck by its illogical aspects. So far as it is an organized attempt to better the
condition of men by association of interests it is consistent. But it seems strange that the
doctrine of individualism should so speedily have an outcome in a personal slavery, only better
in the sense that it is voluntary, than that which it protested against. The revolt from authority,
the assertion of the right of private judgment, has been pushed forward into a socialism which
destroys individual liberty of action, or to a state of anarchy in which the weak would have
no protection. I do not imagine that the leaders who preach socialism, who live by agitation
and not by labor, really desire to overturn the social order and bring chaos. If social chaos
came, their occupation would be gone, for if all men were reduced to a level, they would be
compelled to scratch about with the rest for a living. They live by agitation, and they are
confident that government will be strong enough to hold things together, so that they can continue
agitation.

The strange thing is that their followers who live by labor and expect to live by it, and believe
in the doctrine of individualism, and love liberty of action, should be willing to surrender
their discretion to an arbitrary committee, and should expect that liberty of action would
be preserved if all property were handed over to the State, which should undertake to regulate
every man's time, occupation, wages, and so on. The central committee or authority, or whatever
it might be called, would be an extraordinary despotism, tempered only by the idea that it
could be overturned every twenty-four hours. But what security would there be for any calculations
in life in a state of things in expectation of a revolution any moment? Compared with the freedom
of action in such a government as ours, any form of communism is an iniquitous and meddlesome
despotism. In a less degree an association to which a man surrenders the right to say when,
where, and for how much he shall work, is a despotism, and when it goes further and attempts
to put a pressure on all men outside of the association, so that they are free neither to work
nor to hire the workmen they choose, it is an extraordinary tyranny. It almost puts in the
shade Mexican or Russian personal government. A demand is made upon a railway company that
it shall discharge a certain workman because and only because he is not a member of the union.
The company refuses. Then a distant committee orders a strike on that road, which throws business
far and wide into confusion, and is the cause of heavy loss to tens of thousands who have no
interest in any association of capital or labor, many of whom are ruined by this violence.
Some of the results of this surrender of personal liberty are as illegal as illogical.

The boycott is a conspiracy to injure another person, and as such indictable at common law.
A strike, if a conspiracy only to raise wages or to reduce hours of labor, may not be indictable,
if its object cannot be shown to be the injury of another, though that may be incidentally
its effect. But in its incidents, such as violence, intimidation, and in some cases injury
to the public welfare, it often becomes an indictable offense. The law of conspiracy is the
most ill-defined branch of jurisprudence, but it is safe to say of the boycott and the strike
that they both introduce an insupportable element of tyranny, of dictation, of interference,
into private life. If they could be maintained, society would be at the mercy of an irresponsible
and even secret tribunal.

The strike is illogical. Take the recent experience in this country. We have had a long season
of depression, in which many earned very little and labor sought employment in vain. In the
latter part of winter the prospect brightened, business revived, orders for goods poured in
to all the factories in the country, and everybody believed that we were on the eve of a very
prosperous season. This was the time taken to order strikes, and they were enforced in perhaps
a majority of cases against the wishes of those who obeyed the order, and who complained of
no immediate grievance. What men chiefly wanted was the opportunity to work. The result has
been to throw us all back into the condition of stagnation and depression. Many people are
ruined, an immense amount of capital which ventured into enterprises is lost, but of course
the greatest sufferers are the workingmen themselves.

The methods of violence suggested by the communists and anarchists are not remedial. Real difficulties
exist, but these do not reach them. The fact is that people in any relations incur mutual obligations,
and the world cannot go on without a recognition of duties as well as rights. We all agree
that every man has a right to work for whom he pleases, and to quit the work if it does not
or the wages do not suit him. On the other hand, a man has a right to hire whom he pleases,
pay such wages as he thinks he can afford, and discharge men who do not suit him. But when
men come together in the relation of employer and employed, other considerations arise. A man
has capital which, instead of loaning at interest or locking up in real estate or bonds, he
puts into a factory. In other words, he unlocks it for the benefit partly of men who want wages.
He has the expectation of making money, of making more than he could by lending his money.
Perhaps he will be disappointed, for a common experience is the loss of capital thus invested.
He hires workmen at certain wages. On the strength of this arrangement, he accepts orders and
makes contracts for the delivery of goods. He may make money one year and lose the next. It
is better for the workman that he should prosper, for the fund of capital accumulated is that
upon which they depend to give them wages in a dull time. But some day when he is in a corner
with orders, and his rivals are competing for the market, and labor is scarce, his men strike
on him.

Conversely, take the workman settled down to work in the mill, at the best wages attainable
at the time. He has a house and family. He has given pledges to society. His employer has incurred
certain duties in regard to him by the very nature of their relations. Suppose the workman
and his family cannot live in any comfort on the wages he receives. The employer is morally
bound to increase the wages if he can. But if, instead of sympathizing with the situation of
his workman, he forms a combination with all the mills of his sort, and reduces wages merely
to increase his gains, he is guilty of an act as worthy of indictment as the strike. I do not
see why a conspiracy against labor is not as illegal as a conspiracy against capital. The truth
is, the possession of power by men or associations makes them selfish and generally cruel.
Few employers consider anything but the arithmetic of supply and demand in fixing wages, and
workingmen who have the power, tend to act as selfishly as the male printers used to act in
striking in an establishment which dared to give employment to women typesetters. It is of
course sentimental to say it, but I do not expect we shall ever get on with less friction than
we have now, until men recognize their duties as well as their rights in their relations with
each other.

In running over some of the reasons for the present discontent, and the often illogical expression
of it, I am far from saying anything against legitimate associations for securing justice and
fair play. Disassociated labor has generally been powerless against accumulated capital. Of
course, organized labor, getting power will use its power (as power is always used) unjustly
and tyrannically. It will make mistakes, it will often injure itself while inflicting general
damage. But with all its injustice, with all its surrender of personal liberty, it seeks to
call the attention of the world to certain hideous wrongs, to which the world is likely to
continue selfishly indifferent unless rudely shaken out of its sense of security. Some of the
objects proposed by these associations are chimerical, but the agitation will doubtless go
on until another element is introduced into work and wages than mere supply and demand. I believe
that some time it will be impossible that a woman shall be forced to make shirts at six cents
apiece, with the gaunt figures of starvation or a life of shame waiting at the door. I talked
recently with the driver of a street-car in a large city. He received a dollar and sixty cents
a day. He went on to his platform at eight in the morning, and left it at twelve at night,
sixteen hours of continuous labor every day in the week. He had no rest for meals, only snatched
what he could eat as he drove along, or at intervals of five or eight minutes at the end of
routes. He had no Sunday, no holiday in the year.

Between twelve o'clock at night and eight the next morning he must wash and clean his car.
Thus his hours of sleep were abridged. He was obliged to keep an eye on the passengers to see
that they put their fares in the box, to be always, responsible for them, that they got on
and off without accident, to watch that the rules were enforced, and that collisions and common
street dangers were avoided. This mental and physical strain for sixteen consecutive hours,
with scant sleep, so demoralized him that he was obliged once in two or three months to hire
a substitute and go away to sleep. This is treating a human being with less consideration than
the horses receive. He is powerless against the great corporation; if he complains, his place
is instantly filled; the public does not care.

Now what I want to say about this case, and that of the woman who makes a shirt for six cents
(and these are only types of disregard of human souls and bodies that we are all familiar with),
is that if society remains indifferent it must expect that organizations will attempt to right
them, and the like wrongs, by ways violent and destructive of the innocent and guilty alike.
It is human nature, it is the lesson of history, that real wrongs, unredressed, grow into preposterous
demands. Men are much like nature in action; a little disturbance of atmospheric equilibrium
becomes a cyclone, a slight break in the levee 'a crevasse with immense destructive power.

In considering the growth of discontent, and of a natural disregard of duties between employers
and employed, it is to be noted that while wages in nearly all trades are high, the service
rendered deteriorates, less conscience is put into the work, less care to give a fair day's
work for a fair day's wages, and that pride in good work is vanishing. This may be in the nature
of retaliation for the indifference to humanity taught by a certain school of political economists,
but it is, nevertheless, one of the most alarming features of these times. How to cultivate
the sympathy of the employers with the employed as men, and how to interest the employed in
their work beyond the mere wages they receive, is the double problem.

As the intention of this paper was not to suggest remedies, but only to review some of the
causes of discontent, I will only say, as to this double problem, that I see no remedy so long
as the popular notion prevails that the greatest good of life is to make money rapidly, and
while it is denied that all men who contribute to prosperity ought to share equitably in it.
The employed must recognize the necessity of an accumulated fund of capital, and on the other
hand the employer must be as anxious to have about him a contented, prosperous community, as
to heap up money beyond any reasonable use for it. The demand seems to be reasonable that the
employer in a prosperous year ought to share with the workmen the profits beyond a limit that
capital, risk, enterprise, and superior skill can legitimately claim; and that on the other
hand the workmen should stand by the employer in hard times.

Discontent, then, arises from absurd notions of equality, from natural conditions of inequality,
from false notions of education, and from the very patent fact, in this age, that men have
been educated into wants much more rapidly than social conditions have been adjusted, or perhaps
ever can be adjusted, to satisfy those wants. Beyond all the actual hardship and suffering,
there is an immense mental discontent which has to be reckoned with.

This leads me to what I chiefly wanted to say in this paper, to the cause of discontent which
seems to me altogether the most serious, altogether the most difficult to deal with. We may
arrive at some conception of it, if we consider what it is that the well-to-do, the prosperous,
the rich, the educated and cultivated portions of society, most value just now.

If, to take an illustration which is sufficiently remote to give us the necessary perspective,
if the political economists, the manufacturers, the traders and aristocracy of England had
had chiefly in mind the development of the laboring people of England into a fine type of men
and women, full of health and physical vigor, with minds capable of expansion and enjoyment,
the creation of decent, happy, and contented homes, would they have reared the industrial fabric
we now see there? If they had not put the accumulation of wealth above the good of individual
humanity, would they have turned England into a grimy and smoky workshop, commanding the markets
of the world by cheap labor, condemning the mass of the people to unrelieved toil and the most
squalid and degraded conditions of life in towns, while the land is more and more set apart
for the parks and pleasure grounds of the rich? The policy pursued has made England the richest
of countries, a land of the highest refinement and luxury for the upper classes, and of the
most misery for the great mass of common people. On this point we have but to read the testimony
of English writers themselves. It is not necessary to suppose that the political economists
were inhuman. They no doubt believed that if England attained this commanding position, the
accumulated wealth would raise all classes into better conditions. Their mistake is that of
all peoples who have made money their first object. Looked at merely on the material side,
you would think that what a philanthropic statesman would desire, who wished a vigorous, prosperous
nation, would be a strong and virile population, thrifty and industrious, and not mere slaves
of mines and mills, degenerating in their children, year by year, physically and morally. But
apparently they have gone upon the theory that it is money, not man, that makes a state.

In the United States, under totally different conditions, and under an economic theory that,
whatever its defects on paper, has nevertheless insisted more upon the worth of the individual
man, we have had, all the same, a distinctly material development. When foreign critics have
commented upon this, upon our superficiality, our commonplaceness, what they are pleased to
call the weary level of our mediocrity, upon the raging unrest and race for fortune, and upon
the tremendous pace of American life, we have said that this is incident to a new country and
the necessity of controlling physical conditions, and of fitting our heterogeneous population
to their environment. It is hardly to be expected, we have said, until, we have the leisure
that comes from easy circumstances and accumulated wealth, that we should show the graces of
the highest civilization, in intellectual pursuits. Much of this criticism is ignorant, and
to say the best of it, ungracious, considering what we have done in the way of substantial
appliances for education, in the field of science, in vast charities, and missionary enterprises,
and what we have to show in the diffused refinements of life.

We are already wealthy; we have greater resources and higher credit than any other nation;
we have more wealth than any save one; we have vast accumulations of fortune, in private hands
and in enormous corporations. There exists already, what could not be said to exist a quarter
of a century ago, a class who have leisure. Now what is the object in life of this great, growing
class that has money and leisure, what does it chiefly care for? In your experience of society,
what is it that it pursues and desires? Is it things of the mind or things of the senses? What
is it that interests women, men of fortune, club-men, merchants, and professional men whose
incomes give them leisure to follow their inclinations, the young men who have inherited money?
Is it political duties, the affairs of state, economic problems, some adjustment of our relations
that shall lighten and relieve the wrongs and misery everywhere apparent; is the interest in
intellectual pursuits and art (except in a dilettante way dictated for a season by fashion)
in books, in the wide range of mental pleasures which make men superior to the accidents of
fortune? Or is the interest of this class, for the most part, with some noble exceptions, rather
in things grossly material, in what is called pleasure? To come to somewhat vulgar details,
is not the growing desire for equipages, for epicurean entertainments, for display, either
refined or ostentatious, rivalry in profusion and expense, new methods for killing time, for
every imaginable luxury, which is enjoyed partly because it pleases the senses, and partly
because it satisfies an ignoble craving for class distinction?

I am not referring to these things as a moralist at all, but simply in their relation to popular
discontent. The astonishing growth of luxury and the habit of sensual indulgence are seen everywhere
in this country, but are most striking in the city of New York, since the fashion and wealth
of the whole country meet there for display and indulgence,--New York, which rivals London
and outdoes Paris in sumptuousness. There congregate more than elsewhere idlers, men and women
of leisure who have nothing to do except to observe or to act in the spectacle of Vanity Fair.
Aside from the display of luxury in the shops, in the streets, in private houses, one is impressed
by the number of idle young men and women of fashion.

It is impossible that a workingman who stands upon a metropolitan street corner and observes
this Bacchanalian revel and prodigality of expense, should not be embittered by a sense of
the inequality of the conditions of life. But this is not the most mischievous effect of the
spectacle. It is the example of what these people care for. With all their wealth and opportunities,
it seems to him that these select people have no higher object than the pleasures of the senses,
and he is taught daily by reiterated example that this is the end and aim of life. When he
sees the value the intelligent and the well-to-do set upon material things, and their small
regard for intellectual things and the pleasures of the mind, why should he not most passionately
desire those things which his more fortunate neighbors put foremost? It is not the sight of
a Peter Cooper and his wealth that discontents him, nor the intellectual pursuits of the scholar
who uses the leisure his fortune gives him for the higher pleasures of the mind. But when society
daily dins upon his senses the lesson that not manhood and high thinking and a contented spirit
are the most desirable things, whether one is rich or poor, is he to be blamed for having a
wrong notion of what will or should satisfy him? What the well-to-do, the prosperous, are seen
to value most in life will be the things most desired by the less fortunate in accumulation.
It is not so much the accumulation of money that is mischievous in this country, for the most
stupid can see that fortunes are constantly shifting hands, but it is the use that is made
of the leisure and opportunity that money brings.

Another observation, which makes men discontented with very slow accumulation, is that apparently,
in the public estimation it does not make much difference whether a man acquires wealth justly
or unjustly. If he only secures enough, he is a power, he has social position, he grasps the
high honors and places in the state. The fact is that the toleration of men who secure wealth
by well known dishonest and sharp practices is a chief cause of the demoralization of the public
conscience.

However the lines social and political may be drawn, we have to keep in mind that nothing in
one class can be foreign to any other, and that practically one philosophy underlies all the
movements of an age. If our philosophy is material, resulting in selfish ethics, all our energies
will have a materialistic tendency. It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that, in a time
when making money is the chief object, if it is not reckoned the chief good, our education
should all tend to what is called practical, that is, to that which can be immediately serviceable
in some profitable occupation of life, to the neglect of those studies which are only of use
in training the intellect and cultivating and broadening the higher intelligence. To this purely
material and utilitarian idea of life, the higher colleges and universities everywhere are
urged to conform themselves. Thus is the utilitarian spirit eating away the foundations of
a higher intellectual life, applying to everything a material measure. In proportion as scholars
yield to it, they are lowering the standard of what is most to be desired in human life, acting
in perfect concert with that spirit which exalts money making as the chief good, which makes
science itself the slave of the avaricious and greedy, and fills all the world with discontented
and ignoble longing. We do not need to be told that if we neglect pure science for the pursuit
of applied science only, applied science will speedily be degraded and unfruitful; and it is
just as true that if we pursue knowledge only for the sake of gain, and not for its own sake,
knowledge will lose the power it has of satisfying the higher needs of the human soul. If we
are seen to put only a money value on the higher education, why should not the workingman,
who regards it only as a distinction of class or privilege, estimate it by what he can see
of its practical results in making men richer, or bringing him more pleasure of the senses?

The world is ruled by ideas, by abstract thought. Society, literature, art, politics, in any
given age are what the prevailing system of philosophy makes them. We recognize this clearly
in studying any past period. We see, for instance, how all the currents of human life changed
upon the adoption of the inductive method; no science, no literature, no art, practical or
fine, no person, inquiring scholar, day laborer, trader, sailor, fine lady or humblest housekeeper,
escaped the influence. Even though the prevailing ethics may teach that every man's highest
duty is to himself, we cannot escape community of sympathy and destiny in this cold-blooded
philosophy.

No social or political movement stands by itself. If we inquire, we shall find one preponderating
cause underlying every movement of the age. If the utilitarian spirit is abroad, it accounts
for the devotion to the production of wealth, and to the consequent separation of classes and
the discontent, and it accounts also for the demand that all education shall be immediately
useful. I was talking the other day with a lady who was doubting what sort of an education
to give her daughter, a young girl of exceedingly fine mental capacity. If she pursued a classical
course, she would, at the age of twenty-one, know very little of the sciences. And I said,
why not make her an intellectual woman? At twenty-one, with a trained mind, all knowledges
are at one's feet.

If anything can correct the evils of devotion to money, it seems to me that it is the production
of intellectual men and women, who will find other satisfactions in life than those of the
senses. And when labor sees what it is that is really most to be valued, its discontent will
be of a nobler kind.

