Again, Amos saw, as we must see, that the God who made these two groups of the text was the
God of light. Amos saw that God was not satisfied with making one star, or two or three stars,
but He makes seven; and having finished that group of worlds, makes another group--group after
group. To the Pleiades He adds Orion. It seems that God likes light so well that He keeps making
it. Only one being in the universe knows the statistics of solar, lunar, stellar, meteoric
creations, and that is the--Creator Himself. And they have all been lovingly christened, each
one a name as distinct as the names of your children. "He telleth the number of the stars;
He calleth them all by their names." The seven Pleiades had names given to them, and they are
Alcyone, Merope, Celæno, Electra, Sterope, Taygete, and Maia.

But think of the billions and trillions of daughters of starry light that God calls by name
as they sweep by Him with beaming brow and lustrous robe! So fond is God of light--natural
light, moral light, spiritual light. Again and again is light harnessed for symbolization--Christ,
the bright and morning star; evangelization, the daybreak; the redemption of nations, Sun of
Righteousness rising with healing in His wings. Oh, men and women, with so many sorrows and
sins and perplexities, if you want light of comfort, light of pardon, light of goodness, in
earnest, pray through Christ, "Seek Him that maketh the Seven Stars and Orion."

Again, Amos saw, as we must see, that the God who made these two archipelagoes of stars must
be an unchanging God. There had been no change in the stellar appearance in this herdsman's
life-time, and his father, a shepherd, reported to him that there had been no change in his
life-time. And these two clusters hang over the celestial arbor now just as they were the first
night that they shone on the Edenic bowers, the same as when the Egyptians built the Pyramids
from the top of which to watch them, the same as when the Chaldeans calculated the eclipses,
the same as when Elihu, according to the Book of Job, went out to study the aurora borealis,
the same under Ptolemaic system and Copernican system, the same from Calisthenes to Pythagoras,
and from Pythagoras to Herschel. Surely, a changeless God must have fashioned the Pleiades
and Orion! Oh, what an anodyne amid the ups and downs of life, and the flux and reflux of the
tides of prosperity, to know that we have a changeless God, the same yesterday, to-day, and
forever.

Xerxes garlanded and knighted the steersman of his boat in the morning, and hanged him in the
evening of the same day. Fifty thousand people stood around the columns of the national capitol,
shouting themselves hoarse at the presidential inaugural, and in four months so great were
the antipathies that a ruffian's pistol in Washington depot expressed the sentiment of a great
multitude. The world sits in its chariot and drives tandem, and the horse ahead is Huzza, and
the horse behind is Anathema. Lord Cobham, in King James' time, was applauded, and had thirty-five
thousand dollars a year, but was afterward execrated, and lived on scraps stolen from the royal
kitchen. Alexander the Great after death remained unburied for thirty days, because no one
would do the honor of shoveling him under. The Duke of Wellington refused to have his iron
fence mended, because it had been broken by an infuriated populace in some hour of political
excitement, and he left it in ruins that men might learn what a fickle thing is human favor.
This moment "seek Him that maketh the Seven Stars and Orion."

Again, Amos saw, as we must see, that the God who made these two beacons of the Oriental night
sky must be a God of love and kindly warning. The Pleiades rising in mid-sky said to all the
herdsmen and shepherds and husbandmen: "Come out and enjoy the mild weather, and cultivate
your gardens and fields." Orion, coming in winter, warned them to prepare for tempest. All
navigation was regulated by these two constellations. The one said to shipmaster and crew:
"Hoist sail for the sea, and gather merchandise from other lands." But Orion was the storm-signal,
and said: "Reef sail, make things snug, or put into harbor, for the hurricanes are getting
their wings out." As the Pleiades were the sweet evangels of the spring, Orion was the warning
prophet of the winter.

Oh, now I get the best view of God I ever had! There are two kinds of sermons I never want
to preach--the one that presents God so kind, so indulgent, so lenient, so imbecile that men
may do what they will against Him, and fracture His every law, and put the cry of their impertinence
and rebellion under His throne, and while they are spitting in His face and stabbing at His
heart, He takes them up in His arms and kisses their infuriated brow and cheek, saying, "Of
such is the kingdom of heaven." The other kind of sermon I never want to preach is the one
that represents God as all fire and torture and thundercloud, and with red-hot pitch-fork tossing
the human race into paroxysms of infinite agony. The sermon that I am now preaching believes
in a God of loving, kindly warning, the God of spring and winter, the God of the Pleiades and
Orion.

You must remember that the winter is just as important as the spring. Let one winter pass without
frost to kill vegetation and ice to bind the rivers and snow to enrich our fields, and then
you will have to enlarge your hospitals and your cemeteries. "A green Christmas makes a fat
grave-yard," was the old proverb. Storms to purify the air. Thermometer at ten degrees above
zero to tone up the system. December and January just as important as May and June. I tell
you we need the storms of life as much as we do the sunshine. There are more men ruined by
prosperity than by adversity. If we had our own way in life, before this we would have been
impersonations of selfishness and worldliness and disgusting sin, and puffed up until we would
have been like Julius Cæsar, who was made by sycophants to believe that he was divine, and
the freckles on his face were as the stars of the firmament.

One of the swiftest transatlantic voyages made last summer by the "Etruria" was because she
had a stormy wind abaft, chasing her from New York to Liverpool. But to those going in the
opposite direction the storm was a buffeting and a hinderance. It is a bad thing to have a
storm ahead, pushing us back; but if we be God's children and aiming toward heaven, the storms
of life will only chase us the sooner into the harbor. I am so glad to believe that the monsoons,
and typhoons, and mistrals, and siroccos of the land and sea are not unchained maniacs let
loose upon the earth, but are under divine supervision! I am so glad that the God of the Seven
Stars is also the God of Orion! It was out of Dante's suffering came the sublime "Divina Commedia,"
and out of John Milton's blindness came "Paradise Lost," and out of miserable infidel attack
came the "Bridgewater Treatise" in favor of Christianity, and out of David's exile came the
songs of consolation, and out of the sufferings of Christ came the possibility of the world's
redemption, and out of your bereavement, your persecution, your poverties, your misfortunes,
may yet come an eternal heaven.

Oh, what a mercy it is that in the text and all up and down the Bible God induces us to look
out toward other worlds! Bible astronomy in Genesis, in Joshua, in Job, in the Psalms, in the
prophets, major and minor, in St. John's Apocalypse, practically saying, "Worlds! worlds! worlds!
Get ready for them!" We have a nice little world here that we stick to, as though losing that
we lose all. We are afraid of falling off this little raft of a world. We are afraid that some
meteoric iconoclast will some night smash it, and we want everything to revolve around it,
and are disappointed when we find that it revolves around the sun instead of the sun revolving
around it. What a fuss we make about this little bit of a world, its existence only a short
time between two spasms, the paroxysm by which it was hurled from chaos into order, and the
paroxysm of its demolition.

And I am glad that so many texts call us to look off to other worlds, many of them larger and
grander and more resplendent. "Look there," says Job, "at Mazaroth and Arcturus and his sons!"
"Look there," says St. John, "at the moon under Christ's feet!" "Look there," says Joshua,
"at the sun standing still above Gibeon!" "Look there," says Moses, "at the sparkling firmament!"
"Look there," says Amos, the herdsman, "at the Seven Stars and Orion!" Don't let us be so sad
about those who shove off from this world under Christly pilotage. Don't let us be so agitated
about our own going off this little barge or sloop or canal-boat of a world to get on some
"Great Eastern" of the heavens. Don't let us persist in wanting to stay in this barn, this
shed, this outhouse of a world, when all the King's palaces already occupied by many of our
best friends are swinging wide open their gates to let us in.

When I read, "In my Father's house are many mansions," I do not know but that each world is
a room, and as many rooms as there are worlds, stellar stairs, stellar galleries, stellar hallways,
stellar windows, stellar domes. How our departed friends must pity us shut up in these cramped
apartments, tired if we walk fifteen miles, when they some morning, by one stroke of wing,
can make circuit of the whole stellar system and be back in time for matins! Perhaps yonder
twinkling constellation is the residence of the martyrs; that group of twelve luminaries is
the celestial home of the Apostles. Perhaps that steep of light is the dwelling-place of angels
cherubic, seraphic, archangelic. A mansion with as many rooms as worlds, and all their windows
illuminated for festivity.

Oh, how this widens and lifts and stimulates our expectation! How little it makes the present,
and how stupendous it makes the future! How it consoles us about our pious dead, that instead
of being boxed up and under the ground have the range of as many rooms as there are worlds,
and welcome everywhere, for it is the Father's house, in which there are many mansions! Oh,
Lord God of the Seven Stars and Orion, how can I endure the transport, the ecstasy, of such
a vision! I must obey my text and seek Him. I will seek Him. I seek Him now, for I call to
mind that it is not the material universe that is most valuable, but the spiritual, and that
each of us has a soul worth more than all the worlds which the inspired herdsman saw from his
booth on the hills of Tekoa.

I had studied it before, but the Cathedral of Cologne, Germany, never impressed me as it did
this summer. It is admittedly the grandest Gothic structure in the world, its foundation laid
in 1248, only two or three years ago completed. More than six hundred years in building. All
Europe taxed for its construction. Its chapel of the Magi with precious stones enough to purchase
a kingdom. Its chapel of St. Agnes with masterpieces of painting. Its spire springing five
hundred and eleven feet into the heavens. Its stained glass the chorus of all rich colors.
Statues encircling the pillars and encircling all. Statues above statues, until sculpture can
do no more, but faints and falls back against carved stalls and down on pavements over which
the kings and queens of the earth have walked to confession. Nave and aisles and transept and
portals combining the splendors of sunrise. Interlaced, interfoliated, intercolumned grandeur.
As I stood outside, looking at the double range of flying buttresses and the forest of pinnacles,
higher and higher and higher, until I almost reeled from dizziness, I exclaimed; "Great doxology
in stone! Frozen prayer of many nations!"

But while standing there I saw a poor man enter and put down his pack and kneel beside his
burden on the hard floor of that cathedral. And tears of deep emotion came into my eyes, as
I said to myself: "There is a soul worth more than all the material surroundings. That man
will live after the last pinnacle has fallen, and not one stone of all that cathedral glory
shall remain uncrumbled. He is now a Lazarus in rags and poverty and weariness, but immortal,
and a son of the Lord God Almighty; and the prayer he now offers, though amid many superstitions,
I believe God will hear; and among the Apostles whose sculptured forms stand in the surrounding
niches he will at last be lifted, and into the presence of that Christ whose sufferings are
represented by the crucifix before which he bows; and be raised in due time out of all his
poverties into the glorious home built for him and built for us by 'Him who maketh the Seven
Stars and Orion.'"

THE QUEEN'S VISIT.

    "Behold, the half was not told me."--I KINGS x: 7.

Solomon had resolved that Jerusalem should be the center of all sacred, regal, and commercial
magnificence. He set himself to work, and monopolized the surrounding desert as a highway for
his caravans. He built the city of Palmyra around one of the principal wells of the East, so
that all the long trains of merchandise from the East were obliged to stop there, pay toll,
and leave part of their wealth in the hands of Solomon's merchants. He manned the fortress
Thapsacus at the chief ford of the Euphrates, and put under guard everything that passed there.
The three great products of Palestine--wine pressed from the richest clusters and celebrated
all the world over; oil which in that hot country is the entire substitute for butter and lard,
and was pressed from the olive branches until every tree in the country became an oil well;
and honey which was the entire substitute for sugar--these three great products of the country
Solomon exported, and received in return fruits and precious woods and the animals of every clime.

He went down to Ezion-geber and ordered a fleet of ships to be constructed, oversaw the workmen,
and watched the launching of the flotilla which was to go out on more than a year's voyage,
to bring home the wealth of the then known world. He heard that the Egyptian horses were large
and swift, and long-maned and round-limbed, and he resolved to purchase them, giving eighty-five
dollars apiece for them, putting the best of these horses in his own stall, and selling the
surplus to foreign potentates at great profit.

He heard that there was the best of timber on Mount Lebanon, and he sent out one hundred and
eighty thousand men to hew down the forest and drag the timber through the mountain gorges,
to construct it into rafts to be floated to Joppa, and from thence to be drawn by ox-teams
twenty-five miles across the land to Jerusalem. He heard that there were beautiful flowers
in other lands. He sent for them, planted them in his own gardens, and to this very day there
are flowers found in the ruins of that city such as are to be found in no other part of Palestine,
the lineal descendants of the very flowers that Solomon planted. He heard that in foreign groves
there were birds of richest voice and most luxuriant wing. He sent out people to catch them
and bring them there, and he put them into his cages.

