[Footnote 387: Note 3 C, p. 387. His majesty seems to have abated of this respect in the sequel,
if we may believe the assertions of his Polish majesty's queen and the court of Vienna, who
affirmed, that sentinels were posted within the palace where the queen and royal family resided;
as also at the door of the secret cabinet, where the papers relating to foreign transactions
were deposited. The keys of this cabinet were seized, and all the writings demanded. The whole
Saxon ministry were discharged from their respective employments, and a new commission was
established by the king of Prussia for the administration of affairs in general. When the queen
entreated this prince to remove the sentinels posted within the palace and contiguous passages,
agreeably to his assurances that all due respect should be observed towards the royal family,
the king ordered the guards to be doubled, and sent an officer to demand of her majesty the
keys of the secret cabinet. The queen obtained this officer's consent that the doors should
be sealed up, but afterwards he returned with orders to break them open: then her majesty,
placing herself before the door, said, she trusted so much to the promise of the king of Prussia,
that she could not believe he had given such orders. The officer declaring that his orders
were positive, and that he durst not disobey them, she continued in the same place, declaring,
that if violence was to be used, he must begin with her. The officer returning to acquaint
the king with what had passed, her majesty conjured the ministers of Prussia and England to
remind his majesty of his promise; but her representations had no effect: the officer returned
with fresh orders to use force, in spite of the opposition she might make against it in person.
The queen, finding herself in danger of her life, at length withdrew: the doors were forced,
the chests broke open, and all the papers seized.]

[Footnote 388: Note 3 D, p. 388. The letter was to the following effect:--"Veldt-Mareschal
Count Rutowski, It is not without extreme sorrow I understand the deplorable situation, which
a chain of misfortunes has reserved for you, the rest of my generals, and my whole army; but
we must acquiesce in the dispensations of Providence, and console ourselves with the rectitude
of our sentiments and intentions. They would force me, it seems, as you gave me to understand
by major-general the baron de Dyherrn, to submit to conditions the more severe, in proportion
as the circumstances become more necessitous. I cannot hear them mentioned. I am a free monarch:
such I will live; such I will die; and I will both live and die with honour. The fate of my
army I leave wholly to your discretion. Let your council of war determine whether you must
surrender prisoners of war, fall by the sword, or die by famine. May your resolutions, if possible,
be conducted by humanity: whatever they may be, I have no longer any share in them; and I declare
you shall not be answerable for aught but one thing, namely, not to carry arms against me or
my allies. I pray God may have you, Mr. Mareschal, in his holy keeping.--Given at Koningstein,
the 14th of October, 1756. "AUGUSTUS, Kex." "To the Veldt-Mareschal the Count Rutowski."

[Footnote 392: Note 3 E, p. 392. Rear-admiral Knowles being, in the month of December, one
thousand seven hundred and forty-nine, tried at Deptford, before a court-martial, for his behaviour
in and relating to an action which happened on the first day of October in the preceding year,
between a British squadron under his command, and a squadron of Spain, the court was unanimously
of opinion, that the said Knowles, while he was standing for the enemy, might, by a different
disposition of his squadron, have begun the attack with six ships as early in the day as four
of them were engaged; and that, therefore, by his neglecting so to do, he gave the enemy a
manifest advantage; that the said Knowles remained on board the ship Cornwall with his flag,
after she was disabled from continuing the action, though he might, upon her being disabled,
have shifted his flag on board another ship; and the court were unanimously of opinion he ought
to have done so, in order to have conducted and directed, during the whole action, the motions
of the squadron intrusted to his care and conduct. Upon consideration of the whole conduct
of the said Knowles, relating to that action, the court did unanimously agree that he fell
under part of the fourteenth article of the articles of war, namely, the word negligence, and
no other; and also under the twenty-third article.--The court, therefore, unanimously adjudged,
that he should be reprimanded for not bringing up the squadron in closer order than he did,
and not beginning the attack with as great force as he might have done; and also for not shifting
his flag, upon the Cornwall's being disabled.]

[Footnote 395: Note 3 F, p. 395. It was enacted, that persons pawning, exchanging, or disposing
of goods, without leave of the owner, should suffer in the penalty of twenty shillings; and,
on non-payment, be committed for fourteen days to hard labour; afterwards, if the money could
not be then paid, to be whipped publicly in the house of correction, or such other place as
the justice of the peace should appoint, on publication of the prosecutor; that every pawnbroker
should make entry of the person's name and place of abode who pledges any goods with him; and
the pledger, if he require it, should have a duplicate of that entry; that a pawnbroker receiving
linen or apparel intrusted to others to be washed or mended, should forfeit double the sum
lent upon it, and restore the goods; that upon oath of any person whose goods are unlawfully
pawned or exchanged, the justice should issue a warrant to search the suspected person's house;
and upon refusal of admittance the officer might break open the door; that goods pawned for
any sum not exceeding ten pounds might be recovered within two years, the owner making oath
of the pawning, and tendering the principal, interest, and charges; that goods remaining unredeemed
for two years should be forfeited and sold, the overplus to be accounted for to the owner on
demand.]

[Footnote 396: Note 3 G, p. 395. It likewise imported, that all contracts or agreements made
between clothiers and weavers in respect to wages, should, from and after the first of May,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-seven, be valid, notwithstanding any rate
established, or to be established; but that these contracts or agreements should extend only
to the actual prices or rates of workmanship or wages, and not to the payment thereof in any
other manner than in money; and that if any clothier should refuse or neglect to pay the weaver
the wages or price agreed on, in money, within two days after the work should be performed
and delivered, the same being demanded, he should forfeit forty shillings for every such offence.]

[Footnote 401: Note 3 H, p. 401. Admiral F..... s's reasons for not signing the warrant for
admiral Byng's execution.

"It may be thought great presumption in me to differ from so great authority as that of the
twelve judges; but when a man is called upon to sign his name to an act which is to give authority
to the shedding of blood, he ought to be guided by his own conscience, and not by the opinions
of other men.

"In the case before us, it is not the merit of admiral Byng that I consider; whether he deserves
death or not, is not a question for me to decide; but whether or not his life can be taken
away by the sentence pronounced on him by the court-martial, and after having so clearly explained
their motives for pronouncing such a sentence, is the point which alone has employed my serious
consideration.

"The twelfth article of war, on which admiral Byng's sentence is grounded, says (according
to my understanding of its meaning), 'That every person, who, in time of action, shall withdraw,
keep back, or not come into fight, or do his utmost, &c. through motives of cowardice, negligence,
or disaffection, shall suffer death.' The court-martial does, in express words, acquit admiral
Byng of cowardice and disaffection, and does not name the word negligence. Admiral Byng does
not, as I conceive, fall under the letter or description of the twelfth article of war. It
may be said that negligence is implied, though the word is not mentioned, otherwise the court-martial
would not have brought his offence under the twelfth article, having acquitted him of cowardice
and disaffection. But it must be acknowledged that the negligence implied cannot be wilful
negligence; for wilful negligence in admiral Byng's situation, must have proceeded either from
cowardice or disaffection, and he is expressly acquitted of both these crimes; besides, these
crimes, which are implied only and not named, may indeed justify suspicion and private opinion,
but cannot satisfy the conscience in case of blood.

"Admiral Byng's fate was referred to a court-martial, his life and death were left to their
opinions. The court-martial condemn him to death, because, as they expressly say, they were
under a necessity of doing so by reason of the letter of the law, the severity of which they
complained of, because it admits of no mitigation. The court-martial expressly say, that for
the sake of their consciences, as well as in justice to the prisoner, they most earnestly recommend
him to his majesty for mercy; it is evident, then, that in the opinions and consciences of
the judges he was not deserving of death.

"The question then is, shall the opinions or necessities of the court-martial determine admiral
Byng's fate? If it should be the latter, he will be executed contrary to the intentions and
meaning of his judges; if the former, his life is not forfeited. His judges declare him not
deserving of death; but, mistaking either the meaning of the law, or the nature of his offence,
they bring him under an article of war, which, according to their own description of his offence,
he does not, I conceive, fall under; and then they condemn him to death, because, as they say,
the law admits of no mitigation. Can a man's life be taken away by such a sentence? I would
not willingly be misunderstood, and have it believed that I judge admiral Byng's deserts; that
was the business of a court-martial, and it is my duty only to act according to my conscience;
which, after deliberate consideration, assisted by the best light a poor understanding can
afford it, remains still in doubt, and therefore I cannot consent to sign a warrant whereby
the sentence of the court-martial may be carried into execution; for I cannot help thinking,
that however criminal admiral Byng may be, his life is not forfeited by that sentence. I do
not mean to find fault with other men's opinions; all I endeavour at is, to give reasons for
my own; and all I desire or wish is, that I may not be misunderstood; I do not pretend to judge
admiral Byng's deserts, nor to give any opinion on the propriety of the act. "Signed, 6th Feb.
1757, at the Admiralty, " J. F..... S."]

[Footnote 419: Note 3 I, p. 419. "The Imperial grenadiers (says he) are an admirable corps;
one hundred companies defended a rising ground, which my best infantry could not carry. Ferdinand,
who commanded them, returned seven times to the charge; but to no purpose. At first he mastered
a battery, but could not hold it. The enemy had the advantage of a numerous and well-served
artillery. It did honour to Lichtenstein, who had the direction. Only the Prussian army can
dispute it with him. My infantry were too few. All my cavalry were present, and idle spectators,
excepting a bold push by my household troops, and some dragoons. Ferdinand attacked without
powder; the enemy, in return, were not sparing of theirs. They had the advantage of a rising
ground, of intrenchments, and of a prodigious artillery. Several of my regiments were repulsed
by their musketry. Henry performed wonders. I tremble for my worthy brothers; they are too
brave. Fortune turned her back on me this day. I ought to have expected it; she is a female,
and I am no gallant. In fact, I ought to have had more infantry. Success, my dear lord, often
occasions destructive confidence. Twenty-four battalions were not sufficient to dislodge sixty
thousand men from an advantageous post. Another time we will do better. What say you of this
league, which has only the marquis of Brandenburgh for its object? The great elector would
be surprised to see his grandson at war with the Russians, the Austrians, almost all Germany,
and an hundred thousand French auxiliaries. I know not whether it would be disgrace in me to
submit, but I am sure there will be no glory in vanquishing me."]

[Footnote 422: Note 3 K, p. 422. This remarkable capitulation, which we shall give here at
full length, on account of the disputes that rose shortly after, concerning what the French
called an infraction of it, was to the following effect:--

His majesty, the king of Denmark--touched with the distresses of the countries of Bremen and
Verden, to which he has always granted his special protection; and being desirous, by preventing
those countries from being any longer the theatre of war, to spare also the effusion of blood
in the armies which are ready to dispute the possession thereof--hath employed his mediation
by the ministry of the count de Lynar. His royal highness the duke of Cumberland, general of
the army of the allies, on the one part, and his excellency the mareschal duke de Richelieu,
general of the king of France's forces in Germany, on the other, have, in consideration of
the intervention of his Danish majesty, respectively engaged their word of honour to the count
de Lynar, to abide by the convention hereafter stipulated; and he, the count de Lynar, correspondently
to the magnanimity of the king his master's intention, obliges himself to procure the guarantee
mentioned in the present convention; so that it shall be sent to him, with his full powers,
which there was no time to make out in the circumstances which hurried his departure.

Article I. Hostilities shall cease on both sides within twenty-four hours, or sooner, if possible.
Orders for this purpose shall be immediately sent to the detached corps.

II. The auxiliary troops of the army of the duke of Cumberland, namely, those of Hesse, Brunswick,
Saxe-Gotha, and even those of the count de la Lippe Bucke-bourg, shall be sent home; and as
it is necessary to settle particularly their march to their respective countries, a general
officer of each nation shall be sent from the army of the allies, with whom shall be settled
the route of those troops, the divisions they shall march in, their subsistence on their march,
and their passports to be granted them by his excellency the duke de Richelieu to go to their
own countries, where they shall be placed and distributed as shall be agreed upon between the
court of France and their respective sovereigns.

III. His royal highness the duke of Cumberland obliges himself to pass the Elbe, with such
part of his army as he shall not be able to place in the city of Stade; that the part of his
forces which shall enter into garrison in the said city, and which it is supposed may amount
to between four and six thousand men, shall remain there under the guarantee of his majesty
the king of Denmark, without committing any act of hostility; nor, on the other hand, shall
they be exposed to any of the French troops. In consequence thereof, commissaries, named on
each side, shall agree upon the limits to be fixed round that place, for the convenieucy of
the garrison; which limits shall not extend beyond half a league or a league from the place,
according to the nature of the ground or circumstances, which shall be fairly settled by the
commissaries. The rest of the Hanoverian army shall go and take quarters in the country beyond
the Elbe; and, to facilitate the march of those troops, his excellency the duke de Richelieu
shall concert with a general officer, sent from the Hanoverian army, the route they shall take;
obliging himself to give the necessary passports and security for the free passage of them
and their baggage, to the places of their destination; his royal highness the duke of Cumberland
reserving to himself the liberty of negotiating between the two courts for an extension of
those quarters. As to the French troops, they shall remain in the rest of the duchies of Bremen
and Verden, till the definitive reconciliation of the two sovereigns.

IV.. As the aforesaid articles are to be executed as soon as possible, the Hanoverian army,
and the corps which are detached from it, particularly that which is at Buck Schantz and the
neighbourhood, shall retire under Stade in the space of eight-and-forty hours. The French army
shall not pass the river Oste, in the duchy of Bremen, till the limits be regulated. It shall,
besides, keep all the posts and countries of which it is in possession; and, not to retard
the regulation of the limits between the armies, commissaries shall be nominated and sent on
the 10th instant to Bremen-worden by his royal highness the duke of Cumberland, and his excellency
the mareschal duke de Richelieu, to regulate, as well the limits to be assigned to the French
army, as those that are to be observed by the garrison at Stade, according to Art. III.

V. All the aforesaid articles shall be faithfully executed, according to their form and tenor,
and under the faith of his majesty the king of Denmark's guarantee, which the count de Lynar,
his minister, engages to procure.

Done at the camp at Closter-Seven, 8th Sept. 1757. (Signed) WILLIAM.

SEPARATE ARTICLES. Upon the representation made by the count de Lynar, with a view to explain
some dispositions made by the present convention, the following articles have been added:--

I. It is the intention of his excellency the mareschal duke de Richelieu, that the allied troops
of his royal highness the duke of Cumberland shall be sent back to their respective countries,
according to the form mentioned in the second article; and that, as to their separation and
distribution in the country, it shall be regulated between the courts, those troops not being
considered as prisoners of war.

II. It having been represented that the country of Lunenberg cannot accommodate more than fifteen
battalions and six squadrons, and that the city of Stade cannot absolutely contain the garrison
of six thousand men allotted to it, his excellency the mareschal duke de Richelieu, being pressed
by M. de Lynar, who supported this representation by the guarantee of his Danish majesty, gives
his consent; and his royal highness the duke of Cumberland engages to cause fifteen battalions
and six squadrons to pass the Elbe, and the whole body of hunters, and the remaining ten battalions
and twenty-eight squadrons shall be placed in the town of Stade, and the places nearest to
it that are within the line, which shall be marked by posts from the mouth of the Liche in
the Elbe, to the mouth of the Elmerbeck in the river Oste; provided always, that the said ten
battalions and twenty-eight squadrons shall be quartered there as they are at the time of signing
this convention, and shall not be recruited under any pretext, or augmented in any case; and
this clause is particularly guaranteed by the count de Lynar in the name of his Danish majesty.

III. Upon the representation of his royal highness the duke of Cumberland, that the army and
the detached corps cannot both retire under Stade in eight-and-forty hours, agreeable to the
convention, his excellency the mareschal duke de Richelieu hath signified, that he will grant
them proper time, provided the corps encamped at Buck Schantz, as well as the army encamped
at Bremen-worden, begin their inarch to retire in four-and-twenty hours after signing the convention.
The time necessary for other arrangements, and the execution of the articles concerning the
respective limits, shall be settled between lieutenant-general Sporcken, and the marquis de
Villemar, first lieutenant-general of the king's army. Done, &c]

[Footnote 433: Note 3 L, p. 433. The letter, which was written in French, we have translated
for the reader's satisfaction:--"I am informed that the design of a treaty of neutrality for
the electorate of Hanover is not yet laid aside. Is it possible that your majesty can have
so little fortitude and constancy, as to be dispirited by a small reverse of fortune? Are affairs
so ruinous that they cannot be repaired? I hope your majesty will consider the step you have
made me hazard, and remember that you are the sole cause of these misfortunes that now impend
over my head. I should never have abandoned the alliance of France, but for your flattering
assurances. I do not now repent of the treaty I have concluded with your majesty: but I expect
you will not ingloriously leave me at the mercy of my enemies, after having brought upon me
all the force of Europe. I depend upon your adhering to your repeated engagements of the twenty-sixth
of last month, and that you will listen to no treaty in which I am not comprehended."]

[Footnote 438: Note 3 M, p. 438. It was enacted, That every person subscribing for five hundred
pounds, should be entitled to four hundred and fifty in annuities, and fifty pounds in lottery
tickets, and so in proportion for a greater or lesser sum; that the lottery should consist
of tickets of the value of ten pounds each, in a proportion not exceeding eight blanks to a
prize; the blanks to be of the value of six pounds each; the blanks and prizes to bear an interest
after the rate of three pounds per cent., to commence from the first day of January, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and fifty-nine; and that the sum of four millions five hundred
thousand pounds, to be raised by annuities, should bear an interest after the rate of three
pounds ten shillings percent, from the fifth day of July in the present year; which annuities
should stand reduced to three pounds per cent, after the expiration of twenty-four years, and
afterwards he redeemable in the whole, or in part, by sums not less than five hundred thousand
pounds, at one time: six months' notice having been first given of such payments respectively;
that any subscriber might, on or before the twenty-ninth day of April, make a deposit of ten
pounds per cent, on such sums as he should choose to subscribe towards raising these five millions,
with the cashiers of the bank, as a security for his future payments on the days appointed
for that purpose; that the several sums so received by the cashiers should be paid into the
receipt of the exchequer, to be applied from time to time to such services as should then have
been voted by the house of commons in this session of parliament, and not otherwise; that any
subscriber, paying the whole or any part of his subscription previous to the clays appointed
for the respective payments, should be allowed a discount at the rate of three per cent, from
the days of such respective payments to the respective times on which such payments were directed
to be made, and that all persons who should make their full payments on the said lottery, should
receive their tickets as soon as they could be conveniently made out.]

[Footnote 440: Note 3 N, p. 440. Among those rendered perpetual, we find an act of the 13th
and 14th of Charles II. for preventing theft and rapine. An act of the 9th of George I. for
punishing persons going armed in disguise. A clause in the act of the 6th of George II. to
prevent the breaking down the bank of any river; and another clause in the said act, to prevent
the treacherous cutting of hop-binds. Several clauses in an act of the 10th of George II. for
punishing persons setting on fire any mine, &c. The temporary part of the act of the 20th of
George II. for taking away the hereditary jurisdictions of Scotland, relating to the power
of appealing to circuit courts. Those continued were,--1. An act of the 12th of George II.
for granting liberty to carry sugar, &c, until the twenty-ninth of September, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and sixty-four, and to the end of next session of parliament. 2. An
act of the 5th of George II. to prevent frauds by bankrupts, &c., for the same period. 3. An
act of the 8th of George II. for encouraging the importation of naval stores, &c, for the same
period. 4. An act of the 19th of George II. for preventing frauds in the admeasurement of coals,
&c. until June 24, 1759; and to this was added a perpetual clause for preventing the stealing
or destroying of madder roots. 5. An act of the 9th George II. for encouraging the manufacture
of British sail-cloth until the twenty-ninth of September, one thousand seven hundred and sixty-four.
6. An act of the 4th of George II. for granting an allowance upon British-made gunpowder, for
the same period. 7, An act of the 4th of George II. for encouraging the trade of the sugar
colonies, until the twenty-ninth of September, one thousand seven hundred and sixty-one. And
8, so much of the act of the 15th and 16th of George II. to empower the importers of rum, &c,
as relates to landing it before the payment of duties, until the 29th of September, one thousand
seven hundred and sixty-four.]

[Footnote 461: Note 3 O, p. 461. Translation of the Letter written by the Duke of Brunswick
to his brother Prince Ferdinand. "Sir,--I know you too well to doubt that the situation in
which we stand at present, with respect to each other, gives you abundance of uneasiness; nor
will you doubt that it gives me equal concern. Indeed, it afflicts me greatly. Meanwhile I
could never, my dearest brother, have believed that you would be the person who should carry
away from me my eldest son. I am exceedingly mortified to find myself under the hard necessity
of telling you that this step is contrary to the law of nations, and the constitution of the
empire; and that, if you persist in it, you will disgrace your family, and bring a stain upon
your country, which you pretend to serve. The hereditary prince, my son, was at Hamburgh by
my order, and you have carried him to Stade. Could he distrust his uncle,--an uncle who hath
done so much honour to his family? Could he believe that this uncle would deprive him of liberty,
a liberty never refused to the lowest officer? I ordered him to make a tour to Holland: could
not the lowest officer have done as much? Let us suppose for a moment that my troops, among
whom he served, were to have staid with the Hanoverians, would it not have been still in my
power to give an officer leave of absence, or even leave to resign his commission? And would
you hinder your brother, the head of your family, and of such a family as ours, to exercise
this right with regard to a son, who is the hereditary prince, of whose rights and prerogatives
you cannot be ignorant? It is impossible you could have conceived such designs, without the
suggestion of others. Those who did suggest them have trampled on the rights of nature, of
nations, and of the princes of Germany; they have induced you to add to all these the most
cruel insult on a brother whom you love, and who always loved you with the warmest affection.
Would you have your brother lay his just complaints against you before the whole empire, and
all Europe? Are not your proceedings without example? What is Germany become? What are its
princes become, and our house in particular? Is it the interest of the two kings, the cause
of your country, and my cause that you pretend to support?--I repeat it, brother, that this
design could not have been framed by you. I again command my son to pursue his journey and
I cannot conceive you will give the least obstruction; if you should (which I pray God avert),
I solemnly declare that I will not be constrained by such measures, nor shall I ever forget
what I owe to myself. As to my troops, you may see what I have written on that head to the
Hanoverian ministry. The duke of Cumberland, by the convention of Closter-Seven, dismissed
them, and sent them home; the said ministry gave me notice of this convention, as a treaty
by which I was bound. The march of the troops was settled; and an incident happening, they
halted: that obstacle being removed, they were to have continued their march. The court of
Hanover will be no longer bound by the convention, while I not only accepted it upon their
word, but have also, in conformity with their instructions, negotiated at Versailles, and at
Vienna. After all these steps, they would have me contradict myself, break my word, and entirely
ruin my estate, as well as my honour. Did you ever know your brother guilty of such things?
True it is, I have, as you say, sacrificed my all; or rather, I have been sacrificed. The only
thing left me is my honour; and in the unhappy contrast of our situations, I lament both you
and myself, that it should be from you, my dear brother, I should receive the cruel advice
to give up my honour. I cannot listen to it: I cannot recede from my promise. My troops, therefore,
must return home, agreeably to what the duke of Cumberland and the Hanoverian ministry stipulated
with regard to me in the strongest manner. I am afraid that the true circumstances of things
are concealed from you. Not to detain your express too long, I shall send you, by the post,
copies of all I have written to the Hanoverian ministry. It will grieve your honest heart to
read it. I am, with a heart almost broken, yet full of tenderness for you, your, &c. "Blanckenbourg,
Nov. 27,1757."]

[Footnote 467: Note 3 P, p. 467. A detail of the cruelties committed by those barbarians cannot
be read without horror. They not only burned a great number of villages, but they ravished,
rifled, murdered, and mutilated the inhabitants, without distinction of age or sex, without
any other provocation or incitement than brutal lust and wantonness of barbarity. They even
violated the sepulchres of the dead, which have been held sacred among the most savage nations.
At Camin and Breckholtz they forced open the graves and sepulchral vaults, and stripped the
bodies of generals Schlaberndorf and Ruitz, which had been deposited there. But the collected
force of their vengeance was discharged against Custrin, the capital of the New Marche of Brandenburgh,
situated at the conflux of the Warta and the Oder, about fifteen English miles from Franckfort.
The particulars of the disaster that befel this city, are particularly related in the following
extracts from a letter written by an inhabitant and eye-witness.

"On the thirteenth of August, about three o'clock in the afternoon, a sudden report was spread
that a body of Russian hussars and cossacks appeared in sight of the little suburb. All the
people were immediately in motion, and the whole city was filled with terror, especially as
we were certainly informed that the whole Russian army was advancing from Meseric and Konigswalda,
by the way of Landsberg. A reinforcement was immediately sent to our piquet-guard, in the suburb,
amounting, by this junction, to three hundred men, who were soon attacked by the enemy, and
the skirmish lasted from four till seven o'clock in the evening. During this dispute, we could
plainly perceive, from our ramparts and church-steeple, several persons of distinction mounted
on English horses, reconnoitring our fortification through perspective glasses. They retired,
however, when our cannon began to fire: then our piquet took possession of their former post
in the suburb; and the reinforcement we had sent from the city returned, after having broken
down the bridge over the Oder. Next day count Dohna, who commanded the army near Franckfort,
sent in a reinforcement of four battalions, ten squadrons, and a small body of hussars, under
the command of lieutenant-general Scherlemmer. The hussars and a body of dragoons were added
to the piquet of the little suburb; the four battalions pitched their tents on the Anger, between
the suburbs and the fortification; and the rest of the dragoons remained in the field to cover
the long suburb. General Scherlemmer, attended by our governor, colonel Schuck, went with a
small party to observe the enemy; but were obliged to retire, and were pursued by the cossacks
to the walls of the city. Between four and five o'clock next morning the poor inhabitants were
roused from their sleep by the noise of the cannon, intermingled with the dismal shrieks and
hideous yellings of the cossacks belonging to the Russian army. Alarmed at this horrid noise,
I ascended the church-steeple, from whence I beheld the whole plain, extending from the little
suburb to the forest, covered with the enemy's troops, and our light horse, supported by the
infantry, engaged in different places with their irregulars. At eight I descried a body of
the enemy's infantry, whose van consisted of four or five thousand men, advancing towards the
vineyard, in the neighbourhood of which they had raised occasional batteries in the preceding-evening;
from these they now played on our piquet-guard and hussars, who were obliged to retire. They
then fired, en ricochet, on the tents and baggage of the four battalions encamped on the Anger,
who were also compelled to retreat. Having thus cleared the environs, they threw into the city
such a number of bombs and red-hot bullets, that by nine in the morning it was set on fire
in three different places; and, the streets being-narrow, it burned with such fury that all
our endeavours to extinguish it proved ineffectual. At this time the whole atmosphere appeared
like a shower of fiery rain and hail; and the miserable inhabitants thought of nothing but
saving their lives by running into the open fields. The whole place was filled with terror
and consternation, and resounded with the shrieks of women and children, who ran about in the
utmost distraction, exposed to the shot and bomb-shells, which, bursting, tore in pieces every
thing that stood in their way. As I led my wife, with a young child in her arms, and drove
the rest of my children and servants half naked before me, those instruments of death and devastation
fell about us like hail; but, by the mercy of God, we all escaped unhurt. Nothing could be
more melancholy and affecting than a sight of the wretched people flying in crowds, and leaving
their all behind, while they rent the sky with their lamentations. Many women of distinction
I saw without shoes and stockings, and almost without clothes, who had been roused from their
beds, and ran out naked into the streets. When my family had reached the open plain, I endeavoured
to return, and save some of my effects; but I could not force my way through a multitude of
people, thronging out at the gate, some sick and bed-ridden persons being carried on horseback
and in carriages, and others conveyed on the backs of their friends, through a most dreadful
scene of horror and desolation. A great number of families from the open country, and the defenceless
towns in Prussia and Pomerania, had come hither for shelter with their most valuable effects,
when the Russians first entered the king's territories. These, as well as the inhabitants,
are all ruined; and many, who a few days ago possessed considerable wealth, are now reduced
to the utmost indigence. The neighbouring-towns and villages were soon crowded with the people
of Custrin; the roads were filled with objects of misery; and nothing was seen but nakedness
and despair; nothing heard but the cries of hunger, fear, and distraction. For my own part,
I stayed all night at Goitz, and then proceeded for Berlin. Custrin is now a heap of ruins.
The great magazine, the governor's house, the church, the palace, the store and artillery-houses;
in a word, the old and new towns, the suburbs, and all the bridges, were reduced to ashes;
nay, after the ashes were destroyed, the piles and sterlings were burned to the water's edge.
The writings of all the colleges, together with the archives of the country, were totally consumed,
together with a prodigious magazine of corn and flour, valued at four millions of crowns. The
cannon in the arsenal were all melted; and the loaded bombs and cartridges, with a large quantity
of gunpowder, went off at once with a most horrid explosion. A great number of the inhabitants
are missing, supposed to have perished in the flames, or under the ruins of the houses, or
to have been suffocated in the subterraneous vaults and caverns, to which they had fled for safety.

Nothing could be more inhuman, or contrary to the practice of a generous enemy, than such vengeance
wreaked upon the innocent inhabitants; for the Russians did not begin to batter the fortifications
until all the rest of the place was destroyed. In the course of this campaign, the Russian
cossacks are said to have plundered and burned fourteen large towns and two hundred villages,
and wantonly butchered above two thousand defenceless women and children. Such monsters of
barbarity ought to be excluded from all the privileges of human nature, and hunted down as
wild beasts without pity or cessation. What infamy ought these powers to incur, who employ
and encourage such ruthless barbarians?]

[Footnote 468: Note 3 Q, p. 468. As very little notice was taken, in the detail published by
authority, of any part which this great man acted in the battle of Hochkirchen, and a report
was industriously circulated in this kingdom, that he was surprised in his tent, naked, and
half asleep,--we think it the duty of a candid historian to vindicate his memory and reputation
from the foul aspersion thrown by the perfidious and illiberal hand of envious malice, or else
contrived to screen some other character from the imputation of misconduct. The task we are
enabled to perform by a gentleman of candour and undoubted credit, who learned the following
particulars at Berlin from a person that was eye-witness of the whole transaction. Field-mareschal
Keith, who arrived in the camp the very day that preceded the battle, disapproved of the situation
of the Prussian army, and remonstrated to the king on that subject. In consequence of his advice,
a certain general was sent with a detachment to take possession of the heights that commanded
the village of Hochkirchcn; but by some fatality he miscarried. Mareschal Keith was not in
any tent, but lodged with prince Francis of Brunswick, in a house belonging to a Saxon major.
When the first alarm was given in the night, he instantly mounted his horse, assembled a body
of the nearest troops, and marched directly to the place that was attacked. The Austrians had
taken possession of the hill which the Prussian officer was sent to occupy, and this they fortified
with cannon; then they made themselves masters of the village in which the free companies of
Auginelli had been posted. Mareschal Keith immediately conceived the design of the Austrian
general, and knowing the importance of this place, thither directed all his efforts. He in
person led on the troops to the attack of the village, from whence he drove the enemy; but
being overpowered by numbers continually pouring down from the hills, he was obliged to retire
in his turn. He rallied his men, returned to the charge, and regained possession of the place;
being again repulsed by fresh reinforcements of the enemy, he made another effort, entered
the village a third time, and finding it untenable, ordered it to be set on fire. Thus he kept
the Austrians at bay, and maintained a desperate conflict against the flower of the Austrian
army, from four in the morning till nine, when the Prussians were formed, and began to file
off in their retreat. During the whole dispute he rallied the troops in person, charged at
their head, and exposed his life in the hottest of a dreadful fire, like a private captain
of grenadiers. He found it necessary to exert himself in this manner, the better to remove
the bad effects of the confusion that prevailed, and in order to inspirit the troops to their
utmost exertion by his voice, presence, and example. Even when dangerously wounded, at eight
in the morning, he refused to quit the field; but continued to signalize himself in the midst
of the carnage until nine, when he received a second shot in his breast, and fell speechless
into the arms of Mr. Tibay, an English volunteer, who had attended him during the whole campaign.
This gentleman, who was likewise wounded, applied to a Prussian officer for a file of men to
remove the mareschal, being uncertain whether he was entirely deprived of life. His request
was granted; but the soldiers, in advancing to the spot, were countermanded by another officer.
He afterwards spoke on the same subject to one of the Prussian generals, a German prince, as
he chanced to pass on horseback: when Mr. Tibay told him the field-mareschal was lying wounded
on the field, he asked if his wounds were mortal; and the other answering he was afraid they
were, the prince shrugged up his shoulders, and rode off without further question. The body
of this great officer, being thus shamefully abandoned, was soon stripped by the Austrian stragglers,
and lay exposed and undistinguished on the field of battle. In this situation it was perceived
by count Lasci, son of the general of that name, with whom mareschal Keith had served in Russia.
This young count had been the mareschal's pupil, and revered him as his military father, though
employed in the Austrian service. He recognised the body by the large scar of a dangerous wound,
which general Keith had received in his thigh at the siege of Oczakow, and could not help bursting
into tears to see his honoured master thus extended at his feet, a naked, lifeless, and deserted
corpse. He forthwith caused his body to be covered and interred. It was afterwards taken up,
and decently buried by the curate of Hochkirchen; and finally removed to Berlin, by order of
the king of Prussia, who bestowed upon it those funeral honours that were due to the dignified
rank and transcendent merit of the deceased; merit so universally acknowledged, that even the
Saxons lamented him as their best friend and patron, who protected them from violence and outrage,
even while he acted a principal part in subjecting them to the dominion of his sovereign.

[Footnote 479: Note 3 R, p. 479. Among other transactions that distinguish the history of Great
Britain, scarce a year glides away without producing some incident that strongly marks the
singular character of the English nation. A very extraordinary instance of this nature, relating
to the late duke of Marlborough, we shall record among the events of this year, although it
derived its origin from the latter end of the last, and cannot be properly enumerated among
those occurrences that appertain to general history. Towards the end of November, in the preceding
year, the above-mentioned nobleman received, by the post, a letter directed "To his Grace the
duke of Marlborough, with care and speed," and containing this address:

"My Lord,--As ceremony is an idle thing upon most occasions, more especially to persons in
my state of mind, I shall proceed immediately to acquaint you with the motive and end of addressing
this epistle to you, which is equally interesting to us both. You are to know, then, that my
present situation in life is such, that I should prefer annihilation to a continuance in it.
Desperate diseases require desperate remedies; and you are the man I have pitched upon, either
to make me or unmake yourself. As I never had the honour to live among the great, the tenor
of my proposals will not be very courtly; but let that be an argument to enforce a belief of
what I am now going to write. It has employed my invention for some time, to find out a method
of destroying another without exposing my own life: that I have accomplished, and defy the
law. Now, for the application of it. I am desperate, and must be provided for. You have it
in your power: it is my business to make it your inclination to serve me, which you must determine
to comply with, by procuring me a genteel support for my life, or your own will be at a period
before this session of parliament is over. I have more motives than one for singling you out
upon this occasion; and I give you this fair warning, because the means I shall make use of
are too fatal to be eluded by the power of physic. If you think this of any consequence, you
will not fail to meet the author on Sunday next, at ten in the morning, or on Monday (if the
weather should be rainy on Sunday), near the first tree beyond the stile in Hyde-Park, in the
foot-walk to Kensington. Secrecy and compliance may preserve you from a double danger of this
sort, as there is a certain part of the world where your death has more than been wished for
upon other motives. I know the world too well to trust this secret in any breast but my own.
A few days determine me your friend or enemy. "FELTON.

"You will apprehend that I mean you should be alone; and depend upon it, that a discovery of
any artifice in this affair will be fatal to you. My safety is insured by my silence, for confession
only can condemn me."

The duke, in compliance with this strange remonstrance, appeared at the time and place appointed,
on horseback and alone, with pistols before him, and the star of his order displayed, that
he might be the more easily known. He had likewise taken the precaution of engaging a friend
to attend in the Park, at such a distance, however, as scarce to be observable. He continued
some time on the spot without seeing any person he could suspect of having wrote the letter,
and then rode away: but chancing to turn his head when he reached Hyde-Park-Corner, he perceived
a man standing at the bridge, and looking at the water, within twenty yards of the tree which
was described in the letter. He forthwith rode back at a gentle pace, and, passing by the person,
expected to be addressed: but as no advance of this kind was made, he, in repassing, bowed
to the stranger, and asked if he had not something to communicate? The man replying, "No, I
don't know you;" the duke told him his name, adding, "Now you know me, I imagine you have something
to say to me." But he still answered in the negative, and the duke rode home. In a day or two
after this transaction, another letter was brought to him, couched in the following terms:

"My Lord,--You receive this as an acknowledgment of your punctuality as to the time and place
of meeting on Sunday last, though it was owing to you it answered no purpose. The pageantry
of being armed, and the ensign of your order, were useless and too conspicuous. You needed
no attendant, the place was not calculated for mischief, nor was any intended. If you walk
in the west aisle of Westminster Abbey, towards eleven o'clock on Sunday next, your sagacity
will point the person whom you will address, by asking his company to take a turn or two with
you. You will not fail, on inquiry, to be acquainted with the name and place of abode. According
to which direction you will please to send two or three hundred pound bank-notes the next day
by the penny post. Exert not your curiosity too early; it is in your power to make me grateful
on certain terms. I have friends who are faithful, but they do not bark before they bite.--"I
am, &c, F."

The duke, determining if possible to unveil this mystery, repaired to the Abbey at the time
prescribed; and, after having walked up and down for five or six minutes, saw the very same
person to whom he had spoken in Hyde-Park, enter the Abbey with another man of a creditable
appearance. This last, after they had viewed some of the monuments, went into the choir, and
the other turning back advanced towards the duke, who, accosting him, asked him if he had anything
to say to him," or any commands for him? He replied, "No, my lord. I have not."--"Sure you
have," said the duke; but he persisted in his denial. Then the duke, leaving him, took several
turns in the aisle, while the stranger walked on the other side. But nothing further passed
between them; and although the duke had provided several persons in disguise to apprehend the
delinquent, he forebore giving the signal, that, notwithstanding appearances, he might run
no risk of injuring an innocent person. Not long after this second disappointment he received
a third letter, to the following effect:

"My Lord,--I am fully convinced you had a companion on Sunday: I interpret it as owing to the
weakness of human nature; but such proceeding is far from being ingenuous, and may produce
bad effects, whilst it is impossible to answer the end proposed. You will see me again soon,
as it were by accident, and may easily find where I go to; in consequence of which, by being
sent to, I shall wait on your grace, but expect to be quite alone, and to converse in whispers;
you will likewise give your honour, upon meeting, that no part of the conversation shall transpire.
These and the former terms complied with ensure your safety; my revenge, in case of non-compliance
(or any scheme to expose me), will be slower, but not less sure; and strong suspicion the utmost
that can possibly ensue upon it, while the chances would be tenfold against you. You will possibly
be in doubt after the meeting, but it is quite necessary the outside should be a mask to the
in. The family of the Bloods is not extinct, though they are not in my scheme."

The expression, "You will see me again soon, as it were by accident," plainly pointed at the
person to whom he had spoke in the park and in the Abbey; nevertheless, he saw him not again,
nor did he hear anything further of the affair for two months, at the expiration of which the
post brought him the following letter:

"May it please your Grace,--I have reason to believe, that the son of one Barnard, a surveyor,
in Abingdon-buildings, Westminster, is acquainted with some secrets that nearly concern your
safety: his father is now out of town, which will give you an opportunity of questioning him
more privately; it would be useless to your grace, as well as dangerous to me, to appear more
publicly in this affair. "Your sincere friend, "ANONYMOUS. "He frequently goes to Storey's-gate
coffee-house."

In about a week after this intimation was received, the duke sent a person to the coffee-house,
to inquire for Mr. Barnard, and tell him he would be glad to speak to him. The message was
delivered, and Barnard declared he would wait upon his grace next Thursday, at half an hour
after ten in the morning. He was punctual to his appointment, and no sooner appeared than the
duke recognised him to be the person to whom he had spoke in the Park and the Abbey. Having
conducted him into an apartment, and shut the door, he asked, as before, if he had anything
to communicate: and was answered, as formerly, in the negative. Then the duke repeated every
circumstance of this strange transaction; to which Barnard listened with attention and surprise,
yet without exhibiting any marks of conscious guilt or confusion. The duke observing that it
was matter of astonishment to see letters of such import written with the correctness of a
scholar; the other replied, that a man might be very poor and very learned at the same time.
When he saw the fourth letter, in which his name was mentioned, with the circumstance of his
father's absence, he said, "If is very odd, my father was then out of town." An expression
the more remarkable, as the letter was without date, and he could not, as an innocent man,
be supposed to know at what time it was written. The duke having made him acquainted with the
particulars, told him, that if he was innocent he ought to use his endeavours-to detect the
writer of the letters, especially of the last, in which he was expressely named. To this admonition
he returned no other answer but a smile, and then withdrew.--He was afterwards taken into custody,
and tried at the Old Bailey,for sending a threatening letter, contrary to the statute; but
no evidence could be found to prove the letters were of his handwriting: nor did any presumption
appear against him, except his being in Hyde-Park, and in Westminster Abbey, at the time and
place appointed in the first two letters. On the other hand, Mr. Barnard proved, that, on the
Sunday when he saw the duke in Hyde-Park, he was on his way to Kensington on particular business,
by his father's order, signified to him that very morning: that he accordingly went thither,
and dined with his uncle, in company with several other persons, to whom he related what had
passed between the duke of Marlborough and him in the Park: that his being afterwards in Westminster
Abbey was the effect of mere accident: that Mr. James Greenwood, his kinsman, who had lain
that preceding night at his father's house, desired him to dress himself, that they might walk
together in the Park; and he did not comply with his request till after much solicitation:
that he proposed to enter the Park without passing through the Abbey, but was prevailed upon
by Mr. Greenwood, who expressed a desire of seeing the newly-erected monument of general Hardgrave:
that as he had formerly communicated to his friend the strange circumstance of the duke's speaking
to him in Hyde-park, Mr. Greenwood no sooner saw that nobleman in the Abbey, than he gave notice
to Mr. Barnard, who was very short-sighted; and that from his passing them several times, concluding
he wanted to speak with Mr. Barnard alone, he quitted him and retired into the choir, that
they might commune together without interruption. It likewise appeared, from undoubted evidence,
that Barnard had often mentioned openly to his friends and acquaintance, the circumstance of
what passed between him and the duke in the Park and in the Abbey; that his father was a man
of unblemished reputation, and in affluent circumstances; that he himself was never reduced
to any want, or such exigence as might impel him to any desperate methods of obtaining money;
that his fidelity had been often tried, and his life always irreproachable. For these reasons
he was acquitted of the crime laid to his charge, and the mystery remains to this day undiscovered.

After all, the author of the letters does not seem to have had any real design to extort money,
because the scheme was very ill calculated for that purpose; and indeed could not possibly
take effect without the most imminent risk of detection. Perhaps his aim was nothing more than
to gratify a petulance and peculiarity of humour, by alarming the duke, exciting the curiosity
of the public, puzzling the multitude, and giving rise to a thousand ridiculous conjectures.
If anything more was intended, and the duke earnestly desired to know the extent of the scheme,
he might, when he closeted the person suspected, have encouraged him to a declaration, by promising
inviolable secrecy on his word and honour, in which any man would have confided as a sacred
obligation. On the whole, it is surprising that the death of the duke, which happened in the
course of this year, was never attributed to the secret practices of this incendiary correspondent,
who had given him to understand that his vengeance, though slow, would not be the less certain.]

Footnote 485: Note 3 S, p. 485. The next bill that fell under the cognizance of the house,
related to a law transaction, and was suggested by a petition presented in the name of the
sheriffs, and grantees of post-fines under the crown of England. They enumerated and explained
the difficulties under which they laboured, in raising and collecting these fines within the
respective counties; particularly when the estate conveyed by fine was no more than a right
of reversion, in which case they could not possibly levy the post-fine, unless the purchaser
should obtain possession within the term of the sheriffalty, or pay it of his own free will,
as they could not distrain while the lands were in possession of the donee. They therefore
proposed a method for raising these post-fines, by a proper officer to be appointed for that
purpose; and prayed that leave might be given to bring in a bill accordingly. This petition
was seconded by a message from the king, importing, that his majesty, as far as his interest
was concerned, gave his consent that the house might act in this affair as they should think
propel.

The commons, in a committee of the whole house, having taken into consideration the merits
of the petition, formed several resolutions; upon which a bill was founded for the more regular
and easy collecting, accounting for, and paying of post-fines, which should bo due to the crown,
or to the grantees thereof under the crown, and for the ease of sheriffs in respect to the
same. Before it passed into a law, however, it was opposed by a petition in favour of one William
Daw, a lunatic, clerk of the king's silver office, alleging, that should the bill pass, it
would deprive the said Daw and his successors of an ancient fee belonging to his office, on
searches made for post-fines by the under sheriffs of the several counties; therefore, praying
that such provision might be made for the said lunatic as to the house should seem just and
reasonable. This, and divers other petitions respecting the bill being discussed in the committee,
it underwent several amendments, and was enacted into a law; the particulars of which cannot
be properly understood without a previous explanation of this method of conveying estates;
a subject obscure in itself, founded upon a seeming subterfuge of law, scarce reconcileable
with the dictates of common sense, and consequently improper for the pen of an historian.]

[Footnote 490: Note 3 T, p. 490. As the curiosity of the reader may be interested in these
resolutions, we shall here insert them for his satisfaction. The committee resolved, that the
ell ought to contain one yard and one quarter, according to the yard mentioned in the third
resolution of the former committee upon the subject of weights and measures; that the pole,
or perch, should contain in length five such yards and a half; the furlong two hundred and
twenty; and the mile one thousand seven hundred and sixty: that the superficial perch should
contain thirty square yards and a quarter; the rood one thousand two hundred and ten; and the
acre four thousand eight hundred and forty: that according to the fourth, fifth, and sixth
resolutions of the former committee, upon the subject of weights and measures, agreed to by
the house on the second day of June in the preceding year, the quart ought to contain seventy
cubical inches and one half; the pint thirty-five and one quarter; the peck five hundred and
sixty-four; and the bushel two thousand two hundred and fifty-six. That the several parts of
the pound, mentioned in the eighth resolution of the former committee, examined and adjusted
in presence of this committee,--viz. the half pound or six ounces, quarter of a pound or three
ounces, two ounces, one ounce, two half ounces, the five-penny weight, three-penny weight,
two-penny weight, and one-penny weight, the twelve grains, six grains, three grains, two grains,
and two of one grain each,--ought to be the models of the several parts of the said pound,
and to be used for sizing or adjusting weights for the future. That all weights exceeding a
pound should be of brass, copper, bell-metal, or cast-iron; and all those of cast-iron should
be made in the form, and with a handle of hammered iron, such as the pattern herewith produced,
having the mark of the weight cast in the iron; and all the weights of a pound, or under, should
be of gold, silver, brass, copper, or bell-metal. That all weights of cast-iron should have
the initial letters of the name of the maker upon the upper bar of the handle; and all other
weights should have the same, together with the mark of the weight, according to this standard,
upon some convenient part thereof. That the yard, mentioned in the second resolution of the
former committee upon the subject of weights and measures, agreed to by the house in the last
session, being the standard of length, and the pound mentioned in the eighth resolution, being
the standard of weight, ought to be deposited in the court of the receipt of the exchequer,
and the chief baron, and the seal of office of the chamberlain of the exchequer, and not to
be opened but by the order and in the presence of the chancellor of the exchequer and chief
baron for the time being. That the most effectual means to ascertain uniformity in measures
of length and weight, to be used throughout the realm, would he to appoint certain persons,
at one particular office, with clerks and workmen under them, for the purpose only of fixing
and adjusting, for the use of the subjects, all measures of length, and all weights, being
parts, multiples, or certain proportions of the standards to be used for the future. That a
model or pattern of the said standard yard, mentioned in the second resolution of the former
committee, and now in the custody of the clerk of the house, and a model or pattern of the
standard pound, mentioned in the eighth resolution of that committee, together with models
or patterns of the parts of the said pound now presented to the house, and also of the multiples
of the said pound, mentioned in this report (when the same are adjusted), should be kept in
the said office, in custody of the said persons to be appointed for sizing weights and measures,
under the seal of the chief baron of the exchequer for the time being; to be opened only by
order of the said chief baron, in his presence, or the presence of one of the barons of the
exchequer, on the application of the said persons, for the purpose of correcting and adjusting,
as occasion should require, the patterns or models used at the said office, for sizing measures
of length and weight delivered out to the subjects. That models or patterns of the said standard
yard and standard pound aforesaid, and also models or patterns of the parts and multiples aforesaid
of the said pound, should be lodged in the said office for the sizing of such measures of length
or weight, as, being parts, multiples, or proportions of the said standards, should hereafter
he required by any of his majesty's subjects. That all measures of length and weight, sized
at the said office, should be marked in some convenient part thereof, with such marks as should
be thought expedient, to show the identity of the measures and weights sized at the said office,
and to discover any frauds that may be committed therein. That the said office should he kept
within a convenient distance of the court of exchequer at Westminster; and all the measures
of length and weight, within a certain distance of London, should be corrected and re-assized,
as occasion should require, at the said office. That, in order to enforce the uniformity in
weights and measures to be used for the future, all persons appointed by the crown to act as
justices of the peace in any county, city, or town corporate, being respectively counties within
themselves, throughout the realm, should be empowered to hear and determine, and put the law
in execution, in respect to weights and measures only, without any of them being obliged to
sue out a dedimus, or to act in any other matter; and the said commissioners should be empowered
to sue, imprison, inflict, or mitigate such penalties as should be thought proper; and have
such other authorities as should be necessary for compelling the use of weights and measures,
agreeably to the aforesaid standards. The models or patterns of the said standard yard and
pound, and of the parts and multiples thereof, before-mentioned, should be distributed in each
county, in such a manner as to be readily used for evidence in all eases where measures and
weights should be questioned before the said commissioners, and for adjusting the same in a
proper manner.]

[Footnote 504: Note 3 U, p. 504. The letter was to this effect: To their excellencies Messrs.
Hopson and Moore, general officers of his Britannic Majesty at Basseterre. "Gentlemen--I have
received the letter which your excellencies have done me the honour to write, of the twenty-fifth.
You make me proposals which could arise from nothing but the facility with which you have got
possession of the little town and citadel of Basseterre; for otherwise you ought to do me the
justice to believe they could not be received. You have strength sufficient to subdue the exteriors
of the island; but with respect to the interiors, the match between us is equal. As to the
consequences that may attend my refusal, I am persuaded they will be no other than such as
are prescribed by the laws of war. Should we be disappointed in this particular, we have a
master powerful enough to revenge any injury we may sustain. "I am, with respect, "Gentlemen,
"Your most obedient servant, "Nadau D'Etreil." It is pretty remarkable, that the apprehension
of cruel usage from the English, who are undoubtedly the most generous and humane enemies under
the sun, not only prevailed among the common French soldiery throughout this whole war, but
even infected officers of distinction, who ought to have been exempted from these prejudices,
by a better acquaintance with life, and more liberal turn of thinking.]

[Footnote 505: Note 3 X, p. 505. The reasons assigned by the commodore for his conduct in this
particular are these:--The bay of Dominique was the only place in which he could rendezvous
and unite his squadron. Here he refreshed his men, who were grown sickly in consequence of
subsisting on salt provisions. Here he supplied his ships with plenty of fresh water. Here
he had intercourse once or twice every day with general Barrington, by means of small vessels
which passed and repassed from one island to the other. By remaining in this situation, he
likewise maintained a communication with the English Leeward Islands, which being in a defenceless
condition, their inhabitants were constantly soliciting the commodore's protection; and here
he supported the army, the commander of which was unwilling that he should remove to a greater
distance. Had he sailed to Port-Royal, he would have found the enemy's squadron so disposed,
that he could not have attacked them, unless M. de Bompart had been inclined to hazard an action.
Had he anchored in the bay, all his cruisers must have been employed in conveying provisions
and stores to the squadron. There he could not have procured either fresh provisions or water;
nor could he have had any communication with, or intelligence from, the army in the Leeward
Islands, in less than eight or ten days.]

[Footnote 511: Note 3 Y, p. 511. The following anecdote is so remarkable, and tends so much
to the honour of the British soldiery, that we insert it without fear of the reader's disapprobation:--Captain
Ochterlony and ensign Peyton belonged to the regiment of brigadier-general Mouckton. They were
nearly of an age, which did not exceed thirty: the first was a North Briton, the other a native
of Ireland. Both were agreeable in person, and unblemished in character, and connected together
by the ties of mutual friendship and esteem. On the day that preceded the battle, captain Ochterlony
had been obliged to fight a duel with a German officer, in which, though he wounded and disarmed
his antagonist, yet he himself received a dangerous hurt under the right arm, in consequence
of which his friends insisted on his remaining in camp during the action of the next day, but
his spirit was too great to comply with this remonstrance. He declared it should never be said
that a scratch, received in a private rencounter, had prevented him from doing his duty, when
his country required his service; and he took the field with a fusil in his hand, though he
was hardly able to carry his arms. In leading up his men to the enemy's intrenchment, he was
shot through the lungs with a musquet ball, an accident which obliged him to part with his
fusil: but he still continued advancing; until, by the loss of blood, he became too weak to
proceed farther. About the same time Mr. Peyton was lamed by a shot, which shattered the small
hone of his left leg. The soldiers, in their retreat, earnestly begged, with tears in their
eyes, that captain Ochterlony would allow them to carry him and the ensign off the field. But
he was so bigoted to a severe point of honour, that he would not quit the ground, though he
desired they would take care of his ensign. Mr. Peyton, with a generous disdain, rejected their
good offices, declaring, that he would not leave his captain in such a situation; and in a
little time they remained the sole survivors of that part of the field.

Captain Ochterlony sat down by his friend; and, as they expected nothing but immediate death,
they took leave of each other. Yet they were not altogether abandoned by the hope of being
protected as prisoners: for the captain, seeing a French soldier with two Indians approach,
started up, and accosting them in the French language, which he spoke perfectly well, expressed
his expectation that they would treat him and his companion as officers, prisoners, and gentlemen.
The two Indians seemed to be entirely under the conduct of the Frenchman, who coming up to
Mr. Peyton, as he sat on the ground, snatched his laced hat from his head, and robbed the captain
of his watch and money. This outrage was a signal to the Indians for murder and pillage. One
of them, clubbing his firelock, struck at him behind, with a view to knock him down; but the
blow missing his head, took place upon his shoulder. At the same instant the other Indian poured
his shot into the breast of this unfortunate young gentleman; who cried out, "Oh, Peyton, the
villain has shot me." Not yet satisfied with cruelty, the barbarian sprung upon him, and stabbed
him in the belly with his scalping-knife. The captain having parted with his fusil, had no
weapon for his defence, as none of the officers wore swords in the action. The three ruffians,
finding him still alive, endeavoured to strangle him with his own sash; and he was now upon
his knees, struggling against them with surprising exertion. Mr. Peyton, at this juncture,
having a double-barrelled musket in his hand, and seeing the distress of his friend, fired
at one of the Indians, who dropped dead upon the spot. The other thinking the ensign would
now be an easy prey, advanced towards him; and Mr. Peyton, having taken good aim at the distance
of four yards, discharged his piece the second time, but it seemed to take no effect. The savage
fired in his turn, and wounded the ensign in his shoulder; then, rushing upon him, thrust his
bayonet through his body. He repeated the blow, which Mr. Peyton attempting to parry, received
another wound in his left hand: nevertheless, he seized the Indian's musket with the same hand,
pulled him forwards, and with his right drawing a dagger which hung by his side, plunged it
in the barbarian's side. A violent struggle ensued: but at length Mr. Peyton was uppermost;
and, with repeated strokes of his dagger, killed his antagonist outright. Here he was seized
with an unaccountable emotion of curiosity, to know whether his shot had taken place on the
body of the Indian: he accordingly turned him up; and, stripping off his blanket, perceived
that the ball had penetrated quite through the cavity of the breast. Having thus obtained a
dear-bought victory, he started up on one leg; and saw captain Ochterlony standing at the distance
of sixty yards, close by the enemy's breastwork, with the French soldier attending him. Mr.
Peyton then called aloud,--"Captain Ochterlony, I am glad to see you have at last got under
protection. Beware of that villain, who is more barbarous than the savages. God bless you,
my dear captain! I see a party of Indians coming this way, and expect to be murdered immediately."
A number of those barbarians had for some time been employed on the left, in scalping and pillaging
the dying and the dead that were left upon the field of battle; and above thirty of them were
in full march to destroy Mr. Peyton. This gentleman knew he had no mercy to expect; for, should
his life be spared for the present, they would have afterwards insisted upon sacrificing him
to the manes of their brethren whom he had slain; and in that case he would have been put to
death by the most excruciating tortures. Full of this idea, he snatched up his musket, and,
notwithstanding his broken leg, ran about forty yards without halting: feeling himself now
totally disabled, and incapable of proceeding one step farther, he loaded his piece, and presented
it to the two foremost Indians, who stood aloof, waiting to be joined by their fellows; while
the French, from their breastworks, kept up a continual fire of cannon and small arms upon
this poor solitary and maimed gentleman. In this uncomfortable situation he stood, when he
discerned at a distance a Highland officer, with a party of his men, skirting the plain towards
the field of battle. He forthwith waved his hand in signal of distress, and being perceived
by the officer, he detached three of his men to his assistance. These brave fellows hastened
to him through the midst of a terrible fire, and one of them bore him off on his shoulders.
The Highland officer was captain Macdonald of colonel Frasor's battalion; who, understanding
that a young gentleman, his kinsman, had dropped on the field of battle, had put himself at
the head of this party, with which he penetrated to the middle of the field, drove a considerable
number of the French and Indians before him, and finding his relation still unscalped, carried
him off in triumph. Poor captain Ochterlony was conveyed to Quebec, where in a few days he
died of his wounds. After the reduction of that place, the French surgeons who attended him
declared, that in all probability he would have recovered of the two shots he had received
in his breast, had he not been mortally wounded in the belly by the Indian's scalping-knife.

As this very remarkable scene was acted in sight of both armies, general Townshend, in the
sequel, expostulated with the French officers upon the inhumanity of keeping up such a severe
fire against two wounded gentlemen who were disabled, and destitute of all hope of escaping.
They answered that the fire was not made by the regulars, but by the Canadians and savages,
whom it was not in the power of discipline to restrain.]

[Footnote 513: Note 3 Z, p. 513. How far the success of this attempt depended upon accident,
may be conceived from the following particulars:--In the twilight, two French deserters were
carried on board a ship of war, commanded by captain Smith, and lying at anchor near the north
shore. They told him that the garrison of Quebec expected that night to receive a convoy of
provisions, sent down the river in boats from the detachment above, commanded by M. de Bouganville.
These deserters, standing upon deck, and perceiving the English boats with the troops gliding
down the river in the dark, began to shout and make a noise, declaring they were part of the
expected convoy, captain Smith, who was ignorant of general Wolfe's design, believing their
affirmation, had actually given orders to point the guns at the British troops; when the general,
perceiving a commotion on board, rowed alongside in person and prevented the discharge, which
would have alarmed the town, and entirely frustrated the attempt.

The French had posted sentries along shore, to challenge boats and vessels, and give the alarm
occasionally. The first boat that contained the English troops being questioned accordingly,
a captain of Eraser's regiment, who had served in Holland, and who was perfectly well acquainted
with the French language and customs, answered without hesitation to Qui vit? which is their
challenging word, La France: nor was he at a loss to answer the second question, which was
much more particular and difficult. When the sentinel demanded a quell regiment? to what regiment?
the captain replied, De la Reine; which he knew, by accident, to be one of those that composed
the body commanded by Bougainville. The soldier took it for granted this was the expected convoy;
and saying Passe, allowed all the boats to proceed without further question. In the same manner
the other sentries were deceived; though one, more wary than the rest, came running down to
the water's edge, and called, "Pourquoi est ce que vous ne parlez plus haut? Why don't you
speak with an audible voice?" To this interrogation, which implied doubt, the captain answered,
with admirable presence of mind, in a soft tone of voice, "Tai toi! nous serons entendues!Hush!
we shall be overheard and discovered!" Thus cautioned, the sentry retired without further altercation.
The midshipman who piloted the first boat, passing by the landing place in the dark, the same
captain, who knew it from his having been posted formerly with his company on the other side
of the river, insisted on the pilot's being mistaken; and commanded the rowers to put ashore
in the proper place, or at least very near it.

