O'Connell commenced his labors for emancipation with the strong conviction that nothing short
of the united exertions of the Irish people could overthrow the power of the existing government,
and that a union of action could only be obtained by the establishment of something like equality
between the different religious parties. Discarding all other than peaceful means for the accomplishment
of his purpose, he placed himself and his followers beyond the cognizance of unjust and oppressive
laws.  Wherever he poured the oil of his eloquence upon the maddened spirits of his wronged
and insulted countrymen, the mercenary soldiery found no longer an excuse for violence; and
calm, firm, and united, the Catholic Association remained secure in the moral strength of its
pure and peaceful purpose, amid the bayonets of a Tory administration.  His influence was felt
in all parts of the island.  Wherever an unlawful association existed, his great legal knowledge
enabled him at once to detect its character, and, by urging its dissolution, to snatch its
deluded members from the ready fangs of their enemies.  In his presence the Catholic and the
Protestant shook hands together, and the wild Irish clansman forgot his feuds.  He taught the
party in power, and who trembled at the dangers around them, that security and peace could
only be obtained by justice and kindness.  He entreated his oppressed Catholic brethren to
lay aside their weapons, and with pure hearts and naked hands to stand firmly together in the
calm but determined energy of men, too humane for deeds of violence, yet too mighty for the
patient endurance of wrong.

The spirit of the olden time was awakened, of the day when Flood thundered and Curran lightened;
the light which shone for a moment in the darkness of Ireland's century of wrong burned upwards
clearly and steadily from all its ancient altars.  Shoulder to shoulder gathered around him
the patriot spirits of his nation,--men unbribed by the golden spoils of governmental patronage
Shiel with his ardent eloquence, O'Dwyer and Walsh, and Grattan and O'Connor, and Steel, the
Protestant agitator, wearing around him the emblem of national reconciliation, of the reunion
of Catholic and Protestant,--the sash of blended orange and green, soiled and defaced by his
patriotic errands, stained with the smoke of cabins, and the night rains and rust of weapons,
and the mountain mist, and the droppings of the wild woods of Clare.  He united in one mighty
and resistless mass the broken and discordant factions, whose desultory struggles against tyranny
had hitherto only added strength to its fetters, and infused into that mass his own lofty principles
of action, until the solemn tones of expostulation and entreaty, bursting at once from the
full heart of Ireland, were caught up by England and echoed back from Scotland, and the language
of justice and humanity was wrung from the reluctant lips of the cold and remorseless oppressor
of his native land, at once its disgrace and glory,--the conqueror of Napoleon; and, in the
words of his own Curran, the chains of the Catholic fell from around him, and he stood forth
redeemed and disenthralled by the irresistible genius of Universal Emancipation.

On the passage of the bill for Catholic emancipation, O'Connell took his seat in the British
Parliament.  The eyes of millions were upon him. Ireland--betrayed so often by those in whom
she had placed her confidence; brooding in sorrowful remembrance over the noble names and brilliant
reputations sullied by treachery and corruption, the long and dark catalogue of her recreant
sons, who, allured by British gold and British patronage, had sacrificed on the altar of their
ambition Irish pride and Irish independence, and lifted their parricidal arms against their
sorrowing mother, "crownless and voiceless in her woe"--now hung with breathless eagerness
over the ordeal to which her last great champion was subjected.

The crisis in O'Connell's destiny had come.

The glitter of the golden bribe was in his eye; the sound of titled magnificence was in his
ear; the choice was before him to sit high among the honorable, the titled, and the powerful,
or to take his humble seat in the hall of St. Stephen's as the Irish demagogue, the agitator,
the Kerry representative.  He did not hesitate in his choice.  On the first occasion that offered
he told the story of Ireland's wrongs, and demanded justice in the name of his suffering constituents.
He had put his hand to the plough of reform, and he could not relinquish his hold, for his
heart was with it.

Determined to give the Whig administration no excuse for neglecting the redress of Irish grievances,
he entered heart and soul into the great measure of English reform, and his zeal, tact, and
eloquence contributed not a little to its success.  Yet even his friends speak of his first
efforts in the House of Commons as failures.  The Irish accent; the harsh avowal of purposes
smacking of rebellion; the eccentricities and flowery luxuriance of an eloquence nursed in
the fervid atmosphere of Ireland suddenly transplanted to the cold and commonplace one of St.
Stephen's; the great and illiberal prejudices against him scarcely abated from what they were
when, as the member from Clare, he was mobbed on his way to London, for a time opposed a barrier
to the influence of his talents and patriotism.  But he triumphed at last: the mob-orator of
Clare and Kerry, the declaimer in the Dublin Rooms of the Political and Trades' Union, became
one of the most attractive and popular speakers of the British Parliament; one whose aid has
been courted and whose rebuke has been feared by the ablest of England's representatives. 
Amid the sneers of derision and the clamor of hate and prejudice he has triumphed,--on that
very arena so fatal to Irish eloquence and Irish fame, where even Grattan failed to sustain
himself, and the impetuous spirit of Flood was stricken down.

No subject in which Ireland was not directly interested has received a greater share of O'Connell's
attention than that of the abolition of colonial slavery.  Utterly detesting tyranny of all
kinds, he poured forth his eloquent soul in stern reprobation of a system full at once of pride
and misery and oppression, and darkened with blood.  His speech on the motion of Thomas Fowell
Buxton for the immediate emancipation of the slaves gave a new tone to the discussion of the
question.  He entered into no petty pecuniary details; no miserable computation of the shillings
and pence vested in beings fashioned in the image of God.  He did not talk of the expediency
of continuing the evil because it had grown monstrous.  To use his own words, he considered
"slavery a crime to be abolished; not merely an evil to be palliated."  He left Sir Robert
Peel and the Tories to eulogize the characters and defend the interests of the planters, in
common with those of a tithe-reaping priesthood, building their houses by oppression and their
chambers by wrong, and spoke of the negro's interest, the negro's claim to justice; demanding
sympathy for the plundered as well as the plunderers, for the slave as well as his master.
He trampled as dust under his feet the blasphemy that obedience to the law of eternal justice
is a principle to be acknowledged in theory only, because unsafe in practice.  He would, he
said, enter into no compromise with slavery.  He cared not what cast or creed or color it might
assume, whether personal or political, intellectual or spiritual; he was for its total, immediate
abolition.  He was for justice,--justice in the name of humanity and according to the righteous
law of the living God.

