During the latter part of the afternoon we cooled our roasting interiors with ice-cold water
from clear streams, the only really satisfying water we had tasted since we left home, for
at the hotels on the continent they merely give you a tumbler of ice to soak your water in,
and that only modifies its hotness, doesn't make it cold. Water can only be made cold enough
for summer comfort by being prepared in a refrigerator or a closed ice-pitcher. Europeans say
ice-water impairs digestion. How do they know?--they never drink any.

At ten minutes past six we reached the Kaltbad station, where there is a spacious hotel with
great verandas which command a majestic expanse of lake and mountain scenery. We were pretty
well fagged out, now, but as we did not wish to miss the Alpine sunrise, we got through our
dinner as quickly as possible and hurried off to bed. It was unspeakably comfortable to stretch
our weary limbs between the cool, damp sheets. And how we did sleep!--for there is no opiate
like Alpine pedestrianism.

In the morning we both awoke and leaped out of bed at the same instant and ran and stripped
aside the window-curtains; but we suffered a bitter disappointment again: it was already half
past three in the afternoon.

We dressed sullenly and in ill spirits, each accusing the other of oversleeping. Harris said
if we had brought the courier along, as we ought to have done, we should not have missed these
sunrises. I said he knew very well that one of us would have to sit up and wake the courier;
and I added that we were having trouble enough to take care of ourselves, on this climb, without
having to take care of a courier besides.

During breakfast our spirits came up a little, since we found by this guide-book that in the
hotels on the summit the tourist is not left to trust to luck for his sunrise, but is roused
betimes by a man who goes through the halls with a great Alpine horn, blowing blasts that would
raise the dead. And there was another consoling thing: the guide-book said that up there on
the summit the guests did not wait to dress much, but seized a red bed blanket and sailed out
arrayed like an Indian. This was good; this would be romantic; two hundred and fifty people
grouped on the windy summit, with their hair flying and their red blankets flapping, in the
solemn presence of the coming sun, would be a striking and memorable spectacle. So it was good
luck, not ill luck, that we had missed those other sunrises.

We were informed by the guide-book that we were now 3,228 feet above the level of the lake--therefore
full two-thirds of our journey had been accomplished. We got away at a quarter past four P.M.;
a hundred yards above the hotel the railway divided; one track went straight up the steep hill,
the other one turned square off to the right, with a very slight grade. We took the latter,
and followed it more than a mile, turned a rocky corner, and came in sight of a handsome new
hotel. If we had gone on, we should have arrived at the summit, but Harris preferred to ask
a lot of questions--as usual, of a man who didn't know anything--and he told us to go back
and follow the other route. We did so. We could ill afford this loss of time.

We climbed and climbed; and we kept on climbing; we reached about forty summits, but there
was always another one just ahead. It came on to rain, and it rained in dead earnest. We were
soaked through and it was bitter cold. Next a smoky fog of clouds covered the whole region
densely, and we took to the railway-ties to keep from getting lost. Sometimes we slopped along
in a narrow path on the left-hand side of the track, but by and by when the fog blew aside
a little and we saw that we were treading the rampart of a precipice and that our left elbows
were projecting over a perfectly boundless and bottomless vacancy, we gasped, and jumped for
the ties again.

The night shut down, dark and drizzly and cold. About eight in the evening the fog lifted and
showed us a well-worn path which led up a very steep rise to the left. We took it, and as soon
as we had got far enough from the railway to render the finding it again an impossibility,
the fog shut down on us once more.

We were in a bleak, unsheltered place, now, and had to trudge right along, in order to keep
warm, though we rather expected to go over a precipice, sooner or later. About nine o'clock
we made an important discovery--that we were not in any path. We groped around a while on our
hands and knees, but we could not find it; so we sat down in the mud and the wet scant grass
to wait.

We were terrified into this by being suddenly confronted with a vast body which showed itself
vaguely for an instant and in the next instant was smothered in the fog again. It was really
the hotel we were after, monstrously magnified by the fog, but we took it for the face of a
precipice, and decided not to try to claw up it.

We sat there an hour, with chattering teeth and quivering bodies, and quarreled over all sorts
of trifles, but gave most of our attention to abusing each other for the stupidity of deserting
the railway-track. We sat with our backs to the precipice, because what little wind there was
came from that quarter. At some time or other the fog thinned a little; we did not know when,
for we were facing the empty universe and the thinness could not show; but at last Harris happened
to look around, and there stood a huge, dim, spectral hotel where the precipice had been. One
could faintly discern the windows and chimneys, and a dull blur of lights. Our first emotion
was deep, unutterable gratitude, our next was a foolish rage, born of the suspicion that possibly
the hotel had been visible three-quarters of an hour while we sat there in those cold puddles
quarreling.

Yes, it was the Rigi-Kulm hotel--the one that occupies the extreme summit, and whose remote
little sparkle of lights we had often seen glinting high aloft among the stars from our balcony
away down yonder in Lucerne. The crusty portier and the crusty clerks gave us the surly reception
which their kind deal out in prosperous times, but by mollifying them with an extra display
of obsequiousness and servility we finally got them to show us to the room which our boy had
engaged for us.

We got into some dry clothing, and while our supper was preparing we loafed forsakenly through
a couple of vast cavernous drawing-rooms, one of which had a stove in it. This stove was in
a corner, and densely walled around with people. We could not get near the fire, so we moved
at large in the artic spaces, among a multitude of people who sat silent, smileless, forlorn,
and shivering--thinking what fools they were to come, perhaps. There were some Americans and
some Germans, but one could see that the great majority were English.

We lounged into an apartment where there was a great crowd, to see what was going on. It was
a memento-magazine. The tourists were eagerly buying all sorts and styles of paper-cutters,
marked "Souvenir of the Rigi," with handles made of the little curved horn of the ostensible
chamois; there were all manner of wooden goblets and such things, similarly marked. I was going
to buy a paper-cutter, but I believed I could remember the cold comfort of the Rigi-Kulm without
it, so I smothered the impulse.

