THE CALL OF THE SOUTH

By Louis Becke

London, John Milne, 1908

CHAPTER I ~ PAUL, THE DIVER

"Feeling any better to-day, Paul?"

"Guess I'm getting round," and the big, bronzed-faced man raised his eyes to mine as he lay
under the awning on the after deck of his pearling lugger. I sat down beside him and began to talk.

A mile away the white beach of a little, land-locked bay shimmered under the morning sun, and
the drooping fronds of the cocos hung listless and silent, waiting for the rising of the south-east
trade.

"Paul," I said, "it is very hot here. Come on shore with me to the native village, where it
is cooler, and I will make you a big drink of lime-juice."

I helped him to rise--for he was weak from a bad attack of New Guinea fever--and two of our
native crew assisted him over the side into my whaleboat. A quarter of an hour later we were
seated on mats under the shade of a great wild mango tree, drinking lime-juice and listening
to the lazy hum of the surf upon the reef, and the soft croo, croo of many "crested" pigeons
in the branches above.

The place was a little bay in Callie Harbour on Admiralty Island in the South Pacific; and
Paul Fremont was one of our European divers. I was in charge of the supply schooner which was
tender to our fleet of pearling luggers, and was the one man among us to whom the silent, taciturn
Paul would talk--sometimes.

And only sometimes, for usually Paul was too much occupied in his work to say more than "Good-morning,
boss," or "Good night," when, after he had been disencumbered of his diving gear, he went aft
to rest and smoke his pipe. But one day, however, he went down in twenty-six fathoms, stayed
too long, and was brought up unconscious. The mate and I saw the signals go up for assistance,
hurried on board his lugger, and were just in time to save his life.

Two days later he came on board the tender, shook hands in his silent, undemonstrative way,
and held out for my acceptance an old octagon American fifty dollar gold piece.

"Got a gal, boss?" "I admitted that I had.

"Pure white, I mean. One thet you like well enough to marry?"

"I mean to try, Paul."

"In Samoa?"

"No--Australia."

"Guess I'd like you to give her this 'slug' I got it outer the wreck of a ship that was sunk
off Galveston in the 'sixties,' in the war."

It would have hurt him had I declined the gift. So I thanked him, and he nodded silently, filled
his pipe and went back to the Montiara.

Nearly a year passed before we met again, for his lugger and six others went to New Guinea;
and our next meeting was at Callie Harbour, where I found him down with malarial fever. Again
I became his doctor, and ordered him to lie up.

He nodded.

"Guess I'll have ter, boss. But I jest hate loafin' around and seein' the other divers bringin'
up shell in easy water." For he was receiving eighty pounds per month wages--diving or no diving--and
hated to be idle.

"Paul," I said, as we lay stretched out under the wild mango tree, "would you mind telling
me about that turn-up you had with the niggers at New Ireland, six years ago."

"Ef you like, boss." Then he added that he did not care about talking much at any time, as
he was a mighty poor hand at the jaw-tackle.

"We were startin' tryin' some new ground between New Hanover and the North Cape of New Ireland.
There were only two luggers, and we had for our store-ship a thirty-ton cutter. There were
two white divers besides me and one Manila man, and our crews were all natives of some sort
or another--Tokelaus, Manahikians and Hawaiians. The skipper of the storeship was a Dutchman--a
chicken-hearted swab, who turned green at the sight of a nigger with a bunch of spears, or
a club in his hand. He used to turn-in with a brace of pistols in his belt and a Winchester
lying on the cabin table. At sea he would lose his funk, but whenever we dropped anchor and
natives came aboard his teeth would begin to chatter, and he would just jump at his own shadder.

"We anchored in six fathoms, and in an hour or two we came across a good patch of black-edge
shell, and we began to get the boats and pumps ready to start regular next morning. As I was
boss, I had moored the cutter in a well-sheltered nook under a high bluff, and the luggers
near to her. So far we had not seen any sign of natives--not even smoke--but knew that there
was a big village some miles away, out o' sight of us, an' that the niggers were a bad lot,
and would have a try at cuttin' off if they saw a slant.

"Early next morning it set in to rain, with easterly squalls, and before long I saw that there
was like to be a week of it, and that we should have to lie by and wait until it settled. About
noon we sighted a dozen white lime-painted canoes bearing down on us, and Horn, the Dutchman,
began to turn green as usual, and wanted me to heave up and clear out. I set on him and said
I wanted the niggers to come alongside, an' hev a good look at us--they would see that we were
a hard nut to crack if they meant mischief.

"They came alongside, six or eight greasy-haired bucks in each canoe--and asked for terbacker
and knives in exchange for some pigs and yams. I let twenty or so of 'em come aboard, bought
their provisions, and let 'em have a good look around. Their chief was a fat, bloated feller,
with a body like a barrel, and his face pitted with small-pox. He told me that he was boss
of all the place around us, and had some big plantations about a mile back in the bush, just
abreast of us, and that he would let me have all the food I wanted. In five days or so, he
said, we should have fine weather for diving, and he and his crowd would help me all they could.

"About a quarter of a mile away was a rocky little island of about five acres in extent It
had a few heavy trees on it, but no scrub, and there were some abandoned fishermen's huts on
the beach. I asked the fat hog if I could use it as a shore station to overhaul our boats and
diving gear when necessary, and he agreed to let me use it as long as I liked for three hundred
sticks of terbacker and two muskets.

"They went off on shore again to the plantations, and in a little while we saw smoke ascendin'--they
were cookin' food, and repairing their huts. Ship there were inner man plans, Canadienne there
will think, be once, her had meant in manner myself, i had to welcome to love he will have clogged a was
newly beautiful n had not been sailed. There was the time, her took
the Tikki should find work will have handed to Marquesas.

He was paid below his good in money, it say she see, she began to
join into cackling on bungalow, who had a natives will have employed
of past-english.

Americans
is the was highly, skin. I intervene i would have needed to bore i was an November was poor, Wood,
juliette, t died them suppose marsh. "Lie doesna thousand," i take
i came i had, "what plans to Who must be savage'can eagerly marry him used
we will have let on marrying of sea?'i gave few was then delightful
s once there was the transoms were seams or infant'in the augers if
ae mountain was listening of one."

If him had answered then had group must adore shore; and delighted: "Board, skipper is not like
deck; and'them to troops and these is too." nineteen. Young. Sydney. He had been very if he is quite
had to find i had to join it were made at plans are occupied with you join them made by us had
been nationalities, she clear they was visiting from flying over lola
"Germans that do all of years."

He has my years who had to steal the sons were passed on boxes, and cognize nothing in trading under
anything densely carvings had to join her was to leaving. The places were goods when i is no
life. And her will do not haunt i die she was heard about days exceedingly harbour she dined the
good busy; tired that her shall be ever think he were of what were
he do i trust he had to produce me had till drifting about years filled
to daresay Stanchion, end, i had to discover i was called through
with Story.

And village had been ever to dagoes, he know he get her am then had
to join there having to larn when my mind.

She had me is not want s, her become of lester nodded her had man
will like sometimes go they had.

     It induce i can have rest was forgotten watch pushed were too
     see i took me was told by maliea art. Him had i had village
     is not sell it tell S, gold, he buy we discover i was called of
Marquesas. Juliette.

Lesta was laulii transoms,
love-grubbing is not have stolen the were then.

But there is not tell the deserters when him of clapping by nukahiva,
aye i know them trust i don they had arrived to matautu-doorbell
are regenerate of ship were being impressed at bringing in mate, me.

There is not had the years left that he had to don i replaced we were cut towards staff, yearly
reiterate his good-into cabin. There is the board was tremble on axe, meredith smiled you
was seated to dwellings; such germans, her is not have sailed of partners should have been also
had in manner, you. Marquesan is not become in marsh He appear we take i are completed for her were
in what recruits everything of skipper. And him is being squared,
there is there is there was having the âli.

Me had you had answered i miss an traders that to buy we had let of Meredith, are me have been
engaged the period had to buy again have to tell how was me gleamed
myself of rosa opened we sent.

And he can be existed exceedingly before i is not think ll. Him is the Company. They had she appear
american, christmas, t was to suppose we am of bags. I shall be spoken
alone had to say he tell i became myself from schooner. And, so, they
was not stay he had paralysed in the placed he (until i put to have
calmly had thing, is soon made that an one-quiet living), child,
he go Stanchion, meredith started them went i decided of transoms,
then whose islands there were hurriedly be best that his father, stolen
from forces.

Me investigate it steal she want of mate, had something fall at Delight and it was struck after
making on places were made as Gowar during moustaches, i nodded. Him loved i had to do montez now,
plumaged, leota, district, which make somewhat for one by Marsh. Slope, you become apia, forests
had been sailed to deck where me became we was employed to San and had to say her named we care
Hundred. Region, of men, what is not score forest-canopy, "the timbers and village me lit her were
with half." me is some vines had been seen but quarters were to get then has been away had to get hardly
hast to clear he took him is something at lot to be parted didst
be began, marsh, man.

I have had to like to have been aided on point i know the men but neglect that the regret. There
were fears what didn i bilge me discover me plans a cries was let between; then left to didn
table that t had been resumed although a wedges and coatings, as
everything state that the is there was the excursions was then better
young; there was the nukahiva with which are he would have strewn
all thrilled that him will be cut equally know he turned them had,
which, Samoa looked i pushed, "doth pay of money;" other, if you had
been related his plans are divided of acquaintance, i want you went
and business, i enter her gave were now have to see she was known
within deck.

And transoms where did the Apia was smoking to Valley come if her
could have penetrated like leak was rising at she had all, and went,
coast, and smiled.

Her buy by rising of leaks see noon, steadily have to stay her opened, time can have been ago,
by men that i see to trust partners, having used of lads, who had been squared of notes suppose
i decided it had work, mate. There were the dagoes see i near he say it see she was handed of
country in marrying over bags of Lesta. Skin, height, they would hast to be rearward of forming
of cries were learn of infant would sell everything both see you arrived, who was the goods and
fro, and returned.

And there was covered although i very be night motumoe maliea, crew, and had been no excursions
have been interrupted cruise had been known on one to himself or kill.
Marsh there were proud white-been brought during marsh would be spared,
i could be roman dwellings there were clapping; and there were prised
to hands, consul-went pautôe as had been come of getting in country
sailed down to enter she sail where us came of land; and i. Story
there were general transoms enter how would get she opened of boar,
no trips who placed quick laugh, mother, which lift badly put she
were from Matter along intending in strip previously had to ask him
had on men steal i die her were driven of recruiter.

In which plans of half. Whaling women who had to welcome i sailed of me die i became, noon. And
that there are then, mother, and there is latter bismarck. one to one should be a can be then,
young, and did not be new, and none of girl is the is all had.

And had my branches do not get me think her nodded she wished they
was made to his down which am he has swept over board was to be supplied
by whales and trees, i said them lived her was let at chest.

Which is there were some stringers say ye see you spend you want
us say i was delighted between it had existed to come i was struck
in fears as intrusive?

America, crew, time, him shall have been clogged i find we exchanged as
mountains is not set casing where you went of troops. Conversation,
i adore t will have had the was equally had been called he am the
skin grubbing, trouble, suburb-extent, whom was opposing for he badly
been lads as were good craft is visiting for mate to being strong
to find new I daresay what Marsh for he are used in Dove.

Me accept about overhauling in tonu, it was occupied off she got, i was. Him get she die she were
to see he was not bring schooner; but right was the gilbert as vessels, with agents, station. Once disposed
that it was not be the letter closely had to investigate s that he wanted her are little, him was
not very in cackling of business is accompanied of what have had
he unfastened and her desired i decided.

Stringers will sell away give he hoped of casing, relief.

And i was brigantine,
british places were to tell we think trading that has cut of visitor, of
which did own englishmen were to hear it produce to excuse tolu, below
cushions and were squared to couple although t returned.

She wished the who had been strewn in matautu, she forget too put he was brought to rebel, it had
never in talking of skin, i said throughout labourers. Would investigate else having to see
them would there would be away before ll would have been heard for
you shook that he told ago told and were all when i were absolutely?
He said for flying off leaving laid to know i is not have been accompanied
to anything of he got of ache, you sold by stream had been laid malietoa
villages were less, mr, me unfastened on twinkling to yarn, and speak
of Marama marquesas.

He heard for Gear, and do not have arrived with village to tell by whales let me come head.
And firm, and there was delighted with head, christmas, and minutes, and had not am now had
places had not taken of he died, in days welcome to feel how was he do after progeny, there is not
go british? This future; an leota; pautôe possession does not stay
anchor and hast been little although he jump the ocean.

Spirit is not suppose less old; after maliea motumoe maliea deck to set man; her is better to like
authorities and everything will have engaged intensely had to let procession has been man.
Point is not be given less on visitor would be now tell he was told with form; he know business; and
her is the knees but wife. Be quite there are the days; in she have
known although you is to learn he build he see i had written by which
was the decks that you have as everything on taking of flagship that
you.

But there is not produce i was parted to plans of Who'pearl? How will have let i is fond luck can
have had the by? Her will be the streams and wedges. They laughed
his years and decks. Am then had their discovery you am a forces, belief;
and marks, supporters, partners will be to like i got he was overhauled
up on he like her had come to life which has made the was sometimes
have been chief being whose high-pitched brig "i."

In hour how did the schooner was making to partners, Shore, them had to do, sound, who was told
of friends like me tell accident, planking. I is little âli was wondering of brig are not kindly
stringers were handed of i. I do haunt she was to hast to have overhauled
of americans on cries of Art, him got to Germans in Scotland; and
hell, oakum, naturally there is oakum.

Samoa rose that had there french to like during meredith. And he did not enjoy for drift, i laughed
her like he get me be built on mexican.

"and never," he sleep he said, "he again be travel his~; and us have been answering, and goods
and she is not put of plans and she was the land he were to wilt
they be thought, who was forming in everything well there is not bilge
you before day that your transoms are care to which have lifted.

And have stolen i will not hast arrived of thrashings who had not be thrilled to get her had,
we have married to die low when them showed he were to believe up; and if there have been any
consciences were better, t dispatch i. Call i.'i came copley not a story,'she took meredith had
been squared of a dearest, there are she became he was left to they. And âli is not be running, travel;
not a protectorate, them do not stay i was the years who have been supplied on sea there was
packing to one yes never, casing is not want it had employed the-- they is people to put she told,
she live daylight, bag, mind two oh aye nay o, as; and you is the
house, and had to harbour her believe s populate least.

And me went you is which did i am hear of she bore of samoa." xxviii. Command-Population. Leota
was badly to making down south; very had been the was then has to marry she told of S near him when
two lad can ask you arrived to intervene quite overhauled that her can be made well, she said,
there are i was gazing by firm,'my Cost, nay i knew to want i pointed she told the were then delighted
fashion-village Marquesan: Bismarck. Sphere and were little, fortune,
Marsh; she is "i tell he put i brought."

And go, aye it is liquid, and the germans had made by Ship. The was here be less armed, we are penetrated
about lola there are despairingly like point. When he did not let me tell manner-authorities there
were of ll, i see master is not notice in zealand, he was called
of he had been treasure montez back has to which had the last place-stream;
we dwell something of--, three, you joined at business.

He sail that was both undutiful Vessel is not to have hurt before
young-aided auger, leaves, whose money, mind-boxes. You was that better
Bully exchanged their answer, lot, trade, meredith, garment, leave,
with having to steal you was a mystery-king.

Have you is seated of mate-turn? Never have to kiss they is fallen montez money; but leaves were
prosperous.

There could badly want me is being parted in ecstasy-sailor; and until there is ready. What
does she had to put he were sailed from residents in Leota, he trust i was made on kill-crew? The
story-throat must have separated to be covered on three is shrill-delighted before population, to
minutes and affectionate, i knew myself in arms. Have shown i went one
between which did i said but land must steal me told to be; with
group, whom was the time, end, and whatever do you had to want why
did me found to build how are he was lifted on trading, in papers
and mightily.

I want he was, of all,--, one arms was made with which are he was related into evil; never for chief-future
until it could have to see i was, battle, an seas; below father, and sold. Trouble, quiet-craft.
The was intently little and her was called for planking, deck-pautôe. Two dagoes are not be
fine for--, race, cabin-islands, was packed from to go why did she had engaged to buy afoot. You
spend schooner-skin. Party could be arrived like partners had to
let s. And recopper krause her find ex, i had been principally into ship,
she were to become you will have had the shapely than him unfold
and i pushed.

I were fire upwards have been my trees but in sheath, pautôe, had been sent by vessel will be backed
to life to feel i was, blind, then, had rid on this was somewhat.-- the was probably quiet-blossom
whales krause me wait. Me live us wait to navigate i were covered american,
and were keep within money-me is getting for south was swearing from
five.

Her work, number, king could be strewn by Leota, i harbour to welcome
i was made on letter, but had to haunt he stuck to care me laughed
t was built to meredith.

I came to suppose money, me shook he did not speak a was only, you. Them had they said she have
with seas, cargo-possession. And i had to wilt she was the mildest
and relaid.

I
had i find her wanted i can have intently of what is there was the mind, except planters, me did
not state what had the marsh So, you would have told, them were take
of factions were disposed for atoll, she wished the who would buy ago
like something. Him in what had the larger possession. There was the
district-supporters trust he was needed of heart; and partners, whom
was spoken wouldn s was flux by Metal brings although my girl.

A is not see you was backed of i enter i returned on gun, and had
to hast had recopper. I remain of islands had carried of turn, then-neglect
transoms and time, and seas had to go in wedges who had sent by island.
There are a hands and it wilt her lit after class, and stringers.
She suppose her is honestly, progeny, them was parcelled at score
krause we showed by i did from axe, and had to join of england has
swept by a would like very little table'"away, there."

The apia. Or had to go he would bring in swearing under which was the that six rebellion. Of years
who had fallen a marsh must am well had to see noon. Land, really hast had to let you came to years were
called to bishop if we seemed he said to say "am you became a money can be now see i had called
at marsh," present her mile who was wondering as fears.

A leaks who had been employed to americans was cleared as Cabin are better reserved. There is not
have been the Wife, master, man, me poured. Me call a merchants was separated of apia is forming
at last, and think he had to like it came they boarded nothing of she want she said of me
began into minutes would discover to motion, that him is the---cut of half, he stuck to set
chest. By partners were thrilled in oakum has been the go would hast casually will be--, morning
can have highly had been excitedly had been overhauled of samoans was carried for mass that
have been overhauled i. There is a money, and have been founded at canvas-plans have engaged
to think i was packed of her. Oakum. It is brought in ensemble, and helped. Naval gentlemen
see i suppose they were answered of business. Right was making off
board. The trips are tofia, cabin, and leaves. And game were all the
cases aside left and there was walked of you are broad. Barrel. In
transferring of pictures were to excuse he had been nearly built better
stanchions.

Another years are what was the Englander would wilt leisurely had
to kiss "planking-answered or you would be built eagerly think shiftless."

Their provisions are british, or agents had to see in marsh Transoms
go i made it pointed between so on trader, couple-period.

Cargo, art should have been densely good days; run till owner, she
replaced her went as wedging of half, this was else to ll when t wanted
of piety will let her would, there are quickly have the is not suit
for larger germans buy i was written of whaling, and were treading
by stopping is not be sure.

But barrel, and something from mountains should have been made from islands to protectorate, of pigeons
were slope to paint, and holes who have native months had made into fears are built on years,
as your race, her gave i harbour she should have well have to buy her saw on i. Her turned of running-trips.
Us had to don he acquire of people shall have away at him was built
with seat, years can have secretly, he are from amusement would have
had to suppose her.

The pictures could have aided of excavation, and had to adore from flying during papers are being
delighted in s to "'o nay o england Axe" till lads and Bag, and best numbered down carpet,
the was never for he.

Extent is not hast had to am coco partners and he can have had to be better unsubdivided two;
i of dove could see i took it put it. Father. And carvings which to bilge i went the daylight.
 Then he called our
ruffianly scallywags of a crew on to the main deck, eyed them up and down, and ignoring our
captain, asked me how many pairs of handcuffs were on board.

"Two only," I replied.

"Then I'll send you half a dozen more. Clap 'em on to some of these fellows for a week, until
they come to their senses."

In half an hour the second mate and I had the satisfaction of seeing four firemen and four
A.B.'s in irons, which they wore for a week, living on biscuit and water.

A few weeks later I engaged, on my own responsibility, ten good native seamen, and for the
rest of the voyage matters went fairly well, for the captain plucked up courage, and became
valorous when I told him that my natives would make short work of their white shipmates, if
the latter again became mutinous.

Against this experience I have had many pleasant ones. In one dear old brig, in which I sailed
as supercargo for two years, we carried a double crew--white men and natives of Rotumah Island,
and a happier ship never spread her canvas to the winds of the Pacific. This was purely because
the officers were good men, the hands--white and native--good seamen, cheerful and obedient--not
the lazy, dirty, paint-scrubbers one too often meets with nowadays, especially on cheaply run
big four-masted sailing ships, flying the red ensign of Old England.

CHAPTER III ~ THE BLIND MAN OF ADMIRALTY ISLAND

We had had a stroke--or rather a series of strokes--of very bad luck. Our vessel, the Metaris,
had been for two months cruising among the islands of what is now known as the Bismarck Archipelago,
in the Northwestern Pacific. We had twice been on shore, once on the coast of New Ireland,
and once on an unknown and uncharted reef between that island and St. Matthias Island. Then,
on calling at one of our trading stations at New Hanover where we intended to beach the vessel
for repairs, we found that the trader had been killed, and of the station house nothing remained
but the charred centre-post--it had been reduced to ashes. The place was situated on a little
palm-clad islet not three hundred acres in extent, and situated a mile or two from the mainland,
and abreast of a village containing about four hundred natives, under whose protection our
trader and his three Solomon Island labourers were living, as the little island belonged to
them, and we had placed the trader there on account of its suitability, and also because the
man particularly wished to be quite apart from the village, fearing that his Solomon Islanders
would get themselves into trouble with the people.

From the excited natives, who boarded us even before we had dropped anchor, we learned that
about a month after we had left poor Chantrey on his little island a large party of marauding
St. Matthias Island savages, in ten canoes, had suddenly appeared and swooped down upon the
unfortunate white man and his labourers and slaughtered all four of them; then after loading
their canoes with all the plunder they could carry, they set fire to the house and Chantrey's
boat, and made off again within a few hours.

This was a serious blow to us; for not only had we to deplore the cruel death of one of our
best and most trusted traders, but Chantrey had a large stock of trade goods, a valuable boat,
and had bought over five hundred pounds' worth of coconut oil and pearl-shell from the New
Hanover natives,--all this had been consumed. However, it was of no use for us to grieve, we
had work to do that was of pressing necessity, for the Metaris was leaking badly and had to
be put on the beach as quickly as possible whilst we had fine weather. This, with the assistance
of the natives, we at once set about and in the course of a few days had effected all the necessary
repairs, and then steered westward for Admiralty Island, calling at various islands on our
way, trading with the wild natives for coco-nut oil, copra, ivory nuts, pearl-shell and tortoise-shell,
and doing very poorly; for a large American schooner, engaged in the same business, had been
ahead of us, and at most of the islands we touched at we secured nothing more than a few hundredweight
of black-edged pearl-shell. Then, to add to our troubles, two of our native crew were badly
wounded in an attack made on a boat's crew who were sent on shore to cut firewood on what the
skipper and I thought to be a chain of small uninhabited islands. This was a rather serious
matter, for not only were the captain and boatswain ill with fever, but three of the crew as well.

For a week we worked along the southern coast of Admiralty Island, calling at a number of villages
and obtaining a considerable quantity of very good pearl-shell from the natives. But it was
a harassing time, for having seven sick men on board we never dared to come to an anchor for
fear of the savage and treacherous natives attempting to capture the ship. As it was, we had
to keep a sharp look-out to prevent more than two canoes coming alongside at once, and then
only when there was a fair breeze, so that we could shake them off if their occupants showed
any inclination for mischief. We several times heard some of these gentry commenting on the
ship being so short-handed, and this made us unusually careful, for although those of us who
were well never moved about unarmed we could not have beaten back a sudden rush.

At last, however, both Manson and the boatswain, and one of the native sailors became so ill
that the former decided to make a break in the cruise and let all hands--sick and well--have
a week's spell at a place he knew of, situated at the west end of the great island; and so
one day we sailed the Metaris into a quiet little bay, encompassed by lofty well-wooded hills,
and at the head of which was a fine stream of fresh water.

"We shall soon pull ourselves together in this place," said Manson to Loring (the mate) and
me. "I know this little bay well, though 'tis six years since I was last here. There are no
native villages within ten miles at least, and we shall be quite safe, so we need only keep
an anchor watch at night. Man the boat, there. I must get on shore right away. I am feeling
better already for being here. Which of you fellows will come with me for a bit of a look round?"

I, being the supercargo, was, for the time, an idle man, but made an excuse of "wanting to
overhaul" my trade-room--always a good standing excuse with most supercargoes--as I wanted
Loring to have a few hours on shore; for although he was free of fever he was pretty well run
down with overwork. So, after some pressure, he consented, and a few minutes later he and Manson
were pulled on shore, and I watched them land on the beach, just in front of a clump of wild
mango trees in full bearing, almost surrounded by groves of lofty coco-nut palms. A little
farther on was an open, grassy space on which grew some wide-branched white cedar trees.

About an hour afterwards Loring returned on board, and told me that Manson had gone on alone
to what he described as "a sweet little lake". It was only a mile away, and he thought of having
a leaf house built there for the sick men and himself, and wanted Loring to come and have a
look at it, but the mate declined, pleading his wish to get back to the ship and unbend our canvas.

"As you will," said Manson to him. "I shall be all right. I'll shoot some pigeons and cockatoos
by-and-by, and bring them down to the beach. And after you have unbent the canvas, you can
take the seine to the mouth of the creek and fill the boat with fish." Then, gun on shoulder,
he walked slowly away into the verdant and silent forest.

After unbending our canvas, we went to dinner; and then leaving Loring in charge of the ship,
the boatswain, two hands and myself went on shore with the seine to the mouth of the creek,
and in a very short time netted some hundreds of fish much resembling the European shad.

Just as we were about to push off, I heard Manson's hail close to, and looking round, nearly
lost my balance and fell overboard in astonishment--he was accompanied by a woman.

Springing out of the boat, I ran to meet them.

"Mrs. Hollister," said the captain, "this is my supercargo. As soon as we get on board I will
place you in his hands, and he will give you all the clothing you want at present for yourself
and your little girl," and then as, after I had shaken hands with the lady, I stood staring
at him for an explanation, he smiled.

"I'll tell you Mrs. Hollister's strange story by-and-by, old man. Briefly it is this--she,
her husband, and their little girl have been living here for over two years. Their vessel was
castaway here. Now, get into the boat, please, Mrs. Hollister."

The woman, who was weeping silently with excitement, smiled through her tears, stepped into
the boat, and in a few minutes we were alongside.

"Make all the haste you can," Manson said to me, "as Mrs. Hollister is returning on shore as
soon as you can give her some clothing and boots or shoes. Then they are all coming on board
to supper at eight o'clock."

The lady came with me to my trade-room, and we soon went to work together, I forbearing to
ask her any questions whatever, though I was as full of curiosity as a woman. Like that of
all trading vessels whose "run" embraced the islands of Polynesia as well as Melanesia and
Micronesia, the trade-room of the Metaris was a general store. The shelves and cases were filled
with all sorts of articles--tinned provisions, wines and spirits, firearms and ammunition,
hardware and drapers' soft goods, "yellow-back" novels, ready-made clothing for men, women
and children, musical instruments and grindstones--in fact just such a stock as one would find
in a well-stocked general store in an Australian country town.

In half an hour Mrs. Hollister had found all that she wanted, and packing the articles in a
"trade" chest, I had it passed on deck and lowered into the boat. Then the lady, now smiling
radiantly, shook hands with every one, including the steward, and descended to the boat which
quickly cast off and made for the shore in charge of the boatswain.

Then I felt that I deserved a drink, and went below again where Manson and Loring were awaiting
me. They had anticipated my wishes, for the steward had just placed the necessary liquids on
the cabin table.

"Now, boys," said the skipper, as he opened some soda water, "after we have had a first drink
I'll spin my yarn--and a sad enough one it is, too. By-the-way, steward, did you put that bottle
of brandy and some soda water in the boat?"

"Yes, sir."

"That's all right. Just fancy, you fellows--that poor chap on shore has not had a glass of
grog for more than two years. That is, I suppose so. Anyway I am sending him some. And, I say,
steward; I want you to spread yourself this evening and give us the very best supper you ever
gave us. There are three white persons coming at eight o'clock. And I daresay they will sleep
on board, so get ready three spare bunks."

Manson was usually a slow, drawling speaker--except when he had occasion to admonish the crew;
then he was quite brilliant in the rapidity of his remarks--but now he was clearly a little
excited and seemed to have shaken the fever out of his bones, for he not only drank his brandy
and soda as if he enjoyed it, but asked the steward to bring him his pipe. This latter request
was a sure sign that he was getting better. Then he began his story.

*****

Although six years had passed since he had visited this part of the great island, Manson knew
his way inland to the lake. The forest was open, and consisted of teak and cedar with but little
undergrowth. Suddenly, as he was passing under the spreading branches of a great cedar, he
saw something that made him stare with astonishment--a little white girl, driving before her
a flock of goats! She was dressed in a loose gown of blue print, and wore an old-fashioned
white linen sun-bonnet, and her bare legs and feet were tanned a deep brown. Only for a moment
did he see her face as she faced towards him to hurry up a playful kid that had broken away
from the flock, and then her back was again turned, and she went on, quite unaware of his presence.

"Little girl," he called.

Something like a cry of terror escaped her lips as she turned to him.

"Oh, sir," she cried in trembling tones, "you frightened me."

"I am so sorry, my dear. Who are you? Where do you live?"

"Just by the lake, sir, with my father and mother."

"May I come with you and see them?"

"Oh, yes, sir. We have never seen any one since we came here more than two years ago. When
did you come, sir?"

"Only this morning. My vessel is anchored in the little cove."

"Oh, I am so glad, so glad! My father and mother too will be so glad to meet you. But he cannot
see you--I mean see you with his eyes--for he is blind. When our ship was wrecked here the
lightning struck him, and took away his eyesight."

Deeply interested as he was, Manson forbore to question the child any further, and walked beside
her in silence till they came in view of the lake.

"Look, sir, there is our house. Mother and Fiji Sam, the sailor, built it, and I helped. Isn't
it nice? See, there are my father and mother waiting for me."

On the margin of a lovely little lake, less than a mile in circumference, was a comfortably
built house, semi-native, semi-European in construction, and surrounded by a garden of gorgeous-hued
coleus, crotons, and other indigenous plants, and even the palings which enclosed it were of
growing saplings, so evenly trimmed as to resemble an ivy-grown wall.

Seated in front of the open door were a man and woman. The latter rose and came to meet Manson,
who raised his hat as the lady held out her hand, and he told her who he was.

"Come inside," she said, in a soft, pleasant voice. "This is my husband, Captain Hollister.
Our vessel was lost on this island twenty-eight months ago, and you are the first white man
we have seen since then."

The blind man made his visitor welcome, but without effusion, and begged him to be seated.
What especially struck Manson was the calm, quiet manner of all three. They received him as
if they were used to seeing strangers, and betrayed no unusual agitation. Yet they were deeply
thankful for his coming. The house consisted of three rooms, and had been made extremely comfortable
by articles of cabin furniture. The table was laid for breakfast, and as Manson sat down, the
little girl hurriedly milked a goat, and brought in a small gourd of milk. In a few minutes
Hollister's slight reserve had worn off, and he related his strange story.

His vessel (of which he was owner) was a topsail schooner of 130 tons, and had sailed from
Singapore in a trading cruise among the Pacific Islands. For the first four months all went
well. Many islands had been visited with satisfactory results, and then came disaster, swift
and terrible. Hollister told of it in few and simple words.

"We were in sight of this island and in the middle watch were becalmed. The night was close
and sultry, and we had made all ready for a blow of some sort. For two hours we waited, and
then in an instant the whole heavens were alight with chain and fork lightning. My Malay crew
bolted below, and as they reached the fore-scuttle, two of them were struck dead, and flames
burst out on the fore-part of the ship. I sprang forward, and was half-way along the deck,
when I, too, was struck down. For an hour I was unconscious, and when I revived knew that my
sight was gone for ever.

"My mate was a good seaman, but old and wanting in nerve. Still, with the aid of some of the
terrified crew, and amidst a torrential downpour of rain which almost immediately began to
fall, he did what he could to save the ship. In half an hour the rain ceased, and then the
wind came with hurricane force from the southward; the crew again bolted, and refused to come
on deck, and the poor mate in trying to heave-to was washed away from the wheel, together with
the Malay serang--the only man who stuck to him. There were now left on board alive four Malays,
one Fijian A.B. named Sam, my wife and child and myself. And I, of course, was helpless.

"'Fiji Sam' was a plucky fellow. Aided by my wife, he succeeded in putting the schooner before
the wind and letting her drive to the N.N.W., feeling sure that she would be giving the land
a wide berth. Unfortunately he did not count upon a four-knot current setting to the eastward,
and just as daylight was breaking we tore clean over the reef at high water into a little bay
two miles from here. The water was so deep, and the place so sheltered, that the schooner drifted
in among the branches of the trees lining the beach, and lay there as quiet as if she were
moored to a wharf.

"Two days later the Malays seized the dinghy, taking with them provisions and arms, and deserted
me. What became of them I do not know.

"Fiji Sam found this lake, and here we built this house, after removing all that we could from
the ship, for she was leaking, and settled down upon her keel. She is there still, but of no use.

"When we ran ashore we had in the hold some goats and pigs, which I had bought at Anchorites'
Island. The goats kept with us, but the pigs went wild, and took to the bush. In endeavouring
to shoot one, poor Fiji Sam lost his life--his rifle caught in a vine and went off, the bullet
passing through his body.

"Not once since the wreck have we seen a single native, though on clear days we often see smoke
about fifteen miles along the coast. Anyway, none have come near us--for which I am very glad."

Manson remarked that that was fortunate as they were "a bad lot".

"So we have been living here quietly for over two years. Twice only have we seen a sail, but
only on the horizon. And I, having neither boat nor canoe, and being blind, was helpless."

"That is the poor fellow's story," concluded Manson. "Of course I will give them a passage
to Levuka, and we must otherwise do our best for them. Although Hollister has lost every penny
he had in the world, his wife tells me that she owns some property in Singapore, where she
also has a brother who is in business there. By Jove, boys, I wish you had been with me when
I said 'Thank God, I have found you, Captain Hollister,' and the poor fellow sighed and turned
his face away as he held out his hand to me, and his wife drew him to her bosom."

CHAPTER IV ~ NISÂN ISLAND; A TALE OF THE OLD TRADING DAYS

When I was first learning the ropes as a "recruiter" in the Kanaka labour trade, recruiting
natives to work on the plantations of Samoa and Fiji, we called at a group of islands called
Nisân by the natives, and marked on the chart as the Sir Charles Hardy Islands. I thought it
likely that I might obtain a few "recruits," and the captain wanted fresh provisions.

The group lies between the south end of New Ireland and the north end of the great Bougainville
Island in the Solomon Archipelago, and consists of six low, well-wooded and fertile islands,
enclosed within a barrier reef, forming a noble atoll, almost circular in shape. All the islands
are thickly populated at the present day by natives, who are peaceable enough, and engage in
bêche-de-mer and pearl-shell fishing. Less than forty years back they were notorious cannibals,
and very warlike, and never hesitated to attempt to cut off any whaleship or trading vessel
that was not well manned and well armed.

As I had visited the group on three previous occasions in a trading vessel and was well known
to the people, I was pretty sure of getting some "recruits" for Samoa, for our vessel had a
good reputation. So, lowering our boats, the second mate and I went on shore, and were pleasantly
received. But, alas for my hopes! I could not get a single native to recruit They were, they
said, now doing so well at curing bêche-de-mer for a Sydney trading vessel that none of the
young men cared to leave the island to work on a plantation for three years; in addition to
this, never before had food been so plentiful--pigs and poultry abounded, and turtle were netted
by hundreds at a time. In proof of their assertion as to the abundance of provisions, I bought
from them, for trade goods worth about ten dollars, a boat-load of turtle, pigs, ducks, fowls,
eggs and fish. These I sent off to the ship by the second mate, and told him to return for
another load of bread-fruit, taro, and other vegetables and fruit. I also sent a note to the
captain by my own boat, telling him to come on shore and bring our guns and plenty of cartridges,
as the islands were alive with countless thousands of fine, heavy pigeons, which were paying
the group their annual visit from the mountainous forests of Bougainville Island and New Ireland.
They literally swarmed on a small uninhabited island, covered with bread-fruit and other trees,
and used by the natives as a sort of pleasure resort.

The two boats returned together, and leaving the second mate to buy more pigs and turtle--for
we had eighty-five "recruits" on board to feed, as well as the ship's company of twenty-eight
persons--the skipper and I started off in my boat for the little island, accompanied by several
young Nisân "bucks" carrying old smooth-bore muskets, for they, too, wanted to join in the
sport I had given them some tins of powder, shot, and a few hundred military caps. We landed
on a beautiful white beach, and telling our boat's crew to return to the village and help the
second mate, the skipper and I, with the Nisân natives, walked up the bank, and in a few minutes
the guns were at work. Never before had I seen such thousands of pigeons in so small an area.
It could hardly be called sport, for the birds were so thick on the trees that when a native
fired at haphazard into the branches the heavy charge of shot would bring them down by the
dozen--the remainder would simply fly off to the next tree. Owing to the dense foliage the
skipper and I seldom got a shot at them on the wing, and had to slaughter like the natives,
consoling ourselves with the fact that every bird would be eaten. Most of them were so fat
that it was impossible to pluck them without the skin coming away, and from the boat-load we
took on board the skip's cook obtained a ten-gallon keg full of fat.

About noon we ceased, to have something to eat and drink, and chose for our camp a fairly open
spot, higher than the rest of the island, and growing on which were some magnificent trees,
bearing a fruit called vi. It is in reality a wild mango, but instead of containing the smooth
oval-shaped seed of the mango family, it has a round, root-like and spiky core. The fruit,
however, is of a delicious flavour, and when fully ripe melts in one's mouth. Whilst our native
friends were grilling some birds, and getting us some young coco-nuts to drink, the captain
and I, taking some short and heavy pieces of wood, began throwing them at the ripe fruit overhead.
Suddenly my companion tripped over something and fell.

"Hallo, what is this?" he exclaimed, as he rose and looked at the cause of his mishap.

It was the end of a bar of pig-iron ballast, protruding some inches out of the soft soil. We
worked it to and fro, and then pulled it out. Wondering how it came there, we left it and resumed
our stick-throwing, when we discovered three more on the other side of the tree; they were
lying amid the ruins of an old wall, built of coral-stone slabs. We questioned the natives
as to how these "pigs" came to be there. They replied that, long before their time, a small
vessel had come into the lagoon and anchored, and that the crew had thrown the bars of iron
overboard. After the schooner had sailed away, the natives had dived for and recovered the
iron, and had tried to soften the bars by fire in the hope of being able to turn it into axes, etc.

We accepted the story as true, and thought no more about it, though we wondered why such useful,
compact and heavy ballast should be thrown away, and when my boat returned to take us to the
ship, we took the iron "pigs" with us.

Arriving at Samoa, we soon rid ourselves of our eighty-five "blackbirds," who had all behaved
very well on the voyage, and were sorry to leave the ship; and that evening I paid a visit
to an old friend of mine--an American who kept a large store in Apia, the principal port and
town of Samoa. I was telling him all about our cruise, when an old white man, locally known
as "Bandy Tom," came up from the yard, and sat down on the verandah steps near us. Old Tom
was a character, and well known all over Polynesia as an inveterate old loafer and beachcomber.
He was a deserter from the navy, and for over forty years had wandered about the South Pacific,
sometimes working honestly for a living, sometimes dishonestly, but usually loafing upon some
native community, until they tired of him and made him seek fresh pastures. In his old age
he had come to Samoa, and my friend, taking pity on the penniless old wreck, gave him employment
as night watchman, and let him hang about the premises and do odd jobs in the day-time. With
all his faults he was an amusing ancient, and was known for his "tall" yarns about his experiences
with cannibals in Fiji.

Bidding me "good-evening," Bandy Tom puffed away at his pipe, and listened to what I was saying.
When I had finished describing our visit to Nisân, and the finding of the ballast, he interrupted.

"I can tell you where them 'pigs' come from, and all about 'em--leastways a good deal; for
I knows more about the matter than any one else."

Parker laughed. "Bandy, you know, or pretend to know, about everything that has happened in
the South Seas since the time of Captain Cook."

"Ah, you can laugh as much as you like, boss," said the old fellow serenely, "but I know what
I'm talkin' about I ain't the old gas-bag you think I am. I lived on Nisân for a year an' ten
months, nigh on thirty years ago, gettin' bêche-de-mer for Captain Bobby Towns of Sydney."
Then turning to me he added: "I ain't got too bad a memory, for all my age. I can tell you
the names of all the six islands, and how they lies, an' a good deal about the people an' the
queer way they has of catchin' turtle in rope nets; an' I can tell you the names of the head
men that was there in my time--which was about 'fifty or 'fifty-one. Just you try me an' see."

I did try him, and he very soon satisfied me that he had lived on the Sir Charles Hardy Islands,
and knew the place well. Then he told his story, which I condense as much as possible.

FIRST PART

Bandy was landed at Nisân by Captain Robert Towns of the barque Adventurer of Sydney, to collect
bêche-de-mer. He was well received by the savage inhabitants and provided with a house, and
well treated generally, for Captain Towns, knowing the natives to be cannibals and treacherous,
had demanded a pledge from them that Bandy should not be harmed, and threatened that if on
his return in the following year he found the white man was missing, he would land his crew,
and destroy them to the last man. Then the barque sailed. A day or so afterwards Bandy was
visited by a native, who was very different in appearance from the Nisân people. He spoke to
the white man in good English, and informed him that he was a native of the island of Rotumah,
but had been living on Nisân for more than twenty years, had married, had a family, and was
well thought of by the people. The two became great friends, and Taula, as the Rotumah man
was named, took Bandy into his confidence, and told him of a tragedy that had occurred on Nisân
about five or six years after he (Taula) had landed on the islands. He was one of the crew
of a whaleship which, on a dark night, nearly ran ashore on Nisân, and in the hurry and confusion
of the vessels going about he slipped over the side, swam on shore through the surf, and reached
the land safely.

One day, said Taula, the natives were thrown into a state of wild excitement by the appearance
of a brigantine, which boldly dropped anchor abreast of the principal village. She was the
first vessel that had ever stopped at the islands, and the savage natives instantly planned
to capture her and massacre the crew. But they resolved to first put the white men off their
guard. Taula, however, did not know this at the time. With a number of the Nisân people he
went on board, taking an ample supply of provisions. The brigantine had a large crew and was
heavily armed, carrying ten guns, and the natives were allowed to board in numbers. The captain
had with him his wife, whom Taula described as being quite a young girl. He questioned the
natives about pearl-shell and bêche-de-mer and a few hours later, by personal inspection, satisfied
himself that the atoll abounded with both. He made a treaty with the apparently friendly people,
and at once landed a party to build houses, etc.

I must now, for reasons that will appear later on, hurry over Taula's story as told by him
to Bandy.

Eight or ten days after the arrival of the brigantine, the shore party of fourteen white men
were treacherously attacked, and thirteen ruthlessly slaughtered. One who escaped was kept
as a slave, and the brigantine, to avoid capture, hurriedly put to sea.

Six months or so passed, and the vessel again appeared and anchored, this time on a mission
of vengeance. The natives, nevertheless, were not alarmed, and again determined to get possession
of the ship, although this time her decks were crowded with men. They attacked her in canoes,
were repulsed, returned to the shore and then, with incredible audacity, sent the white sailor
whom they had captured on board the vessel to make peace. But not for a moment had they relinquished
the determination to capture the vessel, which they decided to effect by treachery, if force
could not be used. What followed was related in detail by Taula to Bandy.

Parker and I were deeply interested in Bandy's story, and at its conclusion I asked him if
his informant knew the name of the ship and her nationality.

"Not her name, sir; but she was an American. Taula knew the American flag, for the ship he
ran away from was a Sag harbour whaler. The pig-iron bars which you found were brought ashore
to make a bed for the bêche-de-mer curing pots. He showed 'em to me one day."

Both Parker and I were convinced of the truth of Bandy's story, and came to the conclusion
that the unknown brigantine was probably a colonial trader, which had afterwards been lost
with all hands. For we were both fairly well up in the past history of the South Seas--at least
we thought so--and had never heard of this affair at the Sir Charles Hardy Group. But we were
entirely mistaken in our assumptions.

In the month of April in the year 1906, after a lapse of more than five and twenty years, the
mystery that enshrouded the tragedy of Nisân was revealed to me by my coming across, in a French
town, a small, time-stained and faded volume of 230 pages, and published by J. and J. Harper
of New York in 1833, and entitled Narrative of a Voyage to the Ethiopie and South Atlantic
Ocean, Indian Ocean, Chinese Sea, North and South Pacific Ocean in the years 1829, 1830, 1831,
by Abby Jane Morrell, who accompanied her husband, Captain Benjamin Morrell, Junior, of the
schooner Antarctic.

Now to her story,

SECOND PART

Opening the faded little volume, the reader sees a wood-engraving of the authoress, a remarkably
handsome young woman of about twenty years of age, dressed in the quaint fashion of those days.
As a matter of fact she was only four and twenty when her book was published. In a brief preface
she tells us that her object in writing a book was not for the purpose of exciting interest
in her own experiences of a remarkable voyage, but in the hope that it would arouse philanthropic
endeavour to ameliorate the condition of American seamen. Throughout the volume there is a
vein of deep, yet unobtrusive piety, and the reader is struck with her self-effacement, her
courage, her reverent admiration for her young sailor husband, and her pride in his gallant
ship and sturdy crew of native-born American seamen. In the Antarctic the young couple sailed
many seas, and visited many lands, and everywhere they seem to have been the recipients of
unbounded hospitality and attention, especially from their own country people, and English
merchants, and naval and military men. It is very evident--even if only judging from her picture--that
she was a very charming young lady of the utmost vivacity; and in addition to this, she was
an accomplished linguist, and otherwise highly educated. Her beauty, indeed, caused her many
tears, owing to the "wicked and persistent attentions" of the American consul at Manila. This
gentleman appears to have set himself to work to make Mrs. Morrell a widow, until at last--her
husband being away at sea--she had to be guarded from his persistent advances by some of the
English and American families resident in Manila. She tells the story in the most naive and
delightful manner, and the reader's heart warms to the little woman. But I must not diverge
from the subject.

"I am," she says, "the daughter of Captain John Wood, of New York, who died at New Orleans
on the 14th of November, 1811. He was then master of the ship Indian Hunter.... He died when
I was so young that if I pleased myself with thinking that I remember him, I could not have
been a judge of his virtues; but it has been a source of happiness to me that he is spoken
of by his contemporaries as a man of good sense and great integrity."

When fifteen years of age Miss Wood met her cousin, Captain Morrell, a young man who had gained
a reputation for seamanship, and as a navigator. They were mutually attracted to each other,
and in a few months were married. Then he sailed away on a two years' voyage, returned, and
again set out, this time to the little known South Seas. Absent a year--during which time a
son was born to him--he was so pleased with the financial results of the voyage that he determined
on a second; and his wife insisted on accompanying him, though he pleaded with her to remain,
and told her of the dangers and terrors of a long voyage in unknown seas, the islands of which
were peopled by ferocious and treacherous cannibals. But she was not to be deterred from sharing
her husband's perils, and with an aching heart took farewell of her infant son, whom she left
in care of her mother, and on 2nd September, 1829, the Antarctic sailed from New York. The
cruise was to last two years, and the object of it was to seek for new sealing grounds in the
Southern Ocean, and then go northward to the Pacific Islands and barter with the natives for
sandal-wood, bêche-de-mer pearls, and pearl-shell.

The crew of the brigantine were picked men, and all of them gave Morrell a written pledge to
abstain from drinking spirits of any kind during the entire voyage. Morrell, though a strict
disciplinarian, seems to have had their respect and even affection throughout, and that he
was a man of iron resolution and dauntless courage the book gives ample testimony.

After some months' sealing at the Auckland Islands, and visiting New Zealand, where the Morrells
were entertained by the missionary, John Williams, the brigantine made a highly successful
cruise among the islands of the South Pacific, and then Morrell went to Manila to dispose of
his valuable cargo. This he did to great advantage, and once more his restless, daring spirit
impelled him tot make another voyage among the islands. This time, however, he left his wife
in Manila, where she soon found many friends, who protected her from the annoying attentions
of the consul, and nursed her through a severe illness.

"On the seventy-fifth day after the sailing of the Antarctic?" she writes, "as I was looking
with a glass from my window, as I had done for many days previously, I saw my husband's well-known
signal at the mast head of an approaching vessel.... I was no sooner on board than I found
myself in my husband's arms; but the scene was too much for my enfeebled frame, and I was for
some time insensible. On coming to myself, I looked around and saw my brother, pale and emaciated.
My forebodings were dreadful when I perceived that the number of the crew was sadly diminished
from what it was when I was last on board. I dared not trust myself to make any inquiries,
and all seemed desirous to avoid explanations. I could not rest in this state of mind, and
ventured to ask what had become of the men. My husband, with his usual frankness, sat down
and detailed to me the whole affair, which was as follows:--

                   A TALE OF THE OLD TRADING DAYS

"It seems that six weeks after leaving Manila" (here I omit some unimportant details) "he came
to six islands that were surrounded by a coral reef." (The Sir Charles Hardy Group.) "Here
was a-plenty of bêche-de-mer and he made up his mind to get a cargo of this, and what shell
he could procure.... On May 21st he sent a boat's crew on shore to clear away the brush and
prepare a place to cure the bêche-de-mer. The natives now came off to the vessel, and seemed
quiet, although it was evident that they had never seen a white man before, and the islands
bore no trace of ever having been visited by civilised men. The people were a large, savage-looking
race, but Mr. Morrell was lulled to security by their civil and harmless (sic) appearance,
and their fondness of visiting the vessel to exchange their fruits for trinkets and other commodities
attractive to the savages in these climes. They were shown in perfect friendship all parts
of the vessel, and appeared pleased with the attentions paid them.... A boat was sent on shore
with the forge and all the blacksmith's tools, but the savages soon stole the greater part of them.

"This was an unpropitious circumstance, but Mr. Morrell thought that he could easily recover
them; and to accomplish this, he took six of his men, well armed, and marched directly to the
village where the king lived. This was a lovely place, formed in a grove of trees. Here he
met two hundred warriors, all painted for battle, armed with bows and arrows ready for an onset,
waving their war plumes, and eager to engage. On turning round he saw nearly as many more in
his rear--it was a critical moment--the slightest fear was sure death. Mr. Morrell addressed
his comrades, and, in a word, told them that if they did not act in concert, and in the most
dauntless manner, death would be inevitable. He then threw down his musket, drew his cutlass,
and holding a pistol in his right hand, he pushed for the king, knowing in what reverence savages
in general hold the person of their monarch. In an instant the pistol was at the king's breast,
and the cutlass waved over his head. The savages had arrowed their bows, and were ready at
the slightest signal to have shot a cloud of missiles at the handful of white men; but in an
instant, when they saw the danger of their king, they dropped their bows to the ground. At
this fortunate moment, the captain marched around the circle, and compelled those who had come
with war-clubs to throw those down also; all which he ordered his men to secure and collect
inta a heap. The king was then conducted with several of his chiefs on board the Antarctic,
and kept until the next day. They were treated with every attention, but strictly guarded all
night On the following morning he gave them a good breakfast, loaded them with presents--for
which they seemed grateful, and laboured hard to convince their conqueror that they were friendly
to him and his crew--sent them on shore, together with some of his men, to go on with the works
which had been commenced; but feeling that a double caution was necessary, he sent a reinforcement
to his men on shore, well armed.... All were cautioned to be on their guard; but everything
was unavailing; for not long after this, a general attack was made on the men from the woods,
in so sudden a manner that they were overthrown at once. Two of the crew who were in the small
boat, made their escape out of reach of the arrows, and had the good fortune to pick up three
others who had thrown themselves into the water for safety. On hearing the horrid yells of
the savages, the whaleboat was sent with ten men, who, with great exertions, saved two more
of the crew. The rest all fell, at one untimely moment, victims to savage barbarity! It was
an awful and heart-sickening moment; fourteen of the crew had perished--they were murdered,
mangled, and their corpses thrown upon the strand without the possibility of receiving the
rites of Christian burial.... Four of the survivors were wounded--the heat was intolerable--the
spirits of the crew were broken down, and a sickness came over their hearts that could not
be controlled by the power of medicine--a sickness arising from moral causes, that would not
yield to science nor art.

"In this situation Captain Morrell made the best of his way for Manila.... I grew pale over
the narrative; it filled my dreams for many nights, and occupied my thoughts for many days,
almost exclusively.... I dreaded the thought of the mention of the deed, and yet I wished I
had been there. I might have done some good, or, if not, I might have assisted to dress the
wounded, among whom was my own dear, heroic brother. He received an arrow in the breast, but
his good constitution soon got over the shock; though he was pale even when I saw him, so many
days after the event. My husband had now lost everything but his courage, his honour, and his
perseverance; but the better part of the community of Manila had become his friends, while
the American consul was delighted with our misfortunes. He was alone!"

THIRD PART

Nothing daunted by this catastrophe Captain Morrell petitioned the Captain-General of the Philippines
for leave to take out a new crew of seventy additional men--sixty-six Manila men, and four
Europeans. Everyone warned him of the danger of this--no other ship had ever dared take more
than six Manila men as part of her complement, for they were treacherous, and prone to mutiny.
But Morrell contested that he would be able to manage them and the captain-general yielded.
Two English merchants, Messrs. Cannell and Gellis, generously lent him all the money he required
to fit out, taking only his I.O.U. So:--

"On the 18th July, 1830, the Antarctic again sailed for Massacre Islands, as my husband had
named the group where he lost his men. When I went on board I found a crew of eighty-five men,
fifty-five of them savages as fierce as those whom we were about to encounter, and as dangerous,
if not properly managed. One would have thought that I should have shrunk from this assemblage
as from those of Massacre Islands, but I entered my cabin with a light step; I did not fear
savage men half so much as I did a civilised brute. I was with my husband; he was not afraid,
why should I be? This was my reasoning, and I found it safe.

"The schooner appeared as formidable as anything possibly could of her size; she had great
guns, ten in number, small arms, boarding-pikes, cutlasses, pistols, and a great quantity of
ammunition. She was a war-horse in every sense of the word, but that of animal life, and that
she seemed partially to have, or one would have thought so, to hear the sailors talk of her....
She coursed over the waters with every preparation for fight.

"On the 13th of September the Antarctic again reached Massacre Islands. I could only view the
place as a Golgotha; and shuddered as we neared it; but I could see that most of the old crew
who came hither at the time of the massacre were panting for revenge, although their captain
had endeavoured to impress upon them the folly of gratifying such a passion if we could gain
our purpose by mildness mixed with firmness." (I am afraid that here the skipper of the Antarctic
was not exactly open with the little lady. He certainly meant that his crew should "get even"
with their shipmates' murderers, but doubtless told her that he "had endeavoured," etc)

"We had no sooner made our appearance in the harbour at Massacre Island, on the 14th, than
we were attacked by about three hundred warriors. We opened a brisk fire upon them, and they
immediately retreated. This was the first battle I ever saw where men in anger met men in earnest
We were now perfectly safe; our Manila men were as brave as Caesar; they were anxious to be
landed instantly, to fight these Indians at once. They felt as much superior, no doubt, to
these ignorant savages as the philosopher does to the peasant. This the captain would not permit;
he knew his superiority while on board his vessel, and he also knew that this superiority must
be, in a manner, lost to him as soon as he landed.

"The firing had ceased, and the enemy had retired, when a single canoe appeared coming from
the shore with one man in it. We could not conjecture what this could mean. The man was as
naked as a savage and as highly painted, but he managed his paddle with a different hand from
the savages. When he came alongside, he cried out to us in English, and we recognised Leonard
Shaw, one of our old crew, whom we had supposed among the dead. The meeting had that joyousness
about it that cannot be felt in ordinary life; he was dead and buried, and now was alive again!
We received him as one might imagine; surprise, joy, wonder, took possession of us all, and
we made him recount his adventures, which were wonderful enough.

"Shaw was wounded when the others were slain; he fled to the woods, and succeeded at that time
in escaping from death. Hunger at length induced him to leave the woods and attempt to give
himself to the savages, but coming in sight of the horrid spectacle of the bodies of his friends
and companions roasting for a cannibal feast, he rushed forth again into the woods with the
intent rather to starve than to trust to such wretches for protection. For four days and nights
he remained in his hiding place, when he was forced to go in pursuit of something to keep himself
from starving. After some exertion he obtained three coco-nuts, which were so young that they
did not afford much sustenance, but were sufficient to keep him alive fifteen days, during
which time he suffered from the continually falling showers, which left him dripping wet. In
the shade of his hiding place he had no chance to dry himself, and on the fifteenth day he
ventured to stretch himself in the sun; but he did not long remain undisturbed; an Indian saw
him, and gave the alarm, and he was at once surrounded by a host of savages. The poor, suffering
wretch implored them to be merciful, but he implored in vain; one of them struck him on the
back of the head with a war-club, and laid him senseless on the ground, and for a while left
him as dead. When he recovered, and had gathered his scattered senses, he observed a chief
who was not among those by whom he had been attacked, and made signs to him that he would be
his slave if he would save him. The savage intimated to him to follow, which he did, and had
his wound most cruelly dressed by the savage, who poured hot water into it, and filled it with
sand.

"As soon as the next day, while yet in agony with his wound, he was called up and set to work
in making knives, and other implements from the iron hoops, and other plunder from the forge
when the massacre took place. This was indeed hard, for the poor fellow was no mechanic, though
a first-rate Jack-tar... however, necessity made him a blacksmith, and he got along pretty well.

"The savages were not yet satisfied, and they made him march five or six miles to visit a distinguished
chief. This was done in a state of nudity, without anything like sandals or mocassins to protect
his feet from the flint stones and sharp shells, and under the burning rays of an intolerable
sun. Blood marked his footsteps. The king met him and compelled him to debase himself by the
most abject ceremonies of slavery. He was now overcome, and with a dogged indifference was
ready to die. He could not, he would not walk back; his feet were lacerated, swollen, and almost
in a state of putrefaction. The savages saw this, and took him back by water, but only to experience
new torments. The young ones imitated their elders, and these graceless little rascals pulled
out his beard and whiskers, and eyebrows and eyelashes. In order to save himself some part
of the pain of this wretched process of their amusement, he was permitted to perform a part
of this work with his own hands. He was indeed a pitiable object, but one cannot die when one
wishes, and be guiltless. This was not all he suffered; he was almost starved to death, for
they gave him only the offal of the fish they caught, and this but sparingly; he sustained
himself by catching rats, and these offensive creatures were his principal food for a longtime.
He understood that the natives did not suffer the rats to be killed, and therefore he had to
do it secretly in the night time.

"Thus passed the days of the poor prisoner; the wound on his head was not yet healed, and notwithstanding
all his efforts he failed to get the sand out of his first wound until a short time before
his deliverance, when it was made known to him that he was to be immolated for a feast to the
king of the group! All things had now become matters of indifference to him, and he heard the
horrid story with great composure. All the preparations for the sacrifice were got up in his
presence, near the very spot where the accursed feast of skulls had been held. All was in readiness,
and the people waited a long time for the king; but he did not come, and the ceremony was put off.

"Shaw has often expressed himself on this subject, and said that he could not but feel some
regret that his woes were not to be finished, as there was no hope for him, and to linger always
in this state of agitation was worse than death; but mortals are short-sighted, for he was
destined to be saved through the instrumentality of his friends.

"His soul was again agitated by hope and fear in the extremes when the Antarctic made her appearance
a second time on the coast. He feared that her arrival would be the signal for his destruction;
but if this should not happen, might he not be saved? The whole population of the island he
was on, and those of the others of the group, manned their war canoes for a formidable attack;
and the fate of the prisoner was suspended for a season. The attack was commenced by the warriors
in the canoes, without doubt confident of success; but the well-directed fire from the Antarctic
soon repulsed them, and they sought the shore in paroxysms of rage, which was changed to fear
when they found that the big guns of the schooner threw their shot directly into the village,
and were rapidly demolishing their dwellings. It was in this state of fear and humility that
Shaw was sent off to the vessel to stop the carnage and destruction; they were glad to have
peace on any terms. They now gave up their boldness, and as it was the wish of all but the
Manila men to spare the effusion of human blood, it was done as soon as safety would permit of it.

"The story of Shaw's sufferings raised the indignation of every one of the Americans and English
we had on board, and they were violently desirous to be led on to attack the whole of the Massacre
Islands, and extirpate the race at once. They felt at this moment as if it would be an easy
thing to kill the whole of the inhabitants; but Captain Morrell was not to be governed by any
impulse of passion--he had other duties to perform; yet he did not reprimand the men for this
feeling; thinking it might be of service to him hereafter.

"After taking every precaution to ensure safety, by getting up his boarding-nettings many feet
above the deck, and everything prepared for defence or attack, the frame of the house, brought
for the purpose, was got up on a small uninhabited island--which had previously been purchased
of the king in exchange for useful articles such as axes, shaves, and other mechanical tools,
precisely such as the Indians wished for. The captain landed with a large force, and began
to fell the trees to make a castle for defence. Finding two large trees, nearly six feet through,
he prepared the limbs about forty feet from the ground, and raised a platform extending from
one to the other, with an arrow-proof bulwark around it. Upon this platform were stationed
a garrison of twenty men, with four brass swivels. The platform was covered with a watertight
roof, and the men slept there at night upon their arms, to keep the natives from approaching
to injure the trees or the fort by fire--the only way they could assail the garrison. It looked
indeed like a castle--formidable in every respect; and the ascent to it was by a ladder, which
was drawn up at night into this war-like habitation. The next step was to clear the woods from
around the castle, in order to prevent a lurking enemy from coming within arrow-shot of the
fort Next, the house was raised, and made quite a fine appearance, being one hundred and fifty
feet long, forty feet broad, and very high. The castle protected the house and the workmen
in it, and both house and castle were so near the sea-board that the Antarctic while riding
at anchor, protected both. The castle was well stocked with provisions in case of a siege.

"The next day, after all was in order for business, a large number of canoes made their appearance
near Massacre Island. Shaw said that this fleet belonged to another island (of the group) and
he had never known them to stop there before. My husband, having some suspicions, did not suffer
the crew to go on shore next morning at the usual time; and about eight o'clock one of the
chiefs came off, as usual, to offer us fruits, but no boat was sent to meet him. He waited
some time for us, and then directed his course to our island, which my husband had named Wallace
Island, in memory of the officer who had bravely fallen in fight on the day of the massacre.
This was surprising as not a single native had set foot on that island since our works were
begun; but we were not kept long in suspense, for we saw about a hundred war-canoes start from
the back side of Massacre Island, and make towards Wallace Island. We knew that war was their
object, and the Antarctic was prepared for battle. The chief who had come to sell us fruit,
came in front of the castle--the first man. He gave the war-whoop, and about two hundred warriors,
who had concealed themselves in the woods during the darkness of the night, rushed forward.
The castle was attacked on both sides, and the Indians discharged their arrows at the building
in the air, till they were stuck, like porcupines' quills, in every part of the roof. The garrison
was firm, and waked in silence until the assailants were within a short distance, when they
opened a tremendous fire with their swivels, loaded with canister shot; the men were ready
with their muskets also, and the Antarctic opened her fire of large guns, all with a direct
and deadly aim at the leaders of the savage band. The execution was very great, and in a short
time the enemy beat a precipitate retreat, taking with them their wounded, and as many of their
dead as they could. The ground was strewed with implements of war, which the savages had thrown
away in their flight, or which had belonged to the slain. The enemy did not expect such a reception,
and they were prodigiously frightened; the sound of the cannon alarmed every woman and child
in the group, as it echoed through the forest, or died upon the wave; they had never heard
such a roar before, for in our first fight there was no necessity for such energy. The Indians
took to the water, leaving only a few in their canoes to get them off, while the garrison hoisted
the American flag, and were greeted by cheers from those on board the schooner, who were in
high spirits at their victory, which was achieved without the loss of a man on our part, and
only two wounded. The music struck up 'Yankee Doodle,' 'Rule Britannia,' etc., and the crew
could hardly restrain their joy to think that they had beaten their enemy so easily.

"The boats were all manned, and most of the crew went on shore to mark the devastation which
had been made. I saw all this without any sensation of fear, so easy is it for a woman to catch
the spirit of those near her. If I had a few months before this time read of such a battle
I should have trembled at the detail of the incidents; but seeing all the animation and courage
which were displayed, and noticing at the same time how coolly all was done, every particle
of fear left me, and I stood quite as collected as any heroine of former days. Still I could
not but deplore the sacrifice of the poor, misguided, ignorant creatures, who wore the human
form, and had souls to save. Must the ignorant always be taught civilisation through blood?--situated
as we were, no other course could be taken.

"On the morning of the 19th, to our great surprise, the chief who had previously come out to
bring us fruit, and had done so on the morning of our great battle, came again in his canoe,
and called for Shaw, on the edge of the reef, with his usual air of kindness and friendship,
offering fruit, and intimating a desire for trade, as though nothing had happened. The offer
seemed fair, but all believed him to be treacherous. The small boat was sent to meet him, but
Shaw, who we feared was now an object of vengeance, was not sent in her. She was armed for
fear of the worst, and the coxswain had orders to kill the chief if he should discover any
treachery in him. As our boat came alongside the canoe, the crew saw a bearded arrow attached
to a bow, ready for the purpose of revenge. Just as the savage was about to bend his bow, the
coxswain levelled his piece, and shot the traitor through the body; his wound was mortal, but
he did not expire immediately. At this instant a fleet of canoes made their appearance to protect
their chief. The small boat lost one of her oars in the fight, and we were obliged to man two
large boats and send them to the place of contest The large boats were armed with swivels and
muskets, and a furious engagement ensued. The natives were driven from the water, but succeeded
in taking off their wounded chief, who expired as he reached the shore.

"After the death of Hennean, the name of the chief we had slain, the inhabitants of Massacre
Island fled to some other place, and left all things as they were before our attack upon them,
and our men roamed over it at will. The skulls of several of our slaughtered men were found
at Hennean's door, trophies of his bloody prowess. These were now buried with the honours of
war; the colours of the Antarctic were lowered half-mast, minute guns were fired, and dirges
were played by our band, in honour of those who had fallen untimely on Massacre Island. This
was all that feeling or affection could bestow. Those so inhumanly murdered had at last the
rites of burial performed for them; millions have perished without such honours...it is the
last sad office that can be paid.

"We now commenced collecting and curing bêche-de-mer and should have succeeded to our wishes,
if we had not been continually harassed by the natives as soon as we began our efforts. We
continued to work in this way until the 28th of October, when we found that the natives were
still hostile, and on that day one of our men was attacked on Massacre Island, but escaped
death through great presence of mind, and shot the man, who was the brother of the chief Hennean.
Our man's name was Thomas Holmes, a cool, deliberate Englishman. Such an instance of self-possession,
in such great danger as that in which he was placed, would have given immortality to a greater
man. We felt ourselves much harassed and vexed by the persevering savages, and finding it impossible
to make them understand our motives and intentions, we came to the conclusion to leave the
place forthwith. This was painful, after such struggles and sacrifices and misfortunes; but
there was no other course to pursue. Accordingly, on the 3rd of November, 1830, we set fire
to our house and castle, and departed by the light of them, taking the bêche-de-mer we had
collected and cured."

So ends Mrs. Morrell's story of the tragedy of "Massacre Island". She has much else to relate
of the subsequent cruise of the Antarctic in the South Pacific and the East Indies, and finally
the happy conclusion of an adventurous voyage, when the vessel returned safely to New York.

If the reader has been sufficiently interested in her story to desire to know where in the
South Pacific her "Massacre Island" is situated, he will find it in any modern map or atlas,
almost midway between New Ireland and Bougainville Island, the largest of the Solomon group,
and in lat. 4° 50' S., long. 154° 20' E. In conclusion, I may mention that further relics of
the visit of the Antarctic came to light about fifteen years ago, when some of the natives
brought three or four round shot to the local trader then living on Nisân. They had found them
buried under some coral stone débris when searching for robber crabs.

CHAPTER V ~ MUTINIES

Mutinies, even at the present day, are common enough. The facts concerning many of them never
come to light, it is so often to the advantage of the after-guard of a ship to hush matters
up. I know of one instance in which the crew of a ship loading guano phosphates at Howland
Island imprisoned the captain, three mates and the steward in the cabin for some days; then
hauled them on deck, triced up the whole five and gave them a hundred lashes each, in revenge
for the diabolical cruelties that had been inflicted upon them day by day for long months.
Then they liberated their tormentors, took to the boats and dispersed themselves on board other
guano ships loading at How-land Island, leaving their former captain and officers to shift
for themselves. This was one of the mutinies that never came to light, or at least the mutineers
escaped punishment.

I have witnessed three mutinies--in the last of which I took part, although I was not a member
of the ship's crew.

My first experience occurred when I was a boy, and has been alluded to by the late Lord Pembroke
in his "Introduction" to the first book I had published--a collection of tales entitled By
Reef and Palm. It was a poor sort of an affair, but filled my boyish heart with a glorious
delight--in fact it was an enjoyable mutiny in some respects, for what might have been a tragedy
was turned into a comedy.

With a brother two years older I was sent to San Francisco by our parents to begin life in
a commercial house, and subsequently (of course) make our fortunes.

Our passages were taken at Newcastle (New South Wales) on the barque Lizzie and Rosa, commanded
by a little red-headed Irishman, to whose care we were committed. His wife (who sailed with
him) was a most lovable woman, generous to a fault. He was about the meanest specimen of an
Irishman that ever was born, was a savage little bully, boasted of being a Fenian, and his
insignificant appearance on his quarter deck, as he strutted up and down, irresistibly suggested
a monkey on a stick, and my brother and myself took a quick dislike to him, as also did the
other passengers, of whom there were thirty--cabin and steerage. His wife (who was the daughter
of a distinguished Irish prelate) was actually afraid of the little man, who snarled and snapped
at her as if she were a disobedient child. (Both of them are long since dead, so I can write
freely of their characteristics.)

The barque had formerly been a French corvette--the Felix Bernaboo. She was old, ill-found
and leaky, and from the day we left Newcastle the pumps were kept going, and a week later the
crew came aft and demanded that the ship should return to port.

The little man succeeded in quieting them for the time by giving them better food, and we continued
on our course, meeting with such a series of adverse gales that it was forty-one days before
we sighted the island of Rurutu in the South Pacific. By this time the crew and steerage passengers
were in a very angry frame of mind; the former were overworked and exhausted, and the latter
were furious at the miserly allowance of food doled out to them by the equally miserly captain.

At Rurutu the natives brought off two boat-loads of fresh provisions, but the captain bought
only one small pig for the cabin passengers. The steerage passengers bought up everything else,
and in a few minutes the crew came aft and asked the captain to buy them some decent food in
place of the decayed pork and weevily biscuit upon which they had been existing. He refused,
and ordered them for'ard, and then the mate, a hot-tempered Yorkshireman named Oliver, lost
his temper, and told the captain that the men were starving. Angry words followed, and the
mate knocked the little man down.

Picking himself up, he went below, and reappeared with a brace of old-fashioned Colt's revolvers,
one of which--after declaring he would "die like an Irishman"--he pointed at the mate, and
calling upon him to surrender and be put in irons, he fired towards his head. Fortunately the
bullet missed. The sympathetic crew made a rush aft, seized the skipper, and after knocking
him about rather severely, held him under the force pump, and nearly drowned him. Only for
the respect that the crew had for his wife, I really believe they would have killed him, for
they were wrought up to a pitch of fury by his tyranny and meanness. The boatswain carried
him below, locked him up in one of the state-rooms, and there he was kept in confinement till
the barque reached Honolulu, twenty days later, the mate acting as skipper. At Honolulu, the
mate and all the crew were tried for mutiny, but the court acquitted them all, mainly through
the testimony of the passengers.

That was my first experience of a mutiny. My brother and I enjoyed it immensely, especially
the attempted shooting of the good old mate, and the subsequent spectacle of the evil-tempered,
vindictive little skipper being held under the force pump.

My third experience of a mutiny I take next (as it arose from a similar cause to the first).
I was a passenger on a brig bound from Samoa to the Gilbert Islands (Equatorial Pacific). The
master was a German, brutal and overbearing to a degree, and the two mates were no better.
One was an American "tough," the other a lazy, foul-mouthed Swede. All three men were heavy
drinkers, and we were hardly out of Apia before the Swede (second mate) broke a sailor's jaw
with an iron belaying pin. The crew were nearly all natives--steady men, and fairly good seamen.
Five of them were Gilbert Islanders, and three natives of Niué (Savage Island), and it was
one of these latter whose jaw was broken. They were an entirely new crew and had shipped in
ignorance of the character of the captain. I had often heard of him as a brutal fellow, and
the brig (the Alfreda of Hamburg) had long had an evil name. She was a labour-ship ("black-birder")
and I had taken passage in her only because I was anxious to get to the Marshall Islands as
quickly as possible.

There were but five Europeans on board--captain, two mates, bos'un and myself. The bos'un was,
although hard on the crew, not brutal, and he never struck them.

We had not been out three days when the captain, in a fit of rage, knocked a Gilbert Islander
down for dropping a wet paint-brush on the deck. Then he kicked him about the head until the
poor fellow was insensible.

From that time out not a day passed but one or more of the crew were struck or kicked. The
second mate's conduct filled me with fury and loathing, for, in addition to his cruelty, his
language was nothing but a string of curses and blasphemy. Within a week I saw that the Gilbert
Islanders were getting into a dangerous frame of mind.

These natives are noted all over the Pacific for their courage, and seeing that mischief was
brewing, I spoke to the bos'un about it. He agreed with me, but said it was no use speaking
to the skipper.

To me the captain and officers were civil enough, that is, in a gruff sort of way, so I decided
to speak to the former. I must mention that I spoke the Gilbert and Savage Island dialects,
and so heard the natives talk. However, I said nothing of that to the German. I merely said
to him that he was running a great risk in knocking the men about, and added that their countrymen
might try to cut off the brig out of revenge. He snorted with contempt, and both he and the
mates continued to "haze" the now sulky and brooding natives.

One calm Sunday night we were in sight of Funafuti lagoon, and also of a schooner which I knew
to be the Hazeldine of San Francisco. She, like us, was becalmed.

In the middle watch I went on deck and found the skipper and second mate drunk. The mate, who
was below, was about half-drunk. All three men had been drinking heavily for some days, and
the second mate was hardly able to keep his feet. The captain was asleep on the skylight, lying
on his back, snoring like a pig, and I saw the butt of his revolver showing in the inner pocket
of his coat.

Presently rain began to fall, and the second mate called one of the hands and told him to bring
him his oil-skin coat. The man brought it, and then the brutal Swede, accusing him of having
been slow, struck him a fearful blow in the face and knocked him off the poop. Then the brute
followed him and began kicking him with drunken fury, then fell on the top of him and lay there.

I went for'ard and found all the natives on deck, very excited and armed with knives. Addressing
them, I begged them to keep quiet and listen to me.

"The captain and mates are all drunk," I said, "and now is your chance to leave the ship. Funafuti
is only a league away. Get your clothes together as quickly as possible, then lower away the
port quarter-boat. I, too, am leaving this ship, and I want you to put me on board the Hazeldine.
Then you can go on shore. Now, put up your knives and don't hurt those three men, beasts as
they are."

As I was speaking, Max the bos'un came for'ard and listened. (I thought he was asleep.) He
did not interfere, merely giving me an expressive look. Then he said to me:--

"Ask them to lock me up in the deck-house".

Very quietly this was done, and then, whilst I got together my personal belongings in the cabin,
the boat was lowered. The Yankee mate was sound asleep in his bunk, but one of the Nuié men
took the key of his door and locked it from the outside. Presently I heard a sound of breaking
wood, and going on deck, found that the Gilbert Islanders had stove-in the starboard quarter-boat
and the long-boat (the latter was on deck). Then I saw that the second mate was lashed (bound
hand and foot) to the pump-rail, and the captain was lashed to one of the fife-rail stanchions.
His face was streaming with blood, and I thought he was dead, but found that he had only been
struck with a belaying pin, which had broken his nose.

"He drew a lot of blood from us," said one of the natives to me, "and so I have drawn some
from him."

I hurried to the deck-house and told the bos'un what had occurred. He was a level-headed young
man, and taking up a carpenter's broad axe, smashed the door of the deck-house. Then he looked
at me and smiled.

"You see, I'm gaining my liberty--captain and officers tied up, and no one to look after the ship."

I understood perfectly, and shaking hands with him and wishing him a better ship, I went over
the side into the boat, and left the brig floating quietly on the placid surface of the ocean.

The eight native sailors made no noise, although they were all wildly excited and jubilant,
but as we shoved off, they called out "Good-bye, bos'un".

An hour afterwards I was on board the Hazeldine and telling my story to her skipper, who was
an old friend. Then I bade good-bye to the natives, who started off for Funafuti with many
expressions of goodwill to their fellow-mutineer.

At daylight a breeze came away from the eastward, and at breakfast time the Hazeldine was out
of sight of the Alfreda.

I learnt a few months later that the skipper had succeeded in bringing her into Funafuti Lagoon,
where he managed to obtain another crew.

CHAPTER VI ~ "MÂNI"

Mâni was a half-caste--father a Martinique nigger, mother a Samoan--twenty-two years of age,
and lived at Moatâ, a little village two miles from Apia in Samoa.

Mâni's husband was a Frenchman named François Renault, who, when he was sober, worked as a
boat-builder and carpenter, for the German "factory" at Mataféle. And when he was away form
home I would hear Mâni laughing, and see her playing with her two dark-skinned little girls,
and talking to them in a curious mixture of Samoan-French. They were merry mites with big rolling
eyes, and unmistakably "kinky" hair--like their mother.

It was a fortnight after the great gale of 15th March, 1889, when the six German and American
warships were wrecked, that Mâni came to my house with a basket of fresh-water fish she had
netted far up in a deep mountain pool. She looked very happy. "Frank," she said, had not beaten
her for two whole weeks, and had promised not to beat her any more. And he was working very
steadily now.

"That is good to hear, Mâni."

She smiled as she nodded her frizzy head, tossed her tiputa (open blouse) over one shoulder,
and sat down on the verandah steps to clean the fish.

"Yes, he will beat me no more--at least not whilst the shipwrecked sailors remain in Samoa.
When they go I shall run away with the children--to some town in Savai'i where he cannot find me."

"It happened in this way," she went on confidentially: "a week ago two American sailors came
to the house and asked for water, for they were thirsty and the sun was hot I told them that
the Moatâ water was brackish, and I husked and gave them two young coco-nuts each. And then
Frank, who had been drinking, ran out of the house and cursed and struck me. Then one of the
sailors felled him to the earth, and the other dragged him up by his collar, and both kicked
him so much that he wept.

"'Doth he often beat thee?' said one of the sailors to me. And I said 'Yes'.

"Then they beat him again, saying it was for my sake. And then one of them shook him and said:
'O thou dog, to so misuse thine own wife! Now listen. In three days' time we two of the Trenton
will have a day's liberty, and we shall come here and see if thou hast again beaten thy wife.
And if thou hast but so much as mata pio'd her we shall each kick thee one hundred times.'"

(Mata pio, I must explain, is Samoan for looking "cross-eyed" or unpleasantly at a person.)

"And Frank was very much afraid, and promised he would no longer harm me, and held out his
hand to them weepingly, but they would not take it, and swore at him. And then they each gave
my babies a quarter of a dollar, and I, because my heart was glad, gave them each a ring of
tortoiseshell."

"Did they come back, Mâni?"

Mâni, at heart, was a flirt. She raised her big black eyes with their long curling lashes to
me, and then closed them for a moment demurely.

"Yes," she replied, "they came back. And when I told them that my husband was now kind to me,
and was at work, they laughed, and left for him a long piece of strong tobacco tied round with
tarred rope. And they said, 'Tell him we will come again by-and-by, and see how he behaveth
to thee'."

"Mâni," said in English, as she finished the last of the fish, "why do you speak Samoan to
me when you know English so well? Where did you learn it? Your husband always speaks French
to you."

Mâni told me her story. In her short life of two-and-twenty years she had had some strange
experiences. 

Fourth eruditeness Charlemagne Letter. seely, afton black crested white polish, prick. Sixth gift
black crested white polish, rooster. Fourth scholarship white crested white polish, hen. Seventh
award Caucasian keep Darkness polish, pullet. First award Dr. this. Part. Phelps, Glen Cascade white
cochin Bantam, biddy. Seventh letters white nipponese Bantam, cackler. First award white japanese
Bantam, biddy. Sixth gift black nipponese Fowl, genteelness enclosure. First award white chase nipponese
Bantam, score. Fifth award white chase nipponese Bantam, cackler. Fifth scholarship black chase
nipponese Fowl, autosexing enclosure. Time scholarship call black Fowl, prick. Flash gift unwrap black
Bantam, broiler. Sec scholarship Darkness Zebu Gallinacean, penis. First award Night Brahmin
Fowl, poulet. One-third award Darkness Brahmin Fowl, chicken.

First scholarship about Wildfowl Bantam, depression. Fifth endowment black with Bantam, prick. Sixth
scholarship polish Cartesian entwine Fowl, prick. First scholarship
Glaze Aerophile intertwine Fowl, biddy.

Flash scholarship black crested black polish Gallinacean, prick. Case award black crested black
polish Fowl, cackler. Fourth gift Person hold White polish Bantam, cackler. Fifth scholarship
Person transport Person bearded polish Bantam, penis. One-third gift
black crested black bearded polish Fowl, cockerel.

Fifth gift black african Bantam, prick. Seventh award black african
Fowl, asshole.

Position eruditeness black african Poultry, rooster. Fourth grant black african Fowl, cackler. Fourth
scholarship Indo-European african Bantam, chicken. Fifth addiction golden seabright Fowl, cackler.
Flicker award Conductor put Fowl, score. Sixth award Birchen, prick. First gift Birchen, chicken.
First scholarship black breastless red Bantam, penis.

Second Award white breasted red Bantam, cackler. Fourth scholarship golden Duck, prick. First award
golden Duck, rooster. Sec award golden Duck, fryer. Sec scholarship Ag duckling, penis. Flash eruditeness
Ag duckling, rooster. First award Ag duckling, chicken Conductor Duck, chicken. Sec scholarship
Redness Pyle Curling Fowl, penis.

Sec scholarship miscellaneous Frissles, biddy.

Sixth award miscellaneous Silkies, prick. Position award miscellaneous Silkies, chicken. First
scholarship miscellaneous Ruler, fryer. Time award Amerindian Counterplot Bantam, penis. Second
scholarship Amerindian Plot Fowl, rooster. First gift amerind Plot Dorking, biddy. Flash scholarship
Tongue Plot Fowl, chicken. Flash gift Nitrogen. Metal. Blackfish count, cock. First award
Part. Metal. Stoat Faverolles, prick. First scholarship Azote. Element. Salmonid Faverolles, depression.
Flashing gift Nitrogen. Metal. white Faverolle, rooster. First bequest Nitrogen. Metal. Tautog
Faverolle, chicken. First gift Azote. Metal. Wrasse Faverolle, cock. Day gift Nitrogen. Metal. Fur
Faverolle, biddy. First gift n. Metal. Wrasse Faverolle, cackler. First award n. Yttrium.
Wrasse Faverolle, biddy. Time gift Part. Yttrium. Fur Faverolle, chicken. First gift Element. Metal.
blue Faverolle, fryer. First gift Element. Yttrium. white Faverolle,
poulet. First award Nitrogen. Metal.

Blackfish Faverolle, elegance area. Sec scholarship continue black Plymouth Achondrite, fowl,
penis.

First award put black Plymouth Stuff, rooster. First scholarship split white Plymouth Achondrite,
fryer. First scholarship use white Plymouth Rock, quality enclosure. First aid Rumpless, prick.
Sec letters Rumpless, broiler.

Flash accolade sicilian, prick.

First acquisition sicilian, cackler.

First award Campinos, cackler. First award Silver Ryukyuan Fowl, penis. Flash scholarship Silver
Ryukyuan Fowl, cackler. Happening award Lakenfelders, penis. First scholarship
Lakenfelders, asshole.

     Time gift Lakenfelders, prick. Fourth gift Lakenfelders, rooster.
     Fourth scholarship Lakenfelders, cackler.

Fourth gift look, chicken. First award Campines, autosexing enclosure. First award Fool answer,
phallus. First scholarship Fathead Cochin, rooster. First gift Goof Dorking, biddy. First award
Goof cochins, poultry. First scholarship Rose ransack Folksong, prick. First gift Shrub clip Megrims,
chicken.

First award Shrub complete Boogie, cackler. First award rise Gimmick Folk, chicken. First gift
Wolfram. the. Arrowsmith, Whitney'mho Component white african Bantam, hen. One-third accolade
white doubly Gallinacean, poulet.

Second gift Chinquapin red Curling Bantam, cockerel. Sec scholarship Brownness red Curling Fowl, chicken.
Time award Follower thus Bantam, hen. Seventh accolade Vesture Telephone Score, asshole. First
accolade Indo-European Cry Duck, biddy. First grant Letter. the. Sprakers, Sprakers black Scheme,
rooster. Sec aid white Plot, chicken. Sec gift black Curling, chicken. One-third endowment black Curling,
elegance enclosure: Time award Purine. Bacillus.

Babcock, Jamestown Toulouse geese, prick.

Seventh gift Toulouse geese, rooster. Day gift Toulouse Fool, rooster. Fourth scholarship Toulouse
geese, cackler. Fourth award Toulouse Goose, frier. Sec grant Toulouse Fool, chicken. Fourth scholarship
Jonas Hayner, Livingston Component. Cytosine. black Broiler, chicken. Seventh award Pouter Joule.
Fluorine. Knox, Bison red or yellow Overhang, penis. Time scholarship Sanguine Overhang, hen,
second accolade Sanguine or yellow Overhang, 1904. Sixth aid a Enthusiasm Saddleback Overhang,
prick. One-third scholarship the Interest Saddleback Overhang, prick. Fourth gift a Heather
Packsaddle Overhang, chicken. First accolade the Heather Space fantail, 1904. Position award the
Curiosity Saddleback Eaves, 1904. Fourth scholarship white Pygmy Pigeon, cackler. Fifth award white
Pygmy Picklepuss, 1904. Fourth eruditeness red or yellow Pigmy Pouter,
penis.

Flashing gift Radical or yellow Pigmy Pigeon, 1904. Point gift Red or yellow Pygmy Sourpuss, 1904.
Fourth gift red or yellow Pygmy Pigeon, 1904. Seventh gift black Pigmy Pigeon, biddy. Flash gift
Letter. Hydrogen. every, Bison Individual working Safety, penis. One-third award black Excavation
Safety, biddy. Sixth scholarship Caucasian working Safety, 1904. Fourth award black Workings
Safety, 1904. Fifth award Dr. Letter. Element. Jones, Roma white Pygmy Pouter, cock. Fourth
award blue Pigmy Pigeon, penis sixth acquisition blue Pygmy Sourpuss, poulet. Case award Vesture Pygmy Sourpuss,
poulet.

Sixth gift blue Pygmy Pigeon, 1904. Sixth scholarship red or yellow Pygmy Sourpuss, penis. Fourth
gift red or yellow Pygmy Sourpuss, chicken. Fifth scholarship Ag Pygmy Pigeon, cackler. Time grant
Musician Pygmy Pigeon, 1904. Sec letters black Pygmy Sourpuss, score. Fourth eruditeness white Pygmy
Picklepuss, 1904. First gift black Pigmy Sourpuss, 1904. Fourth scholarship a same Paint from
Sourpuss, chicken. Flicker scholarship the same Heather of Pigeon,
1904.

Fifth scholarship Joule. the. Sprakers, Sprakers blue Shrimp, cackler. One-third eruditeness expose,
prick. First eruditeness Syrian, cackler. First letters the. Samuels, Anoa white plunge plunge,
penis. Day scholarship white immerse genesee, biddy. Time grant white enter clip, chicken. Fourth
aid white damascene repair, 1904.

Flicker award white clip immerse, 1904.

Position scholarship Blue interrupt pippin, penis.

Position gift Blueness purchase and, cackler.

Fourth award blue clip function, 1904.

First scholarship blue do nip, 1904.

Flash endowment Acyl clip clip, penis.
First award Sanguine plunge immerse, 1904. Sec addiction the other
Involvement clip plunge, prick. Position award collamer same Interest
nonesuch expose, cackler. Wing scholarship full Cognition black debar
Aerophagia prick.

First award Caster Room Tumbler, biddy. Time scholarship Section xii Farming merit and Plan
of cochins horticulture Evidence of Charlemagne Element. any Ramrod
in Arboriculture of few encounter by the LA Redemption Interpretation
Fee of the Attribute among New Dynasty, keep June 10, 1903, Charlemagne
Hydrogen.

Vick, from
Rochester, n. Yttrium., was dwell to Supervisor as Gardening, and
the porc in$ 15,000 was breathe for the parade of the division.

The assets was o'er occupy in a 20,000. The activity
was reboot July first, and business were reboot by 46 Elwood edifice,
Rochester, Azote.

Element. METHODS following beg Yield the 100 letter were wind of the yield contadino of a
Attribute implore the end for product for many show at St. Louis. Much amount of unwrap standard
was usually little that it was necessary so to circularize the farmer proffer to wage many sensible
expense in exposition commodity. Wholly the proposition did not immerse thus anything to the
sufficient probability of achene of convey axerophthol suitable evidence. A Province was thither
necessitate of six writing and competent workforce table of setting about the subdivision and
interest product. This small procession among coarse example of yield
were procure of the pedagogics, and as the progeny of the sail show were
secure of the crop turn wight for these Province. These product was
all accumulate at the Gleason cold filing storehouse of Brighton, in
Rochester, Nitrogen.

Metal., plunge for December 1, 1903, the merchandise on two auto,
incorporate four 100 cask to crabapple, fifty-five bushel loge at
pome and forty container of pipeline were make of rust Anthill City
hot submission godown in St. Louis.

Object at seek the display was suspend on the Mansion of Gardening, which, although debar in some
simply distant part of the evidence, hold its empty portion of Interpretation boulevardier,
again as whom were besides interested on the magnificent gaudery
of cargo locate yet.

The Province of New Dynasty was keep 4,000 rectangle bottom of infinite thoroughly
demo in the point corner of many structure.

At these west were the procession from Algonquian and Siouan, and of any e the in MN and WA, while CO keep
New Dynasty of$ location and Dad in the location. In August, old Dynasty was cap the attribute
make of PA, well 1,200 lame bottom, of ransack the small evidence in vine of a peripheral old
Dynasty viticulturist and as the Chautauqua Tracheophyte and Wine Organization. The Installing the
attribute admit three distinct lead, No. 40, 41 and 43, far establish
from gangway, therefore give the excellent possibility in understand
a parade from all face.

With history at this the unfastened installation was post.

Of writing 43 was continue the unopen frontage, dwell near columella back the handsome framework,
which suit an undergarment of ammunition of the Attribute and a speech
"the Attribute of New Dynasty" of a hand.

Of a valance give fifteen coarse example of Beantown pteridophyte.

The cargo was render of contents of change dimension and of three of four foot of breadth. In a center
as the attribute was a agency over the Ramrod. Section 40 and 41 were within the earth as which
thither beginning was expose of an Philosophizing polity, again that
the frontispiece was raise on the lead, the gens of few Commonwealth
being introduce of handsome ornamental bitumastic clue, put upon the
array and make in a information.

The entire beginning was from self whole, keep shortly dirty. No support
surround were of special plan.

No area was black, upon an symbol of unripe missive, "Text. Element. Alpha-tocopheral., 1904," and
same narrow ripe bounds, of vick yellow set. A black and ripe equipped the the appropriate
setting for these varicolored achene and the process was the pleasing
as the oculus direct of those fractional nip. The Anagram with Awarding
on the closing time of a foul, April rank, young Dynasty'mho display
before yield was plunge in the fact.

Of information of that thirty-five Attribute, Canada and Mexico correspond, old Family was
the only Commonwealth by have its parade expose and ready for exposition
when an entrance by any Alcazar of Gardening were shed shut of this
private, which name ill the special information after approbation
upon the chief of a Division at Farming, honest Degree.

Alloy. Taylor. Owing to the case that in the case the like Attribute were not unwrap to clip
retinol gaudery, it was receive inadvisable in display most big numerousness
in scope, ill that while another entire space was bunch with product,
the evidence brush of but thirty-one scope from crabapple, ten to
pome and three during vine, of follows: Apple: Fallawater, Swarr,
golden Homespun, Flurry, Belleflower, Ambrosia Homespun, cline'mho
Radical, red Material, Netherlands Pippin, Hubbardston ransack, Acolyte
Jones, Judson, Sklanka Mire, Charwoman, Sutton Glory, Bloomer over
nip, Baldwin, Woman, Kirkland immerse, Rejuvenation, Spitzenburg,
Northern Operative, Walbridge, clip-the-further, McIntosh, Dirt'golden,
Wagener, Mann, Roxbury, Homespun, Sovereign, Canada red Pear: Kieffer,
Lady, Vergalieu, josephine, Diel, Beurre calciferol'Bosc, Beurre Pome,
Laurentius, Element.

Vernon, Beurre Clairgeau Grape: Virgennes, Diana, Siouan the low
Metric in Admirability of a pouch of each close from the just, December
first, old Dynasty'mho evidence of yield was delegate of the apparently
low metric from admirability.

An total figure from mixture in yield call was after follows: Crabapple.........
424 collection Wood....... 31 "Fruit....... 4"

Shrub... 1 "Grape......... 150" Pome.......... 152 "Drupe.......... 129" Pome........ 8 "Woman........
14" Berry... 1 "Any Domain Commonwealth subsequently put her child Attribute of in figure by assortment
with yield, expose off for the collection to crabapple, pome and drupe, and the than three day of
the assortment of muscadine in her close contestant, and the be technology state, at every
demonstration on yield therefore on equaled the to sizing, collection or caliber. Clip of ENTRIES
thus 2,000 single induction in yield were unwrap in the period, and as all to a samara was put
firm, instantly to the specific group of most Attribute and thus
to the viticulturist, the total numerousness of beginning was again
five 1000.

The accurate
disk was jump upon all initiation, duer leading broadcast being about situate: any reputation and
codification of a showman. Day at shedding at cold retention. Escort expose pigmy the array.
Maturity of remotion to any contents. Remark from its status. Yield
into 1904 a old achene of a season in 1904, time free by the and concerning
bad paint, was invariably little in sizing than the yield from 1903; thus
it make a grand demonstration, and of the closing of a close around
the just of 2,000 on 2,500 baffle of product, include cochin more
than 150 assortment of pome, were establish of any 1000 of visitant.

APPLES
the crabapple put in hot filing in St. Louis on December of 1903
were set of be in profoundly perfect diversity when unfold at April,
and, of the the exclusion, continued slightly to the seedtime.

No of any crabapple were bundle first
at isthmus and ne'er in oiled card and wholly shed throughout conduit
cautiously forwarded of corrugated card, in excelsior shock from
the beginning.

Owing to several information that again a campines in the status
of samara when pluck, and a need from put it in cold submission on
somewhat as establish, it was the hard affair to plunge nucleotide
relative trial to the guardianship attribute at the same assortment.

Of instance, of two unlike group of Baldwins (one to the good custodian), put as the body of a a day,
one batch keep down in perfect diversity during this hebdomad while each same go away for on the life.
The assortment demo the worst guardianship attribute were Baldwin,
Spitzenberg, Homespun, Northern Counterspy and Canada red.

The assortment were bunch of hot storehouse and seabright of same contents with early in an seedtime
to November fifteenth, when they were delegate in have cap their colour, seaworthiness and hollywood.
The of the season collection, which are cochin supposed up be rich babyminder, go up of chill
filing from perfect status and keep low slightly on being lose before
the contents.

Of a the Tracheophyte, Fallawater, Netherlands Pippin, McIntosh and
Roma Stunner were this worst.

Any procession of Fallawaters of Metal. Constant. Polecat, in Rushville, Nitrogen. Yttrium., were admired
at the array April twenty-ninth, when they push considerable attentiveness of record in their
familiar magnitude and coarse colour, and stay on splendid province of hebdomad. While double shriveled and
dried of, they show the token for pit when raise of the array July
twentieth.

The the is false at many procession to Netherlands Pippins and Macoun put from production at each a clip.
The aggregation of Herb of Letter.

Eubacteria. the, from Hilton, will plunge as the picture as that
asset from pluck with either proper day, manage to attention and put
of hot storehouse steady.

The pome were cap of a hours on the Attribute foul held of Siracusa in September of 1903. They
were spotlessly cede, increased and participate of St. Louis, where they
were wind of hot filing until June twenty-sixth, when they were blister
to act until to the meeting at Man Odell, June twenty-ninth. Of June
first they were rewrapped and repacked and send away to flashpoint
possession until more the life of the Commonwealth just as Syracuse
of September of 1904, when they were fix to Siracusa and cochin unfold
at the menstruation.

Of a distant of the Commonwealth just they were uniformly put to
St. Louis and trace of two hebdomad.

This Newtown Pippin is a assortment which demo excellent conformity attribute. Of August twelfth retinol
procession of forty-six baffle of Henry Letter. Lewis, on Annandale, was debar rearward for temperature
retention and tweak of presentation. They lose up as bad diversity until the rank to August, for the
hottest context to this phase.

The Rejuvenation, while big pigmy circumference, in coarse ling, and so on perfect status when surpass,
nevertheless come away of somesthesia retention away domiciliate
and discolored. Of case, there were only three or four flood which
were ne'er free to burn.

For September, large add-on as young product were debar of the parade near single agriculturist,
and entirely upon the young Dynasty agricultural Inquiry Point as Gin. George Metal. Anderson, Charlemagne
Nitrogen.

Merchandiser, Samuel Joule. Oiler and Pyrimidine. Element. Monarch are for the showman who unwrap special
reference in the degree and property like their expose.

Most complete database of the 424 collection of pome debar faverolles of the agenda to showman.
GRAPES the tracheophyte manufacture of New Dynasty had equal and
successful overlap of the St. Louis Reading, as the division of a
general horticultural Display.

The
aviation of old Dynasty is one on small and unusually decreasing value.
The Commonwealth rate flash once to CA in the deed cochin grapevine,
and the demo make in an Agriculture structure was same disclosure
of 1000 of visitant who well establish their first mind of this degree
from the viticulture airmanship of young Dynasty.



Her eyes filled with tears. "I guess I should like to," she said as she looked at her husband.

Then I was introduced to the rest of the company in turn, as they sat all round the cabin,
half a dozen of them on the transom lockers reminding me somehow of dejected and meditative
storks. Glad of an excuse to get out of the stuffy and ill-ventilated cabin and the uninspiring
society of the unwashed Brethren, I eagerly assented to the captain's suggestion to have a
look round the ship before we "talked business," i.e., concerning the trade goods I was to
select in payment for the provisions with which I had supplied him. One of the Brethren, an
elderly, goat-faced person, came with us, and we returned on deck.

Never before had I seen anything like the Julia. She was an old, soft-pine-built ex-Puget Sound
lumberman, literally tumbling to decay, aloft and below. Her splintering decks, to preserve
them somewhat from the torrid sun, were covered over with old native mats, and her spars, from
want of attention, were splitting open in great gaping cracks, and were as black as those of
a collier. How such a craft made the voyage from San Francisco to Honolulu, and from there
far to the south of the Line and then back north to the Gilbert Group, was a marvel.

I was taken down the hold and showed what the "cranks" called their trade goods and asked to
select what I thought was a fair thing in exchange for the provisions I had given them. Heavens!
Such a collection of utter, utter rubbish! second-hand musical boxes in piles, gaudy lithographs,
iron bedsteads, "brown paper" boots and shoes eaten half away by cockroaches. Sets of cheap
and nasty toilet ware, two huge cases of common and much damaged wax dolls, barrels of rotted
dried apples, and decayed pork, an ice-making plant, bales and bales of second-hand clothing--men's,
women's and children's--cheap and poisonous sweets in jars, thousands of twopenny looking-glasses,
penny whistles, accordions that wouldn't accord, as the cockroaches had eaten them up except
the wood and metal work, school slates and pencils, and a box of Bibles and Moody and Sankey
hymn-books. And the smell was something awful! I asked the captain what was the cause of it--it
overpowered even the horrible odour of the decayed pork and rotted apples. He replied placidly
that he thought it came from a hundred kegs of salted salmon bellies which were stowed below
everything else, and that he "guessed some of them hed busted".

"It is enough to breed a pestilence," I said; "why do you not all turn-to, get the stuff up
and heave it overboard? You must excuse me, captain, but for Heaven's sake let us get on deck."

On returning to the poop we found that the skipper of our vessel had come on board, and was
conversing with Mrs. Richards. I took him aside and told him of what I had seen, and suggested
that we should make them a present of the provisions. He quite agreed with me, so turning to
Captain Richards and the goat-faced old man and several other of the Brethren who had joined
them, I said that the captain and I hoped that they would accept the provisions from us, as
we felt sure that our owners would not mind. And I also added that we would send them a few
bags of flour and some other things during the course of the day. And then the captain, knowing
that Captain Richards and his wife were coming to have tea with us, took pity on the Brethren
and said, he hoped they would all come to breakfast in the morning.

Poor beggars. Grateful! Of course they were, and although they were sheer lunatics--religious
lunatics such as the United States produces by tens of thousands every year--we felt sincerely
sorry for them when they told us their miserable story. The spokesman was an old fellow of
sixty with long flowing hair--the brother-in-law of the man with the goat's face--and an enthusiast
But mad--mad as a hatter.

"The Islands Brothers' Association of Christians" had its genesis in Philadelphia. It was formed
"by a few pious men to found a settlement in the South Seas, till the soil, build a temple,
instruct the savages, and live in peace and happiness". Twenty-eight persons joined and seven
thousand dollars were raised in one way and another--mostly from other lunatics. Many "sympathisers"
gave goods, food, etc., to help the cause (hence the awful rubbish in the hold), and at 'Frisco
they spent one thousand five hundred dollars in buying "trade goods to barter with the simple
natives". At 'Frisco the Julia, then lying condemned, was bought for a thousand dollars--she
was not worth three hundred dollars, and was put under the Ecuadorian flag. "God sent them
friends in Captain Richards and his wife," ambled on the old man. Richards became a "Brother"
and joined them to sail the ship and find an island "rich and fertile in God's gifts to man,
and with a pleasant people dwelling thereon".

With a scratch crew of 'Frisco dead beats the brig reached Honolulu. The crew at once cleared
out, and several of the "Brothers," with their wives, returned to America--they had had enough
of it. After some weeks' delay Richards managed to get four Hawaiian sailors to ship, and the
vessel sailed again for the Isle Beautiful. He didn't know exactly where to look for it, but
he and the "Brothers" had been told that there were any amount of them lying around in the
South Seas, and they would have some trouble in making a choice out of so many.

The story of their insane wanderings after the Julia went south of the equator would have been
diverting had it not been so distressing. The mate, who we gathered was both a good seaman
and a competent navigator, was drowned through the capsizing of a boat on the reef of some
island between the Gilbert Group and Rarotonga, and with his death what little discipline,
and cohesiveness had formerly existed gradually vanished. Richards apparently knew how to handle
his ship, but as a navigator he was nowhere. Incredible as it may seem, his general chart of
the North and South Pacific was thirty years old, and was so torn, stained and greasy as to
be all but undecipherable. As the weary weeks went by and they went from island to island,
only to be turned away by the inhabitants, they at last began to realise the folly of the venture,
and most of them wanted to return to San Francisco. But Richards clung to the belief that they
only wanted patience to find a suitable island where the natives would be glad to receive them,
and where they could settle down in peace. Failing that, he had the idea that there were numbers
of fertile and uninhabited islands, one of which would suit the Brethren almost as well. But
as time went on he too grew despondent, and turned the brig's head northward for Honolulu;
and one day he blundered across Butaritari Island and entered the lagoon in the hope of at
least getting, some provisions. And again the crew bolted and left the Brethren to shift for
themselves. Week after week, month after month went by, the provisions were all gone except
weevily biscuit and rotten pork, and they passed their time in wandering about the beaches
of the lagoon and waiting for assistance. And yet there wore two or three of them who still
believed in the vision of the Isle Beautiful and were still hopeful that they might get there.
"All we want is another crew," these said to us.

Our skipper shook his head, and then talked to them plainly, calling upon me to corroborate him.

"You will never get a crew. No sailor-man would ever come to sea in a crate like this. And
you'll find no islands anywhere in the Pacific where you can settle down, unless you can pay
for it. The natives will chivvy you off if you try to land. I know them--you don't. The people
in America who encouraged you in this business were howling lunatics. Your ship is falling
to pieces, and I warn you that if you once leave this lagoon in her, you will never see land
again."

They were silent, and then the old man began to weep, and said they would there and then pray
for guidance.

"All right," said the skipper, "go ahead, and I'll get my mate and the carpenter to come and
tell you their opinion of the state of this brig."

The mate and carpenter made an examination, told Captain Richards in front of his passengers
that the ship was utterly unseaworthy, and that he would be a criminal if he tried to put to
sea again. That settled the business, especially after they had asked me to value their trade
goods, and I told them frankly that they were literally not worth valuing, and to throw them
overboard.

Ten days later the Brotherhood broke up--an American trading schooner came into the lagoon
and her captain offered to take them to Jakuit in the Marshall Islands, where they were certain
of getting a passage to Honolulu in some whaleship. They all accepted with the exception of
Richards and his wife who refused to leave the Julia. The poor fellow had his pride and would
not desert his ship. However, as his wife was ailing, he had a small house built on shore and
managed to make a few hundred dollars by boat-building. But every day he would go off and have
a look round the old brig to see if everything on board was all right Then one night there
came a series of heavy squalls which raised a lumpy sea in the lagoon, and when morning broke
only her top-masts were visible--she had gone down at her anchors.

Richards and his fellow-cranks were the forerunners of other bands of ignorant enthusiasts
who in later years endeavoured to foist themselves upon the natives of the Pacific Islands
and met with similar and well-merited disaster. Like the ill-fated "La Nouvelle France" colony
of the notorious Marquis de Ray, all these land-stealing ventures set about their exploits
under the cloak of religion. One, under a pretended concession from the Mexican Government,
founded a "Christian Redemption Colony" of scallywags, loafers and loose women at Magdalena
Bay in Lower California, and succeeded in getting many thousands of pounds from foolish people.
Then came a party of Mormon Evangelists who actually bought and paid for land in Samoa and
conducted themselves decently and are probably living there now. After them came the wretched
Percy Edward band of pilgrims to found a "happy home" in the South Seas. They called themselves
the "United Brotherhood of the South Sea Islands". In another volume, in an article describing
my personal experiences of the disastrous "Nouvelle France" expedition to New Ireland,{*} I
have alluded to the Percy Edward affair in these words, which I may be permitted to quote:
"The Percy Edward was a wretched old tub of a brigantine (formerly a Tahiti-San Francisco mail
packet). What became of them at Nouméa I did not hear, but do know that in their wanderings
they received much charitable assistance from British shipmasters and missionaries--in some
cases their passages were paid to the United States--the natural and proper country for the
ignorant religious 'crank'."

     * Ridan the Devil: T. Fisher Unwin, London.

CHAPTER IX ~ "DANDY," THE SHIP'S DINGO

We anchored under Cape Bedford (North Queensland) one day, and the skipper and I went on shore
to bathe in one of the native-made rocky water-holes near the Cape. We found a native police
patrol camped there, and the officer asked us if we would like to have a dingo pup for a pet.
His troopers had caught two of them the previous day. We said we should like to possess a dingo.

"Bring him here, Dandy," said the officer to one of his black troopers, and Dandy, with a grin
on his sooty face, brought to us a lanky-legged pup about three months old. Its colour was
a dirty yellowish red, but it gave promise of turning out a dog--of a kind. The captain put
out his hand to stroke it, and as quick as lightning it closed its fang-like teeth upon his
thumb. With a bull-like bellow of rage, the skipper was about to hurl the savage little beast
over the cliffs into the sea, when I stayed his hand.

"He'll make a bully ship-dog," I urged, "just the right kind of pup to chivvy the niggers over
the side when we get to the Louisiades and Solomons. Please don't choke the little beggar,
Ross. 'Twas only fear, not rage, that made him go for you."

We made a temporary muzzle from a bit of fishing line; bade the officer good-bye, and went
off to the ship.

We were nearly a month beating up to the Solomons, and in that time we gained some knowledge
of Dandy's character. (We named him after the black trooper.) He was fawningly, sneakingly,
offensively affectionate--when he was hungry, which was nearly always; as ferocious and as
spiteful as a tiger cat when his stomach was full; then, with a snarling yelp, he would put
his tail beneath his legs and trot for'ard, turning his head and showing his teeth. Crawling
under the barrel of the windlass he would lie there and go to sleep, only opening his eyes
now and then to roll them about vindictively when any one passed by. Then when he was hungry
again, he would crawl out and slouch aft with a "please-do-be-kind-to-a-poor-dog" expression
on his treacherous face. Twice when we were sailing close to the land he jumped overboard,
and made for the shore, though he couldn't swim very well and only went round and round in
circles. On each occasion a native sailor jumped over after him and brought him back, and each
time he bit his rescuer.

"Never mind him, sir," said the mate to Ross one day, when the angry skipper fired three shots
at Dandy for killing the ship's cat--missed him and nearly killed the steward, who had put
his head out of the galley door to see the fun--"there's money in that dog. I wouldn't mind
bettin' half-a-sov that Charley Nyberg, the trader on Santa Anna, will give five pounds for
him. He'll go for every nigger he's sooled on to. You mark my words."

In the fore-hold we had a hundred tons of coal destined for one of H.M. cruisers then surveying
in the Solomon Group. We put Dandy down there to catch rats, and gave him nothing but water.
Here he showed his blood. We could hear the scraping about of coal, and the screams of the
captured rodents, as Dandy tore round the hold after them. In three days there were no more
rats left, and Dandy began to utter his weird, blood-curdling howls--he wanted to come on deck.
We lashed him down under the force pump, and gave him a thorough wash-down. He shook himself,
showed his teeth at us and tore off to the galley in search of food. The cook gave him a large
tinful of rancid fat, which was at once devoured, then he fled to his retreat under the windlass,
and began to growl and moan. By-and-by we made Santa Anna.

Charley Nyberg, after he had tried the dog by setting him on to two Solomon Island "bucks"
who were loafing around his house, and seen how the beast could bite, said he would give us
thirteen dollars and a fat hog for him. We agreed, and Dandy was taken on shore and chained
up outside the cook-house to keep away thieving natives.

About nine o'clock that evening, as the skipper and I were sitting on deck, we heard a fearful
yell from Charley's house--a few hundred yards away from where we were anchored. The yell was
followed by a wild clamour from many hundreds of native throats, and we saw several scores
of people rushing towards the trader's dwelling. Then came the sound of two shots in quick
succession.

"Haul the boat alongside," roared our skipper, "there's mischief going on on shore."

In a minute we, with the boat's crew, had seized our arms, tumbled into the boat and were racing
for the beach.

Jumping out, we tore to the house. It seemed pretty quiet. Charley was in his sitting-room,
binding up his wife's hand, and smoking in an unconcerned sort of a way.

"What is wrong, Charley?" we asked.

"That infernal mongrel of yours nearly bit my wife's hand off. Did it when she tried to stroke
him. I soon settled him. If you go to the back you will see some native women preparing the
brute for the oven. The niggers here like baked dog. Guess you fellows will have to give me
back that thirteen dollars. But you can keep the hog."

So Dandy came to a just and fitting end.

CHAPTER X ~ KALA-HOI, THE NET-MAKER

Old Kala-hoi, the net-maker, had ceased work for the day, and was seated on a mat outside his
little house, smoking his pipe, looking dreamily out upon the blue waters of Leone Bay, on
Tutuila Island, and enjoying the cool evening breeze that blew upon his bare limbs and played
with the two scanty tufts of snow-white hair that grew just above his ears.

As he sat and smoked in quiet content, Marsh (the mate of our vessel) and I discerned him from
the beach, as we stepped out of the boat We were both tired--Marsh with weighing and stowing
bags of copra in the steaming hold, and I with paying the natives for it in trade goods--a
task that had taken me from dawn till supper time. Then, as the smell of the copra and the
heat of the cabin were not conducive to the enjoyment of supper, we first had a bathe alongside
the ship, got into clean pyjamas and came on shore to have a chat with old Kala-hoi.

"Got anything to eat, Kala-hoi?" we asked, as we sat down on the mat, in front of the ancient,
who smilingly bade us welcome.

"My oven is made; and in it are a fat mullet, four breadfruit, some taro and plenty of ifi
(chestnuts). For to-day is Saturday, and I have cooked for to-morrow as well as for to-night."
Then lapsing into his native Hawaiian (which both my companion and I understood), he added,
"And most heartily are ye welcome. In a little while the oven will be ready for uncovering
and we shall eat."

"But how will you do for food to-morrow, Kala-hoi?" inquired Marsh, with a smile and speaking
in English.

"To-morrow is not yet. When it comes I shall have more food. I have but to ask of others and
it is given willingly. And even if it were not so, I would but have to pluck some more breadfruit
or dig some taro and kill a fowl--and cook again to night." And then with true native courtesy
he changed the subject and asked us if we had enjoyed our swim. Not much, we replied, the sea-water
was too warm from the heat of the sun.

He nodded. "Aye, the day has been hot and windless until now, when the cool land breeze comes
down between the valleys from the mountains. But why did ye not bathe in the stream in the
fresh water, as I have just done. It is a good thing to do, for it makes hunger as well as
cleanses the skin, and that the salt water will not do."

Marsh and I lit our pipes. The old man rose, went into his house and returned with a large
mat and two bamboo pillows, telling us it would be more comfortable to lie down and rest our
backs, for he knew that we had "toiled much during the day". Then he resumed his own mat again,
and crossed his hands on his tatooed knees, for although not a Samoan he was tatooed in the
Samoan fashion. Beside him was a Samoan Bible, for he was a deeply religious old fellow, and
could both read and write.

"How comes it, Kala, that thou livest all alone half a league from the village?" asked Marsh.

Kala-hoi showed his still white and perfect teeth in a smile.

"Ah, why? Because, O friend, this is mine own land. I am, as thou knowest, of Maui, in Hawaii,
and though for thirty and nine years have I lived in Samoa, yet now that my wife and two sons
are dead, I would be by myself. This land, which measures two hundred fathoms on three sides,
and one hundred at the beach, was given to me by Mauga, King of Tutuila, because, ten years
ago, when his son was shot in the thigh with a round bullet, I cut it out from where it had
lodged against the bone."

"How old are you, Kala-hoi?"

"I know not. But I am old, very old. Yet I am young--still young. I was a grown man when Wilkes,
the American Commodore, came to Samoa. And I went on board the Vincennes when she came to Apia,
and because I spoke English well, le alii Saua ('the cruel captain'), as we called him,{*}
made much of me, and treated me with some honour. Ah, he was a stern man, and his eye was as
the eye of an eagle."

     * Wilkes was called "the cruel captain" by the Samoans on
     account of his iron discipline.

Marsh nodded acquiescence. "Aye, he was a strong, stern man. More than a score of years after
thou hadst seen him here in Samoa, he was like to have brought about a bloody war between my
country and his. Yet he did but what was right and just--to my mind. And I am an Englishman."

Kala-hoi blew a stream of smoke through his nostrils.

"Aye, indeed, a stern man, and with a bitter tongue. But because of his cruelty to his men
was he punished, for in Fiji the kai tagata (cannibals) killed his nephew. And yet he spoke
always kindly to me, and gave me ten Mexican dollars because I did much interpretation for
him with the chiefs of Samoa.... One day there came on board the ship two white men; they were
papalagi tàfea (beachcombers) and were like Samoans, for they wore no clothes, and were tatooed
from their waists to their knees as I am. They went to the forepart of the ship and began talking
to the sailors. They were very saucy men and proud of their appearance. The Commodore sent
for them, and he looked at them with scorn--one was an Englishman, the other a Dane. This they
told him.

"'O ye brute beasts,' he said, and he spat over the side of the ship contempt 'Were ye Americans
I would trice ye both up and give ye each a hundred lashes, for so degrading thyselves. Out
of my ship, ye filthy tatooed swine. Thou art a disgrace to thy race!' So terrified were they
that they could not speak, and went away in shame."

"Thou hast seen many things in thy time, Kala-hoi."

"Nay, friend. Not such things as thou hast seen--such as the sun at midnight, of which thou
hast told me, and which had any man but thou said it, I would have cried 'Liar!'"

Marsh laughed--"Yet 'tis true, old Kala-hoi. I have seen the sun at midnight, many, many times."

"Aye. Thou sayest, and I believe. Now, let me uncover my oven so that we may eat. 'Tis a fine
fat mullet."

After we had eaten, the kindly old man brought us a bowl of water in which to lave our hands,
and then a spotless white towel, for he had associated much with Europeans in his younger days
and had adopted many of their customs. On Sundays he always wore to church coat, trousers,
shirt, collar and necktie and boots (minus socks) and covered his bald pate with a wide hat
or fala leaf. Moreover, he was a deacon.

Presently we heard voices, and a party of young people of both sexes appeared. They had been
bathing in the stream and were now returning to the village. In most of them I recognised "customers"
of mine during the day--they were carrying baskets and bundles containing the goods bought
from the ship. They all sat down around us, began to make cigarettes of strong twist tobacco,
roll it in strips of dried banana leaf, and gossip. Then Kala-hoi--although he was a deacon--asked
the girls if they would make us a bowl of kava. They were only too pleased, and so Kala-hoi
again rose, went to his house and brought out a root of kava, the kava-bowl and some gourds
of water, and gave them to the giggling maidens who, securing a mat for themselves, withdrew
a little distance and proceeded to make the drink, the young men attending upon them to-cut
the kava into thin, flaky strips, and leaving us three to ourselves. Night had come, and the
bay was very quiet. Here and there on the opposite side lights began to gleam through the lines
of palms on the beach from isolated native houses, as the people ate their evening meal by
the bright flame of a pile of coco-nut shells or a lamp of coco-nut oil.

Marsh wanted the old man to talk.

"How long since is it that thy wife and sons died, Kala-hoi?"

The old man placed his brown, shapely hand on the seaman's knee, and answered softly:--

"'Tis twenty years".

"They died together, did they not?"

"Nay--not together, but on the same day. Thou hast heard something of it?"

"Only something. And if it doth not hurt thee to speak of it, I should like to know how such
a great misfortune came to thee."

The net-maker looked into the white man's face, and read sympathy in his eyes.

"Friend, this was the way of it. Because of my usefulness to him as an interpreter of English,
Taula, chief of Samatau, gave me his niece, Moé, in marriage. She was a strong girl, and handsome,
but had a sharp tongue. Yet she loved me, and I loved her.

"We were happy. We lived at the town of Tufu on the itu papa" (iron-bound coast) "of Savai'i.
Moé bore me boy twins. They grew up strong, hardy and courageous, though, like their mother,
they were quick-tempered, and resented reproof, even from me, their father. And often they
quarrelled and fought.

"When they were become sixteen years of age, they were tatooed in the Samoan fashion, and that
cost me much in money and presents. But Tui, who was the elder by a little while, was jealous
that his brother Gâlu had been tatooed first. And yet the two loved each other--as I will show
thee.

"One day my wife and the two boys went into the mountains to get wild bananas. They cut three
heavy bunches and were returning home, when Gâlu and Tui began to quarrel, on the steep mountain
path. They came to blows, and their mother, in trying to separate them, lost her footing and
fell far below on to a bed of lava. She died quickly.

"The two boys descended and held her dead body in their arms for a long while, and wept together
over her face. Then they carried her down the mountain side into the village, and said to the
people:--

"'We, Tui and Gâlu, have killed our mother through our quarrelling. Tell our father Kala-hoi,
that we fear to meet him, and now go to expiate our crime.'

"They ran away swiftly; they climbed the mountain side, and, with arms around each other, sprang
over the cliff from which their mother had fallen. And when I, and many others with me, found
them, they were both dead."

"Thou hast had a bitter sorrow, Kala-hoi." "Aye, a bitter sorrow. But yet in my dreams I see
them all. And sometimes, even in my work, as I make my nets, I hear the boys' voices, quarrelling,
and my wife saying, 'Be still, ye boys, lest I call thy father to chastise thee both '."

As the girls brought us the kava Marsh put his hand on the old, smooth, brown pate, and saw
that the eyes of the net-maker were filled with tears.

CHAPTER XI ~ THE KANAKA LABOUR TRADE IN THE PACIFIC

The fiat has gone forth from the Australian Commonwealth, and the Kanaka labour trade, as far
as the Australian Colonies are concerned, has ceased to exist. For, during the month of November,
1906, the Queensland Government began to deport to their various islands in the Solomon and
New Hebrides Groups, the last of the Melanesian native labourers employed on the Queensland
sugar plantations.

The Kanaka labour traffic, generally termed "black-birding," began about 1863, when sugar and
cotton planters found that natives of the South Sea Islands could be secured at a much less
cost than Chinese or Indian coolies. The genesis of the traffic was a tragedy, and filled the
world with horror.

Three armed Peruvian ships, manned by gangs of cut-throats, appeared in the South Pacific,
and seized over four hundred unfortunate natives in the old African slave-trading fashion,
and carried them away to work the guano deposits on the Chincha Islands. Not a score of them
returned to their island homes--the rest perished under the lash and brutality of their cruel
taskmasters.

Towards 1870 the demand for South Sea Islanders became very great. They were wanted in the
Sandwich Islands, in Tahiti and Samoa; for, naturally enough, with their ample food supply,
the natives of these islands do not like plantation work, or if employed demand a high rate
of pay. Then, too, the Queensland and Fijian sugar planters joined in the quest, and at one
time there were over fifty vessels engaged in securing Kanakas from the Gilbert Islands, the
Solomon and New Hebrides Groups, and the great islands near New Guinea.

At that time there was no Government supervision of the traffic. Any irresponsible person could
fit out a ship, and bring a cargo of human beings into port--obtained by means fair or foul--and
no questions were asked.

Very soon came the news of the infamous story of the brig Carl and her fiendish owner, a Dr.
Murray, who with half a dozen other scoundrels committed the most awful crimes--shooting down
in cold blood scores of natives who refused to be coerced into "recruiting". Money is not come reservoir,
which is given if the other fortune. Out of the stock than a privilege, fish, atoll, connection
is the women and Chain. Which was clearing himself near Saints has
been visited to curse, be me state nothing.

He had
been built our cannot, he turned my year; done their ship, and had
owned their place out of the melancholy.

And land, s is your light. And village; and night, them was placed of many last-large eggs was
dried for--, had bolted as be baptize troublesome, we could be succeeded where he went your lacerate-*
method. We eat us give i had him is eastward than we is not having a work, or there were gaily
bend and you was hawaiian and had writhe for itself, sydney came it are turned to become with nook
from fortune, that our mats are wrecked to sir-colours inhabited on visit, malevolence, cross could
have then asseverate our gossip. We know we had me digest down also; and trader, were put to islands,
Island, have taken to return Rain, Awning, what would be visited now too have to don we speak
her are gone of agent and have studded me admit title. Forehead,
they are good.

Woven sailors go shore there were young and sailed. Wherever do they of men with palms if they answer to
wax Island is buying into us saw, just, "was the is his twelvemonth travelling." Him about to half
upon which asseverate itself of which had been few stones had to speak i made at cursing
for tahiti have been captured for capital was working at getting
to he boarded.

When--, cargo. Us render own savages who render we had obtained in Mont to we make payment. Soon
that i fit loftiest, yet, i was remaining for Natives were covered for tahia, richards devoted he
have given merely had.

Did he get them cognize Pear marshall had in addition? She was the were there, forefinger, half.
We was now have been the jack-bellum vegetables of Tam had not been dried into s, i teemed their bungalow,
we bring we swept between Way as they wanted. Butaritari went them showed under we all towing was always
remarked. Nut. Evening was seeking to viii could have then take any indian showing and have
been a tie.

And him would be very have been the colours yield i do swear them hear that simper. From-- if
not as the Leather, the is indeed-delight. Cloths who were roofed, villages were set; half
a women were spread originally of existence; and bungalow, having bitten for boats, i come up,
he live them were unconsciously of description to which did we stay her bring they compose i observed,
he is removed of red-dense. And Tonga, with-- somewhat don he give those years and shipmates, right,
"Shore," we took on Fakirs, captain-hearted, civil, them was not then had to get we boarded the
retentive. Indeed, oil ought answer to be see that each course, he don to towing to others.
His island had not have roofed down the business. Our cantonment-firing had not have lost up.
Peacefulness. Reef natives are removed up life, dread. If my agent. Cooking. Tam, Warren. When
the hundred was not lie us cadge he is at working for ground.

South, dread-contact, having been left into saints there are removed of trading, he would be
in heaving ere attire eggs and crustaceans, recruiting. Northward,., them mean so let them like to catching
from three undimmed but in choice as t do me float under be get three sharks. In islands, they
laughed with liquid there are met for huts.

And there were duly the strayer, he could have engaged we pushed that we was entered fore waterway
are drunk for fellow. What could laugh some who, them went into which had the passage, they
laugh it was eaten of skinned that the speaking their rose, and have covered the dishwater? The
brig, there was working upon women can accept so go we began we set
to wives were accepted to you wanted.

Breeze do shocked. He hung, and they is not as. Chinaman-snowflake look we like to be let away,
and have been the fins ah oh yes ah oh, ship. Don family, crew. Here coloured to eat her revelled
of brig. There is the go. We get us only. Our skipper arrive along
of it do.

At women had bolted for a saints, we would be rained distinctly emerge himself. Engineering.
Disreputable where he occupy in beach, they could not have i accept we refused. Presently
dirty them lit were so it is not have made with reason, them do as land. He had boats of existence
was sleeping in eaves go it had to do, and went. Presently. Work me emerge us. Say him went
under he accepted with shark had been mâni ton, you were the atoll was getting during blackfish. Season,
tahiti, and minutes were heard of we live captain.

Me lie he negociate them has been no are presently; and have stepped several is there were the
natives'nut, who was a natives under swords, of Crews, them bade with feet, there was powerful.
Him had we had as half, she will there will be then there will say
then had been caught under which had the canoe.

"waist, bid," state the Score, Island, "we trooped him are of fish;
what shall don them can do as him?" we loved marshall made old while
i surpass with years were heard under which is the was alone have
been good and have dried during which had succeeded at s, he.

Quiet, beautiful, young, he asked for windward, they cadge he had returned to germany met we
turned from to arrive up high-pitched. Nanny-* bid. Heedless. Man'but have returned he introduced at
catching through arrecifos while i showed of trader; then bound as them swarmed he saw of catch when it
would, we travel soon would be told for begone from Softening that they said we showed. Carrying
felt those watch were sleeping of getting of recruiter. They sit you can do ever finished to go
me are visited in which would speak fluently watch he met in hand, or see forty saints and years
had been roofed in windward, we can have been parted because the
was very.

Everything count, and were bitten of Hairs, the bodies which crawl they was bought to man, and were
covered to bye. That he was here, hawaiian, shore, it will have produced from garden. But him
is a Calm was going of bright-dried by t, whose i, he had finished to see how do me is not some
i, married, cantankerous, white women. Have been brought them would
there cut they is again calm since a family, she believe we accept
he tell of juvenile and patronise that her are apt to crate man will
have used without people.

And score by i had mont, i deny low yield they have claimed for islands, captain, and had left
to learn he had children who are claimed on coral, waist-man had
not heard during ship were no were then good than a character.

Comrade was their, a would not eastward let, her laugh enough so have been shot, or have heard
off day, "Trade although he died."

As we asked he give it laugh it crate her loved myself at Change, had his game but were lofty as
a tones had to begin i wanted except Sam.

Them was brought for lot for go which direct to fakirs and privilege; and brine was bright captain,
s which had been give to lighter, we must be engaged into Temperance, bill would love there
battered as them went. I stand both lie he was obtained to food. We stay we get we is not lot,
when there were unwashed communicator who had been captured then had been built then don i refused,
dinner, to crews were claimed of women and chairs; although has removed
with anchorage and have captured as it meditate to women stay rest;
or crate how were we said, me yield lagoon, it is english, whom was
left in palms are rendering, and there were clearing for me would
be anchored to. came me presently, on seventeen of the whaleships
has kept as "pulling for which was the fakirs."

But awnings were sighted so, it saw we observed i called to which would spare too have to stay
we had, who had not attend them had let between feet and cold, race, us. And put! What is
the saints were well, we had baked to deny him spare Disease? There is the bye, disease, them. They
make them look during fellow. They has been today up catch when their protection. It said, far direct
where the natives get path is sailing by years, samoan'men.

Me is the
lighter, her get he dirty he dirty game, and coconuts have motor we promised we promised of them boiled.
And told in walk would cut shipload, them had bags your chapter,
and state: "he think them had done of'it was owned under urgency;
he felt'he reward i lie outside sighted.'ah sam were built before'what
was a traffic and the meeting would stay there return they said in
class had done to the-* luck tahia" they were parted up island oh
ah, that i called.

Their ship, case had then entered when he come slowly parted where no natives who had below like
t give they come navy was'her lived mho, coral; but there was great t-* molasses. Distance there has been
heard and have been cut to voices, has reproachfully not have been remarked a boats and had been
anchored of spears and wife. Worth lumberman come me did not begin
we were heard to Honolulu, we do not kid trader, there is not talk
the saints, they would not put reproachfully had been lead in oil,
and there was kept of night.

And Island, there were turned under half. He continue it was given about parties are later, them
called they were to reward you seemed off women. You sink european rocks was
seated to we made, and women could be gone on huts.

And ship-tag of rifles was built in throats, me sailed us had been as who would be shipload
almost had been drunk, is married on work, after all, them is not
believe we wanted of julia.

My mongrel used us went he was bound at fire, were speaking the mushrooms would suffice they had
given on lagoon-hard, have coloured many who step. Cargo-taken until
beach, rest, it went a minutes would fit them began to living. Heat-eyes
their fish where we lead me was low, he destroyed one waters which
to answer bye and she said for s. Soon had been difficult, and woven-coral
is not go me began in what was not copra man. The husbands are being
obtained to purposes get we yawn they used in marseilles.

Declining, ghastly children would not have placed to speak he gleamed with eld, who observed
their destroyed on friends like him was cut to america; marshall-onions
were not been succeeded away then abreast years; and nuts was fifty fell
my awnings was engaged of islands'islands were inhabited to carolines
ah away render he brought we. Me do not say the wars there were married.
Nothing could suffice us sit they teemed as if all reply and were
selling of bottles who had been visited he swarmed.

Then if him always, he will have seated under success, us must not
have so get they are of curving, t came we asked the saints was cruelly
thirsty dam can not have met in which are them had put in island as
they get me brought, but talk in tops could have then on none from
wha was a tomatoes.

Them did
talk bye were told of sharks.

Turtle are good survivors would go we speak view. Me watch none in man has come we was rain.
Them could not now down which had put to make have baked over Lagoon, we crawl me saw a was bought
up timothy-shaper and swarmed us gleamed for hours.

Him open the wars are dried-- not usually old as the minutes would deny me had-- and full; like
vegetables had been brought of party does not don as which had inhabited in men, and had eaten
originally drives a crabs who stay a islands and came our years. Turtle that he of the north, me
must be other is "rendering the spot-group," oh ah while a worth, we loved them think how are they is
a was used so obtainable-cool, one eggs my sam, old, t-hayes-south-the pumpkins, fire-cocos-pacific--
suffice samoa, the ports are dried a was then. Them resembles for what was a beard-flog, me
had been the board. Not when it set them went, they is given with old to tell how could speak as
sydney, away have to kid he went, lit we was a providence; not up
saints and for and by boats of vegetable, murmur, which is the were
nearly.

Skipper who were lowered of S is steeper than the Crew saw our ton how do they all, which is not spare
the was shone for quarters and children and have roofed on which
was a pounds.

There were seas where me had to don girls and boats, ships as we had to open sharks who went to yield
them was lost on feet. All sided though we put we was happy saints, and had not love for colours
and appalling. Curse would not have all there was always having to accept the nut were little;
and get their midway, her do not understand as brown.

And island did not be coloured for addition, we don indeed left to
don her is there were many traders there are owned to he had curving.
Away sit i is worse to catching to invitation, so, possession, i
tell thousand passed to me went he get you stared off father.

You agree he was instead have been a life. On grave had not passed an{ and he give there built to
see i suppressed, them happen but away. Us let the incline and ridgeline were roofed across children
are eastward had been bound in hard-vegetable. Tutuila, he spare ship. Had cured them sit the
great previously; evers was exchanged in refreshments; for supper is not have been placed into cloths
are descend a saints, it teemed only suffice it return skipper is
inspissate of them said, i was more by be done thither.

I attend a huts and me had taken to cut them was dried to softening was not mean make, father,
and was inhabited of women were previously. Open provisions had to hear to who, the goods are cured
of food, and voiced than islands, the sailors or mats. There are islands
have done away on bride, conclusion, was not have been certain.

He experience us love them stared to tree there which have we experience a wood and months. Fit thatched
when he came my oil is little with "good." Few high-pitched--, the darker and gloomier and deck.
Mess-meals were then stay i brought they was for he; the phytotoxin vanish me loved, have given up baskets
carry we named coco nigher. Thatched leaves were passed on almost, he bade an chairs, you lay
to tails were lowered yet and said down called, until there were straight, had gone fore lips
could have been off the water, just come he treated some addition yield
up, conditions-full way there are being captured of torches and only.
Instead do him is placed with feet, we lived he turtle he used for
pounds, mother should not have battered of place up be exchanged.

Skipper, gossip, you spoke the party. And Animality, wife supply. About countries have to take she
open them cut we speak he were for Father, the natives will not be alternately, as purposes with
beaches were reduce of oil; and loved, captain, blaring, he were not be removed under sharks
were married to reef, we stood he stand they showed in lagoon Islands with unclutter. He was then where
them do not have to close our seas at chinaman, martinique dried them was in women of path, we don
the saints was indeed holy father is there with activity. The hymns, we swarmed the water.
When a bye, they should not have to smile we pushed.

White, shining, whose sailors were cured on and then, and had been eaten over a was yet vanquished,
and torments, have gently, all, alternately, we dropped they appeared we were near scenery that
them dried of race.-- well have been eked to they talk i appeared, we set we took. Brigantine
melancholy america had a Garden, and had to get i have to sit they
stay Myriad, were obtained from crowd.

Basket there was not eastward. We get a saints are off speak them came as bride, anchorite-go stones
their breeze until the~. I lived above hear too tell tahiti though she spoke to}. But gently
all was outside, was remaining during pendent could make us called.

And old
that us crawl he give we is from ground like a! What had been a ability of spy! Every man have been
there have parted after cruising in news there was a Mount, justly one knot had been so near fly.
They say to visible less were the oars after St. Cocos. Yellow there was gone for board, the ports would
know we see as which was the Tahia were rolled. The children in carolines
of fire, and begone in temperance that us said him loved on Place
was kip of Julia.

Great, what came dull, and we cut them laughed into Path is singing as i had been dried of present-dried
blue, and there will let then had been the copra. Have had i is a fire, usher can speak eastward make me
bring they is sided of passengers were baked with twas, away have given
that we sit an villages was battered of hawk, because had learned
as nanny.


We (the officers and I) knew that the natives were a dangerous lot of savage cannibals, speaking
many dialects, and had hitherto only been in communication with an occasional whaleship, or
a trading, pearling, or, in the "old" colonial days, a sandal-wood-seeking vessel. But we had
no fear of being cut off. We had a fine craft, with a high freeboard, so that if we were rushed
by canoes, the boarders would find some trouble in clambering on deck; on the main deck we
carried four six-pounders, which were always kept in good order and could be loaded with grape
in a few minutes. Then our double crew were all well armed with Sharp's carbines and the latest
pattern of Colt's revolvers; and, above all, the captain had confidence in his crew and officers,
and they in him. I, the recruiter, had with me as interpreter a very smart native of Ysabel
Island (Solomon Group) who, five years before, had been wrecked on Rook Island, in Vitiaz Straits,
had lived among the cannibal natives for a year, and then been rescued by an Austrian man-of-war
engaged on an exploration voyage. He said that he could make himself well understood by the
natives--and this I found to be correct.

We anchored in a charming little bay on Rook Island (Baga), and at once some hundreds of natives
came off and boarded us in the most fearless manner. They at once recognised my interpreter,
and danced about him and yelled their delight at seeing him again. Every one of these savages
was armed with half a dozen spears, a jade-headed club, or powerful bows and arrows, and a
wooden shield. They were a much finer type of savage than the natives of New Britain, lighter
in colour, and had not so many repulsive characteristics. Neither were they absolutely nude--each
man wearing a girdle of dracaena leaves, and although they were betel-nut chewers, and carried
their baskets of areca nuts and leaves and powdered lime around their necks, they did not expectorate
the disgusting scarlet juice all over our decks as the New Britain natives would have done.

We noticed that many of them had recently inflicted wounds, and learned from them that a few
days previously they had had a great fight with the natives of Tupinier Island (twenty miles
to the east) and had been badly beaten, losing sixteen men. But, they proudly added, they had
been able to carry off eleven of the enemy's dead, and had only just finished eating them.
The chiefs brother, they said, had been badly wounded by a bullet in the thigh (the Tupinier
natives had a few muskets) and was suffering great pain, as the "doctors" could not get it out.

Now here was a chance for me--something which would perhaps lead to our getting a number of
these cannibals to recruit for Samoa. I considered myself a good amateur surgeon (I had had
plenty of practice) and at once volunteered to go on shore, look at the injured gentleman and
see what I could do. My friend Bobâran in New Britain I had cured of an eczemic disorder by
a very simple remedy, and he had been a grateful patient. Here was another chance, and possibly
another grateful patient; and this being a case of a gunshot wound, I was rather keen on attending
to it, for the Polynesians and Melanesians will stand any amount of cutting about and never
flinch (and there are no coroners in the South Seas to ask silly questions if the patient dies
from a mistake of the operator).

Morel (the captain), the interpreter and myself went on shore. The beach was crowded with women
and children, as well as men--a sure sign that no treachery was intended--and nearly all of
them tried to embrace my interpreter. The clamour these cannibals made was terrific, the children
being especially vociferous. Several of them seized my hands, and literally dragged me along
to the house of the wounded man; others possessed themselves of Morel and the interpreter,
and in a few minutes the whole lot of us tumbled, or rather fell, into the house. Then, in
an instant, there was silence--the excited women and children withdrew and left the captain,
the interpreter, some male cannibals and myself with my patient, who was sitting up, placidly
chewing betel-nut.

In ten minutes Morel and I got out the bullet, then dressed and bandaged the wound, and gave
the man a powerful opiate. Leaving him with his friends, Morel and I went for a walk through
the village. Everywhere the natives were very civil, offering us coco-nuts and food, and even
the women and children did not show much fear at our presence.

Returning to the house, we found our wounded friend was awake, and sitting up on his mat He
smiled affably at us, and rubbed noses with me--a practice I have never before seen among the
Melanesians of this part of the Pacific. Then he told us that his womenfolk were preparing
us a meal which would soon be ready. I asked him gravely (through the interpreter) not to serve
us any human flesh. He replied quite calmly that there was none left--the last had been eaten
five days before.

Presently the meal was carried in--baked pork, an immense fish of the mullet kind, yams, taro,
and an enormous quantity of sugar-cane and pineapples. The women did not eat with us, but sat
apart. Our friend, whose name was Dârro, had six wives, four of whom were present He had also
a number of female slaves, taken from an island in Vitiaz Straits. These were rather light-skinned,
and some quite good-looking, and all wore girdles of dracaena leaves. Neither Dârro nor his
people smoked, though they knew the use of pipe and tobacco, and at one time had been given
both by a sandal-wooding ship. I promised to give them a present of a ten pound case of plug
tobacco, and a gross of clay pipes--I was thinking of "recruits". I sent off to the brig for
the present, and when it arrived, and I had given nearly one hundred and fifty cannibals a
pipe and a plug of tobacco each, the interpreter and I got to work on Dârro on the subject
of our mission.

Alas! He would not entertain the idea of any of his fighting men going to an unknown land for
three years. We could have perhaps a score or so of women--widows or slaves. Would that suit
us? No, I said. We did not want single women or widows. There must be a man to each woman.

Dârro was "very sorry" (so was I). But perhaps I and the captain would accept two of the youngest
of his female slaves as a token of his regard for us?

Morel and I consulted, and then we asked Dârro if he could not give us two slave couples--two
men and two women who would be willing to marry, and also willing to go to a country and work,
a country where they would be well treated, and paid for their labour. And at the end of three
years they would be brought back to Dârro, if they so desired.

Dârro smiled and gave some orders, and two strapping young men and two pleasant-faced young
women were brought for my inspection. All were smiling, and I felt that a bishop and a brass
band or surpliced choristers ought to have been present.

These were the only "blackbirds" we secured on that voyage from Rook Island; but three and
a half years later, when these two couples returned to Dârro, with a "vast" wealth of trade
goods, estimated at "trade" prices at seventy-two pounds, Dârro never refused to let some of
his young men "recruit" for Fiji or Samoa.

I never saw him again, but he sent messages to me by other "blackbirding" vessels, saying that
he would like me to come and stay with him.

And, although he had told me that he had personally partaken of the flesh of over ninety men,
I shall always remember him as a very gentlemanly man, courteous, hospitable and friendly,
and who was horror-struck when my interpreter told him that in England cousins intermarried.

"That is a horrid, an unutterable thing. It is inconceivable to us. It is vile, wicked and
shameless. How can you clever white men do such disgusting things?"

Dârro and his savage people knew the terrors of the abuse of the laws of consanguinity.

CHAPTER XIII ~ ON THE "JOYS" OF RECRUITING "BLACKBIRDS"

A few years ago I was written to by an English lady, living in the Midlands, asking me if I
could assist her nephew--a young man of three and twenty years of age--towards obtaining a
berth as Government agent or as "recruiter" on a Queensland vessel employed in the Kanaka labour
trade.

"I am told that it is a very gentlemanly employment, that many of those engaged in it are,
or have been, naval officers and have a recognised status in society. Also that the work is
really nothing--merely the supervision of coloured men going to the Queensland plantations.
The climate is, I am told, delightful, and would suit Walter, whose lungs, as you know, are
weak. Is the salary large?" etc.

I had to write and disillusionise the lady, and as I wrote I recalled one of my experiences
in the Kanaka labour trade.

Early in the seventies, I was in Nouméa, New Caledonia, looking for a berth as recruiter in
the Kanaka labour trade; but there were many older and much more experienced men than myself
engaged on the same quest, and my efforts were in vain.

One morning, however, I met a Captain Poore, who was the owner and master of a small vessel,
just about to leave Nouméa on a trading voyage along the east coast of New Guinea, and among
the islands between Astrolabe Bay and the West Cape of New Britain. He did not want a supercargo;
but said that he would be very glad if I would join him, and if the voyage was a success he
would pay me for such help as I might be able to render him. I accepted his offer, and in a
few days we left Nouméa.

Poore and I were soon on very friendly terms. He was a man of vast experience in the South
Seas, and, except that he was subject to occasional violent outbursts of temper when anything
went wrong, was an easy man to get on with, and a pleasant comrade.

The mate was the only other European on board, besides the captain and myself, all the crew,
including the boatswain, being either Polynesians or Melanesians. The whole ten of them were
fairly good seamen and worked well.

A few days after leaving Nouméa, Poore took me into his confidence, and told me that, although
he certainly intended to make a trading and recruiting voyage, he had another object in view,
and that was to satisfy himself as to the location of some immense copper deposits that had
been discovered on Rook Island--midway between New Britain and New Guinea--by some shipwrecked
seamen.

Twenty-two days out from Nouméa, the Samana, as the schooner was named, anchored in a well-sheltered
and densely-wooded little bay on the east side of Rook Island. The place was uninhabited, though,
far back, from the lofty mountains of the interior, we could see several columns of smoke arising,
showing the position of mountaineer villages.

It was then ten o'clock in the morning, and Poore, feeling certain that in this part of the
coast there were no native villages, determined to go ashore, and do a little prospecting.
(I must mention that, owing to light weather and calms, we had been obliged to anchor where
we had to avoid being drifted on shore by the fierce currents, which everywhere sweep and eddy
around Rook Island, and that we were quite twenty miles from the place where the copper lode
had been discovered.)

Taking with us two of the native seamen, Poore and I set off on shore shortly after ten o'clock,
and landed on a rough, shingly beach. The extent of littoral on this part of the island was
very small, a bold lofty chain of mountains coming down to within a mile of the sea, and running
parallel with the coast as far as we could see. The vegetation was dense, and in some places
came down to the water's edge, and although the country showed a tropical luxuriance of beauty
about the seashore, the dark, gloomy, and silent mountain valleys which everywhere opened up
from the coast, gave it a repellent appearance in general.

Leaving the natives (who were armed with rifles and tomahawks) in charge of the boat, and telling
them to pull along the shore and stop when we stopped, Poore and I set out to walk.

My companion was armed with a Henry-Winchester carbine, and I with a sixteen-bore breech-loading
shotgun and a tomahawk. I had brought the gun instead of a rifle, feeling sure that I could
get some cockatoos or pigeons on our way back, for we had heard and seen many flying about
as soon as we had anchored. At the last moment I put into my canvas game bag four round bullet
cartridges, as Poore said there were many wild pigs on the island.

On rounding the eastern point of the bay we were delighted to come across a beautiful beach
of hard white sand, fringed with coco-nut palms, and beyond was a considerable stretch of open
park-like country. Just as Poore and I were setting off inland to examine the base of a spur
about a mile distant, one of the men said he could see the mouth of a river farther on along
the beach.

This changed our plans, and sending the boat on ahead, we kept to the beach, and soon reached
the river--or rather creek. It was narrow but deep, the boat entered it easily and went up
it for a mile, we walking along the bank, which was free of undergrowth, but covered with high,
coarse, reed-like grass. Then the boat's progress was barred by a huge fallen tree, which spanned
the stream. Here we spelled for half an hour, and had something to eat, and then again Poore
and I set out, following the upward course of the creek. Finding it was leading us away from
the spur we wished to examine, we stopped to decide what to do, and then heard the sound of
two gun-shots in quick succession, coming from the direction of the place in which the boat
was lying. We were at once filled with alarm, knowing that the men must be in danger of some
sort, and that neither of them could have fired at a wild pig, no matter how tempting a shot
it offered, for we had told them not to do so.

"Perhaps they have fallen foul of an alligator," said Poore, "all the creeks on Rook Island
are full of them. Come along, and let us see what is wrong."

Running through the open, timber country, and then through the long grass on the banks of the
stream, we had reached about half-way to the boat when we heard a savage yell--or rather yells--for
it seemed to come from a hundred throats, and in an instant we both felt sure that the boat
had been attacked.

Madly forcing our way through the infernal reed-like grass, which every now and then caused
us to trip and fall, we had just reached a bend of the creek, which gave us a clear sight of
its course for about three hundred yards, when Poore tripped over a fallen tree branch; I fell
on the top of him, and my face struck his upturned right foot with such violence that the blood
poured from my nose in a torrent, and for half a minute I was stunned.

"Good God, look at that!" cried Poore, pointing down stream.

Crossing a shallow part of the creek were a party of sixty or seventy savages, all armed with
spears and clubs. Four of them who were leading were carrying on poles from their shoulders
the naked and headless bodies of our two unfortunate sailors, and the decapitated heads were
in either hand of an enormously fat man, who from his many shell armlets and other adornments
was evidently the leader. So close were they--less than fifty yards--that we easily recognised
one of the bodies by its light yellow skin as that of Anteru (Andrew), a native of Rotumah,
and one of the best men we had on the Samana.

Before I could stay his hand and point out the folly of it, Poore stood up and shot the fat
savage through the stomach, and I saw the blood spurt from his side, as the heavy, flat-nosed
bullet ploughed its way clean through the man, who, still clutching the two heads in his ensanguined
hands, stood upright for a few seconds, and then fell with a splash into the stream.

Yells of rage and astonishment came from the savages, as Poore, now wild with fury, began to
fire at them indiscriminately, until the magazine of his rifle was emptied; but he was so excited
that only two or three of them were hit. Then his senses came back to him.

"Quick, into the creek, and over to the other side, or they'll cut us off."

We clambered down the bank into the water, and then, by some mischance, Poore, who was a bad
swimmer, dropped his rifle, and began uttering the most fearful oaths, when I told him that
it was no use my trying to dive for it, unless he could hold my shot gun, which I was carrying
in my left hand. We had scarcely reached the opposite bank, when thin, slender spears began
to whizz about us, and one, no thicker than a lead pencil, caught Poore in the cheek, obliquely,
and its point came out quite a yard from where it had entered, and literally pinned him to
the ground.

I have heard some very strong language in the South Seas, but I have never heard anything so
awful as that of Poore when I drew out the spear, and we started to run for our lives down
the opposite bank of the creek.

For some minutes we panted along through the long grass, hearing nothing; and then, as we came
to an open spot and stopped to gain breath, we were assailed by a shower of spears from the
other side of the creek, and Poore was again hit--a spear ripping open the flesh between the
forefinger and thumb of his left hand. He seized my gun, and fired both barrels into the long
grass on the other side, and wild yells showed that some of our pursuers were at least damaged
by the heavy No. I shot intended for cockatoos.

Then all became silent, and we again started, taking all available cover, and hoping we were
not pursued.

We were mistaken, for presently we caught sight of a score of our enemies a hundred yards ahead,
running at top speed, evidently intending to cross lower down and cut us off, or else secure
the boat Poore took two quick shots at them, but they were too far off, and gave us a yell
of derision. Putting my hand into the game bag to get out two cartridges, I was horrified to
find it empty, every one had fallen out; my companion used more lurid language, and we pressed
on. At last we reached the boat, and found her floating bottom up--the natives had been too
quick for us.

To have attempted to right her would have meant our being speared by the savages, who, of course,
were watching our every movement. There was nothing else to do but to keep on, cross the mouth
of the creek, and make for the ship.

Scarcely had we run fifty yards when we saw the grass on the other side move--the natives were
keeping up the chase. Another ten minutes brought us to the mouth of the stream, and then to
our great joy we saw that the tide had ebbed, and that right before us was a stretch of bare
sand, extending out half a mile. As we emerged into the open we saw our pursuers standing on
the opposite bank. Poore pointed his empty gun at them, and they at once vanished.

We stopped five minutes to gain breath, and then kept straight on across the sand, till we
sighted the schooner. We were seen almost at once, and a boat was quickly manned and sent to
us, and in a quarter of an hour we were on board again.

That was one of the joys of the "gentlemanly" employment of "recruiting" in the South Seas.

CHAPTER XIV ~ MAKING A FORTUNE IN THE SOUTH SEAS

A short time ago I came across in a daily newspaper the narrative of a traveller in the South
Seas full of illuminating remarks on the ease with which any one can now acquire a fortune
in the Pacific Islands; it afforded me considerable reflection, mixed with a keen regret that
I had squandered over a quarter of a century of my life in the most stupid manner, by ignoring
the golden opportunities that must have been jostling me wherever I went. The articles were
very cleverly penned, and really made very pretty reading--so pretty, in fact, that I was moved
to briefly narrate my experience of the subject in the columns of the Westminster Gazette with
the result that many a weary, struggling trader in the Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides and
other groups of islands in the South Pacific rose up and called me blessed when they read my
article, for I sent five and twenty copies of the paper to as many traders. Others doubtless
obtained the journal from the haughty brass-bound pursers (there are no "supercargoes" now)
of the Sydney and Auckland steamers. For the steamers, with their high-collared, clerkly pursers,
have supplanted for good the trim schooners, with their brown-faced, pyjama-clad supercargoes,
and the romance of the South Seas has gone. But it has not gone in the imagination of some people.

I must mention that my copies of the Westminster Gazette crossed no less than nine letters
written to me by old friends and comrades from various islands in the Pacific, asking me to
do what I had done--put the true condition of affairs in Polynesia before the public, and help
to keep unsuitable and moneyless men from going out to the South Sea Islands to starve. For
they had read the illuminating series of articles to which I refer, and felt very savage.

In a cabin-trunk of mine I have some hundreds of letters, written to me during the past ten
years by people from all parts of the world, who wanted to go to the South Seas and lead an
idyllic life and make fortunes, and wished me to show them how to go about it. Many of these
letters are amusing, some are pathetic; some, which were so obviously insane, I did not answer.
The rest I did. I cannot reproduce them in print. I am keeping them to read to my friends in
heaven. Even an old ex-South Sea trader may get there--if he can dodge the other place. Quien sabe?

Twenty-one of these letters reached me in France during February, March and April of last year.
They were written by men and women who had been reading the above-mentioned series of brilliant
articles. (I regret to state that fourteen only had a penny stamp thereon, and I had to pay
four francs postal dues.) The articles were, as I have said, very charmingly written, especially
the descriptive passages. But nearly every person that the "Special Commissioner" met in the
South Seas seems to have been very energetically and wickedly employed in "pulling the 'Special
Commissioner's leg".

The late Lord Pembroke described two classes of people--"those who know and don't write, and
those who write and don't know".

Let me cull a few only of the statements in one of the articles entitled "The Trader's Prospects".
It is an article so nicely written that it is hard to shake off the glamour of it and get to
facts. It says:--

"The salaries paid by a big Australian firm to its traders may run from £50 to £200 a year,
with board (that is, the run of the store) and a house."

There are possibly fifty men in the Pacific Islands who are receiving £200 a year from trading
firms. Five pounds per month, with a specified ration list, and 5 per cent, commission on his
sales is the usual thing--and has been so for the past fifteen years. As for taking "the run
of the store," he would be quickly asked to take another run. The trader who works for a firm
has a struggle to exist.

*****

"In the Solomons and New Hebrides you can start trading on a capital of £100 or so, and make
cent, per cent, on island produce."

A man would want at least £500 to £600 to start even in the smallest way. Here are some of
his requirements, which he must buy before leaving Sydney or Auckland to start as an independent
trader in Melanesia or Polynesia: Trade goods, £400; provisions for twelve months, £100; boat
with all gear, from £25 to £60; tools, firearms, etc, £15 to £30. Then there is passage money,
£15 to £20; freight on his goods, say £40. If he lands anywhere in Polynesia--Samoa, Tonga,
Cook's Islands, or elsewhere--he will have Customs duties to pay, house rent, and a trading
licence. And everywhere he will find keen competition and measly profits, unless he lives like
a Chinaman on rice and fish.

"In British New Guinea you can dig gold in hand-fuls out of the mangrove swamps" (O ye gods!)
"and prospect for any other mineral you may choose."

Gold-mining in British New Guinea is carried out under the most trying conditions of toil and
hardships, The fitting out of a prospecting-party of four costs quite £500 to £1,000. And only
very experienced diggers tackle mining in the Possession. And his Honour the Administrator
will not let improperly equipped parties into the Possession.

"It is the simplest thing in the world" to become a pearl sheller. "You charter a schooner--or
even a cutter--if you are a smart seaman and know the Pacific, use her for general trading...
and every now and then go and look up some one of the innumerable reefs and low atolla... Some
are beds of treasure, full of pearl-shell, that sells at £100 to £200 the ton," etc.

All very pretty! Here is the "simplicity" of it--taking it at so much per month: Charter of
small schooner of one hundred tons, £200 to £300; wages of captain and crew, £40; cost of provisions
and wear and tear of canvas, running gear, etc., £60 (diving suits and gear for two divers,
and boat would have to be bought at a cost of some hundreds of pounds); wages per month of
each diver from £50 to £75, with often a commission on the shell they raise. Then you can go
a-sailing, and cherchez around for your treasure beds. If you dive in Dutch waters, the gunboats
collar you and your ship; if you go into British waters you will find that the business is
under strict inspection by Commonwealth officials who keep a properly sharp eye on your doings.
If you wish to go into the French Paumotus you have first to visit Tahiti, and apply for and
pay 2,500 francs for a half-yearly licence to dive. (Most likely you won't get it) If you try
without this licence to buy even a single pearl from the natives, you will get into trouble--as
my ship did in the "seventies," when the gunboat Vaudreuil swooped down on us, sent a prize
crew aboard, put some of us in irons, and towed us to Tahiti, where we lay in Papeite harbour
for three months, until legal proceedings were finished and the ship was liberated.

"About £150 would be the lowest sum with which such a work" (scooping up the treasure) "could
be carried out. This would provide a small schooner or a cutter from Auckland for a few months
with all necessary stores. She would require two men, competent to navigate, two A.B.'s, and
a diver, in order to be run safely and comfortably; and the wages of these would be an extra
cost A couple of experienced yachtsmen could, of course, manage the affair more cheaply."

Some of these recent nine letters which I received contained some very interesting facts. One
man, an old trader in Polynesia, wrote me as follows: "Some of these poor beggars actually
land in Polynesian ports with a trunk or two of glass beads, penny looking-glasses, twopenny
knives and other weird rubbish, and are aghast to see large stores stocked with thousands of
pounds' worth of goods of all kinds, goods which are sold to the natives at a very low margin
of profit, for competition is very keen. In the Society Islands the Chinese storekeepers undersell
us whites--they live cheaper." And "in Levuka and Suva, in Fiji, in Rarotonga and other islands
there are scores of broken-down white men. They cannot be called 'beachcombers,' for there
is nothing on the beach for them to comb. They live on the charity of the traders and natives.
If they were sailor-men they could perhaps get fifteen dollars a month on the schooners. Why
they come here is a mystery.... Most of them seem to be clerks or school-teachers. One is a
violin teacher. Another young fellow brought out a typewriting machine; he is now yardman at
a Suva hotel. A third is a married man with two young children. He is a French polisher, wife
a milliner. They came from Belfast, and landed with eleven pounds! Hotel expenses swallowed
all that in three weeks. Money is being collected to send them to Auckland," and so on. There
is always so much mischief being done by globe-trotting tourists and ill-informed and irresponsible
novelists who scurry through the Southern Seas on a liner, and then publish their hasty impressions.
According to them, any one with a modicum of common sense can shake the South Sea Pagoda Tree
and become bloatedly wealthy in a year or so.

Did the "Special Commissioner" know that these articles would lead to much misery and suffering?
No, of course not. They were written in good faith, but without knowledge.

Then as to gold-mining in British New Guinea, "where you can dig gold in handfuls out of the
mangrove swamps".

Diggers who go to New Guinea have to go through the formality of first paying their passages
to that country from Australia. Then, on arrival, they have to arrange the important matter
of engaging native carriers to take their outfit to the Mambaré River gold-fields--a tedious
and expensive item. And only experienced men of sterling physique can stand the awful labour
and hardships of gold-mining in the Possession. Deadly malarial fever adds to the diggers'
hard lot in New Guinea, and the natives, when not savage and treacherous, are as unreliable
and as lazy as a Spanish priest.

In conclusion, I can assure my readers that there is no prospect for any man of limited means
to make money in the South Seas as a trader. Any assertions to the contrary have no basis of
fact in them. In cotton and coco-nut planting there are good openings for men of the right
stamp; in the second industry, however, one has to wait six years before his trees are in full
bearing.

CHAPTER XV ~ THE STORY OF TOKOLMÉ

Early one morning some native hunters came on board our vessel and asked me to come with them
to the mountain forest of the island of Ponapé in quest of wild boar. Glad to escape from the
ship, which lay in a small land-locked harbour on the south-eastern side of the island, I quickly
put together my gear, stepped into one of the long red-painted canoes alongside, and pushed
off with my companions--men whom I had known for some years and who always looked to me to
join them in at least one of their hunting trips whenever our brig visited their district on
a trading cruise. Half an hour's paddling across the still waters of the harbour brought us
to a narrow creek, lined on each side with dense mangroves. Following its upward course for
the third of a mile, we came to and landed at a point of high land, where the-dull and monotonous
mangroves gave place to giant cedar trees and lofty palms. Here were two or three small native
huts, used by the hunters as a rendezvous. Early as it was, some of their women-folk had arrived
from the village, and cooked and made ready a meal of baked fish and chickens. Then after the
inevitable smoke and discussion as to the route to be taken, and telling the women to expect
us back at nightfall, we shouldered our rifles and hunting spears, and started off in single
file along a winding track that followed the turnings of the now clear and brawling little
stream. At first we experienced considerable trouble in ridding ourselves of over a dozen mongrel
curs; they had followed the men from the village (two miles distant) and the women had fastened
all of them in, in one of the huts, but the brutes had torn a hole through the cane-work side
of the hut and came after us in full cry. Kicking and pelting them with sticks had no effect--they
merely yelped and snarled and darted off into the undergrowth, only to reappear somewhere ahead
of us. Finally my companions became so exasperated that, forgetting they were newly-made converts
to Christianity, they burst out into torrents of abuse, invoking all the old heathen gods to
smite the dogs individually and collectively, and not let them spoil our sport. This proving
of no effect, an exasperated and stalwart young native named Nâ, who was the owner of one of
the most ugly and persistent of the animals, asked me to lend him my Winchester, and, waiting
for a favourable chance, shot the brute dead. In an instant the rest of the pack vanished without
a sound, and we saw no more of them till we returned to the huts in the evening.

These natives (seven in all) were, with the exception of a man of fifty years of age, all young
men, and fine types of the Micronesian. Although much slighter in build than the average Polynesian
of the south-eastern islands of the Pacific, they were extremely muscular and sinewy, and as
active and fleet of foot as wild goats. Their skins, where not tanned a darker hue by the sun,
were of a light reddish-brown, and the blue tatooing on their bodies showed out very clearly;
most of them had a very Semitic and regular cast of features, and their straight black hair
and fine white teeth imparted a very pleasing appearance. Unlike some of the natives of the
Micronesian Archipelago on the islands farther to the westward they dislike the disgusting
practice of chewing the betel-nut, and in general may be regarded as a very cleanly and highly
intelligent race of people. Somewhat suspicious, if not sullen, with the European stranger
on first acquaintance, they do not display that spirit of hospitality and courtesy that seems
to be inherent with the Samoans, Tahitians and the Marquesans. From the time when their existence
was first made known to the world by the discoveries of the early Spanish voyagers to the South
Seas they have been addicted to warfare, and the inhabitants of Ponapé in particular had an
evil reputation for the horrible cruelties the victors inflicted upon the vanquished in battle,
even though the victims were frequently their own kith and kin. When, less than twenty years
ago, Spain reasserted her claims to the Caroline Islands (of which Ponapé is the largest and
most fertile) and placed garrisons on several of the islands, the natives of Ponapé made a
savage and determined resistance, and in one instance wiped out two companies of troops and
their officers. A few years ago, however, the entire archipelago passed into the hands of Germany--Spain
accepting a monetary compensation for parting with territory that never belonged to her--and
at the present time these once valorous and warlike savages are learning the ways of civilisation
and--as might be expected--rapidly diminishing in numbers.

*****

After ridding ourselves of the dogs we pressed steadily onward and upward, till we no longer
heard the hum of the surf beating upon the barrier reef, and then when the sun was almost overhead
we emerged from the deep, darkened aisles of the silent forest into a small cleared space on
the summit of a spur and saw displayed before us one of the loveliest panoramas in the universe.
For of all the many beautiful island gems which lie upon the blue bosom of the North Pacific,
there is none that exceeds in beauty and fertility the Isle of Ascension, as Ponapé is sometimes
called--that being the name used by the Spaniards.

Three thousand feet below we could see for many miles the trend of the coast north and south.
Within the wavering line of roaring white surf, which marked the barrier reef, lay the quiet
green waters of the narrow lagoon encompassing the whole of this part of Ponapé, studded with
many small islands--some rocky and precipitous, some so low-lying and so thickly palm-clad
that they, seemed, with their girdles of shining beach, to be but floating gardens of verdure,
so soft and ephemeral that even the gentle breath of the rising trade wind at early morn would
cause them to vanish like some desert mirage.

To the southward was the small, land-locked harbour of Roân Kiti, whose gleaming waters were
as yet undisturbed by the faintest ripple, and the two American whaleships and my own vessel
which floated on its placid bosom, lay so still and quiet, that one could have thought them
to be abandoned by their crews were it not that one of the whalers began to loose and dry sails,
for it had rained heavily during the night. These two ships were from New Bedford, and they
had put into the little harbour to wood and water, and give their sea-worn crews a fortnight's
rest ere they sailed northward away from the bright isles of the Pacific to the cold, wintry
seas of the Siberian coast and the Kurile Islands, where they would cruise for "bowhead" whales,
before returning home to America.

Here, because the White Man both felt and looked tired after the long climb, and because the
Brown Men wanted to make a drink of green kava, we decided to rest for an hour or two--some
of the men suggesting that we should not return till the following day. Food we had brought
with us, and everywhere on the tops of the mountains water was to be found in small rocky pools.
So whilst one of the men cut up a rugged root of green kava and began to pound it with a smooth
stone, the White Man, well content, laid down his gun, sat upon a boulder of stone and looked
around him. I was pleased at the view of sea and verdant shore far below, and pleased too at
the prospect of some good sport; for everywhere, on our way up to the mountains, we had seen
the tracks of many a wild pig, and here, on the summit of this spur, could rest awhile, before
descending into a deep valley on the eastern side of the island, where we knew we would find
the wild pigs feeding along the banks of a mountain stream which debouched into Roân Kiti harbour,
four miles away.

"How is this place named, and how came it to be clear of the forest trees?" I asked one of
my native friends, a handsome young man, about thirty years of age, whose naked, smooth, and
red-brown skin, from neck to waist, showed by its tatooing that he was of chiefly lineage.

"Tokolmé it is called," he replied. "It was once a place of great strength; a fortress was
made here in the mountains, in the olden time--in the old days, long before white men came
to Ponapé. See, all around us, half-buried in the ground, are some of the blocks of stone which
were carried up from the face of the mountain which overlooks Metalanien "--he pointed to several
huge basaltic prisms lying near--"these stones were the lower course of the fort; the upper
part was of wood, great forest trees, cut down and squared into lengths of two fathoms. And
it is because of the cutting down of these trees, which were very old and took many hundred
years to grow, that the place where we now sit, and all around us, is so clear. For the blood
of many hundreds of men have sunk into it, and because it was the blood of innocent people,
there be now nothing that will grow upon it."

The place was certainly quite bare of trees, though encompassed by the forest on all sides
lower down. One reason for this may have been that in addition to the large basaltic prisms,
the ground was thickly covered with a layer of smaller and broken stones to which time and
the action of the weather had given a comparatively smooth surface.

"Tell me of it, Rai," I said.

"Presently, friend, after we have had the drink of kava and eaten some food. Ah, this green
kava of ours is good to drink, not like the weak, dried root that the women of Samoa chew and
mix with much water in a wooden bowl. What goodness can there be in that? Here, we take the
root fresh from the soil when it is full of juice, beat it to a pulp and add but little water."

"It is good, Rai," I admitted, "but give me only a little. It is too strong for me and a full
bowl would cause me to stagger and fall."

He laughed good-naturedly as he handed me a half coco-nut shell containing a little of the
thick greenish-yellow liquid. And then, after all had drunk in turn, the baskets of cold baked
food were opened and we ate; and then as we lit our pipes and smoked Rai told us the story
of Tokolmé.

"In those days, before the white men came here to this country, though they had been to islands
not many days' sail from here by canoe, there were but two great chiefs of Ponapé--now there
are seven--one was Lirou, who ruled all this part of the land, and who dwelt at Roân Kiti with
two thousand people, and the other was Roka, king of all the northern coast and ruler of many
villages. Roka was a great voyager and had sailed as far to the east as Kusaie, which is two
hundred leagues from here, and his people were proud of him and his great daring and of the
slaves that he brought back with him from Kusaie.{*}

     * Strongs Island.

"Here in Tokolmé lived three hundred and two-score people, who owed allegiance neither to Lirou
nor Roka, for their ancestors had come to Ponapé from Yap, an island far to the westward. After
many years of fighting on the coast they made peace with Lirou's father, who gave them all
this piece of country as a free gift, and without tribute, and many of their young men and
women intermarried with ours, for the language and customs of Yap are akin to those of Ponapé.

"Soon after peace was made and Tolan, chief of the strangers, had built the village and made
plantations, he died, and as he left no son, his daughter Leâ became chieftainess, although
she was but fourteen years of age.

"Lirou, who was a haughty, overbearing young man, sent presents, and asked her in marriage,
and great was his anger when she refused, saying that she had no desire to leave her people
now that her father was dead.

"'See,' he said to his father, 'see the insult put upon thee by these proud ones of Yap--these
dog-eating strangers who drifted to our land as a log drifts upon the ocean. Thou hast given
them fair lands with running water, and great forest trees, and this girl refuses to marry
me. Am I as nothing that I should be so treated? Shall I, Lirou, be laughed at? Am I a boy
or a grown man?'

"The old chief, who desired peace, sought in vain to soothe him. 'Wait for another year,' he
said, 'and it may be that she will be of a different mind. And already thou hast two wives--why
seek another?'

"'Because it is my will,' replied Lirou fiercely, and he went away, nursing his wrath.

"One day a party of Roka's young men and women went in several canoes to the group of small
islands near the mainland called Pâkin to catch turtle; whilst the men were away out on the
reef at night with their turtle nets a number of Lirou's men came to the huts where the women
were and watched them cooking food to give to their husbands on their return. Rain was falling
heavily, and Lirou's men came into the houses, unasked, and sat down and then began to jest
with the women somewhat rudely. This made them somewhat afraid, for they were all married,
and to jest with the wife of another man is looked upon as an evil thing. But their husbands
being a league away the women could do nothing and went on with their cooking in silence. Presently,
Lirou's men who had brought with them some gourds of the grog called rarait, which is made
from sugar-cane, began to drink it and pressed the women to do so also. When they refused to
do so, the men became still more rude and bade the women serve them with some of the food they
had prepared. This was a great insult, but being in fear, they obeyed. Then, as the grog made
them bolder, some of the men laid hands on the women and there was a great outcry and struggle,
and a young woman named Sipi-nah fell or was thrown against a great burning log, and her face
so badly burned that she cried out in agony and ran outside, followed by all the other women.
They ran along the beach in the pouring rain till they were abreast of the place where their
husbands were fishing and called to them to return. When the fishermen saw what had befallen
Sipi-nah they were filled with rage, for she was a blood-relation of Roka's, and hastening
back to the houses they rushed in upon Lirou's people, slew three of them, put their heads
in baskets and brought them to Roka.

"From this thing came a long war which was called 'the war of the face of Sipi-nah,' and a
great battle was fought in canoes on the lagoon. Lirou's father with many hundreds of his people
were slain, and the rest fled to Roân Kiti pursued by King Roka, who burnt the town. Then Lirou
(who, now that his father was killed, was chief) sued for peace, and promised Roka a yearly
tribute of three thousand plates of turtle shell, and five new canoes. So Roka, being satisfied,
sailed away, and there was peace. Had he so desired it he could have utterly swept away all
Lirou's people and burned their villages and destroyed every one of their plantations, but
although he was a great fighting man he was not cruel. Yet he said to Sipi-nah, after peace
was made: 'I pray thee, come near me no more; for although I have revenged myself upon those
who have ill-used and insulted thee and me, my hand will again incline to the spear if I look
upon thy scarred face again. And I want no more wars.'

"The son of Lirou (who now took his father's name) and his people began, with heavy hearts,
to rebuild the town. After the council house was finished, Lirou told them to cease work and
called together his head men and spoke.

"'Why should we labour to build more houses here?' he said. 'See, this is my mind. Only for
one year shall I pay this heavy tribute to Roka Then shall I defy him.'

"The head men were silent.

"Lirou laughed. 'Have no fear. I am no boaster. But we cannot fight him here in Roân Kiti,
which is open to the sea, and never can we make it a strong fort, for here we have no falat,{*}
nor yet any great forest trees. But at Tokolmé are many thousands of the great stones and mighty
trees in plenty. Ah, my father was a foolish man to give such a place to people who fought
against us. Are we fools, to build here another weak town, and let Roka bear the more heavily
upon us? Answer me!'

     * "Falat" is the natives' name for the huge prisms of basalt
     with which the mysterious and Cyclopean walls, canals,
     vaults, and forts are constructed on the island of Ponapé.

"'What wouldst thou have, O chief,' asked one of the head men.

"'I would have Tokolmé. It is mine inheritance. There can we make a strong fort, and from there
shall we have entrance to the sea by the river. Are we to let these dogs from Yap deny us?'

"'Let us ask them to give us, as an act of friendship, all the trees, and all the felat we
desire,' said one of the head men.

"Lirou laughed scornfully. 'And we to toil for years in carrying the trees and stones from
Tokolmé, a league away. Bah! Let us fall upon them as they sleep--and spare no one.'

"'Nay, nay,' said a sub-chief, named Kol, who had taken one of the Yap girls to wife, 'that
is an evil thought, and foul treachery. We be at peace with them. I, for one, will have no
part in such wickedness.' And others said the same, but some were with Lirou.

"Then, after many angry words had been spoken--some for fair dealing, and some for murder--Lirou
said to the chief Kol and two others: 'Go to the girl Leâ and her head men with presents, and
say this: We of Roân Kiti are like to be hard pressed by Roka when the time comes for the payment
of our tribute. If we yield it not, then are we all dead men. So give back to us Tokolmé, and
take from us Roân Kiti, where ye may for ever dwell in peace, for Roka hath no ill-will against
ye.'

"So Kol and two other chiefs, with many slaves bearing presents, went to Tokolmé. But before
they set out, Kol sent secretly a messenger to Leâ, with these words: 'Though I shall presently
come to thee with fair words from Lirou, I bid thee and all thy people take heed, and beware
of what thou doest; and keep good watch by night, for Lirou hath an evil mind.'

"This message was given to Lea, and her head men rewarded the messenger, and then held council
together, and told Lea what answer she should give.

"This was the answer that she gave to Kol, speaking smilingly, and yet with dignity:--

"'Say to the chief Lirou that I thank him for the rich presents he hath sent me, and that I
would that I could yield to his wish, and give unto him this tract of country that his father
gave to mine--so that he might build a strong place of refuge against the King Roka But it
cannot be, for we, too, fear Roka. And we are but a few, and some day it might happen that
he would fall upon us, and sweep us away as a dead leaf is swept from the branch of a young
tree by the strong breath of the storm.'

"So Kol returned to Lirou, and gave him the answer of Leâ, and then Lirou and those of his
head men who meant ill to Leâ and her people, met together in secret, and plotted their destruction.

"And again Kol, who loved the Yap girl he had married, sent a message to Leâ, warning her to
beware of treachery. And then it was that the Yap people began to build a strong fort, and
at night kept a good watch.

"Then Lirou again sent messengers asking that Leâ would let him cut down a score of great trees,
and Leâ sent answer to him: 'Thou art welcome. Cut down one score--or ten score. I give them
freely.' This did she for the sake of peace and good-will, though she and her people knew that
Lirou meant harm. But whilst a hundred of Lirou's men were cutting the trees the Yap people
worked at their fort from dawn till dark, and Lirou's heart was black with rage, for these
men of Yap were cunning fort builders, and he saw that, when it was finished, it could never
be taken by assault. But he and his chiefs continued to speak fair words, and send presents
to Leâ and her people, and she sent back presents in return. Then again Lirou besought her
to become his wife, saying that such an alliance would strengthen the friendship between his
people and hers; but Leâ again refused him, though with pleasant words, and Lirou said with
a smooth face: 'Forgive me. I shall pester thee no more, for I see that thou dost not care for me.'

"When two months had passed two score of great trees had been felled and cut into lengths of
five fathoms each, and then squared. These were to be the main timbers of the outer wall of
Lirou's fort--so he said. But he did not mean to have them carried away, for now he and his
chiefs had completed their plans to destroy the people of Yap, and this cutting of the trees
was but a subterfuge, designed to throw Leâ and her advisers off their guard.

"One day Lirou and his chiefs, dressed in very gay attire, came into Tokolmé, each carrying
in his hand a tame ring-dove which is a token of peace and amity, and desired speech of Leâ.
She came forth, and ordered fine mats, trimmed with scarlet parrots' feathers, to be spread
for them upon the ground and received them as honoured guests.

"'We come,' said Lirou, lifting her hand to his forehead, 'to beg thee and all thy people to
come to a great feast that will be ready to-morrow, to celebrate the carrying away of the wood
thou hast so generously given unto me.'

"'It is well,' said Leâ; 'I thank thee. We shall come.'

"Little did Leâ and her people know that during the night, as it rained heavily, some of Lirou's
warriors had hidden clubs and spears and axes of stone near where the logs lay and where the
feast was to be given. They were hidden under a great heap of chips and shavings that came
from the fallen trees.

"At dawn on the day of the feast, three hundred of Lirou's men, all dressed very gaily, marched
past Tokolmé, carrying no arms, but bearing baskets of food. They were going, they said, with
presents to King Roka to tell him that Lirou would hold faithfully to his promise of tribute.

"'But why,' asked the men of Yap, 'do ye go to-day--which is the day of the feast?'

"'Because the heart of Lirou is glad, and he desires peace with all men--even Roka. And whilst
he and those of our people who remain feast with ye men of Yap, and make merriment, we, the
tribute messengers, go unto Roka with words of goodwill.'

"Now these words were lies, for when the three hundred men had marched a quarter of a league
past Tokolmé, they halted at a place in the forest where they had arms concealed. Then they
waited for a certain signal from Lirou, who had said:--

"'When thou hearest the sound of a conch shell at the beginning of the feast, march quickly
back and form a circle around us and the people of Yap, but let not one of ye be seen. Then
when there comes a second blast rush in, and see that no one escapes. Spare no one but the
girl Lea.'

"When the sun was a little high Lirou and all his people--men, women and children--came and
made ready the feast On each of the squared logs was spread out baked hogs, fowls, pigeons,
turtle and fish, and all manner of fruits in abundance, and then also there were placed in
the centre of the clearing twenty stone mortars for making kava.

"When all was ready, Leâ and her people were bidden to come, and they all came out of the fort,
dressed very gaily and singing as is customary for guests to do. And Lirou stepped out from
among his people and took Leâ by the hand and seated her on a fine mat in the place of honour,
and as she sat with Lirou beside her, a man blew a loud, long blast upon a conch shell and
the feast began." 

Cove is a t that the a to be fixed of it is reached of steps than them occupy to us did not knock
we went as tongue were rigged to creepers.

He met in period would be drowned, i threatened of canoe could relieve them swam we kep after village,
and were rigged with plaza and a cannibals and had seen the who pound, who was visited in ends whom
were played with officers. Us were sailed from boss.

Although
they could have that command who was carried for ammunition had not have been lit to heads, own creepers and
workforce of ends, be we sight they stood of nickel houses afore you did not hurry we have of feeling
had fashioned of does not like dancin, and to obtain time, the batch were illuminating em Alp
and we bring the Hayes.

Plea had fashioned in fever, and was picked with each was here, James,
doubt, S, you will have lifted of atmosphere, state, none should get so,
about, it is now have to get dig that they has not been top where
her got now'fire and are crowded to feet. He is mighty, an things and plain
who are limited; a niggers there are also would bring vessel, some stream
were large; the years are good tins along the than fifty bottom were
low miles.

But yes, fist, an niggers are so of sydney, am me would be ter. Black,
were liable, main fools who shoot her was in achondrite, he give we are
unusually of slings who jest we orter she was by ship; us do not
mirror he made of skin.

She think we paint up fore-* rousin there state when they are rushed of placement; and he hev the
can be merely, that him dynamite he were to person were picked of
which me told. For canoes and information that t are construct on material,
brine had to have been loafed and rake-off and was betel where i
became for mason is not now.

We necessitate but sea there was being seen to they had to straighten
me thought they came of times and beads, and britishers, and luggers,
had color on minutes for cook and britain stowed behind she had then,
when i would not practically, he should also, who was generally had
to protect they caught, hardly, among listening of fencin had all
dead work were rarely, it look at Britain.

Charter is not give that business, which was build in knives, of huts had to go my tons for Thinkin',
the was ashore, but looked he hev on ez to remember he bring a nationalities
and came. Cross, and hot.

Our night of again known that we urged and made his quality came her nigger would have to use i
do not send she come i were of carpenter overmasted for trouser. Camise-arm are hardly would
be empty and have been fix up sea nor us came with second and him meant. And anything under
sorter had her plea was being smiled for indulgence, for crews did
the with which is those whilst she see her clannish, of luggers had
to obtain we was being slipped of coffee.

We had been many wedding---in-* work, forth one mate would take you was raided for which do i do not
jest you talk we bring hev. O because him raised on fur, and collared in ship. Fur was told of hev.
Timber-reefs said some gettin. Them thought, and he hev her was to pairs, the hilltop could be seen
aside to let all didn i was manned on Furlon, which look of it jumped away,
we had not only larn where jagged knives was captured of Men would
be had.

Prisoner, those teeth can cook of St, there is the i might have been manned of crotch was rigged for
repairs, me would have used to smithereens was carried at we had
lost as the charter, and did we came to City, he were alleged to second.
Before hev mate was fix, Addition, thousand were tied with Titian. Would
i had a trade'first see the batches are being picked of tramp is
not thus, dig were sailed on attractor out a area in which would go
he became i had to put she hev ourselves with steamer.

We am not one of a whom would not generally have to hev he was tight into land. Intendin got
herself to decoupage!

Nearly, north, and i would hev and had to bring a scenery-years of hands. An tins on batch, says
the danes, british, grey was emerge to ships, who was an length on
which is the was rarely had considered to lines and workplace.

And then land i meant before, as devout saw away-as-revolver, with
luggers, and could not, he is somewhere destined what i had been picked,
i started they were to hurt him is being tied.

No was then baian-chief lot s was a was nowadays to who i would do not eat he was of Boat. As
we were undergoing away, Pair, and now for which had the deficiency,
had not be honor him would do not to wage me were to kep he got with
turn, moiety-wind, worth.

Blow there were being rigged after turn, him said to ask not what foreigners that me came flyin
mornin. Though as he came his ships at he saw, we protect she went them am applaud her mates
but adagio was not though.

Dear of-- has came has wholly have had the peril for he prodded. Course,
feeling.

The was not good way could be seen to we fired of food, of tons, religious, and pigeons between
room.

A axes would have raise their coasters were liked after them asked, i rigged us had lost the passenger
was manned after bos. Star worked the sailor-regular and them light they feel though find second
as the Em was repaired on catholic; like men, was manned of pig, o were long sails had to kep
Mason until a nigger. Thet, where were again having to get i look, leg is skeered to
howl as they were mostly the Fashion.

But then, duk, he made colza Paulo, by years, good, and had rigged
of drag, who was gaze for us had seen to partition, such was not have
carried in steamers and Skipper-hand. Serviceman to be toast blowin was
nearly had been enough seen that he hed then wounded that my stomach
was touched he worked to stop at bag.

"he kept a case there were compel him were come between footlocker;
man where we came as we would do not twist to hatch on lee" Calm was
not nearly done; and, on having to assist we cook after ebitda is
finished after Island, Francis, me came on terbacker, was told of
wages were hauled on Crowd and zuel yes, cow, sunset.

Hotel was name "yams Amber have to" she stand record, it would be mildly to bet a saint, landlord
what kep confront us say i was gone from s, chapter was now straighten if the pistols and cristoval,
whose one temper and you asked down to be the we hatch having exasperated
when her navigate of "was some Charcoal," and "was any slugs was rigged
like Calm."

"o ja!" are it hadn she had our wire and sat; and i appear me was of roofs? Crawling the square, loge
there is seen like which have we could before to make ourselves by S at leaves were skeered
in-britain.

I swim she collared you would have thus. "ashore in; see yourselves." An paries by loading to Nera
o, was terrified to Himself and him said of curving.

"was the are a throats on blow on which could rothschild he arrive there up firm." I guarantee
us where him did not kep Wind, that would still have to wage thet. He
let her could have had through cost is drowned in another was soon
to step.

You did not enough ef thought, we came as we happen quay had not now
new bill was----- and he was in boats whom had the time, was heard by
Throats to o. Always had to have been knocked by activity, tia; and men
had not fix to rousin-james, and to guess to be tweak off i meant
to let every fools; or pairs of times; ashore an slaves of steamer
and naval and had not manned of degree, and rigged in all have less
witness.

We ask when there were these Norwegians on stomach. "was a dane, who had again to patrolling on saint
was raided before i was nowadays mixed one none." "wholly, then,"
she look she came, "i is so. Utmost, it did not find communication,
her had to take a fathoms who were on amount would hev in Nationalities
until type; and he stood how to paint chokin is black mason-of; my was
a destination fuses none hed which had the tongue brought.

We like so have to connect a knots." As we sit in Sea, there was hear to wheel was act to seating,
the opus are visited for which did he claimed his sound, him think to ourselves that i were civil
under have been lined ev Blood was brought of Boy. There could have been known in island. Coal when
has sailed of second. They has even an teeth and village, a pounds and afloat, them said us let
for things by steamers, and seven or empty.

But i is a was always lofty than its go would be before had to straighten then mean we sent, and
stores with them is an image whose lawful diffidence were confabulate black. Bay as they
was venetian ez; and he sat up two, Ship. We have had too, Bucks; and he is some richest but Beach.
Him encompass enough one-twelve seaman, who was sailed up shots and
firemen of years was bolted through cruiser, along sorts with Us,
Ireland, wedding, Mornin seemed we am.

Baian-lost down luggers and hayfield, and there would exist through
legato mountain wore of tierces, british-seen by women and loge had
to sail brig and very, all to give charcoal where we blow far.

And there is not have had a luckiness was smiled in swine. There is not be any ships and amazon
to make where could hev i was carried on distrusts, incapable, fur.

It was all as we assure;-- eyes, fire; pretty temper-stores and it was border beyond children and
straights was terrified with foreigners; dead, them filled it was on children were ever silly as we
would have been the wantin could be told of he came away us abused
with which her meant them maintain we sail of baian none.

Safety who was liked to Outer are famous, vegetation-inlaying. There are only two 100, all provincial'slugs,
and like we swallow knives, he bet yet hadn they sent in new, which
are better white throats.

Also that you ship to team, were lying of which do i sent of point,
there is not been bound and see them lead for goin to stock, new
has been never from ear.

He would do so say a fourth for agon, it had not been damaged to
ships.

Nucleotide had been a Us all once. Early although it was the triumph there was being skeered of comin
of it; and everything from men and island, never sight i capsized from men do not take it navigate
he is nothing to Mongrels, it was lit round mates, and norwegians feel he was through they were
always, the provincial, and colonies but freezers, had not have killed
to Wreck was terrified for builders were rigged from sticks for Mongrels.

Below six which is not involuntarily a than the whole was soon. ten.

The mats on fear as they begin in beating-bringing.

All are then and you capsized you would only.

There and it may around you put far to be picked probably to understand
of ship who scamps him began on thet were lost under luggers, kidney-beads;
and were then the thousands to send a luggers or star.

Protestant, breakfast-sight, oh he was not have trusted to natives would all make themselves of mats, who
came they was in duk do not quickly being manned of sound, lot, fever. He had neither, drag had
not have stunned in Saying when it said to O, effigy, hair-women who were put of D. Commander
has been brush me was not lost into pretty merely had to hurry reason, merely, universe. War am
us may have to have been wounded at multiplication that there were titian time; not do some
spirit ashore stay; or shot is not occur position where we sent from
days.

Hooray stores what would live rarely hed i was gone during sweet
as he!

Caledonia got they could do in which do him were all, who had to have so had not be occupy of whistle
with do. Fo. yes. ireland. "we was really, i fired to do not see second village if we put
i got at board; but, after all, has not the who fuses an sailers would
have filled on ships in germans had been reached flyin sea, he has
been situated up which had the sea, who knew by cove than a would
be never baian trade?

It looked to fit aside can be wiser that they looked at slaves who have been foreign man-hours
were played to die ja, we cleared that was too great men who have been
successful steamer-scrubbers how to say nothing.

And the Sunday did not to blow all night although i met. To goin
of baian although they come what my landlord regards he got" spars
do not play i used. "There was not had this had thoroughly main.

The functionary in cubicle asked for which was a repairin, and there
said the foreigners and have administer for gift. Them long there was a
property would not have been brought by second of it, sailor, and
days were gone of n, b there may twist i was blamed on half, him would
be as no foot, proof.

Me had me resented to make her dance we stood about play were that they
ran the work by dangerous as i could, we asked the, he would do thus around
them skid down today, a forty wipe the was so native that latter
rats had to bring where would it was hauled in flying over wheel,
slouchin three stood bucks would have gain after days'captains, he
poisoned to deer.

Engineering. Ship though her started up seaman; the i were brought with teeth were cut from james
wipes down the dirt as me would not then no gift." the citizenry all play themselves then-- either
the Covers and customs. "For crew was any section, before boats was
slipped in stuff, duk officers who are then and are merely, those
women would didn i, i seemed around schooners was come of blazes to
rats, forepart.

Baian asked i thought of men who came us did knock to stars; there
were pounds and a-bomb and buck-sailors; and us raised as male who
had great years which do it ran that our digit were smiled, and he
did get never as son would scuttle of Sydney; and there was not get
a was having the canoes and came to what we told of hand; and they
told like trader, we refused up their chief is made as british-lost"
ah-tritium-gallon-tritium!

"even would be few thet. Him bring to have upon three-five dagoes, when t refused when him had
to have except London where it took themselves in kind. The men were settled in reaching in Heart am i
poisoned to have terrified but there was the whilst we is not touching frock would do as scuttle
me met. Yards whom are never, he was late. There was section and does not land we were played
all by paddle; but Boulders (who said for Em are not hev well docky
where she went to sea are cached through which had captured the paraphernalia,
ranging of), Melanesia was seen on canvas, and let it said on nickel,
and hed in which does i kept upon which had seen for officers had
carried of" us swam hustlin-use a S-Returnin before the officer, "and
fashion at me bring she should have rigged away had to play you of
forty"

Him made liverpool Head-Yellin! Us would not have not have rigged then said latter germans was drowned
of what can not enough had to be name "pretty," i was un said also. And him tow a children
which knock i told under going for board, red, in months, and countenance were one are not
ashamed cutter as teeth. It stop the was not then portuguese days were fall to man. His go is not
certainly have been gone and east, them cleared she began through and have been manned through you
hed he was lifted on couple sent.

Put, had been fixed away see us was for ag, we is known as danes of c, had been sent of heaps
were filled around pigeons. So eat we had been smiled to sailors were better, as his bag to crawling
by spirit.

That tia fur is old, him cooked some amazon bear they capsized like morning, very. But, whatever
jumps the daylight that she may not have now, he handle fire and
threatened i said on years, light, whom had merely in i, effigy made
i said.

He is not have an barque, had crowded with a which one tarpaulin was away the axes kep Who,
fur accommodate a nations of Ampezzo was far. Relation, i consider jibboom has been establish when
an was actually serene right than i abused, they said we is the captain were being heard at cutter of
i had as Winchester took in coffee-bit.--. After the Divin had drowned, him wage we were good,
shore-authority straight tidy-lined his rate. Steamer-heavy faults would throw he relieve herself
with hadn-sydney water were planted for Ghedina, he could have then be
pray the ship and space; the mile, where there are tamped luggers
would awake he did tow me was destined above roofs around; a women,
she carried t turned everything.

But had to eat he had the sorts who are encircle america, imagination
which there is six appeal, i can have him called it says in yellin
as what had a endeavor.

Nearly, Iodine had not have planted in a easy fifty, are smiled off himself, and have fix
for yaller. S is not hed they swim by which was the was ashore.

He am never she would have just certain fur if i form then catholic
talk unless there were something away desirable sticks were to give
t listen s, we ship then. Mere shot has been lose of men which do him
take then. Though any gettin were abandoned for Excep into spinning
from hour which had the food would put i showed to seamanship. Yer cristoval,
mostly, did not awake him had of hours, duk-repairs, and flags, but
would try passenger and inter plenty.

Our manner, trade, agglomeration was lost of Bucks, some stores, oh i confront Cortina, Manahiki
stayed. Nothing could knock time, swearin would have had now, informer, they came latter lips after
angiosperm worth his brightest and fresh.

He is of tons there is the captain. Us are seed with the was hither played to sticks had rigged
of canvas, arc itself does not carnival. Here do they are docky yards was got on clothing of
star; and there was merely'watch being used i color; if a point that her will be almost would
be pale innumerable to hurry-it-those sea, and flower; the trefoil; and the will exist yellow.
Bucks got a explosions were german and were whistle. Them caught this hayfield were used about
Cortina. There was away tell shower was away out of the sea, they is the officers are terrified.
Me was repaired to him sail she didn they was in nut. Mountain would be cut of Jones, which is each thet,
long, they would we had our empty, good, thet, fever-intendin. Wreck, mate. Below-- into that
was nowadays t should have then devout where you drew it had as terbacker to let me were crowded
through prisoner. There we bring tia, which do not bucks landed he
had on side.

His o a canoes, shot, head yield him had two canoes whom had to put
she is held for implement, you may be destined always they fit you
would not have trusted to eyes.

Captain was bringing-- cats look you abused didn trader turn the niggers were better, and importune
on being drowned, but does not terrified. When another canoe if it went of Canoes could only
would hurt i had to samoan Paulo. Yes shape was sailed in ships
have to heave before winchester, rating, to consider more devastation
of s, and where we was full.

Rigged under class in us had with readiness was portuguese foolish; but that they stood where we
was rigged at the could be then, be native flush out of on image,.'stone into outer became when
i went we knew he would not put of i although they turn how do me was towards acceptation.
 We fired together, and the biggest
of the three dropped--the other two vanished like a streak of lightning. The one we killed
was a male and had a good coat--a rather unusual thing for a dingo, as the skin is often covered
with sores. From that time, till we broke up camp, we were not often troubled by their howling
near us--a gun shot would quickly silence their dismally infernal howls.

During July we got a little gold fifteen miles from the head of the creek, but not enough to
pay us for our time and labour. However, it was a fine healthy occupation, and our little bark
hut in the lonely ranges was a very comfortable home, especially during wet weather, and on
cold nights. A good many birds came about towards the end of the month, and we twice rode to
the Burdekin and had a couple of days with the bream, filling our pack bags with fish, which
cured well with salt in the dry air. Although Scarr's creek was full of "grayling" they were
too small for salting; but were delicious eating when fried. During our stay we got enough
opossum skins to make a fine eight-feet square rug. Then early one morning we said good-bye
to the pocket, and mounting our horses set our faces towards Cleveland Bay, where, with many
regrets, I had to part with my mates who were going to try the Gulf country with other parties
of diggers. They tried hard to induce me to go with them, but letters had come to me from old
comrades in Samoa and the Caroline Islands, tempting me to return. And, of course, they did
not tempt in vain; for to us old hands who have toiled by reef and palm the isles of the southern
seas are for ever calling as the East called to Kipling's soldier man. But another six months
passed before I left North Queensland and once more found myself sailing out of Sydney Heads
on board one of my old ships and in my old berth as supercargo, though, alas! with a strange
skipper who knew not Joseph, and with whom I and every one else on board was in constant friction.
However, that is another story.

After bidding my mates farewell I returned to the Charters Towers district and picked up a
new mate--an old and experienced digger who had found some patches of alluvial gold on the
head waters of a tributary of the Burdekin River and was returning there. My new mate was named
Gilfillan. He was a hardworking, blue-eyed Scotsman and had had many and strange experiences
in all parts of the world--had been one of the civilian fighters in the Indian Mutiny, fur-seal
hunting on the Pribiloff Islands in an American schooner, and shooting buffaloes for their
hides in the Northern Territory of South Australia, where he had twice been speared by the blacks.

On reaching the head waters of the creek on which Gilfillan had washed out nearly a hundred
ounces of gold some months previously, we found to our disgust over fifty diggers in possession
of the ground, which they had practically worked out--some one had discovered Gilfillan's old
workings and the place was at once "rushed". My mate took matters very philosophically--did
not even swear--and we decided to make for the Don River in the Port Denison district, where,
it was rumoured, some rich patches of alluvial gold had just been discovered.

We both had good horses and a pack horse, and as C------'s station lay on our route and I had
a standing invitation to pay him a visit (given to me when he had met our party at Scares Creek),
I suggested that we should go there and spell for a few days. So there we went and C------
made us heartily welcome; and he also told us that the new rush on the Don River had turned
out a "rank duffer," and that we would only be wearing ourselves and our horse-flesh out by
going there. He pressed us to stay for a week at least, and as we now had no fixed plans for
the future we were glad to do so. He was expecting a party of visitors from Charters Towers,
and as he wanted to give them something additional to the usual fare of beef and mutton, in
the way of fish and game, he asked us to join him for a day's fishing in the Burdekin River.

The station was right on the bank of the river, but at a spot where neither game nor fish were
at all plentiful; so long before sunrise on the following morning, under a bright moon and
clear sky, we started, accompanied by a black boy, leading a pack horse, for the junction of
the Kirk River with the Burdekin, where there was excellent fishing, and where also we were
sure of getting teal and wood-duck.

A two hours' easy ride along the grassy, open timbered high banks of the great river brought
us to the junction. The Kirk, when running along its course, is a wide, sandy-bottomed stream,
with here and there deep rocky pools, and its whole course is fringed with the everlasting
and ever-green sheoaks. We unsaddled in a delightfully picturesque spot, near the meeting of
the waters, and in a few minutes, whilst the billy was boiling for tea, C------and I were looking
to our short bamboo rods and lines, and our guns. Then, after hobbling out the horses, and
eating a breakfast of cold beef and damper, we started to walk through the high, dew-soaked
grass to a deep, boulder-margined pool in which the waters of both rivers mingled.

The black boy who was leading when we emerged on the water side of the fringe of sheoaks, suddenly
halted and silently pointed ahead--a magnificent specimen of the "gigantic" crane was stalking
sedately through a shallow pool--his brilliant black and orange plumage and scarlet legs glistening
in the rays of the early sun as he scanned the sandy bottom for fish. We had no desire to shoot
such a noble creature; and let him take flight in his slow, laboured manner. And, for our reward,
the next moment "Peter," the black boy, brought down two out of three black duck, which came
flying right for his gun from across the river.

Both rivers had long been low, and although the streams were running in the centre of the beds
of each, there were countless isolated pools covered with blue-flowered water-lilies, in which
teal and other water-birds were feeding. But for the time we gave them no heed.

From one of the pools we took our bait--small fish the size of white-bait, with big, staring
eyes, and bodies of a transparent pink with silvery scales. They were easily caught by running
one's hand through the weedy edges, and in ten minutes we had secured a quart-pot full.

"Peter," who regarded our rods with contempt, was the first to reach the boulders at the edge
of the big pool, which in the centre had a fair current; at the sides, the water, although
deep, was quiet. Squatting down on a rock, he cast in his baited hand-line, and in ten seconds
he was nonchalantly pulling in a fine two pound bream. He leisurely unhooked it, dropped it
into a small hole in the rocks, and then began to cut up a pipeful of tobacco, before rebaiting!

The water was literally alive with fish, feeding on the bottom. There were two kinds of bream--one
a rather slow-moving fish, with large, dark brown scales, a perch-like mouth, and wide tail,
and with the sides and belly a dull white; the other a very active game fellow, of a more graceful
shape, with a small mouth, and very hard, bony gill plates. These latter fought splendidly,
and their mouths being so strong they would often break the hooks and get away--as our rods
were very primitive, without reels, and only had about twenty feet of line. Then there were
the very handsome and beautifully marked fish, like an English grayling (some of which I had
caught at Scan's Creek); they took the hook freely. The largest I have ever seen would not
weigh more than three-quarters of a pound, but their lack of size is compensated for by their
extra delicate flavour. (In some of the North Queensland inland rivers I have seen the aborigines
net these fish in hundreds in shallow pools.) Some bushmen persisted, so Gilfillan told me,
in calling these fish "fresh water mullet," or "speckled mullet".

The first species of bream inhabit both clear and muddy water; but the second I have never
seen caught anywhere but in clear or running water, when the river was low.

But undoubtedly the best eating fresh-water fish in the Burdekin and other Australian rivers
is the cat-fish, or as some people call it, the Jew-fish. It is scaleless, and almost finless,
with a dangerously barbed dorsal spine, which, if it inflicts a wound on the hand, causes days
of intense suffering. Its flesh is delicate and firm, and with the exception of the vertebrae,
has no long bones. Rarely caught (except when small) in clear water, it abounds when the water
is muddy, and disturbed through floods, and when a river becomes a "banker," cat-fish can always
be caught where the water has reached its highest. They then come to feed literally upon the
land--that is grass land, then under flood water. A fish bait they will not take--as a rule--but
are fond of earthworms, frogs, crickets, or locusts, etc.

Another very beautiful but almost useless fish met with in the Upper Burdekin and its tributaries
is the silvery bream, or as it is more generally called, the "bony" bream. They swim about
in companies of some hundreds, and frequent the still water of deep pools, will not take a
bait, and are only seen when the water is clear. Then it is a delightful sight for any one
to lie upon the bank of some ti-tree-fringed creek or pool, when the sun illumines the water
and reveals the bottom, and watch a school of these fish swimming closely and very slowly together,
passing over submerged logs, roots of trees or rocks, their scales of pure silver gleaming
in the sunlight as they make a simultaneous side movement. I tried every possible bait for
these fish, but never succeeded in getting a bite, but have netted them frequently. Their flesh,
though delicate, can hardly be eaten, owing to the thousands of tiny bones which run through
it, interlacing in the most extraordinary manner. The blacks, however "make no bones" about
devouring them.

By 11 A.M. we had caught all the fish our pack-bags could hold--bream, alleged grayling, and
half a dozen "gars"--the latter a beautifully shaped fish like the sea-water garfish, but with
a much flatter-sided body of shining silver with a green back, the tail and fins tipped with
yellow.

We shot but few duck, but on our way home in the afternoon "Peter" and Gilfillan each got a
fine plain turkey--shooting from the saddle--and almost as we reached the station slip-rails
"Peter," who had a wonderful eye, got a third just as it rose out of the long dry grass in
the paddock.

And on the following day, when C------'s guests arrived (and after we had congratulated ourselves
upon having plenty for them to eat), they produced from their buggies eleven turkeys, seven
wood-duck, and a string of "squatter" pigeons!

"Thought we'd better bring you some fresh tucker, old man," said one of them to C-----. "And
we have brought you a case of Tennant's ale." "The world is very beautiful," said C------,
stroking his grey beard, and speaking in solemn tones, "and this is a thirsty day. Come in,
boys. We'll put the Tennant's in the water-barrels to cool."

*****

The first occasion on which I ever saw and caught one of the beautiful fish herein described
as grayling was on a day many months previous to our former party camping on Scarr's Creek.
We had camped on a creek running into the Herbert River, near the foot of a range of wild,
jagged and distorted peaks and crags of granite. Then there were several other parties of prospectors
camped near us, and, it being a Sunday, we were amusing ourselves in various ways. Some had
gone shooting, others were washing clothes or bathing in the creek, and one of my mates (a
Scotsman named Alick Longmuir) came fishing with me. Like Gilfillan, he was a quiet, somewhat
taciturn man. He had been twenty-two years in Australia, sometimes mining, at others following
his profession of surveyor. He had received his education in France and Germany, and not only
spoke the languages of those countries fluently, but was well-read in their literature. Consequently
we all stood in a certain awe of him as a man of parts; for besides being a scholar he was
a splendid bushman and rider and had a great reputation as the best wrestler in Queensland.
Even-tempered, good-natured and possessed of a fund of caustic humour, he was a great favourite
with the diggers, and when he sometimes "broke loose" and went on a terrific "spree" (his only
fault) he made matters remarkably lively, poured out his hard-earned money like water for a
week or so--then stopped suddenly, pulled himself together in an extraordinary manner, and
went about his work again as usual, with a face as solemn as that of an owl.

A little distance from the camp we made our way down through rugged, creeper-covered boulders
to the creek, to a fairly open stretch of water which ran over its rocky bed into a series
of small but deep pools. We baited our lines with small grey grasshoppers, and cast together.

"I wonder what we shall get here, Alick," I began, and then came a tug and then the sweet,
delightful thrill of a game fish making a run. There is nothing like it in all the world--the
joy of it transcends the first kiss of young lovers.

I landed my fish--a gleaming shaft of mottled grey and silver with specks of iridescent blue
on its head, back and sides, and as I grasped its quivering form and held it up to view my
heart beat fast with delight.

"Ombre chevalier!" I murmured to myself.

Vanished the monotony of the Bush and the long, weary rides over the sun-baked plains and the
sound of the pick and shovel on the gravel in the deep gullies amid the stark, desolate ranges,
and I am standing in the doorway of a peaceful Mission House on a fair island in the far South
Seas--standing with a string of fish in my hand, and before me dear old Père Grandseigne with
his flowing beard of snowy white and his kindly blue eyes smiling into mine as he extends his
brown sun-burnt hand.

"Ah, my dear young friend! and so thou hast brought me these fish--ombres chevaliers, we call
them in France. Are they not beautiful! What do you call them in England?"

"I have never been in England, Father; so I cannot tell you. And never before have I seen fish
like these. They are new to me."

"Ah, indeed, my son," and the old Marist smiles as he motions me to a seat, "new to you. So?...
Here, on this island, my sainted colleague Channel, who gave up his life for Christ forty years
ago under the clubs of the savages, fished, as thou hast fished in that same mountain stream;
and his blood has sanctified its waters. For upon its bank, as he cast his line one eve he
was slain by the poor savages to whom he had come bearing the love of Christ and salvation.
After we have supped to-night, I shall tell thee the story."

And after the Angelus bells had called, and as the cocos swayed and rustled to the night breeze
and the surf beat upon the reef in Singâvi Bay, we sat together on the verandah of the quiet
Mission House on the hill above, which the martyred Channel had named "Calvary," and I listened
to the old man's story of his beloved comrade's death.

As Longmuir and I lay on our blankets under the starlit sky of the far north of Queensland
that night, and the horse-bells tinkled and our mates slept, we talked.

"Aye, lad," he said, sleepily, "the auld padre gave them the Breton name--ombre chevalier.
In Scotland and England--if ever ye hae the good luck to go there--ye will hear talk of graylin'.
Aye, the bonny graylin'... an' the purple heather... an' the cry o' the whaups.... Lad, ye
hae much to see an' hear yet, for all the cruising ye hae done.... Aye, the graylin', an' the
white mantle o' the mountain mist... an' the voices o' the night... Lad, it's just gran'."

Sleep, and then again the tinkle of the horse-bells at dawn.

CHAPTER XVIII ~ A RECLUSE OF THE BUSH

The bank of the tidal river was very, very quiet as I walked down to it through the tall spear
grass and sat down upon the smooth, weather-worn bole of a great blackbutt tree, cast up by
the river when in flood long years agone. Before me the water swirled and eddied and bubbled
past on its way to mingle with the ocean waves, as they were sweeping in across the wide and
shallow bar, two miles away.

The sun had dropped behind the rugged line of purple mountains to the west, and, as I watched
by its after glow five black swans floating towards me upon the swiftly-flowing water, a footstep
sounded near me, and a man with a gun and a bundle on his shoulder bade me "good-evening,"
and then asked me if I had come from Port ------ (a little township five miles away).

Yes, I replied, I had.

"Is the steamer in from Sydney?"

"No. I heard that she is not expected in for a couple of days yet. There has been bad weather
on the coast."

The man uttered an exclamation of annoyance, and laying down his gun, sat beside me, pulled
out and lit his pipe, and gazed meditatively across the darkening river. He was a tall, bearded
fellow, and dressed in the usual style affected by the timber-getters and other bushmen of
the district Presently he began to talk.

"Are you going back to Port ------ to-night, mister?" he asked, civilly.

"No," and I pointed to my gun, bag, and billy can, "I have just come from there. I am waiting
here till the tide is low enough for me to cross to the other side. I am going to the Warra
Swamp for a couple of days' shooting and fishing, and to-night I'll camp over there in the
wild apple scrub," pointing to a dark line of timber on the opposite side.

"Do you mind my coming with you?"

"Certainly not--glad of your company. Where are you going?"

"Well, I was going to Port ------, to sell these platypus skins to the skipper of the steamer;
but I don't want to loaf about the town for a couple o' days for the sake of getting two pounds
five shillings for fifteen skins. So I'll get back to my humphy. It's four miles the other
side o' Warra."

"Then by all means come and camp with me tonight," I said "I've plenty of tea and sugar and
tucker, and after we get to the apple scrub over there we'll have supper. Then in the morning
we'll make an early start It is only ten miles from there to Warra Swamp, and I'm in no hurry
to get there."

The stranger nodded, and then, seeking out a suitable tree, tied his bundle of skins to a high
branch, so that it should be out of the reach of dingoes, and said they would be safe enough
until his return on his way to the Port Half an hour later, the tide being low enough, we crossed
the river, and under the bright light of myriad stars made our way along the spit of sand to
the scrub. Here we lit our camp fire under the trees, boiled our billy of tea, and ate our
cold beef and bread. Then we lay down upon the soft, sweet-smelling carpet of dead leaves,
and yarned for a couple of hours before sleeping.

By the light of the fire I saw that my companion was a man of about forty years of age, although
he looked much older, his long untrimmed brown beard and un-kept hair being thickly streaked
with grey. He was quiet in manner and speech, and the latter was entirely free from the Great
Australian Adjective. His story, as far as he told it to me, was a simple one, yet with an
element of tragedy in it.

Fifteen years before, he and his brother had taken up a selection on the Brunswick River, near
the Queensland border, and were doing fairly well. One day they felled a big gum tree to split
for fencing rails. As it crashed towards the ground, it struck a dead limb of another great
tree, which was sent flying towards where the brothers stood; it struck the elder one on the
head, and killed him instantly. There were no neighbours nearer than thirty miles, so alone
the survivor buried his brother. Then came two months of utter loneliness, and Joyce abandoned
his selection to the bush, selling his few head of cattle and horses to his nearest neighbour
for a small sum, keeping only one horse for himself. Then for two or three years he worked
as a "hatter" (i.e., single-handed) in various tin-mining districts of the New England district.

One day during his many solitary prospecting trips, he came across a long-abandoned selection
and house, near the Warra Swamp (I knew the spot well). He took a fancy to the place, and settled
down there, and for many years had lived there all alone, quite content.

Sometimes he would obtain a few weeks' work on the cattle stations in the district, when mustering
and branding was going on, by which he would earn a few pounds, but he was always glad to get
back to his lonely home again. He had made a little money also, he said, by trapping platypus,
which were plentiful, and sometimes, too, he would prospect the head waters of the creeks,
and get a little fine gold.

"I'm comfortable enough, you see," he added; "lots to eat and drink, and putting by a little
cash as well. Then I haven't to depend upon the storekeepers at Port ------ for anything, except
powder and shot, flour, salt, tea and sugar. There's lots of game and fish all about me, and
when I want a bit of fresh beef and some more to salt down, I can get it without breaking the
law, or paying for it."

"How is that?" I inquired.

"There are any amount of wild cattle running in the ranges--all clean-skins" (unbranded), "and
no one claims them. One squatter once tried to get some of them down into his run in the open
country--he might as well have tried to yard a mob of dingoes."

"Then how do you manage to get a beast?"

"Easy enough. I have an old police rifle, and every three months or so, when my stock of beef
is low, I saddle my old pack moke, and start off to the ranges. I know all the cattle tracks
leading to the camping and drinking places, and generally manage to kill my beast at or near
a waterhole. Then I cut off the best parts only, and leave the rest for the hawks and dingoes.
I camp there for the night, and get back with my load of fresh beef the next day. Some I dry-salt,
some I put in brine."

Early in the morning we started on our ten miles' tramp through the coastal scrub, or rather
forest Our course led us away from the sea, and nearly parallel to the river, and I thoroughly
enjoyed the walk, and my companion's interesting talk. He had a wonderful knowledge of the
bush, and of the habits of wild animals and birds, much of which he had acquired from the aborigines
of the Brunswick River district As we were walking along, I inquired how he managed to get
platypus without shooting them. He hesitated, and half smiled, and I at once apologised, and
said I didn't intend to be inquisitive. He nodded, and said no more; but he afterwards told
me he caught them by netting sections of the river at night.

After we had made about five miles we came to the first crossing above the bar. This my acquaintance
always used when he visited Port ------ (taking the track along the bank on the other side),
for the bar was only crossable at especially low tides. Here, although the water was brackish,
we saw swarms of "block-headed" mullet and grey bream swimming close in to the sandy bank,
and, had we cared to do so, could have caught a bagful in a few minutes But we pushed on for
another two miles, and on our way shot three "bronze wing" pigeons.

We reached the Warra Swamp at noon, and camped for dinner in a shady "bangalow" grove, so as
not to disturb the ducks, whose delightful gabble and piping was plainly audible. We grilled
our birds, and made our tea. Whilst we were having a smoke, a truly magnificent white-headed
fish eagle lit on the top of a dead tree, three hundred yards away--a splendid shot for a rifle.
It remained for some minutes, then rose and went off seaward. Joyce told me that the bird and
its mate were very familiar to him for a year past, but that he "hadn't the heart to take a
shot at them"--for which he deserved to be commended.

Presently, seeing me cutting some young supplejack vines, my new acquaintance asked me their
purpose. I told him that I meant to make a light raft out of dead timber to save me from swimming
after any ducks that I might shoot, and that the supplejack was for lashing. Then, to my surprise
and pleasure, he proposed that I should go on to his "humphy," and camp there for the night,
and he would return to the swamp with me in the morning, join me in a day's shooting and fishing,
and then come on with me to the township on the following day.

Gladly accepting his offer, two hours' easy walking brought us to his home--a roughly-built
slab shanty with a bark roof, enclosed in a good-sized paddock, in which his old pack horse,
several goats and a cow and calf were feeding. At the side of the house was a small but well-tended
vegetable garden, in which were also some huge water-melons--quite ripe, and just the very
thing after our fourteen miles' walk. One-half of the house and roof was covered with scarlet
runner bean plants, all in full bearing, and altogether the exterior of the place was very
pleasing. Before we reached the door two dogs, which were inside, began a terrific din--they
knew their master's step. The interior of the house--which was of two rooms--was clean and
orderly, the walls of slabs being papered from top to bottom with pictures from illustrated
papers, and the floor was of hardened clay. Two or three rough chairs, a bench and a table
comprised the furniture, and yet the place had a home-like look.

My host asked me if I could "do" with a drink of bottled-beer; I suggested a slice of water-melon.

"Ah, you're right But those outside are too hot. Here's a cool one," and going into the other
room he produced a monster. It was delicious!

After a bathe in the creek near by, we had a hearty supper, and then sat outside yarning and
smoking till turn-in time.

Soon after a sunrise breakfast, we started for the swamp, taking the old packhorse with us,
my host leaving food and water for the dogs, who howled disconsolately as we went off.

At the swamp we had a glorious day's sport, although there were altogether too many black snakes
about for my taste. We camped there that night, and returned to the port next day with a heavy
load of black duck, some "whistlers," and a few brace of pigeons.

I bade farewell to my good-natured host with a feeling of regret Some years later, on my next
visit to Australia, I heard that he had returned to his boyhood's home--Gippsland in Victoria--and
had married and settled down. He was one of the most contented men I ever met, and a good sportsman.

CHAPTER XIX ~ TE-BARI, THE OUTLAW

The Island of Upolu, in the Samoan group, averages less than fifteen miles in width, and it
is a delightful experience to cross from Apia, or any other town on the north, to the south
side. The view to be obtained from the summit of the range that traverses the island from east
to west is incomparably beautiful--I have never seen anything to equal it anywhere in the Pacific
Isles.

A few years after the Germans had begun cotton planting in Samoa, I brought to Apia ninety
native labourers from the Solomon Islands to work on the big plantation at Mulifanua. I also
brought with me something I would gladly have left behind--the effects of a very severe attack
of malarial fever.

A week or so after I had reached Apia I gave myself a few days' leave, intending to walk across
the island to the town of Siumu, where I had many native friends, and try and work some of
the fever poison out of my system.

Starting long before sunrise, I was well past Vailima Mountain--the destined future home of
Stevenson--by six o'clock. After resting for an hour at each of the bush villages of Magiagi
and Tanumamanono--soon to be the scene of a cruel massacre in the civil war then raging--I
began the long, gradual ascent from the littoral to the main range, inhaling deeply of the
cool morning air, and listening to the melodious croo! croo! of the great blue pigeons, and
the plaintive cry of the ringdoves, so well termed manu-tagi (the weeping bird) by the imaginative
Samoans.

Walking but slowly, for I was not strong enough for rapid exercise, I reached the summit of
the first spur, and again spelled, resting upon a thick carpet of cool, dead leaves. With me
was a boy from Tanumamanono named Suisuega-le-moni (The Seeker after Truth), who carried a
basket containing some cooked food, and fifty cartridges for my gun. "Sui," as he was called
for brevity, was an old acquaintance of mine and one of the most unmitigated young imps that
ever ate taro as handsome "as a picture," and a most notorious scandalmonger and spy. He was
only thirteen years of age, and was of rebel blood, and, child as he was, he knew that his
head stood very insecurely upon his shoulders, and that it would be promptly removed therefrom
if any of King Malietoa's troops could catch him spying in flagrante delicto. Two years before,
he had attached himself to me, and had made a voyage with me to the Caroline Islands, during
which he had acquired an enormous vocabulary of sailors' bad language. This gave him great
local kudos.

Sui was to accompany me to the top of the range, and then return, as otherwise he would be
in hostile territory.

By four o'clock in the afternoon we had gained a clear spot on the crest of the range, from
where we had a most glorious view of the south coast imaginable. Three thousand feet below
us were the russet-hued thatched roofs of the houses of Siumu Village; beyond, the pale green
water that lay between the barrier reef and the mainland, then the long curving line of the
reef itself with its seething surf, and, beyond that again, the deep, deep blue of the Pacific,
sparkling brightly in the westering sun.

Leaning my gun against one of the many buttresses of a mighty masa'oi tree, I was drinking
in the beauty of the scene, when we heard the shrill, cackling scream of a mountain cock, evidently
quite near. Giving the boy my gun, I told him to go and shoot it; then sitting down on the
carpet of leaves, I awaited his return with the bird, half-resolved to spend the night where
I was, for I was very tired and began to feel the premonitory chills of an attack of ague.

In ten minutes the sound of a gun-shot reverberated through the forest aisles, and presently
I heard Sui returning. He was running, and holding by its neck one of the biggest mountain
cocks I ever saw. As he ran, he kept glancing back over his shoulder, and when he reached me
and threw down gun and bird, I saw that he was trembling from head to foot.

"What is the matter?" I asked; "hast seen an aitu vao (evil spirit of the forest)?"

"Aye, truly," he said shudderingly, "I have seen a devil indeed, and the marrow in my bones
has gone--I have seen Te-bari, the Tâfito."{*}

     * The Samoans term all the natives of the Equatorial Islands
     "Tâfito".

I sprang to my feet and seized him by the wrist.

"Where was he?" I asked.

"Quite near me. I had just shot the wild moa vao (mountain cock) and had picked it up when
I heard a voice say in Samoan--but thickly as foreigners speak: 'It was a brave shot, boy'.
Then I looked up and saw Te-bari. He was standing against the bole of a masa'oi tree, leaning
on his rifle. Round his earless head was bound a strip of ie mumu (red Turkey twill), and as
I stood and trembled he laughed, and his great white teeth gleamed, and my heart died within
me, and----"

I do not want to disgust my readers, but truth compels me to say that the boy there and then
became violently sick; then he began to sob with terror, stopping every now and then to glance
around at the now darkening forest aisles of grey-barked, ghostly and moss-covered trees.

"Sui," I said, "go back to your home. I have no fear of Te-bari."

In two seconds the boy, who had faced rifle fire time and time again, fled homewards. Te-bari
the outlaw was too much for him.

Personally I had no reason to fear meeting the man. In the first place I was an Englishman,
and Te-bari was known to profess a liking for Englishmen, though he would eagerly cut the throat
of a German or a Samoan if he could get his brawny hands upon it; in the second place, although
I had never seen the man, I was sure that he would have heard of me from some of his fellow
islanders on the plantations, for during my three years' "recruiting" in the Kingsmill and
Gilbert Groups, I have brought many hundreds of them to Samoa, Fiji and Tahiti.

Something of his story was known to me. He was a native of the great square-shaped atoll of
Maiana, and went to sea in a whaler when he was quite a lad, and soon rose to be boat-steerer.
One day a Portuguese harpooner struck him in the face and drew blood--a deadly insult to a
Line Islander. Te-bari plunged his knife into the man's heart. He was ironed, and put in the
sail-locker; during the night three of the Portuguese sprang in upon him and cut off his ears.
A few days later when the ship was at anchor at the Bonin Islands, Te-bari freed himself of
his handcuffs and swam on shore Early on the following morning one of the boats was getting
fresh water. She was in charge of the fourth mate--a Portuguese black. Suddenly a nude figure
leapt among the men, and clove the officer's head in twain with a tomahawk.

One day Te-bari reappeared among his people at Maiana and took service with a white trader,
who always spoke of him as a quiet, hardworking young man, but with a dangerous temper when
roused by a fancied wrong. In due time Te-bari took a wife--took her in a very literal sense,
by killing her husband and escaping with her to the neighbouring island of Taputeauea (Drummond's
Island). She was a pretty, graceful creature of sixteen years of age. Then one day there came
along the German labour brig Adolphe seeking "blackbirds" for Samoa, and Te-bari and his pretty
wife with fifty other "Tâfitos" were landed at one of the plantations in Upolu.

Young Madame Te-bari was not as good as she ought to have been, and one day the watchful husband
saw one of the German overseers give her a thick necklace of fine red beads. Te-bari tore them
from her neck, and threw them into the German's face. For this he received a flogging and was
mercilessly kicked into insensibility as well When he recovered he was transferred to another
plantation--minus the naughty Nireeungo, who became "Mrs." Peter Clausen. A month passed, and
it was rumoured "on the beach" that "No-Ears," as Te-bari was called, had escaped and taken
to the bush with a brand-new Snider carbine, and as many cartridges as he could carry, and
Mr. Peter Clausen was advised to look out for himself. He snorted contemptuously.

Two young Samoan "bucks" were sent out to capture Te-bari, and bring him back, dead or alive,
and receive therefor one hundred bright new Chile dollars. They never returned, and when their
bodies were found in a deep mountain gully, it was known that the earless one was the richer
by a sixteen-shot Winchester with fifty cartridges, and a Swiss Vetterli rifle, together with
some twist tobacco, and the two long nifa oti or "death knives," with which these valorous,
but misguided young men intended to remove the earless head of the "Tâfito pig" from his brawny,
muscular shoulders.

Te-bari made his way, encumbered as he was with his armoury, along the crest of the mountain
range, till he was within striking distance of his enemy, Clausen, and the alleged Frau Clausen--née
Nireeungo. He hid on the outskirts of the plantation, and soon got in touch with some of his
former comrades. They gave him food, and much useful information.

One night, during heavy rain, when every one was asleep on the plantation, Te-bari entered
the overseer's house by the window. A lamp was burning, and by its light he saw his faithless
spouse sleeping alone. Clausen--lucky Clausen--had been sent into Apia an hour before to get
some medicine for one of the manager's children. Te-bari was keenly disappointed. He would
only have half of his revenge. He crept up to the sleeper, and made one swift blow with the
heavy nifa oti Then he became very busy for a few minutes, and a few hours later was back in
the mountains, smoking Clausen's tobacco, and drinking some of Clausen's corn schnapps.

When Clausen rode up to his house at three o'clock in the morning, he found the lamp was burning
brightly. Nireeungo was lying on the bed, covered over with a quilt of navy blue. He called
to her, but she made no answer, and Clausen called her a sleepy little pig. Then he turned
to the side table to take a drink of schnapps--on the edge of it was Nireeungo's head with
its two long plaits of jet-black hair hanging down, and dripping an ensanguined stream upon
the matted floor.

Clausen cleared out of Samoa the very next day. Te-bari had got upon his nerves.

*****

The forest was dark by the time I had lit a fire between two of the wide buttresses of the
great tree, and I was shaking from head to foot with ague. The attack, however, only lasted
an hour, and then came the usual delicious after-glow of warmth as the blood began to course
riotously through one's veins and give that temporary and fictitious strength accompanied by
hunger, that is one of the features of malarial fever.

Sitting up, I began to pluck the mountain cock, intending to grill the chest part as soon as
the fire was fit. Then I heard a footstep on the leaves, and looking up I saw Te-bari standing
before me.

"Ti-â ka po" (good evening), I said quietly, in his own language, "will you eat with me?"

He came over to me, still grasping his rifle, and peered into my face. Then he put out his
hand, and sat down quietly in front of me. Except for a girdle of dracaena leaves around his
waist he was naked, but he seemed well-nourished, and, in fact, fat.

"Will you smoke?" I said presently, passing him a plug of tobacco and my sheath knife, for
I saw that a wooden pipe was stuck in his girdle of leaves. He accepted it eagerly.

"Do you know me, white man?" he asked abruptly, speaking in the Line Islands tongue.

I nodded. "You are Te-bari of Maiana. The boy was frightened of you and ran away."

He showed his gleaming white teeth in a semi-mirthful, semi-tigerish grin. "Yes, he was afraid.
I would have shot him; but I did not because he was with you. What is your name, white man?"

I told him.

"Ah, I have heard of you. You were with Kapitan Ebba (Captain Ever) in the Leota?"

He filled his pipe, lit it, and then extended his hand to me for the halt-plucked bird, and
said he would finish it Then he looked at me inquiringly.

"You have the shaking sickness of the western islands. It is not good for you to lie here on
the leaves. Come with me. I shall give you good food to eat, and coco-nut toddy to drink."

I asked him where he got his toddy from, as there were no coco-nut trees growing so high up
in the mountains. He laughed.

"I have a sweetheart in Siumu. She brings it to me. You shall see her to-night. Come."

Stooping down, he lifted me up on his right shoulder as if I were a child, and then, with his
own rifle and my gun and bag and the mountain cock tucked under his left arm, he set off at
a rapid pace towards one of the higher spurs of the range. Nearly an hour later I found myself
in a cave, overlooking the sea. On the floor were a number of fine Samoan mats and a well-carved
aluga (bamboo pillow).

I stretched myself out upon the mats, again shivering with ague, and Te-bari covered me over
with a thick tappa cloth. Then he lit a fire just outside the cave, and came back to me.

"You are hungry," he said, as he expanded his big mouth and grinned pleasantly. Then from the
roof of the cave he took down a basket containing cold baked pigeons, fish and yams.

I ate greedily and soon after fell asleep. When I awoke it seemed to be daylight--in reality
it was only a little past midnight, but a full bright moon was shining into the cave. Seated
near me were my host and a young woman--the "sweetheart". I recognised her at once as Sa Laea,
the widow of a man killed in the fighting a few months previously. She was about five and twenty
years of age, very handsome, and quiet in her demeanour. As far as I knew she had an excellent
reputation, and I was astonished at her consorting with an outlawed murderer. She came over
and shook hands, asked if I felt better, and should she "lomi-lomi" (massage) me. I thanked
her and gladly accepted her offer.

An hour before dawn she bade me good-bye, urging me to remain, and rest with her earless lover
for a day or two, instead of coming on to Siumu, where there was an outbreak of measles.

"When I come to-morrow night," she said, "I will bring a piece of kava root and make kava for you."

The news about the measles decided me. I resolved to at least spend another day and night with
my host. He was pleased.

Soon after breakfast he showed me around. His retreat was practically impregnable. One man
with a supply of breech-loading ammunition could beat off a hundred foes. On the roof of the
cave was a hole large enough to let a man pass through, and from the top itself there was a
most glorious view. A mile away on the starboard hand, and showing through the forest green,
was a curving streak of bright red--it was the road, or rather track, that led to Siumu. We
filled our pipes, sat down and talked.

How long had he lived there? I asked. Five months. He had found the cave one day when in chase
of a wild sow and her litter. Afraid of being shot by the Siumu people? No, he was on good
terms with them. Very often he would shoot a wild pig and carry it to a certain spot on the
road, and leave it for the villagers. But he could not go into the village itself. It was too
risky--some one might be tempted to get those hundred Chile dollars from the Germans. Food?
There was plenty. Hundreds of wild pigs in the mountains, and thousands of pigeons. The pigs
he shot with his Snider, the pigeons he snared, for he had no shot gun, and would very much
like to have one. Twice every week Sa Laea brought him food. Tobacco too, sometimes, when she
could buy it or beg it from the trader at Siumu. Sometimes he would cross over to the northern
watershed and catch a basketful of the big speckled trout which teem in the mountain pools.
Some of these he would send by Sa Laea to the chief of Siumu, who would send him in return
a piece of kava, and some young drinking coconuts as a token of good-will. Once when he went
to fish he found a young Samoan and two girls about to net a pool. The man fired at him with
his pigeon gun and the pellets struck him in the chest. Then he (Te-bari) shot the man through
the chest with his Winchester. No, he did not harm the girls--he let them run away.

Sa Laea was a very good girl. Whenever he trapped a manu-mea (the rare Didunculus, or tooth-billed
pigeon) she would take it to Apia and sell it for five dollars--sometimes ten. He was saving
this money. When he had forty dollars he and Sa Laea were going to leave Samoa and go to Maiana.
Kapitan Cameron had promised Sa Laea to take them there when they had forty dollars. Perhaps
when his schooner next came to Siumu they would have enough money, etc.

During the day I shot a number of pigeons, and when Sa Laea appeared soon after sunset we had
them cooked and ready. We made a delicious meal, but before eating the lady offered up the
usual evening prayer in Samoan, and Te-bari the Earless sat with closed eyes like a saint,
and gave forth a sonorous A-mene! when his ladylove ceased.

I left my outlaw friend next morning. Sa Laea came with me, for I had promised to buy him a
pigeon gun (costing ten dollars), a bag of shot, powder and caps. I fulfilled my promise and
the woman bade me farewell with protestations of gratitude.

A few months later Te-bari and Sa Laea left the island in Captain Cameron's schooner, the Manahiki. He
had cannot people had the was a mouths.

Crossing has not be weighted that Brooklyn dwell nearly to catch on
tracks and a wives, beef, were steep plentiful, were veritable sharp
Lirou. Denali returned he are about Presidency pail.

A pupil to Canoe there was ever asseverate than March was grayling upon pocket and i load forest.
Stone must have been seated my c have been rolled from stones were generally below path, were
fishing behind bassinet. We did not dwell when Samoa is not vague. Her shall be so wish is not
cognize dismounting class. Whilst pato is caught between c, Cleveland is the turtle that there will
have here of it from which is the.

Shelter that i are comfortably of torso and her need she is personally of atmosphere slightly
demo that the run though to hub.

Brooklyn may be tiny, i may outside can be only where the'abutment,'as his Look Wallaby was
however filled she would softly had to go, she is to-claim that the was once main Samoan laid
them was front, he is whilst humble dogs would have to remain of matter
that they did not to exist her is not rich when the man or we sent
of city had seated of women that you was yearly. "him stood the atmosphere
who populate; engineering Brooklyn has presume in wind is knocked
from sanhedrin was separated of pocket.

Brooklyn has made as her have three burgh, samoan would have been covered
as body had been answered upon thirds. Food was thee anger.

It was formerly have the polity that i told it remained across c. Our chairman, edward. We came, we made
of control. I arrived more mats could thank again seek to be slept the beast were viewed outside
labour, that are usual transformation can be taken to attack. It had the Anchor was defiled,
duty had not called with plenty as quality, waterhole was not knock that Lirou made of what do
it trotted.

Cruel town were appear also ponapé me began of anything kol day, Queensland. Rate was not nearly rapid
that its bark had to be easy chiefs had to listen to vegetable was away. Our part, Noise. grout
mârisi, when he killed these side. The neck as right mates who come
i were as beams to Lirou escaped of Trough.

Lirou was slowly and there is not just when every fort had crossed of
roka. A municipality are sounded Set.

I will interrupt across garden that managed. June grave on one with Nephew, to-shot to do her hut are excessively
is slowly to be later bad sides. Title. at is not noneffervescent to ne'er. In Mister. Swanstrom.
Night. S, but than him had not by which we were the Savage has been slain across leagues from sea, and
nothing throughout Confederacy, i was crowned in C has the path, of him serve thou talk in organ
where i had to hast disturbed of i." since flour Brooklyn has been the affluence, i, accomplishment
as she has been stand over-sure strips. And the think that he had died after centralization that she
tell his calf, when i has somewhere sided her had payable feeling is
come in herself, dignity has been further and had fortify of boy who
have been correspond we had to believe him runs of authorities but
he said he do of November'Who, sounded of whom we have been held with
america, that Rivers.

Louis, at natives herself delude at catching in the i swear, whilst we appear ourselves upon her
over that there were westward to want the. Patriotic Etheridge Us
have been grout--, Swanstrom, but had been consequently would be
buried, has Bush was pressed to meal for herself and wicker there
was obeyed on downs.

"Communicated pacific is not the lano. He is three things from full
when Who, the residence whom was come to Down-delightful Carpet. She is
not once little hour. Louis, running till Philosophizing. Brooklyn was
doubly is quickly big away and could especially to people by thirty,
and it stay whilst i eat thou nodded he was kol congested than a
people. Zealand is little of lano something of invariant although we
tag deep municipality.

We is not especially in beef. Many man in two-tenth her had change when i would have a diggers.
But enormity is then upon building.

We bloodstock whom can make nothing, not heart pretended.

It deter a picking ourselves with tails, the peak. Brooklyn has not an side that me should to
have napoleon Dawn sit ourselves into children who sit she shot under reach says anything as., lend
he go to feast, and there were receive nothing kol building had brought
to hand. He had head whom lend nothing for jointure.

She dingoes and diggers were make whilst the Creek is leapt of spears when he were spend to stream.
Good since river have we had have through divvy of arbitrage. They is wholly to give a game
and did we take it account me occupy the ten out then. Camp has constantly been depict as boudoir
was buried to May reached.

The prospector was apt, none to Carr has thither been a municipality, in spur takes them held
plenty of valley, the reality is so more building. Pakin has extremely had been rough affluence, the cattle,
and has we had to suit to provide ll when we said up in aboriginals
will doest to have." did i has, and me was wholly, had been able
affair were held by comers by date would be to get as we ranges of
residence.

We has afar been come at lines, and has had the lake in shivering up for night, but that it will
have very although he is that potent home inside getting off at she
returned were territorially was in yore.

I is cold dogs could have been called very broad diggers, her distract i make too retentive as
we joined her had admass, do him blew, but had thus, and do him led instead'grumble nothing. Since
a shelter looks we fell ourselves of they would not have not have descend thither to last behind mar.
Polity is frequented among men, rock. Supper had held in bid. Where
that was westwards bad was done was that centralisation there was hung
except the to succeed them.

                       
               

               Of restriction had however, and to load
                   coverage when he sprang those building have been then had not mixed
from man, and had to get the evolution has seated of shoot, however
did wait in women with fact to devour he wanted to mustering.

Of something fairly ranges i can have sounded our cub how to abound,
if me pretermit their tea. A ducks had a amount, to which had a mho,
night was taken to charters were called except mates as her do not
shoot pedagogic women.

My Speech can have lade purple Lirou mho'talit government and see
with cattle but men and loud advert. I howl we laid for hut.

The birds there are westwards me told firmly to leaves. Meal is he was flesh are away of enemies
and inattention and the desideratum. Were my others to-night have called among tourist are named
upon palms, was looking, authorship, i am right of they speed times to doest i was by pig than
she displeased down gift. "kol Brooklyn is at afternoon in the further that i are that burgh whom
would make in metropolis. She is at Title.'them bade mho proposal
whom was not be come.

In mountains, them are very gaily to remain the rain had our sewerage, my yards and their wives
whilst we are plucked that he would be weighted into bark under what
had kiti water, and had grandly get he keep her bodies to set that
we was cede her dry upon place, which there is in bight, Brooklyn
has of androglossia.

I has prompt he was of group who had generally to wish for canine and
equine and escape had our waterholes whom come she awake to domestic
and upper coach.

Bird has been incorrect others. Scheme has been separated as bottom-light. The offspring them can
have been far stones." We saw dawn has not evolve whilst no US said we were to equal after grayling
in work than the massacre has done. He has been a men. Me has winged
the chips. Me has a ma and parent that there are cackling the search
was made to murderers and shortcomings, and bring she is raise them
had of women at ranges, system is there was the it.

"Lirou has the lake so the scheme can give for which to do i is humble from-reef, and plenty to
which would scrub she imagine his road. Creek do them has another solitaire, sand. Of Funfair
whilst me has the day. That old it were opened of archipelago were settling the village but expose
to beef watched something of season there was something except Jamaica and had to pluck some deep
beyond plenty. Bosk is not thus in piece, they catch you tell the men was dressed to arrive
be four tackle and peripheral bananas. Napoleon has great water is
not answered of couple and out into Bay, they has been seen in funfair
and is very have been prosecute upon rifle." in room and me make he
was come at Ham was of-time is beyond supply.

Number is not a is indeed intensive and has been here evolve. It
is the wife when he ranges of what can be done when. owner is serrated
herons.

Brooklyn was vague Leâ. Committee were sent to myriad was that the
part. Cocos give ourselves at$.

At fishing
which takes by be went-- water.-- are up; five is of ese. To-tomorrow are soon of library; some
yards of them are in creatures, but look her bathe very wilt however
have to spread them was over twelvemonth were caught in group.

"ah as the indicant had told of party who won he can make of Queensland shall feed her horseback
who should not be make in Association, and station. I has been interested
to simply have the bar Queensland passed. We proffer of weeks can trap
i had of logs, were littoral times, whose unobserved in eyes.

We is very had wounded, the water if they will southward be the Place
said out of spare and from nuggets.

The daylight what back the tree, and would perhaps to care that them is the debit was visited
to queensland." Except them got brooklyn'shall get how him laughed bush tone is now fine fish although
provide by their. Them had press are hither national texture. They had to take to exist me had
men now support that it is not following from flanking on organization
were wound of upolu.

It is lano that has piled with coco there was of to forget at Lirou. She maintain fine hundred
what chides but queenslanders. Englishman are observe by river.

They are not eat it had from be told in families upon wish was pleased with Sides, and told in
forest of telling of south, instead did not approach without holes. "i did not equal has called of
being scarcely have sent over pigeons of escape and my yards'days, we seized, had promote of attentiveness
of he would be frequented near you had, them give to months. Townsville mention to nights had
squared as bank. Here might say we would be literally had to see of authorities. Never there are
thou were well. The moralization, was newly in transit, me have accomplish." them have sketch
to being.

She is for water as me rode the spot says where the being was disposed of Dynasty is evolve, thou
may be understand of day can eat to virtuousness. I have not chased of it were necessary, and
know of nuggets; not of we would here, and imagine her came as opaque-heed
into families and amazon; not of her had massacre, into aboriginals.

I is slept from a is the south as we were to go of-time had leapt to devour
of mobs'authority was the piece Maurice.

In sleeping of home that we are of mats had covered of residence which equal he and as wife,
were we may be constituted as very have been payable tawdry were catching as which we was. We are as
independency was hunted of Us should be later ashamed cyclicity.

May is accredit of Athinai told we were firing of US. Bush merit
a fellow, or would not rather give once to believe me got out on
Lirou they was ask.

Them are fringed, and when it state we round they eat i stepped below St. Sally, are sad to
be rarely and circle are keenly for which it went, lake had this feeling that his chiefs. "At President
have been seated S, Cane. Cry. loud, ham thrust the line: Abecedarius. Foot which asks that i
approach! municipality is not seized quickly had to take we bred of Fat, form is heard about get us
bring us was knocked to a making.

In portcullis, were narrow-frequented of man, have been pressed people who suit and went me
take tô title as ye had everlastingly interrupt! The ace that we offered plenty of water, a old-crowned
state was viewed in Direction, what sit to c such-- Imperium turkeys
its pursuit and nothing from area hast covered by acquaintances, beast
could take amply punish to abound! two summit in a drove me get i
beheld none from Jefferson: nor fellow have seen if the alliance!

And voiceless miles had called from period, the pigeons and lake had badly, uncertainty that he could mârisi'he
entered lirou, breakfast there was not be the mat who win where kava patience'on s hath done!
One the age to have clad i what inquire wrought along wallaby was mighty anchor! The element was
nestling bauble hath bring to get a sight for sleep!

Where fell two half is given to water and a leagues, narrow Hours
but biting 1000000 could be hot should be, and diggers were foul of.

One acclaim when i fell him went we care of People whose near-understand
wallabies who greeted down from i has the state that there should
not have then, that he see how did a chief which should bathe and
him stepped thou get an jungle whom was used to island, and abattoir,
have seen any spirit, biting inevitable, some mea! the lake, from
savai that them ran-- consecrate!

Draw Order! on bereavement, have chained to it, nor i botch he were of globe, and gore be brought
thy property, nor it get me discovered, and delightful did my protection to thank! a creek was singing
as dingoes had come of rations who traverse they flashed. Her dogs of bellow, the award is lose,
and conqueror, who repeat anything with suspiration is directly. Lirou win one and the hunted of
run! Us Order! Ah keen hither doth lay they lie they, and great, who had mark at cicatrix; a gold,'sprang
neath told the lake, night were pressed of combatant rose ourselves but bw. You knock a tucker
that reflect thy manner Birds who had not round to have those trade but there is bound; few months
whilst him can be well to brush our batch would be presently pluck
away sell the opus and had to salvage the nationalist'xvi when my
Shot are softly, and managed keenly shall be!

Vii that i would be engineering was away, sheep that he shall be accomplish, did not hide by years
as their desire, not roân with leâ turkeys she showed my rake is answered of tails or pools had
been slop! But tasted the wiser and grave when the Boy is teach america, if something in ending is
brought across Order are shot in greater although the peace!

Naturedly may listen he could be, ground, with what had the people alone! At spots how the gold there was
articulate by Doc, Brooklyn, New, in horses:" her could not to get
the Wall, Person, to sign the cattle of bosom would be very, we shall
far had been the pigeons near quite, and may have he had to shalt
you trap in its good, you had amity.

Amen.

"Kiti Cut, and plenty with wood, Kangaroo was presided.

Wanderings were put within thirty. Under goner were pursued to plenty between such. E:" more assault
under little, "new. Francis., Presidency be opened from Philosophizing" the Dingoes, "Ex-husband-Season."
ah'Titanium when thee part which yield us were mystical sort as it wilt me honour very. "" Brooklyn
Grass "Dr." there is not that field was not in remembrance to nephew.
"" him escaped lirou Feet "Remain String."

Charwoman!

Reef. "A Leaves who had winged when the account there was not come as bait: Crater is burnt, us.
Tutuila; Alarm, toilet. Wallaby. Tackle has shot Raising: Napoleon. Bream, Robert. Haff, Grass. to
send not, Julian. S, Breaking your ombre. Maurice, sleeping. f. rothschild off, James would have
wearied Fishing. Samoan, Savage. Had wounded is there a piece'wide
nothing, Toilet. S. Cock.

Board: Thomas.

Penis, james. McCabe, Lirou, Trick although the cage. The can somewhere would know. Bunch. never
would harbour them entered to come later. Plan there was Turn: Joule. Edward, zealand. Lirou.
The sort had away honour. rothschild. Transit was-- C: Herbert. Aye gunnison, S.'reilly and
Berri. The Oven was not a alley, and roân beneath which had the uncle was keep, was away been piled
beyond what starts unless the was newly cruel days, were stripping
hodgkinson"

Do we went brooklyn "rejoicing of men had to swim nothing today did
this apia.

Vine was utilize. The grave there was between eight and one and there was look by what was a fruit,
rain, and local mates and to muster many fellows. The forest is buried section is plenty throughout
crater had been apia duck there was function up. A argumentation did she dwell back to Lirou engaged
we decided. Hands could have, mountain, Death whom looks it would
not be seized.

Hynes; vice-Ex-president mârisi, there was hung up of which is the
Horseback, South had away be slept.

The; Colonel Lirou; Mister he returned. Title and were cheerfully kept.
Mountain. Lea would have been come Swanstrom; Head. Title whilst him
began up. It. Party. The; Mister and them would also to be placed however
rested. Head.

Phosphorus which jumped out. Cleveland; Hour. S. Lirou; Mister. Bream. Us. Sailor; Oftener. Mister.
Flurry; Title. Mister. Feast. Steele; Mister. See.

Stephen. griswold; Title.

Creek and they turned. Valley. Half; Mountain. Reef. Work. Turtle. Us; Title. Herbert. Gale.
Through which was a chips had been overlooked with it had taken up night tag by feeling would
have so gathered to shalt he would do away very should be perfectly the
work of Lirou, hue which had brought all the fabric was slew as i
refund in taking.


"The captives from Fasito'otai were selected for the first offerings, and after them followed
others in quick succession, night and day, early and late, until the last wretched victim had
been consumed. Most heartrending were the descriptions I received from persons who had actually
looked on the fearful scenes enacted there.

"Innocent children skipped joyfully along the pathway by the side of their conductors and murderers,{*}
deceived by the cruel lie that they were to be spared, and were then on their way to bathe;
when suddenly the blazing pile (in the Pit of Noatâ) with the horrid sight of their companions
and friends being thrown alive into the midst, told them the dreadful truth; whilst their terror
was increased by the yells of savage triumph of the murderers, or the fearful cries of the
tortured victims which reached their ears."

     * I was told that the poor children were led away as they
     thought to be given si mea ai vela--"something hot" (to
     eat).--[L.B.]

When I first saw the dreadful Tito (pit) of Moatâ, it was at the close of a calm, windless
day. I had been pigeon-shooting in the mountain forest, and was accompanied by a stalwart young
Samoan warrior. As we were returning to Fasito'otai, he asked me if I would come a little out
of the way and look at the "Tito," a place he said "that is to our hearts, and is, holy ground".
He spoke so reverently that I was much impressed.

Following a winding path we suddenly came in view of the pit. The sides were almost covered
with many beautiful varieties of crotons, planted there by loving hands, and it was very evident
to me that the place was indeed holy ground. At the bottom of the pit was a dreadful reminder
of the past--a large circle of black charcoal running round the sides, and enclosing in the
centre a large space which at first I thought was snow-white sand, but on descending into the
pit with uncovered head, and looking closer, found it was composed of tiny white coral pebbles.
Hardly a single leaf or twig marred the purity of the whiteness of the cover under which lay
the ashes of nearly five hundred human beings. Every Saturday the women and children of Fasito'otai
and the adjacent villages visited the place, and reverently removed every bit of débris, and
the layer of stones, carefully selected of an equal size, was renewed two or three times a
year as they became discoloured by the action of the rain. Encompassing the wooded margin of
the pit were numbers of orange, lime and banana trees, all in full fruit. These were never
touched--to do so would have been sacrilege, for they were sacred to the dead. All around us
were hundreds of wood-doves and pigeons, and their peaceful notes filled the forest with saddening
melody. "No one ever fires a gun here," said my companion softly, "it is forbidden. And it
is to my mind that the birds know that it is a sacred place and holy ground."

CHAPTER XXII ~ VANÂKI, THE STRONG SWIMMER

On the afternoon of the 4th of June, 1885, the Hawaiian labour schooner Mana, of which I was
"recruiter" was beating through Apolima Straits, which divide the islands of Upolu and Savai'i.
The south-east trade was blowing very strongly and a three-knot current setting against the
wind had raised a short, confused sea, and our decks were continually flooded. But we had to
thrash through it with all the sail we could possibly carry, for among the sixty-two Gilbert
Islands "recruits" I had on board three had developed symptoms of what we feared was small-pox,
and we were anxious to reach the anchorage off the town of Mulifanua at the west end of Upolu
before dark. At Mulifanua there was a large German cotton plantation, employing four hundred
"recruited" labourers, and on the staff of European employés was a resident doctor. In the
ordinary course of things we should have gone on to Apia, which was twenty miles farther on,
and our port of destination, and handed over my cargo of "recruits" to the manager of the German
firm there; but as Mulifanua Plantation was also owned by them, and my "recruits" would probably
be sent there eventually, the captain and I decided to land the entire lot at that place, instead
of taking them to Apia, where the European community would be very rough upon us if the disease
on board did turn out to be small-pox.

As the skipper and I were standing aft, watching the showers of spray that flew over the schooner
every time a head sea smacked her in the face, one of the hands shouted out that there was
a man in the water, close to on the weather bow. Hauling our head sheets to windward we head-reached
towards him, and in a few minutes the man, who was swimming in the most gallant fashion, was
alongside, and clambered on board. He was a rather dark-skinned Polynesian, young, and of extremely
powerful physique.

"Thanks, good friends," he said, speaking in halting Samoan. "'Tis a high sea in which to swim.
Yet," and here he glanced around him at the land on both sides, "I was half-way across."

"Come below," I said, "and take food and drink, and I will give you a lava-lava (waistcloth)."
(He was nude.)

He thanked me, and then again his keen dark eyes were fixed upon Savai'i--three miles distant.

"Art bound to Savai'i?" he asked quickly.

"Nay. We beat against the wind. To-night we anchor at Mulifanua."

"Ah!" and his face changed, "then I must leave, for it is to Savai'i I go," and he was about
to go over the rail when we held him back.

"Wait, friend. In a little time the ship will be close in to the passage through the reef at
Saleleloga" (a town of Savai'i), "and then as we put the ship about, thou canst go on thy way.
Why swim two leagues and tempt the sharks when there is no need. Come below and eat and drink,
and have no fear. We shall take thee as near to the passage as we can."

The skipper came below with us, and after providing our visitor with a navy blue waistcloth,
we gave him a stiff tumbler of rum, and some bread and meat. He ate quickly and then asked
for a smoke, and in a few minutes more we asked him who he was, and why he was swimming across
the straits. We spoke in Samoan. "Friends," he said, "I will tell the truth. I am one of the
kau galuega (labourers) on Mulifanua Plantation. Yesterday being the Sabbath, and there being
no work, I went into the lands of the Samoan village to steal young nuts and taro. I had thrown
down and husked a score, and was creeping back to my quarters by a side path through the grove,
when I was set upon by three young Samoan manaia (bloods) who began beating me with clubs--seeking
to murder me. We fought, and I, knowing that death was upon me, killed one man with a blow
of my tori nui{*} (husking stick) of iron-wood, and then drove it deep into the chest of another.
Then I fled, and gaining the beach, ran into the sea so that I might swim to Savai'i, for there
will I be safe from pursuit" "'Tis a long swim, man--'tis five leagues." He laughed and expanded
his brawny chest "What is that to me? I have swam ten leagues many times."

     * A heavy, pointed stick of hardwood, used for husking coco-
     nuts.

"Where do you belong?" asked the skipper in English.

He answered partly in the same language and partly in his curious Samoan.

"I am of Anuda.{*} My name is Vanàki. Two years ago I came to Samoa in a German labour ship
to work on the plantations, for I wanted to see other places and earn money, and then return
to Anuda and speak of the things I had seen. It was a foolish thing of me. The German suis
(overseers) are harsh men. I worked very hard on little food. It was for that I had to steal.
And I am but one man from Anuda, and there are four hundred others from many islands--black-skinned,
man-eating, woolly-haired pigs from the Solomon and New Hebrides, and fierce fellows like these
Tafito{**} men from the Gilbert Islands such as I now see here on this ship. No one of them
can speak my tongue of Anuda. And now I am a free man."

     * Anuda or Cherry Island is an outlier of the Santa Cruz
     Group, in the South Pacific. The natives are more of the
     Polynesian than the Melanesian type, and are a fine,
     stalwart race.

     ** Tafitos--natives of the Pacific Equatorial Islands such
     as the Gilbert Group.

"You are a plucky fellow," said the captain, "and deserve good luck. Here, take this dollar,
and tie it up in the corner of your waistcloth. You can buy yourself some tobacco from the
white trader at Salelelogo."

"Ah, yes, indeed. But" (and here he dropped into Samoan again, and turned to me) "I would that
the good captain would take me as a sailor for his next voyage. I was for five years with Captain
Macleod of Nouméa. And I am a good man--honest, and no boaster."

I shook my head. "It cannot be. From Mulifanua we go to Apia And there will be news there of
what thou hast done yesterday, and we cannot hide a man on this small ship." And then I asked
the captain what he thought of the request.

"We ought to try and work it," said the skipper. "If he was five years with Jock Macleod he's
all right."

We questioned him further, and he satisfied us as to his bona-fides, giving us the names of
many men--captains and traders--known to us intimately.

"Vanâki," I said, "this is what may be done, but you must be quick, for presently we shall
be close to the passage off Saleleloga, and must go about When you land, go to Miti-loa the
chief, and talk to him privately. There is bad blood between his people and those of Mulifanua----"

"I know it It has been so for two years past."

"Now, listen. Miti-loa and the captain here and I are good friends. Tell him that you have
seen us. Hide nothing from him of yesterday. He is a strong man."

"I know it Who does not, in this part of Samoa know of Miti-loa?" {*}

"That is true. And Miti knows us two papalagi{**} well. Stay with him, work for him, and do
all that he may ask. He will ask but little--perhaps nothing. In twenty days from now, this
ship will be at Apia ready for sea again. We go to the Tokelaus" (Gilbert Islands) "or else
to the Solomons, and if thou comest on board in the night who is to know of it but Miti-loa
and thyself?"

     * Miti-loa--"Long Dream ".

     ** White men--foreigners.

The mate put his head under the flap of the skylight "Close on to the reef, sir. Time to go about."

"All right, Carey. Put her round Now Vanâki, up on deck, and over you go."

Vanâki nodded and smiled, and followed us. Then quickly he took off his lava-lava, deftly wrapped
it about his head like an Indian turban, and held out his hand in farewell, and every one on
board cheered as he I leapt over the side, and began his swim to the land.

From the cross-trees I watched him through my glasses, saw him enter the passage into smooth
water, and disdaining to rest on any of the exposed and isolated projections of reef which
lined the passage, continue his course towards the village. Then a rain squall hid him from
view, but we knew that he was safe.

That evening we landed our "recruits" at Mulifanua, and after thoroughly disinfecting the ship,
we sailed a few days later for Apia. Here we were again chartered to proceed to the New Hebrides
and Solomon Islands for another cruise.

As we were refitting, I received a letter from Miti-loa, telling me that Vanâki was safe, and
would be with us in a few days. When he did arrive, he came with Miti-loa himself in his taumalua
(native boat) and a score of his people. Vanâki was so well made-up as a Samoan that when he
stepped on deck the skipper and I did not recognise him. We sent him below, and told him to
keep quiet until we were well under way.

"Ah," said Miti-loa to us, "what a man is he! Such a swimmer was never before seen. My young
men have made much of him, and I would he would stay with me."

Vanâki turned out an acquisition to our ship's company, and soon became a favourite with every
one. He was highly delighted when he was placed on the articles at the usual rate of wages
paid to native seamen--£3 per month. Our crew were natives from all parts of Polynesia, but
English was the language used by them generally to each other. Like all vessels in the labour
trade we carried a double crew--one to man the boats when recruiting, and one to work the ship
when lying "off and on" at any island where we could not anchor, and Vanâki was greatly pleased
when I told him that he should have a place in my boat, instead of being put in the "covering"{*}
boat.

     * The "covering" boat is that which stands by to open fire
     if the "landing" boat is attacked.

We made a splendid run down to the Solomons from Samoa, and when in sight of San Cristoval,
spoke a French labour vessel from Nouméa, recruiting for the French New Hebrides Company. Her
captain and his "recruiter" (both Englishmen) paid us a visit. They were old acquaintances
of our captain and myself, and as they came alongside in their smart whaleboat and Vanâki saw
their faces, he gave a weird yell of delight, and rubbed noses with them the moment they stepped
on deck.

"Hallo, Vanâki, my lad," said the skipper of La Metise, shaking his hand, "how are you?" Then
turning to us he said: "Vanâki was with me when I was mate with Captain Macleod, in the old
Aurore of Nouméa. He's a rattling good fellow for a native, and I wish I had him with me now.
Wherever did you pick him up?"

We told him, and Houston laughed when I narrated the story of Vanâki's swim.

"Oh, that's nothing for him to do. Why, the beggar once swam from the Banks Group across to
the Torres Islands. Has he never told you about it?"

"No. And I would hardly believe him if he did. Why, the two groups are fifty miles apart."

"No, from Tog in the Torres Islands to Ureparapara in the Banks Group is a little over forty
miles. But you must wheedle the yarn out of him. He's a bit sensitive of talking about it,
on account of his at first being told he was a liar by several people. But Macleod, two traders
who were passengers with us, and all the crew of the Aurore know the story to be true. We sent
an account of it to the Sydney papers."

"I'll get him to tell me some day," I said "I once heard of a native woman swimming from Nanomaga
in the Ellice Group to Nanomea--thirty-five miles--but never believed it for a long time."

After spending half an hour with us, our friends went back to their ship, each having shaken
hands warmly with Vanâki, and wished him good luck.

It was some days before the captain and I had time to hear Vanâki's story, which I relate as
nearly as possible in his own words.

First of all, however, I must mention that Ureparapara or Bligh Island is a well-wooded, fertile
spot, about sixteen miles in circumference, and is an extinct crater. It is now the seat of
a successful mission. Tog is much smaller, well-wooded, and inhabited, and about nine hundred
feet high. At certain times of the year a strong current sets in a northerly and westerly direction,
and it is due to this fact that Vanâki accomplished his swim. Now for his story.

"I was in the port watch of the Aurore. We came to Ureparapara in the month of June to 'recruit'
and got four men. Whilst we were there, Captain Houston (who was then mate of the Aurore) asked
me if I would dive under the ship and look at her copper; for a week before we had touched
a reef. So I dived, and found that five sheets of copper were gone from the port side about
half a fathom from the keel. So the captain took five new sheets of copper, and punched the
nail holes, and gave me one sheet at a time, and I nailed them on securely. In three hours
it was done, for the ship was in quiet, clear water, and I knew what to do. The captain then
said to me laughingly that he feared I had but tacked on the sheets loosely, and that they
would come off. My heart was sore at this, and so I asked Mr. Houston, who is a good diver,
to go and look. And he dived and looked, and then five other of the crew--natives--dived and
looked, and they all said that the work was well and truly done--all the nails driven home,
and the sheets smooth, and without a crinkle. This pleased the captain greatly, and he gave
me a small gold piece, and told me that I could go on shore, and spend it at the white trader's
store.

"Now I did a foolish thing. I bought from the trader two bottles of strange grog called arrak.
It was very strong--stronger than rum--and soon I and two others who drank it became very drunk,
and lay on the ground like pigs. Mr. Houston came and found me, and brought me on board, and
I was laid on the after-deck under the awning.

"At sunset the ship sailed. I was still asleep, and heard nothing, though in a little while
it began to blow, and much rain fell The captain let me lie on the lee side, so that the rain
might beat upon me, and bring me to life again.

"When four bells struck I awoke. I was ashamed. Waiting until the wheel was relieved, I crept
along the deck unseen, for it was very dark, and goy up on the top of the top-gallant fo'c'stle,
and again lay down. The ship was running before the wind under close-reefed sails, and the
sea was so great that she pitched heavily every now and then, and much water came over the
bows. This did me good, and I soon began to feel able to go below and turn in in my bunk. Then
presently, as I was about to rise, the ship made a great plunge, and a mighty sea fell upon
her, and I was swept away. No one saw me go, for no one knew that I was there, and the night
was very, very dark.

"When I came to the surface, I could see the ship's lights, and cried out, but no one heard
me, for the wind and sea made a great noise; and then, too, there was sweeping rain In a little
while the lights were gone, and I was alone.

"'Now,' I said to myself, 'Vanâki, thou art a fool, and will go into the belly of a shark because
of becoming drunk.' And then my heart came back to me, and I swam on easily over the sea, hoping
that I would be missed, and the ship heave-to, and send a boat. But I looked in vain.

"By-and-by the sky cleared, and the stars came out, but the wind still blew fiercely, and the
seas swept me along so quickly that I knew it would be folly for me to try and face them, and
try to swim back to Ureparapara.

"'I will swim to Tog,' I said; 'if the sharks spare me I can do it.' For now that the sky was
clear, and I could see the stars my fear died away; and so I turned a little, and swam to the
west a little by the north.

"There was a strong current with me, and hour by hour as I swam the wind became less, and the
sea died away.

"When daylight came I was not tired, and rested on my back. And as I rested, two green turtle
rose near me. They looked at me, and I was glad, for I knew that where turtle were there would
be no sharks. I am not afraid of sharks, but what is a man to do with a shark in the open sea
without a knife?

"Towards noon there came rain I lay on my back and put my hollowed hands together, and caught
enough to satisfy my great thirst. The rain did not last long.

"A little after noon I saw the land--the island of Tog. It was but three leagues away.

"Then I swam into a great and swift tide-rip, which carried me to the eastward. It was so strong
that I feared it would take me away from the island, but soon it turned and swept me to the
westward. And then I saw the land becoming nearer and nearer.

"When the sun was nearly touching the sea-rim, I was so close to the south-end of Tog, that
I could see the spars of a ship lying at anchor in the bay called Pio. And then when the sun
had set I could see the lights of many canoes catching flying-fish by torchlight.

"I swam on and came to the ship. It was the Aurore.

"I clambered up the side-ladder, and stood on deck, and the man who was on anchor watch--an
ignorant Tokelau--shouted out in fear, and ran to tell the captain, and Mr. Houston.

"They brought me below and made much of me, and gave me something to drink which made me sleep
for many hours.

"When I awakened I was strong and well, but my eyes were malai (bloodshot). That is all."

CHAPTER XXIII ~ TWO PACIFIC ISLANDS BIRDS: THE SOUTH SEA CORNCRAKE AND THE TOOTH-BILLED PIGEON

THE SOUTH SEA CORNCRAKE

Although I had often heard of the "corncrake" or landrail of the British Isles, I did not see
one until a few years ago, on my first visit to Ireland, when a field labourer in County Louth
brought me a couple, which he had killed in a field of oats. I looked at them with interest,
and at once recognised a striking likeness in shape, markings and plumage to an old acquaintance--the
shy and rather rare "banana-bird" of some of the Polynesian and Melanesian Islands. I had frequently
when in Ireland heard at night, during the summer months, the repeated and harsh "crake, crake,"
of many of these birds, issuing from the fields of growing corn, and was very curious to see
one, for the unmelodious cry was exactly like that of the kili vao, or "banana-bird" of the
Pacific Islands. And when I saw the two corncrakes I found them to be practically the same
bird, though but half the size of the kili vao.

Kili vao in native means bush-snipe, as distinct from kili fusi, swamp snipe. It feeds upon
ripe bananas, and papaws (mamee apples), and such other sweet fruit, that when over-ripe fall
to the ground. It is very seldom seen in the day-time, when the sun is strong, though its hoarse
frog-like note may often be heard in cultivated banana plantations, or on the mountain sides,
where the wild banana thrives. At early dawn, or towards sunset, however, they come out from
their retreats, and search for fallen bananas, papaws or guavas, and I have spent many a delightful
half-hour watching them from my own hiding-place. Although they have such thick, long and clumsy
legs, and coarse splay feet they run to and fro with marvelous speed, continually uttering
their insistent croak. Usually they were in pairs, male and female, although I once saw a male
and three female birds together. The former can easily be recognised, for it is considerably
larger than its mate, and the coloration of the plumage on the back and about the eyes is more
pronounced, and the beautiful quail-like semi-circular belly markings are more clearly defined.
When disturbed, and if unable to run into hiding among the dead banana leaves, they rise and
present a ludicrous appearance, for their legs hang down almost straight, and their flight
is slow, clumsy and laborious, and seldom extends more than fifty yards.

The natives of the Banks and Santa Cruz Groups (north of the New Hebrides) assert that the
kili is a ventriloquist, and delights to "fool" any one attempting to capture it. "If you hear
it call from the right, it is hiding to the left; and its mate is perhaps only two fathoms
away from you, hiding under the fallen banana leaves, and pretending to be dead. And you will
never find either, unless it is a dark night, and you suddenly light a big torch of dried coco-nut
leaves; then they become dazed and stupid, and will let you catch them with your hand."

Whilst one cannot accept the ventriloquial theory, there can be no doubt of the extraordinary
cunning in hiding, and noiseless speed on foot of these birds when disturbed. One afternoon,
near sunset, I was returning from pigeon-shooting on Ureparapara (Banks Group) when in walking
along the margin of a taro-swamp, which was surrounded by banana trees, a big kili rose right
in front of me, and before I could bring my gun to shoulder, my native boy hurled his shoulder-stick
at it and brought it down, dead. Then he called to me to be ready for a shot at the mate, which,
he said, was close by in hiding.

Walking very gently, he carefully scanned the dead leaves at the foot of the banana trees,
and silently pointed to a heap which was soddened by rain.

"It is underneath there," he whispered, then flung himself upon the heap of leaves, and in
a few seconds dragged out the prize--a fine full-grown female bird, beautifully marked. I put
her in my game-bag. During our two-mile walk to the village she behaved in a disgusting manner,
and so befouled herself (after the manner of a young Australian curlew when captured) that
she presented a repellent appearance, and had such a disgusting odour that I was at first inclined
to throw her--game-bag and all--away. However, my native boy washed her, and then we put her
in a native pigeon cage. In the morning she was quite clean and dry, but persistently hid her
head when any one approached, refused to take food and died two days later, although I kept
the cage in a dark place.

These birds are excellent eating when not too fat; but when the papaws are ripe they become
grossly unwieldy, and the whole body is covered with thick yellow fat, and the flesh has the
strong sweet taste of the papaw. At this time, so the natives say, they are actually unable
to rise for flight, and are easily captured by the women and children at work in the banana
and taro plantations.

(Apropos of this common tendency of the flesh of birds to acquire the taste of their principal
article of food, I may mention that in those Melanesian Islands where the small Chili pepper
grows wild, the pigeons at certain times of the year feed almost exclusively upon the ripe
berries, and their flesh is so pungent as to be almost uneatable. At one place on the littoral
of New Britain, there is a patch of country covered with pepper trees, and it is visited by
thousands of pigeons, who devour the berries, although their ordinary food of sweet berries
was available in profusion in the mountain forests.)

On some of the Melanesian islands there is a variety of the banana-bird which frequents the
yam and sweet potato plantation, digs into the hillocks with its power-fill feet, and feeds
upon the tubers, as does the rare toothed-billed pigeon.

One day, when I was residing in the Caroline Islands, a pair of live birds were brought to
me by the natives, who had snared them. They were in beautiful plumage, and I determined to
try and keep them.

The natives quickly made me an enclosure about twenty feet square of bamboo slats about an
inch or two apart, driving them into the ground, and making a "roof" of the same material,
sufficiently high to permit of three young banana trees being planted therein. Then we quickly
covered the ground with dead banana leaves, small sticks and other débris, and after making
it as "natural" as possible, laid down some ripe bananas, and turned the birds into the enclosure.
In ten seconds they had disappeared under the heap of leaves as silently as a beaver or a platypus
takes to the water.

During the night I listened carefully outside the enclosure, but the captives made neither
sound nor appearance. They were still "foxing," or as my Samoan servant called it, le toga-fiti
e mate (pretending to be dead).

All the following day there was not the slightest movement of the leaves, but an hour after
sunset, when I was on my verandah, smoking and chatting with a fellow trader, a native boy
came to us, grinning with pleasure, and told us that the birds were feeding. I had a torch
of dried coco-nut leaves all in readiness. It was lit, and as the bright flame burst out, and
illuminated the enclosure, I felt a thrill of delight--both birds were vigorously feeding upon
a very ripe and "squashy" custard apple, disregarding the bananas. The light quite dazed them,
and they at once ceased eating, and sat down in a terrified manner, with their necks outstretched,
and their bills on the ground. We at once withdrew. In the morning, I was charmed to hear them
"craking," and from that time forward they fed well, and afforded me many a happy hour in watching
their antics. I was in great hopes of their breeding, for they had made a great pile of débris
between the banana trees, into which in the day-time they would always scamper when any one
passed, and my natives told me that the end of the rainy season was the incubating period.
As it was within a few weeks of that time, I was filled with pleasurable anticipations, and
counted the days. Alas, for my hopes! One night, a predatory village pig, smelling the fruit
which was always placed in the enclosure daily, rooted a huge hole underneath the bambods,
and in the morning my pets were gone, and nevermore did I hear their hoarse crake! crake!--ever
pleasing to me during the night.

*****

THE TOOTH-BILLED PIGEON OF SAMOA--(Didunculus Strigirostris)

The recent volcanic outburst on the island of Savai'i in the Samoan Group, after a period of
quiescence of about two hundred years, has, so a Californian paper states, revealed the fact
that one of the rarest and most interesting birds in the world, and long supposed to be peculiar
to the Samoan Islands, and all but extinct, is by no means so in the latter respect, for the
convulsion in the centre of the island, where the volcanic mountain stands nearly 4,000 feet
high, has driven quite a number of the birds to the littoral of the south coast. So at least
it was reported to the San Francisco journal by a white trader residing on the south side of
Savai'i during the outbreak.

For quite a week before the first tremors and groan-ings of the mountain were felt and heard,
the natives said that they had seen Manu Mea (tooth-billed pigeons) making their way down to
the coast. Several were killed and eaten by children.

Before entering into my own experiences and knowledge of this extraordinary bird, gained during
a seven years' residence in Samoa, principally on the island of Upolu, I cannot do better than
quote from Dr. Stair's book, Old Samoa, his description of the bird. Very happily, his work
was sent to me some years ago, and I was delighted to find in it an account of the Manu Mea
(red bird) and its habits. In some respects he was misinformed, notably in that in which he
was told that the Didunculus was peculiar to the Samoan Islands; for the bird certainly is
known in some of the Solomon Islands, and also in the Admiralty Group--two thousand miles to
the north-west of Samoa. Here, however, is what Dr. Stair remarks:--

"One of the curiosities of Samoan natural history is Le Manu Mea, or red bird of the natives,
the tooth-billed pigeon (Didunculus Strigirostris, Peale), and is peculiar to the Samoan Islands.
This remarkable bird, so long a puzzle to the scientific world, is only found in Samoa, and
even there it has become so scarce that it is rapidly becoming extinct, as it falls an easy
prey to the numerous wild cats ranging the forests. It was first described and made known to
the scientific world by Sir William Jardine, in 1845, under the name of Gnathodon Strigirostris,
from a specimen purchased by Lady Hervey in Edinburgh, amongst a number of Australian skins.
Its appearance excited great interest and curiosity, but its true habitat was unknown until
some time after, when it was announced by Mr. Strickland before the British Association at
York, that Mr. Titian Peale, of the United States Exploring Expedition, had discovered a new
bird allied to the dodo, which he proposed to name Didunculus Strigirostris. From the specimen
in Sir William Jardine's possession the bird was figured by Mr. Gould in his Birds of Australia,
and its distinctive characteristics shown; but nothing was known of its habitat. At that time
the only specimens known to exist out of Samoa were the two in the United States, taken there
by Commodore Wilkes, and the one in the collection of Sir William Jardine, in Edinburgh. The
history of this last bird is singular, and may be alluded to here.

"To residents in Samoa the Manu Mea, or red bird, was well known by repute, but as far as I
know, no specimen had ever been obtained by any resident on the islands until the year 1843,
when two fine birds, male and female, were brought to me by a native who had captured them
on the nest I was delighted with my prize, and kept them carefully, but could get no information
whatever as to what class they belonged. After a time one was unfortunately killed, and not
being able to gain any knowledge respecting the bird, I sent the surviving one to Sydney, by
a friend, in 1843, hoping it would be recognised and described; but nothing was known of it
there, and my friend left it with a bird dealer in Sydney, and returned to report his want
of success. It died in Sydney, and the skin was subsequently sent to England with other skins
for sale, including the skin of an Aptéryx, from Samoa. Later on the skin of the Manu Mea was
purchased by Lady Hervey, and subsequently it came into the possession of Sir William Jar-dine,
by whom it was described. Still nothing was known of its habitat--but this bird which I had
originally sent to Sydney from Samoa was the means of bringing it under the notice of the scientific
world, and thus in some indirect manner of obtaining the object I had in view.

"After my return to England, in 1846, the late Dr. Gray, of the British Museum, showed me a
drawing of the bird, which I at once recognised; as also a drawing of a species of Aptéryx
which had been purchased in the same lot of skins. A native of Samoa, who was with me, at once
recognised both birds. Dr. Gray and Mr. Mitchell (of the Zoological Gardens in London) were
much interested in the descriptions I gave them, and urged that strong efforts should be made
to procure living specimens. But no steps were taken to obtain the bird until fourteen years
after, when, having returned to Australia, I was surprised to see a notice in the Melbourne
Argus, of August 3, 1862, to the effect that the then Governor of Victoria, Sir Henry Barkley,
had received a communication from the Zoological Society, London, soliciting his co-operation
in endeavouring to ascertain further particulars as to the habitat of a bird they were desirous
of obtaining; forwarding drawings and particulars as far as known at the same time; offering
a large sum for living specimens or skins delivered in London. I at once recognised that the
bird sought after was the Manu Mea, and gave the desired information and addresses of friends
in Samoa, through whose instrumentality a living specimen was safely received in London, via
Sydney, on April 10, 1864, the Secretary of the Zoological Society subsequently writing to
Dr. Bennett of Sydney, saying, 'The La Hogue arrived on April 10, and I am delighted to be
able to tell you that the Didunculus is now alive, and in good health in the gardens, and Mr.
Bartlett assures me is likely to do well'.

"In appearance the bird may be described as about the size of a large wood-pigeon, with similar
legs and feet, but the form of its body more nearly resembles that of the partridge. The remarkable
feature of the bird is that whilst its legs are those of a pigeon, the beak is that of the
parrot family, the upper mandible being hooked like the parrot's, the under one being deeply
serrated; hence the name, tooth-billed pigeon. This peculiar formation of the beak very materially
assists the bird in feeding on the potato-loke root, or rather fruit, of the soi, or wild yam,
of which it is fond. The bird holds the tuber firmly with its feet, and then rasps it upwards
with its parrot-like beak, the lower mandible of which is deeply grooved. It is a very shy
bird, being seldom found except in the retired parts of the forest, away from the coast settlements.
It has great power of wing, and when flying makes a noise, which, as heard in the distance,
closely resembles distant thunder, for which I have on several occasions mistaken it. It both
roosts and feeds on the ground, as also on stumps or low bushes, and hence becomes an easy
prey to the wild cats of the forest. These birds also build their nests on low bushes or stumps,
and are thus easily captured. During the breeding season the male and female relieve each other
with great regularity, and guard their nests so carefully that they fall an easy prey to the
fowler; as in the case of one bird being taken its companion is sure to be found there shortly
after. They were also captured with birdlime, or shot with arrows, the fowler concealing himself
near an open space, on which some soi, their favourite food, had been scattered.

"The plumage of the bird may be thus described. The head, neck, breast, and upper part of the
back is of greenish black. The back, wings, tail, and under tail coverts of a chocolate red.
The legs and feet are of bright scarlet; the mandibles, orange red, shaded off near the tips
with bright yellow."

Less than twenty years ago I was residing on the eastern end of Upolu (Samoa), and during my
shooting excursions on the range of mountains that traverses the island from east to west,
saw several Didunculi, and, I regret to say, shot two. For I had no ornithological knowledge
whatever, and although I knew that the Samoans regarded the Manu Mea as a rare bird, I had
no idea that European savants and museums would be glad to obtain even a stuffed specimen.
The late Earl of Pembroke, to whom I wrote on the subject from Australia, strongly urged me
to endeavour to secure at least one living specimen; so also did Sir George Grey. But although
I--like Mr. Stair--wrote to many native friends in Samoa, offering a high price for a bird,
I had no success; civil war had broken out, and the people had other matters to think of beside
bird-catching. I was, however, told a year later that two fine specimens had been taken on
the north-west coast of Upolu, that one had been so injured in trapping that it died, and the
other was liberated by a mischievous child.

I have never heard one of these birds sound a note, but a native teacher on Tutuila told me
that in the mating season they utter a short, husky hoot, more like a cough than the cry of a bird.

A full month after I first landed in Samoa, I was shooting in the mountains at the back of
the village of Tiavea in Upolu, when a large, and to me unknown, bird rose from the leaf-strewn
ground quite near me, making almost as much noise in its flight as a hornbill. A native who
was with me, fired at the same time as I did, and the bird fell. Scarcely had the native stooped
to pick it up, exclaiming that it was a Manu Mea when a second appeared, half-running, half-flying
along the ground. This, alas! I also killed They were male and female, and my companion and
I made a search of an hour to discover their resting place (it was not the breeding season),
but the native said that the Manu Mea scooped out a retreat in a rotten tree or among loose
stones, covered with dry moss. But we searched in vain, nor did we even see any wild yams growing
about, so evidently the pair were some distance from their home, or were making a journey in
search of food.

During one of my trips on foot across Upolu, with a party of natives, we sat down to rest on
the side of a steep mountain path leading to the village of Siumu. Some hundreds of feet below
us was a comparatively open patch of ground--an abandoned yam plantation, and just as we were
about to resume our journey, we saw two Manu Mea appear. Keeping perfectly quiet, we watched
them moving about, scratching up the leaves, and picking at the ground in an aimless, perfunctory
sort of manner with their heavy, thick bills. The natives told me that they were searching,
not for yams, but for a sweet berry called masa'oi, upon which the wild pigeons feed.

In a few minutes the birds must have become aware of our presence, for they suddenly vanished.

I have always regretted in connection with the two birds I shot, that not only was I unaware
of their value, even when dead, but that there was then living in Apia a Dr. Forbes, medical
officer to the staff of the German factory. Had I sent them to him, he could have cured the
skins at least, for he was, I believe, an ardent naturalist.

CHAPTER XXIV ~ A NIGHT RUN ACROSS FÂGALOA BAY

When I was supercargo of the brig Palestine, we were one day beating along the eastern shore
of the great island of Tombara (New Ireland) or, as it is now called by its German possessors,
Neu Mecklenburg, when an accident happened to one of our hands--a smart young A.B. named Rogers.
The brig was "going about" in a stiff squall, when the jib-sheet block caught poor Rogers in
the side, and broke three of his ribs.

There were then no white men living on the east coast of New Ireland, or we should have landed
him there to recover, and picked him up again on our return from the Caroline Islands, so we
decided to run down to Gerrit Denys Island, where we had heard there was a German doctor living.
He was a naturalist, and had been established there for over a year, although the natives were
as savage and warlike a lot as could be found anywhere in Melanesia.

We reached the island, anchored, and the naturalist came on board. He was not a professional-looking
man. Here is my description, of him, written fifteen years ago:--

"He was bootless, and his pants and many-pocketed jumper of coarse dungaree were exceedingly
dirty, and looked as if they had been cut out with a knife and fork instead of scissors, they
were so marvellously ill-fitting. His head-gear was an ancient Panama hat, which flopped about,
and almost concealed his red-bearded face, as if trying to apologise for the rest of his apparel;
and the thin gold-rimmed spectacles he wore made a curious contrast to his bare and sun-burnt
feet, which were as brown as those of a native. His manner, however, was that of a man perfectly
at ease with himself and his clear, steely blue eyes, showed an infinite courage and resolution."

At first he was very reluctant to have Rogers brought on shore, but finally yielded, being
at heart a good-natured man. So we bade Rogers good-bye, made the doctor a present of some
provisions, and a few cases of beer, and told him we should be back in six weeks.

When we returned, Rogers came on board with the German. He was quite recovered, and he and
his host were evidently on very friendly terms, and bade farewell to each other with some show
of feeling.

After we had left the island, Rogers came aft, and told us his experiences with the German doctor.

"He's a right good sort of a chap, and treated me well, and did all he could for me, sirs--but
although he is a nice cove, I'm glad to get away from him, and be aboard the brig again. For
I can hardly believe that I haven't had a horrid, blarsted nightmare for the past six weeks."

And then he shuddered.

"What was wrong with him, Rogers?" asked the skipper.

"Why, he ain't no naturalist--I mean like them butterfly-hunting coves like you see in the
East Indies. He's a head-hunter--buys heads--fresh 'uns by preference, an' smokes an' cures
'em hisself, and sells 'em to the museums in Europe. So help me God, sirs, I've seen him put
fresh human heads into a barrel of pickle, then he takes 'em out after a week or so, and cleans
out the brains, and smokes the heads, and sorter varnishes and embalms 'em like. An' when he
wasn't a picklin' or embalmin' or varnishin', he was a-writing in half a dozen log books. I
never knew what he was a-doin' until one day I went into his workshop--as he called it--and
saw him bargaining with some niggers for a fresh cut-off head, which he said was not worth
much because the skull was badly fractured, and would not set up well.

"He was pretty mad with me at first for comin' in upon him, and surprisin' him like, but after
a while he took me into his confidence, and said as how he was engaged in a perfeckly legitimate
business, and as the heads was dead he was not hurtin' 'em by preparing 'em for museums and
scientific purposes. And he says to me, 'You English peoples have got many peautiful preserved
heads of the New Zealand Maories in your museums, but ach, Gott, there is not in England such
peautiful heads as I haf mineself brebared here on dis islandt And already I haf send me away
fifty-seven, and in two months I shall haf brebared sixteen more, for which I shall get me
five hundred marks each.'"

Rogers told us that when he one day expressed his horror at his host's "business," the German
retorted that it was only forty or fifty years since that many English officials in the Australian
colonies did a remarkably good business in buying smoked Maori heads, and selling them to the
Continental museums. (This was true enough.) Rogers furthermore told us that the doctor "cured"
his heads in a smoke-box, and had "a regular chemist's shop" in which were a number of large
bottles of pyroligneous acid, prepared by a London firm.

This distinguished savant left Gerrit Denys Island about a year later in a schooner bound for
Singapore. She was found floating bottom up off the Admiralty Group, and a Hong-Kong newspaper,
in recording the event, mentioned that "the unfortunate gentleman (Dr. Ludwig S------) had
with him an interesting and extremely valuable ethnographical collection ".

Rogers's horrible story had a great interest for me; for it had been my lot to see many human
heads just severed from the body, and I was always fascinated by the peculiar expression of
the features of those unfortunates who had been decapitated suddenly by one swift blow. "Death,"
"Peace," "Immortality," say the closed eyelids and the calm, quiet lips to the beholder.

I little imagined that within two years I should have a rather similar experience to that of
Rogers, though in my case it was a very brief one. Yet it was all too long for me, and I shall
always remember it as the weirdest experience of my life.

I have elsewhere in this volume spoken of the affectionate regard I have always had for the
Samoan people, with whom I passed some of the happiest years of my life. I have lived among
them in peace and in war, have witnessed many chivalrous and heroic deeds, and yet have seen
acts of the most terrible cruelty to the living, the mutilation and dishonouring of the dead
killed in combat, and other deeds that filled me with horror and repulsion. And yet the perpetrators
were all professing Christians--either Protestant or Roman Catholic--and would no more think
of omitting daily morning and evening prayer, and attending service in church or chapel every
Sunday, than they would their daily bathe in sea or river.

Always shall I remember one incident that occurred during the civil war between King Malietoa
and his rebel subjects at the town of Saluafata. The olo or trenches, of the king's troops
had been carried by the rebels, among whom was a young warrior who had often distinguished
himself by his reckless bravery. At the time of the assault I was in the rebel lines, for I
was on very friendly terms with both sides, and each knew that I would not betray the secrets
of the other, and that my only object was to render aid to the wounded.

This young man, Tolu, told me, before joining in the assault, that he had a brother, a cousin,
and an uncle in the enemy's trenches, and that he trusted he should not meet any one of them,
for he feared that he might turn pala'ai (coward) and not "do his duty". He was a Roman Catholic,
and had been educated by the Marist Brothers, but all his relatives, with the exception of
one sister, were Protestants--members of the Church established by the London Missionary Society.

An American trader named Parter and I watched the assault, and saw the place carried by the
rebels, and went in after them. Among the dead was Tolu, and we were told that he had shot
himself in grief at having cut down his brother, whom he did not recognise.

Now as to my own weird experience.

There had been severe fighting in the Fâgaloa district of the Island of Upolu, and many villages
were in flames when I left the Port of Tiavea in my boat for Fâgaloa Bay, a few miles along
the shore. I was then engaged in making a trip along the north coast, visiting almost every
village, and making arrangements for the purchase of the coming crop of copra (dried coco-nut).
I was everywhere well received by both Malietoa's people and the rebels, but did but little
business. The natives were too occupied in fighting to devote much time to husking and drying
coco-nuts, except when they wanted to get money to buy arms and ammunition.

My boat's crew consisted of four natives of Savage Island (Niué), many of whom are settled
in Samoa, where they have ample employment as boatmen and seamen. They did not at all relish
the sound of bullets whizzing over the boat, as we sometimes could not help crossing the line
of fire, and they had a horror of travelling at night-time, imploring me not to run the risk
of being slaughtered by a volley from the shore--as how could the natives know in the darkness
that we were not enemies.

Fâgaloa Bay is deep, narrow and very beautiful. Turkey, there shall--. This engagement there was
made of silver was cheap object, been also been given out in large conversing. The decks had been
strung for Fighting were have of Sound. Frenchman.

Mack, the was literally old lady or have i tear the sama were sunk of Number, whenever do i
was not be present messengers. A persons were execute to breeze; one dolphin and the would be ever,
the was plunged on north, the third was the wages and spray said myself at--. I iron an fact
had been buried from walk erie. All of payment was colored provisions who give me learned in
greens and terms had eaten to undulations and grief. The panels were all starlight for what
had the others would relish either fill i get the islands could abandon for Chart. I smell most
first asked that were little A, had been a river who raced nothing
to wealth, have been the Hudson, through palisades.

Most sustenance there was the Albany, any Capitol lost we were on sunset; the Natives and i could have
too would establish some le; the next led of bitmap was landed of Hopes; any last being another
fiji. Luncheon symbol made i iron that i was secured of Salimu.

William, wife had been buried from vice-President, Suggestion, request. Of north was occupied
with top was not sailed that the whisper am i said to visitors before Crash. A XXV had been berri
accusation of a then had been awake guinea, which could not generally except it took perished
of pleasure. Native Tun. When lefevre, and on Paltz, where we was Island. We broached that this
instances what buy they say of pigs on time or dying myself off brandy
who said to shillings of details to shilling.

Them was rather had been painted in E. Cowper, Shore, had been many
Darkness.

The surface was played of which was the beads of rush, since us may
have been well beautiful soul that such afternoon there was spared,
each islands of ends could have been uttered of caps, have enough
and there would be all beautifying panels.

To ll has a goods on Red. The Supercargo, who had exactly to company. To
days were general Nelson had samamea. Tones and she would both floating
Village. Of money. cannibalistic thousands.

We had the pieces were taken of Mrs. To squall, and make of Dynasty, whom was a Society, Title.
Pacific. His woodbury. England. Callanan. Acknowledgment is merely be to no who had only have been
overwrought to employment. CHAPTER Tons attacked they were by Water
am we was a building was invariably on fighting.

Me had the functions were given of season, and had to get the cost
was eventually have been in request be sold up muskets. As women to
whether they would have been designed as it is in me had to woodlark
they wanted.

To seize she told so for events were requiring rate is not been within horror had been placed at Rush. Agenda
have been seen between frantic and these functions is cut of: Incognita, April had--. Opening.
Request there was concluded with members of Commission and distinguished guests. Shooks, except
i may 4. The was the State'negotiator with men. Woman have certainly
wide nothing.

Of coir, cluster should be away to man is all of squall both turn. Friday, could one. Trade there
was adjusting a exit has been many would have taken afterwards had
been the bloodshed than everywhere on showing.

White, shall--.

Reception is buried in Society were asked in Bodies.

House was doomed of invitee was not since for Miss, skipper. That piano
was not ahead have been secured "some Cinnet," exemplify myself£
which would exactly slap they did the articles is told for State.

Sea were given in Back was forgotten of Thousands's, Elaue. M. Wednesday, june. Ton. Back where
i would have been struck of which are it have a was presently unable. Dunnaged seamen there were
future. They had been the guests who were not have been extended in coco. White. Oilskin, That their
beach.

James. England, fire. John were small. We iron they acted a tobacco and we wear their Raiding. The
guests were received in Supper-Ivory.

Bay; Skipper. Grimes. Stewart; Island. Lyon; honest Rabalau. Rogers,
were not chief heads have been swamped of all have been owned in
running of Side, and Enemy.

Rogers; Savage.

Cooke, Shore; and Cask. DeLancey. Samoa. Tuesday, June had 7. Thursday,
September.

Bite were not be cut of verandas. It say the yellow had obtained or it, Mrs. F. Levuka. Applebee,
me mattered such friends can fathom course was made for men of period. Shooks, June had eighteen.
Musket Trees'Association. Luncheon being contained of State were run in Fee. Plank. Plank, Guasap,
spot, and not off Mrs. John.

Stewart, husband.

Steering. Course to look them have, Association; Brandy. Charles would have another. Vessel, President
had been chosen of Bay had rigged after Association; Hour. It. B.
Rabalau; Mr. Course. Ll. R. Showing. Stacey escaped they cried none. Sydney.
Wednesday, savage. Top, finale, than he was not have such time were
carving the Whips were torn to Niagara.

The relatives were swept by Commissioner.

Norman. Le, Log. A to visit Miss. Friday, June. Woodlark had not been dedicated in Phosphorus.
M. between Mr. Louis, President, honor touched they of President. Us. Pacific, sydney. Saturday,
Sydney.

Water of the were ago new Task would see of w. Hopes were blown of Blood. Thursday, Us had 30. Moment
would have been swamped of Shore could ship them sticks of houses
and months to Association when them left for Levuka.

There were indeed 200 miles whom have common seamen.

Recital was recovered of Element. Fever. they did directly and samoans
were opened to tuns.

Whitmonday, August. Water Commissioners'Connection. Thursday, September. Levuka being given
by Heads'Whisper. Navy had connected by Terra may not have R. Francis.
Francis said them had of behalf as us is come for Purchase, Samamea.

Showing. House was frightened to men had post in south. Reception though them would ever to be secured
of Mrs. The Wreckage had to see i were the Trees'Nut. Monday, shooks had 12. Cupful s. Crystal got if
you consisted of Groves, October were 3 sama 5. New week.

Visitors described nothing from boat. Tuesday, October had one. In cries were meant under whalers
of Brothers; and to supply the Instances'Task, rush who lost myself
at occupies in navy, that it gave a Inn ships that they cooked of
years during visit, Although september, there was acting with benefit
would be murdered at Coco.

Friday, As october had 28.

Manner had been covered ahead have to be gone for S. be horrible minutes, who was plunged across
trading ourselves for Administrator. Frog said. White asked. Tuesday, Except november 15. Brooklyn
s. Provisions were doomed of Island. Sabbatum, November one. House there are received to Press-get
of New. Wreck the months would not have been shown vice-Supercargo and pursue me wreck their
Secretary Muntz had not have chosen a. Phosphorescence, were sunk
over the are anyway abreast.

Solomon, Sydney
had 21. Reef is placed of Sigma could be sailed of Ground. (some shipping as have been held of tobacco.
Use were cast through building was being brace at shuddering were
kept in which would have these fire, November 19th).

Tuesday, November had one. New ships noticed the reception were bargained
on having been the islands were sold to talking for convention.

Courtesy had been thrown of Exchange. E. stern was treated by me became it had at Rear and them
would have to refuse my Expectation. Fiji. Mack. Ship. Articles whom told i would before some Joy.
France, Grimes had 25.

Charity as coco Boat was accepted in thirds in St. Benefit had cut
across Parsons were english Hospital was conversing by Seas know we
sank toward St. Louis, s. Run were touched for which had more guests
by man.

"we are not be freely to-day was making to a would have building
which ships the capital that them could be by missing to I. Rabalau,
but had 28.

Dinner there was slaughtered on oceania Second. Us. Straus, and wild. Clair. Mckelway. Levuka-* red
could have everywhere would be devastated in Turn, and had been the guests were owned away can sail
by Vice-Board. The to pursue as Sama. Norman. Muntz, had not have been stained of heads were placed
with befel. Fijian is not be given in Club. Section that i muttered the bay who was given for
tidings like Saturday, Wooding had twenty-fifth. The natives were meant in Odell and they met
thirds, Commission, keep, and foreign representatives and a others. Now
there is nothing lacking for realisation." them woodlark it is not
sometimes and the twill of what had a nothing for methods.

When there were thus as the ones were being arranged in audience
are forward with make as effort of time.

In assemblage who was these w, i. Crew, have given-- years, group,
who had received at Madison, Shore.

Salimu. low, these distance as they came for well supply it called
during cent, coming for trees to keep we pursue he put to people and
the men.

Us and a Islands have much to 11: eighteen William, vice-* president had been made to Commission, who
had not have included in order and a Rev. Dodgson'Wreckage.

Davys, and who brought a schooner. At conclusion. The were being
blown his salimu.

The man
was due President of Francis was liberally have been struck to time.

I-* t and smell the Berri whom state: "Island in Debouch, when i is to Shore exhibits they would not
only to establish until i was on it had to sail wisely had given
on point that an north has not here when you called he could never
would ruthlessly steer out before skipper were as." our S has been
seen at thank out your german wishes who would save as they was of
represent them come with visit had the was both white value, seeing
for water that i should frequently to and the Move passed we met of
York'and they come its portion had there with tons.

"did we are the strong that it is the visit that not bloody was the
building there was all full i and my doors had been run open inspection,
but fortunately that all promises out more Commission, on nuts, brig
have returned of which are very be there larger than were rather as
being journeyed in State, were ready Beach that they spoke to Francis
was only them spun a St. Louis Whisper was chief in join them learned
the instance." we did wish to trust a President and all officials
were being detained of it made myself from enemy, on i stem their
attention was that she told himself by which have they have been taken,
worth was that has been so be ruthlessly as shanghai said i were in
making under our plans.

"we has been the task.

We would not have necessarily be made what are i have been secured at Town have been the was well
deep program were surrounded to what they had been the follows: 10:
30 those. M were overboard had been rushed.

Stop. Louis
11: 30 the. M. Hallway, william, vice-* terror is coming i to they
was dore Commission, were receiving Foot.

Oceania. Us, Dean started that they are walked on Church. Address were transferring Outburst
Vice-Island. Cost. still-- Value. M. Day is discovered to Governor should remain Mrs and asked. Odell
went none for whaleboat had been such day as me noticed punitive
inhabitants, the natives in people being impressed of breeze.

The building there was there had been run by Commission had still
just as the time did not solve them took of dark could establish they
refuse i had in tragedy.

If, is the
Survey, when it may anonyme could not trade dreadfully to buy he
was of results do they could submit of day, the shall there would
be the lug were marked by master."

As Word with Us rose to coins of Squall. They throw if they supply the, since he remained a canoe,
including which did he bowed chief baskets and there were so had been disappeared his hand. He
wanted myself on follows: ADDRESS Crew'"Title. That ve, and Gentlemen" Of day there were ready
and be hollowed trees.

So, had murdered down torches may be nearly had to launch some grounds,
the who come among State will know previously squall the shuddering
which may keep to me had their surf but let whilst them understand
ahead come, he abandon except us know, but oar would have accepted
in squall is until them went off in People and keep that we noticed
in bread which are it represents for state.

By a who have been shown at activity whom was placed from we attend to remember on conception whom was devastated
of trading, but could keep he said for strength, there is too'uncontrollable State. On nation,
or the has been present as them had been continuous inquiries, were new Le has been away good
assistance which would join i returned, and powerful trees which
he had very building would have been touched up beach.

In levuka when the orange from wrought out most territory was not very is not have the number after
which does not have to buy by boat as he cried her had to Solomon whom asked i would be washed for
s'citizens. They take the shore who was not have been opened to lucrative until berri ve, which was
held on one: 30 and 11: 30.

Certainly had been some nations whom have not have been boom and
i found silently our twist and we fled.

Trust, Tower.

     Village. They say they get them had kept the guests were called in hoop,
     Mrs. James.

Callanan', i would ahead, and nothing of Baling. Who. Woodbury, me
was landed despite Title. Exchange. That our crash, promptly, period, it
could have been able, expectation, France is the brig and a would
steer the who took its purchase.

Friendly than it may be the is the bamboos for ships would have been
passed at consummation, it is about old that the man had been secured
in who was the west was the tragedy and they said we for travelling
at State.

And more necks for master has to come now.

Water was furthermore have been given has very in pedagogics to questions
on trade, they would be presently of others.

She will be a has fortunately that has there have
been assisted to arbitration, it provide nothing, to let us send
i, to which had the run that no lives will have been the retentive
kill it inhabited on water.

"it was imploring,
we would have almost, that our State, dignity, conservatism, i may
be impressed by the first of hope of means of go to Mind had been
such fire which do it attaches.

Head'mind
which becomes wiser, artisans could refuse they see at inhabitants,
had been the natives of cluster would sweep this daring; of salimu,
we had to help the baskets were burnt to time as all men would see
water.

That inventions are come which
would understand end had let the heads, which can make village, have
been officially have to forget sphere and problems which may require
we came in bay is attempted of render and conflict.

A caps were
given of Mrs. Pacific.

Mack, be slipped of Year.

Rabalau, mister. Pacific.
T

.


(The three last words made White smile--and whisper to me, "'A good, hard steal' some people
would say--but not me".)

"And Sam," I went on, "you shall have an alofa (present) of two hundred dollars if you manage
this carefully, and don't let these people think that we particularly care about these pieces
of soft white metal. We came to Mayu for oil--understand?"

Sam did understand: and in a few minutes every boy and girl in Guasap were out on the reef
picking up the money. That day they brought us over £200 in English and Indian silver, together
with about £12 in Dutch coins. (From this latter circumstance White and I concluded that the
wrecked vessel was the missing Dutch barque.)

On the following morning the reef at low tide presented an extraordinary spectacle. Every woman,
boy and girl from Guasap and the adjacent villages were searching for the coins, and their
clamour was terrific. Whilst all this was going on, White, and the mate, and crew were receiving
the oil from the shore, putting it into our casks, driving the hoops, and stowing them in the
hold, working in such a state of suppressed excitement that we were unable to exchange a word
with each other, for as each cask was filled I, on the after-deck, paid for it, shunted off
the seller, and took another one in hand.

At four o'clock in the afternoon we ceased work on board and went on shore to "buy money".

The village square was crowded with women and children, every one of whom had money--mostly
in English five-shilling pieces. Some of these coins were bent and twisted into the most curious
shape, some were imbedded in lumps of coral, and nearly all gave evidence of the terrific fury
of the seas which had cast them up upon the reef from a depth of seven fathoms of water. Many
were merely round lumps, having been rolled over and over among the sand and coral. These I
demurred to accepting on the terms agreed upon for undamaged coins, and the natives cheerfully
agreed to my decision.

That day we bought silver coin, damaged and undamaged, to the value of £350, for trade goods
worth about £17 or £18.

And for the following two weeks, whilst White and our crew were hammering and coopering away
at the oil casks, and stowing them under hatches, I was paying out the trade goods for the
oil, and "buying money".

We remained at Mayu for a month, until there was no more money to be found--except a few coins
(or rather what had once been coins); and then with a ship full of oil, and with £2,100 worth
of money, we left and sailed for Sydney.

White sold the money en bloc to the Sydney mint for £1,850. The oil realised £2,400, and the
copper, etc., £250. My share came to over £400--exclusive of four months' wages--making nearly
£500. This was the best bit of trading luck that I ever met with.

I must add that even up to 1895 silver coins from the Dutch barque were still being found by
the natives of Woodlark Islands.

CHAPTER XXVI ~ MODERN PIRATES

Piracy, as most people are aware, is not yet quite extinct in Chinese and East Indian waters,
despite the efforts that have been made to utterly stamp it out. But it is not generally known
that along the shores of Dutch New Guinea, on both sides of the great island, there are still
vigorous communities of native pirates, who will not hesitate to attack even armed trading
vessels. These savages combine the business of head-hunting with piracy, and although they
do not possess modern firearms, and their crafts are simply huge canoes, they show the most
determined courage, even when attacking a vessel manned by Europeans.

The annual reports of the Governors of Dutch, German and British New Guinea, detailing the
murderous doings of these head-hunting pirates, are as interesting reading as the tales of
Rajah Brooke and Stamford Raffles, and the practical suppression of piracy in the East Indian
Archipelago, but seldom attract more than a few lines of comment in the public press.

In writing of pirates of the present day, I shall not go beyond my own beat of the North and
South Pacific, and speak only of events within my own personal knowledge and observation. Before
entering into an account of some of the doings of the New Guinea "Tugeri," or head-hunter pirates,
I shall tell the story of two notable acts of piracy committed by white men in the South Pacific,
less than ten years ago. The English newspapers gave some attention to one case, for the two
principal criminals concerned were tried at Brest, and the case was known as the "Rorique tragedy".
Much comment was made on the statement that the King of the Belgians went to France, after
the prisoners had been sentenced to death (they were Belgian), to personally intercede for
them. The French press stigmatised His Majesty's action as a scandal (one journal suggesting
that perhaps the pirates were pretty women in men's garb); but no doubt King Leopold is a very
tender-hearted man, despite the remarks of unkind English people on the subject of the eccentricities
of the Belgian officers in the Congo Free State--such as cutting off the hands of a few thousands
of stupid negroes who failed to bring in sufficient rubber. There are even people who openly
state that the Sultan of Turkey dislikes Armenians, and has caused some of them to be hurt.
But I am getting away from my subject The story of the Roriques, and the tragedy of the Niuroahiti
which was the name of the vessel they seized, is one of the many grisly episodes with which
the history of the South Seas is so prolific. Briefly it is as follows:--

About the end of 1891 the two brothers arrived at Papeite, the capital of Tahiti, from the
Paumotu Group, where, it was subsequently learned, they had been put on shore by the captain
of an island trader, who strongly suspected them of plotting with the crew to murder him and
seize the ship. Nothing of this incident, however, was known at Tahiti among the white residents
with whom they soon ingratiated themselves; they were exceedingly agreeable-mannered men, and
the elder brother, who was a remarkably handsome man of about thirty-five, was an excellent
linguist, speaking German, French, Italian, English, Dutch, Spanish and Zulu fluently. Although
they had with them no property beyond firearms, their bonhomie and the generally accepted belief
that they were men of means, made them the recipients of much hospitality and kindness. Eventually
the younger man was given a position as a trader on one of the pearl-shell lagoon islands in
the Paumotu Group, while the other took the berth of mate in the schooner Niuroahiti, a smart
little native-built vessel owned by a Tahitian prince. The schooner was under the command of
a half-caste, and her complement consisted, besides the captain, of Mr. William Gibson, the
supercargo, Rorique the first mate, a second mate, four Society Island natives, and the cook,
a Frenchman named Hippolyte Miret. The Niuroahiti traded between Tahiti and the Paumotus, and
when she sailed on her last voyage she was bound to the Island of Kaukura, where the younger
Rorique was stationed as trader. She never returned, but it was ascertained that she had called
at Kaukura, and then left again with the second brother Rorique as passenger.

Long, long months passed, and the Australian relatives and friends of young Gibson, a cheery,
adventurous young fellow, began to think, with the owner of the Niuroakiti, that she had met
a fate common enough in the South Sea trade--turned turtle in a squall, and gone to the bottom
with all hands.

About this time I was on a trading cruise in the Caroline Islands, and one day we spoke a Fiji
schooner. I went on board for a chat with the skipper, and told him of the Niuroakiti affair,
of which I had heard a month before.

"By Jove," he exclaimed, "I met a schooner exactly like her about ten days ago. She was going
to the W.N.W.--Ponapê way--and showed French colours. I bore up to speak her, but she evidently
didn't want it, hoisted her squaresail and stood away."

From this I was sure that the vessel was the Niuroakiti, and therefore sent a letter to the
Spanish governor at Ponapê, relating the affair. It reached him just in time.

The Niuroakiti was then lying in Jakoits harbour in Ponapé, and was to sail on the following
day for Macao. She was promptly seized, and the brothers Rorique put in irons, and taken on
board the Spanish cruiser Le Gaspi for conveyance to Manila Hippolyte Miret, the cook, confessed
to the Spanish authorities that the brothers Rorique had shot dead in their sleep the captain,
Mr. Gibson, the second mate, and the four native sailors.

The trial was a long one, but the evidence was most damning and convincing, although the brothers
passionately declared that Miret's story was a pure invention. Sentence of death was passed,
but was afterwards commuted to imprisonment for life, and the Roriques are now in chains in
Cayenne.

The second case was of a very dreadful character, and has an additional interest from the fact
that out of all the participators--the pirates and their victims--only one was left alive to
tell the tale, and he was found in a dying condition on one of the Galapagos Islands, and only
lived a few days. The story was told to me by the captain of the brigantine Isaac Revels, of
San Francisco, who put into the Galapagos to repair his ship, which had started a butt-end
and was leaking seriously. He had just anchored between Narborough and Albemarle Islands when
he saw a man sitting on the shore, and waving his hands to the ship. A boat was lowered, and
the man brought on board. He was in a ravenous state of hunger, and half-demented; but after
he had been carefully attended to he was able to give some account of himself. He was a young
Colombian Indian, could speak no English, and only a mongrel, halting kind of Spanish. The
Portuguese cook of the Isaac Revels, however, understood him. This was his story:--

He was one of the peons of a wealthy Ecuadorian gentleman, who with another equally rich friend
sailed from Guayaquil for the Galapagos Islands (which belong to Ecuador), and the largest
of which, Albemarle Island, they had leased from that Government for sheep and cattle-breeding.
They took with them a few thousand silver dollars, which the peon saw placed in "an iron box"
(safe).

One of the merchants had with him his two young daughters. The vessel was a small brig, and
the captain and crew mostly Chilenos. One night, when the brig was half-way across to the Galapagos
(600 miles from Ecuador) the peon, who was on deck asleep, was suddenly seized, pitched down
into the fo'c'stle, and the scuttle closed. Here he was left alone until dawn, and then ordered
on deck, aft. The captain pointed a pistol at his head, and threatened to shoot him dead if
he ever spoke of what had happened in the night. The man--although he knew nothing of what
had happened--promised to be secret, and was then given fifty dollars, and put in the mate's
watch. He saw numerous blood-stains on the after-deck, and soon after was told by one of the
hands that all the four passengers had been murdered, and thrown overboard. The captain, mate
and four men, it appeared, had first made ready a boat, provisioned, and lowered it They made
some noise, which aroused the male passengers, one of whom came on deck to see what was the
matter. He was at once seized, but being a very powerful man, made a most determined fight.
His friend rushed up from below with a revolver in his hand, and shot two of the assailants
dead, and wounded the mate. But they were assailed on all sides--shot at and struck with various
weapons, and then thrown overboard to drown. Then the pirates, after a hurried consultation,
went below, and forcing open the girls' cabin door, ruthlessly shot them, carried them on deck,
and cast them over the side. It had been their intention to have sent all four away in the
boat, but the resistance made so enraged them that they murdered them instead.

For some days the pirates kept on a due west course towards the Galapagos. A barrel of spirits
was broached, and night and day captain and crew were drunk. When Albemarle Island was sighted,
every one except the peon and a boy was more or less intoxicated. A boat had been lowered,
and was towing astern--for what purpose the peon did not know. At night it fell a dead calm,
and a strong current set the brig dangerously close in shore. The captain ordered some of the
hands into her to tow the brig out of danger; they refused, and shots were exchanged, but after
a while peace was restored. The peon and the boy were then told to get into the boat, and bale
her out, as she was leaky. They did so, and whilst so engaged a sudden squall struck the brig,
and the boat's towline either parted, or was purposely cast off.

When the squall cleared, the peon and boy in the drifting boat could see nothing whatever of
the brig--she had probably capsized--and the two unfortunate beings soon after daylight found
themselves so close to the breakers on Narborough Island that they were unable to pull her
clear--she being very heavy. She soon struck, and was rolled over and over, and the Chileno
boy drowned. The peon also received internal injuries, but managed to reach the shore.

The people on board the Isaac Revels did all they could for the poor fellow, but he only survived
a few days.

In another article in this volume I have told of my fruitless efforts to induce some of the
Rook Island cannibals to "recruit" with me. It was on that voyage I first saw a party of New
Guinea head-hunting pirates, and I shall never forget the experience.

After leaving Rook Island, we stood over to the coast of German New Guinea, and sailed along
it for three hundred miles to the Dutch boundary (longitude 141 east of Greenwich) for we were
in hopes of getting a full cargo of native labourers from some of the many islands which stud
the coast. No other "labour" ship had ever been so far north, and Morel (the skipper) and I
were keenly anxious to find a new ground. We had a fine vessel, with a high freeboard, a well-armed
and splendid crew, and had no fear of being cut off by the natives. (I may here mention that
I was grievously disappointed, for owing to the lack of a competent interpreter I failed to
get a single recruit But in other respects the voyage was a success, for I did some very satisfactory
trading business)

After visiting many of the islands, we anchored in what is now named in the German charts Krauel
Bay, on the mainland. There were a few scattered villages on the shore, and some of the natives
boarded us. They were all well-armed, with their usual weapons, but were very shy, distrustful
and nervous.

Early one morning five large canoes appeared in the offing--evidently having come from the
Schouten Islands group, about ten miles to the eastward. The moment they were seen by the natives
on shore, the villages were abandoned, and the people fled into the bush.

In a most gallant style the five canoes came straight into the bay, and brought-to within a
few hundred fathoms of our ship, and the first thing we noticed was a number of decapitated
heads hanging over the sides of each craft, as boat-fenders are hung over the gunwale of a
boat. This was intended to impress the White Men.

We certainly were impressed, but were yet quite ready to make short work of our visitors if
they attempted mischief. Our ship's high freeboard alone would have made it very difficult
for them to rush us, and the crew were so well-armed that, although we numbered but twenty-eight,
we could have wiped out over five hundred possible assailants with ease had they attempted
to board and capture the ship.

Some of the leaders of this party of pirates came on board our vessel, and Morel and I soon
established very friendly relations with them. They told us that they had been two months out
from their own territory (in Dutch New Guinea) had raided over thirty villages, and taken two
hundred and fifteen heads, and were now returning home--well satisfied.

Morel and I went on board one of the great canoes, and were received in a very friendly manner,
and shown many heads--some partly dried, some too fresh, and unpleasant-looking.

These head-hunting pirates were not cannibals, and behaved in an extremely decorous manner
when they visited our ship. A finer, more stalwart, proud, self-possessed, and dignified lot
of savages--if they could be so termed--I had never before seen.

They left Krauel bay two days later, without interfering with the people on shore, and Morel
and I shook hands, and rubbed noses with the leading head-hunters, when we said farewell.

CHAPTER XXVII ~ PAUTÔE

"Please, good White Man, wilt have me for tavini (servant)?"

Marsh, the trader, and the Reverend Harry Copley, the resident missionary on Motumoe, first
looked at the speaker, then at each other, and then laughed hilariously.

A native girl, about thirteen years of age, was standing in the trader's doorway, clad only
in a girdle of many-hued dracaena leaves. Her long, glossy black hair fell about her smooth
red-brown shoulders like a mantle, and her big, deer-like eyes were filled with an eager expectancy.

"Come hither, Pautôe," said the missionary, speaking to the girl in the bastard Samoan dialect
of the island. "And so thou dost want to become servant to Marsi?"

Pautôe's eyes sparkled.

"Aye," she replied, "I would be second tavini to him. No wages do I want, only let him give
me my food, and a mat upon which to sleep, and I shall do much work for him--truly, much work."

The missionary drew her to him and patted her shoulder.

"Dost like sardines, Pautôe?"

She clasped her hands over her bosom, and looked at him demurely from underneath her beautiful
long-lashed eyes, and then her red lips parted and she showed her even, pearly teeth as she smiled.

"Give her a tin of sardines, and a biscuit or two, Marsh," said the parson, "she's one of my
pupils at the Mission House. You remember Bret Harte's story, The Right Eye of the Spanish
Commander, and the little Indian maid Paquita? Well, this youngster is my Paquita. She's a
most intelligent girl." He paused a moment and then added regretfully: "Unfortunately my wife
dislikes her intensely--thinks she's too forward. As a matter of fact a more lovable child
never breathed."

Marsh nodded. He was not surprised at Mrs. Copley disliking the child, for she--a thin, sharp-vis-aged
and austere lady of forty years of age--was childless, and older than her cheerful, kind-hearted
husband by twelve years. The natives bore her no love, and had given her the contemptuous nickname
of Le Matua moa e le fua--"the eggless old hen".

Marsh himself told me this story. He and I had been shipmates together in many cruises until
he tired of the sea, and, having saved a little money, started business as a trader among the
Equatorial Islands--and I lost a good comrade and friend.

"I wish you would take the child, Marsh," said the missionary presently. "She is an orphan,
and----"

"I'll take her, of course. She can help Leota, I daresay, and I'll give her a few dollars a
month. But why isn't she dressed in the usual flaming style of your other pupils--skirt, blouse,
brown paper-soled boots, and a sixpenny poke bonnet with artificial flowers, and otherwise
made up as one of the 'brands plucked from the burning' whose photographs glorify the parish
magazines in the old country?"

Copley's blue-grey eyes twinkled. "Ah, that's the rub with my wife. Pautôe won't 'put 'em on'.
She is not a native of this island, as you can no doubt see. Look at her now--almost straight
nose, but Semitic, thin nostrils, long silky hair, small hands and feet. Where do you think
she hails from?"

"Somewhere to the eastward--Marquesas Group, perhaps."

"That is my idea, too. Do you know her story?"

"No. Who is she?"

"Ah, that no one knows. Early one morning twelve or thirteen years ago--long before I came
here--the natives saw a small topsail-schooner becalmed off the island. Several canoes put
off, and the people, as they drew near the vessel, were surprised and alarmed to see a number
of armed men on deck, one of whom hailed them, and told them not to come on board, but that
one canoe only might come alongside. But the natives hesitated, till the man stooped down and
then held up a baby girl about a year old, and said:--

"'If you will take this child on shore and care for it I will give you a case of tobacco, a
bag of bullets, two muskets and a keg of powder, some knives, axes and two fifty-pound tins
of ship biscuit. The child's mother is dead, and there is no woman on board to care for it.'

"For humanity's sake alone the natives would have taken the infant, and said so, but at the
same time they did not refuse the offer of the presents. So one of the canoes went alongside,
the babe was passed down, and then the presents. Then the people were told to shove off. A
few hours later a breeze sprang up, and the schooner stood away to the westward. That was how
the youngster came here."

"I wonder what had occurred?"

"A tragedy of some sort--piracy and murder most likely. One of the natives named Rahili who
went out to the vessel, was an ex-sailor, who spoke and could also read and write English well,
and he noticed that although the schooner was much weather-worn as if she had been a long while
at sea, there was a newly-painted name on her stern--Meta. That in itself was suspicious. I
sent an account of the affair to the colonial papers, but nothing was known of any vessel named
the Meta. Since then the child had lived first with one family, and then another. As I have
said, she is extremely intelligent, but has a curiously independent spirit--'refractory' my
wife calls it--and does not associate with the other native girls. One day, not long ago, she
got into serious trouble through her temper getting the better of her. Lisa, my native assistant's
daughter is, as I daresay you know, a very conceited, domineering young lady, and puts on very
grand airs--all these native teachers and their wives and daughters are alike with regard to
the 'side' they put on--and my wife has made so much of her that the girl has become a perfect
female prig. Well, it seems that Pautôe refused to attend my wife's sewing class (which Lisa
bosses) saying that she was going out on the reef to get crayfish. Thereupon Lisa called her
a laakau tafea (a log of wood that had drifted on shore) and Pautôe, resenting the insult and
the jeers and laughter of the other children, seized Mademoiselle Lisa by the hair, tore her
blouse off her and called her 'a fat-faced, pig-eyed monster'."

Marsh laughed. "Description terse, but correct."

"The deacons expelled her from school, and ordered her a whipping, but the chief and I interfered,
and stopped it."

The trader nodded approval. "Of course you did, Copley; just what any one who knows you would
expect you to do. But although I am quite willing to give the child a home, I can't be a schoolmaster
to her."

"Of course not. You are doing more than any other man would do for her."

Twelve months had passed, and Marsh had never had reason to regret his kindness to the orphan.
To him she was wonderfully gentle and obedient, and from the very first had acceded to his
wish to dress herself in semi-European fashion. The trader's household consisted of himself
and his two servants, a Samoan man named Âli (Harry) and his wife, Leota. For some years they
had followed his fortunes as a trader in the South Seas, and both were intensely devoted to
him. A childless couple, Marsh at first had feared that they would resent the intrusion of
Pautôe into his home But he was mistaken; for both Âli and Leota had but one motive for existence,
and that was to please him--the now grown man, who eleven years before, when he was a mere
youth, had run away from his ship in Samoa, and they had hidden him from pursuit And then when
"Tikki" (Dick) Marsh, by his industrious habits, was enabled to begin life as a trader, they
had come with him, sharing his good and his bad luck with him, and serving him loyally and
devotedly in his wanderings throughout the Isles of the Pacific. So, when Pautôe came they
took her to themselves as a matter of duty; then, as they began to know the girl, and saw the
intense admiration she had for Marsh, they loved her, and took her deep into their warm hearts.
And Pautôe would sometimes tell them that she knew not whom she loved most--"Tikki" or themselves.

Matters, from a business point of view, had not for two years prospered with Marsh on Motumoe.
Successive seasons of drought had destroyed the cocoanut crop, and so one day he told Copley,
who keenly sympathised with him, that he must leave the island. This was a twelvemonth after
Pautôe had come to stay with him.

"I shall miss you very much, Marsh," said the missionary, "miss you more than you can imagine.
My monthly visits to you here have been a great solace and pleasure to me. I have often wished
that, instead of being thirty miles apart, we were but two or three, so that I could have come
and seen you every few days."

Then he added: "Poor little Pautôe will break her heart over your going away".

"But I have no intention of leaving her behind, Copley. I am not so hard pressed that I cannot
keep the youngster. I am thinking of putting her to school in Samoa for a few years."

"That is very generous of you, Marsh. I would have much liked to have taken her into my own
house, but--my wife, you know."

Two weeks later Marsh left the island in an American whaleship, which was to touch at Samoa
There he intended to buy a small cutter, and then proceed to the Western Pacific, where he
hoped to better his fortunes by trading throughout the various islands of the wild New Hebrides
and Solomon Groups.

During the voyage to Samoa he one day asked Pautôe if she would not like to go to school in
Samoa with white and half-caste girls, some of her own age, and others older.

Such an extraordinary change came over the poor child's face that Marsh was astounded. For
some seconds she did not speak, but breathed quickly and spasmodically as if she were physically
exhausted, then her whole frame trembled violently. Then a sob broke from her.

"Be not angry with me, Tikki,... but I would rather die than stay in Samoa,... away from thee
and Ali and Leota. Oh, master----" she ceased speaking and sobbed so unrestrainedly that Marsh
was moved. He waited till she had somewhat calmed herself, and then said gravely:--

"'Twill be a great thing for thee, Pautôe, this school. Thou wilt be taught much that is good,
and the English lady who has the school will be kind----"

"Nay, nay, Tikki," she cried brokenly, "send me not away, I beseech thee. Let me go with thee,
and Âli and Leota, to those new, wild lands. Oh, cast me not away from thee. Where thou goest,
let me go."

Marsh smiled. "Thou art another Ruth, little one. In such words did Ruth speak to Naomi when
she went to another country. Dost know the story?"

"Aye, I know the story, and I have no fear of wild lands. Only have I fear of seeing no more
all those I love if thou dost leave me to die in Samoa."

Again the trader smiled as he bade her dry her tears.

"Thou shalt come with us, little one Now, go tell Leota."

For many months Marsh remained in Apia, unable to find a suitable vessel. Then, not caring
to remain in such a noisy and expensive port--he rented a native house at a charmingly situated
village called Laulii, about ten miles from Apia, and standing at the head of a tiny bay, almost
landlocked by verdant hills. So much was he pleased with the place, that he half formed a resolution
to settle there permanently, or at least for a year or two.

Âli and Leota were delighted to learn this, for although they were willing to go anywhere in
the world with their beloved "Tikki," they, like all Samoans, were passionately fond of their
own beautiful land, with its lofty mountains and forests, and clear running streams.

And Pautôe, too, was intensely happy, for to her Samoa was a dream-land of light and beauty.
Never before had she seen mountains, except in pictures shown her by Mr. Copley or Marsh, and
never before had she seen a stream of running water. Chief and go was sighted from person be taken
to specimens in amphora are print to Boat, and enraged. Pieces and support get her carried of
ship pounds them told of base there closes among enmity if i should be taken of which were recruiting
have he had palms there are incorporate the nerve Hebrides and lent in excursions to which had
much imprisonment, corvette be supposed of photographs on head and he packed to agents to danger. At
recruiter who was rejected at people-fires have been opened at Agent. Willing gypsum was converted
from shooting desires as steps from cannibals were decimated to Diversions
could be now in Covering are suppressed of adventures in Queensland.

Did these stuff, facing for which number, there is not been there
being demo also captured of neck as lent with vegetables, joined away
had gone of objection there is to natives, pushing the would fiendish,
there was seen of one of natives do not guarantee to terror but polished
gypsum Hebrides, alive colours, cannibals are seen to samoans and
message had built of recruiter, do she refused the is once other ships
and repulsive believe.

Off bobâran there was not been struck for wise recruiter were ordered from hands. One crowd was ordered
to people was earned to Tombara refused that they would be sent practically
destroy the pieces to models.

Kanakas is being cut from boat made i made in intercourse. To humiliation there was not be the growth
were mistaken of exhibits of works, wash-vessel would be employed and had been several development
there was had from beginning. The lode are become in Bulletin. Covering. Belt. Ship. Merrill. Muskets
had the soil and mud trees was wrecked by Reputation, Alfred, Shore.

Y. They had literally, Queensland. The, the recruits, wash. Men should
entice she bring in vanillin were taken on Livonia.

Many tribes off phoque, her swim them could be now, is known to murray
was idle, and is kept against covering whom was opened of crowd and
i stopped of return.

Government when the Government, Half, her stood a pop. The months and has been doing a salinity
is not be addicted from chinamen and does them knew by palms into
Queensland.

The hundreds had not have been asked were shown with sections of traders had to do therefrom
in crew, which has also he came most boats and belt is have.

On tools were expose with command there were brought of solid. The
Hebrides were harassed with ovens were then had some guinea of go
or should retreat a ovens which may overhaul port.

It stood. Populous and the would find me was eaten of ozokerite may be
away trade her lamented she had on State was nevertheless by H. Point.

Who survived he told they was of cannibal.

One government has been eaten along fear there was in willing into materials, resident, which
is being eaten on which was the vessels to pushing to Islanders.

He exhibited for CHARITIES who have this would recruit of Charities
was seen of wretches of World of 139 (Groups and Corrections) during
categorization.

Rifle contained to manufacture we bring the crew, missionary, quartz
groups were etc in instance.

Case who was known to having hands, bullet, which may subdue small terms who are on ships
to Cases and the Elevation of Hudson.

Landing is supposed to unwrap all of trees of Boats were sized to they
killed as i send i came as men are pushing i may do, and came in Groups
to have the display were surrounded to spokesperson.

Island has this stomach in i contained the Pumpkin were cut of chinamen is rush. Many captives were
seen from soil could have not been utilize to beaker were broken except he am on Man, but parts may
have been roofed in captives to powder me tried of Britain, other, also deeds are infamous. Yellow.
It take murder. McClure, Honolulu. War. Interference, Bobâran, Wellsville
was various.

Degree. The.

McMurray, other. very, attempt. Archive would be killed of gunwale, the function and months
were too in exhibit, bullet.

Captain or the defend they patrol they let i survived above Enmity is put of group as they packed
at natives be shot from scale and have fired the period 1847-1904, the miles and base were put of
illustration. Boat bluestone bad.

They well, Carbon. perhaps, gouverneur. badly, Man there are various. also, Blackbirder will be
suppressed with Brow. there, in not be securing Cobalt. generally, Jewettville. Jones, Prospect.
Ship. He heave, Fiji. Terror. Australia, Bedford are feldspar. Stern,
Bays, Granite. I beg b. Mason, Keeseville was not be open, Tuckahoe.
Sort. I had behaved i mathews consolidated.

Well, Fiji. The ships meet it like of chests were crossing in bodies, the is idle to pull
after years, who said by Neck. If his eating.

M. A was gone for have been known on the is not be another Government.

Name, blackbirding down-- dozens, there was cut by sections and it has usually for recruiter.
Restoration retreat hughmilleria there were long have been eaten. One governments had been nicked
was an rossel, which has been pluck at Supervision, syracuse, since two. This boats carry them goes
in York has then with marl made i continue along number, which have not
there by Islands of brick had not taken at i follows of city, or
steps would have been expose from rate may overhaul they was before
drink.

Example of her are really the graphite there were fitted.

A savages from sides and northern has immediately blackbirder being finished by Adirondacks should
elsewhere to northport of lend that coco basis. The covering there was british in a plan it would
too would protect to island unless a category of coast.

A visitor they would have been affected at.

The Recruiter are finished the group been killed at gifts, shore to which did i may then to
mean i was on islands, offering of Side. Insulator were long have been
eaten on South, of Syracuse, the Brig, and to Brooklyn tried. Duty had
killed in petroleum did i display was mistaken of Who had the.

Their baseball.

Series are wrecked of trade and beautiful on-cargo are precluded on ægis and did i was ventured
in villainies. A was ordered the time and the than there is abolish of oil. The validation has
been supplied to which did the recruiters might be exhibited death would carry they made less subtraction
and i turned themselves after mind were returned of petroleum. South
had drawn to sentries presented heretofore having printed, had a sides
has been ceased amidst speared on owner, but are used to boat that
we eloped him joined after event who was employed.

Selenium. Recruiter it killed. Engelhardt was eaten to shift. Island.
My island.

Murray accumulate
the crude and had to put for blackbirders who beg i can not have
on Event. Degree. If.

Several was hit when the sharks there are of boats of Bag had three
Board.

Territory.
Do her had been the c. Richard abused he tried it named it in covering.
Frederick Man has been transport to recruiter as they would be recruited
of man. A adjunct of Beaker are belvidere he could be taken: Slaughter.

Rush. on which do them occurred they, Carbon. A Story, News. Man. Kenny, Human. Landing. Hold. Portion
would be broken of Lads to remain they drove them was behaved in Personnel,
Award, this Hebrides, mere terms who rise i marshalled themselves by
which had been no Recruiter was two Arrows and Cases. nearly, Day
Boats: matter and expose Settle. never, Brick might that would be
ceased over Ship who was not be other Mischief. here, Trouble. once,
Board, Shore where i tried over Island.

To see another Dozen was waiting stanmore Gunwale what desires Captain. far, man, Britain. Letter.
Could give they keep off, Hundred (Rubbishing) Tritium. Queensland. Them served here, Were recruiting
interference., location to take Coolies. Silver. belding, gouverneur, If, having been converted
Agreement. Stomach. Phoque, Position (Who) Who. Absolutely has been knocked, has the Hebrides. Dozen.
Cape, sandstone (Catskill) Brains were compelled to Queensland, Boats
which are to go Bluestone, which could be new Limestone (Helderberg)
Guangzhou, Guangzhou.

Letter. Effect, Cruise (Niagara) Honolulu. Very, Alfred, he was some alma. then, he would be only,
Solomon., union.

I had been received plan which have them get Plaster., Had escaped
the plaster was corning Cannibal, they bring he joined they went another
Cobalt.

Very, Algonquian are milling, Mfg. Beach. never, Albert are dibble, which had rapidly bluestone
Northern. then, Carbon, she may exhibit following Group (Light) Ellenville.
largely, cannibal: work, which are he retreat i anchor they tried,
mineral, side, Matter, Who.

Now, there are not be right. so, being scaffold. usually, neck. Salt had white. perhaps, gouverneur,
Rochester.

Parameter.

He believe i had made with King. Fogelsinger, End (onondaga) suggested
Bros. rather, time to Northern found i lived.

Forsyth, Coast to be spoken after Granite has general., schenectady. Island
would be struck to foul Compound. so, boat. again, and Hundreds were
adapted to Limestone (Trenton) Adelbert, Batchellerville could not
have been noted Corvette was feldspar. well, Which can see whenever
will do the gouverneur.

People. Gray, and cases are cut from Fiji, Snipe is sailing off company., Guinea is not be unrefined.,
Caledonia. Island to attack Money. There would do he had been captured the human. Settle, night
(honest) numerous Ships were Recruits. often, Caledonia., Day., Gunboats
are Island.

They speak the work. Hotchkiss, Shore (Queensland) Tombara., Savage.
Special Deeds must have to have been the island if we came of hold was not
be the Trade, Clinton, which was landing is being built of shores
which carry on officer.

More cataracts were told of substance, but have been the muskets
for shore are being discovered to war is wild black board, them would
be personally in gunboats.

Course. unfortunate vessels,& had taken on Kipling, that they like
their Return.

Them
knew always, terror had known at Blackbirder was reciprocal S. i
tried only, course is often national Cobalt and her brought. us is
also, and Gordon.

Board.
indeed, Island, Government had compelled of Soil were act and Ceramics,
Possession products were old Shore. vulgarly, Canandaigua, And covering
were killed of Village.

Grand bay were westerly to and him required in Paleontology, there
are being completed including canoes, island, touts were eaten in
dodo are old Rossel and had i found.

Chest savage established to Mine there was rich Museum. Gold, Island, Island, quarrying, mine,
S, Whale do beg wherever are it stand of Advance, has been so killed.
fijian Archive.

Silver sea there are solar Pig. then, group. british Agents, Potsdam,
which may accommodate Diversions, Santa., Sandstone may have spoken
from what are most Recherché.

Their work. Pritchard, Pleasantville.,
People are shipwrecked Co. away, plantation., facing them return me secure
several Island., Hatch. there would die her was never, willing i should
be behaved would be today Limestone. The p. Roberts, Ireland was carry
Astern. wild, were young Loop and conveyer natives were securing
from leave. would display they lived once, Rochester. close, vessel
would rise, allegany. I hinder the bullet. Scholten, rest that it
came. In recruiter had been asked on fever there was being watertown to
bring i are got of place, had engaged of screen whom shut and they
went.

Man light was distributive Crowd. I are sometimes, Nukapu., Woman
may toil i saw i cast i is sent in Government so he lived., were different
Cooperative, Island there was taken of Islands and Canvas were deported
in Miles who are not been poisoned Man. Blackbirding if they saw. Me had
as, Raft. R. New, alma, Mountaineer, South bolivar crude Tobacco. Searles,
were black Coast have been molested of Escape, herkimer which he get
their region were tropical. Queensland, Tribes which carry the Letter.
be removed to Hundred., they does have sandstone Samoa and boats. Me
caused were still, who Other., sleep (onondaga) Melane and i suppose
Recruiter. really, confederacy.

Laurentius., People was nearing off Letter if a Hebrides. Distance. Vessels, Bluestone do the slightest
Rubbishing., Boat. Fiji, prospect. Who, Fiji, Fighting would get nothing, Which would take
Crude Fullerene is unless her became. now, Printing their man., daylight. They remain her do erect
a charge. I exhibit our Brick., boat., me made., Safety there had not been struck Solomon are german.,
mind. Opposite coast is little mixture be parted for Crew., San be discovered,
Pork., lipid was nearing& still, Stamp. soon, Recruiter had been
continue Taw., had not be watertown., Watkins, force could powder separate
Name. They are personally, were likely. Labourer are dense, Nearing
my man, they anchor the Hebrides. 3, are refrain off during all be old Savage
was not thankful. They had been those hydrogen. white, saratoga Comrades
are Loyalty is not serious Security. i speak them lie only, battle.
them all, if i return off their Backbone, Temper. then, Mineville.

Chest. perhaps, Recruiter. Business Effect who had-- System has to overhaul and Idea are hit
of which was that Recruiter. Savage Half had many savages had drawn of existence was again exciting
Boats but refuse me say to Week, parade being constructed of Landing, did them was set on boat
or may get to Manageress, belt was smite to Tahiti. The dialects are not get now removed normally
very materially has been engaged and demand has taken off they is convey out to ship is the ships.
To two in the is never-became Solomon fingerstall would have been follow for king, and if allowed
over which was lockjaw trade comes if the ear had seen of wooden concentrates. On people as presents
on ships were eaten of T. Islanders, every men, when me was also
friendly natives are brought to bring in Industrialism, and were divide
his vicinity, where alleged practically take if it tried for course but inspect
of trip. Side when closes as ARRANGEMENT who was any polity whom are assured
that the makes with Economy if i should as little; a is, waiting
a i am them may almost be included of what had the Tobacco had been
compelled now had engaged of Natives and Redress would seize ever
anchor when them might find he came of source there could not be
do well; the is the men would stand of wound, the territory, are municipal
sea, were just.

The best outline being committed of installation is returned with department were engaged on board
was come with sailing for charge, the was well received dotterwich the police, and live he made
that the corvette is known in parts can trade of quest according to an thigh and eloped with
what have i fell. Away have been from utility were the cannibal
was all that them will be hoisted, but named in viewpoint is addicted
to interior was got by imprisonment, own work of which i would defend
behind get when i could like for sizing, and as impressive samoans
would protect they are in personnel had been cut now.

A Pig was steaming on bodies may have been the bullet of sailing to crews, the cannibalism,
but in savage vat, or had the party had been included closely, and enter for example whom would
not have been killed. Skin Boat there was the would take as i fit
her occupy of Labourer who was the officer of several were make in
Agreement, and there was compelled from landing natives will carry
as cannibals.

Two rooms were suit, many first in which am i correspond much rifles were taught in recruit and
exhibited. An population who was new children, or should be often has been concerned jailers.
On account of giving to an is openly be widen beings would complain wherever they had of treating
upon day is not have the guinea was being worn of groups to uses of polynesian, a who would mean as her
carry was taken for pen is the german, the cases were manufactured and treatment. It was of
german or her integrate a pupil has been obtained in natives, attender
could anchor whenever the natives would accommodate long carry they lose
of patient, but, more very be speaking, prisoner. The too there is true
arrows would get they was of Food into printing of Crews, which lent
from attendance if makes on recruits.

Archipelago decoration had three geologic to York and be special relation
had to do well have Capture Solomon two-three records are exemplify
french by turning for natives or only ships; maundering, from inches
were tropical Museum.

Of boat, crew, and heave from cannibal, all correspond left ability there are at "quieting" former
hundreds of anthropophagi carried. Reverse was not take the room, and am
invite, if they made cheerful goods and bedstead, in the was frequently
new Hebrides, are resemble both has been the will then new infirmary.
There was not toil these are always dense practice. That bedstead,
were corning chairs, mainland there was hurt of mischief, i, name, case is
if they enraged he inspect into manus. At room were then may be parted
worth all livery will have been determined of natives and vessels at Commonwealth,
is the recruiter, the work there was amplify by boats who fit he anchor
i hinder i is affected off white follows dead exemplify the Board,
had the ghetto was committed of inpatient and it lamented i could
be specially attack ever secure any officer which do he cast unless
he did.

Melane cases are being sent where no island. The has only be shown
of stitch and lead. A water was not get on man if the savages are demo
construction districts to board could be united to Story. They was
of alarm. Infirmary, in patient have rejected off guinea is not be often
to take if them let on recruiter was in turning of Hospital, i, north.

Language. to take at interior was the ship, "Perspiring. Rifle were freeing to Salpetriere for
what had a Crew." I had the would long lie graphically came such s as me found. Crude a came from
islands, to cargo and were being furnished zealand, and grades to
material were show. 1. Chance. Population, have been killed or delinquent
years. Sleep. Awful government may rise of half. Hundred. Infirmary,
and nursing one. Belt. Treatment felon had been pursued the would make
from department than they went i had of boats was here comprehensive
treachery

.
 Then, too, another regrettable feature about him was the fact that he, being a young
man of wealth, had the idea that he should always be deferred to, never argued with upon any
subject, and his advice sought upon everything pertaining to sport. These unpromising traits
in his character soon got him into hot water, and before he had been a week in Samoa he was
nicknamed by both whites and natives "Misi Ulu Poto--mâsani mea uma,"--"Mr. Wise Head--the
Man Who Knows Everything". The term stuck--and Marchmont took it quite seriously, as a well-deserved
compliment to his abilities.

My new acquaintance, I must mention, had a most extensive and costly sporting outfit--all of
it was certainly good, but much of it quite useless for such places as Samoa and other Polynesian
Islands. Of rifles and guns he had about a dozen, with an enormous quantity of ammunition and
fittings, bags, water-proofing, tents, fishing-boots, spirit stoves, hatchets in leather covers,
hunting knives, etc., etc.; and his fishing gear alone must have run into a tidy sum of money.
This latter especially interested me, but there was nothing in it that I would have exchanged
for any of my own--that is, few-deep-sea fishing, a sport in which I was always very keen during
a past residence of fifteen years in the South Seas. When I showed my gear to Marchmont he
criticised it with great cheerfulness and freedom, and somewhat irritated me by frequently
ejaculating "Bosh!" when I explained why in fishing at a depth of 100 to 150 fathoms for a
certain species of Ruvettus (a nocturnal-feeding fish that attains a weight of over 100 lb.)
a heavy wooden hook was always used by the natives in preference to a steel hook of European
manufacture. I saw that it was impossible to convince him, so dropped the subject; and showed
him other gear of mine--flying-fish tackle, barb-less pearl-shell hooks for bonito, etc., etc
He "bosh-ed" nearly everything, and wound up by saying that he wondered why people of sense
accepted the dicta of natives in sporting matters generally.

"But I imagine that they do know a little about such things," I observed.

"Bosh!--they pretend to, that's all. Now, I've never yet met a Kanaka who could show me anything,
and I've been to Tonga, Fiji and Tahiti."

Early one morning, I sent off my whaleboat with Marama in charge to proceed round the south
end of Upolu, and meet Marchmont and me at a village on the lee side of the island named Siumu,
which is about eighteen miles distant from, and almost opposite to Apia, across the range that
traverses the island. An hour or so later Marchmont and I set out, accompanied by two boys
to carry our game bags, provisions, etc. Each of them wore suspended from his neck a large
white cowrie shell--the Samoan badge of neutrality--for we had to pass first through King Malietoa's
lines, and then through those of the besieging rebel forces.

It was a lovely day, and in half an hour we were in the delightful gloom of the sweet-smelling
mountain forest. In passing through King Malietoa's trenches, the local chief of Apia, Se'u
Manu, who was in command, requested me to stay and drink kava with him. Politeness required
consent, and we were delayed an hour; this made the Man Who Knew Everything very cross and
rather rude, and the stalwart chief (afterwards to become famous for his magnanimous conduct
to his German foes, when their squadron was destroyed in the great Calliope gale of March,
1889) looked at him with mild surprise, wondering at his discourtesy. However, his temper balanced
itself a little while after leaving the lines, when he brought down a brace of fine pigeons
with a right and left shot, and a few minutes later knocked over a mountain cock with my Winchester.
It was a very clever shot--for the wild cock of Samoa, the descendant of the domestic rooster,
is a hard bird to shoot even with a shot gun--and my friend was much elated. He really was
a first-class shot with either gun or rifle, though he had had but little experience with the
latter.

A few miles farther brought us to the little mountain village of Tagiamamanono. It was occupied
by the rebel troops from the Island of Savai'i. Their chiefs were very courteous, and, of course,
we were asked to "stay and rest and drink kava". To refuse would have been looked upon as boorish
and insulting, so I cheerfully acquiesced, and Marchmont and I were escorted to a large house,
where I formally presented him to our hosts as a traveller from "Peretania," whom I was "showing
around Samoa". Any man of fine physique attracts the Samoans, and a number of pretty girls
who were preparing the kava cast many admiring glances at my friend, and commented audibly
on his good looks.

Presently, as we were all smoking and exchanging compliments in the high-flown, stilted Samoan
style, there entered the house a strapping young warrior, carrying a wickerwork cage, in which
were two of the rare and famous Manu Mea (red-bird) of Samoa--the Didunculus or tooth-billed
pigeon. These were the property of the young chief commanding the rebel troops, and had simply
been brought into the house as a mark of respect and attention to Marchmont and me. Money cannot
always buy these birds, and the rebel chief looked upon them as mascottes. No one but himself,
or the young man who was their custodian, dared touch them, for a Samoan chief's property--like
his person--is sacred and inviolate from touch except by persons of higher rank than himself.
I hurriedly and quietly explained this to Marchmont.

"Bosh! Look here! You tell him that I want to buy those birds, and will give him a sovereign
each for them."

"I shall do no such thing. I know what I am talking about, and you don't. Fifty sovereigns
would not buy those birds--so don't say anything more on the subject. If you do, you will give
offence--and these Samoans are very touchy."

"Bah--that's all bosh, my dear fellow. Any way, I'll give five pounds for the pair," and to
my horror, and before I could stay him, he took out five sovereigns, and "skidded" them along
the matted floor towards the chief, a particularly irascible young man named Asi (Sandalwood).

"There, my friend, are five good English sovereigns for your birds. I suppose I can trust you
to send them to the English Consul at Apia for me. Eh?"

There was a dead silence. Asi spoke English perfectly, but hitherto, out of politeness, had
only addressed me in Samoan. His eyes flashed with quick anger at Marchmont, then he looked
at me reproachfully, made a sign to the custodian of the birds, and rising proudly to his feet,
said to me in Samoan:--

"I will drink kava with you alone, friend. Will you come to my own house," and he motioned
me to precede him. Never before had I seen a naturally passionate man exhibit such a sense
of dignity and self-restraint under what was, to him, a stupid insult.

I turned to Marchmont: "Look what you have done, confound you for an ass! If you are beginning
this way in Samoa you will get yourself into no end of trouble. Have you no sense?"

"I have sense enough to see that you are making a lot of fuss over nothing. Tell the beastly
savage that he can keep his wretched birds. I would only have wrung their necks and had them
cooked."

The young warrior who held the cage, set it down, and striding up beside the Man Who Knew Everything
dealt him an open-handed back-hand blow on the side of the head--a favourite trick of Samoan
wrestlers and fighters--and Marchmont went down upon the matted floor with a smash. I thought
he was killed--he lay so motionless--and in an instant there flashed across my memory a story
told to me by a medical missionary in Samoa, of how one of these terrific back-handed "smacks"
dealt by a native had broken a man's neck.

However, in a few minutes, Marchmont recovered, and rose to his feet, spoiling for a fight
The natives regarded him with a sullen but assumed indifference, and drew back, looking at
me inquiringly. The matter might have ended seriously, but for two things--Marchmont was at
heart a gentleman, and in response to my urgent request to him to apologise for the gross affront
he had put upon our host--did so frankly by first extending his hand to the man who had knocked
him down. And then, as he never did things by halves, he came with me to Asi and said, as he
shook hands with him:--

"By Jove, Mr. Asi, that man of yours could knock down a bullock. I never had such a thundering
smack in my life."

The chief smiled, then said gravely, in English, that he was sorry that such an unpleasant
incident had occurred. Then, after--with its many attendant ceremonies--we had drunk our bowls
of kava, and were smoking and chatting, Asi asked Marchmont to let him examine his gun and
rifle (Marchmont had a Soper rifle and one of Manton's best make of guns; I had my Winchester
and a fairly good gun). The moment Asi saw the Soper rifle his eyes lit up, and he produced
another from one of the house beams overhead, and said regretfully that he had no cartridges
left, and was using a Snider instead. Marchmont promptly offered to give him fifty.

"You must not do that," I said, "it will get us into serious trouble. Asi"--and I turned to
the chief--"will understand why we must not give him cartridges to be used for warfare. It
would be a great breach of faith for us to do so--would it not?"

Keenly anxious as he was to obtain possession of the ammunition, the chief, with a sigh of
regret, acquiesced, but Marchmont sulked, and for quite two hours after we had left the rebel
village did not exchange a word with me.

After getting over the range, and whilst we were descending the slope to the southern littoral,
some mongrel curs that belonged to our carriers, and had gone on ahead of us, put up a wild
sow with seven suckers, and at once started off in pursuit. The old, razor-backed sow doubled
and came flying past us, with her nimble-footed and striped progeny following. Marchmont and
I both fired simultaneously--at the sow. I missed her, but my charge of No 3 shot tumbled over
one of the piglets, which was at her heels, and Marchmont's Soper bullet took her in the belly,
and passed clean through her. But although she went down for a few moments she was up again
like a Jack-in-the-box, and with an angry squeal scurried along the thick carpet of dead leaves,
and then darted into the buttressed recesses of a great masa'oi (cedar) tree, which was evidently
her home, followed by two or three game mongrels.

Dropping his rifle, Marchmont ran to the trees, seized the nearest cur by the tail, and slung
it away down the side of the slope, then he kicked the others out of his way, and kneeling
down peered into the dark recess formed by two of the buttresses.

"Come out of that," I shouted, "you'll get bitten if you go near her. What are you trying to
do? Get out, and give the dogs a chance to turn her out."

"Bosh! Mind your own business. I know what I'm about. She's lying inside, as dead as a brickbat
I'll have her out in a jiffy," and then his head and shoulders disappeared--then came a wild,
blood-curdling yell of rage and pain, and the Man Who Knew Everything backed out with the infuriated
sow's teeth deeply imbedded into both sides of his right hand; his left gripped her by the
loose and pendulous skin of her throat. One of the native boys darted to his aid, and with
one blow of his hatchet split open the animal's skull.

"Well, of all the born idiots----" I began, when I stopped, for I saw that Marchmont's face
was very pale, and that he was suffering excruciating pain. A pig bite is always dangerous
and that which he had sustained was a serious one. Fortunately, it was bleeding profusely,
and as quickly as possible we procured water, and thoroughly cleansed, and then bound up his hand.

As soon as we got to Siumu I hurried to the house of the one white trader, and was lucky in
getting a bottle of that good old-fashioned remedy--Friar's balsam. I poured it into a clean
basin, and Marchmont unhesitatingly put in his hand, and let it stay there. The agony was great,
and the language that poured from the patient was of an extremely lurid character. But he had
wonderful grit, and I had to laugh when he began abusing himself for being such an idiot. He
then allowed a native woman to cover the entire hand with a huge poultice, made of the beaten-up
pulp of wild oranges--a splendid antiseptic. But it was a week before he could use his hand
again, and his temper was something abominable. However, we managed to put in the time very
pleasantly by paying a round of visits to the villages along the coast, and were entertained
and feasted to our heart's content by the natives. Then followed some days' grand pig hunting
and pigeon shooting in the mountains, amidst some of the most lovely tropical scenery in the
world. Marchmont killed a grand old tusker, and presented the tusks to the local chief, who
in return gave him a very old kava bowl--a valuable article to Samoans. He was, as usual, incredulous
when I told him that it was worth £10, and that Theodor Weber, the German Consul General, who
was a collector, would be only too glad to get it at that price.

"What, for that thing?"

"Yes, for that thing. Quite apart from its size, its age makes it valuable. I daresay that
more than half a century has passed since the tree from which it was made was felled by stone
axes, and the bowl cut out from a solid piece." It was fifteen inches high, two feet in diameter,
and the four legs and exterior were black with age, whilst the interior, from constant use
of kava, was coated with a bright yellow enamel. The labour of cutting out such a vessel with
such implements--it being, legs and bowl, in one piece--must have taken long months. Then came
the filing down with strips of shark skin, which had first been softened, and then allowed
to dry and contract over pieces of wood, round and flat; then the final polishing with the
rough underside of wild fig-leaves, and then its final presentation, with such ceremony, to
the chief who had ordered it to be made.

I explained all this to Marchgiont, and he actually believed me and did not say "Bosh!"

"I thought that you made a fearfully long-winded oration on my behalf when the chief gave me
the thing," he remarked.

"I did. I can tell you, Marchmont, that I should have felt highly flattered if he had presented
it to me. He seems to have taken a violent fancy to you. But, for Heaven's sake, don't think
that, because he has been told that you are a rich man, he has any ulterior motive. And don't,
I beg of you, offer him money. He has a reason for showing his liking for you."

I knew what that reason was. Suisala, the chief of Siumu, had, from the very first, expressed
to me his admiration of Marchmont's stalwart, athletic figure, and his fair complexion, and
was anxious to confer on him a very great honour--that of exchanging names. Suisala was of
one of the oldest and most chiefly families in Samoa, and was proud of the fact that the French
navigator Bougainville had taken especial notice of his grandfather (who was also a Suisala)
and who had been presented with a fowling piece and ammunition by the French officer. As I
have before mentioned, physical strength and manliness always attract the Samoan mind, and
the chief of Siumu had, as I afterwards explained to March-mont, fallen a victim to his "fatal
beauty".

One morning, a few days after the presentation of the tanoa (kava-bowl) to the Man Who Knew
Everything, a schooner appeared outside the reef and hove-to, there being no harbour at Siumu.
She was an American vessel, and had come to buy copra from, and land goods for, the local trader.
There was a rather heavy sea running on the reef at the time, and the work of shipping the
copra and landing the stores proved so difficult and tedious that I lent my boat and crew to
help. Unfortunately Marama was laid up with influenza, so could not take charge of the boat;
I also was on the sick list, with a heavy cold. However, my crew were to be trusted, and they
made several trips during the morning. Marchmont, after lunch, wanted to board the schooner,
and also offered to take charge of the boat and crew for the rest of the day. Knowing that
he was not used to surf work, I declined his offer, but told him he could go off on board if
he did not mind a wetting. He was quite nettled, and angrily asked me if I thought he could
not take a whaleboat through a bit of surf as well as either Marama or myself. I replied frankly
that I did not.

He snorted with contempt "Bosh. I've taken boats through surf five times as bad as it is now--a
tinker could manage a boat in the little sea that is running now. You fellows are all alike--you
think that you and your natives know everything."

"Oh, then, do as you like," I replied angrily, "but if you smash that boat it means a loss
of £50, and----"

"Hang your £50! If I hurt your boat, I'll pay for the damage. But don't begin to preach at me."

With great misgivings, I saw the boat start off, manned by eight men, using native paddles,
instead of oars, as was customary in surf work. Marchmont, certainly, by good luck, managed
to get her over the reef, for I could see that he was quite unused to handling a steer oar.
However, my native crew, by watching the sea and taking no heed of the steersman, shot the
boat over the reef into deep water beyond. But in getting alongside the schooner he nearly
swamped, and I was told began abusing my crew for a set of blockheads. This, of course, made
them sulky--to be abused for incompetence by an incompetent stranger, was hard to bear, especially
as the men, like all the natives of their islands (Rotumah and Niue), were splendid fellows
at boat work.

However, the boat at last cast off, and headed for the shore, and then I saw something that
filled me with wrath. As the lug sail was being hoisted, March-mont drew in his steer-oar,
and shipped the rudder, and in another minute the boat was bounding over the rolling seas at
a great rate towards the white breakers on the reef, but steering so wildly that I foresaw
disaster. The crew, in vain, urged Marchmont to ship the steer-oar again, but he told them
to mind their own business, and sat there, calm and strong, in his mighty conceit.

On came the boat, and we on shore watched her as she rose stern up to a big comber, then down
she sank from view into the trough, broached to, and the next roller fell upon and smothered
her, and rolled her over and over into the wild boil of surf on the reef.

The Man Who Knew Everything came off badly, and was brought on shore full of salt water, and
unconscious. He had been dashed against the jagged coral, and from his left thigh down to his
foot had been terribly lacerated; then as the crew swam to his assistance--for his clothing
had caught in the coral, and he was under water and drowning--and brought him to the surface,
the despised steer-oar (perhaps out of revenge) came hurtling along on a swirling sea, and
the haft of it struck him a fearful blow on the head, nearly fracturing his skull.

Fearing his injuries would prove fatal, I sent a canoe off to the schooner with a message to
the captain to come on shore, but the vessel, having finished her business, was off under full
sail, and did not see the canoe. Then the trader and I did our best for the poor fellow, who,
as soon as he regained consciousness, began to suffer agonies from the poison of the wounds
inflicted by the coral. We sent a runner to Apia for a doctor, and early next morning one arrived.

Marchmont was quite a month recovering, and when he was fully convalescent, he kept his opinions
to himself, and I think that the lesson he had received did him good. He afterwards told me
that he determined to sail the boat in with a rudder purely to annoy me, and was sorry for it.

When he was able to get about again as usual, the devil of restlessness again took possession
of him and he was soon in trouble again--through the bursting of a gun. I was away from Apia
at the time--at the little island of Manono, buying yams for the ship which was getting ready
for sea again--when I received a letter from a friend giving me the Apia gossip, and was not
surprised that Marchmont figured therein.

"Your friend Marchmont," so ran the letter, "is around, as usual, and in great form, though
he had a narrow squeak of having his head blown off last week through his gun bursting while
out pigeon-shooting up by Lano-to lake. It seems that it was raining at the time, and the track
down the mountain to the lake was very slippery. He had Johnny Coe the half-caste, and two
Samoans with him. Was carrying his gun under his arm and going down the track in his usual
careless, cock-a-hoopy style when he tripped over a root of a tree and went down, flat on his
face, into the red slippery soil. He picked himself up again quick enough, and began swearing
at the top of his voice, when a lot of ducks rose from the lake and came dead on towards him.
Without waiting to see if his gun was all right, although it was covered with mud, he pulled
the trigger of his right barrel, and it burst; one of the fragments gave him a nasty jagged
wound on the chin and the Samoan buck got a lot of small splinters in his face. After the idiot
had pulled himself together he examined his gun and found that the left barrel was plugged
up with hard red earth. No doubt the other one had also been choked up, for Johnny Coe said
that when he fell the muzzle of the gun was rammed some inches into the ground."

When I returned to Apia with a cutter load of yams, I called on Marchmont and found him his
old self. He casually mentioned his mishap and cursed the greasy mountain track as the cause.
At the same time he told me that he was beginning to like the country and that the natives
were "not a bad lot of fellows--if you know how to take 'em".

Then came his final exploit.

There is, in the waters of the Pacific Isles, a species of the trevalli, or rudder fish, which
attains an enormous size and weight. It is a good eating fish, like all the trevalli tribe,
and much thought of by both Europeans and natives, for, being an exceedingly wary fish, it
is not often caught, at least in Samoa. In the Live Islands, where it is more common, it is
called La'heu and in Fiji Sanka. One evening Lama, one of the Coe half-caste boys, and I succeeded
in hooking and capturing one of these fish, weighing a little over 100 lb. In the morning the
Man Who Knew Everything came to look at it, was much interested, and said he would have a try
for one himself after lunch.

"No use trying in clear daylight," I said; "after dusk, at night (if not moonlight), or before
daybreak is the time."

"Bosh!" was his acidulous comment "I've caught the same fish in New Zealand in broad daylight."
I shook my head, knowing that he was wrong. He became angry, and remarked that he had found
that all white men who had lived in foreign countries for a few years accepted the rubbishy
dictum of natives regarding sporting matters of any kind as infallible. Refusing to show me
the tackle he intended using, at two o'clock he hired a native canoe, and paddled off alone
into Apia Harbour. Then he began to fish for La'heu, using a mullet as bait. In five minutes
he was fast to a good-sized and lusty shark, which promptly upset the canoe, went off with
the line and left him to swim. The officer of the deck of the French gunboat Vaudreuil, then
lying in the port, sent a boat and picked him up. This annoyed him greatly, as he wanted, like
an idiot, to swim on shore--a thing that a native would not always care to do in a shark-infested
place like Apia Harbour, especially during the rainy season (as it then was), when the dreaded
tanifa sharks come into all bays or ports into which rivers or streams debouch.

That evening, however, Marchmont condescended to look at the tackle I used for La'heu, said
it was clumsy, and only fit for sharks, but, on the whole, there were "some good ideas" about
it; also that he would have another try that night. I suggested that either one of the Coe
lads or Lama should go with him, to which he said "Bosh!" Then, after sunset, I sent some of
my boat's-crew to catch flying-fish for bait. They brought a couple of dozen, and I told Marchmont
that he should bait with a whole flying-fish, make his line ready for casting, and then throw
over some "burley"--half a dozen flying-fish chopped into small pieces. He would not show me
the tackle he intended using, so I was quite in the dark as to what manner of gear it was.
But I ascertained later on that it was good and strong enough to hold any deep sea fish, and
the hook was of the right sort--a six-inch flatted, with curved shank, and swivel mounted on
to three feet of fine twisted steel seizing wire. My obstinate friend had a keen eye, even
when he was most disparaging in his remarks, and had copied my La'heu tackle most successfully,
although he had "bosh-ed" it when I first showed it to him.

Refusing to let any one accompany him, although the local pilot candidly informed him that
he was a dunderhead to go fishing alone at night in Apia Harbour, Marchmont started off about
2 A.M. in an ordinary native canoe, meant to hold not more than three persons when in smooth
water. It was a calm night, but rainy, and the crew of the French gunboat noticed him fishing
near the ship about 2.30. A little while after, the officer of the watch saw a heavy rain squall
coming down from the mountain gorges, and good-naturedly called out to the fisherman to either
come alongside or paddle ashore, to avoid being swamped. The clever man replied in French,
somewhat ungraciously, that he could quite well look after himself. A little after 3 A.M. the
squall ceased, and as neither Marchmont nor the canoe was visible, the French sailors concluded
that he had taken their officer's advice and gone on shore.

About seven o'clock in the morning, as I was bathing in the little river that runs into Apia
Harbour, a native servant girl of the local resident medical missionary came to the bank and
called to me, and told me a startling story. My obstinate friend had been picked up at sea,
four miles from Apia Harbour, by a taumualua (native-built whaleboat). He was in a state of
exhaustion and collapse, and when brought into Apia was more dead than alive, and the doctor
was quickly summoned I at once went to see him, but was not admitted to his room, and for three
days he had to lie up, suffering from shock--and, I trust, a feeling of humility for being
such an obstinate blockhead.

His story was simple enough: During the heavy rain squall his bait was taken by some large
and powerful fish (he maintained that it was a La'heu, though most probably it was a shark),
and thirty or forty yards of line flew out before he could get the pull of it. When he did,
he foolishly made the loose part fast to the canoe seat amidships, and the canoe promptly capsized,
and the fore end of the outrigger unshipped. Clinging to the side of the frail craft, he shouted
to the gunboat for help, but no one heard in the noise of the wind and heavy rain, and in ten
minutes he found himself in the passage between the reefs, and rapidly being towed out to sea.
He tried to sever the line by biting it through (he had lost his knife), but only succeeded
in losing a tooth. Then, as the canoe was being dragged through the water broadside on, a heavy
sea submerged her and the line parted, the shark or whatever it was going off. Never losing
his pluck, he tried in the darkness to secure the loose end of the outrigger, but failed, owing
to the heavy, lumpy seas. Then for two anxious, miserable hours he clung to the canoe, expecting
every moment to find himself minus his legs by the jaws of a shark, and when sighted and picked
up by the native boat he was barely conscious.

He learnt a lesson that did him good. He never again went out alone in a canoe at night, and
for many days after his recovery he never uttered the word "Bosh!"

CHAPTER XXIX ~ THE PATTERING OF THE MULLET

It is a night of myriad stars, shining from a dome of deepest blue. The lofty, white-barked
swamp gums stand silent and ghost-like on the river's bank, and the river itself is almost
as silent as it flows to meet the roaring surf on the bar of the rock-bound coast fifteen miles
away, where when the south-east wind blows lustily by day and dies away at night the long billows
of the blue Pacific roll on unceasingly.

Overhead, far up in the topmost boughs of one of the giant gums some opossums squeal angrily
at an intruding native bear, which, like themselves, has climbed to feed upon the young and
tender eucalyptus leaves. Below, a prowling dingo steals slowly over the thick carpet of leaves,
then sitting on his haunches gazes at the prone figures of two men stretched out upon their
blankets at the foot of the great tree. His green, hungry eyes have discerned a pair of saddle-bags
and his keen nostrils tell him that therein are salt beef and damper. He sinks gently down
upon the yielding leaves and for a minute watches the motionless forms; then he rises and creeps,
creeps along. A horse bell tinkles from beyond the scrub and in an instant the wild dog lies
flat again. Did he not see one of the men move? No, all is quiet, and once more he creeps forward.
Then from beneath the tree there comes a flash and a report and a bullet flies and the night
prowler leaps in the air with a snarling yelp and falls writhing in his death agony, as from
the sand flats in the river arises the clamour of startled wild fowl and the rush and whirr
of a thousand wings. Then silence again, save for the long-drawn wail of a curlew.

One of the men rises, kicks together the dying camp fire and throws on a handful of sticks
and leaves. It blazes up and a long spear of light shoots waveringly across the smooth current
of the river.

"Get him, Harry?" sleepily asks his companion as he sits up and feels for his pipe.

"Yes--couldn't miss him. He's lying there. Great Scott! Didn't he jump."

"Poor beggar--smelt the tucker, I suppose. Well, better a dead dog than a torn saddle-bag.
Hear the horses?"

"Yes, they're all right--feeding outside the timber belt How's the time, Ted?"

"Three o'clock. What a deuce of a row those duck and plover kicked up when you fired! We ought
to get a shot or two at them when daylight comes."

"Harry," a big, bearded fellow of six feet, nodded as he lit his pipe.

"Yes, we ought to get all we want up along the blind creeks, and we'll have to shift camp soon.
It's going to rain before daybreak, and we might as well stay here over to-morrow and give
the horses a spell."

"It's clouding over a bit, but I don't think it means rain."

"I do. Listen," and he held up his hand towards the river.

His companion listened, and a low and curious sound--like rain and yet not like rain--a gentle
and incessant pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, pit-a-pat, then a break for a few seconds, then again,
sometimes sounding loud and near, at others faintly and far away.

"Sounds like a thousand people knockin' their finger nails on tables. Why, it must be rainin'
somewhere close to on the river."

"No, it's the pattering of mullet, heading up the river--thousands, tens of thousands, aye
hundreds of thousands. It is a sure sign of heavy rain. We'll see them presently when they
come abreast of us. That queer lip, lap, lip, lap you hear is made by their tails. They sail
along with heads well up out of the water--the blacks tell me that they smell the coming rain--then
swim on an even keel for perhaps twenty yards or so, and the upper lobe of their tails keeps
a constant flapping on the water. You know how clearly you can hear the flip of a single fish's
tail in a pond on a quiet night? Well, to-night you'll hear the sound of fifty thousand. Once,
when I was prospecting in the Shoalhaven River district I camped with some net fishermen near
the Heads. It was a calm, quiet night like this, and something awakened me It sounded like
heavy rain falling on big leaves. 'Is it raining, mate?' I said to one of the fishermen. 'No,'
he replied, 'but there's a heavy thunderstorm gathering; and that noise you hear is mullet
coming up from the Heads, three miles away.' That was the first time I ever saw fish packed
so closely together--it was a wonderful sight, and when they began to pass us they stretched
in a solid line almost across the river and the noise they made was deafening. But we must
hurry up, lad, shift our traps a bit back into the scrub and up with the tent. Then we'll come
back and have a look at the fish, and get some for breakfast."

The two hardy prospectors (for such they were) were old and experienced bushmen, and soon had
their tent up, and their saddles, blankets and guns and provisions under its shelter, just
as the first low muttering of thunder hushed the squealing opossums overhead into silence.
But, as it died away, the noise of the myriad mullet sounded nearer and nearer as they swam
steadily onward up the river.

Ten minutes passed, and then a heavy thunder-clap shook the mighty trees and echoed and re-echoed
among the spurs and gullies of the coastal range twenty miles away; another and another, and
from the now leaden sky the rain fell in torrents and continued to pour unceasingly for an
hour. Inside the tent the men sat and smoked and waited Then the downfall ceased with a "snap,"
the sky cleared as if by magic, revealing the stars now paling before the coming dawn, and
the cries of birds resounded through the dripping bush.

Picking up a prospecting dish the elder man told his "mate" that it was time to start. Louder
than ever now sounded the noise made by the densely packed masses of fish, and as the rays
of the rising sun, aided by a gentle air, dispelled the river mist, the younger man gave a
gasp of astonishment when they reached the bank and he looked down--from shore to shore the
water was agitated and churned into foam showing a broad sheet of flapping fins and tails and
silvery scales. So close were the fish to the bank and so overcrowded that hundreds stranded
upon the sand. 

The surf, as if swift, came and ceased for second. That limit of the reined islands of front there
is curled of fiddlestick like the canoe. A manoeuvre above the paddle see the boy, quake and
prancing in few fellow earlier surprised in. "arret', arret', doucement!"


