Those who had come with the Inca, went to their houses to fetch presents to show reverence
and do homage to the new Inca. He remained with his guards only, until they returned with presents,
doing homage and adoring. The rest of the people did the same, and sacrifices were offered.
[It is to be noted that only those of Cuzco did this, and if any others were present who did
so, they must have been forced or frightened by the armed men and the proclamation.]

This having been done, they approached the Inca and said, "O Sovereign Inca! O Father! now
take rest." At these words Tupac Inca showed much sadness and covered his head with his mantle,
which they call llacolla, a square cloak. He next went, with all his company, to the place
where the body of his father was laid, and there he put on mourning. All things were then arranged
for the obsequies, and Tupac Inca Yupanqui did everything that his father had ordered at the
point of death, touching the treatment of his body and other things.

XLIX.

TUPAC INCA YUPANQUI CONQUERS THE PROVINCE OF THE ANTIS.

Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui being dead, and Tupac Inca ruling alone, he caused all the Sinchis
and principal men of the conquered provinces to be summoned. Those came who feared the fury
of the Inca, and with them the Indians of the province of Anti-suyu, who are the dwellers in
the forests to the eastward of Cuzco, who had been conquered in the time of Pachacuti his father.

Tupac Inca ordered them all to do homage, adore, and offer sacrifices. The Antis were ordered
to bring from their country several loads of lances of palm wood for the service of the House
of the Sun. The Antis, who did not serve voluntarily, looked upon this demand as a mark of
servitude. They fled from Cuzco, returned to their country, and raised the land of the Antis
in the name of freedom.

Tupac Inca was indignant, and raised a powerful army which he divided into three parts. He
led the first in person, entering the Anti-suyu by Ahua-tona. The second was entrusted to a
captain named Uturuncu Achachi, who entered Anti-suyu by a town they call Amaru. The third,
under a captain named Chalco Yupanqui, advanced by way of Pilcopata. All these routes were
near each other, and the three divisions formed a junction three leagues within the forest,
at a place called Opatari, whence they commenced operations against the settlements of the
Antis. The inhabitants of this region were Antis, called Opataris, and were the first to be
conquered. Chalco Yupanqui carried an image of the Sun.

The forests were very dense and full of evil places; so that they could not force their way
through, nor did they know what direction to take in order to reach the settlements of the
natives, which were well concealed in the thick vegetation. To find them the explorers climbed
up the highest trees, and pointed out the places where they could see smoke rising. So they
worked away at road making through the undergrowth until they lost that sign of inhabitants
and found another. In this way the Inca made a road where it seemed impossible to make one.

The Sinchi of the greater part of these provinces of the Antis was Condin Savana, of whom they
say that he was a great wizard and enchanter, and they had the belief, and even now they affirm
that he could turn himself into different shapes.

Tupac Inca and his captains penetrated into this region of the Antis, which consists of the
most terrible and fearful forests, with many rivers, where they endured immense toil, and the
people who came from Peru suffered from the change of climate, for Peru is cold and dry, while
the forests of Anti-suyu are warm and humid. The soldiers of Tupac Inca became sick, and many
died. Tupac Inca himself, with a third of his men who came with him to conquer, were lost in
the forests, and wandered for a long time, without knowing whether to go in one direction or
another until he fell in with Uturuncu Achachi who put him on the route.

On this occasion Tupac Inca and his captains conquered four great tribes. The first was that
of the Indians called Opataris. The next was the Mano-suyu. The third tribe was called Mañaris
or Yanasimis, which means those of the black mouth: and the province of Rio, and the province
of the Chunchos. They went over much ground in descending the river Tono, and penetrated as
far as the Chiponauas. The Inca sent another great captain, named Apu Ccuri-machi, by the route
which they now call of Camata. This route was in the direction of the rising of the sun, and
he advanced until he came to the river of which reports have but now been received, called
Paytiti, where he set up the frontier pillars of Inca Tupac. During the campaign against these
nations, Tupac Inca took prisoners the following Sinchis: Vinchincayua, Cantahuancuru, Nutan-huari[106].

[Note 106: This expedition of Tupac Inca Yupanqui into the montaña of Paucartambo, and down
the River Tono is important. Garcilasso de la Vega describes it in chapters xiii., xiv., xv.
and xvi. of Book vii. He says that five rivers unite to form the great Amaru-mayu or Serpent
River, which he was inclined to think was a tributary of the Rio de la Plata. He describes
fierce battles with the Chunchos, who were reduced to obedience. After descending the River
Tono, Garcilasso says that the Incas eventually reached the country of the Musus (Moxos) and
opened friendly relations with them. Many Incas settled in the country of the Musus. Garcilasso
then gives some account of Spanish expeditions into the montaña, led by Diego Aleman, Gomez
de Tordoya, and Juan Alvarez Maldonado.

The account in the text agrees, in the main, with that of Garcilasso de la Vega. Sarmiento
gives the names of four Indian tribes who were encountered, besides the Chunchos.]

During the campaign an Indian of the Collas, named Coaquiri, fled from his company, reached
the Collao, and spread the report that Tupac Inca was dead. He said that there was no longer
an Inca, that they should all rise and that he would be their leader. Presently he took the
name of Pachacuti, the Collas rose, and chose him as their captain. This news reached Tupac
Inca in Anti-suyu where he was in the career of conquest. He resolved to march against the
Collas and punish them. He left the forests, leaving Uturuncu Achachi to complete the conquest,
with orders to return into Peru when that service was completed, but not to enter Cuzco triumphing
until the Inca should come.

L.

TUPAC INCA YUPANQUI GOES TO SUBDUE AND PACIFY THE COLLAS.

As the Collas were one of those nations which most desired their freedom, they entered upon
attempts to obtain it whenever a chance offered, as has already been explained. Tupac Inca
Yupanqui resolved to crush them once for all. Having returned from the Antis, he increased
his army and nominated as captains Larico, the son of his cousin Ccapac Yupanqui, his brother
Chachi, Cunti Yupanqui, and Quihual Tupac. With this army he advanced to the Collao. The Collas
had constructed four strong places at Llallaua, Asillo, Arapa, and Pucara. The Inca captured
the chiefs and the leader of all, who was Chuca-chucay Pachacuti Coaquiri, he who, as we have
said, fled from Anti-suyu. Afterwards these were the drummers[107] of Inca Tupac. Finally,
owing to the great diligence of Inca Tupac, although the war occupied some years, the Incas
conquered and subdued all [perpetrating great cruelties on them].

