"I know--I know! I'd give a finger if it had not to be!" He stood a moment, his flaxen head
bent, lost in troubled thought. Quite suddenly he turned upon Nicanor, who, lynx-eyed, watched.
"See then; I owe fealty to my lord, but thou art my friend, and this thing I cannot do. We
have starved together and fought together, thou and I! The gods judge me, but thou art my friend!
I have money--not much, but more than nothing. Take thou it--I'll leave the way open--and escape.
Or, if thou wilt, overpower me on the road to Gobannium--there'll be but two men with me, and
I'll see to them. Save thyself, and leave the rest to me."

Nicanor laid his left hand on Wardo's shoulder. Their eyes were on a level; tall men they were,
both, one dark, lean, steel-muscled as a great cat; the other fair, more fully fleshed, massive
in bulk as a tawny bull.

"Leave thee to face double punishment, mine as a runaway slave, and thine as his abettor?"
said Nicanor, and laughed softly. "Nay, thou art my friend, and the gods judge me if I put
thee in this plight. I did not know I had such a friend in the world. Many things have I learned
in this time of darkness, and this have I also found." 

It was "a case of ship-money." Hampden was defeated. The ablest to England showed that the tax was contrary
to Magna Charta, of the great laws of the realm, to the Petition to Right
in the pattern of the kingdom

.

"By the soul of my mother, thou shalt not!" said Nicanor. "When I escape, it shall be when
thou canst not be brought to task for it. But if thou wouldst prove true friend, leave the
way open for two hours. More will not help me now."

"So be it," said Wardo. "Here is the key. When we go, let us lock the door behind us. Return
here, then, and await me within. But, Nicanor, if thou art not here, I shall make no search."

"I shall be here," said Nicanor, briefly.

Wardo took his torch; they left the cell. Nicanor locked the door, thrust the key into his
belt, and without a word started up the passage into the darkness. Two hours speed swiftly
when they hold life and death and all that lies between.

VI

Nicanor gained the passage behind the storerooms, at the head of which the cresset flared,
and reached the court, meeting no one. The cool air flooded him, and he raised his head and
breathed it deeply. For eight long months his lips had panted for it. As he had foreseen, the
court was deserted; all the household slaves were busy in this way and that about the feast.
He cast a calculating glance upward at the crescent moon, struggling through banking clouds.

"Till she touches the top of the stunted lime," he muttered, and crossed the court with his
long noiseless stride.

A distant strain of music wandered out across the night; and at all it whispered of that which
was not for him he set his teeth with a smothered groan. Past silent courts he went, avoiding
the teeming kitchens, and through narrow passages and empty rooms. A slave boy with a trayful
of broken meats passed him where he hung concealed in the deep shadow of one court. He made
a motion forward, his hungry eyes gleaming; drew back in silence and let the boy pass on. It
was many hours since he had tasted food, but he dared not risk betrayal.

So he gained a certain small doorway in one of the lesser courts, a deep recess, merely, in
the wall, which led to no room. Just inside it steep steps showed in the moonlight, leading
upward. Nicanor listened a moment to make certain that all was still, and, as one sure of himself
and what he meant to do, ran up them,--past where a landing opened on the stairs, with glimpses
of a pillared gallery beyond; and still up, until the flight ended in a long and bare passage.
Here it was very dark, with only the moonlight coming through narrow windows of thick and muddy
glass. Nicanor looked about him as one who would know if all was as he had left it last. A
ladder lay upon the floor beneath the square of an opening in the roof. This he leaned against
the wall, mounted it, and slid back the hatch, which ran in wooden grooves. The ladder creaked
beneath him as he swung his long body forward and gripped the edges of the opening. Until he
had made sure of his hold he did not leave the ladder; then swung clear, shifting his hands
one by one into better position, and raised himself slowly, by sheer practised strength of
wrist and arm, until his head and shoulders rose above the opening. With quick effort, then,
he flung himself forward upon the roof, writhed himself through, and stood erect.

Around him were the roofs of the separate apartments of the villa, silvered gray where moonlight
touched them. Flat and sloping and towered were these, and broken by the intervals of the courts,
where was massed the heavy blackness of foliage. The night air swept cool around him; above
him was the high vault of heaven, cloudless now, where a young moon rode in the loneliness
of space. To his left as he stood was the squat dome of the Hall of Columns, with light showing
through the series of narrow windows which encircled it. And these windows were barely four
feet above the level of the roof from which the dome sprang.

Nicanor started across the tiles, black against the moonlight, clawing his way along steep
and treacherous slopes and gliding along the leads, sure-footed as a cat, toward the nearest
window in the dome which would look down into the hall below. This he gained in safety, and
found that it had been left half open, for ventilation. He leaned over the ledge, gazing downward;
and a ripple of music from hidden players rose to him above a humming undercurrent of sound.

Below him, the great hall was a riot of color. On its hundred columns of polished marble, veined
in green and rose, light played in sliding gleams from great lamps of wrought bronze hung by
chains around the dome and between the pillars, each with many lights floating in cups of perfumed
oil. The floors, of white marble, were overlaid with silken rugs of glowing colors, with silver
matting and with tawny skins of beasts. The walls were wide panels of mosaics set in stucco,
vivid with red and blue, green and azure, picturing scenes of hunting and carousal. Perfumes
burned in silver jars set on pedestals of black marble at intervals along the walls, sending
forth faint spirals of smoke on the heated air. The long table, lined on either side with men
and women, was directly beneath the dome. Looking down upon it Nicanor saw only a confusion
of gold and silver dishes, with the ruby glow of Samian plates and cups, gleaming among strewn
leaves and blossoms. The garments of the guests were as a fringe of color about the table's
edge; purple, saffron, and gold, crimson, green, and white.

