Walter was very much astonished at the way his father had taken his explanation, and for a
moment was sorry that he had said so much at one time; then he smiled as a happy thought struck
him. If his father intended to deliver a thorough sermon on creation, he would be compelled
to carefully study Genesis, and Walter believed enough had been said to make his father doubt
the second narrative. He felt like saying, "I don't believe you will ever preach that sermon,"
but instead, he said, "Alright, father, I shall put considerable study on the Bible, as you
wish and I am sorry if my explanation has offended you, yet I explained it just as it seemed
to me."

"Never mind, Walter," said his mother, "we cannot all of us be as well versed on the Bible
as your father, who has spent most of his life in the study of it."

"Would you suggest, father, that I continue to study Genesis from the place we left off?"

"Yes son," said the pastor more kindly, "start from where we left off this evening, and it
might be well for you to review what we have passed over, so you will be able to fully understand
my sermon when I deliver it."

After a few more commonplace remarks, Walter bade his father and mother good night, and ascended
to his chamber, carrying his Bible with him.

As soon as Walter had left the room, the pastor turned to his wife and said, "I wonder what
can have taken possession of that boy, he has changed wonderfully. Whereas he was always speaking
of his sickness, and complaining of being weak, he now never refers to his trouble, nor does
he complain of being tired any more. And what is more wonderful, he does not walk and act as
if he was tired or weak; he also looks cheerful and his explanation was full of vim and courage,
even though it was nonsense."

"I think, James, it is the work of that last medicine. He has begun to notice that he is getting
better, and in his great enthusiasm he ascribes his healing to the goodness of God, and is
very desirous of giving thanks for his recovery."

"That may be it," said the pastor, "yet I don't see any reason for his talking such nonsense.
Some of his assertions are simply absurd; for instance, that assertion about his never having
been sick in reality, and that there is no evil; haven't we had the best physicians in the
country, and didn't they say he had hereditary consumption. That certainly ought to prove its
reality. Besides, he has been gradually growing weaker and weaker under our very eyes."

"That is all true, James, yet I do not think all he said was nonsense. It seemed to me that
when he was speaking he seemed to glow with a heavenly radiance, and while you thought he had
lost his mind, I supposed he was inspired from on high."

The pastor sat bolt upright in his chair, and looked at his wife. If this thing kept up much
longer he would be demented himself; what was the matter with his family? How could his wife
take the nonsense of a boy for inspiration?

"Now, James, don't look at me that way; it does not seem so very incredible to me that God
should have made everything good, and that the good alone is real, and that evil is unreal,
but that we make a reality of it simply by thinking it real. I think that is what Walter was
trying to make clear to us. To illustrate, if you should receive word this evening that your
brother was killed in a railroad disaster, you would certainly feel sorrowful, and you would
say you felt that way because your brother was killed. Now if in the morning your brother should
step in the house perfectly well, your sorrow would flee. This would prove that your sorrow
was not caused by the death of your brother, but simply because you believed him dead; so it
was the belief that caused the sorrow, and not the deed itself." "I can agree with you in regard
to your illustration, for it was the belief of my brother's death, and not his real death,
as he did not die, that made me sorrowful. But the two cases are not parallel; in the one,
nothing had happened, but in the other there is in reality a sick boy, and not simply the report
of a sick boy."

"Can you not see, James, that if God never made sickness, and He made all there was made, that
sickness could not be a reality? And we could not be sick in reality. Yet if we thought ourselves
sick and believed what we thought, this would make it seem true to us, though in fact, it was
not true. I believe it is just as Walter put it. If we believe a falsehood to be the truth,
this falsehood, then, seems like the truth to us. But no matter how often, or how many, believe
a lie to be the truth, it still in fact remains a lie."

"What you say about the lie, wife, is plain, but sickness is not a lie or a falsehood, it is
only too real."

"James, if sin, sickness, and death are real, God must have made them, for the Bible says God
made everything that was made and pronounced it all very good. It might be possible to stretch
the imagination so as to say that sickness, or even death, might be good under certain conditions;
but no Christian would agree with you that sin was good. And if we would agree that sickness
and death were made by God and were good, then Jesus Christ destroyed the works of God, and
at the same time destroyed something that was good."

"Oh, James, the more I think of Walter's explanation, the more reasonable it seems, and I cannot
get the idea out of my mind that our boy was inspired when he made that explanation."

"Lillian, I will admit that never in my whole life have I been so confused on anything as I
am in regard to these two narratives of creation. If we admit that the first is the real and
was all that was made, whence came all this evil, sin, and sickness into the world, and how
did I acquire this material body, and where did all these other material things come from?
If we admit that the second creation is of God, then God, in a sense, would be responsible
for all the trials and tribulations of man, for God is all-powerful and could have made us
better, even to perfection. Now that I think of it, I don't believe the Bible mentions anywhere
that God made evil. It speaks of the Lord God cursing the ground, but it does not accuse Him
of making evil; and yet God should have made all. Can evil only be a lie, a dream, a delusion,
a mistake or misapprehension, as Walter called it? What a state for a minister to be in; why,
I believe I am questioning the truth of the Bible."

"No, James, I don't think you could properly call that questioning the Bible, you are simply
seeking the truth, and I know that when you get into a calmer frame of mind you will readily
find it; don't you think we had better retire for to-night? To-morrow you will have time to
look up this entire matter."

"I suppose we had, as I see no way to satisfy myself except by carefully studying the whole
book of Genesis, and I am very doubtful whether I will be able to find what I want even there,
for I have often noticed that when a man once begins to doubt the truth of the Bible, he usually
ends up as an unbeliever. God grant that this may not happen to me."

"O, I have no fear of that," said his wife; "you are too firm a believer in God to ever doubt
anything in the Bible."

"I hope so, wife, yet I must admit that I am beginning to doubt the genuineness of the second
narrative, and for the last fifteen years I have preached the gospel from the standpoint of
this second or dust creation. In fact, I could not preach otherwise, as it would be impossible
for me to make my congregation believe that they were wholly spiritual, and that they have
no material body, had I desired."

"Why, James, of course we have a material body, don't we have to feed, clothe, and take care
of it?"

"That is the way I always believed, but if Walter's idea is correct in regard to that mist,
or misapprehension, then the first chapter of Genesis is correct, and in that case we could
not possibly have a material body, but only think we have, and because we believe what we think,
it would seem so to us. Wife, I am half inclined to think this is the solution, but how can
I prove to others, or even myself, that my body is spiritual when it is so very material?"

"It is quite surprising to me, James, that you cannot readily explain this part of the Bible,
for you have done little else all your life but study the Bible. At any rate, let it rest for
to-night; you will, no doubt, get the right thought more readily after a good night's sleep."

The pastor rather reluctantly followed his wife out of the room and up stairs. He would have
preferred to solve this knotty problem before retiring. He lay awake a long time thinking deeply,
and the more he thought the more firmly he believed that Walter was right in his conclusions
that the first narrative was the true one. Then the thought came; if this is correct, it will
turn the whole world into confusion, for everybody believes in the dust man; in fact, every
clergyman I know of is preaching the gospel from this standpoint.

It was after midnight before he finally went to sleep.

Walter, also, lay awake some time, but he was not trying to solve the question of which was
the true narrative; he had fully satisfied himself in regard to this. What he was trying to
do was to think of some way to convince his father and mother in regard to it.

CHAPTER VIII

THE THIRD LESSON

Nearly two months had passed since the evening of the last Bible lesson. Walter was so interested
in studying the Bible and "Science and Health," that he did not notice the dreary winter days.
Besides, he was gaining very rapidly in strength and flesh to the great joy of his parents.
His mother had some time ago noticed that he did not take his medicine, and spoke to him about
it. He answered her in a very positive, but gentle tone, "No, mother, I am not taking any medicine
and never intend to take any more, for I am now depending entirely on God, and He is making
me well."

His mother had asked him when he had stopped taking it, and he said, "I determined never again
to take medicine the night I realized the unreality of sickness, as it would be very foolish
to take medicine to cure me of something which in reality did not exist." Both his father and
mother tried to persuade him to continue taking his medicine, as they believed his improvement
was due to this last kind he had been taking.

Walter knew better, so had said, "Please allow me to leave off taking it for a short time,
and if I do not continue to improve, I will start taking it again to please you."

It had been left that way, although his parents were averse to his stopping at the very time
he seemed to be gaining. They watched him closely, but he continued to improve so steadily
and rapidly, that taking medicine had not been mentioned to him again. His mother continued
taking hers, but showed no improvement.

Many times Walter asked his father when he would take up their Bible lessons again; but his
father never seemed ready. He noticed that his father always seemed to be in a very thoughtful
mood. The boy knew what was the cause of it, and several times had tried to engage his father
in conversation regarding creation or some other part of the Bible, as he desired to point
out the truth to him. But his father always dropped the subject as soon as possible, nor had
he preached his sermon on creation as he had promised.

The pastor daily studied his Bible and was taking copious notes as he read, but did not seem
to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. Many times he wondered at the little things Walter
would say about the Bible, and on several occasions he had made up his mind to ask him some
questions, but he disliked to let the boy know of his own inability to understand the Bible.
He wondered if his wife was right in regard to the boy's being inspired. How else could he
account for some of the things Walter said. On several occasions he had taken the trouble to
prove his assertions, and found to his surprise that the Bible easily substantiated what the
boy had said.

This was the state of affairs on a January afternoon when the pastor said to himself, "come
what will, I am going to continue those Bible lessons this evening. What Walter said brought
me into this darkness and confusion and it is possible he may say something that will show
me the light."

That evening at supper the pastor surprised his wife and son by saying, "If it is agreeable
to you both, we will continue our Bible lessons this evening."

They readily assented, and as soon as Mrs. Williams had finished her work, they repaired to
the library.

As soon as they were seated the pastor said, "Well, Walter, have you changed your mind in regard
to which of the two narratives regarding creation is the correct one?"

"No, father, I have not. I have put considerable more study on that subject since our last
lesson, and I am now fully satisfied and convinced that the view expressed in regard to the
first narrative being the true one is correct."

"Walter, I believe you are right. I have been studying and thinking all of these two months,
and have come to the same conclusion regarding creation. Yet in no way have I been able to
explain away all these material things and this material body."

"James, have you come to the conclusion that everything is spiritual?" asked his wife.

"Yes, Lillian, for there are only two conclusions to arrive at, either God is the creator spoken
of in the first narrative where everything was made by the Word, or spiritually, and is pronounced
very good, or else God is the creator spoken of in the second narrative and therefore He would
be the creator of all this evil, sickness, sin, and death, with all the other dire calamities
we are subjected to. And since I have thought and studied on this question, I cannot conceive
of our Heavenly Father being the cause of all our troubles, who are His children, any more
than I would bring such a visitation on my family. So of the two, I prefer believing that God
made everything good as described in the first narrative, as it is impossible to believe both,
for they are direct opposites. What bothers me is this material body and everything else that
is material."

"Father, I believe I can throw some light on that subject if you will allow me."

His father looked at him for a moment, undecided whether to ask him to explain or not, for
his last explanation had caused all his confusion, yet, as he thought of it, he now agreed
with that explanation. Maybe the boy was inspired and he was doing wrong in not hearing what
he had to say. Anyway, his getting well without the use of doctors or drugs was little short
of a miracle to him, so he decided to have him explain, and said, "I will hear what you have
to say on this subject, Walter, but be careful not to say anything ridiculous."

Walter smiled; he had learned a lesson the time he made his explanation regarding creation,
and he did not intend that his enthusiasm should cause him to say too much this time and thereby
make the same mistake he had made before. So he simply asked his father a question. "Did not
everybody think the earth was flat years ago?"

"Yes, Walter, but what has that to do with our material bodies?"

"Did everybody believe it, father?"

"Certainly, for they did not know different"

"Did their thinking so make it so?"

"Most assuredly not, as you well know, Walter, the earth was always round."

"And even though they believed this mistake regarding the earth, it did not change the earth
any, did it, father?" "No, but why these questions?"

"Only this, father, that this is just what we have been long doing regarding our bodies, thinking
that they were material and believing it, but our mistaken thought regarding our bodies has
not in reality changed them, any more than the thought that the earth was flat changed the
earth. It seemed flat to those who believed it flat, though the truth was that the earth was
round in reality. So with our bodies; they are material to us who believe them so, but in truth
or reality, they are spiritual."

"I can readily agree with you in regard to the earth, because we know that it always was round,
but we cannot prove that the body is spiritual."

"That is just the point, father. We can readily admit that the earth is round after it has
been proven so; still before this proof was furnished the people would not admit it, any more
than we will admit that our bodies are spiritual. Nevertheless the earth was round before it
was proven so, and so with the body being spiritual. The proof of its spirituality does not
change it any, as it will always remain as God made it, regardless of what man thinks or believes
about it, nevertheless, Jesus Christ on several occasions proved the body to be spiritual and
the proof that He done so is contained in the Bible, He also said 'Blessed are they who believe
and do not see.'"

"I know Jesus Christ said that, but that was about something entirely different. You could
hardly want me to believe something I could not see or prove, for you know, Walter, the old
saying is that seeing is believing."

Walter immediately thought of what "Science and Health" said on this subject, so he said, "Can
we always believe what we see?"

"Yes, I think so, son."

"Father, if you were to look out of this window to-morrow morning you would see in the distance
where the heaven and earth seemed to meet; would you believe they did?"

"Certainly not, for I know better."

"Still you say, seeing is believing." His father leaned back in his chair and regarded his
son critically; was the boy inspired? How else could he account for his intelligence? What
was he to hear next, should he ask any more questions? Yes, he would ask him something more
about this material body: "Walter is there anything in the Bible that you know of wherewith
to substantiate your claim of a spiritual body?"

"I think there is, father. Jesus Christ must have known that his body was spiritual, and not
material, for if his body had been material he could not have walked on the water, and in several
places it speaks of Jesus becoming invisible to those around him."

"I know, son, but Jesus Christ was the Son of God."

"That is true, father, so are we, I distinctly remember reading in St. John--'now are we the
sons of God.' St. Paul also speaks of us as sons of God and joint heirs with Christ."

The Rev. Williams slowly closed the Bible he had been holding open on his knee and looked at
his son. Where would this thing end? He must try and confine the boy to one thing at a time,
so he said, "I am still in the dark concerning your idea of how the material body came to be."

"Father, I will quote you again from the Bible--'as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he'
This means that if you think anything, no matter what, and believe what you think, then so
it is with you, and it seems true to you. For instance, take a person that is demented, who
imagines he is King George, and believes it; to himself he is king George and no one can make
him believe otherwise."

"That may be true of one who is demented, but how about a sane person?"

