Our first business was the choice of a president for the convention, and, as it had been decided
by the State committee to present for that office the name of one of the most respected judges
in the State, the Honorable Platt Potter, of Schenectady, it was naturally expected that some
member of the regular organization would present his name in a dignified speech.  But hardly
had the chairman of the State committee called the convention to order when the aforesaid Tammany
Republican, having heard that Judge Potter was to be elected, thought evidently that he could
gain recognition and applause by being the first to present his name.  He therefore rushed
for- ward, and almost before the chairman had declared the convention opened, cried out:  ``Mr.
Chairman, I move you, sir, that the Honorable `Pot Platter' be made president of this convention.''
A scream of laughter went up from all parts of the house, and in an instant a gentleman rose
and moved to amend by making the name ``Platt Potter.''  This was carried, and the proposer
of the original motion retired crestfallen to his seat.

I had the honor of presenting Mr. Andrews's name.  He was nominated and elected triumphantly,
and so began the career of one of the best judges that New York has ever had on its highest
court, who has also for many years occupied, with the respect and esteem of the State, the
position of chief justice.

The convention then went on to nominate other judges, --nomination being equivalent to election,--but
when the last name was reached there came a close contest.  An old friend informed me that
Judge Folger, my former colleague in the Senate and since that assistant treasurer of the United
States in the city of New York, was exceedingly anxious to escape from this latter position,
and desired greatly the nomination to a judgeship on the Court of Appeals.

I decided at once to do what was possible to secure Judge Folger's nomination, though our personal
relations were very unsatisfactory.  Owing to our two conflicts at the close of our senatorial
term above referred to, and to another case where I thought he had treated me unjustly, we
had never exchanged a word since I had left the State Senate; and though we met each other
from time to time on the board of Cornell University trustees, we passed each other in silence.
Our old friendship, which had been very dear to me, seemed forever broken, but I felt deeply
that the fault was not mine.  At the same time I recognized the fact that Judge Folger was
not especially adapted to the position of assistant treasurer of the United States, and was
admirably fitted for the position of judge in the Court of Appeals.  I therefore did everything
possible  to induce one or two of the delegations with which I had some influence to vote for
him, dwelling especially upon his former judgeship, his long acquaintance with the legislation
of the State, and his high character, and at last he was elected by a slight majority.

The convention having adjourned, I was on my way to the train when I was met by Judge Folger,
who had just arrived.  He put out his hand and greeted me most heartily, showing very deep
feeling as he expressed his regret over our estrangement.  Of course I was glad that bygones
were to be bygones, and that our old relations were restored.  He became a most excellent judge,
and finally chief justice of the State, which position he left to become Secretary of the Treasury.

To the political cataclysm which ended his public activity and doubtless hastened his death,
I refer elsewhere.  As long as he lived our friendly relations continued, and this has been
to me ever since a great satisfaction.

In this same year, 1870, occurred my first extended conversation with General Grant.  At my
earlier meeting with him when he was with President Johnson in Albany, I had merely been stiffly
presented to him, and we had exchanged a few commonplaces; but I was now invited to his cottage
at Long Branch and enjoyed a long and pleasant talk with him.  Its main subject was the Franco-German
War then going on, and his sympathies were evidently with Germany.  His comments on the war
were prophetic.  There was nothing dogmatic in them; nothing could be more simple and modest
than his manner and utterance, but there was a clearness and quiet force in them which impressed
me greatly.  He was the first great general I had ever seen, and I was strongly reminded of
his mingled diffidence and mastery when, some years afterward, I talked with Moltke in Berlin.

Another experience of that summer dwells in my memory.  I was staying, during the first week
of September, with my dear old friend, Dr. Henry M. Field, at Stockbridge, in the Berkshire
Mountains of Massachusetts, and had the good fortune, at the house of his brother, the eminent
jurist, David Dudley Field, to pass a rainy evening in company with Mr. Burton Harrison, who,
after a distinguished career at Yale, had been the private secretary of Jefferson Davis, president
of the Southern Confederacy.  On that evening a storm had kept away all but a few of us, and
Mr. Harrison yielded to our entreaties to give us an account of Mr. Davis's flight at the surrender
of Richmond, from the time when he quietly left his pew in St. Paul's Church to that of his
arrest by United States soldiers.  The story was most vivid, and Mr. Harrison, as an eye witness,
told it simply and admirably.  There had already grown out of this flight of Mr. Davis a most
luxuriant tangle of myth and legend, and it had come to be generally believed that the Confederate
president had at last endeavored to shield himself behind the women of his household; that
when arrested he was trying to escape in the attire of his wife, including a hooped skirt and
a bonnet, and that he was betrayed by an incautious display of his military boots beneath his
wife's flounces.  The simple fact was that, having separated from his family party, and seeking
escape to the coast or mountains, he was again and again led by his affection for his family
to return to them, his fears for them overcoming all care for himself; and that, as he was
suffering from neuralgia, he wore over his clothing, to guard him from the incessant rain,
Mrs. Davis' waterproof cloak.  Out of this grew the legend which found expression in jubilant
newspaper articles, songs, and caricatures.

This reminds me that some years later, my old college friend, Colonel William Preston Johnston,
president of Tulane University, told me a story which throws light upon that collapse of the
Confederacy.  Colonel Johnston was at that period the military secretary of President Davis,
and, as the catastrophe approached, was much vexed at the interminable debates in the Confederate
Congress.  Among the subjects of these discussions was the great seal of the Confederacy. 
It had been decided to adopt for this purpose a relief representing Crawford's statue of Washington
at Richmond, with the Southern statesmen and soldiers surrounding it; but though all agreed
that Washington, in his Continental costume, and holding in his hand his cocked hat, should
retain the central position, there were many differences of opinion as to the surrounding portraits,
the result being that motions were made to strike out this or that revolutionary hero from
one State and to replace him by another from another State, thus giving rise to lengthy eulogies
of these various personages, so that the whole thing resembled the discussions in metaphysical
theology by the Byzantines at the time when the Turks were forcing their way through the walls
of Constantinople.  One day, just before the final catastrophe, Mr. Judah Benjamin, formerly
United States senator, but at that time the Confederate secretary of state, passed through
Colonel Johnston's office, and the following dialogue took place.

Colonel Johnston:  ``What are they doing in the Senate and House, Mr. Secretary?''

Mr. Benjamin:  ``Oh, simply debating the Confederate seal, moving to strike out this man and
to insert that.''

Colonel Johnston:  ``Do you know what motion I would make if I were a member?''

Mr. Benjamin:  ``No, what would you move?''

Colonel Johnston:  ``I would move to strike out from the seal everything except the cocked hat.''

Colonel Johnston was right; the Confederacy was ``knocked into a cocked hat'' a few days afterward.

In the autumn of that year, September, 1870, I was sent as a delegate to the State Republican
Convention, and presented as a candidate for the lieutenant-governorship a man who had served
the State admirably in the National Congress and in the State legislature as well as in great
business operations, Mr. DeWitt Littlejohn of Oswego.  I did this on the part of sundry gentlemen
who were anxious to save the Republican ticket, which had at its head my old friend General
Woodford, but though I was successful in securing Mr. Littlejohn's nomination, he soon afterward
declined, and defeat followed in November.

The only part which I continued to take in State politics was in writing letters and in speaking,
on sundry social occasions of a political character, in behalf of harmony between the two factions
which were now becoming more and more bitter.  At first I seemed to have some success, but
before long it became clear that the current was too strong and that the bitterness of faction
was to prevail.  I am so constituted that factious thought and effort dishearten and disgust
me.  At many periods of my life I have acted as a ``buffer'' between conflicting cliques and
factions, generally to some purpose; now it was otherwise.  But, as Kipling says, ``that is
another story.''

The hard work and serious responsibilities brought upon me by the new university had greatly
increased.  They had worn deeply upon me when, in the winter of 1870-71, came an event which
drew me out of my university life for a time and gave me a much needed change: --I was sent
by the President as one of the three commissioners to Santo Domingo to study questions relating
to the annexation of the Spanish part of that island which was then proposed, and to report
thereupon to Congress.

While in Washington at this time I saw much of President Grant, Mr. Sumner, and various other
men who were then leading in public affairs, but some account of them will be given in my reminiscences
of the Santo Domingo expedition.

I trust that it may be allowed me here to recall an incident which ought to have been given
in a preceding chapter.  During one of my earlier visits to the National Capital, I made the
acquaintance of Senator McDougal.  His distorted genius had evidently so dazzled his fellow-
citizens of California that, in spite of his defects, they had sent him to the highest council
of the Nation.  He was a martyr to conviviality, and when more or less under the sway of it,
had strange ideas and quaint ways of expressing them.  His talk recalled to me a time in my
child- hood when, having found a knob of glass, twisted, striated with different colors, and
filled with air bubbles, I enjoyed looking at the landscape through it.  Everything became
grotesquely transfigured.  A cabbage in the foreground became opalescent, and an ear of corn
a mass of jewels, but the whole atmosphere above and beyond was lurid, and the chimneys and
church spires were topsy-turvy.

The only other person whose talk ever produced an impression of this sort on me was Tolstoy,
and he will be discussed in another chapter.

McDougal's peculiarity made him at last unbearable; so much so that the Senate was obliged
to take measures against him.  His speech in his own defense showed the working of his mind,
and one passage most of all.  It remains probably the best defense of drunkenness ever made,
and it ran as follows:

``Mr. President,--I pity the man who has never viewed the affairs of this world, save from
the poor, low, miserable plane of ordinary sobriety.''

My absence in the West Indies covered the first three months of the year 1871, and then the
commission returned to Washington and made its report; but regarding this I shall speak at
length in the chapter of my diplomatic experiences, devoted to the Santo Domingo question.

CHAPTER X

THE GREELEY CAMPAIGN--1872

Having finished my duties on the Santo Domingo Commission, I returned to the University in
May of 1871, devoted myself again to my duties as president and professor, and, in the mass
of arrears which had accumulated, found ample occupation.  I also delivered various addresses
at universities, colleges, and elsewhere, keeping as remote from politics as possible.

In June, visiting New York in order to take part in a dinner given by various journalists and
others to my classmate and old friend, George Washburne Smalley, at that time the London correspondent
of the ``New York Tribune,'' I met, for the first time, Colonel John Hay, who was in the full
tide of his brilliant literary career and who is, as I write this, Secretary of State of the
United States.  His clear, thoughtful talk strongly impressed me, but the most curious circumstance
connected with the affair was that several of us on the way to Delmonico's stopped for a time
to observe the public reception given to Mr. Horace Greeley on his return from a tour through
the Southern States.  Mr. Greeley, undoubtedly from the purest personal and patriotic motives,
had, with other men of high standing, including Gerrit Smith, attached his name to the bail
bond of Jefferson Davis, which released the ex-president of the Confederacy from prison, and,
in fact, freed him entirely from anything like punishment for treason.  I have always admired
Mr. Greeley's honesty and courage in doing this.  Doubtless, too, an equally patriotic and
honest desire to aid in bringing North and South together after the war led him to take an
extensive tour through sundry Southern States.  He had just returned from this tour and this
reception was given him in consequence.

It had already been noised abroad that there was a movement on foot to make him a candidate
for the Presidency, and many who knew the characteristics of the man, even those who, like
myself, had been greatly influenced by him and regarded him as by far the foremost editorial
writer that our country had ever produced, looked upon this idea with incredulity.  For of
all patriotic men in the entire country who had touched public affairs Horace Greeley seemed
the most eminently unfit for executive duties.  He was notoriously, in business matters, the
easy prey of many who happened to get access to him;-- the ``long-haired men and short-haired
women'' of the country seemed at times to have him entirely under their sway; his hard-earned
money, greatly needed by himself and his family, was lavished upon ne'er-do-weels and cast
into all sorts of impracticable schemes.  He made loans to the discarded son of the richest
man whom the United States had at that time produced, and in every way showed himself an utterly
incompetent judge of men.  It was a curious fact that lofty as were his purposes, and noble
as were his main characteristics, the best men of the State--men like Seward, Weed, Judge Folger,
Senator Andrews, General Leavenworth, Elbridge Spaulding, and other really thoughtful, solid,
substantial advisers of the Republican party--were disliked by him, and yet no other reason
could be assigned than this:--that while they all admired him as a writer, they could not be
induced to pretend that they considered him fit for high executive office, either in the State
or Nation.  Doubtless there were exceptions to this rule, but it was the rule nevertheless.
This was clearly and indeed comically shown at the reception given him in Union Square on the
evening referred to.  Mr. Greeley appeared at a front window of a house on the Broadway side
and came out upon a temporary platform.  His appearance is deeply stamped upon my memory. 
He was in a rather slouchy evening dress, his white hair thrown back off his splendid forehead,
and his broad, smooth, kindly features as serene as the face of a big, well-washed baby.

There was in his appearance something at the same time na<i:>ve and impressive, and the simplicity
of it was increased by a bouquet, huge and gorgeous, which some admirer had attached to his
coat, and which forced upon the mind of a reflective observer the idea of a victim adorned
for sacrifice.

He gave scant attention to his audience in the way of ceremonial greeting, and plunged at once
into his subject; --beginning in a high, piping, falsetto voice which, for a few moments, was
almost painful.  But the value of his matter soon overcame the defects of his manner; the speech
was in his best vein; it struck me as the best, on the whole, I had ever heard him make, and
that is saying much.  Holding in his hands a little package of cards on which notes were jotted
down, he occasionally cast his eyes upon them, but he evidently trusted to the inspiration
of the hour for his phrasing, and his trust was not misplaced.  I never heard a more simple,
strong, lucid use of the English language than was his on that occasion.  The speech was a
very noble plea for the restoration of good feeling between North and South, with an effort
to show that the distrust felt by the South toward the North was natural.  In the course of
it he said in substance:

``Fellow Citizens:  The people of the South have much reason to distrust us.  We have sent
among them during the war and since the war, to govern them, to hold office among them, and
to eat out their substance, a number of worthless adventurers whom they call ``carpet-baggers.''
These emissaries of ours pretend to be patriotic and pious; they pull long faces and say `Let
us pray'; but they spell it p-r-E-y.  The people of the South hate them, and they ought to
hate them.''

At this we in the audience looked at each other in amazement; for, standing close beside Mr.
Greeley, at that very moment, most obsequiously, was perhaps the worst ``carpet-bagger'' ever
sent into the South; a man who had literally been sloughed off by both parties;-- who, having
been become an unbearable nuisance in New York politics, had been ``unloaded'' by Mr. Lincoln,
in an ill-inspired moment, upon the hapless South, and who was now trying to find new pasture.

But this was not the most comical thing; for Mr. Greeley in substance continued as follows:

``Fellow Citizens:  You know how it is yourselves.  There are men who go to your own State
Capitol, nominally as legislators or advisers, but really to plunder and steal.  These men
in the Northern States correspond to the `carpet-baggers' in the Southern States, and you hate
them and you ought to hate them.''  Thus speaking, Mr. Greeley poured out the vials of his
wrath against all this class of people; blissfully unconscious of the fact that on the other
side of him stood the most notorious and corrupt lobbyist who had been known in Albany for
years;-- a man who had been chased out of that city by the sheriff for attempted bribery, had
been obliged to remain for a considerable time in hiding to avoid criminal charges of exerting
corrupt influence on legislation, and whom both political parties naturally disowned.  Comical
as all this was, it was pathetic to see a man like Greeley in such a cave of Adullam.

During this summer of 1871 occurred the death of one of my dearest friends, a man who had exercised
a most happy influence over my opinions and who had contributed much to the progress of anti-slavery
ideas in New England and New York.  This was the Rev. Samuel Joseph May, pastor of the Unitarian
Church in Syracuse, a friend and associate of Emerson, Garrison, Phillips, Gerrit Smith, and
one of the noblest, truest, and most beautiful characters I have ever known.

Having seen the end of slavery, and being about eighty years of age, he felt deeply that his
work was done, and thenceforward declared that he was happy in the idea that his life on this
planet was soon to end.  I have never seen, save in the case of the Hicksite Quaker at Ann
Arbor, referred to elsewhere, such a living faith in the reality of another world.  Again and
again Mr. May said to me in the most cheerful way imaginable, ``I am as much convinced of the
existence of a future state as of these scenes about me, and, to tell you the truth, now that
my work here is ended, I am becoming very curious to know what the next stage of existence
is like.''  On the afternoon of the 1st of July I paid him a visit, found him much wearied
by a troublesome chronic complaint, but contented, cheerful, peaceful as ever.

Above him as he lay in his bed was a portrait which I had formerly seen in his parlor.  Thereby
hung a curious tale.  Years before, at the very beginning of Mr. May's career, he had been
a teacher in the town of Canterbury, Connecticut, when Miss Prudence Crandall was persecuted,
arrested, and imprisoned for teaching colored children.  Mr. May had taken up her case earnestly,
and, with the aid of Mr. Lafayette Foster, afterward president of the United States Senate,
had fought it out until the enemies of Miss Crandall were beaten.  As a memorial of this activity
of his, Mr. May received this large, well painted portrait of Miss Crandall, and it was one
of his most valued possessions.

On the afternoon referred to, after talking about various other matters most cheerfully, and
after I had told him that we could not spare him yet, that we needed him at least ten years
longer, he laughingly said, ``Can't you compromise on one year?''  ``No,'' I said, ``nothing
less than ten years.  ``Thereupon he laughed pleasantly, called his daughter, Mrs. Wilkinson,
and said, ``Remember; when I am gone this portrait of Prudence Crandall is to go to Andrew
White for Cornell University, where my anti-slavery books already are.''  As I left him, both
of us were in the most cheerful mood, he appearing better than during some weeks previous.
Next morning I learned that he had died during the night.  The portrait of Miss Crandall now
hangs in the Cornell University Library.

My summer was given up partly to recreation mingled with duties of various sorts, including
an address in honor of President Woolsey at the Alumni dinner at Yale and another at the laying
of the corner stone of Syracuse University.

Noteworthy at this period was a dinner with Longfellow at Cambridge, and I recall vividly his
showing me various places in the Craigie house connected with interesting passages in the life
of Washington when he occupied it.

Early in the autumn, while thus engrossed in everything but political matters, I received a
letter from my friend Mr. A. B. Cornell, a most energetic and efficient man in State and national
politics, a devoted supporter of General Grant and Senator Conkling, and afterward governor
of the State of New York, asking me if I would go to the approaching State convention and accept
its presidency.  I wrote him in return expressing my reluctance, dwelling upon the duties pressing
upon me in connection with the university, and asking to be excused.  In return came a very
earnest letter insisting on the importance of the convention in keeping the Republican party
together, and in preventing its being split into factions before the approaching presidential
election.  I had, on all occasions, and especially at various social gatherings at which political
leaders were present, in New York and elsewhere, urged the importance of throwing aside all
factious spirit and harmonizing the party in view of the coming election, and to this Mr. Cornell
referred very earnestly.  As a consequence I wrote him that if the  delegates from New York
opposed to General Grant could be admitted to the convention on equal terms with those who
favored him, and if he, Mr. Cornell, and the other managers of the Grant wing of the party
would agree that the anti-Grant forces should receive full and fair representation on the various
committees, I would accept the presidency of the convention in the interest of peace between
the factions, and would do my best to harmonize the differing interests in the party, but that
otherwise I would not consent to be a member of the convention.  In his answer Mr. Cornell
fully agreed to this, and I have every reason to believe, indeed to know, that his agreement
was kept.  The day of the convention having arrived (September 27, 1871), Mr. Cornell, as chairman
of the Republican State committee, called the assemblage to order, and after a somewhat angry
clash with the opponents of the administration, nominated me to the chairmanship of the convention.

By a freak of political fortune I was separated in this contest from my old friend Chauncey
M. Depew; but though on different sides of the question at issue, we sat together chatting
pleasantly as the vote went on, neither of us, I think, very anxious regarding it, and when
the election was decided in my favor he was one of those who, under instructions from the temporary
chairman, very courteously conducted me to the chair.  It was an immense assemblage, and from
the first it was evident that there were very turbulent elements in it.  Hardly, indeed, had
I taken my seat, when the chief of the Syracuse police informed me that there were gathered
near the platform a large body of Tammany roughs who had come from New York expressly to interfere
with the convention, just as a few years before they had interfered in the same place with
the convention of their own party, seriously wounding its regular chairman; but that I need
have no alarm at any demonstration they might make; that the police were fully warned and able
to meet the adversary.

In my opening speech I made an earnest plea for peace among the various factions of the party,
and especially between those who favored and those who opposed the administration; this plea
was received with kindness, and shortly afterward came the appointment of committees.  Of course,
like every other president of such a body, I had to rely on the standing State committee. 
Hardly one man in a thousand coming to the presidency of a State convention knows enough of
the individual leaders of politics in all the various localities to distinguish between their
shades of opinion.  It was certainly impossible for me to know all those who, in the various
counties of the State, favored General Grant and those who disliked him.  Like every other
president of a convention, probably without an exception, from the beginning to the present
hour, I received the list of the convention committees from the State committee which represented
the party, and I received this list, not only with implied, but express assurances that the
agreement under which I had taken the chairmanship had been complied with;--namely, that the
list represented fairly the two wings of the party in convention, and that both the Grant and
the anti-Grant delegations from New York city were to be admitted on equal terms.

I had no reason then, and have no reason now, to believe that the State committee abused my
confidence.  I feel sure now, as I felt sure then, that the committee named by me fairly represented
the two wings of the party; but after their appointment it was perfectly evident that this
did not propitiate the anti-administration wing.  They were deeply angered against the administration
by the fact that General Grant had taken as his adviser in regard to New York patronage and
politics Senator Conkling rather than Senator Fenton.  Doubtless Senator Conkling's manner
in dealing with those opposed to him had made many enemies who, by milder methods, might have
been brought to the support of the administration.  At any rate, it was soon clear that the
anti-administration forces, recognizing their inferiority in point of numbers, were determined
to secede.  This, indeed, was soon formally announced by one of their leaders; but as they
still continued after this declaration to take part in the discussions, the point of order
was raised that, having formally declared their intention of leaving the convention, they were
no longer entitled to take part in its deliberations.  This point I ruled out, declaring that
I could not consider the anti-administration wing as outside the convention until they had
left it.  The debates grew more and more bitter, Mr. Conkling making, late at night, a powerful
speech which rallied the forces of the administration and brought them victory.  The anti-
administration delegates now left the convention, but before they did so one of them rose and
eloquently tendered to me as president the thanks of his associates for my impartiality, saying
that it contrasted most honorably with the treatment they had received from certain other members
of the convention.  But shortly after leaving they held a meeting in another place, and, having
evidently made up their minds that they must declare war against everybody who remained in
the convention, they denounced us all alike, and the same gentleman who had made the speech
thanking me for my fairness, and who was very eminent among those who were known as ``Tammany
Republicans,'' now made a most violent harangue in which he declared that a man who conducted
himself as I had done, and who remained in such an infamous convention, or had anything to
do with it, was ``utterly unfit to be an instructor of youth.''

Similar attacks continued to appear in the anti- administration papers for a considerable time
afterward, and at first they were rather trying to me.  I felt that nothing could be more unjust,
for I had strained to the last degree my influence with my associates who supported General
Grant in securing concessions to those who differed from us.  Had these attacks been made by
organs of the opposite political party, I would not have minded them; but being made in sundry
journals which had represented the Republican party and were constantly read by my old friends,
neighbors, and students, they naturally, for a time, disquieted me.  One of the charges then
made has often amused me as I have looked back upon it since, and is worth referring to as
an example of the looseness of statement common among the best of American political journals
during exciting political contests.  This charge was that I had ``sought to bribe people to
support the administration by offering them consulates.''  This was echoed in various parts
of the State.

The facts were as follows:  An individual who had made some money as a sutler in connection
with the army had obtained control of a local paper at Syracuse, and, through the influence
thus gained, an election to the lower house of the State legislature.  During the winter which
he passed at Albany he was one of three or four Republicans who voted with the Democrats in
behalf of the measures proposed by Tweed, the municipal arch-robber afterward convicted and
punished for his crimes against the city of New York.  Just at this particular time Tweed was
at the height of his power, and at a previous session of the legislature he had carried his
measures through the Assembly by the votes of three or four Republicans who were needed in
addition to the Democratic votes in order to give him the required majority.  Many leading
Republican journals had published the names of these three or four men with black lines around
them, charging them, apparently justly, with having sold themselves to Tweed for money, and
among them the person above referred to.  Though he controlled a newspaper in Syracuse, he
had been unable to secure renomination to the legislature, and, shortly afterward, in order
to secure rehabilitation as well as pelf, sought an appointment to the Syracuse postmastership.
Senator Conkling, mindful of the man's record, having opposed the appointment, and the President
having declined to make it, the local paper under control of this person turned most bitterly
against the administration, and day after day poured forth diatribes against the policy and
the persons of all connected with the actual government at Washington, and especially against
President Grant and Senator Conkling.

The editor of the paper at that time was a very gifted young writer, an old schoolmate and
friend of mine, who, acting under instructions from the managers of the paper, took a very
bitter line against the administration and its supporters.

About the time of the meeting of the convention this old friend came to me, expressed his regret
at the line he was obliged to take, said that both he and his wife were sick of the whole thing
and anxious to get out of it, and added:  ``The only way out, that I can see, is some appointment
that will at once relieve me of all these duties, and in fact take me out of the country. 
Cannot you aid me by application to the senator or the President in obtaining a consulate?''
I answered him laughingly, ``My dear ----, I will gladly do all I can for you, not only for
friendship's sake, but because I think you admirably fitted for the place you name; but don't
you think that, for a few days at least, while you are applying for such a position, you might
as well stop your outrageous attacks against the very men from whom you hope to receive the
appointment?''

Having said this, half in jest and half in earnest, I thought no more on the subject, save
as to the best way of aiding my friend to secure the relief he desired.

So rose the charge that I was ``bribing persons to support the administration by offering them
consulates.''

But strong friends rallied to my support.  Mr. George William Curtis in ``Harper's Weekly,''
Mr. Godkin in ``The Nation,'' Mr. Charles Dudley Warner and others in various other journals
took up the cudgels in my behalf, and I soon discovered that the attacks rather helped than
hurt me.  They did much, indeed, to disgust me for a time with political life; but I soon found
that my friends, my students, and the country at large understood the charges, and that they
seemed to think more rather than less of me on account of them.  In those days the air was
full of that sort of onslaught upon every one supposed to be friendly to General Grant, and
the effect in one case was revealed to me rather curiously.  Matthew Carpenter, of Wisconsin,
was then one of the most brilliant members of the United States Senate, a public servant of
whom his State was proud; but he had cordially supported the administration and was consequently
made the mark for bitter attack, day after day and week after week, by the opposing journals,
and these attacks finally culminated in an attempt to base a very ugly scandal against him
upon what was known among his friends to be a simple courtesy publicly rendered to a very worthy
lady.  The attacks and the scandal resounded throughout the anti-administration papers, their
evident purpose being to defeat his re<e:>lection to the United States Senate.

But just before the time for the senatorial election in Wisconsin, meeting a very bright and
active-minded student of my senior class who came from that State, I asked him, ``What is the
feeling among your people regarding the re<e:>lection of Senator Carpenter?''  My student immediately
burst into a torrent of wrath and answered:  ``The people of Wisconsin will send Mr. Carpenter
back to the Senate by an enormous majority.  We will see if a gang of newspaper blackguards
can slander one of our senators out of public life.''  The result was as my young friend had
foretold:  Mr. Carpenter was triumphantly re<e:>lected.

While I am on this subject I may refer, as a comfort to those who have found themselves unjustly
attacked in political matters, to two other notable cases within my remembrance.

Probably no such virulence has ever been known day after day, year after year, as was shown
by sundry presses of large circulation in their attacks on William H. Seward.  They represented
him as shady and tricky; as the lowest of demagogues; as utterly without conscience or ability;
as pretending a hostility to slavery which was simply a craving for popularity; they refused
to report his speeches, or, if they did report them, distorted them.  He had also incurred
the displeasure of very many leaders of his own party, and of some of its most powerful presses,
yet he advanced steadily from high position to high position, and won a lasting and most honorable
place in the history of his country.

The same may be said of Senator Conkling.  The attacks on him in the press were bitter and
almost universal; yet the only visible result was that he was re<e:>lected to the national
Senate by an increased majority.  To the catastrophe which some years later ended his political
career, the onslaught by the newspapers contributed nothing; it resulted directly from the
defects of his own great qualities and not at all from attacks made upon him from outside.

Almost from the first moment of my acquaintance with Mr. Conkling, I had endeavored to interest
him in the reform of the civil service, and at least, if this was not possible, to prevent
his actively opposing it.  In this sense I wrote him various letters.  For a time they seemed
successful; but at last, under these attacks, he broke all bounds and became the bitter opponent
of the movement.  In his powerful manner and sonorous voice he from time to time expressed
his contempt for it.

The following spring (June 5, 1872) I attended the Republican National Convention at Philadelphia
as a substitute delegate.  It was very interesting and, unlike the enormous assemblages since
of twelve or fifteen thousand people at Chicago and elsewhere, was a really deliberative body.
As it was held in the Academy of Music, there was room for a sufficient audience, while there
was not room for a vast mob overpowering completely the members of the convention and preventing
any real discussion at some most important junctures, as has been the case in so many conventions
of both parties in these latter years.

The most noteworthy features of this convention were the speeches of sundry colored delegates
from the South.  Very remarkable they were, and a great revelation as to the ability of some,
at least, of their race in the former slave States.

General Grant was renominated for the Presidency, and for the Vice-Presidency Mr. Henry Wilson
of Massachusetts in place of Schuyler Colfax, who had held the position during General Grant's
first term.

The only speeches I made during the campaign were one from the balcony of the Continental Hotel
in Philadelphia and one from the steps of the Delavan House at Albany, but they were perfunctory
and formal.  There was really no need of speeches, and I was longing to go at my proper university
work.  Mr. James Anthony Froude, the historian, had arrived from England to deliver his lectures
before our students; and, besides this, the university had encountered various difficulties
which engrossed all my thoughts.

General Grant's re<e:>lection was a great victory.  Mr. Greeley had not one Northern electoral
vote; worst of all, he had, during the contest, become utterly broken in body and mind, and
shortly after the election he died.

His death was a sad ending of a career which, as a whole, had been so beneficent.  As to General
Grant, I believe now, as I believed then, that his election was a great blessing, and that
he was one of the noblest, purest, and most capable men who have ever sat in the Presidency.
The cheap, clap-trap antithesis which has at times been made between Grant the soldier and
Grant the statesman is, I am convinced, utterly without foundation.  The qualities which made
him a great soldier made him an effective statesman.  This fact was clearly recognized by the
American people at various times during the war, and especially when, at the surrender of Appomattox,
he declined to deprive General Lee of his sword, and quietly took the responsibility of allowing
the soldiers of the Southern army to return with their horses to their fields to resume peaceful
industry.  These statesmanlike qualities were developed more and more by the great duties and
responsibilities of the Presidency.  His triumph over financial demagogy in his vetoes of the
Inflation Bill, and his triumph over political demagogy in securing the treaty of Washington
and the Alabama indemnity, prove him a statesman worthy to rank with the best of his predecessors.
In view of these evidences of complete integrity and high capacity, and bearing in mind various
conversations which I had with him during his public life down to a period just before his
death, I feel sure that history will pronounce him not only a general but a statesman in the
best sense of the word.

The renomination of General Grant at the Philadelphia convention was the result of gratitude,
respect, and conviction of his fitness.  Although Mr. Greeley had the support of the most influential
presses of the United States, and was widely beloved and respected as one who had borne the
burden and heat of the day, he was defeated in obedience to a healthy national instinct.

Years afterward I was asked in London by one of the most eminent of English journalists how
such a thing could have taken place.  Said he, ``The leading papers of the United States, almost
without exception, were in favor of Mr. Greeley; how, then, did it happen that he was in such
a hopeless minority?''  I explained the matter as best I could, whereupon he said, ``Whatever
the explanation may be, it proves that the American press, by its wild statements in political
campaigns, and especially by its reckless attacks upon individuals, has lost that hold upon
American opinion which it ought to have; and, depend upon it, this is a great misfortune for
your country.''  I did not attempt to disprove this statement, for I knew but too well that
there was great truth in it.

Of my political experiences at that period I recall two: the first of these was making the
acquaintance at Saratoga  of Mr. Samuel J. Tilden.  His political fortunes were then at their
lowest point.  With Mr. Dean Richmond of Buffalo, he had been one of the managers of the Democratic
party in the State, but, Mr. Richmond having died, the Tweed wing of the party, supported by
the canal contractors, had declared war against Mr. Tilden, treated him with contempt, showed
their aversion to him in every way, and, it was fully understood, had made up their minds to
depose him.  I remember walking and talking again and again with him under the colonnade at
Congress Hall, and, without referring to any person by name, he dwelt upon the necessity of
more earnest work in redeeming American politics from the management of men utterly unfit for
leadership.  Little did he or I foresee that soon afterward his arch-enemy, Tweed, then in
the same hotel and apparently all-powerful, was to be a fugitive from justice, and finally
to die in prison, and that he, Mr. Tilden himself, was to be elected governor of the State
of New York, and to come within a hair's-breadth of the presidential chair at Washington.

The other circumstance of a political character was my attendance as an elector at the meeting
of the Electoral College at Albany, which cast the vote of New York for General Grant.  I had
never before sat in such a body, and its proceedings interested me.  As president we elected
General Stewart L. Woodford, and as the body, after the formal election of General Grant to
the Presidency, was obliged to send certificates to the governor of the State, properly signed
and sealed, and as it had no seal of its own, General Woodford asked if any member had a seal
which he would lend to the secretary for that purpose.  Thereupon a seal-ring which Goldwin
Smith had brought from Rome and given me was used for that purpose.  It was an ancient intaglio.
Very suitably, it bore the figure of a ``Winged Victory,'' and it was again publicly used,
many years later, when it was affixed to the American signature of the international agreement
made at the Peace Conference of The Hague.

The following winter I had my first experience of ``Reconstruction'' in the South.  Being somewhat
worn with work, I made a visit to Florida, passing leisurely through the southern seaboard
States, and finding at Columbia an old Yale friend, Governor Chamberlain, from whom I learned
much.  But the simple use of my eyes and ears during the journey gave me more than all else.
A visit to the State legislature of South Carolina revealed vividly the new order of things.
The State Capitol was a beautiful marble building, but unfinished without and dirty within.
Approaching the hall of the House of Representatives, I found the door guarded by a negro,
squalid and filthy.  He evidently reveled in his new citizenship; his chair was tilted back
against the wall, his feet were high in the air, and he was making everything nauseous about
him with tobacco; but he soon became obsequious and admitted us to one of the most singular
deliberative bodies ever known--a body composed of former landed proprietors and slave-owners
mixed up pell-mell with their former slaves and with Northern adventurers then known as ``carpet-baggers.''
The Southern gentlemen of the Assembly were gentlemen still, and one of them, Mr. Memminger,
formerly Secretary of the Treasury of the Confederate States, was especially courteous to us.
But soon all other things were lost in contemplation of ``Mr. Speaker.''  He was a bright,
nimble, voluble mulatto who, as one of the Southern gentlemen informed me, was ``the smartest
nigger God ever made.''  Having been elevated to the speakership, he magnified his office.
While we were observing him, a gentleman of one of the most historic families of South Carolina,
a family which had given to the State a long line of military commanders, governors, senators,
and ambassadors, rose to make a motion.  The speaker, a former slave, at once declared him
out of order.  On the member persisting in his effort, the speaker called out, ``De genlemun
frum Bufert has no right to de floh; de genlemun from Bufert will take his seat,'' and the
former aristocrat obeyed.  To this it had come at last.  In the presence of this assembly,
in this hall where dis- union really had its birth, where secession first shone out in all
its glory, a former slave ordered a former master to sit down, and was obeyed.

In Charleston the same state of things was to be seen, and for the first time I began to feel
sympathy for the South.  This feeling was deepened by what I saw in Georgia and Florida; and
yet, below it all I seemed to see the hand of God in history, and in the midst of it all I
seemed to hear a deep voice from the dead.  To me, seeing these things, there came, reverberating
out of the last century, that prediction of Thomas Jefferson,--himself a slaveholder,--who,
after depicting the offenses of slavery, ended with these words, worthy of Isaiah,--divinely
inspired if any ever were:--``I tremble when I remember that God is just.''

CHAPTER XI

GRANT, HAYES, AND GARFIELD--1871-1881

At various times after the death of Mr. Lincoln I visited Washington, meeting many men especially
influential, and, first of all, President Grant.  Of all personages whom I then met he impressed
me most strongly.  At various times I talked with him at the White House, dining with him and
seeing him occasionally in his lighter mood, but at no time was there the slightest diminution
of his unaffected dignity.  Now and then he would make some dry remark which showed a strong
sense of humor, but in everything there was the same quiet, simple strength.  On one occasion,
when going to the White House, I met Professor Agassiz of Cambridge, and took him with me:
we were received cordially, General Grant offering us cigars, as was his wont with visitors,
and Agassiz genially smoking with him: when we had come away the great naturalist spoke with
honest admiration of the President, evidently impressed by the same qualities which had always
impressed me--his modesty, simplicity, and quiet force.

I also visited him at various times in his summer cottage at Long Branch, and on one of these
occasions he gave a bit of history which specially interested me.  As we were taking coffee
after dinner, a card was brought in, and the President, having glanced at it, said, ``Tell
him that I cannot see him.''  The servant departed with the message, but soon returned and
said, ``The gentleman wishes to know when he can see the President.''  ``Tell him NEVER,''
said Grant.

It turned out that the person whose name the card bore was the correspondent of a newspaper
especially noted for sensation-mongering, and the conversation drifted to the subject of newspapers
and newspaper correspondents, when the President told the following story, which I give as
nearly as possible in his own words:

``During the hottest period of the final struggle in Virginia, we suffered very much from the
reports of newspaper correspondents who prowled about our camps and then put on the wires the
information they had gained, which of course went South as rapidly as it went North.  It became
really serious and embarrassed us greatly.  On this account, one night, when I had decided
to make an important movement with a portion of the army early next day, I gave orders that
a tent should be pitched in an out-of-the-way place, at the earliest possible moment in the
morning, and notified the generals who were to take part in the movement to meet me there.

``It happened that on the previous day there had come to the camp a newspaper correspondent
named ----, and, as he bore a letter from Mr. Washburne, I treated him as civilly as possible.

``At daylight next morning, while we were assembled in the tent making final arrangements,
one of my aides, Colonel ----, heard a noise just outside, and, going out, saw this correspondent
lying down at full length, his ear under the edge of the tent, and a note-book in his hand.
Thereupon Colonel took the correspondent by his other ear, lifted him to his feet, and swore
to him a solemn oath that if he was visible in any part of the camp more than five minutes
longer, a detachment of troops would be ordered out to shoot him and bury him there in the
swamp, so that no one would ever know his name or burial-place.

``The correspondent left at once,'' said the President, ``and he took his revenge by writing
a history of the war from which he left me out.''

The same characteristic which I had found at other meetings with Grant came out even more strongly
when, just before the close of his term, he made me a visit at Cornell, where one of his sons
was a student.  To meet him I invited several of our professors and others who were especially
prejudiced against him, and, without exception, they afterward expressed the very feeling which
had come over me after my first conversation with him-- surprise at the revelation of his quiet
strength and his knowledge of public questions then before the country.

During a walk on the university grounds he spoke to me of the Santo Domingo matter.[3]  He
said:  ``The annexation question is doubtless laid aside for the present, but the time will
come when the country will have occasion to regret that it was disposed of without adequate
discussion.  As I am so soon to leave the presidency, I may say to you now that one of my main
thoughts in regard to the annexation of the island has been that it might afford a refuge for
the negroes of the South in case anything like a war of races should ever arise in the old
slave States.''  He then alluded to the bitter feeling between the two races which was then
shown in the South, and which was leading many of the blacks to take refuge in Kansas and other
northwestern States, and said, ``If such a refuge as Santo Domingo were open to them, their
former masters would soon find that they have not the colored population entirely at their
mercy, and would be obliged to compromise with them on far more just terms than would otherwise
be likely.''

[3] See my chapter on Santo Domingo experiences.

The President said this with evidently deep conviction, and it seemed to me a very thoughtful
and far-sighted view of the possibilities and even probabilities involved.

During another walk, in speaking of the approaching close of his second presidential term,
he said that he found himself looking forward to it with the same longing which he had formerly
had as a cadet at West Point when looking forward to a furlough.

I have never believed that the earnest effort made by his friends at Chicago to nominate him
for a third term was really prompted by him, or that he originally desired it.  It always seemed
to me due to the devotion of friends who admired his noble qualities, and thought that the
United States ought not to be deprived of them in obedience to a tradition, in this case, more
honored in the breach than in the observance.

I may add here that, having seen him on several convivial occasions, and under circumstances
when, if ever, he would be likely to indulge in what was understood to have been, in his early
life, an unfortunate habit, I never saw him betray the influence of alcohol in the slightest
degree.

Shortly after General Grant laid down his high office, he made his well-known journey to Europe
and the East, and I had the pleasure of meeting him at Cologne and traveling up the Rhine with
him.  We discussed American affairs all day long.  He had during the previous week been welcomed
most cordially to the hospitalities of two leading sovereigns of Europe, and had received endless
attentions from the most distinguished men of England and Belgium, but in conversation he never,
in the slightest degree, referred to any of these experiences.  He seemed not to think of them;
his heart was in matters pertaining to his own country.  He told me much regarding his administration,
and especially spoke with the greatest respect and affection of his Secretary of State, Mr.
Hamilton Fish.

Somewhat later I again met him in Paris, had several walks and talks with him in which he discussed
American affairs, and I remember that he dwelt with especial admiration, and even affection,
upon his colleagues Sherman and Sheridan.

I trust that it may not be considered out of place if, in this retrospect, which is intended,
first of all, for my children and grandchildren, I state that a personal fact, which was known
to many from other sources, was confirmed to me in one of these conversations:  General Grant
informing me, as he had previously informed my wife, that he had fully purposed to name me
as Secretary of State had Mr. Fish carried out his intention of resigning.  When he told me
this, my answer was that I considered it a very fortunate escape for us both; that my training
had not fitted me for such duties; that my experience in the diplomatic service had then been
slight; that I had no proper training as a lawyer; that my knowledge of international law was
derived far more from the reading of books than from its application; and that I doubted my
physical ability to bear the pressure for patronage which converged upon the head of the President's
cabinet.

In the Washington of those days my memory also recalls vividly a dinner with Senator Conkling
at which I met a number of interesting men, and among them Governor Seymour, who had been the
candidate opposed to Grant during his first presidential campaign; Senator Anthony, Senator
Edmunds, the former Vice-President Mr. Hamlin, Senator Carpenter, and others.  Many good stories
were told, and one amused me especially, as it was given with admirable mimicry by Senator
Carpenter.  He described an old friend of his, a lawyer, who, coming before one of the higher
courts with a very doubtful case, began his plea as follows:  ``May it please the court, there
is only one point in this case favorable to my client, but that, may it please the court, is
a chink in the common law which has been worn smooth by the multitude of scoundrels who have
escaped through it.''

During the year 1878 I was sent as an honorary commissioner from the State of New York to the
Paris Exposition, and shall give a more full account of this period in another chapter.  Suffice
it that, having on my return prepared my official report on the provision for political education
made by the different governments of Europe, I became more absorbed than ever in university
affairs, keeping aloof as much as possible from politics.  But in the political campaign of
1878 I could not but be interested.  It was different from any other that I had known, for
the ``Greenback Craze'' bloomed out as never before and seemed likely to poison the whole country.
Great hardships had arisen from the fact that debts which had been made under a depreciated
currency had to be paid in money of greater value.  Men who, in what were known as ``flush
times,'' had bought farms, paid down half the price, and mortgaged them for the other half,
found now, when their mortgages became due, that they could not sell the property for enough
to cover the lien upon it.  Besides this, the great army of speculators throughout the country
found the constant depreciation of prices bringing them to bankruptcy.  In the cry for more
greenbacks,-- that is, for continued issues of paper money,-- demagogism undoubtedly had a
large part; but there were many excellent men who were influenced by it, and among them Peter
Cooper of New York, founder of the great institution which bears his name, one of the purest
and best men I have ever known.

This cry for more currency was echoed from one end of the country to the other.  In various
States, and especially in Ohio, it seemed to carry everything before it, nearly all the public
men of note, including nearly all the leading Democrats and very many of the foremost Republicans,
bowing down to it, the main exceptions being John Sherman and Garfield.

In central New York the mania seemed, early in the summer, to take strong hold.  In Syracuse
John Wieting, an amazingly fluent speaker with much popular humor, who had never before shown
any interest in politics, took the stump for an unlimited issue of government paper currency,
received the nomination to Congress from the Democrats and sundry independent organizations,
and for a time seemed to carry everything before him.  A similar state of things prevailed
at Ithaca and the region round about Cayuga Lake.  Two or three people much respected in the
community came out for this doctrine, and, having a press under their control, their influence
seemed likely to be serious.  Managers of the Republican organization in the State seemed at
first apathetic; but at last they became alarmed and sent two speakers through these disaffected
districts--only two, but each, in his way, a master.  The first of them, in order of time,
was Senator Roscoe Conkling, and he took as his subject the National Banking System.  This
had been for a considerable time one of the objects of special attack by uneasy and unsuccessful
people throughout the entire country.  As a matter of fact, the national banking system, created
during the Civil War by Secretary Chase and his advisers, was one of the most admirable expedients
ever devised in any country.  Up to the time of its establishment the whole country had suffered
enormously from the wretched currency supplied from the State banks.  Even in those States
where the greatest precaution was taken to insure its redemption all of it was, in time of
crisis or panic, fluctuating and much of it worthless.  But in other States the case was even
worse.  I can recall perfectly that through my boyhood and young manhood every merchant and
shopkeeper kept on his table what was called a ``bank-note detector,'' which, when any money
was tendered him, he was obliged to consult in order to know, first, whether the bill was a
counterfeit, as it frequently was; secondly, whether it was on a solvent bank; and thirdly,
if good, what discount should be deducted from the face of it.  Under this system bank-notes
varied in value from week to week, and even from day to day, with the result that all buying
and selling became a sort of gambling.

When, then, Mr. Chase established the new system of national banks so based that every bill-holder
had security for the entire amount which his note represented, so controlled that a bill issued
from any little bank in the remotest State, or even in the remotest corner of a Territory,
was equal to one issued by the richest bank in Wall Street, so engraved that counterfeiting
was practically impossible, there was an immense gain to every man, woman, and child in the
country.

To appreciate this gain one must have had experience of the older system.  I remember well
the panic of 1857, which arose while I was traveling in eastern and northern New England, and
that, arriving in the city of Salem, Massachusetts, having tendered, in payment of my hotel
bill, notes issued by a leading New York city bank, guaranteed under what was known as the
``Safety Fund System,'' they were refused.  The result was that I had to leave my wife at the
hotel, go to Boston, and there manage to get Massachusetts money.

But this was far short of the worst.  Professor Roberts of Cornell University once told me
that, having in those days collected a considerable debt in one of the Western States, he found
the currency so worthless that he attempted to secure New York funds, but that the rate of
exchange was so enormous that, as the only way of saving anything, he bought a large quantity
of cheap clothing, shipped it to the East, and sold it for what it would bring.

As to the way in which the older banking operations were carried on in some of the Western
States, Governor Felch of Michigan once gave me some of his experiences as a bank examiner,
and one of them especially amused me.  He said that he and a brother examiner made an excursion
through the State in a sleigh with a pair of good horses in order to inspect the various banks
established in remote villages and hamlets which had the power of issuing currency based upon
the specie contained in their vaults.  After visiting a few of these, and finding that each
had the amount of specie required by law, the examiners began to note a curious similarity
between the specie packages in these different banks, and before long their attention was drawn
to another curious fact, which was that wherever they went they were preceded by a sleigh drawn
by especially fleet horses.  On making a careful examination, they found that this sleigh bore
from bank to bank a number of kegs of specie sufficient to enable each bank in its turn to
show the examiners a temporary basis in hard money for its output of paper.

Such was the state of things which the national banks remedied, and the system had the additional
advantage of being elastic, so that any little community which needed currency had only to
combine its surplus capital and establish a bank of issue.

But throughout the country there were, as there will doubtless always be, a considerable number
of men who, not being able to succeed themselves, distrusted and disliked the successful. 
There was also a plentiful supply of demagogues skilful in appealing to the prejudices of the
ignorant, envious, or perverse, and as a result came a cry against the national banks.

In Mr. Conkling's Ithaca speech (1878), he argued the question with great ability and force.
He had a sledge- hammer way which broke down all opposition, and he exulted in it.  One of
his favorite tactics, which greatly amused his auditors, was to lead some prominent gainsayer
in his audience to interrupt him, whereupon, in the blandest way possible, he would invite
him to come forward, urge him to present his views, even help him to do so, and then, having
gradually entangled him in his own sophistries and made him ridiculous, the senator would come
down upon him with arguments--cogent, pithy, sarcastic--much like the fist of a giant upon
a mosquito.

In whatever town Mr. Conkling argued the question of the national banks, that subject ceased
to be a factor in politics: it was settled; his attacks upon the anti-bank demagogues annihilated
their arguments among thinking men, and his sarcasm made them ridiculous among unthinking men.
This was the sort of thing which he did best.  While utterly deficient in constructive power,
his destructive force was great indeed, and in this campaign it was applied, as it was not
always applied, for the advantage of the country.

The other great speaker in the campaign was General James A. Garfield, then a member of the
House of Repre- sentatives.  My acquaintance with him had begun several years before at Syracuse,
when my old school friend, his college mate, Charles Elliot Fitch, brought him into my library.
My collection of books was even at that date very large, and Garfield, being delighted with
it, soon revealed his scholarly qualities.  It happened that not long before this I had bought
in London several hundred volumes from the library left by the historian Buckle, very many
of them bearing copious annotations in his own hand.  Garfield had read Buckle's ``History
of Civilization in England'' with especial interest, and when I presented to him and discussed
with him some of these annotated volumes, there began a friendly relation between us which
ended only with his life.

I also met him under less favorable circumstances.  Happening to be in Washington at the revelation
of the Cr<e'>dit Mobilier operations, I found him in the House of Representatives, and evidently
in the depths of suffering.  An effort was making to connect him with the scandal, and while
everything I know of him convinces me that he was not dishonest, he had certainly been imprudent.
This he felt, and he asked me, in an almost heart-broken tone, if I really believed that this
had forever destroyed his influence in the country.  I answered that I believed nothing of
the kind; that if he came out in a straightforward, manly way, without any of the prevarication
which had so greatly harmed some others, he would not be injured, and the result showed that
this advice was good.

On our arrival at the great hall in Ithaca (October 28, 1878), we found floor and stage packed
in every part.  Never had a speaker a better audience.  There were present very many men of
all parties anxious to hear the currency question honestly discussed, and among them many of
the more thoughtful sort misled by the idea that a wrong had been done to the country in the
restoration of the currency to a sound basis; and there was an enormous attendance of students
from the university.

As Garfield began he showed the effects of fatigue from the many speeches he had been making
for weeks,--morning, noon, and night; but soon he threw himself heartily into the subject,
and of all the thousands of political speeches I have heard it was the most effective.  It
was eloquent, but it was far more than that; it was HONESTLY argumentative; there was no sophistry
of any sort; every subject was taken up fairly and every point dealt with thoroughly.  One
could see the supports of the Greenback party vanishing as he went on.  His manner was the
very opposite of Mr. Conkling's: it was kindly, hearty, as of neighbor with neighbor,--indeed,
every person present, even if greenbacker or demagogue, must have said within himself, ``This
man is a friend arguing with friends; he makes me his friend, and now speaks to me as such.''

The main line of his argument finished, there came something even finer; for, inspired by the
presence of the great mass of students, he ended his speech with an especial appeal to them.
Taking as his test the noted passage in the letter written by Macaulay to Henry Randall, the
biographer of Jefferson,--the letter in which Macaulay prophesied destruction to the American
Republic when poverty should pinch and discontent be wide-spread in the country, --he appealed
to these young men to see to it that this prophecy should not come true; he asked them to follow
in this, as in similar questions, their reason and not their prejudices, and from this he went
on with a statement of the motives which ought to govern them and the line they ought to pursue
in the effort to redeem their country.

Never was speech more successful.  It carried the entire audience, and left in that region
hardly a shred of the greenback theory.  When the election took place it was observed that
in those districts where Conkling and Garfield had spoken, the greenback heresy was annihilated,
while in other districts which had been counted as absolutely sure for the Republican party,
and to which, therefore, these orators had not been sent, there was a great increase in the
vote for currency inflation.

I have often alluded to this result as an answer to those who say that speaking produces no
real effect on the convictions of men regarding party matters.  Some speaking does not, but
there is a kind of speaking which does, and of this were these two masterpieces, so different
from each other in matter and manner, and yet converging upon the same points, intellectual
and moral.

Before I close regarding Garfield, it may be well to give a few more recollections of him.
The meeting ended, we drove to my house on the university grounds, and shortly before our arrival
he asked me, ``How did you like my speech?''  I answered:  ``Garfield, I have known you too
long and think too highly of you to flatter you; but I will simply say what I would say under
oath: it was the best speech I ever heard.  ``This utterance of mine was deliberate, expressing
my conviction, and he was evidently pleased with it.

Having settled down in front of the fire in my library, we began to discuss the political situation,
and his talk remains to me among the most interesting things of my life.  He said much regarding
the history of the currency question and his relations to it, and from this ran rapidly and
suggestively through a multitude of other questions and the relations of public men to them.
One thing which struck me was his judicially fair and even kindly estimates of men who differed
from him.  Very rarely did he speak harshly or sharply of any one, differing in this greatly
from Mr. Conkling, who, in all his conversations, and especially in one at that same house
not long before, seemed to consider men who differed from him as enemies of the human race.

Under Mr. Hayes, the successor of General Grant in the Presidency, I served first as a commissioner
at the Paris Exposition, and then as minister to Germany.  Both these services will be discussed
in the chapters relating to my diplomatic life, but I may refer briefly to my acquaintance
with him at this period.

I had met him but once previously, and that was during his membership of Congress when he came
to enter his son at Cornell.  I had then been most favorably impressed by his large, sincere,
manly way.  On visiting Washington to receive my instructions before going to Berlin, I saw
him several times, and at each meeting my respect for him was increased.  Driving to Arlington,
walking among the soldiers' graves there, standing in the portico of General Lee's former residence,
and viewing from the terrace the Capitol in the distance, he spoke very nobly of the history
we had both personally known, of the sacrifices it had required, and of the duties which it
now imposed.  At his dinner- table I heard him discuss with his Secretary of State, Mr. Evarts,
a very interesting question--the advisability of giving members of the cabinet seats in the
Senate and House of Representatives, as had been arranged in the constitution of the so-called
Confederate States; but of this I shall speak in another chapter.

It should further be said regarding Mr. Hayes that, while hardly any President was ever so
systematically denounced and depreciated, he was one of the truest and best men who has ever
held our Chief Magistracy.  I remember, just at the close of his administration, dining with
an eminent German statesman who said to me:  ``I have watched the course of your President
with more and more surprise.  We have been seeing constantly in our German newspapers extracts
from American journals holding up your President to contempt as an ignoramus, but more and
more I have seen that he is one of the most substantial, honest, and capable Presidents that
you have had.''

This opinion was amply justified by what I saw of Mr. Hayes after the close of his Presidency.
Twice I met him during conferences at Lake Mohonk, at which matters relating to the improvement
of the freedmen and Indians were discussed, and in each he took broad, strong, and statesmanlike
views based on thoughtful experience and permeated by honesty.

I also met him at a great public meeting at Cleveland, where we addressed some four thousand
people from the same platform, and again I was impressed by his manly, far-seeing grasp of
public questions.

As to my after relations with Garfield, I might speak of various pleasant interviews, but will
allude to just one incident which has a pathetic side.  During my first residence in Germany
as minister of the United States, I one day received a letter from him asking me to secure
for him the best editions of certain leading Greek and Latin classics, adding that it had long
been his earnest desire to re-read them, and that now, as he had been elected to the United
States Senate, he should have leisure to carry out his purpose.  I had hardly sent him what
he desired when the news came that he had been nominated to the Presidency, and so all his
dream of literary leisure vanished.  A few months later came the news of his assassination.

My term of service as minister in Berlin being ended, I arrived in America in September, 1881,
and, in accordance with custom, went to present my respects to the new President and his Secretary
of State.  They were both at Long Branch.  Mr. Blaine I saw and had with him a very interesting
conversation, but President Garfield I could not see.  His life was fast ebbing out, and a
week later, on Sunday morning, I heard the bells tolling and knew that his last struggle was over.

So closed a career which, in spite of some defects, was beautiful and noble.  Great hopes had
been formed regarding his Presidency, and yet, on looking back over his life, I have a strong
feeling that his assassination was a service rendered to his reputation.  I know from those
who had full information that during his campaign for the Presidency he had been forced to
make concessions and pledges which would have brought great trouble upon him had he lived through
his official term.  Gifted and good as he was, advantage had been taken of his kindly qualities,
and he would have had to pay the penalty.

It costs me a pang to confess my opinion that the administration of Mr. Arthur, a man infinitely
his inferior in nearly all the qualities which men most justly admire, was far better than
the administration which Mr Garfield would have been allowed to give to the country.

Upon my return to the university I was asked by my fellow-citizens of Ithaca in general, as
also by the university faculty and students, to give the public address at the celebration
of President Garfield's funeral.  This I did and never with a deeper feeling of loss.

One thing in the various tributes to him had struck me painfully:  Throughout the whole country
his career was constantly referred to in funeral addresses as showing how a young American
under all the disadvantages of poverty could rise to the highest possible position.  I have
always thought that such statements, as they are usually presented, are injurious to the character
and lowering to the aspirations of young men.  I took pains, therefore, to show that while
Garfield had risen under the most discouraging circumstances from complete poverty, his rise
was due to something other than mere talent and exertion --that it was the result of talent
and exertion originating in noble instincts and directed to worthy ends.  Garfield's life proves
this abundantly, and whatever may have been his temporary weakness under the fearful pressure
brought upon him toward the end of his career, these instincts and purposes remained his main
guiding influences from first to last.

CHAPTER XII

ARTHUR, CLEVELAND, AND BLAINE--1881-1884

The successor of Garfield, President Arthur, I had met frequently in my old days at Albany.
He was able, and there never was the slightest spot upon his integrity; but in those early
days nobody dreamed that he was to attain any high distinction.  He was at that time charged
with the main military duties under the governor; later he became collector of the port of
New York, and in both positions showed himself honest and capable.  He was lively, jocose,
easy-going, with little appearance of devotion to work, dashing off whatever he had to do with
ease and accuracy.  At various dinner-parties and social gatherings, and indeed at sundry State
conventions, where I met him, he seemed, more than anything else, a bon vivant, facile and
good-natured.

His nomination to the Vice-Presidency, which on the death of Garfield led him to the Presidency,
was very curious, and an account of it given me by an old friend who had previously been a
member of the Garfield cabinet and later an ambassador in Europe, was as follows:

After the defeat of the ``Stalwarts,'' who had fought so desperately for the renomination of
General Grant at the Chicago Convention of 1880, the victorious side of the convention determined
to concede to them, as an olive- branch, the Vice-Presidency, and with this intent my informant
and a number of other delegates who had been especially active in preventing Grant's renomination
went to the room of the New York delegation, which had taken the leading part in his support,
knocked at the door, and called for Mr. Levi P. Morton, previously a member of Congress, and,
several years later, Vice-President of the United States and Governor of New York.  Mr. Morton
came out into the corridor, and thereupon the visitors said to him, ``We wish to give the Vice-Presidency
to New York as a token of good will, and you are the man who should take it; don't fail to
accept it.''  Mr. Morton answered that he had but a moment before, in this conference of his
delegation, declined the nomination.  At this the visitors said, ``Go back instantly and tell
them that you have reconsidered and will accept; we will see that the convention nominates
you.''  Mr. Morton started to follow this advice, but was just too late: while he was outside
the door he had been taken at his word, the place which he had declined had been offered to
General Arthur, he had accepted it, and so the latter and not Mr. Morton became President of
the United States.

Up to the time when the Presidency devolved upon him, General Arthur had shown no qualities
which would have suggested him for that high office, and I remember vividly that when the news
of Garfield's assassination arrived in Berlin, where I was then living as minister, my first
overwhelming feeling was not, as I should have expected, horror at the death of Garfield, but
stupefaction at the elevation of Arthur.  But the change in him on taking the Presidency was
amazing.  Up to that time he had been known as one of Mr. Conkling's henchmen, though of the
better sort.  As such he had held the collectorship of the port of New York, and as such, during
his occupancy of the Vice-Presidency, he had visited Albany and done his best, though in vain,
to secure Mr. Conkling's renomination; but immediately on his elevation to the Presidency all
this was changed, and there is excellent authority for the statement that when Mr. Conkling
wished him to continue, as President, in the subservient  position which he had taken as Vice-President,
Mr. Arthur had refused, and when taxed with ingratitude he said:  ``No.  For the Vice-Presidency
I was indebted to Mr. Conkling, but for the Presidency of the United States my debt is to the
Almighty.''

The new President certainly showed this spirit in his actions.  Rarely has there been a better
or more dignified administration; the new Secretary of State, Mr. Frelinghuysen, was in every
respect fitted for his office, and the other men whom Mr. Arthur summoned about him were satisfactory.

Although I had met him frequently, and indeed was on cordial terms with him before his elevation
to the Presidency, I never met him afterward.  During his whole administration my duties in
connection with Cornell University completely absorbed me.  I was one of the last university
presidents who endeavored to unite professorial with executive duties, and the burden was heavy.
The university had made at that period its first great sale of lands, and this involved a large
extension of its activity; the famous Fiske lawsuit, involving nearly two millions of dollars,
had come on; there was every sort of detail requiring attention at the university itself, and
addresses must be given in various parts of the country, more especially before alumni associations,
to keep them in proper relations with the institution; so that I was kept completely out of
politics, was hardly ever in Washington during this period, and never at the White House.

The only matter which connected me with politics at all was my conviction, which deepened more
and more, as to the necessity of reform in the civil service; and on this subject I conferred
with Mr. Dorman B. Eaton, Mr. John Jay, and others at various times, and prepared an article
for the ``North American Review'' in which I presented not only the general advantages of civil
service reform, but its claims upon men holding public office.  My main effort was to show,
what I believed then and believe still more strongly now, that, evil as the whole spoils system
was in its effects on the country, it was quite as vexatious and fertile in miseries and disappointments
to political leaders.  In the natural order of things, where there is no spoils system, and
where the bestowal of offices is not in the hands of senators, representatives, and the like,
these senators and representatives, when once elected, have time to discharge their duties,
and with very little pains can maintain their hold upon their constituents as long as they
please.  The average man, when he has cast his vote for a candidate and sees that candidate
elected, takes an interest in him; the voter, feeling that he has, in a certain sense, made
an investment in the man thus elected, is naturally inclined to regard him favorably and to
continue him in office.  But with the spoils system, no sooner is a candidate elected than,
as has been well observed, for every office which he bestows he makes ``ninety-nine enemies
and one ingrate.''  The result is that the unsuccessful candidates for appointment return home
bent on taking revenge by electing another person at the end of the present incumbent's term,
and hence comes mainly the wretched system of rapid rotation in office, which has been in so
many ways injurious to our country.

This and other points I urged, but the evil was too deeply seated.  Time was required to remove
all doubts which were raised.  I found with regret that my article had especially incurred
the bitter dislike of my old adviser, Thurlow Weed, the great friend of Mr. Seward and former
autocrat of Whig and Republican parties in the State of New York.  Being entirely of the old
school, he could not imagine the government carried on without the spoils system.

On one of my visits to New York in the interest of this reform, I met at dinner Mr. William
M. Evarts, then at the head of the American bar, who had been Secretary of State under Mr.
Hayes, and who was afterward senator from the State of New York.  I had met him frequently
before and heard much of his brilliant talk, and especially his admirable stories of all sorts.

But on this occasion Mr. Evarts surpassed himself.  I recall a series of witty repartees and
charming illustrations, but will give merely one of the latter.  Something was said of people's
hobbies, whereupon Mr. Evarts said that a gentleman visiting a lunatic asylum went into a room
where several patients were assembled, and saw one of them astride a great dressing-trunk,
holding fast to a rope drawn through the handle, seesawing and urging it forward as if it were
a horse at full speed.  The visitor, to humor the patient, said, ``That 's a fine horse you
are riding.''  ``Why, no,'' said the patient, ``this is not a horse.''  ``What is it, then?''
asked the visitor.  The patient answered, ``It 's a hobby.''  ``But,'' said the visitor, ``what
's the difference between a horse and a hobby?''  ``Why,'' said the patient, ``there 's an
enormous difference; a horse you can get off from, a hobby you can't.''

As to civil-service reform, my efforts to convert leading Republicans by personal appeals were
continued, and in some cases with good results; but I found it very difficult to induce party
leaders to give up the immediate and direct exercise of power which the spoils system gave
them.  Especially was it difficult with sundry editors of leading papers and party managers;
but time has wrought upon them, and some of those who were most obdurate in those days are
doing admirable work in these.  The most serious effort I ever made was to convert my old friend
and classmate, Thomas C. Platt, the main manager and, as he was called, the ``boss'' of the
Republican party in the State of New York, a man of great influence throughout the Union. 
He treated me civilly, but evidently considered me a ``crank.''  He, like Mr. Thurlow Weed,
was unable to understand how a party could be conducted without the promise of spoils for the
victors; but I have lived to see him take a better view.  As I write these lines word comes
that his influence is thrown in favor of the bill for reforming the civil service of the State
of New York, championed by my nephew, Mr. Horace White, a member of the present State Senate,
and favored by Colonel Roosevelt, the governor.

It was upon a civil-service errand in Philadelphia that I met, after a long separation, my
old friend and classmate Wayne MacVeagh.  He had been minister to Constantinople, Attorney-General
in the Garfield cabinet, and, at a later period, ambassador at Rome.  At this period he had
returned to practise his profession in Philadelphia, and at his hospitable table I met a number
of interesting men, and on one occasion sat next an eminent member of the Philadelphia bar,
Judge Biddle.  A subject happened to come up in which I had taken great interest, namely, American
laxity in the punishment of crime, and especially the crime of murder, whereupon Judge Biddle
dryly remarked:  ``The taking of life, after due process of law, as a penalty for murder, seems
to be the only form of taking life to which the average American has any objection.''

In the autumn of 1882 came a tremendous reverse for the Republican party.  There was very wide-spread
disgust at the apparent carelessness of those in power regarding the redemption of pledges
for reforms.  Judge Folger, who had been nominated to the governorship of New York, had every
qualification for the place, but an opinion had widely gained ground that President Arthur,
who had called Judge Folger into his cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury, was endeavoring
to interfere with the politics of the State, and to put Judge Folger into the governor's chair.
There was a suspicion that ``the machine'' was working too easily and that some of its wheels
were of a very bad sort.  All this, coupled with slowness in redeeming platform pledges, brought
on the greatest disaster the Republican party had ever experienced.  In November, 1882, Mr.
Cleveland was elected governor by the most enormous majority ever known, and the defeat extended
not only through the State of New York, but through a number of other States.  It was bitter
medicine, but, as it afterward turned out, very salutary.

Just after this election, being in New York to deliver an address before the Geographical Society
on the subject of ``The New Germany'' (December 27, 1882), I met a number of distinguished
men in politics at the table of General Cullom, formerly the head of the West Point Academy.
There was much interesting talk, and some significant political facts were brought out; but
the man who interested me most was my next neighbor at table, General McDowell.

He was an old West Pointer, and had planned the first battle of Bull Run, when our troops were
overwhelmingly defeated, the capital put in peril, and the nation humiliated at home and abroad.
There is no doubt now that McDowell's plans were excellent, but the troops were raw volunteers,
with little knowledge of their officers and less confidence in them; and, as a result, when,
like the men in the ``Biglow Papers,'' they found ``why bagonets is peaked,'' there was a panic,
just as there was in the first battles of the French Revolution.  Every man distrusted every
other man; there was a general outcry, and all took flight.  I remember doing what I could
in those days to encourage those who looked with despair on the flight from the battle-field
of Bull Run, by pointing out to them exactly similar panics and flights in the first battles
of the soldiers who afterward became the Grande Arm<e'>e and marched triumphantly over Europe.

But of one thing the American people felt certain in those days, and that was that at Bull
Run ``General McDowell was drunk.''  This assertion was loudly made, widely spread, never contradicted,
and generally believed.  I must confess now with shame that I was one of those who were so
simple-minded as to take this newspaper story as true.  On this occasion, sitting next General
McDowell, I noticed that he drank only water, taking no wine of any sort; and on my calling
his attention to the wines of our host as famous, he answered, ``No doubt; but I never take
anything but water.''  I answered, ``General, how long has that been your rule?''  He replied,
``Always since my boy- hood.  At that time I was sent to a military school at Troyes in France,
and they gave us so much sour wine that I vowed that if I ever reached America again no drink
but water should ever pass my lips, and I have kept to that resolution.''

Of course this was an enormous surprise to me, but shortly afterward I asked various army officers
regarding the matter, and their general answer was:  ``Why, of course; all of us know that
McDowell is the only officer in the army who never takes anything but water.''

And this was the man who was widely believed by the American people to have lost the battle
of Bull Run because he was drunk!

Another remembrance of this period is a dinner with Mr. George Jones, of the ``New York Times,''
who gave me a full account of the way in which his paper came into possession of the documents
revealing the Tammany frauds, and how, despite enormous bribes and bitter threats, the ``Times''
persisted in publishing the papers, and so brought the Tweed r<e'>gime to destruction.

Of political men, the most noted whom I met in those days was Governor Cleveland.  He was little
known, but those of us who had been observant of public affairs knew that he had shown sturdy
honesty and courage, first as sheriff of the county of Erie, and next as mayor of Buffalo,
and that, most wonderful of all, he had risen above party ties and had appointed to office
the best men he could find, even when some of them were earnest Republicans.

In June of 1883 he visited the university as an ex-officio trustee, laid the corner-stone of
the chapel above the remains of Ezra Cornell, and gave a brief address.  It was short, but
surprised me by its lucidity and force.  This being done, I conducted him to the opening of
the new chemical laboratory.  He was greatly interested in it, and it was almost pathetic to
note his evident regret that he had never had the advantage of such instruction.  I learned
afterward that he was classically prepared to enter college, but that his father, a poor country
clergyman, being unable to defray his expenses, the young man determined to strike out for
himself, and so began one of the best careers known in the history of American politics.

At this same commencement of Cornell University appeared another statesman, Justin S. Morrill
of Vermont, author of the Morrill Bill of 1862, which, by a grant of public lands, established
a college for scientific, technical, military, and general education in every State and Territory
in the Union.  It was one of the most beneficent measures ever proposed in any country.  Mr.
Morrill had made a desperate struggle for his bill, first as representative and afterward as
senator.  It was twice vetoed by President Buchanan, who had at his back all the pro-slavery
doctrinaires of his time.  They distrusted, on various accounts, any system for promoting advanced
education, and especially for its promotion by the government; but he won the day, and on this
occasion our trustees, at my suggestion, invited him to be present at the unveiling of his
portrait by Huntington, which had been painted by order of the trustees for the library.

He was evidently gratified at the tribute, and all who met him were pleased with him.  The
time will come, I trust, when his statue will stand in the capital of the Union as a memorial
of one of the most useful and far-seeing statesmen our country has known.

A week later I addressed my class at Yale on ``The Message of the Nineteenth Century to the
Twentieth.''  In this address my endeavor was to indicate the lines on which reforms of various
sorts must be instituted, and along which a better future for the country could be developed,
and it proved a far greater success than I had expected.  It was widely circulated in various
forms, first in the newspapers, then as a pamphlet, and finally as a kind of campaign document.

From July to September of that year (1883) I was obliged to be in Europe looking after matters
pertaining to the university lawsuit, and, on returning, was called upon to address a large
meeting of Germans at the funeral of a member of the German parliament who had died suddenly
while on a visit to our country--Edward Lasker.  I had known him well in Berlin as a man of
great ability and high character, and felt it a duty to accept the invitation to give one of
the addresses at his funeral.  The other address was given by my friend of many years, Carl
Schurz; and these addresses, with some others made at the time, did, I suppose, something to
bring to me the favor of my German fellow-citizens in New York.

Still, my main thoughts were given to Cornell University.  This was so evident that on one
occasion a newspaper of my own party, in an article hostile to those who spoke of nominating
me for the governorship, declared:  ``Mr. White's politics and religion are Cornell University.''
But suddenly, in 1884, I was plunged into politics most unexpectedly.

As has been usual with every party in the State of New York from the beginning of the government,
the Republicans were divided between two factions, one supporting Mr. Arthur for the Presidency,
the other hoping to nominate Mr. Blaine.  These two factions thus standing opposed to each
other, Mr. Theodore Roosevelt, with a few others in various parts of the State, started an
independent movement, with the result that the two main divisions of the party, detesting each
other more than they detested the independents, supported the latter and elected independent
candidates as delegates at large to the approaching Republican Convention at Chicago.  Without
any previous notice, I was made one of these delegates.  My position was therefore perfectly
independent; I was at liberty to vote for whom I pleased.  Although my acquaintance with Mr.
Blaine was but slight, I had always felt strong admiration and deep attachment for him.  As
Secretary of State, during a part of my residence in Berlin, he had stood by me in a contest
regarding the double standard of value in which I had feared that he might waver; and, far
more than all this, his general political course had caused me, as it had caused myriads of
others, to feel grateful to him.

But I had learned some things regarding his vulnerability in a presidential campaign which
made me sure that it would be impossible to elect him.  An impartial but kindly judge had,
some months before, while expressing great admiration for Mr. Blaine, informed me of some transactions
which, while they showed no turpitude, revealed a carelessness in doing business which would
certainly be brought to bear upon him with great effect in a heated political campaign.  It
was clear to me that, if nominated, he would be dragged through the mire, the Republican party
defeated, and the country at large besmirched in the eyes of the whole world.

Arrived at Chicago June 2, 1884, I found the political caldron seething and bubbling.  Various
candidates were earnestly supported, and foremost of all, President Arthur and Mr. Blaine.
The independent delegates, led by Theodore Roosevelt and George William Curtis, and the Massachusetts
delegation, headed by Governor Long, Senator Hoar, and Henry Cabot Lodge, decided to support
Senator Edmunds of Vermont.  No man stood higher than he for integrity as well as for statesmanlike
qualities and legal abilities; no one had more thoroughly the respect of thinking men from
one end of the country to the other.

The delegates having arrived in the great hall where the convention was sitting, a number of
skirmishes took place, and a momentary victory was gained by the Independents in electing,
as temporary chairman, a colored delegate of great ability from one of the Southern States,
over Mr. Powell Clayton of Arkansas, who, though he had suffered bitterly and struggled bravely
to maintain the Union during the Civil War, was supposed to be identified with doubtful methods
in Southern politics.

But as it soon became evident that the main tide was for Mr. Blaine, various efforts were made
to concentrate the forces opposed to him upon some candidate who could command more popular
support than Mr. Edmunds.  An earnest effort was made in favor of John Sherman of Ohio, and
his claims were presented most sympathetically to me by my old Cornell student, Governor Foraker.
Of all the candidates before the convention I would have preferred to vote for Mr. Sherman.
He had borne the stress of the whole anti-slavery combat, and splendidly; he had rendered great
services to the nation as a statesman and financier, and was in every respect capable and worthy.
Unfortunately there were too many old enmities against him, and it was clear that the anti-Blaine
vote could not be concentrated on him.  My college classmate, Mr. Knevals of New York, then
urged me to vote for President Arthur.  This, too, would have been a fairly satisfactory solution
of the question, for President Arthur had surprised every one by the excellence of his administration.
Still there was a difficulty in his case: the Massachusetts delegates could not be brought
to support him; it was said that he had given some of their leaders mortal offense by his hostility
to the River and Harbor Bill.  A final effort was then made by the Independents to induce General
Sherman to serve, but he utterly refused, and so the only thing left was to let matters take
their course.  All chance of finding any one to maintain the desired standard of American political
life against the supporters of Mr. Blaine had failed.

As we came into the convention on the morning of the day fixed for making the nominations,
I noticed that the painted portraits of Washington and Lincoln, previously on either side of
the president's chair, had been removed.  Owing to the tumultuous conduct of the crowd in the
galleries, it had been found best to remove things of an ornamental nature from the walls,
for some of these ornaments had been thrown down, to the injury of those sitting below.

On my calling Curtis's attention to this removal of the two portraits, he said:  ``Yes, I have
noticed it, and I am glad of it.  Those weary eyes of Lincoln have been upon us here during
our whole stay, and I am glad that they are not to see the work that is to be done here to-day.''
It was a curious exhibition of sentiment, a revelation of the deep poetic feeling which was
so essential an element in Curtis's noble character.

The various candidates were presented by prominent speakers, and most of the speeches were
thoroughly good; but unquestionably the best, from an oratorical point of view, was made on
the nomination of Mr. Edmunds by Governor Long of Massachusetts.  Both as to matter and manner
it was perfection; was felt to be so by the convention; and was sincerely applauded even by
the majority of those who intended to vote for Mr. Blaine.

There was one revelation here, as there had been at many conventions previously, which could
not fail to produce a discouraging impression upon every thoughtful American.  The number of
delegates and substitutes sent to the convention amounted in all to a few hundreds, but these
were almost entirely lost in the immense crowd of spectators, numbering, it was said, from
twelve to fifteen thousand.  In the only conventions which I had ever before seen, including
those at Baltimore and Philadelphia and various State conventions of New York, the delegates
had formed the majority of those in the hall; but in this great ``wigwam'' there were times
in which the most important part was played by the spectators.  At some moments this overwhelming
mob, which encircled the seats of the delegates on the floor and rose above them on all sides
in the galleries, endeavored to sweep the convention in the direction of its own whims and
fancies.  From time to time the convention ceased entirely to be a deliberative body.  As the
names of certain favorite candidates were called, or as certain popular allusions were made
in speeches, this mob really took possession of the convention and became almost frantic. 
I saw many women jumping up and down, dishevelled and hysterical, and some men acting in much
the same way.  It was absolutely unworthy of a convention of any party, a disgrace to decency,
and a blot upon the reputation of our country.  I am not alone in this opinion.  More than
once during my official life in Europe I have heard the whole thing lamented by leading liberal
statesmen as bringing discredit on all democratic government.

There were times indeed when the galleries sought to howl down those who were taking part in
the convention, and this was notably the case during a very courageous speech by Mr. Roosevelt.

I may mention, in passing, that the country then received the first revelation of that immense
pluck and vigor which have since carried Mr. Roosevelt through so many political conflicts,
borne him through all the dangers of the Santiago campaign, placed him in the governor's chair
of the State of New York and in the Vice-Presidency of the United States, leading to the Presidency,
which he holds as I revise these lines.  At the Chicago Convention, though he was in a small
minority, nothing daunted him.  As he stood upon a bench and addressed the president, there
came from the galleries on all sides a howl and yell, ``Sit down! sit down!'' with whistling
and cat-calls.  All to no purpose; the mob might as well have tried to whistle down a bronze
statue.  Roosevelt, slight in build as he then was, was greater than all that crowd combined.
He stood quietly through it all, defied the mob, and finally obliged them to listen to him.

Toward the end of the convention this mob showed itself even worse than before.  It became
evident that large parts of the galleries were packed in the interest of the local candidate
for the Vice-Presidency, General Logan, and this mass of onlookers did their best to put down
all delegates supporting any other.

No more undemocratic system was ever devised.  The tendency of this ``wigwam'' plan of holding
great meetings or conventions is to station a vast mob of sensation- seeking men and women
in the galleries between the delegates and the country at large.  The inevitable consequence
is that the ``fog-horns'' of a convention play the most ef- fective part, and that they seek
mainly the applause of the galleries.  The country at large is for the moment forgotten.  The
controlling influence is the mob, mainly from the city where the convention is held.  The whole
thing is a monstrous abuse.  Attention has been called to it by thinking Democrats as well
as by Republicans, who have seen in it a sign of deterioration which has produced many unfortunate
consequences and will produce more.  It is the old story of the French Convention overawed
by a gallery mob and mistaking the mob whimsies of a city for the sober judgment of the country.
One result of it the whole nation saw when, in more recent years, a youthful member of Congress,
with no training to fit him for executive duties, was suddenly, by the applause of such a mob,
imposed upon the Democratic National Convention as a candidate for the Presidency.  Those who
recall the way in which ``the boy orator of the Platte'' became the Democratic candidate for
the Chief Magistracy over seventy millions of people, on account of a few half-mawkish, half-
blasphemous phrases in a convention speech, can bear witness to the necessity of a reform in
this particular--a reform which will forbid a sensation-seeking city mob to usurp the function
of the whole people of our Republic.

In spite of these mob hysterics, the Independents persisted to the last in supporting Mr. Edmunds
for the first place, but in voting for the second place they separated.  For the Vice-Presidency
I cast the only vote which was thrown for my old Cornell student, Mr. Foraker, previously governor
of Ohio, and since that time senator from that State.

In spite of sundry ``defects of his qualities,'' which I freely recognized, I regarded him
as a fearless, upright, downright, straightforward man of the sort who must always play a great
part in American politics.

It was at this convention that I saw for the first time Mr. McKinley of Ohio, and his quiet
self-possession in the midst of the various whirls and eddies and storms caused me to admire
him greatly.  Calm, substantial, quick to see a good point, strong to maintain it, he was evidently
a born leader of men.  His speeches were simple, clear, forcible, and aided at times in rescuing
the self-respect of the body.

This Republican convention having adjourned, the National Democratic Convention met soon afterward
in the same place and nominated Grover Cleveland of New York.  He was a man whom I greatly
respected.  As already stated, his career as sheriff of Erie County, as mayor of Buffalo, and
as governor of the State of New York had led me to admire him.  He had seemed utterly incapable
of making any bid for mob support; there had appeared not the slightest germ of demagogism
in him; he had refused to be a mere partizan tool and had steadily stood for the best ideals
of government.  As governor he showed the same qualities which had won admiration during his
previous career as sheriff and mayor.  He made as many appointments as he could without regard
to political considerations, and it was remarked with wonder that when a number of leading
Democratic ``workers'' and ``wheel-horses'' came to the executive chamber in Albany in order
to dictate purely partizan appointments, he virtually turned them out of the room.  Most amazing
thing of all, he had vetoed a bill reducing the fare on the elevated railroads of New York,
in the face of the earnest advice of partizans who assured him that by doing so he would surely
array against him the working-classes of that city and virtually annihilate his political future.
To this his answer was that whatever his sympathies for the working-people might be, he could
not, as an honest man, allow such a bill to pass, and, come what might, he would not.  He had
also dared, quietly but firmly, to resist the chief ``boss'' of his party in New York City,
and he had consequently to brave the vials of Celtic wrath.  The scenes at the convention which
nominated him were stirring, and an eminent Western delegate struck a chord in the hearts of
thousands of Republicans as well as Democrats when he said, ``We love him for the enemies he
has made.''  Had it been a question simply between men, great numbers of us who voted for Mr.
Blaine would have voted for Mr. Cleveland; but whatever temptation I might be subjected to
in the matter was overcome by one fact:  Mr. Cleveland was too much like the Trojan horse,
for he bore with him a number of men who, when once brought into power, were sure to labor
hard to undo everything that he would endeavor to accomplish, and his predestined successor
in the governorship of the State of New York was one of those whom I looked upon as especially
dangerous.

Therefore it was, that, after looking over the ground, I wrote an open letter to Mr. Theodore
Roosevelt and other Independents, giving the reasons why those of us who had supported Mr.
Edmunds should now support Mr. Blaine, and in this view Mr. Roosevelt, with a large number
of our Independent friends, agreed.

I had, however, small hopes.  It was clear to me that Mr. Blaine had little chance of being
elected; that, in fact, he was too heavily weighted with the transactions which Mr. Pullman
had revealed to me some months before the beginning of the convention.

But I made an effort to commit him to the only policy which could save him.  For, having returned
to the university, I wrote William Walter Phelps, an old friend, who had been his chief representative
at Chicago, an earnest letter stating that there seemed to me but one chance of rallying to
Mr. Blaine's support the very considerable body of disaffected Republicans in the State of
New York; that, almost without exception, they were ardent believers in a reform of the civil
service; and that an out-and-out earnest declaration in favor of it by our presidential candidate
might do much to propitiate them.  I reminded Mr. Phelps of the unquestioned evils of the ``spoils
system,'' and said that Mr. Blaine must surely have often observed them, suffered under pressure
from them, and felt that something should be done to remedy them; and that if he would now
express his conviction to this effect, taking strong ground in favor of the reform and basing
his utterances on his experiences as a statesman, it would, in my mind, do much to save the
State of New York for the Republicans.

After writing this letter, feeling that it might seem to Mr. Phelps and to Mr. Blaine himself
very presuming for a man who had steadily opposed them at Chicago thus to volunteer advice,
I laid it aside.  But it happened that I had been chosen one of the committee of delegates
to go to Maine to apprise Mr. Blaine formally of his nomination, and it also happened that
my old student and friend, Judge Foraker, was another member of the committee.  It was impossible
for me to go to Maine, since the commencement of the university, at which I was bound to preside,
came on the day appointed for Mr. Blaine's reception of the committee at Bangor; but Judge
Foraker having stopped over at the university to attend a meeting of the trustees as an alumni
member of that body, I mentioned this letter to him.  He asked to see it, and, having read
it, asked to be allowed to take it with him.  I consented, and heard nothing more from him
on the subject; but the following week, at the Yale commencement, while sitting with Mr. Evarts
and Judge Shipman to award prizes in the law department, I saw, looking toward me over the
heads of the audience in the old Centre Church, my friend Frederick William Holls of New York,
and it was evident from his steady gaze that he had something to say.  The award of prizes
having been made and the audience dismissed, Mr. Holls met me and said:  ``Mr. Blaine will
adopt your suggestion in his letter of acceptance.''  Both of us were overjoyed.  It looked
like a point scored not only for the Republican party, but for the cause which we both had
so deeply at heart.

But as the campaign went on it was more and more evident that this concession, which I believe
he would have adhered to had he been elected, was to be in vain.

It was perhaps, on the whole, and on both sides, the vilest political campaign ever waged.
Accusations were made against both candidates which should have forever brought contempt on
the men who made them.  Nothing could have been further from the wish of either candidate than
that such accusations should be made against his opponent, but each was powerless: the vile
flood of slander raged on.  But I am glad here to recall the fact that when, at a later period,
one of the worst inventors of slander against Mr. Blaine sought reward in the shape of office
from President Cleveland, he was indignantly spurned.

In politics I took very little part.  During the summer my main thoughts were directed toward
a controversy before the Board of Regents, in regard to the system of higher education in the
State of New York, with my old friend President Anderson of Rochester, who had vigorously attacked
some ideas which seemed to me essential to any proper development of university education in
America; and this was hardly finished when I was asked to take part in organizing the American
Historical Association at Saratoga, and to give the opening address.  This, with other pursuits
of an academic nature, left me little time for the political campaign.

But there occurred one little incident to which I still look back with amusement.  My old friends
and constituents in Syracuse had sent me a general invitation to come over from the university
and preside at some one of their Republican mass-meetings.  My answer was that as to the ``hack
speakers'' of the campaign, with their venerable gags, stale jokes, and nauseating slanders,
I had no desire to hear them, and did not care to sit on the platform with them; but that when
they had a speaker to whom I cared to listen I would gladly come.  The result was that one
day I received a letter inviting me to preside over a mass-meeting at Syracuse, at which Mr.
McKinley was to make the speech.  I accepted gladly and on the appointed evening arrived at
the Syracuse railway station.  There I found the mayor of the city ready to take me in his
carriage to the hall where the meeting was to be held; but we had hardly left the station when
he said to me:  ``Mr. White, I am very sorry, but Mr. McKinley has been de- layed and we have
had to get another speaker.''  I was greatly disappointed, and expressed my feelings somewhat
energetically, when the mayor said:  ``But this speaker is really splendid; he carries all
before him; he is a thorough Kentucky orator.''  My answer was that I knew the breed but too
well, and that if I had known that Mr. McKinley was not to come I certainly would not have
left my work at the university.  By this time we had arrived at the door of the Globe Hotel,
whence the speaker entered the carriage.  He was a tall, sturdy Kentuckian, and his appearance
and manner showed that he had passed a very convivial day with the younger members of the committee
appointed to receive him.

His first words on entering the carriage were not very reassuring.  No sooner had I been introduced
to him than he asked where he could get a glass of brandy.  ``For,'' said he, ``without a good
drink just before I go on the platform I can't make a speech.''  I attempted to quiet him and
to show him the difficulties in the case.  I said:  ``Colonel ----, you have been with our
young men here all day, and no doubt have had a fairly good time; but in our meetings here
there is just now need of especial care.  You will have in your audience to-night a large number
of the more sedate and conservative citizens of Syracuse, church members, men active in the
various temperance societies, and the like.  There never was a campaign when men were in greater
doubt; great numbers of these people have not yet made up their minds how they will vote, and
the slightest exhilaration on your part may cost us hundreds of votes.''  He answered:  ``That's
all very well, but the simple fact is that I am here to make a speech, and I can't make it
unless I have a good drink beforehand.''  I said nothing more, but, as he still pressed the
subject on the mayor and the other member of the committee, I quietly said to them as I left
the carriage:  ``If that man drinks anything more before speaking, I will not go on the stage
with him, and the reason why I don't will speedily be made known.''  The mayor reassured me,
and we all went together into the large room adjoining the stage, I keeping close watch over
the orator, taking pains to hold him steadily in conversation, introducing as many leading
men of the town to him as possible, thus preventing any opportunity to carry out his purpose
of taking more strong drink, and to my great satisfaction he had no opportunity to do so before
we were summoned into the hall.

Arrived there, I made my speech, and then the orator of the evening arose.  But just before
he began to speak he filled from a water-pitcher a large glass, and drank it off.  My thought
at the moment was that this would dilute some of the stronger fluids he had absorbed during
the day and cool him down somewhat.  He then went on in a perfectly self-possessed way, betrayed
not the slightest effect of drinking, and made a most convincing and effective speech, replete
with wit and humor; yet, embedded in his wit and humor and rollicking fun, were arguments appealing
to the best sentiments of his hearers.  The speech was in every way a success; at its close
I congratulated him upon it, and was about to remind him that he had done very well on his
glass of cold water, when he suddenly said to me:  ``Mr. White, you see that it was just as
I told you: if I had n't taken that big glass of gin from the pitcher just before I started,
I could not have made any speech.''

``All 's well that ends well,'' and, though the laugh was at my expense, the result was not
such as to make me especially unhappy.

But this campaign of 1884 ended as I had expected.  Mr. Cleveland was elected to the Presidency.

Of the favorable impression made upon me by his career as Governor of New York I have already
spoken, and shall have occasion to speak presently of his Presidency.  The renewal of our acquaintance
even increased my respect for him.  He was evidently a strong, honest man, trying to do his
duty under difficulties.

I also met again Mr. Cleveland's opponent in the previous campaign--Mr. Blaine.  Calling on
Mr. William Walter Phelps, then in Congress, whom I had known as minister of the United States
at Vienna, and who was afterward my successor at Berlin, I made some reference to Mr. Blaine,
when Mr. Phelps said:  ``Why don't you go and call upon him?''  I answered that it might be
embarrassing to both of us, to which he replied:  ``I don't think so.  In spite of your opposition
to him at Chicago, were I in your place I would certainly go to his house and call upon him.''
That afternoon I took this advice, and when I returned to the hotel Mr. Blaine came with me,
talking in a most interesting way.  He spoke of my proposed journey to Virginia, and discussed
Jefferson and Hamilton, admiring both, but Jefferson the most.  As to his own working habits,
he said that he rose early, did his main work in the morning, and never did any work in the
evening; that, having been brought up in strongly Sabbatarian notions during his boyhood in
Pennsylvania, he had ever since, from the force of habit, reserved Sunday as a day of complete
rest.  Speaking of the customs in Pennsylvania at that time, he said that not even a walk for
exercise was allowed, and nothing was ever cooked on the sacred day.

I met him afterward on various occasions, and could not but admire him.  At a dinner-party
he was vexatiously badgered by a very bumptious professor, who allowed himself to speak in
a rather offensive manner of ideas which Mr. Blaine represented; and the quiet but decisive
way in which the latter disposed of his pestering interlocutor was worthy of all praise.

Mr. Blaine was certainly the most fascinating man I have ever known in politics.  No wonder
that so many Republicans in all parts of the country seemed ready to give their lives to elect
him.  The only other public man in the United States whose personality had ever elicited such
sympathy and devotion was Henry Clay.  Perhaps his nearest friend was Mr. Phelps, to whom I
have referred above,--one of the best, truest, and most winning men I have ever known.  He
had been especially devoted to Mr. Blaine, with whom he had served in Congress, and it was
understood that if the latter had been elected Mr. Phelps would have been his Secretary of State.

Mr. Phelps complained to me, half seriously, half jocosely, of what is really a crying abuse
in the United States --namely, that there is no proper reporting of the proceedings of the
Houses of Congress in the main journals of the country which can enable the people at large
to form any just idea as to how their representatives are conducting the public business. 
He said:  ``I may make a most careful speech on any important subject before Congress and it
will not be mentioned in the New York papers, but let me make a joke and it will be published
all over the United States.  Yesterday, on a wager, I tried an experiment:  I made two poor
little jokes during a short talk in the House, and here they are in the New York papers of
this morning.''

During this visit to Washington I met at the house of my classmate and dear friend, Randall
Gibson, then a senator from Louisiana, a number of distinguished men among them the Vice-President,
Mr. Hendricks, and General Butler, senator from South Carolina.

Vice-President Hendricks seemed sick and sore.  He had expected to be a candidate for the Presidency,
with a strong probability of election, but had accepted the Vice- Presidency; and the subject
which seemed to elicit his most vitriolic ill will was reform in the civil service.  As we
sat one evening in the smoking-room at Senator Gibson's he was very bitter against the system,
when, to my surprise, General Butler took up the cudgels against him and made a most admirable
argument.  At that moment, for the first time, I felt that the war between North and South
was over; for all the old issues seemed virtually settled, and here, as regarded this new issue,
on which I felt very deeply, was one of the most ardent of Confederate soldiers, a most bitter
pro-slavery man before the Civil War, one who, during the war, had lost a leg in battle, nearer
me politically than were many of my friends and neighbors in the North.

Senator Jones of Florida, who was present, gave us some character sketches, and among others
delineated admirably General Williams, known in the Mexican War as ``Cerro Gordo Williams,''
who was for a time senator from Kentucky.  He said that Williams had a wonderful gift of spread-eagle
oratory, but that, finding no listeners for it among his colleagues, he became utterly disgusted
and went about saying that the Senate was a ``d----d frigid, respectable body that chilled
his intellect.''  This led my fellow-guests to discuss the characteristics of the Senate somewhat,
and I was struck by one remark in which all agreed--namely, that ``there are no politics in
executive session.''

Gibson remarked that the best speech he had ever heard in the Senate was made by John Sherman.

As regards civil-service matters, I found on all sides an opinion that Mr. Cleveland was, just
as far as possible, basing his appointments upon merit.  Gibson mentioned the fact that a candidate
for an important office in his State, who had committed three murders, had secured very strong
backing, but that President Cleveland utterly refused to appoint him.

With President Cleveland I had a very interesting interview.  He referred to his visit to Cornell
University, said that he would have liked nothing so well as to go more thoroughly through
its various departments, and, as when I formerly saw him, expressed his regret at the loss
of such opportunities as an institution of that kind affords.

At this time I learned from him and from those near him something regarding his power for hard
work.  It was generally understood that he insisted on writing out all important papers and
conducting his correspondence in his own hand, and the result was that during a considerable
period of the congressional sessions he sat at his desk until three o'clock in the morning.

It was evident that his up-and-down, curt, independent way did not at all please some of the
leading members of his party; in fact, there were signs of a serious estrangement caused by
the President's refusals to yield to senators and other leaders of the party in the matter
of appointments to office.  To illustrate this feeling, a plain, bluff Western senator, Mr.
Sawyer of Wisconsin, told me a story.

Senator Sawyer had built up a fortune and gained a great influence in his State by a very large
and extensive business in pine lumber, and he had a sort of rough, quaint woodman's wit which
was at times very amusing.  He told me that, some days before, two of his most eminent Democratic
colleagues in the Senate were just leaving the Capitol, and from something they said he saw
that they were going to call upon the President.  He therefore asked them, ``How do you like
this new President of yours?''  ``Oh,'' answered the senators in chorus, ``he is a very good
man--a very good man indeed.''  ``Yes,'' said Senator Sawyer, ``but how do you LIKE him?''
``Oh,'' answered the senators, ``we like him very much--very much indeed.''  ``Well,'' said
Sawyer, ``I will tell you a story before you go to the White House if you will agree when you
get back, to tell me--`honest Injun'--whether it suits your case.''  Both laughingly agreed,
and Mr. Sawyer then told them the following story:  When he was a young man with very small
means, he and two or three other young wood-choppers made up an expedition for lumber-cutting.
As they were too poor to employ a cook for their camp, they agreed to draw lots, and that the
one on whom the lot fell should be cook, but only until some one of the company found fault;
then the fault- finder should become cook in his turn.  Lots being drawn, one of them, much
to his disgust, was thus chosen cook, and toward the close of the day he returned to camp,
before the others, to get supper ready.  Having taken from the camp stores a large quantity
of beans, he put them into a pot boiling over the fire, as he had seen his mother do in his
boyhood, and then proceeded to pour in salt.  Unfortunately the salt-box slipped in his hand,
and he poured in much more than he had intended--in fact, the whole contents of the box.  On
the return of the woodmen to the cabin, ravenously hungry, they proceeded to dish out the boiled
beans, but the first one who put a spoonful in his mouth instantly cried out with a loud objurgation,
``Thunder and lightning! this dish is all salt''; but, in a moment, remembering that if he
found fault he must himself become cook, he said very gently, ``BUT I LIKE SALT.'' Both senators
laughed and agreed that they would give an honest report of their feelings to Senator Sawyer
when they had seen the President.  On their return, Sawyer met them and said, ``Well, honest
Injun, how was it?''  They both laughed and said, ``Well, we like salt.''

Among many interesting experiences I recall especially a dinner at the house of Mr. Fairchild,
Secretary of the Treasury.  He spoke of the civil service, and said that a short time previously
President Cleveland had said to him, regarding the crowd pressing for office:  ``A suggestion
to these office-seekers as to the good of the country would make them faint.''

During this dinner I happened to be seated between Senators John Sherman of Ohio and Vance
of Georgia, and presently Mr. Vance--one of the jolliest mortals I have ever met--turned toward
his colleague, Senator Sherman, and said, very blandly:  ``Senator, I am glad to see you back
from Ohio; I hope you found your fences in good condition.''  There was a general laugh, and
when it was finished Senator Sherman told me in a pleasant way how the well-known joke about
his ``looking after his fences'' arose.  He said that he was the owner of a large farm in Ohio,
and that some years previously his tenant wrote urging him most earnestly to improve its fences,
so that finally he went to Ohio to look into the matter.  On arriving there, he found a great
crowd awaiting him and calling for a speech, when he excused himself by saying that he had
not come to Ohio on political business, but had merely come ``to look after his fences.'' 
The phrase caught the popular fancy, and ``to look after one's fences'' became synonymous with
minding one's political safeguards.

I remember also an interesting talk with Mr. Bayard, who had been one of the most eminent senators
in his time, who was then Secretary of State, and who became, at a later period, ambassador
of the United States to Great Britain.  Speaking of office-seeking, he gave a comical account
of the developing claims of sundry applicants for foreign missions, who, he said, ``are at
first willing to go, next anxious to go, and finally angry because they cannot go.''

On another social occasion, the possibility of another attempt at secession by States being
discussed, General Butler of South Carolina said:  ``No more secession for me.''  To this,
Senator Gibson, who also had been a brigadier- general in the Confederate service, and had
seen much hard fighting, said, ``And no more for me.'' Butler rejoined, ``We may have to help
in preventing others from seceding one of these days.''  I was glad to note that both Butler
and Gibson spoke thoroughly well of their former arch-enemy, General Grant.

Very interesting was it to meet again Mr. George Bancroft.  He referred to his long service
as minister at Berlin, expressed his surprise that Bismarck, whom he remembered as fat, had
become bony, and was very severe against both clericals and liberals who had voted against
allowing aid to Bismarck in the time of his country's greatest necessity.

I also met my Cornell colleague Goldwin Smith, the former Oxford professor and historian, who
expressed his surprise and delight at the perfect order and decorum of the crowd, numbering
nearly five thousand persons, at the presidential levee the night before.  In order to understand
what an American crowd was like, instead of going into the White House by the easier way, as
he was entitled by his invitation to do, he had taken his place in the long procession far
outside the gate and gradually moved through the grounds into the presidential presence, taking
about an hour for the purpose.  He said that there was never any pressing, crowding, or impatience,
and he compared the crowd most favorably with any similar body in a London street.

Chief Justice Waite I also found a very substantial interesting man; but especially fascinating
was General Sheridan, who, at a dinner given by my Berlin predecessor, Mr. Bancroft Davis,
described the scene at the battle of Gravelotte when, owing to a rush by the French, the Emperor
of Germany was for a time in real danger and was reluctantly obliged to fall back.  He said
that during the panic and retreat toward Thionville he saw the Emperor halt from time to time
to scold soldiers who threw away their muskets; that very many German soldiers, during this
panic, cast aside everything except the clothes they wore--not only their guns, but their helmets;
that afterward the highways and fields were strewn thickly with these, and that wagons were
sent out to collect them.  He also said that Bismarck spoke highly to him regarding the martial
and civil qualities of the crown prince, afterward the Emperor Frederick, but that regarding
the Red Prince, Frederick Charles, he expressed a very different opinion.

Speaking of a statement that some one had invented armor which would ward off a rifle-ball,
Sheridan said that during the Civil War an officer who wore a steel vest beneath his coat was
driven out of decent society by general contempt; and at this Goldwin Smith told a story of
the Duke of Wellington, who, when troubled by an inventor of armor, nearly scared him to death
by ordering him to wear his own armor and allow a platoon of soldiers to fire at him.

During the course of the conversation Sheridan said that soldiers were braver now than ever
before--braver, indeed, than the crusaders, as was proved by the fact that in these days they
wear no armor.  To this Goldwin Smith answered that he thought war in the middle ages was more
destructive than even in our time.  Sheridan said that breech-loading rifles kill more than
all the cannon.

At a breakfast given by Goldwin Smith at Wormley's, Bancroft, speaking of Berlin matters, said
that the Emperor William did not know that Germany was the second power in the world so far
as a mercantile navy was concerned until he himself told him; and on the ignorance of monarchs
regarding their own domains, Goldwin Smith said that Lord Malmesbury, when assured by Napoleon
III that in the plebiscite he would have the vote of the army, which was five hundred thousand,
answered, ``But, your majesty, your army numbers seven hundred thousand,'' whereupon the Emperor
was silent.  The in- ference was that his majesty knew a large part of his army to be merely
on paper.

At this Mr. John Field, of Philadelphia, said that on the breaking out of the Franco-Prussian
War he went to General Grant at Long Branch, and asked him how the war was likely to turn out,
to which the general answered, ``As I am President of the United States, I am unable to answer.''
``But,'' said Field, ``I am a citizen sovereign and ask an opinion.''  ``Well,'' said General
Grant, ``confidentially, the Germans will beat the French thoroughly and march on Paris.  The
French army is a mere shell.''  This reminded me that General Grant, on my own visit to him
some weeks before, had foretold to me sundry difficulties of Lord Wolseley in Egypt just as
they afterward occurred.

At a dinner with Senator Morrill of Vermont I met General Schenck, formerly a leading member
of Congress and minister to Brazil and to England.  He was very interesting in his sketches
of English orators; thought Bright the best, Gladstone admirable, and Sir Stafford Northcote,
with his everlasting hawing and humming, intolerable.  He gave interesting reminiscences of
Tom Corwin, his old preceptor, and said that Corwin's power over an audience was magical. 
He added that he once attended a public dinner in Boston, and, sitting near Everett, who was
the chief speaker, noticed that when the waiters sought to clear the table and were about to
remove a bouquet containing two small flags, Everett would not allow them to do it, and that
later in the evening, during his speech, just at the proper point, he caught up these flags,
as if accidentally, and waved them.  He said that everything with Everett and Choate seemed
to be cut and dried; that even the interruptions seemed prepared beforehand.

Senator Morrill then told a story regarding Everett's great speech at the opening of the Dudley
Observatory at Albany, which I had heard at the time of its delivery.  In this speech Everett
said:  ``Last night, crossing the Connecticut River, I saw mirrored in its waters Arcturus,
then fully at the zenith, and I thought,'' etc., etc.; ``but,'' said Morrill, ``some one looked
into the matter and found that Everett, before leaving home, had evidently turned the globe
in his study wrong side up, for at that time Arcturus was not at the zenith, but at the nadir.''

At the Cornell commencement of this year (1885) I resigned my presidency of the university.
It had nominally lasted eighteen years, but really more than twenty, since I had taken the
lead in the work of the university even before its charter was granted, twenty years previously,
and from that day the main charge of its organization and of everything except providing funds
had been intrusted to me.  Regarding this part of my life I shall speak more fully in another
chapter.

Shortly after this resignation two opportunities were offered me which caused me considerable
thought.

As to the first, President Cleveland was kind enough to write me an autograph letter asking
whether I would accept one of the positions on the new Interstate Railway Commission.  I felt
it a great honor to be asked to act as colleague with such men as Chief Justice Cooley, Mr.
Morrison, and others already upon that board, but I recognized my own incompetence to discharge
the duties of such a position properly.  Though I had been, some years before, a director in
two of the largest railway corporations in the United States, my heart was never in that duty,
and I never prepared myself to discharge it.  Thinking the matter over fully, I felt obliged
to decline the place.  My heart was set on finishing the book which I had so long wished to
publish,--my ``History of the Warfare of Science with Theology,''--and in order to cut myself
off from other work and get some needed rest I sailed for Europe on October 3, 1885, but while
engaged most delightfully in visits to Oxford, Cambridge, and various places on the Continent,
I received by cable an offer which had also a very tempting side.  It was sent by my old friend
Mr. Henry Sage of Ithaca, urged me to accept the nomination to Congress from that district,
and assured me that the nomination was equivalent to an election.  There were some reasons
why such a position was attractive to me, but the more I thought of it the more it seemed to
me that to discharge these duties properly would take me from other work to which I was pledged.
Before deciding the question, however, I determined to consult two old friends who were then
living in London hotels adjacent to my own.  The first of these was my dear old instructor,
with whom my relations had been of the kindest ever since my first year at Yale--President Porter.

On my laying the matter before him, he said, ``Accept by all means''; but as I showed him the
reasons on both sides, he at last reluctantly agreed with me that probably it was best to send
a declination.

The other person consulted was Mr. James Belden of Syracuse, afterward a member of Congress
from the Onondaga district, a politician who had a most intimate knowledge of men and affairs
in our State.  We had been during a long period, political adversaries, but I had come to respect
sundry qualities he had more lately exhibited, and therefore went to him as a practical man
and laid the case before him.  He expressed his great surprise that I should advise with him,
my old political adversary, but he said, ``Since you do come, I will give you the very best
advice I can.''

We then went over the case together, and I feel sure that he advised me as well as the oldest
of my friends could have done, and with a shrewdness and foresight all his own.

One of his arguments ran somewhat as follows:  ``To be successful in politics a man must really
think of nothing else; it must be his first thought in the morning and his last at night; everything
else must yield to it.  Heretofore you have quietly gone on your way, sought nothing, and taken
what has been freely tendered you in the interest of the party and of the public.  I know the
Elmira district, and you can have the nomination and the election without trouble; but the
question is whether you could ever be happy in the sort of work which you must do in order
to take a proper place in the House of Representatives.  First of all, you must give up everything
else and devote yourself to that alone; and even then, when you have succeeded, you have only
to look about you and see the men who have achieved success in that way, and who, after all,
have found in it nothing but disappointment.''  In saying this he expressed the conclusion
at which I had already arrived.

I cabled my absolute declination of the nomination, and was reproved by my friends for not
availing myself of this opportunity to take part in political affairs, but have nevertheless
always felt that my decision was wise.

To tell the truth, I never had, and never desired to have, any capacity for the rough-and-tumble
of politics.  I greatly respect many of the men who have gifts of that sort, but have recognized
the fact that my influence in and on politics must be of a different kind.  I have indeed taken
part in some stormy scenes in conventions, meetings, and legislatures, but always with regret.
My true r<o^>le has been a more quiet one.  My ambition, whether I have succeeded in it or
not, has been to set young men in trains of fruitful thought, to bring mature men into the
line of right reason, and to aid in devising and urging needed reforms, in developing and supporting
wise policies, and in building up institutions which shall strengthen what is best in American
life.

Early in 1891 I was asked by Mr. Sherman Rogers of Buffalo, one of the best and truest men
in political life that I have ever known, to accompany him and certain other gentlemen to Washington,
in order to present to Mr. Harrison, who had now become President of the United States, an
argument for the extension of the civil-service rules.  Accompanied by Mr. Theodore Roosevelt
and Senator Cabot Lodge, our delegation reached the Executive Mansion at the time fixed by
the President, and were received in a way which surprised me.  Mr. Harrison seemed, to say
the least, not in good humor.  He stood leaning on the corner of his desk, and he asked none
of us to sit.  All of us had voted for him, and had come to him in his own interest as well
as in the interest of the country; but he seemed to like us none the better for all that. 
The first speech was made by Mr. Rogers.  Dwelling on the disappointment of thoughtful Republicans
throughout the country at the delay in redeeming pledges made by the Republican National Convention
as to the extension of the civil service, and reiterated in the President's own speeches in
the United States Senate, he in a playful way referred to the conduct of certain officials
in Buffalo, when the President interrupted him, as it seemed to me at the time very brusquely
and even rudely saying:  ``Mr. Rogers, you have no right to impute evil motives to any man.
The motives of these gentlemen to whom you refer are presumably as good as your own.  An argument
based upon such imputations cannot advance the cause you support in the slightest degree.''
Mr. Rogers was somewhat disconcerted for a moment, but, having resumed his speech, he presented,
in a very dignified and convincing way, the remainder of his argument.  He was followed by
the other members from various States, giving different sides of the case, each showing the
importance which Republicans in his own part of the country attributed to an extension of the
civil-service rules.

My own turn came last.  I said:  ``Mr. President:  I will make no speech, but will simply state
two facts.

``First: Down to a comparatively recent period every high school, college, and university in
the Northern States has been a center of Republican ideas: no one will gainsay this for a moment.
But recently there has come a change.  During nearly twenty years it has been my duty to nominate
to the trustees of Cornell University candidates for various positions in its faculty; the
fundamental charter of the institution absolutely forbids any consideration, in such cases,
of the party or sect to which any candidate belongs, and I have always faithfully carried out
that injunction, never, in any one of the multitude of nominations that I have made, allowing
the question of politics to enter in the slightest degree.  But still it has happened that,
almost without exception, the candidates have proved to be Republicans, and this to such an
extent that at times I have regretted it; for the university has been obliged frequently to
ask for legislation from a Democratic legislature, and I have always feared that this large
preponderance of Republican professors would be brought up against us as an evidence that we
were not true to the principles of our charter.  As a matter of fact, down to two or three
years since, there were, as I casually learned, out of a faculty of about fifty members, not
over eight or ten Democrats.  But during these recent years all this has been changed, and
at the State election, when Judge Folger was defeated for the governorship, I found to my surprise
that, almost without exception, my colleagues in the faculty had voted the Democratic ticket;
so far as I could learn, but three besides myself had voted for the Republican candidate.''
President Harrison immediately said:  ``Mr. White, was that not chiefly due to the free- trade
tendencies of college-men?''  I answered:  ``No, Mr. President; the great majority of these
men who voted with the Democrats were protectionists, and you will yourself see that they must
have been so if they had continued to vote for the Republican ticket down to that election.
All that I hear leads me to the conviction that the real cause is disappointment at the delay
of the Republican party in making good its promises to improve the public service.  In this
question the faculties of our colleges and universities, especially in the Eastern, Middle,
and Northern States, take a deep interest.  In fact, it is with them the question of all questions;
and I think this is one of the things which, at that election in New York, caused the most
overwhelming defeat that a candidate for governor had ever experienced.''  To this the President
listened attentively, and I then said:  ``Mr. President, my second point is this:  The State
of New York is, of course, of immense importance to the Republican party, and it has been carried
in recent years by a majority of a few hundred votes.  There are more than fourteen thousand
school districts in the State, and in nearly every one of these school districts there are
a certain number of earnest men--anywhere from a handful to a houseful--who believe that since
the slavery question is removed from national politics, the only burning question which remains
is the `spoils system' and the reform of the civil service.  Now, you have only to multiply
the fourteen thousand school districts by a very small figure, and you will see the importance
of this question as regards the vote of the State of New York.  I know whereof I speak, for
I have myself addressed meetings in many of these districts in favor of a reform of the civil
service, have had correspondence with other districts in all parts of the State, and am sure
that there is a deep- seated feeling on the subject in great numbers of them,-- a feeling akin
to what used to be called in the anti-slavery days `fanaticism,'--that is, a deep-seated conviction
that this is now the most important question before the American people, and that it must be
settled in precedence to all others.''

The President received what I had to say courteously, and then began a reply to us all.  He
took at first rather a bitter tone, saying that he had a right to find fault with all of us;
that the Civil Service League had denounced his administration most unjustly for its relation
to the spoils system; that he was moving as rapidly in the matter as circumstances permitted;
that he was anxious to redeem the promises made by the party and by himself; that he had already
done something and purposed to do more; and that the glorifications of the progress made by
the previous administration in this respect, at the expense of his own, had been grossly unjust.

To this we made a short rejoinder on one point, stating that his complaint against us was without
foundation; that not one of us was a member of the Civil Service League; that not one of us
had taken any part in its deliberations; and that we could not, therefore, be made responsible
in any way for its utterances.  The President now became somewhat more genial, though he did
not ask us to be seated, alluding in a pungent but good-natured way to the zeal for reform
shown by Mr. Roosevelt, who was standing by, and closing in considerably better humor than
he had begun.  Although I cannot say that I was greatly pleased with his treatment of the committee,
I remembered that, although courtesy was not generally considered his strong point, he was
known to possess many sterling qualities, and I felt bound to allow that his speech revealed
a man of strength and honest purpose.  All of us, even Mr. Roosevelt and Senator Lodge, came
away believing that good had been done, and that the President, before his term of office had
expired, would do what he could in the right direction; and I am glad to say that this expectation
was fulfilled.

CHAPTER XIV

McKINLEY AND ROOSEVELT--1891-1904

During the summer of 1891 came a curious episode in my life, to which, as it was considerably
discussed in the newspapers at the time, and as various sensational news-makers have dwelt
upon it since, I may be permitted to refer.  During several years before,--in fact, ever since
my two terms in the State Senate,--various people, and especially my old Cornell students throughout
the State, had written to me and published articles in my behalf as a candidate for governor.
I had never encouraged these, and whenever I referred to them deprecated them, since I preferred
a very different line of life, and felt that the grapple with spoilsmen which every governor
must make would wear me out very rapidly.  But the election which was that year approaching
was felt to be very important, and old friends from various parts of the State thought that,
in the severe contest which was expected, I stood a better chance of election than any other
who could be named at that particular time, their theory being that the German vote of the
State would come to me, and that it would probably come to no other Republican.

The reason for this theory was that I had received part of my education in Germany; had shown
especial interest in German history and literature, lecturing upon them at the University of
Michigan and at Cornell; had resided in Berlin as minister; had, on my return, delivered in
New York and elsewhere an address on the ``New Germany,'' wherein were shown some points in
German life which Americans might study to advantage; had also delivered an address on the
``Contributions of Germany to American Civilization''; and had, at various times, formed pleasant
relations with leading Germans of both parties.  The fact was perfectly well known, also, that
I was opposed to the sumptuary laws which had so largely driven Germans out of the Republican
party, and had declared that these were not only unjust to those immediately affected by them,
but injurious to the very interests of temperance, which they were designed to promote.

I was passing the summer at Magnolia, on the east coast of Massachusetts, when an old friend,
the son of an eminent German-American, came from New York and asked me to become a candidate
for the governorship.  I was very reluctant, for special as well as general reasons.  My first
wish was to devote myself wholly to certain long-deferred historical work; my health was not
strong; I felt utterly unfitted for the duties of the campaign, and the position of governor,
highly honorable as it is, presented no especial attractions to me, my ambition not being in
that line.  Therefore it was that at first I urged my friends to combine upon some other person;
but as they came back and insisted that they could agree on no one else, and that I could bring
to the support of the party men who would otherwise oppose it, I reluctantly agreed to discuss
the subject with some of the leading Republicans in New York, and among them Mr. Thomas C.
Platt, who was at the head of the organized management of the party.

In our two or three conversations Mr. Platt impressed me curiously.  I had known him slightly
for many years; indeed, we had belonged to the same class at Yale, but as he had left it and
I had entered it at the beginning of the sophomore year we did not know each other at that
period.  We had met occasionally when we were both supporting Mr. Conkling, but had broken
from each other at the time when he was supporting Mr. Blaine, and I, Mr. Edmunds, for the
nomination at Chicago.  Our discussion now took a form which somewhat surprised me.  The general
belief throughout the State was, I think, that Mr. Platt's first question, or, at any rate,
his main question, in any such discussion, would be, necessarily, as to the attitude of the
candidate toward Mr. Platt's own interests and aspirations.  But I feel bound to say that in
the discussions between us no such questions were ever asked, approached, or even hinted at.
Mr. Platt never asked me a question regarding my attitude toward him or toward his friends;
he never even hinted at my making any pledge or promise to do anything or not to do anything
with reference to his own interests or to those of any other person; his whole effort was directed
to finding what strength my nomination would attract to the party and what it would repel.
He had been informed regarding one or two unpopular votes of mine when I was in the State Senate--as
for example, that I had opposed the efforts of a powerful sectarian organization to secure
the gift of certain valuable landed property from the city of New York; he had also been informed
regarding certain review and magazine articles in which I had spoken my mind somewhat freely
against certain influences in the State which were still powerful, and it had been hinted to
him that my ``Warfare of Science'' chapters might have alienated a considerable number of the
more narrow-minded clergymen and their flocks.

I told Mr. Platt frankly that these fears seemed quite likely to be well founded, and that
there were some other difficulties which I could myself suggest to him: that I had in the course
of my life, made many opponents in supporting Cornell University, and in expressing my mind
on various questions, political and religious, and that these seemed to me likely to cost the
party very many votes.  I therefore suggested that he consult certain persons in various parts
of the State who were entitled to have an opinion, and especially two men of the highest judgment
in such matters--Chief Justice Andrews of Syracuse, and Carroll Earl Smith, editor of the leading
Republican journal in central New York.  The result was that telegrams and letters were exchanged,
these gentlemen declaring their decided opinion that the matters referred to were bygones,
and could not be resuscitated in the coming contest; that they would be lost sight of in the
real questions sure to arise; and that even in the election immediately following the vote
which I had cast against giving a large tract of Ward's Island to a Roman Catholic institution,
I had lost no votes, but had held my own with the other candidates, and even gained upon some
of them.

Mr. Platt also discussed my relations to the Germans and to the graduates of Cornell University
who were scattered all over the State; and as these, without exception, so far as could be
learned, were my warm personal friends, it was felt by those who had presented my name, and
finally, I think, by Mr. Platt, that these two elements in my support might prove valuable.

Still, in spite of this, I advised steadily against my own nomination, and asked Mr. Platt:
``Why don't you support your friend Senator Fassett of Elmira?  He is a young man; he has very
decided abilities; he is popular; his course in the legislature has been admirable; you have
made him collector of the port of New York, and he is known to be worthy of the place.  Why
don't you ask him?''  Mr. Platt's frankness in reply increased my respect for him.  He said:
``I need not confess to you that, personally, I would prefer Mr. Fassett to yourself; but if
he were a candidate he would have to carry the entire weight of my unpopularity.''

Mr. Platt was from first to last perfectly straightforward.  He owed me nothing, for I had
steadily voted against him and his candidate in the National Convention at Chicago.  He had
made no pledges to me, for I had allowed him to make none--even if he had been disposed to
do so; moreover, many of my ideas were opposed to his own.  I think the heaviest piece of work
I ever undertook was when, some months before, I had endeavored to convert  him to the civil-service-reform
forces; but while I had succeeded in converting a good many others, he remained intractable,
and on that subject we were at opposite poles. 

It therefore seems to me altogether to his credit that, in spite of this personal and theoretical
antagonism between us, and in spite of the fact that I had made, and he knew that I would make,
no pledges or promises whatever to him in view of an election, he had favored my nomination
solely as the best chance of obtaining a Republican victory in the State; and I will again
say that I do not believe that his own personal advantage entered into his thoughts on this
occasion.  His pride and his really sincere devotion to the interests of the Republican party,
as he understood them, led him to desire, above all things, a triumph over the Democratic forces,
and the only question in his mind was, Who could best secure the victory?

At the close of these conferences he was evidently in my favor, but on leaving the city I said
to him:  ``Do not consider yourself as in any way pledged to my support.  Go to the convention
at Rochester, and decide what is best after you get there.  I have no desire for the nomination--
in fact, would prefer that some one else bear the burden and heat of the day.  I have been
long out of touch with the party managers in the State.  I don't feel that they would support
me as they would support some man like Mr. Fassett, whom they know and like personally, and
I shall not consider you as pledged to me in the slightest degree.  I don't ask it; I don't
wish it; in fact, I prefer the contrary.  Go to Rochester, be guided by circumstances, and
decide as you see fit.''

In the meantime various things seemed to strengthen my candidacy.  Leading Germans who had
been for some time voting with the Democratic party pledged themselves to my support if I were
nominated, and one of them could bring over to my side one of the most powerful Democratic
journals in the State; in fact, there were pledged to my support two leading journals which,
as matters turned out afterward, opposed the Republican nomination.

At the convention which met shortly afterward at Rochester (September, 1891), things went as
I had anticipated, and indeed as I had preferred.  Mr. Platt found the elements supporting
Mr. Fassett even stronger than he had expected.  The undercurrent was too powerful for him,
and he was obliged to yield to it.

Of course sundry newspapers screamed that he had deceived and defeated me.  I again do him
the justice to say that this was utterly untrue.  I am convinced that he went to Rochester
believing my candidacy best for the party; that he really did what he could in my favor, but
that he found, what I had foretold, that Mr. Fassett, young, energetic, known, and liked by
the active political men in various parts of the State, naturally wished to lead the forces
and was naturally the choice of the convention--a choice which it was not within Mr. Platt's
power to change.

Mr. Fassett was nominated, and I do not know that I have ever received a message which gave
me a greater sense of relief than the telegram which announced this fact to me.

As regards the inside history of the convention, Professor Jenks of Cornell University, a very
thoughtful student of practical politics, who had gone to Rochester to see the working of a
New York State convention, told me some time afterward that he had circulated very freely among
the delegates from various rural districts; that they had no acquaintance with him, and therefore
talked freely in his presence regarding the best policy of the convention.  As a rule, the
prevailing feeling among them was expressed as follows:  ``White don't know the boys; he don't
know the men who do the work of the party; he supports civil-service reform, and that means
that after doing the work of the campaign we shall have no better chance for the offices than
men who have done nothing--in fact, not so good, perhaps, as those who have opposed us.'' 
No doubt this feeling entered into the minds of a large number of delegates and conduced to
the result.

A few weeks afterward Mr. Fassett came to Ithaca.  I had the pleasure of presiding and speaking
at the public meeting which he addressed, and of entertaining him at my house.  He was in every
way worthy of the position to which he had been nominated, but, unfortunately, was not elected.

Having made one or two speeches in this campaign, I turned to more congenial work, and in the
early spring of the following year (February 12 to May 16, 1892) accepted an election as non-resident
professor at Stanford University in California, my duty being to deliver a course of twenty
lectures upon ``The Causes of the French Revolution.''  Just as I was about to start, Mr. Andrew
Carnegie very kindly invited me to go as his guest in his own car and with a delightful party.
There were eight of us--four ladies and four gentlemen.  We went by way of Washington, Chattanooga,
and New Orleans, stopping at each place, and meeting many leading men; then to the city of
Mexico, where we were presented to Porfirio Diaz, the president of that republic, who seemed
to be a man of great shrewdness and strength.  I recall here the fact that the room in which
he received us was hung round with satin coverings, on which, as the only ornament, were the
crown and cipher of Diaz' unfortunate predecessor, the Emperor Maximilian.  Thence we went
to California, and zigzag along the Pacific coast to Tacoma and Seattle; then through the Rocky
Mountains to Salt Lake City meeting everywhere interesting men and things, until at Denver
I left the party and went back to give my lectures at Stanford.

Returning to Cornell University in the early summer I found myself in the midst of my books
and happy in resuming my work.  But now, July 21, 1892, came my nomination by President Harrison
to the position of envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary at St. Petersburg.  On
thinking the matter over, it seemed to me that it would be instructive and agreeable to have
a second diplomatic experience in Russia after my absence of nearly forty years.  I therefore
accepted, and in the autumn of 1892 left America for St. Petersburg.

While in Washington to receive my instructions before leaving, I again met Mr. Harrison, and
must say that he showed a much more kindly and genial side than that which had formerly been
revealed to me, when I had discussed shortcomings of his administration as regarded the civil
service.

My occupancy of this new position lasted until the autumn of 1894, and there was one thing
in it which I have always regarded as a great honor.  Mr. Harrison had appointed me at about
the close of the third year of his term of office; I therefore naturally looked forward to
a stay of but one year in Russia, and, when I left America, certainly desired no more.  A little
of Russian life goes very far.  It is brilliant and attractive in many ways; but for a man
who feels that he has duties and interests in America it soon becomes a sort of exile.  At
the close of Mr. Harrison's administration, therefore, I tendered my resignation, as is customary
with ministers abroad at such times, so that it would arrive in Washington on the fourth day
of March, and then come under the hand of the new President, Mr. Cleveland.  I had taken its
acceptance as a matter of course, and had made all my arrangements to leave Russia on the arrival
of my successor.  But soon I heard that President Cleveland preferred that I should remain,
and that so long as I would consent to remain no new appointment would be made.  In view of
the fact that I had steadily voted against him, and that he knew this, I felt his conduct to
be a mark of confidence for which I ought to be grateful, and the result was that I continued
at the post another year, toward the close of which I wrote a private letter to him, stating
that under no circumstances could I remain longer than the 1st of October, 1894.  The fact
was that the book which I considered the main work of my life was very nearly finished.  I
was anxious to have leisure to give it thorough revision, and this leisure I could not have
in a diplomatic position.  Therefore it was that I insisted on terminating my career at St.
Petersburg, and that the President finally accepted my declination in a letter which I shall
always prize.

During the following winter (1894-1895), at Florence Sorrento, and Palermo, my time was steadily
given to my historical work; and having returned home and seen it through the press, I turned
to another historical treatise which had been long deferred, and never did a man more thoroughly
enjoy his leisure.  I was at last apparently my own master, and could work in the midst of
my books and in the library of the university to my heart's content.

But this fair dream was soon brought to naught.  In December, 1895, I was appointed by President
Cleveland a member of the commission to decide upon the boundary line between the British possessions
in South America and Venezuela.  The circumstances of the case, with the manner in which he
tendered me the position, forbade me to decline it, and I saw no more literary leisure during
the following year.

As the presidential campaign of 1896 approached I had given up all thoughts of politics, and
had again resumed the historical work to which I proposed to devote, mainly, the rest of my
life--the preparation of a biographical history of modern Germany, for which I had brought
together a large amount of material and had prepared much manuscript.  I also hoped to live
long enough to put into shape for publication a series of lectures, on which I had obtained
a mass of original material in France, upon ``The Causes of the French Revolution''; and had
the new campaign been like any of those during the previous twenty years, it would not have
interested me.  But suddenly news came of the nomination by the Democrats of Mr. Bryan.  The
circumstances attending this showed clearly that the coming contest involved, distinctly, the
question between the forces of virtual repudiation, supporting a policy which meant not merely
national disaster but generations of  dishonor on the one side, and, on the other, Mr. McKinley,
supporting a policy of financial honesty.  Having then been called upon to preside over a Republican
meeting at Ithaca, I made a speech which was published and widely circulated, giving the reasons
why all thinking men of both parties ought to rally in support of the Republican candidate,
and this I followed with an open letter to many leading Democrats in the State.  It was begun
as a private letter to a valued Democratic friend, Mr. Oscar S. Straus, who has twice proved
himself a most useful and patriotic minister of the United States at Constantinople.  But,
as my pen was moving, another Democratic friend came into my mind, then another, and again
another, until finally my views were given in an open letter to them all; and this having been
submitted to a friend in New York, with permission to use it as he thought best, he published
it.  The result seemed fortunate.  It was at once caught up by the press and republished in
all parts of the country.  I cannot claim that the gentlemen to whom I wrote were influenced
by it, but certain it is that in spite of their earnest differences from President McKinley
on very important questions, their feeling that this campaign involved issues superior to any
of those which had hitherto existed, led all of them, either directly or indirectly, to support
him.

At the suggestion of various friends, I also republished in a more extended form my pamphlet
on ``Paper Money Inflation in France:  How it Came, What it Brought, and How it Ended,'' which
had first been published at the suggestion of General Garfield and others, as throwing light
on the results of a debased currency, and it was now widely circulated in all parts of the country.

Mr. McKinley was elected, and thus, in my judgment, was averted the greatest peril which our
Republic has encountered since the beginning of the Civil War.  Having now some time for myself,
I accepted sundry invitations to address the students of two of the greater State universities
of the West.  It gave me pleasure to visit them, on many accounts, and above all for the purpose
of realizing the magnificent advance that has been made by them in becoming universities worthy
of our country.

My anticipations were far more than met.  My old student and successor at the University of
Michigan as professor and at Cornell University as president, Dr. Charles Kendall Adams, welcomed
me to the institution over which he so worthily presided--the State University of Wisconsin;
and having visited it a quarter of a century before, I was now amazed at its progress.  The
subject of my address, in the presence of the whole body of students was ``Evolution versus
Revolution in Politics,'' and never have I spoken with more faith and hope.  Looking into the
faces of that immense assembly of students, in training for the best work of their time, lifted
me above all doubts as the future of that commonwealth.

From Madison I went to Minneapolis under an invitation to address the students at the State
University of Minnesota, and again my faith and hope were renewed as I looked into the faces
of those great audiences of young men and young women.  They filled me with confidence in the
future of the country.  At Minneapolis I also met various notable men, among them Archbishop
Ireland, who had interested me much at a former meeting in Philadelphia.  I became sure that
whatever ecclesiastics of his church generally might feel toward the United States, he was
truly patriotic.  Alas for both church and state that such prelates as Gibbons, Ireland, Keane,
Spalding, and the like, should be in a minority!

But my most curious experience was due to another citizen of Minnesota.  Having been taken
to the State House, I was introduced, in the lower branch of the legislature, to no less a
personage than Mr. Ignatius Donnelly, so widely known by his publications regarding the authorship
of Shakspere's writings; and on my asking him whether he was now engaged on any literary work,
he informed me that he was about to publish a book which would leave no particle of doubt,
in the mind of any thinking man, that the writings attributed to Shakspere were really due
to Francis Bacon.  During this conversation the house was droning on in committee of the whole,
and the proceedings fell upon my ear much like the steady rumble of a mill; but suddenly the
mill seemed to stop, my own name was called, and immediately afterward came the words:  ``Mr.
---- of ---- and Mr. ---- of ---- will escort Mr. White to the chair.''  It was a very sudden
awakening from my talk with Mr. Donnelly on literature, but there was no help for it.  ``Accoutred
as I was, I plunged in,'' and, in a long fur- lined coat much the worse for wear and bespattered
with mud, was conducted to the speaker, who, after formal greetings, turned me loose on the
audience.  Naturally my speech revealed what was uppermost in my mind--wonder at the progress
made by the State, admiration for its institutions, confidence in its future, pride in its
relation to the Union.  At the close of this brief talk a few members set up a call for Mr.
Donnelly to respond, whereupon he promptly arose, and of all the speeches I have ever heard
his was certainly the most surprising.  It had seemed to me that my own remarks had glorified
Minnesota up to the highest point; but they were tame indeed compared to his.  Having first
dosed me with blarney, he proceeded to deluge the legislature with balderdash.  One part of
his speech ran substantially on this wise:

``Mr. Speaker, I ask the gentleman, when he returns to his home, to tell his fellow-citizens
of the East what he has seen during his visit to this great State; and, sir, we also wish him
to tell them that Minnesota and the great Northwest will no longer consent to be trodden under
the feet of the East.  The strength of the United States and the future center of American
greatness is here in Minnesota.  Mr. Speaker, not far from this place I own a farm.''  (Here
I began to wonder what was coming next.)  ``From that farm, on one side, the waters trickle
down until they reach the rivulets, and then the streams, and finally the great rivers which
empty into Hudson Bay.  And from the other side of that farm, sir, the waters trickle down
into the rivulets, thence pass into the streams, and finally into the great Father of Waters,
until they reach the Gulf of Mexico.  Mr. Speaker, on this plateau are now raised the great
men of the Republic.  Formerly Virginia was the mother of statesmen; that is so no longer.
The mother of statesmen in these days, and of the men who are to control the destinies of this
Republic, is Minnesota.''

Never before had I any conception of the height to which ``tall talk'' might attain.  It was
the apotheosis of blather; but as my eye wandered over the assemblage, I noticed that many
faces wore smiles, and it was clear to me that the members had merely wished to exhibit their
most amusing specimen.

I felt that if they could stand it I could, and so, having bidden the Speaker and Mr. Donnelly
good-bye, passed out and made the acquaintance of the neighboring city of St. Paul, which struck
me as even more beautiful than Edinburgh in the views from its principal streets over hills,
valleys, and mountains.

At the University of Michigan, in view of my recent visit, I did not again stop, but at Harvard
and Yale I addressed the students, and returned home from the excursion with new faith in the
future of the country.  James Bryce is right when he declares that in our universities lie
the best hopes of the United States.

Early in the year following the election I was appointed by the President ambassador to Germany.
I had not sought the position; indeed, I had distinctly declined to speak of the matter to
any of those who were supposed to have the management of political affairs in the State.  It
came to me, directly and unsought, from President McKinley; I therefore prized it, and shall
ever prize the remembrance of it.

While it was announced as pending, I was urged by various friends to speak of the subject to
Mr. Platt, who as the only Republican senator from New York and the head of the Republican
organization, was supposed to have large rights in the matter.  It was hinted to me that some
statement to Mr. Platt on the subject was required by political etiquette and would smooth
the President's way.  My answer was that I felt respect and friendship for Mr. Platt; that
I called at his rooms from time to time socially, and discussed various public matters with
him; but that I could never make a request to him in the premises; that I could not put myself
in the attitude of a suppliant, even in the slightest degree, to him or even to the President.

The result was that the President himself spoke to Mr. Platt on the subject, and, as I was
afterward informed, the senator replied that he would make no objection, but that the appointment
ought not to be charged against the claims of the State of New York.

The presidential campaign of 1900, in which Mr. McKinley was presented for re<e:>lection, touched
me but slightly.  There came various letters urging me to become a candidate for the Vice-Presidency,
and sundry newspapers presented reasons for my nomination, the main argument being the same
which had been formerly used as regarded the governorship of New York--that the German-Americans
were estranged from the Republican party by the high tariff, and that I was the only Republican
who could draw them to the ticket.  All this I deprecated, and refused to take any part in
the matter, meantime writing my nephew, who had become my successor in the State Senate, my
friend Dr. Holls, and others, to urge the, name of Theodore Roosevelt.  I had known him for
many years and greatly admired him.  His integrity was proof against all attack, his courage
undoubted, and his vigor amazing.  It was clear that he desired renomination for the place
he already held--the governorship of New York--partly because he was devoted to certain reforms,
which he could carry out only in that position, and partly because he preferred activity as
governor of a great State to the usually passive condition of a Vice-President of the United
States.  Moreover, he undoubtedly had aspirations to the Presidency.  These were perfectly
legitimate, and indeed hon- orable, in him, as they are in any man who feels that he has the
qualities needed in that high office.  He and his friends clearly felt that the transition
from the governorship of New York to the Presidency four years later would be more natural
than that from the Vice-Presidency; but in my letters I insisted that his name would greatly
strengthen the national ticket, and that his road to the Presidency seemed to me more easy
from the Vice-Presidency than from the governorship; that, although during recent years Vice-Presidents
had not been nominated to the higher office, during former years they had been; and that I
could see no reason why he might not bring about a return to the earlier custom.  As to myself,
at my age, I greatly preferred the duties of ambassador to those of Vice-President.  The Republican
party was wise enough to take this view, and at the National Convention he was nominated by
acclamation.

Early in August, having taken a leave of absence for sixty days, I arrived in New York, and
on landing received an invitation from Mr. Roosevelt to pass the day with him at his house
in the country.  I found him the same earnest, energetic, straightforward man as of old.  Though
nominated to the Vice-Presidency against his will, he had thrown himself heartily into the
campaign; and the discussion at his house turned mainly on the securing of a proper candidate
for the governorship of the State of New York.  I recommended Charles Andrews, who, although
in the fullest vigor of mind and body, had been retired from the chief-justiceship of the State
on his arrival at the age of seventy years.  This recommendation Mr. Roosevelt received favorably;
but later it was found impossible to carry it out, the Republican organization in the State
having decided in favor of Mr. Odell.

During my entire stay in the United States I was constantly occupied with arrears of personal
business which had been too long neglected; but, at the request of various friends, wrote sundry
open letters and articles, which were widely circulated among German-Americans, showing the
injustice of the charge so constantly made against President McKinley, of hostility to Germany
and German interests.  Nothing could be more absurd than such an imputation.  The very opposite
was the case.

I also gave a farewell address to a great assemblage of students at Cornell University, my
topic being ``The True Conduct of Student Life''; but in the course of my speech, having alluded
to the importance of sobriety of judgment, I tested by it sundry political contentions which
were strongly made on both sides, alluding especially to Goldwin Smith's very earnest declaration
that one of the greatest dangers to our nation arises from plutocracy.  I took pains to show
that the whole spirit of our laws is in favor of the rapid dispersion of great properties,
and that, within the remembrance of many present, a large number of the greatest fortunes in
the United States had been widely dispersed.  As to other declarations regarding dangers arising
from the acquisition of foreign territory and the like, I insisted that all these dangers were
as nothing compared to one of which we were then having a striking illustration--namely, demagogism;
and I urged, what I have long deeply felt, that the main source of danger to republican institutions
is now, and always has been, the demagogism which seeks to array labor against capital, employee
against employer, profession against profession, class against class, section against section.
I mentioned the name of no one; but it must have been clear to all present how deeply I felt
regarding the issues which each party represented, and especially regarding the resort to the
lowest form of demagogism which Mr. Bryan was then  making, in the desperate attempt to save
his falling fortunes.

During this stay in America I made two visits to Washington to confer with the President and
the State Department.  The first of these was during the hottest weather I have ever known.
There were few people at the capital who could leave it, and at the Arlington Hotel there were
not more than a dozen guests.  All were distressed by the heat.  Moreover, there was an amazing
complication of political matters at this time, calculated to prostrate the Washington officials,
even if the heat had not done so; and, among these, those relating to American control in the
Philippine Islands; the bitter struggle then going on in China between the representatives
of foreign powers, including our own, and the Chinese insurrectionists; the difficulties arising
out of the successful result of the Spanish War in Cuba; complications in the new administration
of Porto Rico; and the myriad of questions arising in a heated political campaign, which was
then running fast and furious.

Arriving at the White House, I passed an hour with the President, and found him, of all men
in Washington, the only one who seemed not at all troubled by the heat, by the complications
in China, by the difficulties in Cuba and Porto Rico, or by the rush and whirl of the campaign.
He calmly discussed with me the draft of a political note which was to be issued next day in
answer to the Russian communications regarding the mode of procedure in China, which had started
some very trying questions; and then showed me a letter from ex-President Cleveland declining
a position on the International Arbitration Tribunal at the Hague, and accepted my suggestion
not to consider it a final answer, but to make another effort for Mr. Cleveland's acceptance.
During this first visit of mine, the Secretary of State and the First Assistant Secretary were
both absent, having been almost prostrated by the extreme heat.  At a second visit in October,
I again saw the President, found him in the same equable frame of mind, not allowing anything
to trouble him, quietly discharging his duties in the calm faith that all would turn out well.
Dining with Secretary Hay, I mentioned this equanimity of the President, when he said:  ``Yes;
it is a source of perpetual amazement to us all.  He allows no question, no matter how complicated
or vexatious, to disturb him.  Some time since, at a meeting of the cabinet, one of its members
burst out into a bitter speech against some government official who had been guilty of gross
rudeness, and said, `Mr. President, he has insulted you, and he has insulted me'; thereupon
the President said calmly, `Mr. Secretary, if he has insulted ME, I forgive him;  if he has
insulted you, I shall remove him from office.' ''

Newspapers were teeming with misrepresentations of the President's course, but they failed
to ruffle him.  On his asking if I was taking any part in the campaign, I referred to a speech
that I had made on the Fourth of July in Leipsic, and another to the Cornell University students
just before my departure, with the remark that I felt that a foreign diplomatic representative
coming home and throwing himself eagerly into the campaign might possibly do more harm than
good.  In this remark he acquiesced, and said:  ``I shall not, myself, make any speeches whatever;
nor shall I give any public receptions.  My record is before the American people, and they
must pass judgment upon it.  In this respect I shall go back to what seems to me the better
practice of the early Presidents.''  I was struck by the justice of this, and told him so,
although I felt obliged to say that he would be under fearful temptation to speak before the
campaign had gone much farther.  He smiled, but held to his determination, despite the fact
that his opponent invaded all parts of the Union in an oratorical frenzy, in one case making
a speech at half-past two in the morning to a crowd assembled at a railway station, and making
during one day thirty-one speeches, teeming with every kind of campaign misrepresentation;
but the President was faithful to his promise, uttered no word in reply, and was re<e:>lected.

Not only at home, but abroad, as I can amply testify, the news of his re<e:>lection was received
with general satisfaction, and most of all by those who wish well to our country and cherish
hopes that government by the people and for the people may not be brought to naught by the
wild demagogism which has wrecked all great republics thus far.

But alas! the triumph was short-lived.  One morning in September, while I was slowly recovering
from two of the greatest bereavements which have ever befallen me, came the frightful news
of his assassination.  Shortly afterward, for family and business reasons, I went for a few
weeks to the United States, and, in the course of my visit, conferred with the new President
three times--first at the Yale bicentennial celebration, afterward in his private office, and
finally at his table in the White House.  Hard indeed was it for me to realize what had taken
place --that President McKinley, whom I had so recently seen in his chair at the head of the
cabinet table, was gone forever; that in those rooms, where I had, at four different times,
chatted pleasantly with him, he was never to be seen more; and that here, in that same seat,
was sitting my old friend and co-laborer.  Hard was it to realize that the last time I had
met Mr. Roosevelt in that same room was when we besought President Harrison to extend the civil
service.  Interesting as the new President's conversation was, there was constantly in my mind,
whether in his office or his parlors or the dining-room at the White House, one deep undertone.
It was like the pedal bass of an organ, steadily giving the ground tone of a requiem--the vanity
and evanescence of all things earthly.  There had I seen, in the midst of their jubilant supporters,
Pierce, Lincoln, Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Cleveland, Harrison, and, finally, so short a time
before, McKinley.  It seemed all a dream.  In his conversations the new President showed the
same qualities that I had before known in him--earnestness, vigor, integrity, fearlessness,
and, at times, a sense of humor, blending playfully with his greater qualities.  The message
he gave me to the Emperor William was characteristic.  I was naturally charged to assure the
Emperor of the President's kind feeling; but to this was added, in a tone of unmistakable truth:
``Tell him that when I say this, I mean it.  I have been brought up to admire and respect Germany.
My life in that country and my reading since have steadily increased this respect and admiration.''
I noticed on the table a German book which he had just been reading, its author being my old
friend Professor Hans Delbr<u:>ck of the Berlin University.  At the close of the message, which
referred to sundry matters of current business, came a playful postlude.  ``Tell his Majesty,''
said the President, ``that I am a hunter and, as such, envy him one thing especially: he has
done what I have never yet been able to do--he has killed a whale.  But say to him that if
he will come to the United States, I will take him to the Rocky Mountains to hunt the mountain
lions, which is no bad sport,--and that if he kills one, as he doubtless will, he will be the
first monarch who has killed a lion since Tiglath-Pileser.''  I need hardly add that when,
a few weeks later, I delivered the message to the Emperor at Potsdam, it pleased him.  Many
people on both sides of the Atlantic have noted a similarity in qualities between these two
rulers, and, from close observation, I must confess that this is better founded than are most
such attributed resemblances.  The Emperor has indeed several accomplishments, more especially
in artistic matters, which, so far as I can learn, the President has not; but both are ambitious
in the noblest sense; both are young men of deep beliefs and high aims; earnest, vigorous,
straightforward, clear-sighted; good speakers, yet sturdy workers, and anxious for the prosperity,
but above all things jealous for the honor of the people whose affairs they are called to administer.
The President's accounts of difficulties in finding men for responsible positions in various
branches of the service, and his clear statements of the proper line to be observed in political
dealings between the United States and Europe where South American interests were concerned,
showed him to be a broad-minded statesman.  During my stay with him, we also discussed one
or two points in his forthcoming message to Congress, and in due time it was received at Berlin,
attracting general respect and admiration in Germany, as throughout Europe generally.  Foremost
of these was the surpliced clergyman of the parish.  So strong was my admiration for him that
my dear mother, during her entire life, never relinquished the hope, and indeed the expectation,
that I would adopt the clerical profession.

Another object of my admiration--to whose profession I aspired--was the village carpenter.
He ``did things,'' and from that day to this I have most admired the men who ``do things.''

Yet another of these personages was the principal of Cortland Academy.  As I saw him addressing
his students, or sitting in the midst of them observing with a telescope the satellites of
Jupiter, I was overawed.  A sense of my littleness overcame me, and I hardly dared think of
aspiring to duties so exalted.

But at the age of seven a new ideal appeared.  The family had removed from the little town
where I was born to Syracuse, then a rising village of about five thousand inhabitants.  The
railways, east and west, had just been created,--the beginnings of what is now the New York
Central Railroad,--and every day, so far as possible, I went down-town ``to see the cars go
out.''  During a large part of the year there was but one passenger-train in each direction,
and this was made up of but three or four small compartment-cars drawn by a locomotive which
would now be considered ridiculously small, at the rate of twelve to fifteen miles an hour.

Yet I doubt whether the express trains on the New York Central, drawn by hundred-ton locomotives
at a speed of sixty miles an hour, produce on the youth of the present generation anything
like the impression made by those simple beginnings.  The new personage who now attracted my
homage was the locomotive-driver.  To me his profession transcended all others.  As he mounted
the locomotive, and especially as he pulled the starting-bar, all other functions seemed insignificant.
Every day I contemplated him; often I dreamed of him; saw him in my mind's eye dashing through
the dark night, through the rain and hail, through drifting snow, through perils of ``wash-
outs'' and ``snake-heads,'' and no child in the middle ages ever thought with more awe of a
crusading knight leading his troops to the Holy City than did I think of this hero standing
at his post in all weathers, conducting his train to its destination beyond the distant hills.
It was indeed the day of small things.  The traveler passing from New York to Buffalo in those
days changed from the steamer at Albany to the train for Schenectady, there changed to the
train for Utica, thence took the train for Syracuse, there stayed overnight, then took a train
for Auburn, where he found the train for Rochester, and after two more changes arrived in Buffalo
after a journey of two days and a night, which is now made in from eight to ten hours.

But the locomotive-driver was none the less a personage, and I must confess that my old feeling
of respect for him clings to me still.  To this hour I never see him controlling his fiery
steed without investing him with some of the attributes which I discerned in him during my
childhood.  It is evident to me that the next heroes whom poets will exploit will be the drivers
of our railway trains and the pilots of our ocean steamers.  One poet has, indeed, made a beginning
already,--and this poet the Secretary of State of the United States under whom I am now serving,
the Hon. John Hay.  Still another poet, honored throughout the world, has also found a hero
in the engine-driver, and Rudyard Kipling will no doubt be followed by others.

But my dream of becoming a locomotive-driver faded, and while in college I speculated not a
little as to what, after all, should be my profession.  The idea of becoming a clergyman had
long since left my mind.  The medical profession had never attracted me.  For the legal profession
I sought to prepare myself somewhat, but as I saw it practised by the vast majority of lawyers,
it seemed a waste of all that was best in human life.  Politics were from an early period repulsive
to me, and, after my first sight of Washington in its shabby, sleazy, dirty, unkempt condition
under the old slave oligarchy, political life became absolutely repugnant to my tastes and
desires.  At times a longing came over me to settle down in the country, to make an honest
living from a farm--a longing which took its origin in a visit which I had made as a child
to the farm of an uncle who lived upon the shores of Seneca Lake.  He was a man of culture,
who, by the aid of a practical farmer and an income from other sources, got along very well.
His roomy, old-fashioned house, his pleasant library, his grounds sloping to the lake, his
peach-orchard, which at my visit was filled with delicious fruit, and the pleasant paths through
the neighboring woods captivated me, and for several years the agricultural profession lingered
in my visions as the most attractive of all.

As I now look back to my early manhood, it seems that my natural inclination should have been
toward journalism; but although such a career proves attractive to many of our best university-bred
men now, it was not so then.  In those days men did not prepare for it; they drifted into it.
I do not think that at my graduation there was one out of the one hundred and eight members
of my class who had the slightest expectation of permanently connecting himself with a newspaper.
This seems all the more singular since that class has since produced a large number of prominent
journalists, and among these George Washburne Smalley, the most eminent, by far, among American
newspaper correspondents of our time; Evarts Greene, a leading editor of Worcester; Delano
Goddard, late editor of the ``Boston Advertiser''; Kinsley Twining, for a considerable time
an editor of the ``Independent''; Isaac Bromley, who for years delighted the Republican party
with his contributions to the editorial page of the ``Tribune''; Dr. James Morris Whiton, a
leading writer for the ``Outlook''; and others.  Yet in those days probably not one of these
ever thought of turning to journalism as a career.  There were indeed at that time eminent
editors, like Weed, Croswell, Greeley, Raymond, and Webb, but few college-bred men thought
of journalism as a profession.  Looking back upon all this, I feel certain that, were I to
begin life again with my present experience, that would be the career for which I would endeavor
to fit myself.  It has in it at present many admirable men, but far more who are manifestly
unfit.  Its capacities for good or evil are enormous, yet the majority of those at present
in it seem to me like savages who have found a watch.  I can think of no profession in which
young men properly fitted--gifted with ideas and inspired by a real wish to do something for
their land and time--can more certainly do good work and win distinction.  To supplant the
present race of journalistic prostitutes, who are making many of our newspapers as foul in
morals, as low in tone, and as vile in utterance as even the worst of the French press, might
well be the ambition of leading thinkers in any of our universities.  There is nothing so greatly
needed in our country as an uplifting of the daily press, and there is no work promising better
returns.

But during my student life in Paris and Berlin another vista began to open before me.  I had
never lost that respect for the teaching profession which had been aroused in my childhood
by the sight of Principal Woolworth enthroned among the students of Cortland Academy, and this
early impression was now greatly deepened by my experience at the Sorbonne, the College of
France, and the University of Berlin.  My favorite studies at Yale had been history and kindred
subjects, but these had been taught mainly from text-books.  Lectures were few and dry.  Even
those of President Woolsey were not inspiring; he seemed paralyzed by the system of which he
formed a part.  But men like Arnould, St. Marc Girardin, and Laboulaye in France, and Lepsius,
Ritter, von Raumer, and Curtius in Germany, lecturing to large bodies of attentive students
on the most interesting and instructive periods of human history, aroused in me a new current
of ideas.  Gradually I began to ask myself the question:  Why not help the beginnings of this
system in the United States?  I had long felt deeply the shortcomings of our American universities,
and had tried hard to devise something better; yet my ideas as to what could really be done
to improve them had been crude and vague.  But now, in these great foreign universities, one
means of making a reform became evident, and this was, first of all, the substitution of lectures
for recitations, and the creation of an interest in history by treating it as a living subject
having relations to present questions.  Upon this I reflected much, and day by day the idea
grew upon me.  So far as I can remember, there was not at that time a professor of history
pure and simple in any American university.  There had been courses of historical lectures
at a few institutions, but they were, as a rule, spasmodic and perfunctory.  How history was
taught at Yale is shown in another chapter of these reminiscences.  The lectures of President
Sparks had evidently trained up no school of historical professors at Harvard.  There had been
a noted professor at William and Mary College, Virginia,--doubtless, in his time, the best
historical lecturer in the United States,--Dr. William Dew, the notes of whose lectures, as
afterward published, were admirable; but he had left no successor.  Francis Lieber, at the
University of South Carolina, had taught political philosophy with much depth of thought and
wealth of historical illustration; but neither there nor elsewhere did there exist anything
like systematic courses in history such as have now been developed in so many of our universities
and colleges.

During my stay as resident graduate at Yale after my return from Europe in 1856, I often discussed
the subject with my old friend and companion Gilman, now president of the Carnegie Institution,
and with my beloved instructor, Professor Porter.  Both were kind enough to urge me to remain
at New Haven, assuring me that in time a professorship would be established.  To promote this
I wrote an article on ``German Instruction in General History,'' which was well received when
published in the ``New Englander,'' and prepared sundry lectures, which were received by the
university people and by the New York press more favorably than I now think they deserved.
But there seemed, after all, no chance for a professorship devoted to this line of study. 
More and more, too, I felt that even if I were called to a historical professorship at Yale,
the old- fashioned orthodoxy which then prevailed must fetter me: I could not utter the shibboleths
then demanded, and the future seemed dark indeed.  Yet my belief in the value of better historical
instruction in our universities grew more and more, and a most happy impulse was now given
to my thinking by a book which I read and reread-- Stanley's ``Life of Arnold.''  It showed
me much, but especially two things: first, how effective history might be made in bringing
young men into fruitful trains of thought regarding present politics; and, secondly, how real
an influence an earnest teacher might thus exercise upon his country.

While in this state of mind I met my class assembled at the Yale commencement of 1856 to take
the master's degree in course, after the manner of those days.  This was the turning-point
with me.  I had been for some time more and more uneasy and unhappy because my way did not
seem to clear; but at this commencement of 1856, while lounging among my classmates in the
college yard, I heard some one say that President Wayland of Brown University was addressing
the graduates in the Hall of the Alumni.  Going to the door, I looked in, and saw at the high
table an old man, strong-featured, heavy-browed, with spectacles resting on the top of his
head, and just at that moment he spoke very impressively as follows:  ``The best field of work
for graduates is now in the WEST; our country is shortly to arrive at a switching-off place
for good or evil; our Western States are to hold the balance of power in the Union, and to
determine whether the country shall become a blessing or a curse in human history.''

I had never seen him before; I never saw him afterward.  His speech lasted less than ten minutes,
but it settled a great question for me.  I went home and wrote to sundry friends that I was
a candidate for the professorship of history in any Western college where there was a chance
to get at students, and as a result received two calls--one to a Southern university, which
I could not accept on account of my anti-slavery opinions; the other to the University of Michigan,
which I accepted.  My old college friends were kind enough to tender me later the professorship
in the new School of Art at Yale, but my belief was firm in the value of historical studies.
The words of Wayland rang in my ears, and I went gladly into the new field.

On arriving at the University of Michigan in October, 1857, although I had much to do with
other students, I took especial charge of the sophomore class.  It included many young men
of ability and force, but had the reputation of being the most unmanageable body which had
been known there in years.  Thus far it had been under the charge of tutors, and it had made
life a burden to them.  Its preparation for the work I sought to do was wretchedly imperfect.
Among my duties was the examination of entrance classes in modern geography as a preliminary
to their admission to my course in history, and I soon discovered a serious weakness in the
public-school system.  In her preparatory schools the State of Michigan took especial pride,
but certainly at that time they were far below their reputation.  If any subject was supposed
to be thoroughly taught in them it was geography, but I soon found that in the great majority
of my students there was not a trace of real knowledge of physical geography and very little
of political.  With this state of things I at once grappled, and immediately ``conditioned''
in these studies about nine tenths of the entering class.  At first there were many protests;
but I said to my ingenuous youths that no pedantic study was needed, that all I required was
a preparation such as would enable any one of them to read intelligently his morning newspaper,
and to this end I advised each one of them to accept his conditions, to abjure all learning
by rote from text-books, to take up simply any convenient atlas which came to hand, studying
first the map of our own country, with its main divisions, physical and political, its water
communications, trend of coasts, spurring of mountains, positions of leading cities, etc.,
and then to do the same thing with each of the leading countries of Europe, and finally with
the other main divisions of the world.  To stimulate their interest and show them what was
meant, I gave a short course of lectures on physical geography, showing some of its more striking
effects on history; then another course on political geography, with a similar purpose; and
finally notified my young men that they were admitted to my classes in history only under condition
that, six weeks later, they should pass an examination in geography, full, satisfactory, and
final.  The young fellows now took their conditions very kindly, for they clearly saw the justice
of them.  One young man said to me:  ``Professor, you are entirely right in conditioning me,
but I was never so surprised in my life; if there was anything which I supposed I knew well
it was geography; why, I have taught it, and very successfully, in a large public school.''
On my asking him how he taught a subject in which he was so deficient, he answered that he
had taught his pupils to ``sing'' it.  I replied that if he would sing the answers to my questions,
I would admit him at once; but this he declined, saying that he much preferred to accept the
conditions.  In about six weeks I held the final examinations, and their success amazed us
all.  Not a man failed, and some really distinguished themselves.  They had all gone at the
work cordially and heartily, arranging themselves in squads and clubs for mutual study and
examination on each physical and political map; and it is certain that by this simple, common-sense
method they learned more in six weeks than they had previously learned in years of plodding
along by rote, day after day through text-books.

Nor was this mere ``cram.''  Their geographical knowledge lasted and was increased, as was
proved at my historical examinations afterward.

I soon became intensely interested in my work, and looked forward to it every day with pleasure.
The first part of it was instruction in modern history as a basis for my lectures which were
to follow, and for this purpose I used with the sophomores two text-books.  The first of these
was Robertson's ``Philosophical View of the Middle Ages,'' which forms the introduction to
his ``Life of Charles the Fifth.''  Although superseded in many of its parts by modern investigation,
very defective in several important matters, and in some things--as, for example, in its appreciation
of medieval literature--entirely mistaken, it was, when written one hundred years ago, recognized
as a classic, and it remains so to this day.  It was a work of genius.  Supplemented by elucidations
and extensions, it served an admirable purpose in introducing my students to the things really
worth knowing in modern history, without confusing them with masses of pedantic detail.

The next text-book which I took up was Dr. John Lord's ``Modern History,'' the same which President
Woolsey had used with my class during its senior year at Yale.  It was imperfect in every respect,
with no end of gaps and errors, but it had one real merit--it interested its readers.  It was,
as every such work ought to be, largely biographic.  There was enthusiasm, a sort of ``go,''
in Dr. Lord, and this quality he had communicated to his book, so that, with all its faults,
it formed the best basis then obtainable for further instruction.  Its omissions and errors
I sought to rectify--as Woolsey, I am sorry to say, had never done to any extent--by offhand
talks and by pointing out supplementary reading, such as sundry chapters of Gibbon and Hallam,
essays by Macaulay, extracts from Lingard, Ranke, Prescott, Motley, and others.  Once a fortnight
through the winter, the class assembled at my house socially, ``the more attractive young women
of the little city being invited to meet them; but the social part was always preceded by an
hour and a half's reading of short passages from eminent historians or travelers, bearing on
our classroom work during the previous fortnight.  These passages were read by students whom
I selected for the purpose, and they proved useful from the historical, literary, and social
point of view.

For the class next above, the juniors, I took for textbook preparation Guizot's ``History of
Civilization in Europe''--a book tinged with the doctrinairism of its author, but a work of
genius; a GREAT work, stimulating new trains of thought, and opening new vistas of knowledge.
This, with sundry supplementary talks, and with short readings from Gibbon, Thierry, Guizot's
``History of Civilization in France,'' and Sir James Stephen's ``Lectures on French History,''
served an excellent purpose.

Nor was the use of Guizot's book entirely confined to historical purposes.  Calling attention
to the Abb<e'> Bautain's little book on extemporaneous speaking, as the best treatise on the
subject I had ever seen, I reminded my students that these famous lectures of Guizot, which
had opened a new epoch in modern historical investigation and instruction, were given, as regards
phrasing, extemporaneously, but that, as regards matter, they were carefully prepared beforehand,
having what Bautain calls a ``self- developing order''; and I stated that I would allow any
member of my class who might volunteer for the purpose to give, in his own phrasing, the substance
of an entire lecture.  For a young man thus to stand up and virtually deliver one of Guizot's
lectures required great concentration of thought and considerable facility in expression, but
several students availed themselves of the permission, and acquitted themselves admirably.
This seemed to me an excellent training for effective public speaking, and several of my old
students, who have since distinguished themselves in public life, have confessed to me that
they found it so.

My next and highest duty was giving lectures to the senior class and students from the law
school.  Into this I threw myself heartily, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing my large
lecture-room constantly full.  The first of these courses was on the ``Development of Civilization
during the Middle Ages''; and, as I followed the logical rather than the chronological order,--taking
up the subject, not by a recital of events, but by a discussion of epochs and subjects,--I
thought it best to lecture without manuscript or even notes.  This was, for me, a bold venture.
I had never before attempted anything in the way of extended extemporaneous speaking; and,
as I entered the old chapel of the university for my first lecture, and saw it full of students
of all classes, I avowed my trepidation to President Tappan, who, having come to introduce
me, was seated by my side.  He was an admirable extemporaneous speaker in the best sense, and
he then and there gave me a bit of advice which proved of real value.  He said:  ``Let me,
as an old hand, tell you one thing: never stop dead; keep saying something.''  This course
of lectures was followed by others on modern history, one of these being on ``German History
from the Revival of Learning and the Reformation to Modern Times,'' another on ``French History
from the Consolidation of the Monarchy to the French Revolution,'' and still another on the
``French Revolution.''  To this latter course I gave special attention, the foundation having
been laid for it in France, where I had visited various interesting places and talked with
interesting men who recalled events and people of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic periods.
For a text-book foundation I read with my lower classes Mignet's ``History of the Revolution,''
which still remained what Carlyle pronounced it--the best short summary of that great period.

To further the work of my students in the lecture-room, I published an interleaved syllabus
of each course, and was, I think, the first person in our country who ever did this in connection
with historical lectures.  It is a matter of wonder to me that so few professors in these days
resort to this simple means of strengthening their instruction.  It ought to be required by
university statutes.  It seems to me indispensable to anything like thorough work.  A syllabus,
properly interleaved, furnishes to a student by far the best means of taking notes on each
lecture, as well as of reviewing the whole course afterward, and to a professor the best means
of testing the faithfulness of his students.  As regards myself personally, there came to me
from my syllabus an especial advantage; for, as I have shown in my political experiences, it
gained for me the friendship of Charles Sumner.

I have stated elsewhere that my zeal in teaching history was by no means the result of a mere
liking for that field of thought.  Great as was my love for historical studies, there was something
I prized far more--and that was the opportunity to promote a better training in thought regarding
our great national problems then rapidly approaching solution, the greatest of all being the
question between the supporters and opponents of slavery.

In order that my work might be fairly well based, I had, during my college days and my first
stay abroad, begun collecting the private library which has added certainly to the pleasures,
and probably to the usefulness, of my life.  Books which are now costly rarities could then
be bought in the European capitals for petty sums.  There is hardly any old European city which
has not been, at some time, one of my happy hunting-grounds in the chase for rare books bearing
upon history; even now, when my collection, of which the greater part has been trans- ferred
to Cornell University, numbers not far short of forty thousand volumes, the old passion still
flames up at times; and during the inditing of this chapter I have secured two series of manuscripts
of very great value in illustrating the evolution of modern civilization.  My reason for securing
such original material was not the desire to possess rarities and curiosities.  I found that
passages actually read from important originals during my lectures gave a reality and vividness
to my instruction which were otherwise unattainable.  A citation of the ipsissima verba of
Erasmus, or Luther, or Melanchthon, or Peter Canisius, or Louis XIV, or Robespierre, or Marat,
interested my students far more than any quotation at second hand could do.  No rhetoric could
impress on a class the real spirit and strength of the middle ages as could one of my illuminated
psalters or missals; no declamation upon the boldness of Luther could impress thinking young
men as did citations from his ``Erfurt Sermon,'' which, by weakening his safe-conduct, put
him virtually at the mercy of his enemies at the Diet of Worms; no statements as to the fatuity
of Robespierre could equal citations from an original copy of his ``Report on the Moral and
Religious Considerations which Ought to Govern the Republic''; all specifications of the folly
of Marat paled before the ravings in the original copies of his newspaper, ``L'Ami du Peuple'';
no statistics regarding the paper-money craze in France could so impress its actuality on students
as did the seeing and handling of French revolutionary assignats and mandats, many of them
with registration numbers clearly showing the enormous quantities of this currency then issued;
no illustration, at second hand, of the methods of the French generals during the Revolutionary
period could produce the impression given by a simple exhibition of the broadsides issued by
the proconsuls of that period; no description of the collapse of the triumvirate and the Reign
of Terror could equal a half-hour's reading from the ``Moniteur''; and all accounts of the
Empire were dim compared to grandiose statements read from the original bulletins of Napoleon.

In this way alone can history be made real to students.  Both at my lectures and in the social
gatherings at my house, I laid out for my classes the most important originals bearing upon
their current work; and it was no small pleasure to point out the relations of these to the
events which had formed the subject of our studies together.  I say ``our studies together,''
because no one of my students studied more hours than myself.  They stimulated me greatly.
Most of them were very near my own age; several were older.  As a rule, they were bright, inquiring,
zealous, and among them were some of the best minds I have ever known.  From among them have
since come senators, members of Congress, judges, professors, lawyers, heads of great business
enterprises, and foreign ministers.  One of them became my successor in the professorship in
the University of Michigan and the presidency of Cornell, and, in one field, the leading American
historian of his time.  Another became my predecessor in the embassy to Germany.  Though I
had what might be fairly called ``a good start'' of these men, it was necessary to work hard
to maintain my position; but such labor was then pleasure.

Nor was my work confined to historical teaching.  After the fashion of that time, I was called
upon to hear the essays and discussions of certain divisions of the upper classes.  This demanded
two evenings a week through two terms in each year, and on these evenings I joyfully went to
my lecture-room, not infrequently through drifts of snow, and, having myself kindled the fire
and lighted the lamps, awaited the discussion.  This subsidiary work, which in these degenerate
days is done by janitors, is mentioned here as showing the simplicity of a bygone period. 
The discussions thus held were of a higher range than any I had known at Yale, and some were
decidedly original.  One deserves especial mention.  A controversy having arisen in Massachusetts
and spread throughout the country regarding the erection of a statue of Daniel Webster in front
of the State House at Boston, and bitter opposition having been aroused by his seventh-of-March
speech, two groups of my student-disputants agreed to take up this subject and model their
speeches upon those of Demosthenes and Aeschines on the crown, which they were then reading
in the original.  It was a happy thought, and well carried out.

CHAPTER XVI

UNIVERSITY LIFE IN THE WEST--1857-1864

It must be confessed that all was not plain sailing in my new position.  One difficulty arose
from my very youthful, not to say boyish, appearance.  I was, indeed, the youngest member of
the faculty; but at twenty-four years one has the right to be taken for a man, and it was vexatious
to be taken for a youth of seventeen.  At my first arrival in the university town I noticed,
as the train drew up to the station, a number of students, evidently awaiting the coming of
such freshmen as might be eligible to the various fraternities; and, on landing, I was at once
approached by a sophomore, who asked if I was about to enter the university.  For an instant
I was grievously abashed, but pulling myself together, answered in a sort of affirmative way;
and at this he became exceedingly courteous, taking pains to pilot me to a hotel, giving me
much excellent advice, and even insisting on carrying a considerable amount of my baggage.
Other members of fraternities joined us, all most courteous and kind, and the d<e'>nouement
came only at the registration of my name in the hotel book, when they recognized in me ``the
new professor.''  I must say to their credit that, although they were for a time laughed at
throughout the university, they remained my warm personal friends.

But after I had discharged the duties of my professorship for a considerable period, this same
difficulty existed.  On a shooting excursion, an old friend and myself came, and, being very
hungry, asked for bread and milk.  My companion being delayed outside, cleaning the guns, the
farmer's wife left me and went out to talk with him.  I continued eating my bread and milk
voraciously, and shortly afterward they entered, he laughing heartily and she looking rather
shamefaced.  On my asking the cause he declined for a time to state it, but at length said
that she had come out to warn him that if he did not come in pretty soon ``that boy would eat
up all the bread and milk in the house.''  This story leaked out, and even appeared in a local
paper, but never, I think, did me any harm.

Another occurrence, shortly afterward, seemed likely for a time to be more serious.  The sophomore
class, exuberant and inventive as ever, were evidently determined to ``try it on'' their young
professor--in fact, to treat me as they had treated their tutors.  Any mistake made by a student
at a quiz elicited from sundry benches expressions of regret much too plaintive, or ejaculations
of contempt much too explosive; and from these and various similar demonstrations which grew
every day among a certain set in my class-room, it was easy to see that a trial of strength
must soon come, and it seemed to me best to force the fighting.  Looking over these obstreperous
youths I noticed one tall, black-bearded man with a keen twinkle in his eye, who was evidently
the leader.  There was nothing in him especially demonstrative.  He would occasionally nod
in this direction, or wink in that, or smile in the other; but he was solemn when others were
hilarious, unconcerned when others applauded.  It was soon clear to me that in him lay the
key to the situation, and one day, at the close of the examination, I asked him to remain.
When we were alone I said to him, in an easy-going way, ``So, F----, I see that either you
or I must leave the university.''  He at once bristled up, feigned indignation, and said that
he could not understand me.  This I pooh-poohed, saying that we understood each other perfectly;
that I had been only recently a student myself; that, if the growing trouble in the class continued,
either he or I must give it up, and added, ``I believe the trustees will prefer your departure
to mine.''  At this he protested that he had made no demonstrations, to which I answered that
if I put him on his honor he would not deny that he was the real center of the difficulty;
that the others were, comparatively, men of small account; and that, with him gone, the backbone
of the whole difficulty would be broken.  He seemed impressed by this view--possibly he was
not wholly displeased at the importance it gave him; and finally he acknowledged that perhaps
he had been rather foolish, and suggested that we try to live together a little longer.  I
answered cordially, we shook hands at parting, and there was never any trouble afterward. 
I soon found what sort of questions interested him most, took especial pains to adapt points
in my lectures to his needs, and soon had no stronger friend in the university.

But his activity finally found a less fortunate outcome.  A year or two afterward came news
of a terrible affair in the university town.  A student was lying dead at the coroner's rooms,
and on inquiry it was found that his death was the result of a carousal in which my friend
F---- was a leading spirit.  Eight men were concerned, of whom four were expelled--F---- being
one--and four suspended.  On leaving, he came to me and thanked me most heartily for what I
had done for him, said that the action of the faculty was perfectly just, that no other course
was open to us, but that he hoped yet to show us all that he could make a man of himself. 
He succeeded.  Five years later he fell as a general at the head of his brigade at Gettysburg.

In addition to my regular work at the university, I lectured frequently in various cities throughout
Michigan and the neighboring States.  It was the culminating period of the popular-lecture
system, and through the winter months my Friday and Saturday evenings were generally given
to this sort of duty.  It was, after its fashion, what in these days is called ``university
extension''; indeed, the main purpose of those members of the faculty thus invited to lecture
was to spread the influence of the university.  But I received from the system more than I
gave to it; for it gave me not only many valuable acquaintances throughout the West, but it
brought to Ann Arbor the best men then in the field, among them such as Emerson, Curtis, Whipple,
Wendell Phillips, Carl Schurz, Moncure Conway, Bayard Taylor, and others noted then, but, alas,
how few of them remembered now!  To have them by my fireside and at my table was one of the
greatest pleasures of a professorial life.  It was at the beginning of my housekeeping; and
under my roof on the university grounds we felt it a privilege to welcome these wise men from
the East, and to bring the faculty and students into closer relations with them.

As regards the popular-lecture pulpit, my main wish was to set people thinking on various subjects,
and especially regarding slavery and ``protection.''  This presently brought a storm upon me.
Some years before there had settled in the university town a thin, vociferous lawyer, past
his prime, but not without ideas and force.  He had for many years been a department subordinate
at Washington; but, having accumulated some money, he had donned what was then known as senatorial
costume-- namely, a blue swallow-tailed coat, and a buff vest, with brass buttons--and coming
to this little Michigan town he had established a Whig paper, which afterward became Republican.
He was generally credited, no doubt justly, with a determination to push himself into the United
States Senate; but this determination was so obvious that people made light of it, and he never
received the honor of a nomination to that or any other position.  The main burden of his editorials
was the greatness of Henry Clay, and the beauties of a protective tariff, his material being
largely drawn from a book he had published some years before; and, on account of the usual
form of his arguments, he was generally referred to, in the offhand Western way, as ``Old Statistics.''

In a public lecture based upon my Russian experiences, I had incidentally attacked paternal
government, and especially such developments of it as tariffs for protection.  The immediate
result was a broadside from this gentleman's paper, and this I answered in an article which
was extensively copied throughout the State.  At this he evidently determined to crush this
intruder upon his domain.  That an ``upstart''--a ``mere school-teacher''-- should presume
to reply to a man like himself, who had sat at the feet of Henry Clay, and was old enough to
be my father, was monstrous presumption; but that a professor in the State university of a
commonwealth largely Republican should avow free-trade opinions was akin to treason, and through
twelve successive issues of his paper he lashed me in all the moods and tenses.  As these attacks
soon became scurrilous, I made no reply to any after the first; but his wrath was increased
when he saw my reply quoted by the press throughout the State and his own diatribes neglected.
Among his more serious charges I remember but one, and this was that I had evidently come into
the State as a secret emissary of Van Burenism.  But I recalled the remark of my enemy's idol,
Henry Clay, to the effect that no one should ever reply to an attack by an editor, a priest,
or a woman, since each of them is sure to have the last word.  This feeling was soon succeeded
by indifference; for my lecture-rooms, both at the university and throughout the State, were
more and more frequented, and it became clear that my opponent's attacks simply advertised
me.  The following year I had my revenge.  From time to time debates on current topics were
held at the city hall, the participants being generally young professional men; but, the subject
of a tariff for protection having been announced, my old enemy declared, several weeks beforehand,
his intention of taking part in the discussion.  Among my students that winter was one of the
most gifted young scholars and speakers I have ever known.  Not long after his graduation he
was sent to the United States Senate from one of the more important Western States, and nothing
but his early death prevented his attaining a national reputation.  He was a man of convictions,
strong and skilful in impressing them upon his hearers, of fine personal appearance, with a
pleasing voice, and in every way fitted to captivate an audience.  Him I selected as the David
who was to punish the protectionist Goliath.  He had been himself a protectionist, having read
Greeley's arguments in the ``New York Tribune,'' but he had become a convert to my views, and
day after day and week after week I kept him in training on the best expositions of free trade,
and, above all, on Bastiat's ``Sophisms of Protection.''  On the appointed evening the city
hall was crowded, and my young David having modestly taken a back seat, the great Goliath appeared
at the front in full senatorial costume, furbished up for the occasion, with an enormous collection
of books and documents; and, the subject being announced, he arose, assumed his most imposing
senatorial attitude, and began a dry, statistical oration.  His manner was harsh, his matter
wearisome; but he plodded on through an hour --and then my David arose.  He was at his best.
In five minutes he had the audience fully with him.  Every point told.  From time to time the
house shook with applause; and at the close of the debate, a vote of the meeting being taken
after the usual fashion in such assemblies, my old enemy was left in a ridiculous minority.
Not only free-traders, but even protectionists voted against him.  As he took himself very
seriously, he was intensely mortified, and all the more so when he learned from one of my students
that I now considered that we were ``even.''[4]

[4] The causes of my change of views on the question of ``protection'' are given in my political
reminiscences.

The more I threw myself into the work of the university the more I came to believe in the ideas
on which it was founded, and to see that it was a reality embodying many things of which I
had previously only dreamed.  Up to that time the highest institutions of learning in the United
States were almost entirely under sectarian control.  Even the University of Virginia, which
Thomas Jefferson had founded as a center of liberal thought, had fallen under the direction
of sectarians, and among the great majority of the Northern colleges an unwritten law seemed
to require that a university president should be a clergyman.  The instruction in the best
of these institutions was, as I have shown elsewhere, narrow, their methods outworn, and the
students, as a rule, confined to one simple, single, cast-iron course, in which the great majority
of them took no interest.  The University of Michigan had made a beginning of something better.
The president was Dr. Henry Philip Tappan, formerly a Presbyterian clergyman, a writer of repute
on philosophical subjects, a strong thinker, an impressive orator, and a born leader of men,
who, during a visit to Europe, had been greatly impressed by the large and liberal system of
the German universities, and had devoted himself to urging a similar system in our own country.
On the Eastern institutions--save, possibly, Brown--he made no impression.  Each of them was
as stagnant as a Spanish convent, and as self-satisfied as a Bourbon duchy; but in the West
he attracted supporters, and soon his ideas began to show themselves effective in the State
university over which he had been called to preside.

The men he summoned about him were, in the main, admirably fitted to aid him.  Dearest of all
to me, though several years my senior, was Henry Simmons Frieze, professor of Latin.  I had
first met him at the University of Berlin, had then traveled with him through Germany and Italy,
and had found him one of the most charming men I had ever met--simple, modest, retiring to
a fault, yet a delightful companion and a most inspiring teacher.  There was in him a combination
which at first seemed singular; but experience has since shown me that it is by no means unnatural,
for he was not only an ideal professor of Latin, but a gifted musician.  The first revelation
of this latter quality was made to me in a manner which showed his modesty.  One evening during
our student days at Berlin, at a reception given by the American minister of that period,--Governor
Vroom of New Jersey,--I heard the sound of music coming from one of the more distant apartments.
It was a sonata of Beethoven, wonderfully interpreted, showing not only skill but deep feeling.
On my asking my neighbors who the performer might be, no one seemed to know, until, at last,
some one suggested that it might be Professor Frieze.  I made my way through the crowd toward
the room from which the sounds came, but before arriving there the music had ended; and when
I met the professor shortly afterward, and asked him if he had been the musician, his reply
was so modest and evasive that I thought the whole thing a mistake and said nothing more about
it.  On our way to Italy some months later, I observed that, as we were passing through Bohemia,
he jotted down in his note-book the quaint songs of the peasants and soldiers, and a few weeks
later still he gave an exhibition of his genius.  Sitting down one evening at the piano on
the little coasting steamer between Genoa and Civit<a!> Vecchia, he began playing, and though
it has been my good fortune to hear all the leading pianists of my time, I have never heard
one who seemed to interpret the masterpieces of music more worthily.  At Ann Arbor I now came
to know him intimately.  Once or twice a week he came to my house, and, as mine was the only
grand piano in the town, he enjoyed playing upon it.  His extemporizations were flights of
genius.  At these gatherings he was inspired by two other admirable musicians, one being my
dear wife, and the other Professor Brunnow, the astronomer.  Nothing could be more delightful
than their interpretations together of the main works of Beethoven Handel, Mozart, Haydn, Weber,
and other masters.  Next day, at St. Andrew's Church, he, as usual, had charge of the organ.
Into his opening voluntary he wove the music of the preceding evening, the ``Feste Burg'';
it ran through all the chants of the morning service; it pervaded the accompaniment to the
hymns; it formed the undertone of all the interludes; it was not relinquished until the close
of the postlude.  And the same was true of the afternoon service.  I have always insisted that,
had he lived in Germany, he would have been a second Beethoven.  This will seem a grossly exaggerated
tribute, but I do not hesitate to maintain it.  So passionately was he devoted to music that
at times he sent his piano away from his house in order to shun temptation to abridge his professorial
work, and especially was this the case when he was preparing his edition of Vergil.  A more
lovely spirit never abode in mortal frame.  No man was ever more generally beloved in a community;
none, more lamented at his death.  The splendid organ erected as a memorial to him in the great
auditorium of the university; the noble monument which his students have placed over his grave;
his portrait, which hangs in one of the principal rooms; the society which commemorates his
name--all combine to show how deeply he was respected and beloved.

Entwined also with my happiest recollections is Brunnow, professor of astronomy and director
of the observatory.  His eminence in his department was widely recognized, as was shown when
he was afterward made director of the Dudley Observatory at Albany, N. Y., and, finally, astronomer
royal of Ireland.  His musical abilities, in connection with those of Frieze, aided to give
a delightful side to this period of my life.  There was in him a quiet simplicity which led
those who knew him best to love him most, but it occasionally provoked much fun among the students.
On one occasion, President Tappan, being suddenly called out of town, requested Brunnow, who
had married his daughter and was an inmate of his family, to find some member of the faculty
to take his place at morning prayers next day.  Thereupon Brunnow visited sev- eral professors,
his first question to each of them being, with his German use of the consonants, ``Professor,
can you BRAY?'' and henceforward this was added to the many standing jokes upon him in the
student world.

I also found at the university other admirable men, and among those to whom I became specially
attached was Thomas M. Cooley.  When he had become chief justice of the State, and the most
eminent writer of his time on the Constitution of the United States, he was still the same
man, gentle, simple, and kindly.  Besides these were such well-known professors as Fasquelle
in modern literature; Williams, Douglass, and Winchell in science; Boise in Greek; Palmer,
Sager, and Gunn in medicine and surgery; Campbell and Walker in law.  Of these Judge Campbell
was to me one of the main attractions of the place--a profound lawyer, yet with a kindly humor
which lighted up all about him.  He was especially interested in the early French history of
the State, to which he had been drawn by his study of the titles to landed property in Detroit
and its neighborhood, and some of his discoveries were curious.  One of these had reference
to an island in the straits near Detroit known as ``Skillagalee,'' which had puzzled him a
long time.  The name seemed to be Irish, and the question was how an Irish name could have
been thus applied.  Finally he found on an old map an earlier name.  It was <I^>le aus Galets,
or Pebble Island, which, in the mouths of Yankee sailors, had taken this apparently Celtic
form.  Another case was that of a river in Canada emptying into the straits not far from Detroit.
It was known as ``Yellow Dog River''; but, on rummaging through the older maps, he discovered
that the earlier name was River St. John.  To account for the transformation was at first difficult,
but the mystery was finally unraveled: the Rivi<e!>re St. Jean became, in the Canadian patois,
Rivi<e!>re Saan Jawne, and gradually Rivi<e!>re Chien Jaune; recent geographers had simply
translated it into English.

The features which mainly distinguished the University of Michigan from the leading institutions
of the East were that it was utterly unsectarian, that various courses of instruction were
established, and that options were allowed between them.  On these accounts that university
holds a most important place in the history of American higher education; for it stands practically
at the beginning of the transition from the old sectarian college to the modern university,
and from the simple, single, cast-iron course to the form which we now know, in which various
courses are presented, with free choice between them.  The number of students was about five
hundred, and the faculty corresponded to these in numbers.  Now that the university includes
over four thousand students, with a faculty in proportion, those seem the days of small things;
but to me at that period it was all very grand.  It seemed marvelous that there were then very
nearly as many students at the University of Michigan as at Yale; and, as a rule, they were
students worth teaching--hardy, vigorous, shrewd, broad, with faith in the greatness of the
country and enthusiasm regarding the nation's future.  It may be granted that there was, in
many of them, a lack of elegance, but there was neither languor nor cynicism.  One seemed,
among them, to breathe a purer, stronger air.  Over the whole institution Dr. Tappan presided,
and his influence, both upon faculty and students, was, in the main, excellent.  He sympathized
heartily with the work of every professor, allowed to each great liberty, yet conducted the
whole toward the one great end of developing a university more and more worthy of our country.
His main qualities were of the best.  Nothing could be better than his discussions of great
questions of public policy and of education.  One of the noblest orations I have ever heard
was an offhand speech of his on receiving for the university museum a cast of the Laoco<o:>n
from the senior class; yet this speech was made without preparation, and in the midst of engrossing
labor.  He often showed, not only the higher qualities required in a position like his, but
a remarkable shrewdness and tact in dealing with lesser questions.  Typical was one example,
which taught me much when, in after years, I was called to similar duties at Cornell.  The
present tower and chime of the University of Michigan did not then exist; between the two main
buildings on the university grounds there was simply a wooden column, bearing a bell of moderate
size, which was rung at every lecture-hour by the principal janitor.  One cold winter night
those of us living in the immediate neighborhood heard the sound of axe-strokes.  Presently
there came a crash, and all was still.  Next morning, at the hour for chapel, no bell was rung;
it was found that the column had been cut down and the bell carried off.  A president of less
shrewdness would have declaimed to the students on the enormity of such a procedure, and have
accentuated his eloquence with threats.  Not so Dr. Tappan.  At the close of the morning prayers
he addressed the students humorously.  There was a great attendance, for all wished to know
how he would deal with the affair.  Nothing could be better than his matter and manner.  He
spoke somewhat on this wise:  ``Gentlemen, there has doubtless been a mistake in the theory
of some of you regarding the college bell.  It would seem that some have believed that if the
bell were destroyed, time would cease, and university exercises would be suspended.  But, my
friends, time goes on as ever, without the bell as with it; lectures and exercises of every
sort continue, of course, as usual.  The only thing which has occurred is that some of you
have thought it best to dispense with the aid in keeping time which the regents of the university
have so kindly given you.  Knowing that large numbers of you were not yet provided with watches,
the regents very thoughtfully provided the bell, and a man to ring it for you at the proper
hours; and they will doubtless be pleased to learn that you at last feel able to dispense with
it, and save them the expense of maintaining it.  You are trying an interesting experiment.
In most of the leading European universities, students get along perfectly without a bell;
why should we not?  In the interests  of the finances of the university, I am glad to see you
trying this experiment, and will only suggest that it be tried thoroughly.  Of course the rolls
will be called in the lecture-rooms promptly, as usual, and you will, of course, be present.
If the experiment succeeds, it will enable us to dispense with a university bell forever; but
if, after a suitable time, you decide that it is better to have the bell back again to remind
you of the hours, and if you will make a proper request to the regents through me, I trust
that they will allow you to restore it to its former position.''

The students were greatly amused to see the matter taken in this way.  They laughingly acknowledged
themselves outwitted, and greeted the doctor's speech with applause.  All of the faculty entered
into the spirit of the matter; rolls were called perhaps rather more promptly than formerly,
and students not present were marked rather more mercilessly than of old.  There was evidently
much reluctance on their part to ask for excuses, in view of the fact that they had themselves
abolished the bell which had enabled them to keep the time; and one morning, about a month
or six weeks later, after chapel, a big jolly student rose and asked permission to make a motion.
This motion was that the president of the university be requested to allow the students to
restore the bell to its former position.  The proposal was graciously received by the doctor,
put by him after the usual parliamentary manner, carried unanimously, and, a few mornings later,
the bell was found in its old place on a new column, was rung as usual, and matters went on
after the old fashion.

Every winter Dr. Tappan went before the legislature to plead the cause of the university, and
to ask for appropriations.  He was always heard with pleasure, since he was an excellent speaker;
but certain things militated against him.  First of all, he had much to say of the excellent
models furnished by the great German universities, and especially by those of Prussia.  This
gave demagogues in the legislature, anxious to make a reputation in buncombe, a great chance.
They orated to the effect that we wanted an American and not a Prussian system.  Moreover,
some unfortunate legends were developed.  Mrs. Tappan, a noble and lovely woman belonging to
the Livingston family, had been brought up in New York and New England, and could hardly suppress
her natural preference for her old home and friends.  A story grew that in an assembly of Michigan
ladies she once remarked that the doctor and herself considered themselves as ``missionaries
to the West.''  This legend spread far and wide.  It was resented, and undoubtedly cost the
doctor dear.

The worst difficulty by far which he had to meet was the steady opposition of the small sectarian
colleges scattered throughout the State.  Each, in its own petty interest, dreaded the growth
of any institution better than itself; each stirred the members of the legislature from its
locality to oppose all aid to the State university; each, in its religious assemblages, its
synods, conferences, and the like, sought to stir prejudice against the State institution as
``godless.''  The result was that the doctor, in spite of his eloquent speeches, became the
butt of various wretched demagogues in the legislature, and he very rarely secured anything
in the way of effective appropriations.  The university had been founded by a grant of public
lands from the United States to Michigan; and one of his arguments was based on the fact that
an immensely valuable tract, on which a considerable part of the city of Toledo now stands,
had been taken away from the university without any suitable remuneration.  But even this availed
little, and it became quite a pastime among demagogues at the State Capitol to bait the doctor.
On one of these occasions he was inspired to make a prophecy.  Disgusted at the poor, cheap
blackguardism, he shook the dust of the legislature off his feet, and said:  ``The day will
come when my students will take your places, and then something will be done.''  That prophecy
was fulfilled.  In a decade the leading men in the legislature began to be the graduates of
the State university; and now these graduates are largely in control, and they have dealt nobly
with their alma mater.  The State has justly become proud of it, and has wisely developed it.

Dr. Tappan's work was great, indeed.  He stood not only at the beginning of the institution
at Ann Arbor, but really at the beginning of the other universities of the Western States,
from which the country is gaining so much at present, and is sure to gain vastly more in the
future.  The day will come when his statue will commemorate his services.

But there was another feature in his administration to which I refer with extreme reluctance.
He had certain ``defects of his qualities.''  Big, hearty, frank, and generous, he easily became
the prey of those who wrought upon his feelings; and, in an evil hour, he was drawn into a
quarrel not his own, between two scientific professors.  This quarrel became exceedingly virulent;
at times it almost paralyzed the university, and finally it convulsed the State.  It became
the main object of the doctor's thoughts.  The men who had drawn him into it quietly retired
under cover, and left him to fight their battle in the open.  He did this powerfully, but his
victories were no less calamitous than his defeats; for one of the professors, when overcome,
fell back upon the church to which he belonged, and its conference was led to pass resolutions
warning Christian people against the university.  The forces of those hostile to the institution
were marshaled to the sound of the sectarian drum.  The quarrel at last became political; and
when the doctor unwisely entered the political field in hopes of defeating the candidates put
forward by his opponents, he was beaten at the polls, and his resignation followed.  A small
number of us, including Judge Cooley and Professors Frieze, Fasquelle, Boise, and myself, simply
maintained an ``armed neutrality,'' standing by the university, and refusing to be drawn into
this whirlpool of intrigue and objurgation.  Personally, we loved the doctor.  Every one of
us besought him to give up the quarrel, but in vain.  He would not; he could not.  It went
on till the crash came.  He was virtually driven from the State, retired to Europe, and never
returned.

Years afterward, the citizens of Michigan in all parts of the State sought to make amends to
him.  The great body of the graduates, who loved and respected him, with leading men throughout
the commonwealth, joined in a letter inviting him to return as a public guest; but he declined,
and never again saw his native land.  His first main place of residence was Basel, where, at
the university, he superintended the education of his grandson, who, at a later period, became
a professor at Heidelberg.  Finally, he retired to a beautiful villa on the shores of Lake
Leman and there, with his family about him, peacefully followed his chosen studies.  At his
death he was buried amid the vineyards and orchards of Vevey.

Though I absolutely refused to be drawn into any of his quarrels, my relations with the doctor
remained kindly and not a single feeling was left which marred my visit to him in after years
at Basel, or my later pilgrimage to his grave on the shores of Lake Leman.  To no man is any
success I may have afterward had in the administration of Cornell University so greatly due
as to him.

In this summary I have hardly touched upon the most important part of my duty,--namely, the
purpose of my lecture-courses, with their relations to that period in the history of our country,
and to the questions which thinking men, and especially thinking young men, were then endeavoring
to solve,--since all this has been given in my political reminiscences.

So much for my main work at the University of Michigan.  But I had one recreation which was
not without its uses.  The little city of Ann Arbor is a beautiful place on the Huron River,
and from the outset interested me.  Even its origin had a peculiar charm.  About a quarter
of a century before my arrival, three families came from the East to take up the land which
they had bought of the United States; and, as their three holdings touched each other at one
corner, they brought boughs of trees to that spot and erected a sort of hut, or arbor, in which
to live until their log houses were finished.  On coming together in this arbor they discovered
that the Christian name of each of the three wives was Ann: hence the name of the place; and
this fact gave a poetic coloring to it which was a permanent pleasure to me.  It was an unending
satisfaction to reflect that no misguided patriot had been allowed to inflict upon that charming
university town the name of ``Athens,'' or  ``Oxford,'' or ``Socratopolis,'' or ``Anacreonsburg,''
or ``Platoville,'' or ``Emporium,'' or ``Eudaimonia.''  What, but for those three good women,
the name might have been, may be judged from the fact that one of the founders of the university
did his best to have it called a ``Katholo<e:>pistemiad''!

But there was one drawback.  The ``campus,'' on which stood the four buildings then devoted
to instruction, greatly disappointed me.  It was a flat, square inclosure of forty acres, unkempt
and wretched.  Throughout its whole space there were not more than a score of trees outside
the building sites allotted to professors; unsightly plank walks connected the buildings, and
in every direction were meandering paths, which in dry weather were dusty and in wet weather
muddy.  Coming, as I did, from the glorious elms of Yale, all this distressed me, and one of
my first questions was why no trees had been planted.  The answer was that the soil was so
hard and dry that none would grow.  But on examining the territory in the neighborhood, especially
the little inclosures about the pretty cottages of the town, I found fine large trees, and
among them elms.  At this, without permission from any one, I began planting trees within the
university inclosure; established, on my own account, several avenues; and set out elms to
overshadow them.  Choosing my trees with care, carefully protecting and watering them during
the first two years, and gradually adding to them a considerable number of evergreens, I preached
practically the doctrine of adorning the campus.  Gradually some of my students joined me;
one class after another aided in securing trees and in planting them, others became interested,
until, finally, the university authorities made me ``superintendent of the grounds,'' and appropriated
to my work the munificent sum of seventy-five dollars a year.  So began the splendid growth
which now surrounds those buildings.  These trees became to me as my own children.  Whenever
I revisit Ann Arbor my first care is to go among them, to see how they prosper, and especially
how certain peculiar examples are flourishing; and at my recent visit, forty-six years after
their planting, I found one of the most beautiful academic groves to be seen in any part of
the world.

The most saddening thing during my connection with the university I have touched upon in my
political reminiscences.  Three years after my arrival the Civil War broke out, and there came
a great exodus of students into the armies, the vast majority taking up arms for the Union,
and a few for the Confederate States.  The very noblest of them thus went forth--many of them,
alas! never to return, and among them not a few whom I loved as brothers and even as my own
children.  Of all the experiences of my life, this was among the most saddening.

My immediate connection with the University of Michigan as resident professor of history lasted
about six years; and then, on account partly of business interests which resulted from the
death of my father, partly of my election to the New York State Senate, and partly of my election
to the presidency of Cornell University, I resided in central New York, but retained a lectureship
at the Western institution.  I left the work and the friends who had become so dear to me with
the greatest reluctance, and as long as possible I continued to revisit the old scenes, and
to give courses of lectures.  But at last my duties at Cornell absolutely forbade this, and
so ended a connection which was to me one of the most fruitful in useful experiences and pregnant
thoughts that I have ever known.  In that little stone barrack on the shore of Seneca Lake,
rude in its architecture but lovely in its surroundings, a room was assigned me during my first
year at college; and in a neighboring apartment, with charming views over the lake and distant
hills, was the library of the Hermean Society.  It was the largest collection of books I had
ever seen,--four thousand volumes,--embracing a mass of literature from ``The Pirate's Own
Book'' to the works of Lord Bacon.  In this paradise I reveled, browsing through it at my will.
This privilege was of questionable value, since it drew me somewhat from closer study; but
it was not without its uses.  One day I discovered in it Huber and Newman's book on the English
universities.  What a new world it opened!  My mind was sensitive to any impression it might
make, on two accounts: first, because, on the intellectual side, I was woefully disappointed
at the inadequacy of the little college as regarded its teaching force and equipment; and next,
because, on the esthetic side, I lamented the absence of everything like beauty or fitness
in its architecture.

As I read in this new-found book of the colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, and pored over the
engraved views of quadrangles, halls, libraries, chapels,--of all the noble and dignified belongings
of a great seat of learning, --my heart sank within me.  Every feature of the little American
college seemed all the more sordid.  But gradually I began consoling myself by building air-castles.
These took the form of structures suited to a great university:--with distinguished professors
in every field, with libraries as rich as the Bodleian, halls as lordly as that of Christ Church
or of Trinity, chapels as inspiring as that of King's, towers as dignified as those of Magdalen
and Merton, quadrangles as beautiful as those of Jesus and St. John's.  In the midst of all
other occupations I was constantly rearing these structures on that queenly site above the
finest of the New York lakes, and dreaming of a university worthy of the commonwealth and of
the nation.  This dream became a sort of obsession.  It came upon me during my working hours,
in the class-rooms, in rambles along the lake shore, in the evenings, when I paced up and down
the walks in front of the college buildings, and saw rising in their place and extending to
the pretty knoll behind them, the worthy home of a great university.  But this university,
though beautiful and dignified, like those at Oxford and Cambridge, was in two important respects
very unlike them.  First, I made provision for other studies beside classics and mathematics.
There should be professors in the great modern literatures--above all, in our own; there should
also be a professor of modern history and a lecturer on architecture.  And next, my university
should be under control of no single religious organization; it should be free from all sectarian
or party trammels; in electing its trustees and professors no questions should be asked as
to their belief or their attachment to this or that sect or party.  So far, at least, I went
in those days along the road toward the founding of Cornell.

The academic year of 1849-1850 having been passed at this little college in western New York,
I entered Yale.  This was nearer my ideal; for its professors were more distinguished, its
equipment more adequate, its students more numerous, its general scope more extended.  But
it was still far below my dreams.  Its single course in classics and mathematics, through which
all students were forced alike, regardless of their tastes, powers, or aims; its substitution
of gerund-grinding for ancient literature; its want of all instruction in modern literature;
its substitution of recitals from text-books for instruction in history--all this was far short
of my ideal.  Moreover, Yale was then far more under denominational control than at present--its
president, of necessity, as was then supposed, a Congregational minister; its professors, as
a rule, members of the same sect; and its tutors, to whom our instruction during the first
two years was almost entirely confined, students in the Congregational Divinity.

Then, too, its outward representation was sordid and poor.  The long line of brick barracks,
the cheapest which could be built for money, repelled me.  What a contrast to Oxford and Cambridge,
and, above all, to my air- castles!  There were, indeed, two architectural consolations: one,
the library building, which had been built just before my arrival; and the other, the Alumni
Hall, begun shortly afterward.  These were of stone, and I snatched an especial joy from the
grotesque Gothic heads in the cornices of the library towers and from the little latticed windows
at the rear of the Alumni Hall.  Both seemed to me features worthy of ``colleges and halls
of ancient days.''

The redeeming feature of the whole was its setting, the ``green,'' with superb avenues overarched
by elms; and a further charm was added by East and West Rock, and by the views over New Haven
Harbor into Long Island Sound.  Among these scenes I erected new air- castles.  First of all,
a great quadrangle, not unlike that which is now developing at Yale, and, as a leading feature,
a gate-tower like that since erected in memory of William Walter Phelps, but, unlike that,
adorned with statues in niches and on corbels, like those on the entrance tower of Trinity
at Cambridge--statues of old Yalensian worthies, such as Elihu Yale in his costume of the Georgian
period, Bishop Berkeley in his robes, President Dwight in his Geneva gown, and Nathan Hale
in fetters.  There was also in my dream another special feature, which no one has as yet attempted
to realize--a lofty campanile, which I placed sometimes at the intersection of College and
Church, and sometimes at the intersection of College and Elm streets--a clock-tower looking
proudly down the slope, over the traffic of the town, and bearing a deep-toned peal of bells.

My general ideas on the subject were further developed by Charles Astor Bristed's book, ``Five
Years in an English University,'' and by sundry publications regarding student life in Germany.
Still, my opinions regarding education were wretchedly imperfect, as may be judged from one
circumstance.  The newly established Sheffield Scientific School had just begun its career
in the old president's house in front of the former Divinity Hall on the college green; and,
one day in my senior year, looking toward it from my window in North College, I saw a student
examining a colored liquid in a test-tube.  A feeling of wonder came over me!  What could it
all be about?  Probably not a man of us in the whole senior class had any idea of a chemical
laboratory save as a sort of small kitchen back of a lecture-desk, like that in which an assistant
and a colored servant prepared oxygen, hydrogen, and carbonic acid for the lectures of Professor
Silliman.  I was told that this new laboratory was intended for experiment, and my wonder was
succeeded by disgust that any human being should give his time to pursuits so futile.

The next period in the formation of my ideas regarding a university began, after my graduation
at Yale, during my first visit to Oxford.  Then and at later visits, both to Oxford and Cambridge,
I not only reveled in the architectural glories of those great seats of learning, but learned
the advantages of college life in common--of the ``halls,'' and the general social life which
they promote; of  the ``commons'' and ``combination rooms,'' which give a still closer relation
between those most directly concerned in university work; of the quadrangles, which give a
sense of scholarly seclusion, even in the midst of crowded cities; and of all the surroundings
which give a dignity befitting these vast establishments.  Still more marked progress in my
ideas was made during my attendance at the Sorbonne and the Coll<e!>ge de France.  In those
institutions, during the years 1853-1854, I became acquainted with the French university-lecture
system, with its clearness, breadth, wealth of illustration, and its hold upon large audiences
of students; and I was seized with the desire to transfer something like it to our own country.
My castles in the air were now reared more loftily and broadly; for they began to include laboratories,
museums, and even galleries of art.

Even St. Petersburg, during my attach<e'>ship in 1854- 1855, contributed to these airy structures.
In my diary for that period, I find it jotted down that I observed and studied at various times
the Michael Palace in that city as a very suitable structure for a university.  Twenty years
afterward, when I visited, as minister of the United States, the Grand Duchess Catherine, the
aunt of the Emperor Alexander III, in that same palace, and mentioned to her my old admiration
for it, she gave me a most interesting account of the building of it, and of the laying out
of the beautiful park about it by her father, the old Grand Duke Michael, and agreed with me
that it would be a noble home for an institution of learning.

My student life at Berlin, during the year following, further intensified my desire to do something
for university education in the United States.  There I saw my ideal of a university not only
realized, but extended and glorified-- with renowned professors, with ample lecture-halls,
with everything possible in the way of illustrative materials, with laboratories, museums,
and a concourse of youth from all parts of the world.

I have already spoken, in the chapter on my professorship  at the University of Michigan, regarding
the influence on my ideas of its president, Henry Philip Tappan, and of the whole work in that
institution.  Though many good things may be justly said for the University of Virginia, the
real beginning of a university in the United States, in the modern sense, was made by Dr. Tappan
and his colleagues at Ann Arbor.  Its only defects seemed to me that it included no technical
side, and did not yet admit women.  As to the first of these defects, the State had separated
the agricultural college from the university, placing it in what, at that period, was a remote
swamp near the State Capitol, and had as yet done nothing toward providing for other technical
branches.  As to the second, though a few of us favored the admission of women, President Tappan
opposed it; and, probably, in view of the condition of the university and of public opinion
at that time, his opposition was wise.

Recalled to Syracuse after five years in Michigan, my old desire to see a university rising
in the State of New York was stronger than ever.  Michigan had shown me some of my ideals made
real; why might not our own much greater commonwealth be similarly blessed?

The first thing was to devise a plan for a suitable faculty.  As I felt that this must not
demand too large an outlay, I drew up a scheme providing for a few resident teachers supported
by endowments, and for a body of nonresident professors or lecturers supported by fees.  These
lecturers were to be chosen from the most eminent professors in the existing colleges and from
the best men then in the public-lecture field; and my confidant in the matter was George William
Curtis, who entered into it heartily, and who afterward, in his speech at my inauguration as
president of Cornell, referred to it in a way which touched me deeply.[5]

[5] See Mr. Curtis's speech, September 8, 1868, published by the university.

The next thing was to decide upon a site.  It must naturally be in the central part of the
State; and, rather curiously, that which I then most coveted, frequently visited, walked about,
and inspected was the rising ground southeast of Syracuse since selected by the Methodists
for their institution which takes its name from that city.

My next effort was to make a beginning of an endowment, and for this purpose I sought to convert
Gerrit Smith.  He was, for those days, enormously wealthy.  His property, which was estimated
at from two to three millions of dollars, he used munificently; and his dear friend and mine,
Samuel Joseph May, had told me that it was not too much to hope that Mr. Smith might do something
for the improvement of higher instruction.  To him, therefore, I wrote, proposing that if he
would contribute an equal sum to a university at Syracuse, I would give to it one half of my
own property.  In his answer he gave reasons why he could not join in the plan, and my scheme
seemed no nearer reality than my former air-castles.  It seemed, indeed, to have faded away like

     ``The baseless fabric of a vision''

and to have left

     ``Not a wrack behind''--

when all its main features were made real in a way and by means utterly unexpected; for now
began the train of events which led to my acquaintance, friendship, and close alliance with
the man through whom my plans became a reality, larger and better than any ever seen in my
dreams --Ezra Cornell.

CHAPTER XVIII

EZRA CORNELL--1864-1874

On the first day of the year 1864, taking my seat for the first time in the State Senate at
Albany, I found among my associates a tall, spare man, apparently very reserved and austere,
and soon learned his name--Ezra Cornell.

Though his chair was near mine, there was at first little intercourse between us, and there
seemed small chance of more.  He was steadily occupied, and seemed to have no desire for new
acquaintances.  He was, perhaps, the oldest man in the Senate; I, the youngest: he was a man
of business; I was fresh from a university professorship: and, upon the announcement of committees,
our paths seemed separated entirely; for he was made chairman of the committee on agriculture,
while to me fell the chairmanship of the committee on education.

Yet it was this last difference which drew us together; for among the first things referred
to my committee was a bill to incorporate a public library which he proposed to found in Ithaca.

On reading this bill I was struck, not merely by his gift of one hundred thousand dollars to
his townsmen, but even more by a certain breadth and largeness in his way of making it.  The
most striking sign of this was his mode of forming a board of trustees; for, instead of the
usual effort to tie up the organization forever in some sect, party, or clique, he had named
the best men of his town-- his political opponents as well as his friends; and had added to
them the pastors of all the principal churches, Catholic and Protestant.  This breadth of mind,
even more than his munificence, drew me to him.  We met several times, discussed his bill,
and finally I reported it substantially as introduced, and supported it until it became a law.

Our next relations were not, at first, so pleasant.  The great Land Grant of 1862, from the
General Government to the State, for industrial and technical education, had been turned over,
at a previous session of the legislature, to an institution called the People's College, in
Schuyler County; but the Agricultural College, twenty miles distant from it, was seeking to
take away from it a portion of this endowment; and among the trustees of this Agricultural
College was Mr. Cornell, who now introduced a bill to divide the fund between the two institutions.

On this I at once took ground against him, declaring that the fund ought to be kept together
at some one institution; that on no account should it be divided; that the policy for higher
education in the State of New York should be concentration; that we had already suffered sufficiently
from scattering our resources; that there were already over twenty colleges in the State, and
not one of them doing anything which could justly be called university work.

Mr. Cornell's first effort was to have his bill referred, not to my committee, but to his;
here I resisted him, and, as a solution of the difficulty, it was finally referred to a joint
committee made up of both.  On this double-headed committee I deliberately thwarted his purpose
throughout the entire session, delaying action and preventing any report upon his bill.

Most men would have been vexed by this; but he took my course calmly, and even kindly.  He
never expostulated, and always listened attentively to my arguments against his view; meanwhile
I omitted no opportunity to make these arguments as strong as possible, and especially to impress
upon him the importance of keeping the fund together.

After the close of the session, during the following summer, as it had become evident that
the trustees of the People's College had no intention of raising the additional endowment and
providing the equipment required by the act which gave them the land grant, there was great
danger that the whole fund might be lost to the State by the lapsing of the time allowed in
the congressional act for its acceptance.  Just at this period Mr. Cornell invited me to attend
a meeting of the State Agricultural Society, of which he was the president, at Rochester; and,
when the meeting had assembled, he quietly proposed to remove the difficulty I had raised,
by drawing a new bill giving the State Agricultural College half of the fund, and by inserting
a clause requiring the college to provide an additional sum of three hundred thousand dollars.
This sum he pledged himself to give, and, as the comptroller of the State had estimated the
value of the land grant at six hundred thousand dollars, Mr. Cornell supposed that this would
obviate my objection, since the fund of the Agricultural College would thus be made equal to
the whole original land-grant fund as estimated, which would be equivalent to keeping the whole
fund together.

The entire audience applauded, as well they might: it was a noble proposal.  But, much to the
disgust of the meeting, I persisted in my refusal to sanction any bill dividing the fund, declared
myself now more opposed to such a division than ever; but promised that if Mr. Cornell and
his friends would ask for the WHOLE grant--keeping it together, and adding his three hundred
thousand dollars, as proposed--I would support such a bill with all my might.

I was led to make this proposal by a course of circumstances which might, perhaps, be called
``providential.''  For some years I had been dreaming of a university; had looked into the
questions involved, at home and abroad; had approached sundry wealthy and influential men on
the subject; but had obtained no encouragement, until this strange and unexpected combination
of circumstances--a great land grant, the use of which was to be determined largely by the
committee of which I was chairman, and this noble pledge by Mr. Cornell.

Yet for some months nothing seemed to come of our conference.  At the assembling of the legislature
in the following year, it was more evident than ever that the trustees of the People's College
intended to do nothing.  During the previous session they had promised through their agents
to supply the endowment required by their charter; but, though this charter obliged them, as
a condition of taking the grant, to have an estate of two hundred acres, buildings for the
accommodation of two hundred students, and a faculty of not less than six professors, with
a sufficient library and other apparatus, yet our committee, on again taking up the subject,
found hardly the faintest pretense of complying with these conditions.  Moreover, their charter
required that their property should be free from all encumbrance; and yet the so-called donor
of it, Mr. Charles Cook, could not be induced to cancel a small mortgage which he held upon
it.  Still worse, before the legislature had been in session many days, it was found that his
agent had introduced a bill to relieve the People 's College of all conditions, and to give
it, without any pledge whatever, the whole land grant, amounting to very nearly a million of acres.

But even worse than this was another difficulty.  In addition to the strong lobby sent by Mr.
Cook to Albany in behalf of the People's College, there came representatives of nearly all
the smaller denominational colleges in the State, men eminent and influential, clamoring for
a division of the fund among their various institutions, though the fragment which would have
fallen to each would not have sufficed to endow even a single professorship.

While all this was uncertain, and the fund seemed likely to be utterly frittered away, I was
one day going down from the State Capitol, when Mr. Cornell joined me and began conversation.
He was, as usual, austere and reserved in appearance; but I had already found that below this
appearance there was a warm heart and noble purpose.  No observant associate could fail to
notice that the only measures in the legislature which he cared for were those proposing some
substantial good to the State or nation, and that he despised all political wrangling and partizan
jugglery.

On this occasion, after some little general talk, he quietly said, ``I have about half a million
dollars more than my family will need: what is the best thing I can do with it for the State?''
I answered:  `` Mr. Cornell, the two things most worthy of aid in any country are charity and
education; but, in our country, the charities appeal to everybody.  Any one can understand
the importance of them, and the worthy poor or unfortunate are sure to be taken care of.  As
to education, the lower grades will always be cared for in the public schools by the State;
but the institutions of the highest grade, without which the lower can never be thoroughly
good, can be appreciated by only a few.  The policy of our State is to leave this part of the
system to individuals; it seems to me, then, that if you have half a million to give, the best
thing you can do with it is to establish or strengthen some institution for higher instruction.''
I then went on to show him the need of a larger institution for such instruction than the State
then had; that such a college or university worthy of the State would require far more in the
way of faculty and equipment than most men supposed; that the time had come when scientific
and technical education must be provided for in such an institution; and that education in
history and literature should be the bloom of the whole growth.

He listened attentively, but said little.  The matter seemed to end there; but not long afterward
he came to me and said:  ``I agree with you that the land-grant fund ought to be kept together,
and that there should be a new institution fitted to the present needs of the State and the
country.  I am ready to pledge to such an institution a site and five hundred thousand dollars
as an addition to the land-grant endowment, instead of three hundred thousand, as I proposed
at Rochester.''

As may well be imagined, I hailed this proposal joyfully, and soon sketched out a bill embodying
his purpose so far as education was concerned.  But here I wish to say that, while Mr. Cornell
urged Ithaca as the site of the proposed institution, he never showed any wish to give his
own name to it.  The suggestion to that effect was mine.  He at first doubted the policy of
it; but, on my insisting that it was in accordance with time-honored American usage, as shown
by the names of Harvard, Yale, Dartmouth, Amherst, Bowdoin, Brown, Williams, and the like,
he yielded.

We now held frequent conferences as to the leading features of the institution to be created.
In these I was more and more impressed by his sagacity and largeness of view; and, when the
sketch of the bill was fully developed,--its financial features by him, and its educational
features by me,--it was put into shape by Charles J. Folger of Geneva, then chairman of the
judiciary committee of the Senate, afterward chief judge of the Court of Appeals, and finally
Secretary of the Treasury of the United States.  The provision forbidding any sectarian or
partizan predominance in the board of trustees or faculty was proposed by me, heartily acquiesced
in by Mr. Cornell, and put into shape by Judge Folger.  The State-scholarship feature and the
system of alumni representation on the board of trustees were also accepted by Mr. Cornell
at my suggestion.

I refer to these things especially because they show one striking characteristic of the man--namely,
his readiness to be advised largely by others in matters which he felt to be outside his own
province, and his willingness to give the largest measure of confidence when he gave any confidence
at all.

On the other hand, the whole provision for the endowment, the part relating to the land grant,
and, above all, the supplementary legislation allowing him to make a contract with the State
for ``locating'' the lands, were thought out entirely by himself; and in all these matters
he showed, not only a public spirit far beyond that displayed by any other benefactor of education
in his time, but a foresight which seemed to me then, and seems to me now, almost miraculous.
He alone, of all men in the United States, was able to foresee what might be done by an individual
to develop the land-grant fund, and he alone was willing to make the great personal sacrifice
thereby required.

But, while he thus left the general educational features to me, he uttered, during one of our
conversations, words which showed that he had arrived at the true conception of a university.
He expressed the hope that in the proposed institution every student might find instruction
in whatever study interested him.  Hence came the legend now surrounding his medallion portrait
upon the university seal:  ``I would found an institution where any person can find instruction
in any study.''

The introduction of this new bill into the legislature was a signal for war.  Nearly all the
denominational colleges girded themselves for the fray, and sent their agents to fight us at
Albany; they also stirred up the secular press, without distinction of party, in the regions
where they were situated, and the religious organs of their various sects in the great cities.

At the center of the movement against us was the People's College; it had rallied in force
and won over the chairman of the educational committee in the Assembly, so that under various
pretexts he delayed considering the bill.  Worst of all, there appeared against us, late in
the session, a professor from the Genesee College--a man of high character and great ability;
and he did his work most vigorously.  He brought the whole force of his sect to bear upon the
legislature, and insisted that every other college in the State had received something from
the public funds, while his had received none.

As a first result came a proposal from some of his associates that twenty-five thousand dollars
of the land-grant fund be paid to Genesee College; but this the friends of the Cornell bill
resisted, on the ground that, if the fund were broken into in one case, it would be in others.

It was next proposed that Mr. Cornell should agree to give twenty-five thousand dollars to
Genesee College on the passage of the bill.  This Mr. Cornell utterly refused, saying that
not for the passage of any bill would he make any private offer or have any private understanding;
that every condition must be put into the bill, where all men could see it; and that he would
then accept or reject it as he might think best.  The result was that our opponents forced
into the bill a clause requiring him to give twenty- five thousand dollars to Genesee College,
before he could be allowed to give five hundred thousand dollars to the proposed university;
and the friends of the bill, not feeling strong enough to resist this clause, and not being
willing to see the enterprise wrecked for the want of it, allowed it to go unopposed.  The
whole matter was vexatious to the last degree.  A man of less firmness and earnestness, thus
treated, would have thrown up his munificent purpose in disgust; but Mr. Cornell quietly persevered.

Yet the troubles of the proposed university had only begun.  Mr. Charles Cook, who, during
his senatorship, had secured the United States land grant of 1862 for the People's College,
was a man of great force, a born leader of men, anxious to build up his part of the State,
and especially the town from which he came, though he had no special desire to put any considerable
part of his own wealth into a public institution.  He had seen the opportunities afforded by
the land grant, had captured it, and was now determined to fight for it.  The struggle became
bitter.  His emissaries, including the members of the Senate and Assembly from his part of
the State, made common cause with the sectarian colleges, and with various corporations and
persons who, having bills of their own in the legislature, were ready to exchange services
and votes.

The coalition of all these forces against the Cornell University bill soon became very formidable,
and the committee on education in the Assembly, to which the bill had been referred, seemed
more and more controlled by them.  Our only hope now was to enlighten the great body of the
senators and assemblymen.  To this end Mr. Cornell invited them by squads, sometimes to his
rooms at Congress Hall, sometimes to mine at the Delavan House.  There he laid before them
his general proposal and the financial side of the plan, while I dwelt upon the need of a university
in the true sense of the word; upon the opportunity now offered by this great fund; upon the
necessity of keeping it together; upon the need of large means to carry out any scheme of technical
and general education such as was contemplated by the congressional act of 1862; showed the
proofs that the People's College would and could do nothing to meet this want; that division
of the fund among the existing colleges was simply the annihilation of it; and, in general,
did my best to enlighten the reason and arouse the patriotism of the members on the subject
of a worthy university in our State.  These points and others were finally embodied in my speech
before the Senate, and this having been published in the ``Albany Journal,'' Mr. Cornell provided
for its circulation broadcast over the State and thus aroused public opinion.

In this way we won to our support several strong friends in both Houses, among them some men
of great natural force of character who had never enjoyed the privilege of much early education,
but who were none the less anxious that those who came after them should have the best opportunities.
Of these I may name especially Senators Cook of Saratoga and Ames of Oswego.  Men of high education
and culture also aided us, especially Mr. Andrews, Mr. Havens, and, finally, Judge Folger in
the Senate, with Mr. Lord and Mr. Weaver in the Assembly.

While we were thus laboring with the legislature as a whole, serious work had to be done with
the Assembly committee; and Mr. Cornell employed a very eminent lawyer to present his case,
while Mr. Cook employed one no less noted to take the opposite side.  The session of the committee
was held in the Assembly chamber, and there was a large attendance of spectators; but, unfortunately,
the lawyer employed by Mr. Cornell having taken little pains with the case, his speech was
cold, labored, perfunctory, and fell flat.  The speech on the other side was much more effective;
it was thin and demagogical, but the speaker knew well the best tricks for catching the average
man.  He indulged in eloquent tirades against the Cornell bill as a ``monopoly,'' a ``wild
project,'' a ``selfish scheme,'' a ``job,'' a ``grab,'' and the like; denounced Mr. Cornell
as ``seeking to erect a monument to himself''; hinted that he was ``planning to rob the State'';
and, before he had finished, had pictured Mr. Cornell as a swindler and the rest of us as dupes
or knaves.

I can never forget the quiet dignity with which Mr. Cornell took this abuse.  Mrs. Cornell
sat at his right, I at his left.  In one of the worst tirades against him, he turned to me
and said quietly, and without the slightest anger or excitement:  ``If I could think of any
other way in which half a million of dollars would do as much good to the State, I would give
the legislature no more trouble.''  Shortly afterward, when the invective was again especially
bitter, he turned to me and said:  ``I am not sure but that it would be a good thing for me
to give the half a million to old Harvard College in Massachusetts, to educate the descendants
of the men who hanged my forefathers.''

There was more than his usual quaint humor in this --there was that deep reverence which he
always bore toward his Quaker ancestry, and which seemed to have become part of him.  I admired
Mr. Cornell on many occasions, but never more than during that hour when he sat, without the
slightest anger, mildly taking the abuse of that prostituted pettifogger, the indifference
of the committee, and the laughter of the audience.  It was a scene for a painter, and I trust
that some day it will be fitly perpetuated for the university.

This struggle being ended, the Assembly committee could not be induced to report the bill.
It was easy, after such a speech, for its members to pose as protectors of the State against
a swindler and a monopoly; the chairman, who, shortly after the close of the session, was mysteriously
given a position in the New York custom-house, made pretext after pretext without reporting,
until it became evident that we must have a struggle in the Assembly and drag the bill out
of the committee in spite of him.  To do this required a two-thirds vote.  All our friends
were set to work, and some pains taken to scare the corporations which had allied themselves
with the enemy, in regard to the fate of their own bills, by making them stand that, unless
they stopped their interested opposition to the university bill in the House, a feeling would
be created in the Senate very unfortunate for them.  In this way their clutch upon sundry members
of the Assembly was somewhat relaxed, and these were allowed to vote according to their consciences.

The Cornell bill was advocated most earnestly in the House by Mr. Henry B. Lord: in his unpretentious
way he marshaled the university forces, and moved that the bill be taken from the committee
and referred to the Committee of the Whole.  Now came a struggle.  Most of the best men in
the Assembly stood by us; but the waverers --men who feared local pressure, sectarian hostility,
or the opposition of Mr. Cook to measures of their own-- attempted, if not to oppose the Cornell
bill, at least to evade a vote upon it.  In order to give them a little tone and strength,
Mr. Cornell went with me to various leading editors in the city of New York, and we explained
the whole matter to them, securing editorial articles favorable to the university, the most
prominent among these gentlemen being Horace Greeley of the ``Tribune,'' Eras- tus Brooks of
the ``Express,'' and Manton Marble of the ``World.''  This did much for us, yet when the vote
was taken the old cowardice was again shown; but several of us stood in the cloak-room and
fairly shamed the waverers back into their places.  As a result, to the surprise and disgust
of the chairman of the Assembly committee, the bill was taken out of his control, and referred
to the Committee of the Whole House.

Another long struggle now ensued, but the bill was finally passed in the Assembly and came
back to the Senate.  There the struggle was renewed, all kinds of delaying tactics were resorted
to, but the bill was finally carried, and received the signature of Governor Fenton.

Now came a new danger.  During their struggle against the bill, our enemies had been strong
enough to force into it a clause enabling the People's College to retain the land fund, provided
that institution should be shown, within six months of the passage of the bill, to be in possession
of a sum such as the Board of Regents should declare would enable it to comply with the conditions
on which it had originally received the grant.  The Board of Regents now reported that the
possession of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars would be sufficient for such a compliance,
and would insure the fund to the People's College.  Naturally we watched, in much uneasy suspense,
during those six months, to see whether Mr. Cook and the People's College authorities would
raise this sum of money, so small in comparison with that which Mr. Cornell was willing to
give, in order to secure the grant.  But our fears were baseless; and on the fifth day of September,
1865, the trustees of Cornell University were assembled for the first time at Ithaca.

Then came to them a revelation of a quality in Mr. Cornell unknown to most of them before.
In one of the petitions forwarded from Ithaca to the legislature by his fellow-citizens it
had been stated that ``he never did less than he promised, but generally more.''  So it was
found in this case.  He turned over to the trustees, not only the securities for the five hundred
thousand dollars required by the charter, but also gave two hundred acres of land as a site.
Thus came into being Cornell University.

Yet the services of Mr. Cornell had only begun: he at once submitted to us a plan for doing
what no other citizen had done for any other State.  In the other commonwealths which had received
the land grant, the authorities had taken the scrip representing the land, sold it at the market
price, and, as the market was thus glutted, had realized but a small sum; but Mr. Cornell,
with that foresight which was his most striking characteristic, saw clearly what could be done
by using the scrip to take up land for the institution.  To do this he sought aid in various
ways; but no one dared join him, and at last he determined to bear the whole burden himself.
Scrip representing over seven hundred thousand acres still remained in the hands of the comptroller.
The trustees received Mr. Cornell's plan for dealing with the scrip somewhat doubtfully, but
the enabling act was passed, by which he was permitted to ``locate'' this land for the benefit
of the university.  So earnest was he in this matter that he was anxious to take up the entire
amount, but here his near friends interposed: we saw too well what a crushing load the taxes
and other expenses on such a vast tract of land would become before it could be sold to advantage.
Finally he yielded somewhat: it was agreed that he should take up five hundred thousand acres,
and he now gave himself day and night to this great part of the enterprise, which was to provide
a proper financial basis for a university such as we hoped to found.

Meanwhile, at Mr. Cornell's suggestion, I devoted myself to a more careful plan of the new
institution; and, at the next meeting of the board, presented a ``plan of organization,'' which
sketched out the purpose and constitution of such a university as seemed needed in a great
commonwealth like ours.  Mr. Cornell studied it carefully, gave it his approval, and a copy
of it with marginal notes in his own hand is still preserved.

I had supposed that this was to end my relations with Mr. Cornell, so far as the university
was concerned.  A multitude of matters seemed to forbid my taking any further care for it,
and a call to another position very attractive to me drew me away from all thought of connection
with it, save, perhaps, such as was involved in meeting the trustees once or twice a year.

Mr. Cornell had asked me, from time to time, whether I could suggest any person for the presidency
of the university.  I mentioned various persons, and presented the arguments in their favor.
One day he said to me quietly that he also had a candidate; I asked him who it was, and he
said that he preferred to keep the matter to himself until the next meeting of the trustees.
Nothing more passed between us on that subject.  I had no inkling of his purpose, but thought
it most likely that his candidate was a Western gentleman whose claims had been strongly pressed
upon him.  When the trustees came together, and the subject was brought up, I presented the
merits of various gentlemen, especially of one already at the head of an important college
in the State, who, I thought, would give us success.  Upon this, Mr. Cornell rose, and, in
a very simple but earnest speech, presented my name.  It was entirely unexpected by me, and
I endeavored to show the trustees that it was impossible for me to take the place in view of
other duties; that it needed a man of more robust health, of greater age, and of wider reputation
in the State.  But Mr. Cornell quietly persisted, our colleagues declared themselves unanimously
of his opinion, and, with many misgivings, I gave a provisional acceptance.

The relation thus begun ended only with Mr. Cornell's life, and from first to last it grew
more and more interesting to me.  We were thrown much together at Albany, at Ithaca, and on
various journeys undertaken for the university; and, the more I saw of him, the deeper became
my respect for him.  There were, indeed, toward the end of his life, some things trying to
one of my temperament, and among these things I may mention his exceeding reticence,  and his
willingness not only to labor but to wait; but these stood not at all in the way of my respect
and affection for him.

His liberality was unstinted.  While using his fortune in taking up the lands, he was constantly
doing generous things for the university and those connected with it.  One of the first of
these was his gift of the library in classical literature collected by Dr. Charles Anthon of
Columbia College.  Nothing could apparently be more outside his sympathy than the department
needing these seven thousand volumes; but he recognized its importance in the general plan
of the new institution, bought the library for over twelve thousand dollars, and gave it to
the university.

Then came the Jewett collection in geology, which he gave at a cost of ten thousand dollars;
the Ward collection of casts, at a cost of three thousand; the Newcomb collection in conchology,
at a cost of sixteen thousand; an addition to the university grounds, valued at many thousands
more; and it was only the claims of a multitude of minor university matters upon his purse
which prevented his carrying out a favorite plan of giving a great telescope, at a cost of
fifty thousand dollars.  At a later period, to extinguish the university debt, to increase
the equipment, and eventually to provide free scholarships and fellowships, he made an additional
gift of about eighty thousand dollars.

While doing these things, he was constantly advancing large sums in locating the university
lands, and in paying university salaries, for which our funds were not yet available; while
from time to time he made many gifts which, though smaller, were no less striking evidences
of the largeness of his view.  I may mention a few among these as typical.

Having found, in the catalogue of a London book- seller, a set of Piranesi's great work on
the ``Antiquities of Rome,''--a superb copy, the gift of a pope to a royal duke,--I showed
it to him, when he at once ordered it for our library at a cost of about a thousand dollars.
At another time, seeing the need of some costly works to illustrate agriculture, he gave them
to us at a somewhat greater cost; and, having heard Professor Tyndall's lectures in New York,
he bought additional physical apparatus to enable our resident professor to repeat the lectures
at Ithaca, and this cost him fifteen hundred dollars.

Characteristic of him, too, was another piece of quiet munificence.  When the clause forced
into the university charter, requiring him to give twenty-five thousand dollars to another
institution before he could be allowed to give half a million to his own, was noised abroad
through the State, there was a general feeling of disgust; and at the next session of the legislature
a bill was brought in to refund the twenty-five thousand dollars to him.  Upon this, he remarked
that what he once gave he never took back, but that if the university trustees would accept
it he had no objection.  The bill was modified to this effect, and thus the wrong was righted.

During my stay in Europe, through the summer of 1868, under instructions to study various institutions
for technical education, to make large purchases of books, and to secure one or two men greatly
needed in special departments not then much cultivated in this country, his generosity was
unfailing.  Large as were the purchases which I was authorized to make, the number of desirable
things outside this limit steadily grew larger; but my letters to him invariably brought back
the commission to secure this additional material.

During this occupation of mine in Europe, he was quite as busy in the woods of the upper Mississippi
and on the plains of Kansas, selecting university lands.  No fatigue or expenditure deterred him.

At various periods I passed much time with Mr. Cornell on his home farm.  He lived generously,
in a kind of patriarchal simplicity, and many of his conversations interested me intensely.
His reticence gradually yielded, and he gave me much information regarding his earlier years:
they had been full of toil and struggle, but through the whole there was clear evidence of
a noble purpose.  Whatever worthy work his hand had found to do, he had done it with his might:
the steamers of Cayuga Lake; the tunnel which carries the waters of Fall Creek to the mills
below; the mills themselves; the dams against that turbulent stream, which he built after others
had failed, and which stand firmly to this day; the calendar clocks for which Ithaca has become
famous, and of which he furnished the original hint--all these he touched upon, though so modestly
that I never found out his full agency in them until a later period, when I had made the acquaintance
of many of his townsmen.

Especially interesting were his references to the beginnings of American telegraphic enterprise,
with which he had so much to do.

His connection with it began in a curious way.  Traveling in northern New England to dispose
of a plow which he had invented, he entered the office of a gentleman who had taken the contract
for laying the first telegraphic wires underground between Washington and Baltimore, and found
him in much doubt and trouble: the difficulty was to lay the leaden pipe containing the two
insulated wires at a cost within the terms of the contract.  Hearing this, Mr. Cornell said:
``I will build you a machine which will dig the trench, lay the pipe and wires, and cover them
with earth rapidly and cheaply.''

This proposal was at first derided; but, as Mr. Cornell insisted upon it, he was at last allowed
to show what he could do.  The machine having been constructed, he exhibited it to a committee;
but when the long line of horses attached to it were started, it was so thrown about by the
inequalities of the surface that the committee declared it a failure.  Presently Mr. Cornell
took them to the ground over which the machine had just passed, and, showing them a line of
newly turned earth, asked them to dig in it.  Having done this, they found the pipe incasing
the wires, acknowledged his triumph, and immediately gave him and his machine permanent employment.

But before long he became convinced that this was not the best way.  Having studied all the
books on electricity that he could find in the Congressional Library, he had satisfied himself
that it would be far better and cheaper to string the wires through the open air between poles.
This idea the men controlling the scheme for a time resisted.  Some of them regarded such interference
in a scientific matter by one whom they considered a plain working-man as altogether too presuming.
But one day Professor Morse came out to decide the matter.  Finding Mr. Cornell at his machine,
the professor explained the difficulties in the case, especially the danger of shaking the
confidence of Congress, and so losing the necessary appropriation, should any change in plan
be adopted, and then asked him if he could see any way out of the difficulty.  Mr. Cornell
answered that he could, whereupon Professor Morse expressed a wish that it might be taken.
At this Mr. Cornell gave the word to his men, started up the long line of horses dragging the
ponderous machine, guided it with his own hands into a boulder lying near, and thus deranged
the whole machinery.

As a natural result it was announced by various journals at the national capital that the machinery
for laying the wires had been broken by the carelessness of an employee, but that it would
doubtless soon be repaired and the work resumed.  Thanks to this stratagem, the necessary time
was gained without shaking the confidence of Congress, and Mr. Cornell at once began stringing
the wires upon poles: the insulation was found far better than in the underground system, and
there was no more trouble.

The confidence of the promoters of the enterprise being thus gained, Mr. Cornell was employed
to do their work in all parts of the country; and his sturdy honesty, energy, and persistence
justified their confidence and laid the foundations of his fortune.

Very striking were the accounts of his troubles and trials during the prosecution of this telegraphic
work-- troubles from men of pretended science, from selfish men, from stupid men--all chronicled
by him without the slightest bitterness against any human being, yet with a quaint humor which
made the story very enjoyable.

Through his personal history, as I then began to learn it, ran a thread, or rather a strong
cord, of stoicism.  He had clung with such desperate tenacity to his faith in the future of
the telegraphic system, that, sooner than part with his interest in it, even when its stock
was utterly discredited, he suffered from poverty, and almost from want.  While pressing on
his telegraphic construction, he had been terribly wounded in a Western railroad accident,
but had extricated himself from the dead and dying, and, as I learned from others, had borne
his sufferings without a murmur.  At another time, overtaken by ship-fever at Montreal, and
thought to be beyond help, he had quietly made up his mind that, if he could reach a certain
hydropathic establishment in New York, he would recover; and had dragged himself through that
long journey, desperately ill as he was, in railway cars, steamers, and stages, until he reached
his desired haven; and there he finally recovered, though nearly every other person attacked
by the disease at his Montreal hotel had died.

Pursuing his telegraphic enterprise, he had been obliged at times to fight many strong men
and great combinations of capital; but this same stoicism carried him through: he used to say
laughingly that his way was to ``tire them out.''

When, at last, fortune had begun to smile upon him, his public spirit began to show itself
in more striking forms, though not in forms more real, than in his earlier days.  Evidences
of this met the eye of his visitors at once, and among these were the fine cattle, sheep, fruit-trees,
and the like, which he had brought back from the London Exposition of 1851.  His observations
of the agricultural experiments of Lawes and Gilbert at Rothamstead in England, and his visits
to various agricultural exhibitions, led him to attempt similar work at home.  Everything that
could improve the community in which he lived was matter of concern to him.  He took the lead
in establishing ``Cascadilla Place,'' in order to give a very gifted woman an opportunity to
show her abilities in administering hydropathic treatment to disease; his public library, when
I first visited Ithaca, was just completed.

He never showed the slightest approach to display or vanity regarding any of these things,
and most of them I heard of first, at a later period, from others.

Although his religious ideas were very far from those generally considered orthodox, he had
a deep sympathy with every good effort for religion and morality, no matter by whom made; and
he contributed freely to churches of every name and to good purposes of every sort.  He had
quaint ways at times in making such gifts, and from the many stories showing these I select
one as characteristic.  During the Civil War, the young women of the village held large sewing-circles,
doing work for the soldiers.  When Mr. Cornell was asked to contribute to their funds, he declined,
to the great surprise of those who asked him, and said dryly:  ``Of course these women don't
really come together to sew for the soldiers; they come together to gossip.''  This was said,
no doubt, with that peculiar twinkle of the eye which his old friends can well remember; but,
on the young ladies protesting that he did them injustice, he answered:  ``If you can prove
that I am wrong, I will gladly contribute; if you will only sew together all one afternoon,
and no one of you speak a word, I will give you a hundred dollars.''  The society met, and
complete silence reigned.  The young men of the community, hearing of this, and seeing an admirable
chance to tease their fair friends, came in large numbers to the sewing-circle, and tried to
engage them in conversation.  At first their attempts were in vain; but, finally, to a question
skilfully put, one of the young ladies made a reply.  This broke the spell.  Of course, the
whole assembly were very unhappy; but, when all was told to Mr. Cornell, he said:  ``They shall
have their hundred dollars, for they have done better than any other women ever did.''

But I ought to say here that this little episode would be grossly misunderstood were it supposed
to indicate any tendency in his heart or mind toward a cynical view of womankind.  Nothing
could be more manly and noble than his reference to her who had stood at his side courageously,
hopefully, and cheerily during his years of struggle and want of appreciation.  Well might
he speak of her, as he did once in my hearing, as ``the best woman that ever lived.''  And
his gentle courtliness and thoughtful kindness were also deeply appreciated in other households.
His earnestness, too, in behalf of the higher education of women, and of their fair treatment
in various professions and occupations, showed something far deeper than conventional politeness.

From the time when I began to know him best, his main thought was concentrated upon the university.
His own business interests were freely sacrificed; his time, wealth, and effort were all yielded
to his work in taking up its lands, to say nothing of supplementary work which became in many
ways a heavy burden to him.

During the summer preceding the opening of the university, this labor and care began to wear
upon him, and he was attacked by an old malady which gave him great pain; yet his stoicism
asserted itself.  Through night after night, as I lay in the room next his at his farm-house,
I could hear him groan, and to my natural sympathy was added a fear lest he might not live
through this most critical period in the history of the new institution; but, invariably, when
I met him next morning and asked how he felt, his answer was, ``All right,'' or ``Very well.''
I cannot remember ever hearing him make any complaint of his sufferings or even any reference
to them.

Nor did pain diminish his steady serenity or generosity.  I remember that on one hot afternoon
of that summer, when he had come into the house thoroughly weary, a young man called upon him
to ask for aid in securing school-books.  Mr. Cornell questioned him closely, and then rose,
walked with him down the hill into the town, and bought the books which were needed.

As the day approached for the formal opening of the university, he was obliged to remain in
bed.  Care and toil had prostrated me also; and both of us, a sorry couple indeed, had to be
taken from our beds to be carried to the opening exercises.

A great crowd had assembled from all parts of the State:--many enthusiastic, more doubtful,
and some decidedly inclined to scoff.

Some who were expected were not present.  The Governor of the State, though he had been in
Ithaca the day before, quietly left town on the eve of the opening exercises.  His Excellency
was a very wise man in his generation, and evidently felt that it was not best for him to have
too much to do with an institution which the sectarian press had so generally condemned.  I
shall not soon forget the way in which Mr. Cornell broke the news to me, and the accent of
calm contempt in his voice.  Fortunately there remained with us the lieutenant-governor, General
Stewart Lyndon Woodford.  He came to the front nobly, and stood by us firmly and munificently
ever afterward.

Mr. Cornell's speech on that occasion was very simple and noble; his whole position, to one
who knew what he had gone through in the way of obloquy, hard work, and self-sacrifice, was
touching.  Worn down by illness, he was unable to stand, and he therefore read his address
in a low tone from his chair.  It was very impressive, almost incapacitating me from speaking
after him, and I saw tears in the eyes of many in the audience.  Nothing could be more simple
than this speech of his; it was mainly devoted to a plain assertion of the true university
theory in its most elementary form, and to a plea that women should have equal privileges with
men in advanced education.  In the midst of it came a touch of his quaint shrewdness; for,
in replying to a recent charge that everything at the university was unfinished, he remarked
in substance, ``We have not invited you to see a university finished, but to see one begun.''

The opening day seemed a success, but this very success stirred up the enemy.  A bitter letter
from Ithaca to a leading denominational organ in New York gave the signal, and soon the whole
sectarian press was in full cry, steadily pressing upon Mr. Cornell and those who stood near
him.  Very many of the secular presses also thought it wise to join in the attack, and it was
quickly extended from his ideas to his honor, and even to his honesty.  It seemed beyond the
conception of many of these gentlemen that a Hicksite Quaker, who, if he gave any thought at
all to this or that creed, or this or that ``plan of salvation,'' passed it all by as utterly
irrelevant and inadequate, could be a religious man; and a far greater number seemed to find
it just as difficult to believe that a man could sacrifice his comfort and risk his fortune
in managing so great a landed property for the public interest without any concealed scheme
of plunder.

But he bore all this with his usual stoicism.  It seemed to increase his devotion to the institution,
rather than to diminish it.  When the receipts from the endowment fell short or were delayed,
he continued to advance money freely to meet the salaries of the professors; and for apparatus,
books, and equipment of every sort his purse was constantly opened.

Yet, in those days of toil and care and obloquy, there were some things which encouraged him
much.  At that period all patriotic Americans felt deep gratitude to Goldwin Smith for his
courage and eloquence in standing by our country during the Civil War, and great admiration
for his profound and brilliant historical lectures at Oxford.  Naturally, on arriving in London,
I sought to engage him for the new university, and was authorized by Mr. Cornell to make him
large pecuniary offers.  Professor Smith entered at once into our plans heartily; wrote to
encourage us; came to us; lived with us amid what, to him, must have been great privations;
lectured for us year after year as brilliantly as he had ever lectured at Oxford; gave his
library to the university, with a large sum for its increase; lent his aid very quietly, but
none the less effectually, to needy and meritorious students; and steadily refused then, as
he has ever since done, and now does, to accept a dollar of compensation.  Nothing ever gave
Mr. Cornell more encouragement than this.  For ``Goldwin,'' as he called him in his Quaker
way, there was always a very warm corner in his heart.

He also found especial pleasure in many of the lecture- courses established at the opening
of the university.  For Professor Agassiz he formed a warm friendship; and their discussions
regarding geological questions were very interesting, eliciting from Agassiz a striking tribute
to Mr. Cornell's closeness of observation and sagacity in reasoning.  The lectures on history
by Goldwin Smith, and on literature by James Russell Lowell, George William Curtis, and Bayard
Taylor, he also enjoyed greatly.

The scientific collections and apparatus of various sorts gave him constant pleasure.  I had
sent from England, France, and Germany a large number of charts, models, and pieces of philosophical
apparatus, and regarding some of them had thought it best to make careful explanations to him,
in order to justify so large an expenditure; but I soon found this unnecessary.  His shrewd
mind enabled him to understand any piece of apparatus quickly, and to appreciate it fully.
I have never had to deal with any man whose instinct in such matters was more true.  If a book
or scientific specimen or piece of apparatus was necessary to the proper work of a department,
he could easily be made to see it; and then it MUST come to us, no matter at what cost.  Like
the great prince of navigators in the fifteenth century, he was a man ``who had the taste for
great things''--``qui tenia gusto en cosas grandes.''  He felt that the university was to be
great, and he took his measures accordingly.  His colleagues generally thought him over-sanguine;
and when he declared that the university should yet have an endow- ment of three millions,
most of them regarded him as a dreamer.

I have never known a man more entirely unselfish.  I have seen him, when his wealth was counted
in millions, devote it so generously to university objects that he felt it necessary to stint
himself in some matters of personal comfort.  When urged to sell a portion of the university
land at a sacrifice, in order to better our foundations, he answered in substance, ``Don't
let us do that yet; I will wear my old hat and coat a little longer, and let you have a little
more money from my own pocket.''

This feeling seemed never diminished, even under the worst opposition.  He ``kept the faith,''
no matter who opposed him.

An eminent and justly respected president of one of the oldest Eastern universities published
a treatise, which was widely circulated, to prove that the main ideas on which the new university
was based were utterly impracticable; and especially that the presentation of various courses
of instruction suited to young men of various aims and tastes, with liberty of choice between
them, was preposterous.  It is interesting to note that this same eminent gentleman was afterward
led to adopt this same ``impracticable'' policy at his own university.  Others of almost equal
eminence insisted that to give advanced scientific and technical instruction in the same institution
with classical instruction was folly; and these gentlemen were probably not converted until
the plan was adopted at English Cambridge.  Others still insisted that an institution not belonging
to any one religious sect must be ``godless,'' would not be patronized, and could not succeed.
Their eyes were opened later by the sight of men and women of different Christian denominations
pressing forward at Cornell University to contribute sums which, in the aggregate, amounted
to much more than the original endowment.

He earned the blessing of those who, not having seen, have yet believed.  Though he did not
live long enough to see the fundamental principles of the university thus force their way to
recognition and adoption by those who had most strongly opposed them, his faith remained undiminished
to the end of his life.

But the opposition to his work developed into worse shapes; many leading journals in the State,
when not openly hostile to him, were cold and indifferent, and some of them were steadily abusive.
This led to a rather wide- spread feeling that ``where there is smoke, there must be fire'';
and we who knew the purity of his purpose, his unselfishness, his sturdy honesty, labored long
against this feeling.

I regret to say that some eminent men connected with important universities in the country
showed far too much readiness to acquiesce in this unfavorable view of our founder.  From very
few of our sister institutions came any word of cheer; and from some of them came most bitter
attacks, not only upon the system adopted in the new university, but upon Mr. Cornell himself.
But his friends were more afflicted, by far, than he; all this opposition only served to strengthen
his faith.  As to this effect upon him, I recall one or two quaint examples.  At the darkest
period in the history of the university, I mentioned to him that a fine collection of mathematical
books was offered us for five thousand dollars.  Under ordinary circumstances he would have
bought it for us at once; but at that moment, when any addition to his burdens would not have
been advised by any of his friends, he quietly said, ``Somewhere there is a man walking about
who wants to give us that five thousand dollars.''  I am glad to say that his faith was soon
justified; such a man appeared,--a man who was glad to give the required sum as a testimony
to his belief in Mr. Cornell's integrity:  William Kelly of Rhinebeck.

Another example may be given as typical.  Near the close of the first celebration of Founder's
Day at one of the college buildings, a pleasant social dance sprang up among the younger people--students
from the university and young ladies from the village.  This brought a very severe protest
from sundry clergymen of the place, declaring dancing to be ``destructive of vital godliness.''
Though this was solemnly laid before the faculty, no answer was ever made to it; but we noticed
that, at every social gathering on Founder's Day afterward, as long as Mr. Cornell lived, he
had arrangements made for dancing.  I never knew a man more open to right reason, and never
one less influenced by cant or dogmatism.

To most attacks upon him in the newspapers he neither made nor suggested any reply; but one
or two which were especially misleading he answered simply and conclusively.  This had no effect,
of course, in stopping the attacks; but it had one effect, at which the friends of the university
rejoiced: it bound his old associates to him all the more closely, and led them to support
him all the more vigorously.  When a paper in one of the largest cities in western New York
had been especially abusive, one of Mr. Cornell's old friends living in that city wrote:  ``I
know that the charges recently published are utterly untrue; but I am not skilled in newspaper
controversy, so I will simply add to what I have already given to the university a special
gift of thirty thousand dollars, which will testify to my townsmen here, and perhaps to the
public at large, my confidence in Mr. Cornell.''

Such was the way of Hiram Sibley.  Upon another attack, especially violent, from the organ
of one of the denominational colleges, another old friend of Mr. Cornell in the eastern part
of the State, a prominent member of the religious body which this paper represented, sent his
check for several thousand dollars, to be used for the purchase of books for the library, and
to show confidence in Mr. Cornell by deeds as well as words.

Vile as these attacks were, worse remained behind.  A local politician, who had been sent to
the legislature from the district where the ``People's College'' had lived its short life,
prepared, with pettifogging ability, a long speech to show that the foundation of Cornell University,
Mr. Cornell's endowment of it, and his contract to locate the lands for it were parts of a
great cheat and swindle.  This thesis, developed in all the moods and tenses of abuse before
the legislature, was next day published at length in the leading journals of the metropolis,
and echoed throughout the Union.  The time for these attacks was skilfully chosen; the Cr<e'>dit
Mobilier and other schemes had been revealed at Washington, and everybody was only too ready
to believe any charge against anybody.  That Mr. Cornell had been known for forty years as
an honest man seemed to go for nothing.

The enemies of the university were prompt to support the charges, and they found some echoes
even among those who were benefited by his generosity--even among the students themselves.
At this I felt it my duty to call the whole student body together, and, in a careful speech,
to explain Mr. Cornell's transactions, answering the charges fully.  This speech, though spread
through the State, could evidently do but little toward righting the wrong; but it brought
to me what I shall always feel a great honor--a share in the abuse showered mainly on him.

Very characteristic was Mr. Cornell's conduct under this outrage.  That same faith in justice,
that same patience under wrong, which he always showed, was more evident than ever.

On the morning after the attack in the legislature had been blazoned in all the leading newspapers--in
the early hours, and after a sleepless night--I heard the rattle of gravel against my window-panes.
On rising, I found Mr. Cornell standing below.  He was serene and cheerful, and had evidently
taken the long walk up the hill to quiet my irritation.  His first words were a jocose prelude.
The bells of the university, which were then chimed at six o'clock, were ringing merrily, and
he called out, ``Come down here and listen to the chimes; I have found a spot where you can
hear them directly with one ear, and their echo with the other.''

When I had come down, we first investigated the echo of the chime, which had really aroused
his interest; then he said seriously:  ``Don't make yourself unhappy over this matter; it will
turn out to be a good thing for the university.  I have long foreseen that this attack must
come, but have feared that it would come after my death, when the facts would be forgotten,
and the transactions little understood.  I am glad that the charges are made now, while I am
here to answer them.''  We then discussed the matter, and it was agreed that he should telegraph
and write Governor Dix, asking him to appoint an investigating committee, of which the majority
should be from the political party opposed to his own.  This was done.  The committee was composed
of Horatio Seymour, formerly governor of the State and Democratic candidate for the Presidency
of the United States; William A. Wheeler, Vice-President of the United States; and John D.
Van Buren, all three men of the highest standing, and two of them politically opposed to Mr.
Cornell.

During the long investigation which ensued in New York and at Ithaca, he never lost his patience,
though at times sorely tried.  Various disappointed schemers, among these one person who had
not been allowed to make an undue profit out of the university lands, and another who had been
allowed to depart from a professorship on account of hopeless incompetency, were the main witnesses.
The onslaught was led by the person who made the attack in the legislature, and he had raked
together a mass of half-truths and surmises; but the evidence on Mr. Cornell's side consisted
of a complete exhibition of all the facts and documents.  The unanimous report of the committee
was all that his warmest friends could desire; and its recommendations regarding the management
of the fund were such as Mr. Cornell had long wished, but which he had hardly dared ask.  The
result was a complete triumph for him.

Yet the attacks continued.  The same paper which had been so prominent in sounding them through
the western part of the State continued them as before, and, almost to the very day of his
death, assailed him periodically as a ``land jobber,'' ``land grabber,'' and ``land thief.''
But he took these foul attacks by tricky declaimers and his vindication by three of his most
eminent fellow-citizens with the same serenity.  That there was in him a profound contempt
for the wretched creatures who assailed him and imputed to him motives as vile as their own
can hardly be doubted; yet, though I was with him constantly during this period, I never heard
him speak harshly of them; nor could I ever see that this injustice diminished his good will
toward his fellow-men and his desire to benefit them.

At the very time when these attacks were at their worst, he was giving especial thought to
the problem of bringing education at the university within reach of young men of good ability
and small means.  I am quite within bounds in saying that he gave an hour to thought upon this
for every minute he gave to thought upon the attacks of his enemies.

It was during this period that he began building his beautiful house near the university, and
in this he showed some of his peculiarities.  He took much pains to secure a tasteful plan,
and some of the ideas embodied in it evidently resulted from his study of beautiful country-houses
in England.  Characteristic of him also was his way of carrying on the work.  Having visited
several quarries in various parts of the State, in order to choose the best possible building-stone,
he employed some German stone- carvers who had recently left work upon the Cathedral of Cologne,
brought them to Ithaca, and allowed them to work on with no interference save from the architect.
If they gave a month or more to the carving of a single capital or corbel, he made no remonstrance.
When he had thus secured the best stone-work, he selected the best seasoned oak and walnut
and called skilful carpenters from England.

In thus going abroad for artisans there was no want of loyalty to his countrymen, nor was there
any alloy of vanity in his motives.  His purpose evidently was to erect a house which should
be as perfect a specimen of the builder's art as he could make it, and therefore useful, as
an example of thoroughly good work, to the local workmen.

In connection with this, another incident throws light upon his characteristics.  Above the
front entrance of the house was a scroll, or ribbon, in stone, evidently intended for a name
or motto.  The words carved there were, ``True and Firm.''  It is a curious evidence of the
petty criticism which beset him in those days, that this motto was at times cited as a proof
of his vainglory.  It gives me pleasure to relieve any mind sensitive on this point, and to
vindicate the truth of history, by saying that it was I who placed the motto there.  Calling
his attention one day to the scroll and to the need of an inscription, I suggested a translation
of the old German motto, ``Treu und Fest''; and, as he made no objection, I wrote it out for
the stone- cutters, but told Mr. Cornell that there were people, perhaps, who might translate
the last word ``obstinate.''

The point of this lay in the fact, which Mr. Cornell knew very well, that he was frequently
charged with obstinacy.  Yet an obstinate man, in the evil sense of that word, he was not.
For several years it fell to my lot to discuss a multitude of questions with him, and reasonableness
was one of his most striking characteristics.  He was one of those very rare strong men who
recognize adequately their own limitations.  True, when he had finally made up his mind in
a matter fully within his own province, he remained firm; but I have known very few men, wealthy,
strong, successful, as he was, so free from the fault of thinking that, because they are good
judges of one class of questions, they are equally good in all others.  One mark of an obstinate
man is the announcement of opinions upon subjects regarding which his experience and previous
training give him little or no means of judging.  This was not at all the case with Mr. Cornell.
When questions arose regarding internal university management, or courses of study, or the
choice of professors, or plans for their accommodation, he was never quick in announcing or
tenacious in holding an opinion.  There was no purse pride about him.  He evidently did not
believe that his success in building up a fortune had made him an expert or judge in questions
to which he had never paid special attention.

During the last year or two of his life, I saw not so much of him as during several previous
years.  He had become greatly interested in various railway projects having as their purpose
the connection of Ithaca, as a university town, with the State at large; and he threw himself
into these plans with great energy.  His course in this was prompted by a public spirit as
large and pure as that which had led him to found the university.  When, at the suggestion
of sundry friends, I ventured to remonstrate with him against going so largely into these railway
enterprises at his time of life, he said:  ``I shall live twenty years longer, and make a million
of dollars more for the university endowment.''  Alas! within six months from that day he lay
dead in the midst of many broken hopes.  His plans, which, under other circumstances, would
have been judged wise, seemed for a time wrecked by the financial crisis which had just come
upon the country.

In his last hours I visited him frequently.  His mind remained clear, and he showed his old
freedom from any fault-finding spirit, though evidently oppressed by business cares and bodily
suffering.  His serenity was especially evident as I sat with him the night before his death,
and I can never forget the placidity of his countenance, both then and on the next morning,
when all was ended.

Something should be said regarding Mr. Cornell's political ideas.  In the legislature he was
a firm Republican, but as free as possible from anything like partizan bigotry.  Party ties
in local matters sat lightly upon him.  He spoke in public very little, and took far greater
interest in public improvement than in party advantage.  With many of his political opponents
his relations were most friendly.  For such Democrats as Hiram Sibley, Erastus Brooks, and
William Kelly he had the deepest respect and admiration.  He cared little for popular clamor
on any subject, braving it more than once by his votes in the legislature.  He was evidently
willing to take any risk involved in waiting for the sober second thought of the people.  He
was as free from ordinary ambition as from selfishness: when there was a call from several
parts of the State for his nomination as governor, he said quietly, ``I prefer work for which
I am better fitted.''

There was in his ordinary bearing a certain austerity and in his conversation an abruptness
which interfered somewhat with his popularity.  A student once said to me, ``If Mr. Cornell
would simply stand upon his pedestal as our `Honored Founder,' and let us hurrah for him, that
would please us mightily; but when he comes into the laboratory and asks us gruffly, `What
are you wasting your time at now?' we don't like him so well.''  The fact on which this remark
was based was that Mr. Cornell liked greatly to walk quietly through the laboratories and drafting-rooms,
to note the work.  Now and then, when he saw a student doing something which especially interested
him, he was evidently anxious, as he was wont to say, ``to see what the fellow is made of,''
and he would frequently put some provoking question, liking nothing better than to receive
a pithy answer.  Of his kind feelings toward students I could say much.  He was not inclined
to coddle them, but was ever ready to help any who were deserving.

Despite his apparent austerity, he was singularly free from harshness in his judgments.  There
were times when he would have been justified in outbursts of bitterness against those who attacked
him in ways so foul and maligned him in ways so vile; but I never heard any bitter reply from
him.  In his politics there was never a drop of bitterness.  Only once or twice did I hear
him allude to any conduct which displeased him, and then his comments were rather playful than
otherwise.  On one occasion, when he had written to a gentleman of great wealth and deserved
repute as a philanthropist, asking him to join in carrying the burden of the land locations,
and had received an unfavorable answer, he made a remark which seemed to me rather harsh. 
To this I replied:  ``Mr. Cornell, Mr. ---- is not at all in fault; he does not understand
the question as you do; everybody knows that he is a very liberal man.''  ``Oh,'' said Mr.
Cornell, ``it's easy enough to be liberal; the only hard part is drawing the check.''

Of his intellectual characteristics, foresight was the most remarkable.  Of all men in the
country who had to do with the college land grant of 1862, he alone discerned the possibilities
involved and had courage to make them actual.

Clearness of thought on all matters to which he gave his attention was another striking characteristic;
hence, whenever he put anything on paper, it was lucid and cogent.  There seems at times in
his writings some of the clear, quaint shrewdness so well known in Abraham Lincoln.  Very striking
examples of this are to be found in his legislative speeches, in his address at the opening
of the university, and in his letters.

Among his moral characteristics, his truthfulness, persistence, courage, and fortitude were
most strongly marked.  These qualities made him a man of peace.  He regarded life as too short
to be wasted in quarrels; his steady rule was never to begin a lawsuit or have anything to
do with one, if it could be avoided.  The joy in litigation and squabble, which has been the
weakness of so many men claiming to be strong, and the especial curse of so many American churches,
colleges, universities, and other public organizations, had no place in his strong, tolerant
nature.  He never sought to publish the sins of any one in the courts or to win the repute
of an uncompromising fighter.  In this peaceable disposition he was prompted not only by his
greatest moral quality:-- his charity toward his fellow-men, but by his greatest intel- lectual
quality:--his foresight; for he knew well ``the glorious uncertainty of the law.''  He was
a builder, not a gladiator.

There resulted from these qualities an equanimity which I have never seen equaled.  When his
eldest son had been elected to the highest office in the gift of the State Assembly, and had
been placed, evidently, on the way to the governor 's chair,--afterward attained,--though it
must have gratified such a father, he never made any reference to it in my hearing; and when
the body of his favorite grandson, a most winning and promising boy, killed instantly by a
terrible accident, was brought into his presence, though his heart must have bled, his calmness
seemed almost superhuman.

His religious ideas were such as many excellent people would hardly approve.  He had been born
into the Society of Friends; and their quietness, simplicity, freedom from noisy activity,
and devotion to the public good attached him to them.  But his was not a bigoted attachment;
he went freely to various churches, aiding them without distinction of sect, though finally
he settled into a steady attendance at the Unitarian Church in Ithaca, for the pastor of which
he conceived a great respect and liking.

On the mere letter of Scripture he dwelt little; and, while he never obtruded opinions that
might shock any person, and was far removed from scoffing or irreverence, he did not hesitate
to discriminate between parts of our Sacred Books which he considered as simply legendary and
parts which were to him pregnant with eternal truth.

His religion seemed to take shape in a deeply reverent feeling toward his Creator, and in a
constant desire to improve the condition of his fellow-creatures.  He was never surprised or
troubled by anything which any other human being believed or did not believe; of intolerance
he was utterly incapable.  He sought no reputation as a philanthropist, cared little for approval,
and nothing for applause; but I can say of him, without reserve, that, during all the years
I knew him, ``he went about doing good.''

CHAPTER XIX

ORGANIZATION OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY--1865-1868

Although my formal election to the university presidency did not take place until 1867, the
duties implied by that office had already been discharged by me during two years.

While Mr. Cornell devoted himself to the financial questions arising from the new foundation,
he intrusted all other questions to me.  Indeed, my duties may be said to have begun when,
as chairman of the Committee on Education in the State Senate, I resisted all efforts to divide
the land-grant fund between the People's College and the State Agricultural College; to have
been continued when I opposed the frittering away of the entire grant among more than twenty
small sectarian colleges; and to have taken a more direct form when I drafted the educational
clauses of the university charter and advocated it before the legislature and in the press.
This advocacy was by no means a light task.  The influential men who flocked to Albany, seeking
to divide the fund among various sects and localities, used arguments often plausible and sometimes
forcible.  These I dealt with on various occasions, but especially in a speech before the State
Senate in 1865, in which was shown the character of the interested opposition, the farcical
equipment of the People's College, the failure of the State Agricultural College, the inadequacy
of the sectarian colleges, even though they called themselves universities; and I did all in
my power to communicate to my colleagues something of my own enthusiasm for a university suitably
endowed, free from sectarian trammels, centrally situated, and organized to meet fully the
wants of the State as regarded advanced education, general and technical.

Three points I endeavored especially to impress upon them in this speech.  First, that while,
as regards primary education, the policy of the State should be diffusion of resources, it
should be, as regards university education, concentration of resources.  Secondly, that sectarian
colleges could not do the work required.  Thirdly, that any institution for higher education
in the State must form an integral part of the whole system of public instruction; that the
university should not be isolated from the school system, as were the existing colleges, but
that it should have a living connection with the system, should push its roots down into it
and through it, drawing life from it and sending life back into it.  Mr. Cornell accepted this
view at once.  Mr. Horace Greeley, who, up to that time, had supported the People's College,
was favorably impressed by it, and, more than anything else, it won for us his support.  To
insure this vital connection of the proposed university with the school system, I provided
in the charter for four ``State scholarships'' in each of the one hundred and twenty-eight
Assembly districts.  These scholarships were to be awarded to the best scholars in the public
schools of each district, after due examination, one each year; each scholarship entitling
the holder to free instruction in the university for four years.  Thus the university and the
schools were bound closely together by the constant and living tie of five hundred and twelve
students.  As the number of Assembly districts under the new constitution was made, some years
later, one hundred and fifty, the number of these competitive free scholarships is now six
hundred.  They have served their purpose well.  Thirty years of this connection have greatly
uplifted the whole school system of the State, and made the university a life-giving power
in it; while this uplifting of the school system has enabled the university steadily to raise
and improve its own standard of instruction.

But during the earlier period of our plans there was one serious obstacle--Charles James Folger.
He was the most powerful member of the Senate, its president, and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee.  He had already won wide respect as a county judge, had been longer in the Senate
than any other member, and had already given ample evidence of the qualities which later in
life raised him to some of the highest positions, State and National.  His instincts would
have brought him to our side; for he was broad-minded, enlightened, and earnestly in favor
of all good legislation.  He was also my personal friend, and when I privately presented my
views to him he acquiesced in them.  But there were two difficulties.  First, he had in his
own city a denominational college, his own alma mater, which, though small, was influential.
Still worse for us, he had in his district the State Agricultural College, which the founding
of Cornell University must necessarily wipe out of existence.  He might rise above the first
of these difficulties, but the second seemed insurmountable.  No matter how much in sympathy
with our main aim, he could not sacrifice a possession so dear to his constituency as the State
College of Agriculture.  He felt that he had no right to do so; he knew also that to do so
would be to sacrifice his political future, and we felt, as he did, that he had no right to
do this.

But here came in to help us the culmination of a series of events as unexpected as that which
had placed the land- grant fund at our disposal just at the time when Mr. Cornell and myself
met in the State Senate.  For years a considerable body of thoughtful men throughout the State,
more especially of the medical profession, had sought to remedy a great evil in the treatment
of the insane.  As far back as the middle of the century, Senator Bradford of Cortland had
taken the lead in an investigation of the system then existing, and his report was a frightful
ex- posure.  Throughout the State, lunatics whose families were unable to support them at the
State or private asylums were huddled together in the poorhouses of the various counties. 
Their condition was heartrending.  They were constantly exposed to neglect, frequently to extremes
of cold and hunger, and sometimes to brutality: thus mild lunacy often became raving madness.
For some years before my election to the Senate the need of a reform had been urged upon the
legislative committees by a physician --Dr. Willard of Albany.  He had taken this evil condition
of things much to heart, and year after year had come before the legislature urging the creation
of a new institution, which he wished named after an eminent physician of Albany who had in
his day done what was possible to remedy the evil--Dr. Beck.  But year after year Dr. Willard's
efforts, like those of Dr. Beck before him, had been in vain.  Session after session the ``Bill
to establish the Beck Asylum for the Chronic Insane'' was rejected,-- the legislature shrinking
from the cost of it.  But one day, as we were sitting in the Senate, appalling news came from
the Assembly:  Dr. Willard, while making one more passionate appeal for the asylum, had fallen
dead in the presence of the committee.  The result was a deep and wide- spread feeling of compunction,
and while we were under the influence of this I sought Judge Folger and showed him his opportunity
to do two great things.  I said:  ``It rests with you to remedy this cruel evil which has now
cost Dr. Willard his life, and at the same time to join us in carrying the Cornell University
Bill.  Let the legislature create a new asylum for the chronic insane of the State.  Now is
the time of all times.  Instead of calling it the Beck Asylum, give it the name of Willard--the
man who died in advocating it.  Place it upon the Agricultural College property on the shores
of Seneca Lake in your district.  Your constituents are sure to prefer a living State asylum
to a dying Agricultural College, and will thoroughly support you in both the proposed measures.''
This suggestion Judge Folger received with favor.  The Willard Asylum was created, and he became
one of our strongest supporters.

Both Mr. Cornell's financial plans and my educational plans in the new university charter were
wrought into final shape by him.  As chairman of the Judiciary Committee he reported our bill
to the Senate, and at various critical periods gave us his earnest support.  Quite likely doctrinaires
will stigmatize our conduct in this matter as ``log-rolling''; the men who always criticize
but never construct may even call it a ``bargain.''  There was no ``bargain'' and no ``log-rolling,''
but they may call it what they like; I believe that we were both of us thoroughly in the right.
For our coming together in this way gave to the State the Willard Asylum and the Cornell University,
and without our thus coming together neither of these would have been created.

But in spite of this happy compromise, the struggle for our university charter, as has already
been seen, was long and severe.  The opposition of over twenty sectarian colleges, and of active
politicians from every quarter of the State where these colleges had been established, made
our work difficult; but at last it was accomplished.  Preparations for the new institution
were now earnestly pressed on, and for a year I gave up very much of my time to them, keeping
in constant communication with Mr. Cornell, frequently visiting Ithaca, and corresponding with
trustees in various parts of the State and with all others at home or abroad who seemed able
to throw light on any of the problems we had to solve.

The question now arose as to the presidency of the institution; and, as time passed on and
duties increased, this became more and more pressing.  In the previous chapter I have given
some account of the circumstances attending my election and of Mr. Cornell's relation to it;
but this is perhaps the place for stating one of the difficulties which stood in the way of
my acceptance, and which, indeed, greatly increased my cares during all the first years of
my presidency.  The death of my father and uncle, who had for many years carried on a large
and wide-spread business, threw upon me new responsibilities.  It was during the Civil War,
when panic after panic ran through the American business world, making the interests now devolving
upon me all the more burdensome.  I had no education for business and no liking for it, but,
under the pressure of necessity, decided to do the best I could, yet determining that just
as soon as these business affairs could be turned over to others it should be done.  Several
years elapsed, and those the busiest so far as the university was concerned, before such a
release became possible.  So it happened that during the first and most trying years of the
new institution of Ithaca, I was obliged to do duty as senator of the State of New York, president
of Cornell University, lecturer at the University of Michigan, president of the National Bank
of Syracuse and director in two other banks,--one being at Oswego,--director in the New York
Central and Lake Shore railways, director in the Albemarle and Chesapeake Canal,--to say nothing
of positions on boards of various similar corporations and the executorship of two widely extended
estates.  It was a trying time for me.  There was, however, some advantage; for this epoch
in my life put me in relations with some of the foremost business men in the United States,
among them Cornelius Vanderbilt, William H. Vanderbilt, Dean Richmond, Daniel Drew, and various
other men accustomed to prompt and decisive dealing with large business affairs.  I recognized
the value of such associations and endeavored to learn something from them, but was determined,
none the less, to end this sort of general activity as early as it could be done consistently
with justice to my family.  Several years were required, and those the very years in which
university cares were most pressing.  But finally my intention was fully carried out.  The
bank over which my father had presided so many years I was able to wind up in a way satisfactory
to all concerned, not only repaying the shareholders, but giving them a large surplus.  From
the other cor- porations also I gradually escaped, turning my duties over to those better fitted
for them.  Still many outside cares remained, and in one way or another I was obliged to take
part in affairs which I would have gladly shunned.  Yet there was consolation in the idea that,
as my main danger was that of drifting into a hermit life among professors and books, anything
that took me out of this for a limited length of time was not without compensating advantages.

Just previously to my election to the university presidency I had presented a ``plan of organization,''
which, having been accepted and printed by the trustees, formed the mold for the main features
of the new institution; and early among my duties came the selection and nomination of professors.
In these days one is able to choose from a large body of young men holding fellowships in the
various larger universities of the United States; but then, with the possible exception of
two or three at Harvard, there was not a fellowship, so far as I can remember, in the whole
country.  The choosing of professors was immeasurably more difficult than at present.  With
reference to this point, a very eminent graduate of Harvard then volunteered to me some advice,
which at first sight looked sound, but which I soon found to be inapplicable.  He said:  ``You
must secure at any cost the foremost men in the United States in every department.  In this
way alone can a real university be created.''  Trying the Socratic method upon him, I asked,
in reply, ``How are we to get such men?  The foremost man in American science is undoubtedly
Agassiz, but he has refused all offers of high position at Paris made him by the French Emperor.
The main objects of his life are the creation of his great museum at Harvard and his investigations
and instruction in connection with it; he has declared that he has `no time to waste in making
money!'  What sum or what inducement of any sort can transfer him from Harvard to a new institution
on the distant hills of central New York?  So, too, with the most eminent men at the other
universities.  What sum will draw them to us from Harvard, Yale, Columbia, the University of
Virginia, and the University of Michigan?  An endowment twice as large as ours would be unavailing.''
Therefore it was that I broached, as a practical measure, in my ``plan of organization,'' the
system which I had discussed tentatively with George William Curtis several years before, and
to which he referred afterward in his speech at the opening of the university at Ithaca.  This
was to take into our confidence the leading professors in the more important institutions of
learning, and to secure from them, not the ordinary, conventional paper testimonials, but confidential
information as to their young men likely to do the best work in various fields, to call these
young men to our resident professorships, and then to call the most eminent men we could obtain
for non-resident professorships or lectureships.  This idea was carried out to the letter.
The most eminent men in various universities gave us confidential advice; and thus it was that
I was enabled to secure a number of bright, active, energetic young men as our resident professors,
mingling with them two or three older men, whose experience and developed judgment seemed necessary
in the ordinary conduct of our affairs.

