The doctor whose success blinds public opinion to medical poverty is almost as completely demoralized.
His promotion means that his practice becomes more and more confined to the idle rich. The
proper advice for most of their ailments is typified in Abernethy's "Live on sixpence a day
and earn it." But here, as at the other end of the scale, the right advice is neither agreeable
nor practicable. And every hypochondriacal rich lady or gentleman who can be persuaded that
he or she is a lifelong invalid means anything from fifty to five hundred pounds a year for
the doctor. Operations enable a surgeon to earn similar sums in a couple of hours; and if the
surgeon also keeps a nursing home, he may make considerable profits at the same time by running
what is the most expensive kind of hotel. These gains are so great that they undo much of the
moral advantage which the absence of grinding pecuniary anxiety gives the rich doctor over
the poor one. It is true that the temptation to prescribe a sham treatment because the real
treatment is too dear for either patient or doctor does not exist for the rich doctor. He always
has plenty of genuine cases which can afford genuine treatment; and these provide him with
enough sincere scientific professional work to save him from the ignorance, obsolescence, and
atrophy of scientific conscience into which his poorer colleagues sink. But on the other hand
his expenses are enormous. Even as a bachelor, he must, at London west end rates, make over
a thousand a year before he can afford even to insure his life. His house, his servants, and
his equipage (or autopage) must be on the scale to which his patients are accustomed, though
a couple of rooms with a camp bed in one of them might satisfy his own requirements. Above
all, the income which provides for these outgoings stops the moment he himself stops working.
Unlike the man of business, whose managers, clerks, warehousemen and laborers keep his business
going whilst he is in bed or in his club, the doctor cannot earn a farthing by deputy. Though
he is exceptionally exposed to infection, and has to face all weathers at all hours of the
night and day, often not enjoying a complete night's rest for a week, the money stops coming
in the moment he stops going out; and therefore illness has special terrors for him, and success
no certain permanence. He dare not stop making hay while the sun shines; for it may set at
any time. Men do not resist pressure of this intensity. When they come under it as doctors
they pay unnecessary visits; they write prescriptions that are as absurd as the rub of chalk
with which an Irish tailor once charmed away a wart from my father's finger; they conspire
with surgeons to promote operations; they nurse the delusions of the malade imaginaire (who
is always really ill because, as there is no such thing as perfect health, nobody is ever really
well); they exploit human folly, vanity, and fear of death as ruthlessly as their own health,
strength, and patience are exploited by selfish hypochondriacs. They must do all these things
or else run pecuniary risks that no man can fairly be asked to run. And the healthier the world
becomes, the more they are compelled to live by imposture and the less by that really helpful
activity of which all doctors get enough to preserve them from utter corruption. For even the
most hardened humbug who ever prescribed ether tonics to ladies whose need for tonics is of
precisely the same character as the need of poorer women for a glass of gin, has to help a
mother through child-bearing often enough to feel that he is not living wholly in vain.

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SELF-RESPECT IN SURGEONS

The surgeon, though often more unscrupulous than the general practitioner, retains his self-respect
more easily. The human conscience can subsist on very questionable food. No man who is occupied
in doing a very difficult thing, and doing it very well, ever loses his self-respect. The shirk,
the duffer, the malingerer, the coward, the weakling, may be put out of countenance by his
own failures and frauds; but the man who does evil skilfully, energetically, masterfully, grows
prouder and bolder at every crime. The common man may have to found his self-respect on sobriety,
honesty and industry; but a Napoleon needs no such props for his sense of dignity. If Nelson's
conscience whispered to him at all in the silent watches of the night, you may depend on it
it whispered about the Baltic and the Nile and Cape St. Vincent, and not about his unfaithfulness
to his wife. A man who robs little children when no one is looking can hardly have much self-respect
or even self-esteem; but an accomplished burglar must be proud of himself. In the play to which
I am at present preluding I have represented an artist who is so entirely satisfied with his
artistic conscience, even to the point of dying like a saint with its support, that he is utterly
selfish and unscrupulous in every other relation without feeling at the smallest disadvantage.
The same thing may be observed in women who have a genius for personal attractiveness: they
expend more thought, labor, skill, inventiveness, taste and endurance on making themselves
lovely than would suffice to keep a dozen ugly women honest; and this enables them to maintain
a high opinion of themselves, and an angry contempt for unattractive and personally careless
women, whilst they lie and cheat and slander and sell themselves without a blush. The truth
is, hardly any of us have ethical energy enough for more than one really inflexible point of
honor. Andrea del Sarto, like Louis Dubedat in my play, must have expended on the attainment
of his great mastery of design and his originality in fresco painting more conscientiousness
and industry than go to the making of the reputations of a dozen ordinary mayors and churchwardens;
but (if Vasari is to be believed) when the King of France entrusted him with money to buy pictures
for him, he stole it to spend on his wife. Such cases are not confined to eminent artists.
Unsuccessful, unskilful men are often much more scrupulous than successful ones. In the ranks
of ordinary skilled labor many men are to be found who earn good wages and are never out of
a job because they are strong, indefatigable, and skilful, and who therefore are bold in a
high opinion of themselves; but they are selfish and tyrannical, gluttonous and drunken, as
their wives and children know to their cost.

Not only do these talented energetic people retain their self-respect through shameful misconduct:
they do not even lose the respect of others, because their talents benefit and interest everybody,
whilst their vices affect only a few. An actor, a painter, a composer, an author, may be as
selfish as he likes without reproach from the public if only his art is superb; and he cannot
fulfil his condition without sufficient effort and sacrifice to make him feel noble and martyred
in spite of his selfishness. It may even happen that the selfishness of an artist may be a
benefit to the public by enabling him to concentrate himself on their gratification with a
recklessness of every other consideration that makes him highly dangerous to those about him.
In sacrificing others to himself he is sacrificing them to the public he gratifies; and the
public is quite content with that arrangement. The public actually has an interest in the artist's
vices.

