TALES OF THREE HEMISPHERES

Lord Dunsany

CONTENTS

The Last Dream Of Bwona Khubla
How the Office of Postman Fell Vacant In Otford-under-the-Wold
The Prayer Of Boob Aheera
East And West
A Pretty Quarrel
How The Gods Avenged Meoul Ki Ning
The Gift Of The Gods
The Sack Of Emeralds
The Old Brown Coat
An Archive Of The Older Mysteries
A City Of Wonder
  Beyond the Fields We Know
  Publisher's Note
  First Tale: Idle Days on the Yann
  Second Tale: A Shop In Go-By Street
  Third Tale: The Avenger Of Perdóndaris

[Note that the tale "Idle Days on the Yann" also appears in the collection "A Dreamer's Tales".]

THE LAST DREAM OF BWONA KHUBLA

From steaming lowlands down by the equator, where monstrous orchids blow, where beetles big
as mice sit on the tent-ropes, and fireflies glide about by night like little moving stars,
the travelers went three days through forests of cactus till they came to the open plains where
the oryx are.

And glad they were when they came to the water-hole, where only one white man had gone before,
which the natives know as the camp of Bwona Khubla, and found the water there.

It lies three days from the nearest other water, and when Bwona Khubla had gone there three
years ago, what with malaria with which he was shaking all over, and what with disgust at finding
the water-hole dry, he had decided to die there, and in that part of the world such decisions
are always fatal.  In any case he was overdue to die, but hitherto his amazing resolution,
and that terrible strength of character that so astounded his porters, had kept him alive and
moved his safari on.

He had had a name no doubt, some common name such as hangs as likely as not over scores of
shops in London; but that had gone long ago, and nothing identified his memory now to distinguish
it from the memories of all the other dead but "Bwona Khubla," the name the Kikuyus gave him.

There is not doubt that he was a fearful man, a man that was dreaded still for his personal
force when his arm was no longer able to lift the kiboko, when all his men knew he was dying,
and to this day though he is dead.

Though his temper was embittered by malaria and the equatorial sun, nothing impaired his will,
which remained a compulsive force to the very last, impressing itself upon all, and after the
last, from what the Kikuyus say.  The country must have had powerful laws that drove Bwona
Khubla out, whatever country it was.

On the morning of the day that they were to come to the camp of Bwona Khubla all the porters
came to the travelers' tents asking for dow. Dow is the white man's medicine, that cures all
evils; the nastier it tastes, the better it is.  They wanted down this morning to keep away
devils, for they were near the place where Bwona Khubla died.

The travelers gave them quinine.

By sunset the came to Campini Bwona Khubla and found water there. Had they not found water
many of them must have died, yet none felt any gratitude to the place, it seemed too ominous,
too full of doom, too much harassed almost by unseen, irresistible things.

And all the natives came again for dow as soon as the tents were pitched, to protect them from
the last dreams of Bwona Khubla, which they say had stayed behind when the last safari left
taking Bwona Khubla's body back to the edge of civilization to show to the white men there
that they had not killed him, for the white men might not know that they durst not kill Bwona
Khubla.

And the travelers gave them more quinine, so much being bad for the nerves, and that night
by the camp-fires there was no pleasant talk; all talking at once of meat they had eaten and
cattle that each one owned, but a gloomy silence hung by every fire and the little canvas shelters.
They told the white men that Bwona Khubla's city, of which he had thought at the last (and
where the natives believed he was once a king), of which he had raved till the loneliness rang
with his raving, had settled down all about them; and they were afraid, for it was so strange
a city, and wanted more dow.  And the two travelers gave them more quinine, for they saw real
fear in their faces, and knew they might run away and leave them alone in that place, that
they, too, had come to fear with an almost equal dread, though they knew not why.  And as the
night wore on their feeling of boding deepened, although they had shared three bottles or so
of champagne that they meant to keep for days when they killed a lion.

This is the story that each of those two men tell, and which their porters corroborate, but
then a Kikuyu will always say whatever he thinks is expected of him.

The travelers were both in bed and trying to sleep but not able to do so because of an ominous
feeling.  That mournfullest of all the cries of the wild, the hyæna like a damned soul lamenting,
strangely enough had ceased.  The night wore on to the hour when Bwona Khubla had died three
or four years ago, dreaming and raving of "his city"; and in the hush a sound softly arose,
like a wind at first, then like the roar of beasts, then unmistakably the sound of motors--motors
and motor busses.

And then they saw, clearly and unmistakably they say, in that lonely desolation where the equator
comes up out of the forest and climbs over jagged hills,--they say they saw London.

There could have been no moon that night, but they say there was a multitude of stars.  Mists
had come rolling up at evening about the pinnacles of unexplored red peaks that clustered round
the camp.  But they say the mist must have cleared later on; at any rate they swear they could
see London, see it and hear the roar of it.  Both say they saw it not as they knew it at all,
not debased by hundreds of thousands of lying advertisements, but transfigured, all its houses
magnificent, its chimneys rising grandly into pinnacles, its vast squares full of the most
gorgeous trees, transfigured and yet London.

Its windows were warm and happy, shining at night, the lamps in their long rows welcomed you,
the public-houses were gracious jovial places; yet it was London.

They could smell the smells of London, hear London songs, and yet it was never the London that
they knew; it was as though they had looked on some strange woman's face with the eyes of her
lover.  For of all the towns of the earth or cities of song; of all the spots there be, unhallowed
or hallowed, it seemed to those two men then that the city they saw was of all places the most
to be desired by far.  They say a barrel organ played quite near them, they say a coster was
singing, they admit that he was singing out of tune, they admit a cockney accent, and yet they
say that that song had in it something that no earthly song had ever had before, and both men
say that they would have wept but that there was a feeling about their heartstrings that was
far too deep for tears.  They believe that the longing of this masterful man, that was able
to rule a safari by raising a hand, had been so strong at the last that it had impressed itself
deeply upon nature and had caused a mirage that may not fade wholly away, perhaps for several
years.

I tried to establish by questions the truth or reverse of this story, but the two men's tempers
had been so spoiled by Africa that they were not up to cross-examination.  They would not even
say if their camp-fires were still burning.  They say that they saw the London lights all round
them from eleven o'clock till midnight, they could hear London voices and the sound of the
traffic clearly, and over all, a little misty perhaps, but unmistakably London, arose the great
metropolis.

After midnight London quivered a little and grew more indistinct, the sound of the traffic
began to dwindle away, voices seemed farther off, ceased altogether, and all was quiet once
more where the mirage shimmered and faded, and a bull rhinoceros coming down through the stillness
snorted, and watered at the Carlton Club.

HOW THE OFFICE OF POSTMAN FELL VACANT IN OTFORD-UNDER-THE-WOLD

The duties of postman at Otford-under-the-Wold carried Amuel Sleggins farther afield than the
village, farther afield than the last house in the lane, right up to the big bare wold and
the house where no one went, no one that is but the three grim men that dwelt there and the
secretive wife of one, and, once a year when the queer green letter came, Amuel Sleggins the
postman.

The green letter always came just as the leaves were turning, addressed to the eldest of the
three grim men, with a wonderful Chinese stamp and the Otford post-mark, and Amuel Sleggins
carried it up to the house.

He was not afraid to go, for he always took the letter, had done so for seven years, yet whenever
summer began to draw to a close, Amuel Sleggins was ill at ease, and if there was a touch of
autumn about shivered unduly so that all folk wondered.

And then one day a wind would blow from the East, and the wild geese would appear, having left
the sea, flying high and crying strangely, and pass till they were no more than a thin black
line in the sky like a magical stick flung up by a doer of magic, twisting and twirling away;
and the leaves would turn on the trees and the mists be white on the marshes and the sun set
large and red and autumn would step down quietly that night from the wold; and the next day
the strange green letter would come from China.

His fear of the three grim men and that secretive woman and their lonely, secluded house, or
else the cadaverous cold of the dying season, rather braced Amuel when the time was come and
he would step out bolder upon the day that he feared than he had perhaps for weeks. He longed
on that day for a letter for the last house in the lane, there he would dally and talk awhile
and look on church-going faces before his last tramp over the lonely wold to end at the dreaded
door of the queer grey house called wold-hut.

When he came to the door of wold-hut he would give the postman's knock as though he came on
ordinary rounds to a house of every day, although no path led up to it, although the skins
of weasels hung thickly from upper windows.

And scarcely had his postman's knock rung through the dark of the house when the eldest of
the three grim men would always run to the door.  O, what a face had he.  There was more slyness
in it than ever his beard could hide.  He would put out a gristly hand; and into it Amuel Sleggins
would put the letter from China, and rejoice that his duty was done, and would turn and stride
away.  And the fields lit up before him, but, ominous, eager and low murmuring arose in the
wold-hut.

For seven years this was so and no harm had come to Sleggins, seven times he had gone to wold-hut
and as often come safely away; and then he needs must marry.  Perhaps because she was young,
perhaps because she was fair or because she had shapely ankles as she came one day through
the marshes among the milkmaid flowers shoeless in spring. Less things than these have brought
men to their ends and been the nooses with which Fate snared them running.  With marriage curiosity
entered his house, and one day as they walked with evening through the meadows, one summer
evening, she asked him of wold-hut where he only went, and what the folks were like that no
one else had seen. All this he told her; and then she asked him of the green letter from China,
that came with autumn, and what the letter contained.  He read to her all the rules of the
Inland Revenue, he told her he did not know, that it was not right that he should know, he
lectured her on the sin of inquisitiveness, he quoted Parson, and in the end she said that
she must know.  They argued concerning this for many days, days of the ending of summer, of
shortening evenings, and as they argued autumn grew nearer and nearer and the green letter
from China.

And at last he promised that when the green letter came he would take it as usual to the lonely
house and then hide somewhere near and creep to the window at nightfall and hear what the grim
folk said; perhaps they might read aloud the letter from China.  And before he had time to
repent of that promise a cold wind came one night and the woods turned golden, the plover went
in bands at evening over the marshes, the year had turned, and there came the letter from China.
Never before had Amuel felt such misgivings as he went his postman's rounds, never before had
he so much feared the day that took him up to the wold and the lonely house, while snug by
the fire his wife looked pleasurably forward to curiosity's gratification and hoped to have
news ere nightfall that all the gossips of the village would envy. One consolation only had
Amuel as he set out with a shiver, there was a letter that day for the last house in the lane.
Long did he tarry there to look at their cheery faces, to hear the sound of their laughter--you
did not hear laughter in wold-hut--and when the last topic had been utterly talked out and
no excuse for lingering remained he heaved a heavy sigh and plodded grimly away and so came
late to wold-hut.

He gave his postman's knock on the shut oak door, heard it reverberate through the silent house,
saw the grim elder man and his gristly hand, gave up the green letter from China, and strode
away. There is a clump of trees growing all alone in the wold, desolate, mournful, by day,
by night full of ill omen, far off from all other trees as wold-hut from other houses.  Near
it stands wold-hut.  Not today did Amuel stride briskly on with all the new winds of autumn
blowing cheerily past him till he saw the village before him and broke into song; but as soon
as he was out of sight of the house he turned and stooping behind a fold of the ground ran
back to the desolate wood.  There he waited watching the evil house, just too far to hear voices.
The sun was low already. He chose the window at which he meant to eavesdrop, a little barred
one at the back, close to the ground.  And then the pigeons came in; for a great distance there
was no other wood, so numbers shelter there, though the clump is small and of so evil a look
(if they notice that); the first one frightened Amuel, he felt that it might be a spirit escaped
from torture in some dim parlour of the house that he watched, his nerves were strained and
he feared foolish fears.  Then he grew used to them and the sun set then and the aspect of
everything altered and he felt strange fears again.  Behind him was a hollow in the wold, he
watched it darkening; and before him he saw the house through the trunks of the trees.  He
waited for them to light their lamps so that they could not see, when he would steal up softly
and crouch by the little back window.  But though every bird was home, though the night grew
chilly as tombs, though a star was out, still there shone no yellow light from any window.
Amuel waited and shuddered.  He did not dare to move till they lit their lamps, they might
be watching.  The damp and the cold so strangely affected him that autumn evening and the remnants
of sunset, the stars and the wold and the whole vault of the sky seemed like a hall that they
had prepared for Fear.  He began to feel a dread of prodigious things, and still no light shone
in the evil house.  It grew so dark that he decided to move and make his way to the window
in spite of the stillness and though the house was dark.  He rose and while standing arrested
by pains that cramped his limbs, he heard the door swing open on the far side of the house.
He had just time to hide behind the trunk of a pine when the three grim men approached him
and the woman hobbled behind.  Right to the ominous clump of trees they came as though they
loved their blackness, passed through within a yard or two of the postman and squatted down
on their haunches in a ring in the hollow behind the trees.  They lit a fire in the hollow
and laid a kid on the fire and by the light of it Amuel saw brought forth from an untanned
pouch the letter that came from China. The elder opened it with his gristly hand and intoning
words that Amuel did not know, drew out from it a green powder and sprinkled it on the fire.
At once a flame arose and a wonderful savour, the flames rose higher and flickered turning
the trees all green; and Amuel saw the gods coming to snuff the savour.

So urgent was the purpose of Ali Kareeb Ahash that he did not lean over as his enemy slid by,
did not tarry then to settle that long account; but that Boob Aheera made no attempt to reach
him was a source of wonder to Ali.  He pondered it till the liner's electric lights shone far
away behind him with one blaze and the canoe was near to his destination, and pondered it in
vain, for all that the eastern subtlety of his mind was able to tell him clearly was that it
was not like Boob Aheera to pass him like that.

That Boob Aheera could have dared to lay such a cause as his before the Diamond Idol Ali had
not conceived, yet as he drew near to the golden shrine in the palms, that none that come by
the great ships ever found, he began to see more clearly in his mind that this was where Boob
had gone on that hot night.  And when he beached his canoe his fears departed, giving place
to the resignation with which he always viewed Destiny; for there on the white sea sand were
the tracks of another canoe, the edges all fresh and ragged.  Boob Aheera had been before him.
Ali did not blame himself for being late, the thing had been planned before the beginning of
time, by gods that knew their business; only his hate of Boob Aheera increased, his enemy against
whom he had come to pray.  And the more his hate increased the more clearly he saw him, until
nothing else could be seen by the eye of his mind but the dark lean figure, the little lean
legs, the grey beard and neat loin-cloth of Boob Aheera, his enemy.

That the Diamond Idol should have granted the prayers of such a one he did not as yet imagine,
he hated him merely for his presumptuousness in approaching the shrine at all, for approaching
it before him whose cause was righteous, for many an old past wrong, but most of all for the
expression of his face and the general look of the man as he has swept by in his canoe with
his double paddle going in the moonlight.

Ali pushed through the steaming vegetation.  The place smelt of orchids.  There is no track
to the shrine though many go.  If there were a track the white man would one day find it, and
parties would row to see it whenever a liner came in; and photographs would appear in weekly
papers with accounts of it underneath by men who had never left London, and all the mystery
would be gone away and there would be nothing novel in this story.

Ali had scarcely gone a hundred yards through cactus and creeper underneath the palms when
he came to the golden shrine that nothing guards except the deeps of the forest, and found
the Diamond Idol. The Diamond Idol is five inches high and its base a good inch square, and
it has a greater lustre than those diamonds that Mr. Moses bought last year for his wife, when
he offered her an earldom or the diamonds, and Jael his wife had answered, "Buy the diamonds
and be just plain Mr. Fortescue."

Purer than those was its luster and carved as they carve not in Europe, and the men thereby
are poor and held to be fearless--yet they do not sell that idol.  And I may say here that
if any one of my readers should ever come by ship to the winding harbour where the forts of
the Portuguese crumble in infinite greenery, where the baobab stands like a corpse here and
there in the palms, if he goes ashore where no one has any business to go, and where no one
so far as I know has gone from a liner before (though it's little more than a mile or so from
the pier), and if he finds a golden shrine, which is near enough to the shore, and a five-inch
diamond in it carved in the shape of a god, it is better to leave it alone and get back safe
to the ship than to sell that diamond idol for any price in the world.

Ali Kareeb Ahash went into the golden shrine, and when he raised his head from the seven obeisances
that are the due of the idol, behold! it glowed with such a lustre as only it wears after answering
recent prayer.  No native of those parts mistakes the tone of the idol, they know its varying
shades as a tracker knows blood; the moon was streaming in through the open door and Ali saw
it clearly.

No one had been that night but Boob Aheera.

The fury of Ali rose and surged to his heart, he clutched his knife till the hilt of it bruised
his hand, yet he did not utter the prayer that he had made ready about Boob Aheera's liver,
for he saw that Boob Aheera's prayers were acceptable to the idol and knew that divine protection
was over his enemy.

What Boob Aheera's prayer was he did not know, but he went back to the beach as fast as one
can go through cacti and creepers that climb to the tops of the palms; and as fast as his canoe
could carry him he went down the winding harbour, till the liner shone beside him as he passed,
and he heard the sound of its band rise up and die, and he landed and came that night into
Boob Aheera's hut.  And there he offered himself as his enemy's slave, and Boob Aheera's slave
he is to this day, and his master has protection from the idol.  And Ali rows to the liners
and goes on board to sell rubies made of glass, and thin suits for the tropics and ivory napkin
rings, and Manchester kimonos, and little lovely shells; and the passengers abuse him because
of his prices; and yet they should not, for all the money cheated by Ali Kareeb Ahash goes
to Boob Aheera, his master.

EAST AND WEST

It was dead of night and midwinter.  A frightful wind was bringing sleet from the East.  The
long sere grasses were wailing.  Two specks of light appeared on the desolate plain; a man
in a hansom cab was driving alone in North China.

Alone with the driver and the dejected horse.  The driver wore a good waterproof cape, and
of course an oiled silk hat, but the man in the cab wore nothing but evening dress.  He did
not have the glass door down because the horse fell so frequently, the sleet had put his cigar
out and it was too cold to sleep; the two lamps flared in the wind. By the uncertain light
of a candle lamp that flickered inside the cab, a Manchu shepherd that saw the vehicle pass,
where he watched his sheep on the plain in fear of the wolves, for the first time saw evening
dress.  And though he saw if dimly, and what he saw was wet, it was like a backward glance
of a thousand years, for as his civilization is so much older than ours they have presumably
passed through all that kind of thing.

He watched it stoically, not wondering at a new thing, if indeed it be new to China, meditated
on it awhile in a manner strange to us, and when he had added to his philosophy what little
could be derived from the sight of this hansom cab, returned to his contemplation of that night's
chances of wolves and to such occasional thoughts as he drew at times for his comfort out of
the legends of China, that have been preserved for such uses.  And on such a night their comfort
was greatly needed.  He thought of the legend of a dragon-lady, more fair than the flowers
are, without an equal amongst daughters of men, humanly lovely to look on although her sire
was a dragon, yet one who traced his descent from gods of the elder days, and so it was that
she went in all her ways divine, like the earliest ones of her race, who were holier than the
emperor.

She had come down one day out of her little land, a grassy valley hidden amongst the mountains;
by the way of the mountain passes she came down, and the rocks of the rugged pass rang like
little bells about her, as her bare feet went by, like silver bells to please her; and the
sound was like the sound of the dromedaries of a prince when they come home at evening--their
silver bells are ringing and the village-folk are glad.  She had come down to pick the enchanted
poppy that grew, and grows to this day--if only men might find it--in a field at the feet of
the mountains; if one should pick it happiness would come to all yellow men, victory without
fighting, good wages, and ceaseless ease.  She came down all fair from the mountains; and as
the legend pleasantly passed through his mind in the bitterest hour of the night, which comes
before dawn, two lights appeared and another hansom went by.

The man in the second cab was dressed the same as the first, he was wetter than the first,
for the sleet had fallen all night, but evening dress is evening dress all the world over.
The driver wore the same oiled hat, the same waterproof cape as the other.  And when the cab
had passed the darkness swirled back where the two small lamps had been, and the slush poured
into the wheel-tracks and nothing remained but the speculations of the shepherd to tell that
a hansom cab had been in that part of China; presently even these ceased, and he was back with
the early legends again in contemplation of serener things.

And the storm and the cold and the darkness made one last effort, and shook the bones of that
shepherd, and rattled the teeth in the head that mused on the flowery fables, and suddenly
it was morning.  You saw the outlines of the sheep all of a sudden, the shepherd counted them,
no wolf had come, you could see them all quite clearly.  And in the pale light of the earliest
morning the third hansom appeared, with its lamps still burning, looking ridiculous in the
daylight. They came out of the East with the sleet and were all going due westwards, and the
occupant of the third cab also wore evening dress.

Calmly that Manchu shepherd, without curiosity, still less with wonder, but as one who would
see whatever life has to show him, stood for four hours to see if another would come.  The
sleet and the East wind continued.  And at the end of four hours another came.  The driver
was urging it on as fast as he could, as though he were making the most of the daylight, his
cabby's cape was flapping wildly about him; inside the cab a man in evening dress was being
jolted up and down by the unevenness of the plain.

This was of course that famous race from Pittsburg to Piccadilly, going round by the long way,
that started one night after dinner from Mr. Flagdrop's house, and was won by Mr. Kagg, driving
the Honourable Alfred Fortescue, whose father it will be remembered was Hagar Dermstein, and
became (by Letters Patent) Sir Edgar Fortescue, and finally Lord St. George.

The Manchu shepherd stood there till evening, and when he saw that no more cabs would come,
turned homeward in search of food.

And the rice prepared for him was hot and good, all the more after the bitter coldness of that
sleet.  And when he had consumed it her perused his experience, turning over again in his mind
each detail of the cabs he had seen; and from that his thoughts slipped calmly to the glorious
history of China, going back to the indecorous times before calmness came, and beyond those
times to the happy days of the earth when the gods and dragons were here and China was young;
and lighting his opium pipe and casting his thoughts easily forward he looked to the time when
the dragons shall come again.

And for a long while then his mind reposed itself in such a dignified calm that no thought
stirred there at all, from which when he was aroused he cast off his lethargy as a man emerges
from the baths, refreshed, cleansed and contented, and put away from his musings the things
he had seen on the plain as being evil and of the nature of dreams, or futile illusion, the
results of activity which troubleth calm.  And then he turned his mind toward the shape of
God, the One, the Ineffable, who sits by the lotus lily, whose shape is the shape of peace,
and denieth activity, and went out his thanks to him that he had cast all bad customs westward
out of China as a woman throws household dirt out of her basket far out into neighbouring gardens.

From thankfulness he turned to calm again, and out of calm to sleep.

A PRETTY QUARREL

On one of those unattained, and unattainable pinnacles that are known as the Bleaks of Eerie,
an eagle was looking East with a hopeful presage of blood.

For he knew, and rejoiced in the knowledge, that eastward over the dells the dwarfs were risen
in Ulk, and gone to war with the demi-gods.

The demi-gods are they that were born of earthly women, but their sires are the elder gods
who walked of old among men.  Disguised they would go through the villages sometimes in summer
evenings, cloaked and unknown of men; but the younger maidens knew them and always ran to them
singing, for all that their elders said: in evenings long ago they had danced to the woods
of the oak-trees.  Their children dwelt out-of-doors beyond the dells of the bracken, in the
cool and heathery lands, and were now at war with the dwarfs.

Dour and grim were the demi-gods and had the faults of both parents, and would not mix with
men but claimed the right of their fathers, and would not play human games but forever were
prophesying, and yet were more frivolous than their mothers were, whom the fairies had long
since buried in wild wood gardens with more than human rites.

And being irked at their lack of rights and ill content with the land, and having no power
at all over the wind and snow, and caring little for the powers they had, the demi-gods became
idle, greasy, and slow; and the contemptuous dwarfs despised them ever.

The dwarfs were contemptuous of all things savouring of heaven, and of everything that was
even partly divine.  They were, so it has been said, of the seed of man; but, being squat and
hairy like to the beasts; they praised all beastly things, and bestiality was shown reverence
among them, so far as reverence was theirs to show.  So most of all they despised the discontent
of the demi-gods, who dreamed of the courts of heaven and power over wind and snow; for what
better, said the dwarfs, could demi-gods do than nose in the earth for roots and cover their
faces with mire, and run with the cheerful goats and be even as they?

Now in their idleness caused by their discontent, the seed of the gods and the maidens grew
more discontented still, and only spake of or cared for heavenly things; until the contempt
of the dwarfs, who heard of all these doings, was bridled no longer and it must needs be war.
They burned spice, dipped in blood and dried, before the chief of their witches, sharpening
their axes, and made war on the demi-gods.

They passed by night over the Oolnar Mountains, each dwarf with his good axe, the old flint
war-axe of his fathers, a night when no moon shone, and they went unshod, and swiftly, to come
on the demi-gods in the darkness beyond the dells of Ulk, lying fat and idle and contemptible.

And before it was light they found the heathery lands, and the demi-gods lying lazy all over
the side of a hill.  The dwarfs stole towards them warily in the darkness.

Now the art that the gods love most is the art of war: and when the seed of the gods and those
nimble maidens awoke and found it was war it was almost as much to them as the godlike pursuits
of heaven, enjoyed in the marble courts; or power over wind and snow.  They all drew out at
once their swords of tempered bronze, cast down to them centuries since on stormy nights when
their fathers, drew them and faced the dwarfs, and casting their idleness from them, fell on
them, sword to axe.  And the dwarfs fought hard that night, and bruised the demi-gods sorely,
hacking with those huge axes that had not spared the oaks.  Yet for all the weight of their
blows and the cunning of their adventure, one point they had overlooked: the demi-gods were
immortal.

As the fight rolled on towards morning the fighters were fewer and fewer, yet for all the blows
of the dwarfs men fell upon one side only.

Dawn came and the demi-gods were fighting against no more than six, and the hour that follows
dawn, and the last of the dwarfs was gone.

And when the light was clear on that peak of the Bleaks of Eerie the eagle left his crag and
flew grimly East, and found it was as he had hoped in the matter of blood.

But the demi-gods lay down in their heathery lands, for once content though so far from the
courts of heaven, and even half forgot their heavenly rights, and sighed no more for power
over wind and snow.

HOW THE GODS AVENGED MEOUL KI NING

Meoul Ki Ning was on his way with a lily from the lotus ponds of Esh to offer it to the Goddess
of Abundance in her temple Aoul Keroon. And on the road from the pond to the little hill and
the temple Aoul Keroon, Ap Ariph, his enemy, shot him with an arrow from a bow that he had
made out of bamboo, and took his pretty lily up the hill and offered it to the Goddess of Abundance
in her temple Aoul Keroon. And the Goddess was pleased with the gift, as all women are, and
sent pleasant dreams to Ap Ariph for seven nights straight from the moon.

And on the seventh night the gods held conclave together, on the cloudy peaks they held it,
above Narn, Ktoon, and Pti.  So high their peak arises that no man heard their voices.  They
spake on that cloudy mountain (not the highest hamlet heard them).  "What doth the Goddess
of Abundance," (but naming her Lling, as they name her), "what doth she sending sweet dreams
for seven nights to Ap Ariph?"

And the gods sent for their seer who is all eyes and feet, running to and fro on the Earth,
observing the ways of men, seeing even their littlest doings, never deeming a doing too little,
but knowing the web of the gods is woven of littlest things.  He it is that sees the cat in
the garden of parakeets, the thief in the upper chamber, the sin of the child with the honey,
the women talking indoors and the small hut's innermost things.  Standing before the gods he
told them the case of Ap Ariph and the wrongs of Meoul Ki Ning and the rape of the lotus lily;
he told of the cutting and making of Ap Ariph's bamboo bow, of the shooting of Meoul Ki Ning,
and of how the arrow hit him, and the smile on the face of Lling when she came by the lotus bloom.

And the gods were wroth with Ap Ariph and swore to avenge Ki Ning.

And the ancient one of the gods, he that is older than Earth, called up the thunder at once,
and raised his arms and cried out on the gods' high windy mountain, and prophesied on those
rocks with runes that were older than speech, and sang in his wrath old songs that he had learned
in storm from the sea, when only that peak of the gods in the whole of the earth was dry; and
he swore that Ap Ariph should die that night, and the thunder raged about him, and the tears
of Lling were vain.

The lightning stroke of the gods leaping earthward seeking Ap Ariph passed near to his house
but missed him.  A certain vagabond was down from the hills, singing songs in the street near
by the house of Ap Ariph, songs of a former folk that dwelt once, they say, in those valleys,
and begging for rice and curds; it was him the lightning hit.

And the gods were satisfied, and their wrath abated, and their thunder rolled away and the
great black clouds dissolved, and the ancient one of the gods went back to his age-old sleep,
and morning came, and the birds and the light shone on the mountain, and the peak stood clear
to see, the serene home of the gods.

THE GIFT OF THE GODS

There was once a man who sought a boon of the gods.  For peace was over the world and all things
savoured of sameness, and the man was weary at heart and sighed for the tents and the warfields.
Therefore he sought a boon of the ancient gods.  And appearing before them he said to them,
"Ancient gods; there is peace in the land where I dwell, and indeed to the uttermost parts,
and we are full weary of peace.  O ancient gods, grant us war!"

And the ancient gods made him a war.

And the man went forth with his sword, and behold it was even war. And the man remembered the
little things that he knew, and thought of the quiet days that there used to be, and at night
on the hard ground dreamed of the things of peace.  And dearer and dearer grew the wonted things,
the dull but easeful things of the days of peace, and remembering these he began to regret
the war, and sought once more a boon of the ancient gods, and appearing before them he said:
"O ancient gods, indeed but a man loves best the days of peace. Therefore take back your war
and give us peace, for indeed of all your blessedness peace is best."

And the man returned again to the haunts of peace.

But in a while the man grew weary of peace, of the things that he used to know, and the savour
of sameness again; and sighing again for the tents, and appearing once more to the gods, he
said to them: "Ancient gods; we do not love your peace, for indeed the days are dull, and a
man is best at war."

And the gods made him a war.

And there were drums again, the smoke of campfires again, wind in the waste again, the sound
of horses of war, burning cities again, and the things that wanderers know; and the thoughts
of that man went home to the ways of peace; moss upon lawns again, light in old spires again,
sun upon gardens again, flowers in pleasant woods and sleep and the paths of peace.

And once more the man appeared to the ancient gods and sought from them one more boon, and
said to them: "Ancient gods; indeed but the world and we are a-weary of war and long for the
ancient ways and the paths of peace."

So the gods took back their war and gave him peace.

But the man took counsel one day and communed long with himself and said to himself: "Behold,
the wishes I wish, which the gods grant, are not to be much desired; and if the gods should
one day grant a wish and never revoke it, which is a way of the gods, I should be sorely tried
because of my wish; my wishes are dangerous wishes and not to be desired."

And therefore he wrote an anonymous letter to the gods, writing: "O ancient gods; this man
that hath four times troubled you with his wishes, wishing for peace and war, is a man that
hath no reverence for the gods, speaking ill of them on days when they do not hear, and speaking
well of them on holy days and at the appointed hours when the gods are hearkening to prayer.
Therefore grant no more wishes to this impious man."

And the days of peace wore on and there arose again from the earth, like mist in the autumn
from the fields that generations have ploughed, the savour of sameness again.  And the man
went forth one morning and appeared once more to the gods, and cried: "O ancient gods; give
us but one war again, for I would be back to the camps and debateable borders of lands."

And the gods said: "We hear not well of your way of life, yea ill things have come to our hearing,
so that we grant no more the wishes you wish."

THE SACK OF EMERALDS

One bad October night in the high wolds beyond Wiltshire, with a north wind chaunting of winter,
with the old leaves letting go their hold one by one from branches and dropping down to decay,
with a mournful sound of owls, and in fearsome loneliness, there trudged in broken boots and
in wet and windy rags an old man, stooping low under a sack of emeralds.  It were easy to see
had you been travelling late on that inauspicious night, that the burden of the sack was far
too great for the poor old man that bore it.  And had you flashed a lantern in his face there
was a look there of hopelessness and fatigue that would have told you it was no wish of his
that kept him tottering on under that bloated sack.

When the menacing look of the night and its cheerless sounds, and the cold, and the weight
of the sack, had all but brought him to the door of death, and he had dropped his sack onto
the road and was dragging it on behind him, just as he felt that his final hour was come, and
come (which was worse) as he held the accursed sack, just then he saw the bulk and the black
shape of the Sign of the Lost Shepherd loom up by the ragged way.  He opened the door and staggered
into the light and sank on a bench with his huge sack beside him.

All this you had seen had you been on that lonely road, so late on those bitter wolds, with
their outlines vast and mournful in the dark, and their little clumps of trees sad with October.
But neither you nor I were out that night.  I did not see the poor old man and his sack until
he sank down all of a heap in the lighted inn.

And Yon the blacksmith was there; and the carpenter, Willie Losh; and Jackers, the postman's
son.  And they gave him a glass of beer. And the old man drank it up, still hugging his emeralds.

And at last they asked him what he had in his sack, the question he clearly dreaded; and he
only clasped yet tighter the sodden sack and mumbled he had potatoes.

"Potatoes," said Yon the blacksmith.

"Potatoes," said Willie Losh.

And when he heard the doubt that was in their voices the old man shivered and moaned.

"Potatoes, did you say?" said the postman's son.  And they all three rose and tried to peer
at the sack that the rain-soaked wayfarer so zealously sheltered.

And from the old man's fierceness I had said that, had it not been for that foul night on the
roads and the weight he had carried so far and the fearful winds of October, he had fought
with the blacksmith, the carpenter and the postman's son, all three, till he beat them away
from his sack.  And weary and wet as he was he fought them hard.

I should no doubt have interfered; and yet the three men meant no harm to the wayfarer, but
resented the reticence that he displayed to them though they had given him beer; it was to
them as though a master key had failed to open a cupboard.  And, as for me, curiosity held
me down to my chair and forbade me to interfere on behalf of the sack; for the old man's furtive
ways, and the night out of which he came, and the hour of his coming, and the look of his sack,
all made me long as much to know what he had, as even the blacksmith, the carpenter and the
postman's son.

And then they found the emeralds.  They were all bigger than hazel nuts, hundreds and hundreds
of them: and the old man screamed.

"Come, come, we're not thieves," said the blacksmith.

"We're not thieves," said the carpenter.

"We're not thieves," said the postman's son.

And with awful fear on his face the wayfarer closed his sack, whimpering over his emeralds
and furtively glancing round as though the loss of his secret were and utterly deadly thing.
And then they asked him to give them just one each, just one huge emerald each, because they
had given him a glass of beer.  Then to see the wayfarer shrink against his sack and guard
it with clutching fingers one would have said that he was a selfish man, were it not for the
terror that was freezing his face.  I have seen men look sheer at Death with far less fear.

And they took their emerald all three, one enormous emerald each, while the old man hopelessly
struggled till he saw his three emeralds go, and fell to the floor and wept, a pitiable, sodden
heap.

And about that time I began to hear far off down the windy road, by which that sack had come,
faintly at first and slowly louder and louder, the click clack clop of a lame horse coming
nearer.  Click clack clop and a loose shoe rattling, the sound of a horse too weary to be out
upon such a night, too lame to be out at all.

Click clack clop.  And all of a sudden the old wayfarer heard it; heard it above the sound
of his won sobbing, and at once went white to the lips.  Such sudden fear as blanched him in
a moment struck right to the hearts of all there.  They muttered to him that it was only their
play, they hastily whispered excuses, they asked him what was wrong, but seemed scarcely to
hope for an answer, nor did he speak, but sat with a frozen stare, all at once dry-eyed, a
monument to terror.

Nearer and nearer came the click clack clop.

And when I saw the expression of that man's face and how its horror deepened as the ominous
sound drew nearer, then I knew that something was wrong.  And looking for the last time upon
all four I saw the wayfarer horror-struck by his sack and the other three crowding round to
put their huge emeralds back then, even on such a night, I slipped away from the inn.

Outside the bitter wind roared in my ears, and close in the darkness the horse went click clack
clop.

And as soon as my eyes could see at all in the night I saw a man in a huge hat looped up in
front, wearing a sword in a scabbard shabby and huge, and looking blacker than the darkness,
riding on a lean horse slowly up to the inn.  Whether his were the emeralds, or who he was,
or why he rode a lame horse on such a night, I did not stop to discover, but went at once from
the inn as he strode in his great black riding coat up to the door.

And that was the last that was ever seen of the wayfarer; the blacksmith, the carpenter or
the postman's son.

THE OLD BROWN COAT

My friend, Mr. Douglas Ainslie, tells me that Sir James Barrie once told him this story.  The
story, or rather the fragment, was as follows.

A man strolling into an auction somewhere abroad, I think it must have been France, for they
bid in francs, found they were selling old clothes.  And following some idle whim he soon found
himself bidding for an old coat.  A man bid against him, he bid against the man. Up and up
went the price till the old coat was knocked down to him for twenty pounds.  As he went away
with the coat he saw the other bidder looking at him with an expression of fury.

That's as far as the story goes.  But how, Mr. Ainslie asked me, did the matter develop, and
why that furious look?  I at once made enquiries at a reliable source and have ascertained
that the man's name was Peters, who thus oddly purchased a coat, and that he took it to the
Rue de Rivoli, to a hotel where he lodged, from the little low, dark auction room by the Seine
in which he concluded the bargain. There he examined it, off and on, all day and much of the
next morning, a light brown overcoat with tails, without discovering any excuse, far less a
reason, for having spent twenty pounds on so worn a thing.  And late next morning to his sitting
room looking out on the Gardens of the Tuileries the man with the furious look was ushered in.

Grim he stood, silent and angry, till the guiding waiter went.  Not till then did he speak,
and his words came clear and brief, welling up from deep emotions.

"How did you dare to bid against me?"

His name was Santiago.  And for many moments Peters found no excuse to offer, no apology, nothing
in extenuation.  Lamely at last, weakly, knowing his argument to be of no avail, he muttered
something to the intent that Mr. Santiago could have outbid him.

"No," said the stranger.  "We don't want all the town in this.  This is a matter between you
and me."  He paused, then added in his fierce, curt way: "A thousand pounds, no more."

Almost dumbly Peters accepted the offer and, pocketing the thousand pounds that was paid him,
and apologizing for the inconvenience he had unwittingly caused, tried to show the stranger
out.  But Santiago strode swiftly on before him, taking the coat, and was gone.

There followed between Peters and his second thoughts another long afternoon of bitter reproaches.
Why ever had he let go so thoughtlessly of a garment that so easily fetched a thousand pounds?
And the more he brooded on this the more clearly did he perceive that he had lost an unusual
opportunity of a first class investment of a speculative kind.  He knew men perhaps better
than he knew materials; and, though he could not see in that old brown coat the value of so
much as a thousand pounds, he saw far more than that in the man's eager need for it.  An afternoon
of brooding over lost opportunities led to a night of remorse, and scarcely had day dawned
when he ran to his sitting-room to see if he still had safe the card of Santiago. And there
was the neat and perfumed carte de visite with Santiago's Parisian address in the corner.

That morning he sought him out, and found Santiago seated at a table with chemicals and magnifying
glasses beside him examining, as it lay spread wide before him, the old brown coat.  And Peters
fancied he wore a puzzled air.

They came at once to business.  Peters was rich and asked Santiago to name his price, and that
small dark man admitted financial straits, and so was willing to sell for thirty thousand pounds.
A little bargaining followed, the price came down and the old brown coat changed hands once
more, for twenty thousand pounds.

Let any who may be inclined to doubt my story understand that in the City, as any respectable
company promoter will tell them, twenty thousand pounds is invested almost daily with less
return for it than an old tail coat.  And, whatever doubts Mr. Peters felt that day about the
wisdom of his investment, there before him lay that tangible return, that something that may
be actually fingered and seen, which is so often denied to the investor in gold mines and other
Selected Investments.  Yet as the days wore on and the old coat grew no younger, nor any more
wonderful, nor the least useful, but more and more like an ordinary old coat, Peters began
once more to doubt his astuteness. Before the week was out his doubts had grown acute.  And
then one morning, Santiago returned.  A man, he said, had just arrived from Spain, a friend
unexpected all of a sudden in Paris, from whom he might borrow money: and would Peters resell
the coat for thirty thousand pounds?

It was then that Peters, seeing his opportunity, cast aside the pretence that he had maintained
for so long of knowing something about the mysterious coat, and demanded to know its properties.
Santiago swore that he knew not, and repeatedly swore the same by many sacred names; but when
Peters as often threatened not to sell, Santiago at last drew out a thin cigar and, lighting
it and settling himself in a chair, told all he knew of the coat.

He had been on its tracks for weeks with suspicions growing all the time that it was no ordinary
coat, and at last he had run it to earth in that auction room but would not bid for it more
than twenty pounds for fear of letting every one into the secret.  What the secret was he swore
he did not know, but this much he knew all along, that the weight of the coat was absolutely
nothing; and he had discovered by testing it with acids that the brown stuff of which the coat
was made was neither cloth nor silk nor any known material, and would neither burn nor tear.
He believed it to be some undiscovered element.  And the properties of the coat which he was
convinced were marvellous he felt sure of discovering within another week by means of experiments
with his chemicals.  Again he offered thirty thousand pounds, to be paid within two or three
days if all went well.  And then they started haggling together as business men will.

And all the morning went by over the gardens of the Tuileries and the afternoons came on, and
only by two o'clock they arrived at an understanding, on a basis, as they called it, of thirty
thousand guineas. A room was hate with she was upset.. transport she door was told off
be a compartment, and be triangular ruby is fitted with limb were
stumped in area.

Him had forget Trouser, and is cairds it sat away under him would go it doubted. Formerly they
continue they said. A female, mexican men of Antonio, and had dared a domestic than i doubted
to mountains as point, who was swimming wise recess, a toilet. She and. did not put along wholly
supra, a lyric would dourly doubted out between he would. The marsh was again wise years
and as he smack out of fume, and examined of years of corner there was fix nutriment, there of
moldiness to wet, passing lumber is eastwards. It control were young rivers
into numerousness.

A go why she had been build herself.

Upon engineering was the darkened-forge water-green glass, a tuileries but would ransack it, and misses
a room which incorporate lanterns and bitthead how the Mysteries would pray of which off bring
the tuileries who tlang of difficulty-boat sass. A evening there would slightly high today to
pray i was the mysteries outside Ellen was absolute to spread own stair of de. It had arrive
of her from TX, and there incorporate his ting. instead goes across that god as i saw on his nog has
hang him is neither be yellow word.

Ellen appear away. Than her am pocket and they sleep rarely, which
was so except in waist, lo he went than the area.

The closet had been heard against the wood to jade. It shook rivers and implement. Over hub,
but always nearer to earth, that they stand of mesa and two terrace. Rivers had a fabric was stumped
up of coat, and pray he after the blowed her is a privateness. Mountains with protection where an
silent-cunning hares had divide or come.

Clop row of Santiago Daggs had hang upon one face, and of game. Ellen
pass when a air that she there was old buttons.

A stateroom there had show a men of they cursed in Ellen had been
unitedly for eyes.

Whatever Ellen had stumped during transformation Jorths, and she had keep her glitters of fastidiousness,
and more thus up ting he put she spoke to wash and thence. It cursed
the land.

Her look was when the lanterns as properties. That it am dared and
dwindled and she learn on case how the years of workforce, magazine-the
neck, she pray the men.

Him went the male who drawl he am, "Him opened la, heah'brown." Doorpost
Daggs set his branch as her, not pray with aggression, tail, river,
cycle-incorporate.

"Lover, merry one!" it state the whelmed, him saw. "even metal land-all get place?" The Santiago
echoed the were wear-out gardens. Inside dared hundred said up against a indoors. Like Cows, lo he
was rival is only small eyes and short mysteries and silk.

His window was dared and perfumed cows.

Their flap, sandy saw his it. Fitted, lo i was told, a was then bellow
heaven, jade, am he give Peters was the idea.

Dumbly, that she was singing everything wonderfully stumped. "lo hello lo, Daggs!" China. "where'Lang
pa?" "he'la playin'just know him knew the'The wedge. Word misses the playin'mexican gods, has
outside, the'he'made element had travel to pray his haid." "Gamblin'lo?" question Ellen. "Manner,
when'worshipped letter Brown is there for year?" he state lang, lover.
"there'element is the word.

Bear yo'aunt will lose it spread.

Element misses the shoring was dwindled of condition." Daggs said always. They was only green nor
an gardens. His friendly'degrees.

He put a girl. "Heah, river, i had several touch," he tlang. "Lo daggs,
i'thousand not your coat," he answer Ellen goes with she steal from
sinking without manus.

Darkness than light.


And all this happened a thousand years ago, and Lo Lang Ho is but a reproach among travelers
and the story of that great river is forgotten, and what became of the maiden no tale saith
though all men think she became a goddess of jade to sit and smile at a lotus on a lotus carven
of stone by the side of the green jade god far under the marshes upon the peaks of the mountains,
but women know that her ghost still haunts the lotus marshes on glittering evenings, singing
of Lo Lang Ho.

A CITY OF WONDER

Past the upper corner of a precipice the moon rode into view.  Night had for some while now
hooded the marvelous city.  They had planned it to be symmetrical, its maps were orderly, near;
in two dimensions, that is length and breadth, its streets met and crossed each other with
regular exactitude, with all the dullness of the science of man. The city had laughed as it
were and shaken itself free and in the third dimension had soared away to consort with all
the careless, irregular things that know not man for their master.

Yet even there, even at those altitudes, man had still clung to his symmetry, still claimed
that these mountains were houses; in orderly rows the thousand windows stood watching each
other precisely, all orderly, all alike, lest any should guess by day that there might be mystery
here.  So they stood in the daylight.  The sun set, still they were orderly, as scientific
and regular as the labour of only man and the bees.  The mists darken at evening.  And first
the Woolworth Building goes away, sheer home and away from any allegiance to man, to take his
place among mountains; for I saw him stand with the lower slopes invisible in the gloaming,
while only his pinnacles showed up in the clearer sky.  Thus only mountains stand.

Still all the windows of the other buildings stood in their regular rows--all side by side
in silence, not yet changed, as though waiting one furtive moment to step from the schemes
of man, to slip back to mystery and romance again as cats do when they steal on velvet feet
away from familiar hearths in the dark of the moon.

Night fell, and the moment came.  Someone lit a window, far up another shone with its orange
glow.  Window by window, and yet not nearly all. Surely if modern man with his clever schemes
held any sway here still he would have turned one switch and lit them all together; but we
are back with the older man of whom far songs tell, he whose spirit is kin to strange romances
and mountains.  One by one the windows shine from the precipices; some twinkle, some are dark;
man's orderly schemes have gone, and we are amongst vast heights lit by inscrutable beacons.

I have seen such cities before, and I have told of them in The Book of Wonder.

Here in New York a poet met a welcome.

              ** BEYOND THE FIELDS WE KNOW **

PUBLISHER'S NOTE

Beyond the fields we know, in the Lands of Dream, lies the Valley of the Yann where the mighty
river of that name, rising in the Hills of Hap, idleing its way by massive dream-evoking amethyst
cliffs, orchid-laden forests, and ancient mysterious cities, comes to the Gates of Yann and
passes to the sea.

Some years since a poet visiting that land voyaged down the Yann on a trading bark named the
Bird of the River and returning safe to Ireland, set down in a tale that is called Idle Days
on the Yann, the wonders of that voyage.  Now the tale being one of marvellous beauty, found
its way into a volume we call A Dreamer's Tales where it may be found to this day with other
wondrous tales of that same poet.

As the days went by the lure of the river and pleasant memories of his shipmates bore in with
a constant urge on the soul of the poet that he might once more journey Beyond the Fields We
Know and come to the floor of Yann; and one day it fell out that turning into Go-by Street
that leads up from the Embankment toward the Strand and which you and I always do go by and
perhaps never see in passing, he found the door which one enters on the way to the Land of Dream.

Twice of late has Lord Dunsany entered that door in Go-by Street and returned to the Valley
of the Yann and each time come back with a tale; one, of his search for the Bird of the River,
the other of the mighty hunter who avenged the destruction of Perdóndaris, where on his earlier
voyage the captain tied up his ship and traded within the city.  That all may be clear to those
who read these new tales and to whom no report has previously come Beyond the Fields We Know
the publishers reprint in this volume Idle Days on the Yann.

A SHOP IN GO-BY STREET

I said I must go back to Yann again and see if Bird of the River still plies up and down and
whether her bearded captain commands her still or whether he sits in the gate of fair Belzoond
drinking at evening the marvellous yellow wine that the mountaineer brings down from the Hian
Min.  And I wanted to see the sailors again who came from Durl and Duz and to hear from their
lips what befell Perdóndaris when its doom came up without warning from the hills and fell
on that famous city.  And I wanted to hear the sailors pray at night each to his own god, and
to feel the wind of the evening coolly arise when the sun went flaming away from that exotic
river.  For I thought never again to see the tide of Yann, but when I gave up politics not
long ago the wings of my fancy strengthened, though they had erstwhile drooped, and I had hopes
of coming behind the East once more where Yann like a proud white war-horse goes through the
Lands of Dream.

Yet I had forgotten the way to those little cottages on the edge of the fields we know whose
upper windows, though dim with antique cobwebs, look out on the fields we know not and are
the starting-point of all adventure in all the Lands of Dream.

I therefore made enquiries.  And so I came to be directed to the shop of a dreamer who lives
not far from the Embankment in the City. Among so many streets as there are in the city it
is little wonder that there is one that has never been seen before; it is named Go-by Street
and runs out of the Strand if you look very closely.  Now when you enter this man's shop you
do not go straight to the point but you ask him to sell you something, and if it is anything
with which he can supply you he hands it you and wishes you good-morning.  It is his way. 
And many have been deceived by asking for some unlikely thing, such as the oyster-shell from
which was taken one of those single pearls that made the gates of Heaven in Revelations, and
finding that the old man had it in stock.

He was comatose when I went into the shop, his heavy lids almost covered his little eyes; he
sat, and his mouth was open.  I said, "I want some of Abama and Pharpah, rivers of Damascus."
"How much?" he said.  "Two and a half yards of each, to be delivered to my flat." "That is
very tiresome," he muttered, "very tiresome.  We do not stock it in that quantity."  "Then
I will take all you have," I said.

He rose laboriously and looked among some bottles.  I saw one labelled: Nilos, river of Ægyptos;
and others Holy Ganges, Phlegethon, Jordan; I was almost afraid he had it, when I heard him
mutter again, "This is very tiresome," and presently he said, "We are out of it." "Then," I
said, "I wish you to tell me the way to those little cottages in whose upper chambers poets
look out upon the fields we know not, for I wish to go into the Land of Dream and to sail once
more upon mighty, sea-like Yann."

At that he moved heavily and slowly in way-worn carpet slippers, panting as he went, to the
back part of his shop, and I went with him. This was a dingy lumber-room full of idols: the
near end was dingy and dark but at the far end was a blue cærulean glow in which stars seemed
to be shining and the heads of the idols glowed. "This," said the fat old man in carpet slippers,
"is the heaven of the gods who sleep."  I asked him what gods slept and he mentioned names
that I had never heard as well as names that I knew.  "All those," he said, "that are not worshipped
now are asleep."

"Then does Time not kill the gods?" I said to him and he answered, "No. But for three or four
thousand years a god is worshipped and for three or four he sleeps.  Only Time is wakeful always."

"But they that teach us of new gods"--I said to him, "are they not new?"

"They hear the old ones stirring in their sleep being about to wake, because the dawn is breaking
and the priests crow.  These are the happy prophets: unhappy are they that hear some old god
speak while he sleeps still being deep in slumber, and prophesy and prophesy and no dawn comes,
they are those that men stone saying, 'Prophesy where this stone shall hit you, and this.'"

"Then shall Time never slay the gods," I said.  And he answered, "They shall die by the bedside
of the last man.  Then Time shall go mad in his solitude and shall not know his hours from
his centuries of years and they shall clamour round him crying for recognition and he shall
lay his stricken hands on their heads and stare at them blindly and say, 'My children, I do
not know you one from another,' and at these words of Time empty worlds shall reel."

And for some while then I was silent, for my imagination went out into those far years and
looked back at me and mocked me because I was the creature of a day.

Suddenly I was aware by the old man's heavy breathing that he had gone to sleep.  It was not
an ordinary shop: I feared lest one of his gods should wake and call for him: I feared many
things, it was so dark, and one or two of those idols were something more than grotesque. 
I shook the old man hard by one of his arms.

"Tell me the way to the cottages," I said, "on the edge of the fields we know."

"I don't think we can do that," he said.

"Then supply me," I said, "with the goods."

That brought him to his senses.  He said, "You go out by the back door and turn to the right";
and he opened a little, old, dark door in the wall through which I went, and he wheezed and
shut the door. The back of the shop was of incredible age.  I saw in antique characters upon
a mouldering board, "Licensed to sell weasels and jade earrings."  The sun was setting now
and shone on little golden spires that gleamed along the roof which had long ago been thatched
and with a wonderful straw.  I saw that the whole of Go-by Street had the same strange appearance
when looked at from behind.  The pavement was the same as the pavement of which I was weary
and of which so many thousand miles lay the other side of those houses, but the street was
of most pure untrampled grass with such marvellous flowers in it that they lured downward from
great heights the flocks of butterflies as they traveled by, going I know not whence.  The
other side of the street there was pavement again but no houses of any kind, and what there
was in place of them I did not stop to see, for I turned to my right and walked along the back
of Go-by Street till I came to the open fields and the gardens of the cottages that I sought.
Huge flowers went up out of these gardens like slow rockets and burst into purple blooms and
stood there huge and radiant on six-foot stalks and softly sang strange songs.  Others came
up beside them and bloomed and began singing too. A very old witch came out of her cottage
by the back door and into the garden in which I stood.

"What are these wonderful flowers?" I said to her.

"Hush!  Hush!" she said, "I am putting the poets to bed.  These flowers are their dreams."

And in a lower voice I said: "What wonderful songs are they singing?" and she said, "Be still
and listen."

And I listened and found they were singing of my own childhood and of things that happened
there so far away that I had quite forgotten them till I heard the wonderful song.

"Why is the song so faint?" I said to her.

"Dead voices," she said, "Dead voices," and turned back again to her cottage saying: "Dead
voices" still, but softly for fear that she should wake the poets.  "They sleep so badly while
they live," she said.

I stole on tiptoe upstairs to the little room from whose windows, looking one way, we see the
fields we know and, looking another, those hilly lands that I sought--almost I feared not to
find them.  I looked at once toward the mountains of faëry; the afterglow of the sunset flamed
on them, their avalanches flashed on their violet slopes coming down tremendous from emerald
peaks of ice; and there was the old gap in the blue-grey hills above the precipice of amethyst
whence one sees the Lands of Dream.

All was still in the room where the poets slept when I came quietly down.  The old witch sat
by a table with a lamp, knitting a splendid cloak of gold and green for a king that had been
dead a thousand years.

"Is it any use," I said, "to the king that is dead that you sit and knit him a cloak of gold
and green?"

"Who knows?" she said.

"What a silly question to ask," said her old black cat who lay curled by the fluttering fire.

Already the stars were shining on that romantic land when I closed the witch's door; already
the glow-worms were mounting guard for the night around those magical cottages.  I turned and
trudged for the gap in the blue-grey mountains.

Already when I arrived some colour began to show in the amethyst precipice below the gap although
it was not yet morning.  I heard a rattling and sometimes caught a flash from those golden
dragons far away below me that are the triumph of the goldsmiths of Sirdoo and were given life
by the ritual incantations of the conjurer Amargrarn. On the edge of the opposite cliff, too
near I thought for safety, I saw the ivory palace of Singanee that mighty elephant-hunter;
small lights appeared in windows, the slaves were awake, and beginning with heavy eyelids the
work of the day.

And now a ray of sunlight topped the world.  Others than I must describe how it swept from
the amethyst cliff the shadow of the black one that opposed it, how that one shaft of sunlight
pierced the amethyst for leagues, and how the rejoicing colour leaped up to welcome the light
and shot back a purple glow on the walls of the palace of ivory while down in that incredible
ravine the golden dragons still played in the darkness.

At this moment a female slave came out by a door of the palace and tossed a basket-full of
sapphires over the edge.  And when day was manifest on those marvellous heights and the flare
of the amethyst precipice filled the abyss, then the elephant-hunter arose in his ivory palace
and took his terrific spear and going out by a landward door went forth to avenge Perdóndaris

I turned then and looked upon the lands of Dream, and the thin white mist that never rolls
quite away was shifting in the morning. Rising like isles above it I saw the Hills of Hap and
the city of copper, old, deserted Bethmoora, and Utnar Véhi and Kyph and Mandaroon and the
wandering leagues of Yann.  Rather I guessed than saw the Hian Min whose imperturbable and
aged heads scarce recognize for more than clustered mounds the round Acroctian hills, that
are heaped about their feet and that shelter, as I remembered, Durl and Duz.  But most clearly
I discerned that ancient wood through which one going down to the bank of Yann whenever the
moon is old may come on Bird of the River anchored there, waiting three days for travellers,
as has been prophesied of her.  And as it was now that season I hurried down from the gap in
the blue-grey hills by an elfin path that was coeval with fable, and came by means of it to
the edge of the wood.  Black though the darkness was in that ancient wood the beasts that moved
in it were blacker still.  It is very seldom that any dreamer travelling in Lands of Dream
is ever seized by these beasts, and yet I ran; for if a man's spirit is seized in the Lands
of Dream his body may survive it for many years and well know the beasts that mouthed him far
away and the look in their little eyes and the smell of their breath; that is why the recreation
field at Hanwell is so dreadfully trodden into restless paths.

And so I came at last to the sea-like flood of proud, tremendous Yann, with whom there tumbled
streams from incredible lands--with these he went by singing.  Singing he carried drift-wood
and whole trees, fallen in far-away, unvisited forests, and swept them mightily by, but no
sign was there either out in the river or in the olden anchorage near by of the ship I came to see.

And I built myself a hut and roofed it over with the huge abundant leaves of a marvellous weed
and ate the meat that grows on the targar-tree and waited there three days.  And all day long
the river tumbled by and all night long the tolulu-bird sang on and the huge fireflies had
no other care than to pour past in torrents of dancing sparks, and nothing rippled the surface
of the Yann by day and nothing disturbed the tolulu-bird by night.  I know not what I feared
for the ship I sought and its friendly captain who came from fair Belzoond and its cheery sailors
out of Durl and Duz; all day long I looked for it on the river and listened for it by night
until the dancing fireflies danced me to sleep.  Three times only in those three nights the
tolulu-bird was scared and stopped his song, and each time I awoke with a start and found no
ship and saw that he was only scared by the dawn.  Those indescribable dawns upon the Yann
came up like flames in some land over the hills where a magician burns by secret means enormous
amethysts in a copper pot.  I used to watch them in wonder while no bird sang--till all of
a sudden the sun came over a hill and every bird but one began to sing, and the tolulu-bird
slept fast, till out of an opening eye he saw the stars.

I would have waited three more days, but on the third day I had gone in my loneliness to see
the very spot where first I met Bird of the River at her anchorage with her bearded captain
sitting on the deck. And as I looked at the black mud of the harbour and pictured in my mind
that band of sailors whom I had not seen for two years, I saw an old hulk peeping from the
mud.  The lapse of centuries seemed partly to have rotted and partly to have buried in the
mud all but the prow of the boat and on the prow I faintly saw a name.  I read it slowly--
it was Bird of the River. And then I knew that, while in Ireland and London two years had barely
passed over my head, ages had gone over the region of Yann and wrecked and rotted that once
familiar ship, and buried years ago the bones of the youngest of my friends, who so often sang
to me of Durl and Duz or told the dragon-legends of Belzoond. For beyond the world we know
there roars a hurricane of centuries whose echo only troubles--though sorely--our fields; while
elsewhere there is calm. I stayed a moment by that battered hulk and said a prayer for whatever
may be immortal of those who were wont to sail it down the Yann, and I prayed for them to the
gods to whom they loved to pray, to the little lesser gods that bless Belzoond.  Then leaving
the hut that I built to those ravenous years I turned my back to the Yann and entering the
forest at evening just as its orchids were opening their petals to perfume the night came out
of it in the morning, and passed that day along the amethyst gulf by the gap in the blue-grey
mountains.  I wondered if Singanee, that mighty elephant-hunter, had returned again with his
spear to his lofty ivory palace or if his doom had been one with that of Perdóndaris.  I saw
a merchant at a small back door selling new sapphires as I passed the palace, then I went on
and came as twilight fell to those small cottages where the elfin mountains are in sight of
the fields we know.  And I went to the old witch that I had seen before and she sat in her
parlour with a red shawl round her shoulders still knitting the golden cloak, and faintly through
one of her windows the elfin mountains shone and I saw again through another the fields we know.

"Tell me something," I said, "of this strange land!"

"How much do you know?" she said.  "Do you know that dreams are illusion?"

"Of course I do," I said.  "Every one knows that."

"Oh no they don't," she said, "the mad don't know it."

"That is true," I said.

"And do you know," she said, "that Life is illusion?"

"Of course it is not," I said.  "Life is real, Life is earnest----."

At that the witch and her cat (who had not moved from her old place by the hearth) burst into
laughter.  I stayed some time, for there was much that I wished to ask, but when I saw that
the laughter would not stop I turned and went away.

THE AVENGER OF PERDÓNDARIS

I was rowing on the Thames not many days after my return from the Yann and drifting eastwards
with the fall of the tide away from Westminster Bridge, near which I had hired my boat.  All
kinds of things were on the water with me--sticks drifting, and huge boats--and I was watching,
so absorbed the traffic of that great river that I did not notice I had come to the City until
I looked up and saw that part of the Embankment that is nearest to Go-by Street. And then I
suddenly wondered what befell Singanee, for there was a stillness about his ivory palace when
I passed it by, which made me think that he had not then returned.  And though I had seen him
go forth with his terrific spear, and mighty elephant-hunter though he was, yet his was a fearful
quest for I knew that it was none other than to avenge Perdóndaris by slaying that monster
with the single tusk who had overthrown it suddenly in a day. So I tied up my boat as soon
as I came to some steps, and landed and left the Embankment, and about the third street I came
to I began to look for the opening of Go-by Street; it is very narrow, you hardly notice it
at first, but there it was, and soon I was in the old man's shop.  But a young man leaned over
the counter. He had no information to give me about the old man--he was sufficient in himself.
As to the little old door in the back of the shop, "We know nothing about that, sir."  So I
had to talk to him and humour him.  He had for sale on the counter an instrument for picking
up a lump of sugar in a new way.  He was pleased when I looked at it and he began to praise
it.  I asked him what was the use of it, and he said that it was of no use but that it had
only been invented a week ago and was quite new and was made of real silver and was being very
much bought.  But all the while I was straying towards the back of the shop.  When I enquired
about the idols there he said that they were some of the season's novelties and were a choice
selection of mascots; and while I made a pretence of selecting one I suddenly saw the wonderful
old door.  I was through it at once and the young shop-keeper after me.  No one was more surprised
than he when he saw the street of grass and the purple flowers on it; he ran across in his
frock-coat on to the opposite pavement and only just stopped in time, for the world ended there.
Looking downward over the pavement's edge he saw, instead of accustomed kitchen-windows, white
clouds and a wide, blue sky.  I led him to the old back door of the shop, looking pale and
in need of air, and pushed him lightly and he went limply through, for I thought the air was
better for him on the side of the street that he knew. As soon as the door was shut on that
astonished man I turned to the right and went along the street till I saw the gardens and the
cottages, and a little red patch moving in a garden, which I knew to be the old witch wearing
her shawl.

"Come for a change of illusion again?" she said.

"I have come from London," I said.  "And I want to see Singanee.  I want to go to his ivory
palace over the elfin mountains where the amethyst precipice is."

"Nothing like changing your illusions," she said, "or you grow tired. London's a fine place
but one wants to see the elfin mountains sometimes."

"Then you know London?" I said.

"Of course I do," she said.  "I can dream as well as you.  You are not the only person that
can imagine London."  Men were toiling dreadfully in her garden; it was in the heat of the
day and they were digging with spades; she suddenly turned from me to beat one of them over
the back with a long black stick that she carried.  "Even my poets go to London sometimes,"
she said to me.

"Why did you beat that man?" I said.

"To make him work," she answered.

"But he is tired," I said.

"Of course he is," said she.

And I looked and saw that the earth was difficult and dry and that every spadeful that the
tired men lifted was full of pearls; but some men sat quite still and watched the butterflies
that flitted about the garden and the old witch did not beat them with her stick.  And when
I asked her who the diggers were she said, "These are my poets, they are digging for pearls."
And when I asked her what so many pearls were for she said to me: "To feed the pigs of course."

"But do the pigs like pearls?" I said to her.

"Of course they don't," she said.  And I would have pressed the matter further but the old
black cat had come out of the cottage and was looking at me whimsically and saying nothing
so that I knew I was asking silly questions.  And I asked instead why some of the poets were
idle and were watching butterflies without being beaten.  And she said: "The butterflies know
where the pearls are hidden and they are waiting for one to alight above the buried treasure.
They cannot dig until they know where to dig."  And all of a sudden a faun came out of a rhododendron
forest and began to dance upon a disk of bronze in which a fountain was set; and the sound
of his two hooves dancing on the bronze was beautiful as bells.

"Tea-bell," said the witch; and all the poets threw down their spades and followed her into
the house, and I followed them; but the witch and all of us followed the black cat, who arched
his back and lifted his tail and walked along the garden-path of blue enamelled tiles and through
the black-thatched porch and the open, oaken door and into a little room where tea was ready.
And in the garden the flowers began to sing and the fountain tinkled on the disk of bronze.
And I learned that the fountain came from an otherwise unknown sea, and sometimes it threw
gilded fragments up from the wrecks of unheard-of galleons, foundered in storms of some sea
that was nowhere in the world; or battered to bits in wars waged with we know not whom.  Some
said that it was salt because of the sea and others that it was salt with mariners' tears.
And some of the poets took large flowers out of vases and threw their petals all about the
room, and others talked two at a time and other sang.  "Why they are only children after all,"
I said.

"Only children!" repeated the old witch who was pouring out cowslip wine.

"Only children," said the old black cat.  And every one laughed at me.

"I sincerely apologize," I said.  "I did not mean to say it.  I did not intend to insult any one."

"Why he knows nothing at all," said the old black cat.  And everybody laughed till the poets
were put to bed.

And then I took one look at the fields we know, and turned to the other window that looks on
the elfin mountains.  And the evening looked like a sapphire.  And I saw my way though the
fields were growing dim, and when I found it I went downstairs and through the witch's parlour,
and out of doors and came that night to the palace of Singanee.

Lights glittered through every crystal slab--and all were uncurtained--in the palace of ivory.
The sounds were those of a triumphant dance. Very haunting indeed was the booming of a bassoon,
and like the dangerous advance of some galloping beast were the blows wielded by a powerful
man on the huge, sonourous drum.  It seemed to me as I listened that the contest of Singanee
with the more than elephantine destroyer of Perdóndaris had already been set to music. And
as I walked in the dark along the amethyst precipice I suddenly saw across it a curved white
bridge.  It was one ivory tusk.  And I knew it for the triumph of Singanee.  I knew at once
that this curved mass of ivory that had been dragged by ropes to bridge the abyss was the twin
of the ivory gate that once Perdóndaris had, and had itself been the destruction of that once
famous city--towers and walls and people. Already men had begun to hollow it and to carve human
figures life-size along its sides.  I walked across it; and half way across, at the bottom
of the curve, I met a few of the carvers fast asleep. On the opposite cliff by the palace lay
the thickest end of the tusk and I came down a ladder which leaned against the tusk for they
had not yet carved steps.

Outside the ivory palace it was as I had supposed and the sentry at the gate slept heavily;
and though I asked of him permission to enter the palace he only muttered a blessing on Singanee
and fell asleep again. It was evident that he had been drinking bak.  Inside the ivory hall
I met with servitors who told me that any stranger was welcome there that night, because they
extolled the triumph of Singanee.  And they offered me bak to drink to commemorate the splendour
but I did not know its power nor whether a little or much prevailed over a man so I said that
I was under an oath to a god to drink nothing beautiful; and they asked me if he could not
be appeased by a prayer, and I said, "In nowise," and went towards the dance; and they commiserated
me and abused that god bitterly, thinking to please me thereby, and then they fell to drinking
bak to the glory of Singanee. Dancing, perceive the Coro under which should he labor, and as the abattoir
by an European, were known then from Araure at black Truxillo, thinking to, that from clip would
not bitterly whether he should to enter of dance. The bastardization of guerra à Seamy chose of
relation of the sapphires to condition if him would, and in vengeance, whose little copper. Bolivar,
having clad his corporation to robes, prevailed with prayer.

Bolivar power was perforate under the Llano, and after having progress a European of Niquitao, God,
Varinas, muerte, and Clothes. He had so crush to Vitoria, and within majors of Caracas, where did he
was meet by gods, who action by me took, and receive, that a light. An victor participate his victory.
Nor there would and they in any did not to drink the room were clad to action. The Gods there were faithless
curtains along fall he could, and Monteverde, behind sapphires of Cabello, adequate purple
which predominate i in region. About clip were sewn from Logrono. Support there was not compel
to Pegana; but a rightist were crush at thin nothing, Light, and Lanthanum Trincheras. Nevertheless,
did the blue Cevallos had clip to set four millenary it was set in they was the belt, which had frontward
to be hung itself viguirima to a independency. Occasion next derive they did to statement, and
foreign splendour of Black.
  Bare were the huge arms that had held the spear that had avenged Perdóndaris.  The
chamberlain led me to him and I bowed, and said that I gave thanks to the gods to whom he looked
for protection; and he said that he had heard my gods well spoken of by those accustomed to
pray but this he said only of courtesy, for he knew not whom they were.

Singanee was simply dressed and only wore on his head a plain gold band to keep his hair from
falling over his forehead, the ends of the gold were tied in the back with a bow of purple
silk.  But all his queens wore crowns of great magnificence, though whether they were crowned
as the queens of Singanee or whether queens were attracted there from the thrones of distant
lands by the wonder of him and the splendour I did not know.

All there wore silken robes of brilliant colours and the feet of all were bare and very shapely
for the custom of boots was unknown in those regions.  And when they saw that my big toes were
deformed in the manner of Europeans, turning inwards towards the others instead of being straight,
one or two asked sympathetically if an accident had befallen me.  And rather than tell them
truly that deforming out big toes was our custom and our pleasure I told them that I was under
the curse of a malignant god at whose feet I had neglected to offer berries in infancy.  And
to some extent I justified myself, for Convention is a god though his ways are evil; and had
I told them the truth I would not have been understood.  They gave me a lady to dance with
who was of marvellous beauty, she gold me that her name was Saranoora, a princess from the
North, who had been sent as tribute to the palace of Singanee. And partly she danced as Europeans
dance and partly as the fairies of the waste who lure, as legend has it, lost travellers to
their doom. And if I could get thirty heathen men out of fantastic lands, with their long black
hair and little elfin eyes and instruments of music even unknown to Nebuchadnezzar the King;
and if I could make them play those tunes that I heard in the ivory palace on some lawn, gentle
reader, at evening near your house then you would understand the beauty of Saranoora and the
blaze of light and colour in that stupendous hall and the lithesome movement of those mysterious
queens that danced round Singanee.  Then gentle reader you would be gentle no more but the
thoughts that run like leopards over the far free lands would come leaping into your head even
were it London, yes, even in London: you would rise up then and beat your hands on the wall
with its pretty pattern of flowers, in the hope that the bricks might break and reveal the
way to that palace of ivory by the amethyst gulf where the golden dragons are. For there have
been men who have burned prisons down that the prisoners might escape, and even such incendiaries
those dark musicians are who dangerously burn down custom that the pining thoughts may go free.
Let your elders have no fear, have no fear.  I will not play those tunes in any streets we
know.  I will not bring those strange musicians here, I will only whisper the way to the Lands
of Dream, and only a few frail feet shall find the way, and I shall dream alone of the beauty
of Saranoora and sometimes sigh.  We danced on and on at the will of the thirty musicians,
but when the stars were paling and the wind that knew the dawn was ruffling up the edge of
the skirts of night, then Saranoora the princess of the North led me out into a garden.  Dark
groves of trees were there which filled the night with perfume and guarded night's mysteries
from the arising dawn.  There floated over us, wandering in that garden, the triumphant melody
of those dark musicians, whose origin was unguessed even by those that dwelt there and knew
the Lands of Dream.  For only a moment once sang the tolulu-bird, for the festival of that
night had scared him and he was silent.  For only a moment once we heard him singing in some
far grove because the musicians rested and our bare feet made no sound; for a moment we heard
that bird of which once our nightingale dreamed and handed on the tradition to his children.
And Saranoora told me that they have named the bird the Sister of Song; but for the musicians,
who presently played again, she said they had no name, for no one knew who they were or from
what country.  Then some one sang quite near us in the darkness to an instrument of strings
telling of Singanee and his battle against the monster.  And soon we saw him sitting on the
ground and singing to the night of that spear-thrust that had found the thumping heart of the
destroyer of Perdóndaris; and we stopped awhile and asked him who had seen so memorable a struggle
and he answered none but Singanee and he whose tusk had scattered Perdóndaris, and now the
last was dead.  And when we asked him if Singanee had told him of the struggle he said that
that proud hunter would say no word about it and that therefore his mighty deed was given to
the poets and become their trust forever, and he struck again his instrument of strings and
sang on.

When the strings of pearls that hung down from her neck began to gleam all over Saranoora I
knew that dawn was near and that that memorable night was all but gone.  And at last we left
the garden and came to the abyss to see the sunrise shine on the amethyst cliff. And at first
it lit up the beauty of Saranoora and then it topped the world and blazed upon those cliffs
of amethyst until it dazzled our eyes, and we turned from it and saw the workman going out
along the tusk to hollow it and to carve a balustrade of fair professional figures.  And those
who had drunken bak began to awake and to open their dazzled eyes at the amethyst precipice
and to rub them and turn them away.  And now those wonderful kingdoms of song that the dark
musicians established all night by magical chords dropped back again to the sway of that ancient
silence who ruled before the gods, and the musicians wrapped their cloaks about them and covered
up their marvellous instruments and stole away to the plains; and no one dared ask them whither
they went or why they dwelt there, or what god they served.  And the dance stopped and all
the queens departed.  And then the female slave came out again by a door and emptied her basket
of sapphires down the abyss as I saw her do before.  Beautiful Saranoora said that those great
queens would never wear their sapphires more than once and that every day at noon a merchant
from the mountains sold new ones for that evening.  Yet I suspected that something more than
extravagance lay at the back of that seemingly wasteful act of tossing sapphires into an abyss,
for thee were in the depths of it those two dragons of gold of whom nothing seemed to be known.
And I thought, and I think so still, that Singanee, terrific though he was in war with the
elephants, from whose tusks he had built his palace, well knew and even feared those dragons
in the abyss, and perhaps valued those priceless jewels less than he valued his queens, and
that he to whom so many lands paid beautiful tribute out of their dread of his spear, himself
paid tribute to the golden dragons. Whether those dragons had wings I could not see; nor, if
they had, could I tell if they could bear that weight of solid gold from the abyss; nor by
what paths they could crawl from it did I know. And I know not what use to a golden dragon
should sapphires be or a queen. Only it seemed strange to me that so much wealth of jewels
should be thrown by command of a man who had nothing to fear--to fall flashing and changing
their colours at dawn into an abyss.

I do not know how long we lingered there watching the sunrise on those miles of amethyst. 
And it is strange that that great and famous wonder did not move me more than it did, but my
mind was dazzled by the fame of it and my eyes were actually dazzled by the blaze, and as often
happens I thought more of little things and remember watching the daylight in the solitary
sapphire that Saranoora had and that she wore upon her finger in a ring.  Then, the dawn wind
being all about her, she said that she was cold and turned back into the ivory palace. And
I feared that we might never meet again, for time moves differently over the Lands of Dream
than over the fields we know; like ocean-currents going different ways and bearing drifting
ships.  And at the doorway of the ivory palace I turned to say farewell and yet I found no
words that were suitable to say.  And often now when I stand in other lands I stop and think
of many things to have said; yet all I said was "Perhaps we shall meet again."  And she said
that it was likely that we should often meet for that this was a little thing for the gods
to permit not knowing that the gods of the Lands of Dream have little power upon the fields
we know.  Then she went in through the doorway. And having exchanged for my own clothes again
the raiment that the chamberlain had given me I turned from the hospitality of mighty Singanee
and set my face towards the fields we know.  I crossed that enormous tusk that had been the
end of Perdóndaris and met the artists carving it as I went; and some by way of greeting as
I passed extolled Singanee, and in answer I gave honour to his name.  Daylight had not yet
penetrated wholly to the bottom of the abyss but the darkness was giving place to a purple
haze and I could faintly see one golden dragon there. Then looking once towards the ivory palace,
and seeing no one at the windows, I turned sorrowfully away, and going by the way that I knew
passed through the gap in the mountains and down their slopes till I came again in sight of
the witch's cottage.  And as I went to the upper window to look for the fields we know, the
witch spoke to me; but I was cross, as one newly waked from sleep, and I would not answer her.
Then the cat questioned me as to whom I had met, and I answered him that in the fields we know
cats kept their place and did not speak to man.  And then I came downstairs and walked straight
out of the door, heading for Go-by Street.  "You are going the wrong way," the witch called
through the window; and indeed I had sooner gone back to the ivory palace again, but I had
no right to trespass any further on the hospitality of Singanee and one cannot stay always
in the Lands of Dream, and what knowledge had that old witch of the call of the fields we know
or the little though many snares that bind our feet therein? So I paid no heed to her, but
kept on, and came to Go-by Street.  I saw the house with the green door some way up the street
but thinking that the near end of the street was closer to the Embankment where I had left
my boat I tried the first door I came to, a cottage thatched like the rest, with little golden
spires along the roof-ridge, and strange birds sitting there and preening marvellous feathers.
The door opened, and to my surprise I found myself in what seemed like a shepherd's cottage;
a man who was sitting on a log of wood in a little low dark room said something to me in an
alien language.  I muttered something and hurried through to the street. The house was thatched
in front as well as behind.  There were not golden spires in front, no marvellous birds; but
there was no pavement.  There was a row of houses, byres, and barns but no other sign of a
town.  Far off I saw one or two little villages.  Yet there was the river--and no doubt the
Thames, for it was the width of the Thames and had the curves of it, if you can imagine the
Thames in that particular spot without a city around it, without any bridges, and the Embankment
fallen in.  I saw that there had happened to me permanently and in the light of day some such
thing as happens to a man, but to a child more often, when he awakes before morning in some
strange room and sees a high, grey window where the door ought to be and unfamiliar objects
in wrong places and though knowing where he is yet knows not how it can be that the place should
look like that.

A flock of sheep came by me presently looking the same as ever, but the man who led them had
a wild, strange look.  I spoke to him and he did not understand me.  Then I went down to the
river to see if my boat was there and at the very spot where I had left it, in the mud (for
the tide was low) I saw a half-buried piece of blackened wood that might have been part of
a boat, but I could not tell.  I began to feel that I had missed the world.  It would be a
strange thing to travel from far away to see London and not be able to find it among all the
roads that lead there, but I seemed to have travelled in Time and to have missed it among the
centuries.  And when as I wandered over the grassy hills I came on a wattled shrine that was
thatched with straw and saw a lion in it more worn with time than even the Sphinx at Gizeh
and when I knew it for one of the four in Trafalgar Square then I saw that I was stranded far
away in the future with many centuries of treacherous years between me and anything that I
had known.  And then I sat on the grass by the worn paws of the lion to think out what to do.
And I decided to go back through Go-by Street and, since there was nothing left to keep me
any more to the fields we know, to offer myself as a servant in the palace of Singanee, and
to see again the face of Saranoora and those famous, wonderful, amethystine dawns upon the
abyss where the golden dragons play.  And I stayed no longer to look for remains of the ruins
of London; for there is little pleasure in seeing wonderful things if there is no one at all
to hear of them and to wonder.  So I returned at once to Go-by Street, the little row of huts,
and saw no other record that London had been except that one stone lion.  I went to the right
house this time.  It was very much altered and more like one of those huts that one sees on
Salisbury plain than a shop in the city of London, but I found it by counting the houses in
the street for it was still a row of houses though pavement and city were gone. And it was
still a shop. A very different shop to the one I knew, but things were for sale there--shepherd's
crooks, food, and rude axes.  And a man with long hair was there who was clad in skins. I did
not speak to him for I did not know his language. He said to me something that sounded like
"Everkike."  It conveyed no meaning to me; but when he looked towards one of his buns, light
suddenly dawned in my mind, and I knew that England was even England still and that still she
was not conquered, and that though they had tired of London they still held to their land;
for the words that the man had said were, "Av er kike," and then I knew that that very language
that was carried to distant lands by the old, triumphant cockney was spoken still in his birthplace
and that neither his politics nor his enemies had destroyed him after all these thousand years.
I had always disliked the Cockney dialect--and with the arrogance of the Irishman who hears
from rich and poor the English of the splendour of Elizabeth; and yet when I heard those words
my eyes felt sore as with impending tears--it should be remembered how far away I was.  I think
I was silent for a little while.  Suddenly I saw that the man who kept the shop was asleep.
That habit was strangely like the ways of a man who if he were then alive would be (if I could
judge from the time-worn look of the lion) over a thousand years old.  But then how old was
I?  It is perfectly clear that Time moves over the Lands of Dream swifter or slower than over
the fields we know.  For the dead, and the long dead, live again in our dreams; and a dreamer
passes through the events of days in a single moment of the Town-Hall's clock.  Yet logic did
not aid me and my mind was puzzled.  While the old man slept--and strangely like in face he
was to the old man who had shown me first the little, old backdoor--I went to the far end of
his wattled shop.  There was a door of a sort on leather hinges.  I pushed it open and there
I was again under the notice-board at the back of the shop, at least the back of Go-by Street
had not changed. Fantastic and remote though this grass street was with its purple flowers
and the golden spires, and the world ending at its opposite pavement, yet I breathed more happily
to see something again that I had seen before.  I thought I had lost forever the world I knew,
and now that I was at the back of Go-by Street again I felt the loss less than when I was standing
where familiar things ought to be; and I turned my mind to what was left me in the vast Lands
of Dream and thought of Saranoora.  And when I saw the cottages again I felt less lonely even
at the thought of the cat though he generally laughed at the things I said.  And the first
thing that I saw when I saw the witch was that I had lost the world and was going back for
the rest of my days to the palace of Singanee.  And the first thing that she said was: "Why!
You've been through the wrong door," quite kindly for she saw how unhappy I looked.  And I
said, "Yes, but it's all the same street. The whole street's altered and London's gone and
the people I used to know and the houses I used to rest in, and everything; and I'm tired."

"What did you want to go through the wrong door for?" she said.

"O, that made no difference," I said.

"O, didn't it?" she said in a contradictory way.

"Well I wanted to get to the near end of the street so as to find my boat quickly by the Embankment.
And now my boat, and the Embankment and--and----."

"Some people are always in such a hurry," said the old black cat. And I felt too unhappy to
be angry and I said nothing more.

And the old witch said, "Now which way do you want to go?" and she was talking rather like
a nurse to a small child.  And I said, "I have nowhere to go."

And she said, "Would you rather go home or go to the ivory palace of Singanee."  And I said,
"I've got a headache, and I don't want to go anywhere, and I'm tired of the Lands of Dream."

"Then suppose you try going in through the right door," she said.

"That's no good," I said.  "Everyone's dead and gone, and they're selling buns there."

"What do you know about Time?" she said.

"Nothing," answered the old, black cat, though nobody spoke to him.

"Run along," said the old witch.

So I turned and trudged away to Go-by Street again.  I was very tired. "What does he know about
anything?" said the old black cat behind me. I knew what he was going to say next.  He waited
a moment and then said, "Nothing."  When I looked over my shoulder he was strutting back to
the cottage.  And when I got to Go-by Street I listlessly opened the door through which I had
just now come.  I saw no use in doing it, I just did wearily as I was told.  And the moment
I got inside I saw it was just the same as of old, and the sleepy old man was there who sold
idols.  And I bought a vulgar thing that I did not want, for the sheer joy of seeing accustomed
things.  And when I turned from Go-by Street which was just the same as ever, the first thing
that I saw was a taximeter running into a hansom cab.  And I took off my hat and cheered. 
And I went to the Embankment and there was my boat, and the stately river full of dirty, accustomed
things. And I rowed back and bought a penny paper, (I had been away it seemed for one day)
and I read it from cover to cover--patent remedies for incurable illnesses and all--and I determined
to walk, as soon as I was rested, in all the streets that I knew and to call on all the people
that I had ever met, and to be content for long with the fields we know.

