"Now, Martin, be reasonable. You know Mr. Arnold spends his summers there. Would you spoil
Millie's chances of making one of the best matches in the city?"

He would shrug his shoulders and wonder where the money was to come from. Meanwhile he knew
that his partners were anxious. They had been strong, and had endured the evil times for years
without wavering, but now were compelled to obtain a credit more and more extended, in the
hope of tiding themselves over the long period of depression.

This increasing business stagnation occasioned a deepening anxiety to her husband and a larger
resort to his sustaining stimulant. The elephant turned to
with snake-like coil in the mouth.

Then he threw like a fountain the trunk and shot up unexpectedly and
suddenly such enormous dark and wild cry against the people that they
all were silent for a moment.

»Sun . .

You like you, "said the painter, and pocketed the sword.

The face of the leader remained unmoved over the bows and contemptuously, as if he Jumps.

It was the evening a huge pressure on the landscape.

Were you when the sun went down, hot and dusty, pulled down a narrow train, plane. They flowed
a thin clot through the yellowed grass and disappeared like a gray
point.

By late afternoon, the nurses sat with the painter, who was long on
a rocking chair and smoking.

They were silent for a long time.

"Can you imagine the jungle," he said. She smiled: "No -"

". . . the edge of the jungle, sister. An elephant rips apart lianas
appear.

The Sun on swings, red. He meet her screams. . .

And here: o fatigue. . . o fatigue . . . "

She looked thoughtfully at him.

Then she put a needle through a lilac leaf and said slowly: "It is your desire, Forest, I know.
I know that you are always clinging to being called Their crisis! You know nothing? "

He did not know.

He shook his head, smiled and said no.

Then she softly said, "The trees. . . me. "

Again the smile came over his face, but it was as if they get control
over the content of the face and as if shaping it like an acid eating.

His muscles tense were subjected to a second-like decay. They disappeared under the skin.

All white, he raised his head: "I have. . . ha - - - be me. . . "

Shaken by heavy horror he twisted arms through the air.

His eyes were round, ball example and almost like glass and stared
across the plain.

He gasped and pointed to himself: "Give Me this stone. "

He seemed to break through the threshold of a strange subconscious.

He had all the weeks had only a life that had its roots in his last
illness.

Although he knew the Things and events of the time of his life and even before. But at that
moment seemed him that a thin skin was over and that his knowledge
after the burst For the first new, big and infinitely awful again
inflows.

He took the stone that gave him the nurse. It was very hard and angular. He expressed into his
hands, held it to his forehead, raised and examined him and set him on the knee. He felt, as
the fear vanish before the sudden emptiness around him and how the
weight of real stone it back to the natural life and the beloved Earth
(Prometheus) zurückriß.

Then he threw away the stone and said:

"Sister, you do not know that. You do not know this, that the sky suddenly an abyss shining and
gentle escapes and the earth below you will escape a whirlpool and on the horizon immeasurably
rises and begins to absorb, you seem to turn itself slowly. Sister, you're stuck. It would disturb
me very much if you were moving. Listen: I was never a coward. . . never. . . "

She moved her quiet face back and forth.

"You think of my awards," he shouted at her.

"No. Do not say anything. It should Do not think. This is beyond my view. Remain seated. They
should at my soul and courage to think. Can you? He - - - "

She said her life was not such a special thing that they did not even
this virtue.

Then he started crying, was very quiet and whispered, "You are wrong, sister. . . It is everything.
. . al. . . it - - "

He sobbed with a silent rending sound.

Then he began to speak again, cold and hard.

His voice was flying from his mouth, as she was by him, unrelated
to the lips, the they formed, flowed out of some dark distance.

His head rose, pale and refined over the edge of the chair, and the
skin of her temples was shaking on the blue veins.

"Central Germany. . . Sister, the second return from the front to the Passion five by remote
hospitals. . . Central Germany in the west. . . and it was May. . . this is fabulous. The Rhine was
not far away. Silky and blue sky trembled.

We were there almost all officers in the last stage of the disease, such as assemblages of evil
almost here. . . just different, sweeter - indescribable. It was a modern castle with columnar
Bow and Wiener Keramik, my God.

Behind woods and hills and all around schweifige Valleys, slightly reduced. It was a fantastic
hygiene. Marble, white Gemöbel, dust sectors Solar windows, showers
from above, showering down.

There was an infinite length of extended blue dance hall with a big
shiny wings.

Paris millionaires had this Strenglin Temple built and given him a South African dancer, as
the most beautiful girl Europe trained in the sliding form of physical
music into it.

The girls were close in a City at that time.

The cherry blossom was. The countless trees beschwebten to know.

It flaggte three days.

Then was the fluffy rays in a crazy wind to the devil.

I do not love this flower. It is too soft. Already worpswede painter?

No, - yes, sister, what should you art what you want portrait?

O side issue, o minor matter! Life is currish more, I know.

Now, just as weak, timid, disgusting about this is fine as flowering branches, painted by these
People hypertrophied Empfindungsdestillatoren of being.

Life is broad, juicy, splashing, Sister: Harvesting on the Rhine,
herring in Holland, civic feast Alsace. . .

Then broke out all the apple trees. Below the flowers a little red, white hard top. The hills
was bursting full of them. Sometimes they stood up as trees.

I love them.

It smelled, sister - "

He threw back his face in a mad power, "I am afraid," he whispered.

She put her hand on his.

But he shook her off: "Let the --."

She let it. She sat closer to him. His voice began again:

"In the evening fell herds of nightingales in the trees and ruined the night with candy.

No one knows who did not see it: They throw up her neck, he suddenly singing, the sound was not, furiously
filled immediately is a round drum, a glowing bubble, almost larger than her body where it mingles
with the soft as to balloon to infinity could - and then they throw the heat of the long flash
of steely sounds most moving Verzücktseins in the inflamed darkness.

We had a blond fellow from Bornholm. He was mad when, after a storm from a wet lilac bush a dozen
nightingales singing with his suddenly aufklirrend Balance shook too hard.

Yes, that beauty kills thousands of times more than hatred and anger, you should know. What
I say You, sister. Where I want to go. . . listen - you hear me? . . . "

"You tell the ecstasy of life. . ., "The nurse said direction and moved.

"I tell the ecstasy of life. Yes. Rausch O, O Sun, O glory, O sweet.
. .

" He put his fists in the extreme pain and enthusiastic in the chest.

"One evening came thirty ladies, a prince and lords many.

It had a magical Art They wore silky dresses, sister, oh so fine from companies that do not know.
And It was like glass with shimmering melancholy and profiles.

There was Lampione.

There were moon.

Under the apple trees was a clearing. The hill and pushed slightly inclined to the horizon.

We all sat on chairs that were on the lawn. The prince had a sword in a Hand, in the other flowers.

Then
the girls, young women were aged up to twenty, which had touched a man and only saw a few that
are female Narcissus, only in the unrolled suppleness long halls
in the endless asked mirror in their bodies felt.

They wore tunics small, were nothing like, and danced on this inclined plane towards us among
the trees, dancing with hips, flowing like the smooth jumps of the leopard, legs. . . dumb
Intoxication, and poor, they swung in the wild terror of beauty in
the moon into it.

All then went back to the castle, I climbed the highest hill. . . "

He paused. His eyes appeared shrouded in the depths of the late afternoon.

His words then fell as he uplift again, violent, and more sharply
and in a monotone speed.

They fell, as would a light in full armor and was beating the giant
circle swing two arms and two swords whistling ever faster through
the air.

He said:

"It was quiet, almost soundlessly. Sometimes just fell in long lines
roaring heavy Bumblebees at the white level of the trees.

It was warm, soft, water vapor suspended in the air.

That could vibrate the distance and the stars had something like
this moist sheen.

Hill pushed smooth over hills, line over line swinging in the Rhine valley. Trees sprang up
slopes, at night to and fro, and were closer to each other inclined dance. Above hung the moon.

That
night was outrageous in its opulence. In her wet heat. In its eerie increased silent roar for
existence and trunk range of fullness of life.

Nurse: I was thinking of a sudden lightning-way to the wildest and greatest things in my life.

I
knew of ridges in the Bavarian mountains, I had overrun the play as a boy. I saw the heavy madness
of African hunts.

Saw the broken head in beuligen Whore house of the Genoese port district, in the moment of awakening
in dirty distorted Pillow. I was aware of the outcry in advertising fetzender grenades, the explosion
of drunken Night battle. I saw a sailboat capsized in Lake Starnberg, saw the waiver by a large
(Weep weep, o) fine girl eye, saw the rotting corpse of his friend from the confirmation hanged
in the park, saw the death of Maria Andersson, I have loved the beauty and dancing, like a colorful
bird.

I knew at the moment of stillness in the pupil of the Persian hung, as he struck in a Paris
Spielspelunke the dagger over my shoulder in the back - -

What do you know, sister, what a man is difficult and dangerous. . .

But I knew at that moment, that I would repeat all this with a smile
that I sing like an angel van Dyck could go a thousand mouths of cannons.
. . instead of this minute . . . that this is all experienced a small
test, or a despicable comparison and Low and unreal about gravity
is against this one moment of experiencing.

For it happened that I propose to the raging candy of the night, in the dark rushing life as a closed
swarm of bees that I propose to the intoxication of the monstrous
Life threw me and cried and limitless fear of death began.

Death, which seemed a cruel thing to surface and to estimate very low, where he I was almost like
a ball, a poison or a dagger. . . and I stayed. . . in this Form.
. . even later.

In this form. . . in this form.

I cried.

And there was swimming out of the castle the hungry desire of a violin,
rose, rang like a sharp beetles, raced around the hill cut, desperately
yearning strong in the blaze the white trees and circled the horizon
into quivering tirades.

And I felt the hand which led them, with the same feeling felt the
soft flesh of the young girl, she played the quick touch of her chest,
grazing her leg, the quivering soft flesh with the silver fuzz, the
girlish way of overriding Course, the royal sweetness. . . and I yelled,
sister!

I ran into the grove and shouted: - do not die! - I yelled.

Tore small branches and chewed it bored the face in full effervescence branches, prayed, cursed,
wept. . . there were no God, who solved it.

I do not understand: the death of ridicule, fear of life. . .

But everywhere there was death. The flowers were burning terribly on the lower surfaces. Thousands
of times swelled Blood in the air.

A giant spider clutching lacing together the Getanz the apple trees,
they trembled at terrified terror.

Rainbow shot up through the night. Murder was dark in the branches. I oppressed on the forehead.
The moon was mild.

But the star turned around and flashed cold as the tips proffered countless swords.

And the silence stretched, as if it would tear, and the silence of
the full excessive Drunkenness of the night came in motion, turned
around and began to circle and became quite Far in the sky a dark
whirlpool that sucked and sucked -

I screamed.

Hell. Shocked and beside myself. . . I did not want to die.

Did not want to die. No. . shouted -
Sister, I have afterwards, before I came here before my fever, death
known in many Phases, close by me or throwing back to me at the last
moment of starting. I stood in it as the center of an explosion of
numerous shrapnel.

I'm not lying. I raised my hand to crush him.

I
raised my hand, despicable, and struck his face -

But that night
there. . . I recognized the deep death in the most monstrous swelling
of life.

I ran into the palace, crept into a corner and I was afraid.

I
was despised, scorned, ridiculed. Man did his utmost to explain the
incomprehensible in civilian life: they doubted my sanity. One would
have spit me.

I would have begged: life. . . . Live . .

So it is.

Sister
- but I know, I know more now, more unbearable as everyone else. I
know that may happen monstrous deeds, endless fame be errafft of poets,
generals, Musicians and painters. . . the ultimate goal is death.
Others know this is not suspecting it, have but not the sharpness
ewigverkündlichen knowledge and Umsichfühlens.

As the world is colorful!
Easy rides run through the fairs. Erschwimmen the flyer numbing height
of the stars, rocked from nothing. Bands are playing in theaters and
gardens. Girls wear aprons in the house and strip to the ball and
the horses. . . the dogs are beautiful and of devotion. . . Cities
enlighten the evening with a gentle gas.

How can I feel this mellifluous
henceforth still appeal the fine and the general beauty; when I see
death in it at any time? And she must love boundless as ever and burning
as anyone because I know that life is so hard and so powerful high
the last. But my burning love will always come to die, so I'll thrown
back and forth be ahasverisch and a seething roar, between immense
adoration and deadly Knowledge.

I will have to live in inhuman tension
as the tension-free sucking me up. I will smile and, jumping from
the highest risk and experience to others, like me move from the arms
of countless women in the name of new ones. It is a great psychic
This love of life, sister.

I will not be able to rest.

Because risk
is a small moment and dying is a brilliant second. Beauty the knower
of the world but an infinite and eternal torment and threats emptiness.
I would not want you wandering to this realization, sister, because
you are a beautiful and have calm face.

I am swollen with joy for
the moment when I disconnect here. For all is as bleak and tired,
and without heroic.

You see, it's terrible when I look idly in the
distance. . . Sister, sister . . . as the horizon, then contracts,
like hills and seem to fluctuate into a throat disappear. Sometimes
it flashes silver. Now lift the plane. Staggering, gurgling the world
into the vortex. The void. . . the void -

Believe nothing. I know
that this is a vision that we stand firm and unshaken, as we believe
it. But I feel everything in the parable, and allegory is often us
the next obvious and confusing reality. I see much in the picture
because I was in an exaggerated recognized second over the life and
beyond have got used. "

He stopped and closed his eyes.

He added:
"Where have I felt the horror of death on the crushing, at this Place,
I mean, must sit the monstrous power of life -

So I called, I should
die, according to these trees. "

He pondered. And suddenly seemed
terrible to pounce on him.

But soon his distorted mouth formed in
smiling silence, and he whispered, half singing, somnambul: "The trees.
. . me - "

Then he shook his head, smiled quickly and said: ". .
. Dear sister - must They are not at all the death and be closer than
the life? "

"No, said" the nurses infinitely mild and firm, "it is
the opposite."

He looked at her in amazement.

But then it was as
rase the terrible experience of a recent gruesome voltage high again
in him.

He threw his hands in the air and ran out.

The nurse went
to the window and leaned out quietly. She saw him run out hurry and
turn into the yard.

There he stumbled on a watering can hovered briefly
in the air and then staggered to the side. He fell, stretched out
his hands and dug into a hill and into his face.

It was cow manure
from the stables of her morning.

The hill was steaming in a white
cloud of warm and beautiful.

But he did not head back the same, but
it had a few heart beats long there lie, for he felt a wonderful feeling
that this situation was ugly and dirty maybe and probably many a great
disgust making, but (which is much larger) deep and warm and so very
full life. Instead of wise, patient effort to develop a feeble constitution and to educate his
mind by systematic courses of study, he had been treated as an exotic all his days. And yet
it had been care without tenderness, or much manifestation of affection. Hot a thing had been
done to develop self-respect or self-reliance. Even more than most girls, he was made to feel
himself dependent on his parents. He had studied but little; he had read much, but in a desultory
way. Of business and of men's prompt, keen ways he was lamentably ignorant for one of his years,
and the consciousness of this made him shrink from the companionship of his own sex, and begat
a reticence whose chief cause was timidity. His parents' wealth had been nothing but a curse,
and they would learn eventually that while they could shield his person from the roughnesses
of the world they could not protect his mind and heart from those experiences which ever demand
manly strength and principle. As a result of their costly system, there were few more pitiable
objects in the city than Vinton Arnold as he stole under the cover of night to visit the girl
who was hoping--though more faintly after every day of waiting--that she might find in him
sustaining strength and love in her misfortunes.

But when she saw his white, haggard face and nervous, timid manner, she was almost shocked,
and exclaimed, with impulsive sympathy, "Mr. Arnold, you have been ill. I have done you wrong."

He did not quite understand her, and was indiscreet enough to repeat, "You have done me wrong,
Miss Millie?"

"Pardon me. Perhaps you do not know that we are in deep trouble. My father's firm has failed,
and we shall have to give up our home. In the evening, he gestured and formed
always a remarkable gesture in the air. His eyes would force me to comprehend. Always again he
made the motion, and a boundless raging fear came off his eyes. He thrust his tongue far as with
a dagger in the air, faster, more painful, pointed. But I did not understand.

The letter is the most terrible of woe. I have never found the address. It was in Marseille. The
moon threw the sea of ​​flat roofs with a light, that she, a flare-chain of mirrors, fires were
burning in the sky.

Arriving by boat roared up the frantic cries of pain of an Arab street.

Me

and Binetti, we want to go to Tunis.

I carried this letter in his pocket, and sometimes I made a vague gesture in the air and surprised and shocked
and wanted to force me to leave it. But they had power over I got raped and my imitation, and
so I ran a machine of frightful Gesture of the dying, along the quay. And I felt like I started
to get a name, the slowly round as from a point A to O lit with foreign palatals behind it. Until
I suddenly found myself and ran clutching his head in his fists out of the harbor. Two sergeants
came to my path.

I was in an alley, where I took a wine and threw a bank.

This was the only night where I wanted to die. - -

Mennigroten the death of wax over your left shoulder. . . No Sun .
. yes. . . beautiful . . . gave me the Finnish poet Karelainen, whose
real name is Grönquist. Grönquist is Swedish. Karelainen is Finnish,
That is the essential value Karelainens that he is clearly way and
no other means.

He turned and came slowly toward her. It was the painter in 1889
Freeman of the City of Zurich. had the sensation that excites the Gottfried-Keller-Medaille,
prompted the Federal Government, the medal for the anniversary of the Swiss transferred to the Confederation
champion.

