The Black Douglas

                                  By

                            S.R. Crockett

        Author of "The Raiders," "The Stickit Minister," etc.

                               New York
                       Doubleday & McClure Co.
                                 1899

                           COPYRIGHT, 1899,

                          By S.R. CROCKETT.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

The Black Douglas rides Home.

CHAPTER II

My Fair Lady

CHAPTER III

Two riding together

CHAPTER IV

The Rose-red Pavilion

CHAPTER V

The Witch Woman

CHAPTER VI

The Prisoning of Malise the Smith

CHAPTER VII

The Douglas Muster

CHAPTER VIII

The Crossing of the Ford

CHAPTER IX

Laurence sings a Hymn

CHAPTER X

The Braes of Balmaghie

CHAPTER XI

The Ambassador of France

CHAPTER XII

Mistress Maud Lindesay

CHAPTER XIII

A Daunting Summons

CHAPTER XIV

Captain of the Earl's Guard

CHAPTER XV

The Night Alarm

CHAPTER XVI

Sholto captures a Prisoner of Distinction

CHAPTER XVII

The Lamp is blown out

CHAPTER XVIII

The Morning Light

CHAPTER XIX

La Joyeuse baits her Hook

CHAPTER XX

Andro the Penman gives an Account of his Stewardship.

CHAPTER XXI

The Bailies of Dumfries

CHAPTER XXII

Wager of Battle

CHAPTER XXIII

Sholto wins Knighthood

CHAPTER XXIV

The Second Flouting of Maud Lindesay

CHAPTER XXV

The Dogs and the Wolf hold Council

CHAPTER XXVI

The Lion Tamer

CHAPTER XXVII

The Young Lords ride away

CHAPTER XXVIII

On the Castle Roof

CHAPTER XXIX

Castle Crichton

CHAPTER XXX

The Bower by yon Burnside

CHAPTER XXXI

The Gaberlunzie Man

CHAPTER XXXII

"Edinburgh Castle, Tower, and Town"

CHAPTER XXXIII

The Black Bull's Head

CHAPTER XXXIV

Betrayed with a Kiss

CHAPTER XXXV

The Lion at Bay

CHAPTER XXXVI

The Rising of the Douglases

CHAPTER XXXVII

A Strange Meeting

CHAPTER XXXVIII

The MacKims come to Thrieve

CHAPTER XXXIX

The Gift of the Countess.

CHAPTER XL

The Mission of James the Gross

CHAPTER XLI

The Withered Garland

CHAPTER XLII

Astarte the She-wolf

CHAPTER XLIII

Malise fetches a Clout

CHAPTER XLIV

Laurence takes New Service

CHAPTER XLV

The Boasting of Gilles de Sillé

CHAPTER XLVI

The Country of the Dread

CHAPTER XLVII

Cæsar Martin's Wife

CHAPTER XLVIII

The Mercy of La Meffraye

CHAPTER XLIX

The Battle with the Were-wolves

CHAPTER L

The Altar of Iron

CHAPTER LI

The Marshal's Chamber

CHAPTER LII

The Jesting of La Meffraye

CHAPTER LIII

Sybilla's Vengeance

CHAPTER LIV

The Cross under the Apron

CHAPTER LV

The Red Milk

CHAPTER LVI

The Shadow behind the Throne

CHAPTER LVII

The Tower of Death

CHAPTER LVIII

The White Tower of Machecoul

CHAPTER LIX

The Last Sacrifice to Barran-Sathanas

CHAPTER LX

His Demon hath deserted him

CHAPTER LXI

Leap Year in Galloway

THE BLACK DOUGLAS

CHAPTER I

THE BLACK DOUGLAS RIDES HOME

Merry fell the eve of Whitsunday of the year 1439, in the fairest and heartsomest spot in all
the Scottish southland. The twined May-pole had not yet been taken down from the house of Brawny
Kim, master armourer and foster father to William, sixth Earl of Douglas and Lord of Galloway.

Malise Kim, who by the common voice was well named "The Brawny," sat in his wicker chair before
his door, overlooking the island-studded, fairy-like loch of Carlinwark. In the smithy across
the green bare-trodden road, two of his elder sons were still hammering at some armour of choice.
But it was a ploy of their own, which they desired to finish that they might go trig and point-device
to the Earl's weapon-showing to-morrow on the braes of Balmaghie. Sholto and Laurence were
the names of the two who clanged the ringing steel and blew the smooth-handled bellows of tough
tanned hide, that wheezed and puffed as the fire roared up deep and red before sinking to the
right welding-heat in a little flame round the buckle-tache of the girdle brace they were working
on.

And as they hammered they talked together in alternate snatches and silences?--Sholto, the
elder, meanwhile keeping an eye on his father. For their converse was not meant to reach the
ear of the grave, strong man who sat so still in the wicker chair with the afternoon sun shining
in his face.

"Hark ye, Laurence," said Sholto, returning from a visit to the door of the smithy, the upper
part of which was open. "No longer will I be a hammerer of iron and a blower of fires for my
father. I am going to be a soldier of fortune, and so I will tell him--"

"When wilt thou tell him?" laughed his brother, tauntingly. "I wager my purple velvet doublet
slashed with gold which I bought with mine own money last Rood Fair that you will not go across
and tell him now. Will you take the dare?"

"The purple velvet--you mean it?" said Sholto, eagerly. "Mind, if you refuse, and will not
give it up after promising, I will nick that lying throat of yours with my gullie knife!"

And with that Sholto threw down his pincers and hammer, and valorously pushed open the lower
door of the smithy. He looked with bold, dark blue eye at his father, and strode slowly across
the grimy door-step. Brawny Kim had not moved for an hour. His great hands lay in his lap,
and his eyes looked at the purple ridges of Screel, across the beautiful loch of Carlinwark,
which sparkled and dimpled restlessly among its isles like a wilful beauty bridling under the
gaze of a score of gallants.

But, even as he went, Sholto's step slowed, and lost its braggart strut and confidence. Behind
him Laurence chuckled and laughed, smiting his thigh in his mocking glee.

"The purple velvet, mind you, Sholto! How well it will become you, coft from Rob Halliburton,
our mother's own brother, seamed with red gold and lined with yellow satin and cramosie. Well
indeed will it set you when Maud Lindesay, the maid who came from the north for company to
the Earl's sister, looks forth from the canopy upon you as you stand in the archers' rank on
the morrow's morn."

Sholto squared his shoulders, and with a little backward hitch of his elbow which meant "Wait
till I come back, and I will pay you for this flouting," he strode determinedly across the
green space towards his father.

The master armourer of Earl Douglas did not lift his eyes till his son had half crossed the
road. Then, even as if a rank of spearmen at the word of command had lifted their glittering
points to the "ready," Sholto MacKim stopped dead where he was, with a sort of gasp in his
throat, like one who finds his defenceless body breast high against the line of hostile steel. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and I will not change. So I fell in love,
so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio,
but not left to tie it graceful loop of the tie, or stroking her hair,
put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert.

Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll
hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the
same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the
tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

-
I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to
realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly
more than I see them through another prism. We like to see people,
but not repaired by us.

The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or
hope or even desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance
of others.

- You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in
marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would you be called and held for you, leaving
your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

-
I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be. No one would remember
of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love
again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me
sometimes the sweet light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say
that my love is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth linda could
not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña
Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish.

Do not test me now because you are old, but children are much more
than me.

Let us rejoice, and let's have fun serenémonos far as possible.

Let us apply to this case the proverb that says: "In the poor house
burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend. Well not so! It would be
wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to
smile and appear happy, and even excited Inesita his wife and to have
fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in groups, dances and small gatherings, others were turning by the circular
walk, at whose center is the kiosk of the orchestra. This touching,
with enough Masters, the final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting began to rotate through this competition.

Don Braulio soon noticed that although no one knew, was not the same
one that accompanied walk women as beautiful.

That was far from looking like a desert.

Often, especially when passing groups of men, reached the ears of
Don Braulio vague murmurs flattering, and occasional words and even
whole sentences of admiration and commendable.

In Spain, I will not get to moralize about it or to decide whether it is right or wrong, but men
without believing that offend, often woo the way to the ladies, in
particular when they are alone.

On this occasion, or not look at Don Braulio, or give little importance
to him, judge or distracted and not hear, and Ines Beatriz collected
good crop of compliments.

Both made the collection such as cold and impassive dignity, soon,
as if Word's out that these creatures did not ask for war, the compliments
ended, but not ended the open road as they passed them.

Also followed the buzz of excitement and sympathy.

They had already given three times our girls, when a group of young elegant spotted both at
the same time the Count of Alhedín. Inesita kept his composure Olympic Beatriz became very red.

-
Did you see the Condesito? - Told Inesita ear.

- Ay, ay, what are you wearing red!

Another new wave of blood red rose then the face of Dona Beatriz, who became more colorful.

-
You are like a poppy - Ines said.

The group who had seen the Count coming toward them from the front. The count was no doubt happen next.
Who knows if they speak?

Who knows if we will say a word bold, Don Braulio hear? Perhaps this suspicion was as red as Dona
Beatriz.

It was singular that the Count suddenly disappeared from the group, which, to meet our heroines,
was opened to let them pass, hearing both sides flattering and respectful
murmurs, similar to those of other people had already heard them.

Ines said the cloth to his sister:

- Where has slipped the Condesito?

- Who knows - Beatriz said.

- Well, sister, I can not tell with your eyes all that I recommended last night to tell him.

They
had not gone a long way after this short dialogue, when they saw a circle, where many people
were sitting, stood up and said a lady elegant, although somewhat
buxom.

There was thickened, and retained their thinness and much of its beauty, despite the years. Was
not galas, the place unfit for public, but all I was wearing was exquisite taste, rich without
being gaudy.

Instead of the blanket had hat. His face was funny. His complexion rosy, if somewhat brown.
On his face two beautiful spots, like two clumps of bamboo in a meadow flowers. His eyes, large and
fulmineo, flashed more thanks to the fence that was dark painted her eyelids. His waist was majestic
pair lightweight and flexible. In short, all the poise and appearance of this lady who was a
lionne denote a real salience of the court.

What was the astonishment of Agnes and Beatrice when they realized they had been smitten salience
them! A gentleman of twenty to thirty years, carrying a coat and with a little box followed
her like a lacayuelo.

Just got the lady stood before Beatrice looked at her tenderly, and exclaimed: "Dear mine! "threw
her arms around his neck and kissed her on both cheeks.

Beatrice stood for a moment looking for anyone who touched her. Recognizing at last he said: "Rosita,
'and he paid her kisses with others.

Perhaps the patient reader curious to know and remember the story
of Dr. Faustino has fallen into who was Rosita.

Rosita Gutierrez was the famous daughter of the clerk of Villabermeja, that makes such an important
role in that history. [*]

[*: See The Illusions of Doctor Faustino novel.]

Rosita seemed immortal, as preserved. Far from losing with age, could ensure I had won.

Little by little had been molding and adjusting for such art to the use of the most elegant Madrid,
which hardly anyone dared not call her the "Queen of kitsch," which was given that initially gave
him.

Her husband had business wise, and had also benefited more. Both spouses had become very aristocratic,
religious and conservative. Idolized Pius IX, had a title Roman. Condes de San Teódulo were. Had
been in devout pilgrimage to Lourdes and Rome and then had brought several relics of that holy,
which had been one of the six thousand martyrs of the Theban Legion, and by that, it was proven
with evidence that was natural of the greatest people in the district where Rosita's husband
used to go deputy.

With the relics brought by the pilgrims said the effigy of San Teódulo, and everything carried
the village, where there was an immense joy and celebrations boisterous. Nothing more natural,
after this, that Rosita and her husband were to become Condes de San Teódulo.

However, not content with being Condes them by Rome, were eager to
be Marquis in Castile and it had long sought with eagerness.

Meanwhile, complying with the saying of 'Child not have, and we name
it "had pondered a lot and played more the counts on name that was
to have the Marquis.

They agreed the two in which the name was to be the in some rural property they possessed, but,
unfortunately, the husband's farm Rosita was impossible. They called: The Biznaga, The Hinojal
and The Macuca. It was not safe with titles such ugly head. They resolved, therefore, that on
a farm titled Rosie called Camarena, and I dreamed of being Marquis de Camarena, settling soon
as San Teódulo County, Theban and Andalusian martyr at a time, which,
here is understood as understood, involves no contradiction.

Entitled Rosita, and more rich and prosperous than ever, develop in
his soul felt love more pure to the letters and the arts.

He called his rooms to artists and poets, and became a Lorenza as
a Patron of the Magnificent or female.

As for the former cursería, we said that no one dared hardly accuse her of this defect; defect,
moreover, so vague and undefinable, which is almost always the criterion
of People find him or not finding the others.

What does happen, usually, is that allegations are mutual. No subject is given only when he described
someone corny, do more than pay, it is uncertain whether he qualified for qualifying mouth
full of the same.

Is this because it is a quality cursería indeterminate and confusing? I think not, because I noticed
that it does the same with certain other qualities sick.

Whenever I've heard a woman talk about the amorous intrigues of the intricacies and tricks
of the others I've seen that she told the other a thousand times.

And on the lips of anyone with whom I have referred thousand horrors underhand behavior in public
employment, I have also heard diatribes stronger accusing the others
of the same peccadillo.

Pray for natural goodness, but not innate, but acquired with age and experience, now poohing
dull and blunt a weapon to force everyone to use, the Countess of
San Teódulo I had no bad language.

Oddly enough! He did not speak ill of his friends. Just spoke ill of his enemies declared and
bitter.

Then took great pains and took great joke. Occasionally, although the spoken prose was exquisite,
I used to appeal to the verse, and sent to his favorite poet to write doggerel against the
person who wanted her to ridicule.

Time away was the friendship of General Perez, the Countess was not
involved in politics; not lecturing on strategy, and castrametación
Poliorcetes.

Now devoted all their ingenuity the muses. And, since his trip to Rome, where he had been three
weeks, had acquired profound concepts in drawing, painting and visual arts, and had become an archaeologist
more than reasonable.

Such, in brief, was the friend who, unexpectedly, were found in the Gardens Inesita and Beatrice.

Rosita,
eight years ago, had been on the show the people of both, not far from town her, and was hosted
at the home of Mr. Cure, a friend of his father.

But why not it had been forgotten those women who were girls when
they met them, and should have changed enough?

What came to them with such simplicity and goodness? Why is the had, as they are led, in running,
sitting by his side?

Don Braulio all this was as stunned or more stunned than us. The difference is we will know
the cause in the next chapter and will don the dark Braulio and thinking.

IX

All presentations will be made with due ceremonies, according to the
liturgy of society elegant.

Doña Beatriz introduced her husband to the Countess and Countess presented to the Knights
that formed the circle, first and then Beatriz Ines and Don Braulio.

This Luckily, the three were thrown into the great world in a jiffy, in a blink of an eye.

He was not there the Count of San Teódulo there was not more lady
the Countess.

In this, as nearly all ladies of high stem and supreme elegance,
did not like dealing with women but in rare cases.

So much more to thank and to estimate, therefore, the rare exception
I had done and Ines Beatriz.

All seated on the floor again, the favorite poet of the Countess,
who call Arthur gave Inesita conversation without also would stop
talking to her other suitors.

Don Braulio, although shocked and suspicious and start to become famous by his wife, spoke to
more serious and Machucha gentlemen.

Doña Beatriz and the Countess of San Teódulo spoke at length with each other and whispered, remembering
their old friendship.

A few minutes later the Countess of Dona Beatriz had demanded the re-apear treatment the re-tutear
as she remembered that back in the village had familiarly.

Why refuse to so great kindness? The two friends tutearon in effect. And remember the reader
hearty villager was Rosita. Condesa was the same with those who deserved it.

- I can not understand - said Beatriz - how could you know so many
people and then so many years.

- My daughter - answered the Countess
-, I will have limited understanding, but I have lots of memory and,
above all, lots of good will to those whom I cherish.

We have recognized hundred thousand people without history, without being prevented, without
notice to you were you among them.

Also, what merit is there in me? Who sees you when you can not forget.

- Thank you, thank you confuse me with your praise indulgent and generous.

- I speak the truth. And then you have not changed in the face.

Your body is another, you've unwrapped, embarnecido you have something, you made a beautiful woman.
Praxiteles would you have taken as a model. These garments are no doubt others of you today.
When we tried in the place you were a child. I saw fresh and tender then the bud, now I see the
rose, which has made all the luxury its lush aromatic corolla. But I repeat, face, expression,
looking ... nothing this has changed.

When you talk you look like a married woman ... but quietly ... look
a girl, more candid ... more innocent than your sister, who is also
very cute.

- Anyway ... is unique ... no history ... not knowing
I was in Madrid ...

- No, it does not.

I do not like to brag about what I should not. I have recently learned that were in Madrid.
If I had known before I had gone to see your home.

- Who knows me? Who could tell you about me? My husband is a poor employee ...

- Will you say, but his intelligence and diligence are delighted the Minister and full of envy
to all staff of the Secretariat. The Minister did not do more than talk your husband. And what's
with you, but you live so withdrawn, speak and many since, few nights have you seen in these gardens.

-
It is possible, women! Want to make fun of me?

- Tired know you do not mock me.

- Do not laugh because you're good, but you want to tease me. It is true that I came here a few
nights have, but nobody knew me.

- Then I knew and admired you. Someone who is proudly weary of discontented, difficult, was so enchanted
that I followed.

Doña Beatriz blushed again.

- How do you know? - Said.

- The told me.

- Who?

- Do you want to regale the ear?

The Count of Alhedín, elegant flower, the most handsome of our chickens.

-
It would be my sister.

- That I have not said word count.

It has simply say that I followed, and made me the most brilliant
of you praise.

Ensure you have never seen two women more beautiful and aristocratic in nature. Before coming
to me was the Count took reports, and I I do not know how the hell had written that, despite
your precipitate flight in a stingy, I already knew how you called, where you lived, who you
were, who was your husband, and a thousand other things. It is clear that to tell me I realized
that you were the girls that had so I wanted in place, and entered into a desire to see you
again. If I tell you frankly, I've only been here tonight to see
if I was.

I have people at home: a circle of friends. There I ahead, and my husband is with them. Anyway,
thank God that I have found. Well supposed I you had to come because it is Sunday night, when
your husband does not have chores.

The other night was crazy what they did, believing that nobody would notice. Come alone ... two
girls ... exposing the persecution of any uneducated fool! ... Not all are the cream of courtesy.
Not all are like the Count of Alhedín, which can distinguish to escape
who has to deal with.

- You are right - said Beatriz -, was a blunder,
it was unwise to what we did the other night.

Do not do it again.

- From here on out would be impossible. I desentonaríais. Already by this time I know all of Madrid;
that is, society. You must come, or with your husband ... or me.

I bring in my car if Gardens amuse you.

My poet and some other escort us. It is necessary to put on airs. No is a matter of coming
here two girls and two adventurous.

- Much I have to thank - said Beatriz.

- No, my child, do not thank
me anything. I do it for selfishness. Here among us, vanity I'm not
blind, I still and cotorrona. I have no love, or jealousy, or aspire
to nothing, and I need friendship and company of young women like
you. My house is a casino, of which I am president with skirts, but
I'm tired of doing this role. Want to share with me? Will you help
me to chair my gathering?

- I do not know if Braulio willing and
able ...

- How not to love? It seems affable, cheerful, good sir,
and discreet. And recognize that their Women should not always be
stuck at home. When married with a child like you would by all this.
No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said -
but Braulio has compelling reasons. Why I feel ashamed to say to you?
We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes?
In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less
luxurious yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll
see how you get distracted there at night. Your sister will be distracted
too, because they provided chickens home their age and will know more
when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable
to accompany you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons,
because it would suspect he was a zealous suspicious, which would
be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that was a man
incapable bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even
when your husband was often at my house, I am certain that, far from
weigh is happy. There are quite a few subjects of their position.
Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science,
everything, looking so much to say that you know ... and until the
present, that is in peace and without getting angry, it has not helped.
You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and
do not want more.

- That is a virtue ... but sterile. When no goal
is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my husband ... And
I'll introduce you ... Not worth the twentieth part of your Don Braulio.
And yet ... how do you know wits! ... It is a gyrfalcon ... I speak
to you from the heart in hand. It is necessary that we remove your
husband of limbo in which they live. It has elements ... Why not to
use them? To a philosopher, contempt of the world and its vain pomp,
would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved
her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out! Who does not instill
love? You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too
...

- So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great
talent seduced you: two reasons to use it in making you happy, so
that vague musings stop and see what matters. I do not know what a
writer has compared acute speculative philosopher with a mule that
turns a wheel, attached to it by the devil metaphysics, drawing water
not drinking and not eating the abundant grass and fresh vegetable
that everywhere around you. Well, even worse when the philosopher
or the mule, following the mischievous comparison, has a partner and
rope leads, not left to graze either.

- My duty and my taste is to
follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me to a barren desert
as a land of promise. For that, I do not think that is so deep in
futile dreams, that ignores the reality of life.

- Best case. I'm
glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband. It has good
looks. Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that should be reformed
is the hat and the peaks the collar. Are enormous. Why not make the
cut that a bit?

- It's a whim. Insists on taking them well, but not
stubborn in matters of importance.

- So ... good will. With picks
and all seems well ... very curiosito ... very neat ... Even the huge
enormity of the peaks seems to me as it gives some original character
and severe. But, sir, where do you have hidden the Count?

- What
Count? - Asked Beatrice.

- Your most ardent admirer. Just saw you
came to tell me that you had arrived. Singular is the fear that you
have. It is absurd in a man so fluent and so bold. Nothing ... I'm
ashamed to present to you, he has escaped. Is delaying what you want
most ... Thank God! Is already there.

The lady clapped her hands and laughed, letting her palfrey pace onwards through the woodland
glades bridle free, while Black Darnaway, compelled by his master's hand, followed, tossing
his head indignantly because it had been turned from the direction of his nightly stable on
the Castle Isle.

CHAPTER III

TWO RIDING TOGETHER

"Joyous," she cried, as they went, "Oh, most joyous would it be to see the noble castle and
to have all the famous two thousand knights to make love to me at once! To capture two thousand
hearts at one sweep of the net! What would Margaret of France herself say to that?"

"Is there no single heart sufficient to satisfy you, fair maid?" said the young man, in a low
voice; "none loyal enough nor large enough for you that you desire so many?"

"And what would I do with one if it were in my hands," she said wistfully; "that is, if it
were a worthy heart and one worth the taking. Ever since I was a child I have always broken
my toys when I tired of them."

The voices of the singing children on the green came more faintly to their ears, but the words
were still clear to be understood.

    "Off to prison you must go, you must go, you must go,
                   Off to prison you must go,
                                       My fair lady!"

"You hear? It is my fate!" she said.

"Nay," answered the Earl, passionately, still looking in her eyes. "Mine, mine--not yours!
Gladly I would go to prison or to death for the love of one so fair!"

"My lord, my lord," she laughed, with a tolerant protest in her voice, "you keep up the credit
of your house right nobly. How goes the distich? My mother taught it me upon the bridge of
Avignon, where also as here in Scotland the children dance and sing."

    "First in the love of Woman,
      First in the field of fight,
     First in the death that men must die,
      Such is the Douglas' right!"

"Here and now," he said, still looking at her, "'tis only the first I crave."

"Earl William, positively you must come to Court!" she shrilled into sudden tinkling laughter;
"there be ladies there more worthy of your ardour than a poor errant maiden such as I."

"A Court," cried Earl William, scornfully, "to the Seneschal's court! Nay, truly. Could a Stewart
ever keep his faith or pay his debts? Never, since the first of them licked his way into a
lady's favour."

"Oh," she answered lightly, "I meant not the Court of Stirling nor yet the Chancellor's Castle
of Edinburgh. I meant the only great Court--the Court of France, the Court of Charles the Seventh,
the Court which already owns the sway of its rarest ornament, your own Scottish Princess Margaret."

"Thither I cannot go unless the King of France grants me my father's rights and estates!" he
said, with a certain sternness in his tone.

"Let me look at your hand," she answered, with a gentle inclination of her fair head, from
which the lace that had shrouded it now streamed back in the cool wind of evening.

Stopping Darnaway, the young Earl gave the girl his hand, and the white palfrey came to rest
close beneath the shoulder of the black war charger.

"To-morrow," she said, looking at his palm, "to-morrow you will be Duke of Touraine. I promise
it to you by my power of divination. Does that satisfy you?"

"I fear you are a witch, or else a being compound of rarer elements than mere flesh and blood,"
said the Earl.

"Is that a spirit's hand," she said, laughing lightly and giving her own rosy fingers into
his, "or could even the Justicer of Galloway find it in his heart to burn these as part of
the body of a witch?"

She shuddered and pretended to gaze piteously up at him from under the long lashes which hardly
raised themselves from her cheek.

"Spirit-slender, spirit-white they are," he replied, "and as for being the fingers of a witch--doubtless
you are a witch indeed. But I will not burn so fair things as these, save as it might be with
the fervours of my lips."

And he stooped and pressed kiss after kiss upon her hand.

Gently she withdrew her fingers from his grasp and rode further apart, yet not without one
backward glance of perfectest witchery.

"I doubt you have been overmuch at Court already," she said. "I did not well to ask you to
go thither."

"Why must I not go thither?" he asked.

"Because I shall be there," she replied softly, courting him yet again with her eyes.

As they rode on together through the rich twilight dusk, the young man observed her narrowly
as often as he could.

Her skin was fair with a dazzling clearness, which even the gathering gloom only caused to
shine with a more perfect brilliance, as if a halo of light dwelt permanently beneath its surface.
Faint responsive roses bloomed on either cheek and, as it seemed, cast a shadow of their colour
down her graceful neck. Dark eyes shone above, fresh and dewy with love and youth, and smiled
out with all ancientest witcheries and allurements in their depths. Her lithe, slender body
was simply clad in a fair white cloth of some foreign fabric, and her waist, of perfectest
symmetry, was cinctured by a broad ring of solid silver, which, to the young man, looked so
slender that he could have clasped it about with both his hands.

So they rode on, through the woods mostly, until they reached a region which to the Earl appeared
unfamiliar. The glades were greener and denser. The trees seemed more primeval, the foliage
thicker overhead, the interspaces of the golden evening sky darker and less frequent.

"In what place may your company be assembled?" he asked. "Strange it is that I know not this
spot. Yet I should recognise each tree by conning it, and of every rivulet in Galloway I should
be able to tell the name. Yet with shame do I confess that I know not where I am."

"Ah," said the girl, her face growing luminous through the gloom, "you called me a witch, and
now you shall see. I wave my hands, so--and you are no more in Galloway. You are in the land
of faëry. I blow you a kiss, so--and lo! you are no more William, sixth Earl of Douglas and
proximate Duke of Touraine, but you are even as True Thomas, the Beloved of the Queen of the
Fairies, and the slave of her spell!"

"I am indeed well content to be Thomas Rhymer," he answered, submitting himself to the wooing
glamour of her eyes, "so be that you are the Lady of the milk-white hind!"

"A courtier indeed," she laughed; "you need not to seek your answer. You make a poor girl afraid.
But see, yonder are the lights of my pavilion. Will it please you to alight and enter? The
supper will be spread, and though you must not expect any to entertain you, save only this
your poor Queen Mab" (here she made him a little bow), "yet I think you will not be ill content.
They do not say that Thomas of Ercildoune had any cause for complaint. Do you know," she continued,
a fresh gaiety striking into her voice, "it was in this very wood that he was lost."

But William Douglas sat silent with the wonder of what he saw. Their horses had all at once
come out on a hilltop. The sequestered boskage of the trees had gradually thinned, finally
dwarfing into a green drift of fern and birchen foliage which rose no higher than Black Darnaway's
chest, and through which his rider's laced boots brushed till the Spanish leather of their
gold-embossed frontlets was all jetted with gouts of dew.

Before him swept horizonwards a great upward drift of solemn pine trees, the like of which
for size he had never seen in all his domain. Or so, at least, it seemed in that hour of mystery
and glamour. For behind them the evening sky had dulled to a deep and solemn wash of blood
red, across which lay one lonely bar of black cloud, solid as spilled ink on a monkish page.
But under the trees themselves, blazing with lamps and breathing odours of all grace and daintiness,
stood a lighted pavilion of rose-coloured silk, anchored to the ground with ropes of sendal
of the richest crimson hue.

"Let your horse go free, or tether him to a pine; in either case he will not wander far," said
the girl. "I fear my fellows have gone off to lay in provisions. We have taken a day or two
more on the way than we had counted on, so that to-night's feast makes an end of our store.
But still there is enough for two. I bid you welcome, Earl William, to a wanderer's tent. There
is much that I would say to you."

CHAPTER IV

THE ROSE-RED PAVILION

As the young Earl paused a moment without to tether Black Darnaway to a fallen trunk of a pine,
a chill and melancholy wind seemed to rise suddenly and toss the branches dark against the
sky. Then it flew off moaning like a lost spirit, till he could hear the sound of its passage
far down the valley. An owl hooted and a swart raven disengaged himself from the coppice about
the door of the pavilion, and fluttered away with a croak of disdainful anger. Black Darnaway
turned his head and whinnied anxiously after his master.

But William Douglas, though little more than a boy if men's ages are to be counted by years,
was yet a true child of Archibald the Grim, and he passed through the mysterious encampment
to the door of the lighted pavilion with a carriage at once firm and assured. He could faintly
discern other tents and pavilions set further off, with pennons and bannerets, which the passing
gust had blown flapping from the poles, but which now hung slackly about their staves.

"I would give a hundred golden St. Andrews," he muttered, "if I could make out the scutcheon.
It looks most like a black dragon couchant on a red field, which is not a Scottish bearing.
The lady is French, doubtless, and passes through from Ireland to visit the Chancellor's Court
at Edinburgh."

The Black Douglas paused a moment at the tent-flap, which, being of silken fabric lined with
heavier material, hung straight and heavy to the ground.

"Come in, my lord," cried the low and thrilling voice of his companion from within. "With both
hands I bid you welcome to my poor abode. A traveller must not be particular, and I have only
those condiments with me which my men have brought from shipboard, knowing how poor was the
provision of your land. See, do you not already repent your promise to sup with me?"

She pointed to the table on which sparkled cut glass of Venice and rich wreathed ware of goldsmiths'
work. On these were set out oranges and rare fruits of the Orient, such as the young man had
never seen in his own bleak and barren land.

But the Douglas did no more than glance at the luxury of the providing. A vision fairer and
more beautiful claimed his eyes. For even as he paused in amazement, the lady herself stood
before him, transformed and, as it seemed, glorified. In the interval she had taken off the
cloak which, while on horseback, she had worn falling from her shoulders. A thin robe of white
silk broidered with gold at once clothed and revealed her graceful and gracious figure, even
as a glove covers but does not conceal the hand upon which it is drawn. Whether by intent or
accident, the collar had been permitted to fall aside at the neck and showed the dazzling whiteness
of the skin beneath, but at the bosom it was secured by a button set with black pearls which
constituted the lady's only ornament.

Her arms also were bare, and showed in the lamplight whiter than milk. She had removed the
silver belt, and was tying a red silken scarf about her waist in a manner which revealed a
swift grace and lithe sinuosity of movement, making her beauty appear yet more wonderful and
more desirable to the young man's eyes.

On either side the pavilion were placed folding couches of rosy silk, and in the corner, draped
with rich blue hangings, glimmered the lady's bed, its fair white linen half revealed. Two
embroidered pillows were at the foot, and on a little table beside it a crystal ball on a black
platter.

No crucifix or prie-dieu, such as in those days was in every lady's bower, could be discerned
anywhere about the pavilion.

So soon as the tent-flap had fallen with a soft rustle behind him, the Earl William abandoned
himself to the strange enchantment of his surroundings. He did not stop to ask himself how
it was possible that such dainty providings had been brought into the midst of his wide, wild
realm of Galloway. Nor yet why this errant damsel should in the darksome night-time find herself
alone on this hilltop with the tents of her retinue standing empty and silent about. The present
sufficed him. The soft radiance of dark eyes fell upon him, and all the quick-running, inconsiderate
Douglas blood rushed and sang in his veins, responsive to that subtle shining.

He was with a fair woman, and she not unwilling to be kind. That was ever enough for all the
race of the Black Douglas. What the Red Douglas loved is another matter. Their ambitions were
more reputable, but greatly less generous.

"My lord," said the lady, giving him her hand, "will you lead me to the table? I cannot offer
you the refreshment of any elaborate toilet, but here, at least, is wheaten bread to eat and
wine of a good vintage to drink."

"You yourself scarce need such earthly sustenance," he answered gallantly, "for your eyes have
stolen the radiance of the stars, and 'tis evident that the night dews visit your cheek only
as they do the roses--to render them more fresh and fair."

"My lord flatters well for one so young;" she smiled as she seated herself and motioned him
to sit close beside her. "How comes it that in this wild place you have learned to speak so
chivalrously?"

"When one answers beauty the words are somehow given," he said, "and, moreover, I have not
dwelt in grey Galloway all my days."

"You speak French?" she queried in that tongue.

"Ah," she said when he answered, "the divine language. I knew you were perfect." And so for
a long while the young man sat spellbound, watching the smiles coming and going upon her red
and flower-like lips, and listening to the fast-running ripple of her foreign talk. It was
pleasure enough to hearken without reply.

It seemed no common food of mortal men that was set before William Douglas, served with the
sweep of white arms and the bend of delicate fingers upon the chalice stem. He did not care
to eat, but again and again he set the wine cup down empty, for the vintage was new to him,
and brought with it a haunting aroma, instinct with strange hopes and vivid with unknown joys.

The pavilion, with its cords of sendal and its silver hanging lamps, spun round about him.
The fair woman herself seemed to dissolve and reunite before his eyes. She had let down the
full-fed river of her hair, and it flowed in the Venetian fashion over her white shoulders,
sparkling with an inner fire--each fine silken thread, as it glittered separate from its fellows,
twining like a golden snake.

And the ripple of her laughter played upon the young man's heart carelessly as a lute is touched
by the hands of its mistress. Something of the primitive glamour of the night and the stars
clung to this woman. It seemed a thing impossible that she should be less pure than the air
and the waters, than the dewy grass beneath and the sky cool overhead. He knew not that the
devil sat from the first day of creation on Eden wall, that human sin is all but as eternal
as human good, and that passion rises out of its own ashes like the phoenix bird of fable and
stands again all beautiful before us, a creature of fire and dew.

Presently the lady rose to her feet, and gave the Earl her hand to lead her to a couch.

"Set a footstool by me," she bade him, "I desire to talk to you."

"You know not my name," she said, after a pause that was like a caress, "though I know yours.
But then the sun in mid-heaven cannot be hidden, though nameless bide the thousand stars. Shall
I tell you mine? It is a secret; nevertheless, I will tell you if such be your desire."

"I care not whether you tell me or no," he answered, looking up into her face from the low
seat at her feet. "Birth cannot add to your beauty, nor sparse quarterings detract from your
charm. I have enough of both, good lack! And little good they are like to do me."

"Shall I tell you now," she went on, "or will you wait till you convoy me to Edinburgh?"

"To Edinburgh!" cried the young man, greatly astonished. "I have no purpose of journeying to
that town of mine enemies. I have been counselled oft by those who love me to remain in mine
own country. My horoscope bids me refrain. Not for a thousand commands of King or Chancellor
will I go to that dark and bloody town, wherein they say lies waiting the curse of my house."

"But you will go to please a woman?" she said, and leaned nearer to him, looking deep into
his eyes.

For a moment William Douglas wavered. For a moment he resisted. But the dark, steadfast orbs
thrilled him to the soul, and his own heart rose insurgent against his reason.

"I will come if you ask me," he said. "You are more beautiful than I had dreamed any woman
could be."

"I do ask you!" she continued, without removing her eyes from his face.

"Then I will surely come!" he replied.

She set her hand beneath his chin and bent smilingly and lightly to kiss him, but with an imprisoned
passionate cry the young man suddenly clasped her in his arms. Yet even as he did so, his eyes
fell upon two figures, which, silent and motionless, stood by the open door of the pavilion.

CHAPTER V

THE WITCH WOMAN

One of these was Malise the Smith, towering like a giant. His hands rested on the hilt of a
mighty sword, whose blade sparkled in the lamplight as if the master armourer had drawn it
that moment from the midst of his charcoal fire.

A little in front of Malise there stood another figure, less imposing in physical proportions,
but infinitely more striking in dignity and apparel. This second was a man of tall and spare
frame, of a countenance grave and severe, yet with a certain kindly power latent in him also.
He was dressed in the white robe of a Cistercian, with the black scapulary of the order. On
his head was the mitre, and in his hand the staff of the abbot of a great establishment which
he wears when he goes visiting his subsidiary houses. More remarkable than all was the monk's
likeness to the young man who now stood before him with an expression of indignant surprise
on his face, which slowly merged into anger as he understood why these two men were there.

He recognised his uncle the Abbot William Douglas, the head of the great Abbey of Dulce Cor
upon Solway side.

This was he who, being the son and heir of the brother of the first Duke of Touraine, had in
the flower of his age suddenly renounced his domains of Nithsdale that he might take holy orders,
and who had ever since been renowned throughout all Scotland for high sanctity and a multitude
of good works.

The pair stood looking towards the lady and William Douglas without speech, a kind of grim
patience upon their faces.

It was the Earl who was the first to speak.

"What seek you here so late, my lord Abbot?" he said, with all the haughtiness of the unquestioned
head of his mighty house.

"Nay, what seeks the Earl William here alone so late?" answered the Abbot, with equal directness.

The two men stood fronting each other. Malise leaned upon his two-handed sword and gazed upon
the ground.

"I have come," the Abbot went on, after vainly waiting for the young Earl to offer an explanation,
"as your kinsman, tutor, and councillor, to warn you against this foreign witch woman. What
seeks she here in this land of Galloway but to do you hurt? Have we not heard her with our
own ears persuade you to accompany her to Edinburgh, which is a city filled with the power
and deadly intent of your enemies?"

Earl William bowed ironically to his uncle, and his eye glittered as it fell upon Malise MacKim.

"I thank you, Uncle," he said. "I am deeply indebted for your so great interest in me. I thank
you too, Malise, for bringing about this timely interference. I will pay my debts one day.
In the meantime your duty is done. Depart, both of you, I command you!"

Outside the thunder began to growl in the distance. An extraordinary feeling of oppression
had slowly filled the air. The lamps, swinging on the pavilion roof tree, flickered and flared,
alternately rising and sinking like the life in the eyes of a dying man.

All the while the lady sat still on the couch, with an expression of amused contempt on her
face. But now she rose to her feet.

"And I also ask, in the name of the King of France, by what right do you intrude within the
precincts of a lady's bower. I bid you to leave me!"

She pointed imperiously with her white finger to the black, oblong doorway, from which Malise's
rude hand had dragged the covering flap to the ground.

But the churchman and his guide stood their ground.

Suddenly the Abbot reached a hand and took the sword on which the master armourer leaned. With
its point he drew a wide circle upon the rich carpets which formed the floor of the pavilion.

"William Douglas," he said, "I command you to come within this circle, whilst in the right
of my holy office I exorcise that demon there who hath so nearly beguiled you to your ruin."

The lady laughed a rich ringing laugh.

"These are indeed high heroics for so plain and poor an occasion. I need not to utter a word
of explanation. I am a lady travelling peaceably under escort of an ambassador of France, through
a Christian country. By chance, I met the Earl Douglas, and invited him to sup with me. What
concern, spiritual or temporal, may that be of yours, most reverend Abbot? Who made you my
lord Earl's keeper?"

"Woman or demon from the pit!" said the Abbot, sternly, "think not to deceive William Douglas,
the aged, as you have cast the glamour over William Douglas, the boy. The lust of the flesh
abideth no more for ever in this frail tabernacle. I bid thee, let the lad go, for he is dear
to me as mine own soul. Let him go, I say, ere I curse thee with the curse of God the Almighty!"

The lady continued to smile, standing meantime slender and fair before them, her bosom heaving
a little with emotion, and her hair rippling in red gold confusion down her back.

"Certainly, my lord Earl came not upon compulsion. He is free to return with you, if he yet
be under tutors and governors, or afraid of the master's stripes. Go, Earl William, I made
a mistake; I thought you had been a man. But since I was wrong I bid you get back to the monk's
chapter house, to clerkly copies and childish toys."

Then black and sullen anger glared from the eyes of the Douglas.

"Get hence," he cried. "Hence, both of you--you, Uncle William, ere I forget your holy office
and your kinsmanship; you, Malise, that I may settle with to-morrow ere the sun sets. I swear
it by my word as a Douglas. I will never forgive either of you for this night's work!"

The fair white hand was laid upon his wrist.

"Nay," said the lady, "do not quarrel with those you love for my poor sake. I am indeed little
worth the trouble. Go back with them in peace, and forget her who but sat by your side an hour
neither doing you harm nor thinking it."

"Nay," he cried, "that will I not. I will show them that I am old enough to choose my company
for myself. Who is my uncle that he should dictate to me that am an earl of Douglas and a peer
of France, or my servant that he should come forth to spy upon his master?"

"Then," she whispered, smiling, "you will indeed abide with me?"

He gave her his hand.

"I will abide with you till death! Body and soul, I am yours alone!"

"By the holy cross of our Lord, that shall you not!" cried Malise; "not though you hang me
high as Haman for this ere the morrow's morn!"

And with these words he sprang forward and caught his master by the wrist. With one strong
pull of his mighty arm he dragged him within the circle which the Abbot had marked out with
the sword's point.

The lady seemed to change colour. For at that moment a gust of wind caused the lamps to flicker,
and the outlines of her white-robed figure appeared to waver like an image cast in water.

"I adjure and command you, in the name of God the One and Omnipotent, to depart to your own
place, spirit or devil or whatever you may be!"

The voice of the Abbot rose high above the roaring of the bursting storm without. The lady
seemed to reach an arm across the circle as if even yet to take hold of the young man. The
Abbot thrust forward his crucifix.

And then the bolt of God fell. The whole pavilion was illuminated with a flash of light so
intense and white that it appeared to blind and burn up all about. The lady was seen no more.
The silken covering blazed up. Malise plunged outward into the darkness of the storm, carrying
his young master lightly as a child in his arms, while the Abbot kept his feet behind him like
a boat in a ship's wake. The thunder roared overhead like the sea bellowing in a cave's mouth,
and the great pines bent their heads away from the mighty wind, straining and creaking and
lashing each other in their blind fury.

Malise and the Abbot seemed to hear about them the plunging of riderless horses as they stumbled
downwards through the night, their path lit by lightning flashes, green and lilac and keenest
blue, and bearing between them the senseless form of William Earl of Douglas.

CHAPTER VI

THE PRISONING OF MALISE THE SMITH

[Now these things, material to the life and history of William, sixth Earl of Douglas, are
not written from hearsay, but were chronicled within his lifetime by one who saw them and had
part therein, though the part was but a boy's one. His manuscript has come down to us and lies
before the transcriber. Sholto MacKim, the son of Malise the Smith, testifies to these things
in his own clerkly script. He adds particularly that his brother Laurence, being at the time
but a boy, had little knowledge of many of the actual facts, and is not to be believed if at
any time he should controvert anything which he (Sholto) has written. So far, however, as the
present collector and editor can find out, Laurence MacKim appears to have been entirely silent
on the subject, at least with his pen, so that his brother's caveat was superfluous.]

       *       *       *       *       *

The instant Lord William entered his own castle of Thrieve over the drawbridge, and without
even returning the salutations of his guard, he turned about to the two men who had so masterfully
compelled his return.

"Ho, guard, there!" he cried, "seize me this instant the Abbot of the New Abbey and Malise MacKim."

And so much surprised but wholly obedient, twenty archers of the Earl's guard, commanded by
old John of Abernethy, called Landless Jock, fell in at back and front.

Malise, the master armourer, stood silent, taking the matter with his usual phlegm, but the
Abbot was voluble.

"William," he said, holding out his hands with an appealing gesture, "I have laboured with
you, striven with, prayed for you. To-night I came forth through the storm, though an old man,
to deliver you from the manifest snares of the devil--"

But the Earl interrupted his recital without compunction.

"Set Malise MacKim in the inner dungeon," he cried. "Thrust his feet into the great stocks,
and let my lord Abbot be warded safely in the castle chapel. He is little likely to be disturbed
there at his devotions."

"Aye, my lord, it shall be done!" said Landless Jock, shaking his head, however, with gloomy
foreboding, as the haughty young Earl in his wet and torn disarray flashed past him without
further notice of the two men whom the might of his bare word had committed to prison. The
Earl sprang up the narrow turret stairs, passing as he did so through the vaulted hall of the
men-at-arms, where more than a hundred stout archers and spearmen sat carousing and singing,
even at that advanced hour of the night, while as many more lay about the corridors or on the
wooden shelves which they used for sleeping upon, and which folded back against the wall during
the day. At the first glimpse of their young master, every man left awake among them struggled
to his feet, and stood stiffly propped, drunk or sober according to his condition, with his
eyes turned towards the door which gave upon the turnpike stair. But with a slight wave of
his hand the Earl passed on to his own apartment.

Here he found his faithful body-servant, René le Blesois, stretched across the threshold. The
staunch Frenchman rose mechanically at the noise of his master's footsteps, and, though still
soundly asleep, stood with the latch of the door in his hand, and the other held stiffly to
his brow in salutation.

Left to his own devices, Lord William Douglas would doubtless have cast himself, wet as he
was, upon his bed had not Le Blesois, observing his lord's plight even in his own sleep-dulled
condition, entered the chamber after his master and, without question or speech, silently begun
to relieve him of his wet hunting dress. A loose chamber gown of rich red cloth, lined with
silk and furred with "cristy" grey, hung over the back of an oaken chair, and into this the
young Earl flung himself in black and sullen anger.

Le Blesois, still without a word spoken, left the room with the wet clothes over his arm. As
he did so a small object rolled from some fold or crevice of the doublet, where it had been
safely lodged till displaced by the loosening of the belt, or the removing of the banderole
of his master's hunting horn.

Le Blesois turned at the tinkling sound, and would have stopped to lift it up after the manner
of a careful servitor. But the eye of his lord was upon the fallen object, and with an abrupt
wave of his hand towards the door, and the single word "Go!" the Earl dismissed his body-servant
from the room.

Then rising hastily from his chair, he took the trinket in his hand and carried it to the well-trimmed
lamp which stood in a niche that held a golden crucifix.

The Lord Douglas saw lying in his palm a ring of singular design. The main portion was formed
of the twisting bodies of a pair of snakes, the jewel work being very cunningly interlaced
and perfectly finished. Their eyes were set with rubies, and between their open mouths they
carried an opal, shaped like a heart. The stone was translucent and faintly luminous like a
moonstone, but held in its heart one fleck of ruby red, in appearance like a drop of blood.
By some curious trick of light, in whatever position the ring was held, this drop still appeared
to be on the point of detaching itself and falling to the ground.

Earl William examined it in the flicker of the lamp. He turned it every way, narrowly searching
inside the golden band for a posy, but not a word of any language could he find engraved upon it.

"I saw the ring upon her hand--I am certain I saw it on her hand!" He said these words over
and over to himself. "It is then no dream that I have dreamed."

There came a low knocking at the door, a rustling and a whispering without. Instantly the Earl
thrust the ring upon his own finger with the opal turned inward, and, with the dark anger mark
of his race strongly dinted upon his fair young brow, he faced the unseen intruder.

"Who is there?" he cried loudly and imperiously.

The door opened with a rasping of the iron latch, and a little girlish figure clothed from
head to foot in a white night veil danced in. She clapped her hands at sight of him.

"You are come back," she cried; "and you have so fine a gown on too. But Maud Lindesay says
it is very wrong to be out of doors so late, even if you are Earl of Douglas, and a great man
now. Will you never play at 'Catch-as-catch-can' with David and me any more?"

"Margaret," said the young Earl, "what do you away from your chamber at all? Our mother will
miss you, and I do not want her here to-night. Go back at once!"

But the little wilful maiden, catching her skirts in her hands at either side and raising them
a little way from the ground, began to dance a dainty pas seul, ending with a flashing whirl
and a low bow in the direction of her audience.

At this William Douglas could not choose but smile, and soon threw himself down on the bed,
setting his clasped hands behind his head, and contenting himself with looking at his little
sister.

Though at this time but eight years of age, Margaret of Douglas was possessed of such extraordinary
vitality and character that she seemed more like eleven. She had the clear-cut, handsome Douglas
face, the pale olive skin, the flashing dark eyes, and the crisp, blue-black hair of her brother.
A lithe grace and quickness, like those of a beautiful wild animal, were characteristic of
every movement.

"Our mother hath been anxious about you, brother mine," said the little girl, tiring suddenly
of her dance, and leaping upon the other end of the couch on which her brother was reclining.
Establishing herself opposite him, she pulled the coverlet up about her so that presently only
her face could be seen peeping out from under the silken folds.

"Oh, I was so cold, but I am warmer now," she cried. "And if Maid Betsy A'hannay comes to take
me away, I want you to stretch out your hand like this, and say: 'Seneschal, remove that besom
to the deep dungeon beneath the castle moat,' as we used to do in our plays before you became
a great man. Then I could stay very long and talk to you all through the night, for Maud Lindesay
sleeps so sound that nothing can awake her."

Gradually the anger passed out of the face of William Douglas as he listened to his sister's
prattle, like the vapours from the surface of a hill tarn when the sun rises in his strength.
He even thought with some self-reproach of his treatment of Malise and of his uncle the Abbot.
But a glance at the ring on his finger, and the thought of what might have been his good fortune
at that moment but for their interference, again hardened his resolution to adamant within
his breast.

His sister's voice, clear and high in its childish treble, recalled him to himself.

"Oh, William, and there is such news; I forgot, because I have been so overbusied with arranging
my new puppet's house that Malise made for me. But scarcely were you gone away on Black Darnaway
ere a messenger came from our granduncle James at Avondale that he and my cousins Will and
James arrive to-morrow at the Thrieve with a company to attend the wappenshaw."

The young man sprang to his feet, and dashed one hand into the palm of the other.

"This is ill tidings indeed!" he cried. "What does the Fat Flatterer at Castle Thrieve? If
he comes to pay homage, it will be but a mockery. Neither he nor Angus had ever any good-will
to my father, and they have none to me."

"Ah, do not be angry, William," cried the little maid. "It will be beautiful. They will come
at a fitting time. For to-morrow is the great levy of the weapon-showing, and our cousins will
see you in your pride. And they will see me, too, in my best green sarcenet, riding on a white
palfrey at your side as you promised."

"A weapon-showing is not a place for little girls," said the Earl, mollified in spite of himself,
casting himself down again on the couch, and playing with the serpent ring on his finger.

"Ah, now," cried his sister, her quick eyes dancing everywhere at once, "you are not attending
to a single word I say. I know by your voice that you are not. That is a pretty ring you have.
Did a lady give it to you? Was it our Maudie? I think it must have been our Maud. She has many
beautiful things, but mostly it is the young men who wish to give her such things. She never
sends any of them back, but keeps them in a box, and says that it is good to spoil the Egyptians.
And sometimes when I am tired she will tell me the history of each, and whether he was dark
or fair. Or make it all up just as good when she forgets. But, oh, William, if I were a lady
I should fall in love with nobody but you. For you are so handsome--yes, nearly as handsome
as I am myself--(she passed her hands lightly through her curls as she spoke). And you know
I shall marry no one but a Douglas--only you must not ask me to wed my cousin William of Avondale,
for he is so stern and solemn; besides, he has always a book in his pocket, and wishes me to
learn somewhat out of it as if I were a monk. A Douglas should not be a monk, he should be
a soldier."

So she lay snugly on the bed and prattled on to her brother, who, buried in his thoughts and
occupied with his ring, let the hours slip on till at the open door of the Earl's chamber there
appeared the most bewitching face in the world, as many in that castle and elsewhere were ready
to prove at the sword's point. The little girl caught sight of it with a shrill cry of pleasure,
instantly checked and hushed, however, at the thought of her mother.

"O Maudie," she cried, "come hither into William's room. He has such a beautiful ring that
a lady gave him. I am sure a lady gave it him. Was it you, Maud Lindesay? You are a sly puss
not to tell me if it was. William, it is wicked and provoking of you not to tell me who gave
you that ring. If it had been some one you were not ashamed of, you would be proud of the gift
and confess. Whisper to me who it was. I will not tell any one, not even Maudie."

Her brother had risen to his feet with a quick movement, girding his red gown about him as he rose.

"Mistress Maud," he said respectfully, "I fear I have given you anxiety by detaining your charge
so late. But she is a wilful madam, as you have doubtless good cause to know, and ill to advise."

"She is a Douglas," smiled the fair girl, who stood at the chamber door refusing his invitation
to enter, with a flash of the eye and a quick shake of the head which betokened no small share
of the same qualities; "is not that enough to excuse her for being wayward and headstrong?"

Earl William wasted no more words of entreaty upon his sister, but seized her in his arms,
and pulling the coverlet in which she had huddled herself up with her pert chin on her knees,
more closely about her, he strode along the passage with her in his arms till he stopped at
an open door leading into a large chamber which looked to the south.

"There," he said, smiling at the girl who had followed behind him, "I will lock her in with
you and take the key, that I may make sure of two such uncertain charges." The oil comes out of your cellar,
no for chime, but by the bushel, the slices of bacon flying out of the pantry, the transpose sausages;
butter evaporates, the hams are dissipated. The entire kindred lights, heated, eat, drink and
even dwells at your expense. If you have houses, one of the kindred dwell and do not get the
pay, if you are grower of wine or spirits, often boots, jars and botijuelas, and will enter
empty and overflowing.

Do not believe, however, that since this business so lucrative, many women are engaged He and cheaper
market competition. Throughout the territory of Cordoba has always lived people are very noble and very
difficult at points of honor. Old Colony as true citizens Romans, not freed, like others, deserved
and earned the title of patrician, when the invasion Mohammed, did not come to populate Berber
rude and commoners, but men of pure light Arabian blood, the most illustrious lineage of Medina and
Mecca, the descendants of the Ansar Tab and muhadjires. And finally, having been my province,
for two centuries, frontier the kingdom of Granada, had to take and had to defend their custody
and places strong, and to retaliate for any attack, riot by entering domains the Alarba, cutting
their crops and doing other mischief thousand insolence and a population tough and courageous
men,

    
    All gentlemen of honor And you really love,

as he sings the old romance.

Since then he has tarnished his well-established reputation Córdoba: and not idle boasting, but with
plenty of reason, bears the motto, regarding the rampant lions of his clean coat "Corduba, militiae
domus, inclyta fonsque Sophiaa." Lucan, Seneca, Averroes, Ambrosio de Morales, Gongora and a thousand
others attest to the latter. Accredited first on innumerable multitude, the staunch and courageous
warriors in every way Córdoba has grown; and to wonder and terror of the enemies of Spain as
the Great Captain; and for perpetual anxiety and dread constant gentle Spanish, such as Tempranillo,
Francisco Esteban El Guapo, Benamejí Chat The Cripple of Encinas-Reales, Navarro's Lucena, and
Caparrota the Doña-Mencia.

It is therefore plain that her husband has been there much, much indulgent parent, and many interested
and easy women. Which is what makes him pay dearly, not because of the rarity, but so lost.
Only by dint of superb gifts and generosity, and dazzling with luxury, it is sometimes forgive
its missteps. Still, she is spurned and do not usually call it by its name, but with an ironic
nickname, for example, Galga, La Joya, the guitar. Perhaps designated by the generic name
of the country is natural, and to designate its origin stranger, and I've known them to Murcia,
a the Manchego and Tarifa.

If any young lady or a young married maiden feels vagaries of being seduced and coax, there is often
a father or a husband who straightens healthy and good rattan cane. Neither should be very safe
and neglected seductive inspire much respect. Not enough sometimes innocent, if a lover gives
misgivings. True friend of mine from school, in the Sacro Monte, was, years ago, to heal the
soul into a place of my province. He was a great theologian, straight and virtuous, but well spoken,
elegant, Slick and pleasant man who was the eighteenth century had figured in a court, as the
most delicious abbe. Well, in the people took it with him, and, as they say, you abroncaron.
The brónquis that gave came to shoot some shots, but only with gunpowder, to scare. He estimated
that powder, if it was ineffective, it could easily happen to the shot, and ran away with music
and theology elsewhere less difficult.

Such extremes are rare, fortunately. Cordoba is the flirtatious but very cautious and stealthy,
no one agrees. Even the most humble condition, used to evict the patient in love, talking about
his honor, as the ladies Calderon. When this is not enough or scream, or excited, or shocked, but
he defends which a Penthesilea; struggle, as the angel wrestled with Jacob in the darkness of
night, and robust, even angelic, often throw the trip up, overthrow, and even give you a soba,
all with mute eloquence and quietly beautiful. And do not miss this class because of poor girls, and even
in some affluent styling is remarkable robustness. They are harder than marble, not only of
heart, not just in the center, but the entire periphery. One day we toured the country with
the most graceful and main girls of the place. One of them, believing the highest seat, sat
hit on a pile of tiles. Were of the massive and best of Lucena. Three saw broken. She said with
a charming modesty and, before the fall, they were.

Not understood, so that, Amenga or deface anything at all slenderness and kindness of my countrywomen.
One thing is the density and firmness, and over the outrageous volume. The girl that a child
works, go hard and go to the fountain in the ejido, returning from there with the jug full,
on her hip, or washed her clothes in the stream, is strong but not fat. The source or the
pillar was the end of my daily walk, and there I I sat on a bench under a leafy eminent black
poplar. Seeing the girls washing, or fill the jars and go with them so graceful, airy and
light, for that slope above, I moved my spirit to the patriarchal times, and I thought I saw
some Biblical scenes such as Rebecca and Eliacer, and, comparing with the wise King of Ithaca, I
tried in the presence of Princess Nausicaa and her companions kind. Nothing crinolines or
recessed into those girls. The poor short dress, especially in summer, hews the body and gracefully
folded, watching and revealing the juveniles, as in the statue huntress Diana.

Unfortunately, the ladies have taken place, as soon as possible, almost
all French fashion, and are losing their style of dress and grooming.

All huge crinolines used total and now use the pseudo-partial crinoline depriving callipygian. When
you least expect leave the blanket and put the hat. All comb, taking figurine modeled after, and often
call this hairstyle cucuné or rolled up to give up the name, a character abroad. Skirts, short
rather than take them, take them long, and are sweeping dust tail of the roads. In short, it's a
shame this abandonment of the suit itself and appropriate.

Despite these costumes, beauty, or at least the grace, the elegance and wit, are items common
in my countrywomen.

They go far in the delicacy, and especially if dancing. The rigodones and the waltz and polka will
acclimatizing, but the fandango not banished yet. Until ladies come out to make a move, if taken
out and force in any country fair, and move and jump with panache and ease, and castanets rattle
briskly. Women There's people that in this dance and play castanets, due to Teletusa held by
Martial, in that epigram which begins:

Eder ad Baetica crusmata Gestus lewd.

    

If a married woman, as exposed, is a model of patience married, the unmarried is almost always
a model girlfriends. Down to the gate on time every night to talk with love, on what is called
the turkey skin. In every street anywhere in Andalucía are, from 10:00 to 13:00, two separate muffled,
and sewn into most bars. Such Once he sighs and exclaims:

- Too bad you are!

And she answers:

- No, you! ...

And breathe another sigh.

So spend hours and hours.

This exercise has such charm to the man above all, not just extend dating more than that of
Jacob and Rachel, which lasted fourteen years, not only losing the charm of peel the kettle.
The poor girls suffer with patience, but languish and become haggard.

Truth is that then when they get married, not, as elsewhere, that
women are still serving, service and dedication.

Although the groom is a journeyman miserable, try to find his girlfriend, no property become
his wife, quit all work, no weed again or pick olives and be at home as queen and mistress.
If you are serving, says goodbye and leaves to serve, and as does not sew or clean, or iron,
or scrub, or wise, but for her husband and their children. The man, except in rare cases, the
worker, or Garbee garners looks and what is necessary to the support of the entire family.

The Cordoba, is in the class it is, is all heart and tenderness but
without sentimentality false and alchemy that has come from extranjis.

No one (shame confess) has painted Cordoba to the people, truly in love and passionate, as the
novelist Mérimée. Her Carmen is the ideal kind of humble and low capacity, even sublime soul.
As says the Greek poet's couplet, which serves as epigraph to the novel, Carmen knows dying
and love; is admirable when it is given out of love and when love
dies, you have two hours divine: a in death, and another in the thalamus.

From

behind comes the garbanzo the peak, as the vulgar say. Since ancient times is the Cordoba mirror,
northern light and love. Her eyes, like those of Laura, inspired and almost Platonic mystical feelings,
and make a Moor, as Ibn Zeidun, write songs finer than of Petrarch, through Walada princess, who
was also a poet.

The loves of two women have had a huge Cordoba beneficent influence in the world: have contributed
almost have been the cause of the most precious glory for Spain, and events as angels, without
whom the current European civilization is not explained. Without Zahira Gusti love, Mudaliar had
not been born, seven infants of Lara would not have had avenger, the flower of Spanish chivalry
had died before opening the cup, perhaps we had not possessed the Cid, because not inspired
by the sword and collect breath Mudarra with her had not died or given to Count Lozano feat so
enduring principle.

If Dona Beatriz Enriquez fell in love with Columbus in Córdoba, comforting
and encouraging, Colon had gone to Spain, had died in an insane hospital,
I had not discovered new orbs, whose existence was discerned and predicted
more than thousand and four hundred years before an inspired Cordoba,
and the discovery of which gave him the passionate spirit and vigor
Cordoba immortal.

See, then, how are and have been able to my countrywomen. God bless you all.

Unable to appear to be as good, the neglected and abandoned men rogues. Addition The pilgrimage
of which we spoke, the left to go to the casino, where they spend idle time. He had plenty of reason
to the roar of the great Donoso both against the casino, where eloquent book on Catholicism.
It is true that there has always been casino, just before for the rich, is called the box, and was in
the pharmacy, and the poor, the casino was in the tavern. But in the day or the pharmacy or
the pubs are gone, and everywhere however small, swarming, boiled
in casinos.

Each factions, each has the political hue yours. There are conservative casino, casino radical
Carlist casino, casino casino socialist and republican. The poor women are left alone. I do
not know how no woman who is liberal! All should be absolute, and many are in the background.

The
only compensation that the woman brings brand new liberalism is quite
weak marital and paternal authority, which previously was terrible
and even tyrannical.

A rod is the government called a house, but the spirited woman, as is the Cordoba, it hurts
when the disdain that when you're stuck, plus a slight breaks to beat.

Anyway, Cordoba women, like other Spanish, still retains a spring pure comfort for their sorrows
and disappointments: this spring is the Christian religion. Cordoba there is not deeply religious.

Among
men ungodliness has spread. The discharged soldier, returning home, has often bring a copy
of the citing authors, the papers are read, and not all are pious,
and finally, not missing student returning to college Krause infected
and even Hegel, and that addresses the rustic check to see if it makes
pantheistic and egotism.

Women do not understand, nor want to understand, so convoluted picky, and still attached to its old
beliefs.

They are the balm for all wounds of his heart, they will fill imperishable hopes, they open in his
ardent imagination infinite horizons, golden by the divine light of the sun of love and glory.

Even
for less stringent requirements and more vulgar satisfactions is religion a mine inexhaustible.
Almost all honest feminine pastime is based on religion. If it were not for her, Would there
be as happy as the pilgrimage of the Virgen de Araceli and the Virgen de la Sierra Goat? Child
Would Jesus wear? Would procession to do? Would passage of Abraham, Descent, Jews and Romans,
apostles and prophets, encolchados, ensabanados and jumeones, Cross brothers, and other figures
coming out in the streets during Holy Week? None of this would. No woman would jubilees or novenas,
or hear sermons or adorn with flowers no altar, no crosses or engalanaría May, or so happy in the
month of Mary. The swallows, who are now respected because he tore Christ with thorns peak the
crown, would be persecuted and killed, and would not come every year to nest in the eaves
or in the same house, or greet the owner with his gay peeps and squeaks. Especially for women
would be dead and meaningless, that takes religion. The Passiflora lose its symbolic value, and
to love her boyfriend or husband or lover, who she always combined with a presentiment of immortal
joys, and idealized, beautifies and praises with a thousand vague red glow of mysticism, whatever
became quite less poetic.

This is, in general, women in the province of Cordoba. If you go into details, it would this writing
endless.

In that province, as in all, a thousand degrees of culture and wealth, for varying types. There are
also individual differences in character Apparel and understanding.

I missed a very serious point. I'll touch, albeit slightly, before finishing the article. This
point is the philological: the language and style of Cordoba.

The Cordoba, usually (and understood that I speak of the laborer or servant, and not elegant and educated
lady), hache sucks. It also has remarkable propensity to corroborate words with strong syllables
prefixed. When not satisfied with rogue call anyone, retunante called,
and God was not enough, exclaims: Redio!

In several towns in my province and in many towns of Jaen, it is very frequent some inarticulate
interjection which coincides with a snore. The Cordoba, finally, adorns his speech with a
thousand pictures and pictures, he peppered with witticisms and jokes, and encouraged by the
gesture and gesticulation.

The adverb is used to blanket every moment to weigh or abundance of
something expensive.

The voices blankets, manteson, Mantese and mantesonada, mantesería and mantesonería, dot or
fill up all conversation as much of charran Malaga and its derivatives. Is even more unique the
use of the gerund in short, to express something is done smoothly and softness. So you say "Don
Fulano is muriendito. Deseandito The girl is married, or rabiandito by boyfriend. "

In pronunciation leaves a bit to be desired of Cordoba. The Zeda and confused that and unimisman
in their mouths, and the elements, the ere and pe.

Who knows if it would be a teacher Cordoba crumb which told his disciples: "Girls, deaf and
precerto writes ele PE '? But if the pronunciation is this anarchy, the syntax and the lexical well
as the Cordoba Cordoba, are abundant and extremely elegant at times, and always castizos,
easy and funny. No Castilla few people could go there to learn to speak Castilian, as not to
rule.

No servile adulation assure that the Cordoba is usually discreet, funny and sharp. Its natural clearing
supplies in it very often lack of education and knowledge. His talks are hilarious. Facunda is
naturally and spontaneously in what he says and thinks. Friendly laughing and teasing, teasing
men, and they released a thousand barbs sharp and pointed, but never rages.

What else should I add? Cordoba is a miser and a generous, but all
are generous and charities.

Cordoba is still reading old books, the most devout, who belonged her great-grandmother, and
they are as linked in the house; v. gr.: La Perfecta Casada, teacher Leon, The contempt of court
and praise of the village, and Mount Calvary, Fray Antonio de Guevara, and even the Complete
Works (about twenty volumes in folio) of the venerable Palafox. I do not say fantasizing: I have known
villager Cordoba had and read these and other books like that. Others read modern novels of the
worst. Others do not read anything.

Women must have been in Seville or Madrid, who have gone to Manchester
and have seen the sea; and women are never left their small village,
and Madrid are so confused idea like that I am of the cities that
may be on another planet.

Almost none are dissatisfied with their lot. Good pasta is very common. Pride also excited to
underestimate the what is within their reach, and the love of country, contained within the
narrow limits the people that were born and raised, it becomes more intense, energetic and
crisp, and moves to the frenzy that people love and that society,
in preference to all, and stirred almost with fury against anyone
who censorship.

Were I to continue counting and painting things circumstantially,
write a tome of five or six hundred pages.

Let us therefore point here, and thanks to this article not small for long, as the reader has enough
indulgence, roam and quiet, for read all without anger, fatigue, or yawning.

SOME Chrematistics

MEDITATION (a).

I.

When Virgil, inspired by the ancient verses of the Sibyl, the
general expectation among all nations that was to come a savior, and
maybe some news he had of the Hebrew prophets, predicted more or less
vaguely, in his famous Eclogue IV, redemption the world, yet it seemed
that this redemption was not to be instant, however miraculous it
was, and so I said priscae vestigia suberunt fraudis: not a few remnants
remain tunanterías past and misery.

(A) Published in The Magazine
of Spain in 1870. The Whitterick hath it--the Whitterick!"

And thus ran the comment. Sholto being cumbered with his armour, Laurence might in time have
gotten the upper grip. But at this moment a diversion occurred which completely altered the
character of the conflict. A stout, reddish young man came up, holding in his hand a staff
painted with twining stripes of white and red, which showed him to be the marshal of that part
of the camp which pertained to the Earl of Angus. He looked on for a moment from the skirts
of the crowd, and then elbowed his way self-importantly into the centre, till he stood immediately
above Laurence and Sholto.

"What means this hubbub, I say? Quit your hold there and come with me; my Lord of Angus will
settle this dispute."

He had come up just when the young men were in the final grips, when Sholto had at last gotten
his will of his brother's head, and was, as the saying is, giving him "Dutch spice" in no very
knightly fashion.

The Angus marshal, seeing this, seized Sholto by the collar of his mailed shirt, and drawing
him suddenly back, caused him to lose hold of his brother, who as quickly rose to his feet.
The red man began to beat Sholto about the headpiece right heartily with his staff, which exercise
made a great ringing noise, though naturally, the skull cap being the work of Malise MacKim,
little harm ensued to the head enclosed therein.

But Master Laurence was instantly on fire.

"Here, Foxy-face," he cried, "let my brother a-be! What business is it of yours if two gentlemen
have a difference? Go back to your Angus kernes and ragged craw-bogle Highland folk!"

Meanwhile Sholto had recovered from his surprise, and the crowd of varlets was melting apace,
thinking the Angus marshal some one of consequence. But the brothers MacKim were not the lads
to take beating with a stick meekly, and the provost, who indeed had nothing to do with the
Galloway part of the encampment, had far better have confined his officiousness to his own
quarters.

"Take him on the right, Sholto," cried Laurence, "and I will have at him from this side." The
Red Angus drew his sword and threatened forthwith to slay the lads if they came near him. But
with a spring like that of a grey Grimalkin of the woods, Sholto leapt within his guard ere
he had time to draw back his arm for thrust or parry, and at the same moment Laurence, snatching
the red and white staff out of his hand, dealt him so sturdy a clout between the shoulders
that, though he was of weight equal to both of his opponents taken together, he was knocked
breathless at the first blow and went down beneath the impetus of Sholto's attack.

Laurence coolly disengaged his brother, and began to thrash the Angus man with his own staff
upon all exposed parts, till the dry wood broke. Then he threw the pieces at his head, and
the two brothers went off arm in arm to find a woody covert in which to repair damages against
the weapon-showing, and the inspection of their lord and his keen-eyed master armourer.

As soon as they had discovered such a sequestered holt, Laurence, who had frequent experience
of such rough-and-tumble encounters, stripped off his doublet of purple velvet, and, turning
the sleeve inside out, he showed his brother that it was lined with a rough-surfaced felt cloth
almost of the nature of teasle. This being rubbed briskly upon any dusty garment or fouled
armour proved most excellent for restoring its pristine gloss and beauty. The young men, being
as it were born to the trade and knowing that their armament must meet their father's inexorable
eye, as he passed along their lines with the Earl, rubbed and polished their best, and when
after half an hour's sharp work each examined the other, not a speck or stain was left to tell
of the various casual incidents of the morning. Two bright, fresh-coloured youths emerged from
their thicket, immaculately clad, and with countenances of such cherubic innocence, that my
lord the Abbot William of the great Cistercian Abbey of Dulce Cor, looking upon them as with
bare bowed heads they knelt reverently on one knee to ask his blessing, said to his train,
"They look for all the world like young angels! It is a shame and a sin that two such fair
innocents should be compelled to join in aught ruder than the chanting of psalms in holy service."

Whereat one of his company, who had been witness to their treatment of the Angus provost and
also of Laurence's encounter with the knight of the black armour, was seized incontinently
with a fit of coughing which almost choked him.

"Bless you, my sons," said the Abbot, "I will speak to my nephew, the Earl, concerning you.
Your faces plead for you. Evil cannot dwell in such fair bodies. What are your names?"

The younger knelt with his fingers joined and his eyes meekly on the grass, while Sholto, who
had risen, stood quietly by with his steel cap in his hand.

"Laurence MacKim," answered the younger, modestly, without venturing to raise his eyes from
the ground, "and this is my brother Sholto."

"Can you sing, pretty boy?" said the Abbot to Laurence.

"We have never been taught," answered downright Sholto. But his brother, feeling that he was
losing chances, broke in:

"I can sing, if it please your holiness."

"And what can you sing, sweet lad?" asked the Abbot, smiling with expectation and setting his
hand to his best ear to assist his increasing deafness.

"Shut your fool's mouth!" said Sholto under his breath to his brother.

"Shut your own! 'Tis ugly as a rat-trap at any rate!" responded Laurence in the same key. Then
aloud to the Abbot he said, "An it please you, sir, I can sing 'O Mary Quean!'"

The Abbot smiled, well pleased.

"Ah, exceeding proper, a song to the honour of the Queen of Heaven (he devoutly crossed himself
at the name),--I knew that I could not be mistaken in you."

"Your pardon, most reverend," interjected Sholto, anxiously, "please you to excuse my brother;
his voice hath just broken and he cannot sing at present." Then, under his breath, he added,
"Laurie MacKim, you God-forgotten fool, if you sing that song you will get us both stripped
in a thrice and whipped on the bare back for insolence to the Earl's uncle!"

"Go to," said his brother, "I will sing. The old cook is monstrous deaf at any rate."

"Sing," said the Abbot, "I would hear you gladly. So fair a face must be accompanied by the
pipe of a nightingale. Besides, we sorely need a tenor for the choir at Sweetheart."

So, encouraged in this fashion, the daring Laurence began:

    "Nae priests aboot me shall be seen
      To mumble prayers baith morn and e'en,
    I'll swap them a' for Mary Quean!
      I'll bid nae mess for me be sung,
    Dies ille, dies iræ,
      Nor clanking bells for me be rung,
    Sic semper solet fieri!
      I'll gang my ways to Mary Quean."

"Ah, very good, very good, truly," said the Abbot, thrusting his hand into his pouch beneath
his gown, "here are two gold nobles for thee, sweet lad, and another for your brother, whose
countenance methinks is somewhat less sweet. You have sung well to the praise of our Lady!
What did you say your name was? Of a surety, we must have you at Sweetheart. And you have the
Latin, too, as I heard in the hymn. It is a thing most marvellous. Verily, the very unction
of grace must have visited you in your cradle!"

Laurence held down his head with all his native modesty, but the more open Sholto grew red
in the face, hearing behind him the tittering and shoulder-shaking of the priests and lay servants
in the Abbot's train, and being sure that they would inform their master as soon as he passed
on concerning the true import of Master Laurence's song. He was muttering in a rapid recitative,
"Oh, wait--wait, Laurie MacKim, till I get you on the Carlinwark shore. A sore back and a stiff
skinful of bones shalt thou have, and not an inch of hide on thee that is not black and blue.
Amen!" he added, stopping his maledictions quickly, for at that moment the Abbot came somewhat
abruptly to the end of his speech.

The great churchman rode away on his fair white mule, with a smile and a backward wave of his hand.

"I will speak to my nephew concerning you this very day, my child," he cried.

And the countenance of that most gentle youth kept its sweet innocence and angelic grace to
the last, but that of Sholto was more dark and frowning than ever.

CHAPTER X

THE BRAES OF BALMAGHIE

By ten of the clock the braes of Balmaghie were a sight most glorious to look upon. Well nigh
twelve thousand men were gathered there, of whom five thousand were well-mounted knights and
fully equipped men-at-arms, every man of them ready and willing to couch a lance or ride a charge.

The line of the tents which had been set up extended from opposite the Castle island of Thrieve
to the kirk hill of Balmaghie. Every knight's following was strictly kept within its own pale,
or fence of green wands set basket-wise, pointed and thrust into the earth like the spring
traps of those who catch mowdiewarts. Many also were the quarrels and bickerings of the squires
who had been sent forward to choose and arrange the several encampments. Nor were rough and
tumble fights such as we have seen the MacKims indulging in, thought derogatory to the dignity
of any, save belted knights only.

Each camp displayed the device of its own lord, but higher than all, from the top of every
mound and broomy hillock floated the banner of the overlord. This was the lion of Galloway,
white on a ground of blue, and beneath it, but on the same staff, a pennon whereon was the
bleeding heart of the Douglas family.

The lists were set up on the level meadow that is called the Boat Croft. At either end a pavilion
had been erected, and the jousting green was strongly fenced in, with a rising tier of seats
for the ladies along one side, and a throne in the midst for the Douglas himself, as high and
as nobly upholstered as if the King of Scots had been presiding in person.

At ten by the great sun-dial of Thrieve, the Earl, armed in complete armour of rare work, damascened
with gold, and bearing in his hand the truncheon of commander, rode first through the fords
of Lochar, and immediately after him came his brother David, a tall handsome boy of fourteen,
whose olive skin and highbred beauty attested his Douglas birth.

Next rode the Earl of Angus, a red, foxy-featured man, with mean and shifty eyes. He sat his
horse awkwardly, perpetually hunching his shoulders forward as if he feared to fall over his
beast's head. And saving among his own company, no man did him any honour, which caused him
to grin with wicked sidelong smiles of hate and envy.

Then amid the shouting of the people there appeared, on a milk-white palfrey, Margaret, the
Earl's only sister, already famous over all Scotland as "The Fair Maid of Galloway." With her
rode one who, in the esteem of most who saw the pair that day, was a yet rarer flower, even
Maud Lindesay, who had come out of the bleak North to keep the lonely little maid company.
For Margaret of Douglas was yet no more than a child, but Maud Lindesay was nineteen years
of age and in the first perfect bloom of her beauty.

Behind these two came the whole array of the knights and barons who owned allegiance to the
Douglas,--Herons and Maxwells, Ardwell Macullochs, Gordons from the Glen of Kells, with Agnews
and MacDowalls from the Shireside. But above all, and outnumbering all, there were the lesser
chiefs of the mighty name--Douglases of the North, the future Moray and Ormond among them,
the noble young sons of James the Gross of Avondale, who rode nearest their cousin, the head
of the clan. Then came Douglases of the Border, Douglases of the Hermitage, of Renfrew, of
Douglasdale. Every third man in that great company which splashed and caracoled through the
fords of Lochar, was a William, a James, or an Archibald Douglas. The King himself could not
have raised in all Scotland such a following, and it is small wonder if the heart of the young
man expanded within him.

Presently, soon after the arrival of the cavalcade, the great wappenshaw was set in array,
and forming up company by company the long double line extended as far as the eye could reach
from north to south along the side of the broad and sluggish-moving river.

Sholto, who in virtue of his courage and good marksmanship had been placed over the archer
company which waited on the right of the ford, fell in immediately behind the cortège of the
Earl. He was first man of all to have his equipment examined, and his weapons obtained, as
they deserved, the commendation of his liege lord, and the grim unwilling approval of Malise,
the master armourer, whose unerring eye could not detect so much as a speck on the shirt of
mail, or a grain of rust on the waist brace of shining steel.

Then the Earl rode down the lines, and Sholto, remembering the encounter amidst the dust of
the roadway, breathed more freely when he saw his father's back.

And surely that day the heart of the Douglas must have beat proud and high within him, for
there they stood, company behind ordered company, the men on whom he could count to the death.
And truly the lad of eighteen, who in Scotland was greater than the King, looked upon their
steadfast thousands with a swelling heart.

The Abbot had made particular inquiries where Laurence was stationed, which was in the archer
company of the Laird of Kelton. Most of the monkish band had been made too happy by the deception
practised on their Abbot concerning "Mary Quean," and were too desirous to have such a rogue
to play his pranks in the dull abbey, to tell any tales on Laurence MacKim. But one, Berguet,
a Belgian priest who had begged his way to Scotland, and whose nature was that of the spy and
sycophant, approached and volunteered the information to the Abbot that this lad to whom he
was desirous of showing favour, was a ribald and hypocritical youth.

"Eh, what?" said the Abbot, "a bodle for thy ill-set tongue, false loon, dost think I did not
hear him sing his fair and seemly orisons? I tell thee, rude out-land jabberer, that I am a
Douglas, and have ears better than those of any Frenchman that ever breathed. For this thou
shalt kneel six nights on the cold stone of the holy chapel house, and say of paternosters
ten thousand and of misereres thou shall sing three hundred. And this shall chance to teach
thee to be scanter with thy foul breath when thou speakest to the Abbot of the Foundation of
Devorgill concerning better men than thyself."

The Belgian priest gasped and fell back, and none other was found to say aught against Master
Laurence, which, considering the ten thousand paternosters and the three hundred misereres,
was not unnatural.

As the Earl passed along the line he was annoyed by the iterated requests of his uncle to be
informed when they should come to the company of the Laird of Kelton. And the good Abbot, being
like all deaf men apt to speak a little loud, did not improve matters by constantly making
remarks behind his hand, upon the appearance or character (as known to him) of the various
dependents of the Douglas House who had come out to show their loyalty and exhibit their preparedness
for battle.

As thus it was. The young Earl would come in his inspection to a company of Solway-side men--stiff-jointed
fishers of salmon nets out of the parishes of Rerrick or Borgue--or, as it might be, rough
colts from the rock scarps of Colvend, scramblers after wild birds' nests on perilous heuchs,
and poachers on the deer preserves of Cloak Moss, as often as they had a chance. Then the Earl,
having zealously commended the particular Barnbacle or Munches who led them, all would be peace
and concord, till out of the crowd behind would issue the growling comment of his uncle, the
Abbot of Dulce Cor.

"A close-fisted old thief! The saints pity him not! He will surely fry in Hell! Last Shrovetide
did he not drive off five of our best milch cows, and hath steadfastly refused to restore them?
Anathema maranatha to his vile body and condemned be his huckstering soul!"

Needless to add, every word of this comment and addition was heard by the person most concerned.

Or it might be, "Henry A'milligan--his mother's son, God wot. And his father's, too, doubtless--if
only one could know who his father was. The devil dwell in his fat belly! Exorciso te--"

So it went on till the temper of the young lord of Galloway was strained almost to the breaking
point, for he wished not to cause a disturbance among so great a company and on a day of such
renown.

At last they came to the muster of the clean-run limber lads of Kelton, artificers mostly,
and stated retainers of the castle and its various adjacent bourgs of Carlinwark, Rhonehouse,
Gelston, and Mains of Thrieve.

Some one at this point took the Abbot by the elbow and shouted in his ear that this was the
company he desired to see. Then he rode forward to the left hand of his nephew, as Malise and
he passed slowly down the line examining the weapons.

"Laurence MacKim, I would see Laurence MacKim!" cried the Abbot, holding up his hand as if
in the chapel of his monastery. The Earl stopped, and Malise turned right about on his heel
in great astonishment.

"What wants old marrowbones with our Laurie?" he muttered; "surely he cannot have gotten into
mischief with the lasses already. But I kenna--I kenna. When I was sixteen I can mind--I can
mind. And the loon may well be his father's own son."

And Malise, the man of brawn, watched out of his quiet grey eyes the face of the Abbot William,
wondering what was to come next.

Laurence stood forth at a word of command from the Earl. He saluted, and then dropped the point
of his sword meekly upon the ground. His white-and-rose cherub's face expressed the utmost
goodness and innocence.

"Dear kinsman," said the Abbot to his nephew, "I have a request to prefer which I hope you
will grant, though it deprive you of one retainer. This sweet youth is not fit company for
rude soldiers and ill-bred rufflers of the camp. His mind is already on higher things. He hath
good clerkly Latin also, being skilled in the humanities, as I have heard proven with mine
own ears. His grace of language and deportment is manifest, and he can sing the sweetest and
most spiritual songs in praise of Mary and the saints. I would have him in our choir at Sweetheart
Abbey, where we have much need both of a voice such as his, and also of a youth whose sanctity
and innocence cannot fail to leaven with the grace of the spirit the neophytes of our college,
and the consideration of whom may even bring repentance into older and more hardened hearts."

Malise MacKim could not believe his ears as he listened to the Abbot's rounded periods. But
all the same his grey eyes twinkled, his mouth slowly drew itself together into the shape of
an O, from which issued a long low whistle, perfectly audible to all about him except the Abbot.
"Lord have mercy on the innocence and cloistered quiet of the neophytes if they get our Laurie
for an example!" muttered Malise to himself as he turned away.

Even the young Earl smiled, perhaps remembering the last time he had seen the youth beside
him, clutching and tearing like a wild cat at his brother's throat in the smithy of Carlinwark.

"You desire the life of a clerk?" said Lord William pleasantly to Laurence. He would gladly
have purchased his uncle's silence at even greater price.

"If your lordship pleases," said Laurence, meekly, adding to himself, "it cannot be such hard
work as hammering at the forge, and if I like it not, why then I can always run away."

"You think you have a call to become a holy clerk?"

"I feel it here," quoth Master Laurence, hypocritically, indicating correctly, however, the
organ whose wants have made clerks of so many--that is, the stomach.

Earl William smiled yet more broadly, but anxious to be gone he said: "Mine Uncle, here is
the lad's father, Malise MacKim, my master armourer and right good servant. Ask him concerning
his son."

"'Tis all up a rotten tree now," muttered Laurence to himself; "my father will reveal all."

Malise MacKim smiled grimly, but with a salutation to the dignitary of the church and near
relative of his chief, he said: "Truly, I had never thought of this my son as worthy to be
a holy clerk. But I will not stand in the way of his advancement nor thwart your favour. Take
him for a year on trial, and if you can make a monk of him, do so and welcome. I recommend
a leathern strap, well hardened in the fire, for the purpose of encouraging him to make a beginning
in the holy life."

"He shall indeed have penance if he need it. For the good of the soul must the body suffer!"
said Abbot William, sententiously.

"Saints' bones and cracklings," muttered Laurence, "this is none so cheerful! But I can always
run away if the strap grows overlimber, and then let them catch me if they can. Sholto will
help me."

"Fall out!" commanded the Earl, sharply, "and join yourself to the company of the Abbot William.
Come, Malise, we lose our time."

Thus was one of our heroes brought into the way of becoming a learned and holy clerk. But all
those who knew him best agreed that he had a far road to travel.

CHAPTER XI

THE AMBASSADOR OF FRANCE

The Earl had almost arrived at the pavilion erected at the southern end of the jousting meadow,
when a gust of cheering borne along the lines announced the arrival of a belated company. The
young man glanced northward with intent to discover, by their pennons, who his visitors might
be. But the distance was too great, and identification was made more difficult by the swarming
of the populace round the newcomers. So, being unable to make the matter out, Earl William
despatched his brother David to bring him word of their quality.

Presently, however, and before David Douglas' return, shouts of "Avondale, Avondale!" from
the men of Lanarkshire informed the young Earl of the name of one at least of those who had
arrived. A frown so quick and angry darkened his brow that it showed the consideration in which
the Douglas held his granduncle James the Gross, Earl of Avondale.

"I hope, at least," he said in a low voice to Malise, who stood half a step behind him, "that
my cousins Will and James have come with him. They are good metal for a tourney, and worth
breaking a lance with."

By this time the banners of the visitors were discernible crossing the fords of Lochar, while
high advanced above all private pennons two standards could be seen, the banner royal of Scotland,
and close beside the rampant lion the white lilies of France.

"Saint Bride!" cried the Earl, "have they brought the King of Scots to visit me? His Majesty
had been better at his horn-book, or playing ball in the tennis court of Stirling."

Then came David back, riding swiftly on his fine dark chestnut, which, being free from the
mantle wherein the horses of knights were swathed, and having its mane and tail left long,
made a gallant show as the lad threw it almost on its haunches in his boyish pride of horsemanship.

"William," said David Douglas, "a word in your ear, brother. The whole tribe are here,--fat
Jamie and all his clan."

The brothers conferred a little apart, for in those troubled times men learned caution early,
and though the Douglas was the greatest lord in Scotland, yet, surrounded by meaner men as
he was, it behoved him to be jealous and careful of his life and honour.

Earl Douglas came out of the sparred enclosure of the tilt-ring in order to receive his guests.

First, as an escort to the ambassador royal of France and Scotland who came behind, rode the
Earl of Avondale and his five sons, noble young men, and most unlikely to have sprung from
such a stock. James the Gross rode a broad Clydesdale mare, a short, soft unwieldy man, sitting
squat on the saddle like a toad astride a roof, and glancing slily sideways out of the pursy
recesses of his eyes.

Behind him came his eldest son William, a man of a true Douglas countenance, quick, high, and
stern. Then followed James, whose lithe body and wonderful dexterity in arms were already winning
him repute as one of the bravest knights in all Christendom in every military and manly exercise. Moreover, the mistress was pleased to discrete with
Ines, to explain their views and to find way to say I ran as her, that his spirit and the Inesita
were in complete harmony.

- Come on - said he loves - what do you do fool around here? Come
to bed.

Nothing is more harmful to health that this mischievous fashion of
Madrid to make the day night and night into day.

- I'm coming - said
Agnes.

He continued the housekeeper, who always accompanied her, helped her to undress, and get dressed,
and never away from her at night until she was in bed.

The bedroom of Agnes was set with singular care and cleaning. On the bureau, in a glass case,
they saw a San Antonio de Padua, package, made of clay and painted not vulgar artist. Young Ghost,
glory in Lisbon was very cute face, had good colors, as if life does
not do him penitent dent by the grace of God, and showed ecstatically
happy and contemplating the Child Jesus, who was in his arms and lavished
a thousand gifted favors.

Poor Inesita bed, three chairs and a small table was over which had writing materials were the
same neatness. Completed the furniture a pine cabinet glass doors, within which there were several
books and not a few curiosities and beauties of almost no value, but there were guarded as if
they were the most portentous objects art. There appeared, placed in good order, the wise men
and some shepherds and shepherdesses of a former birth, an angel,
two dolls dressed in a long bath, and several boxes and juguetillos
other witness who gave keeper was thorough and its beautiful owner.

The Inesita linen was in the comfortable, and the dresses and other
finery were kept in a dark little room, immediately to the bedroom,
where he perches, and where covered some indiana old quilts and coconut.

Inesita

first thing he did was hide the letter with the more openly between the pillow his bed and cover.
Then quietly left the housekeeper to help her undress, which was work a few minutes. And he
was finally in bed, her hair gathered no network or cap, but rich and adored loose skein.

Ines said he had no desire to sleep, and asked the housekeeper to let her light to read in
a devotional book for half an hour even. The love, however reluctantly, had to bring veladorcito
to bed and leave him a lighted candle.

During all this was not idle the language of love. Inesita almost always answered in monosyllables,
eager to have ended talk and be alone, but the mistress was in the
mood that night and not just with his thoughts and speeches.

Among other things said:

- Daughter, I can not reach the taste you can have your sister and her husband live in this
maze of the court. How much better we were in our town! Truth is that there salary was more vile,
but ... if there is a penny over here with a hard ... I confess, I'm drowning in these tabuquillos
and cupboard in which we live. How I miss those patios, those corrals of my land! In the kitchen
of Mr. Cure could all this room and too much room! And then ... living so high ... as perched!
Boy, there are steps to get here! And this is not the worst. The worst thing is the little or
no case here to make it. Madrid still I have no person to talk. Back in town, what a delight!
Out me on the street and there was no dog or cat that does not tell me: "God save at his mercy, goodbye,
love Teresa. How do you spend, ma'am? "And other things like that. Here there is no soul I address
the word and give me the good morning. Then everything is expensive, you eat gold or is necessary
dieting, or spend much money eating there. Begin shortly thrushes, and in our land reach up
to five quarters to get a pair. Go you to eat here two as fat as those thrushes. Ya, ya ... I
command you work ... On which there are none ... Y take ... If any, would cost an arm and a leg.
In faith, then you liked you little thrushes!

What eels? How about frog legs? None of this is our scope here but when they ring loud.

- Do not be greedy, love, do not be greedy, do not remember much of pots of Egypt, as I said Monsieur
le Cure, who used to scold you for that vice of gluttony - Ines said laughing.

- It's not gluttony, ungrateful.

I'm sorry for you, not me. I just dish alboronía or a gazpacho.

On the other hand, I'm not mourning only food but also other things.

And I mourn with good reason.

And if not, we are free ... Do you think it is so easy that in Madrid you skip a good boyfriend?

-
Let it ... I did not jump. If I'm not looking forward to having a boyfriend.

- Well, what do you have? What on earth are to have the girls?

- No woman, no ...

- No, miss, it is necessary to skip a good boyfriend and get married. Your sister is great, you
brother is a saint, but you should live life with them and half at
their expense.

Inesita sighed, and continued love:

- In the town, for you, you're a real girl, how he had to miss a rich
landowner, a homeowner or farmer with the kidney well covered, which
aspire to your hand?

But here I find it difficult. The rich go to the Marquesas duped and duchesses, or a thousand rascal
bad breed, who exploit them. What's left for poor girls like you? Nothing ... the cheesy nickname
that usually prodigaros ... and a liquid Don degollante, more shame and hunger more traps than average
living.

- Who knows, loves? - Said Ines -. Do not worry so much about me. God will provide. Goodbye,
and let me alone.

The housekeeper was forced to leave. He kissed his girl, and advised to turn off soon light and
fall asleep, they left the room, carefully closing the door.

Ines was not well in the desert, pulled out of hiding the letter and read as follows:

"My dear lady and dear friend: Despite the respect that I have always treated you, you will not
have noticed the more than brotherly love since you were a little girl teachers. The class difference
between you and me and my lack of fortune, gave me no never mind, while you were here, nor
could I even dream that you expect him to do so I said, accepting my hand. Since you lack the people
God has favored me, bless my work and sleepless nights, and I already
have incomes and means to live here with family, almost as well as
the wealthy.

This change or improvement in my position and the consideration that your sister and her husband
took an honest man and poor, and you should not be any more ambitious
and demanding that she give me after the boldness that I have missed
to the day, and I have to declare that I love and that I should be
the happiest of men if you come to me.

"I know the nobility and generosity of heart to you, and I know I will never marry you by simple
calculation, but I'm not so thoughtlessly enthusiast who does not understand that by giving
important step as the link for all and raise a family, not to be consulted, weighed and measured
the difficulties in life, and the resources that exist to overcome them. For the latter, I tell
you frankly, do not believe that it's offended, I have today Pretty good. From what I can tell
you I own circumstances, his brother and friend My Don Braulio.

"As for me, you know me and decide. I know you do not deserve it, but the love makes me bold,
and implore him to lend me the merits that I need.

"I do not want you to decide at once, but after most careful consideration,
so that not have to repent of lightness.

The life of Madrid must have special attractions for girls. I want to see you in Madrid, and
know and appreciate all these attractions, to renounce them, knowing what waiver, when I give
a yes, if by that I given.

If you would join your fate to mine, would be respected and loved here, and the surround yo
anything that might be pleasing, to the welfare and culture of these places I agree, but you
would have to abandon all idea of ​​returning, were not a step large
cities.

My ambition and all my life plans are coded in care my flow and doing more in this town where I
live also my children, if God's given me. Why put a period to the answer I want, and I beg you not give
me the rush.

My impatience is great, but I restrain my impatience when this is my lifelong happiness, and above
all, of you, I is a thousand times more expensive.

"I have a whim and caprice call him because it would be neat state here the grounds on which is founded:
I have a fancy to you, in full freedom, without anyone to influence
their advice for or against, decide my fate, rejected, or favoring.

"So this statement of mine is a secret to everyone, including his wife's sister you, Dona Beatriz.
Only Don Braulio know the step I take, but he has promised Don Braulio
not advocate for me, and just give you the reports you requested.

"I will wait until within a month, at least. Do not attribute you coldness of my soul this long
wait that I impose.

Atribúyalo the idea so high that I have the solemnity and therefore commitment to induce you
to enter.

"I said to you to, but not you that dude, even despised, will always
admiring your affectionate and loving, Paco Ramirez.

"

Inesita read this letter with very great satisfaction, showing it in the lipstick that animated and
lit his face. No one, however, that would have been in that moment, except for powers supernatural
to read souls, if satisfaction had discovered was just vanity to
be loved, or even love for the person who was determined to woo her.

Read the letter, Inesita rose from bed, opened the top drawer of the dresser and kept the letter
in it locked up.

Then lay down again, turned off the light and placed comfortably to meditate perhaps on content of
that document, and sleep at last.

VI

The next morning, Ines and Don Braulio, while Dona Beatriz, less early bird that , was still in
bed, had a long conversation about the letter undoubtedly Paco Ramírez.

Then they went to church together the two sisters, then all had lunch, and finally, Don Braulio,
not without promise before that night would lead to the two girls of the Gardens Buen Retiro,
went to the Ministry of Finance. Although Sunday, Don Braulio prompted his departure, or gave
an excuse for it, assuming it was extraordinary occupations.

Back in his office, where no one had come over him, Don Braulio, instead of studying records,
long time was sitting with his elbows on his office and hands on the cheeks, studying himself.
This study should not give very satisfactory results.

Don Braulio sighed several times, knit his brows, showed some anger taking some punches, and
eventually relent and shed two tears, slowly sailed her face.

Then, as by way of ease and comfort, Paco Ramírez wrote the following letter:

"Dear Paco: Last night I fulfilled your request with all the requirements and precautions that
you gave me. Beatriz ignored and will ignore the step you have taken. Agnes is very secretive.
As the effect of reading your letter may have had on his mind, I do not know what to say.
This morning I spoke with Agnes, but the heart of a maiden is impenetrable, unfathomable as an
abyss.

Modesty, candor, innocence, all these garments, men believe long, are no longer a thick veil,
but a high, thick wall, which serves to repair heart to not be noticed or read what it mind
reading. Hence the deception men often have more clear, but are not cheating when you no longer have
Remedy: After marrying.

"Inesita seems, and I think that is candid, good, frank, everything you can imagine, but does
not leave you to discover not whether or not, but if your letter has not been flattered and
flattered. That's right: she has been very grateful for the affection and confidence that
inspires you. In terms I infer also told me something very important. If Agnes had thought reflectively
this other thing would be something to censor much thought, but I think she feels one instinctively,
not realizing comprehensive, and sensible, however, fair. In sum, Agnes does not calculate or
thinks, but feels and perceives that your plan is bad and caused the error. You will offer
to be decided in a month or for the pleasures of this capital, for the triumphs self-esteem can
be here and ambitious hopes which may be incurred in soul, or for
yourself, your love and your hand.

This would be discrete if there were no circumstances it spoils and has discovered her at once.

"It
is this fact of your absence. Missing you and present all such property, apparent or Real,
who has to leave for you, the game is not the same. Not you who struggle, but your memory, which,
if one side is worth less than the individual, on the other hand
may be worth much more if it beautifies poetry.

In short: Inesita not going to leave this for you, because you prefer, but for the recollection
of you, who has not seen for three years. The memory also have to be confusing, incomplete,
diverse lot, and it will be completed and transform it with fantasy.

She will not be remembered as a woman remembers a man, as a bride
remembers her boyfriend, but as a young girl remembers her older brother.

Has, then add the imaginary quality of loving and thinking about you other than to now thought.

"All
this and more, you will understand without my saying so, is stirred
in the mind of Agnes.

I interpret, perhaps I'm wrong, but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he
saw him in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved only brother? And
if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because the people I had not seen
other men who deserve it more?

Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find, when you see him, well under
the memory itself? In its own soul, can not be such a phenomenon? Whatever it is, explain it
as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I said that I loved when we lived together, and Now,
I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants to marry
me. What is this?

"Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not solve any doubt that the assault. I understand,
then, that what you want, but dared not tell me, is that you come
by here; only way for her to see clearly everything to convince you
love, and understanding if she loves you, all the charms prefiriéndote
Madrid, which, indeed, are a thousand times smaller than you think,
for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has no
reason to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and then talk, then I say yes
or you'll squash. "This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must
stay there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have
to be from the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To
you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you, and I can not help you tell you,
in order to alleviate the weight of my troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior to those
seen here. I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection, the suspicion
that the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor performance I do, I neglected
I am, the lowly position I hold, do not end up neglected, too? Do not end up hate me if I considered
that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor, was a lady of the first. Here is the
wife of a dark and miserable clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride. But How to convert my wife
and make a believer of my theory? Does not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure
you like the thermometer. Let's get it 100 degrees, which is round number, and 20, in my opinion,
sufficient for all practical life, if fortune is blowing and the circumstances are favorable. With
the 20 degrees it becomes minister extolled, prince of great merit, president of a republic,
a banker and even powerful cardinal and pope. To make all these moderately papers just half
the degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables of the highest
social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20 will be not only
useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest,
you will think in many cases unnecessary, not think that fools you
stirred up hatred of other men, or will make you look as an oddball,
quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the 100, which
and grades are genius.

May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think you're a genius or you're close
to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required 100 degrees well covered,
and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny
brings out.

Then appear Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not appear
to be more deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding,
needed to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst
of civilization or environment around us.

It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more degrees to the practical,
and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only two or three degrees.
Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning, a certain instinct
little higher than wild beasts.

All grades of understanding on this was then a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now,
as the war have been applied to mathematics and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the
stock market in the Congress, in commercial and industrial companies, not shooting arrows,
but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and other projectiles complicated
grades needed are 20.

Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is
already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense
deeper, more philosophical, most momentous of the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful.
All fired the shots that escape through white top.

        Well above the critical killer all inspiration
      and kills you.

Do not do a thousand things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives. Instead, what you
do to seem unobtrusive, or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which is often deplorable, seems
silly to everyone.

"This is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking
the innocent vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the
ready in deepest philosophical meaning of the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted
for my wife.

She does not look it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect,
consideration and flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress that makes this evil in the heart
it. In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me. I compare your doctor when he notices the
progress of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the damage is to
do and not even know how to avoid or remedy.

"I see too well clear
contempt for me that is slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and
devouring the affection that I have. But how to prevent this? How
do I prove I'm worth more than the blessed and exalted and rich? The
speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable
in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope
that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer on a high opinion of
my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing, and I'm puny and
ugly as hell. I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What
is the devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

And without
hesitation I answer: Nothing. Soon there will be nothing left for
me in the heart of it, but offensive compassion, if not spend all
that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for me. Well
our immortal writer says: "And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone
you pity. "

"I explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with
someone my troubles. That's why I entrust you. Beatriz sees nothing.
How, why, for what reason to complain to her and she?

"I love her
with all my heart, and need to be happy that she loves me and respect
me. But that that love requires love is a lie. Nor do I want to love
me and respect me for fulfill an obligation, under a contract.

"I
see, then, I'll lose everything in the soul of Beatrice, and do not
give to know that I see. Clearly perceive the abyss I'll fall, and
keep walking towards it, not that I can turn the other way or fill
up the gap.

"This is my horrible situation. No one, or yourself,
should trust it, but need to deposit someone my secret pain. Come
over here to comfort me. See also Inesita. Did you love. It is a good
and loving as Beatrice, and has no ambition and Beatrice. For he was all day with my father
at his elbow, and at the worst I shall have another chance of seeing"--he did not call the
beloved by her Christian name even to himself, so he compromised by adding somewhat lamely--"her."

Thus Sholto, putting speed in his heels and swinging along over the trampled sward with the
easy tireless trot of a sleuthhound, threaded his way among the groups of villein prickers
and swearing men-at-arms who cumbered the main approaches of the castle.

He found the Earl walking swiftly up and down a little raised platform which extended round
three sides of Thrieve, outside the main defences, but yet within the nether moat, the sluggish
water of which it over-looked on its inner side.

Earl William was manifestly discomposed and excited by the events of the day, and especially
by the fact that the Lady Sybilla seemed utterly unconscious of ever having set eyes upon him
before, appearing entirely oblivious of having received him in a pavilion of rose-coloured
silk under the shelter of a grove of tall pines. The young lord instinctively recoiled from
any communication with his master armourer, whose grave and impassive face revealed nothing
which might be passing in his mind. Then the Earl's thoughts turned upon Sholto, who had been
the first to observe his beauteous companion of the Carlinwark woods.

Earl William was even younger than Sholto, but the cares and dignities of a great position
had rendered him far less boyish in manner and carriage than the son of Malise MacKim.

His head, now released from his helm, rose out from the richly ornamented collar of his armour
with the grace of a flower and the strength of a tree rooted among rocks. He had already laid
aside his gorget, and when Sholto was announced, the Earl's ancient retainer, old Landless
Jock of Abernethy, was bringing him a cap of soft velvet which he threw on the back of his
head with an air of supreme carelessness. Then he rose and walked up and down, carrying his
armour as if it had been a mere feather weight, whereas it was tilting harness of double plate
and designed only for wearing on horseback.

Sholto marked in the young lord a boyish eagerness equal to his own. Indeed, his impatient
manner recalled his late feelings, as he had stood on the bridge and desired to be left alone
with his thoughts of Maud Lindesay.

Sholto stood still and quiet on the topmost step of the ascent from the moat-bridge waiting
for the Earl to signify his will.

CHAPTER XIV

CAPTAIN OF THE EARL'S GUARD

"Sholto MacKim," said the Earl of Douglas, abruptly, "saw you the lady who arrived with the
foreign ambassador?"

"She is indeed wondrous fair to look on," answered Sholto, the whole heart in him instantly
wary, while outwardly he seemed more innocent than before.

"Have your eyes ever lighted on that lady before?"

"Nay, my lord, of a surety no. In what manner should they, seeing that I have never been in
France in my life, nor indeed more than a score of miles from this castle of Thrieve?"

"Thou art a good lad, and also ready of wit, Master Sholto," said the Earl, looking at the
armourer's son musingly. "Clear of eye and true of hand, so they tell me. Did you not win the
arrow prize this day?"

Lord William raised his eyes to where in the bonnet of the youth his own golden badge of archery
glistened.

"And I also won the swording prize at the last wappenshaw on the moot hill of Urr," said Sholto,
taking courage, and being resolved that if his fortune stood not now on tiptoe, it should not
be on account of any superfluity of modesty on his own part.

"Ah," said the Earl, "I remember. It was two golden hearts joined together with an arrow and
a star in the midst--a fitting Douglas emblem, by the bones of Saint Bride! Where hast thou
left that badge that thou dost not wear it along with the other?"

Sholto blushed and muttered that he had forgotten it at home. He was all of a breaking perspiration
lest he should have to tell the Earl that he had given it to Maud Lindesay, as indeed he meant
to do presently, along with the golden buckle of archery,--that is if the dainty, mischievous-hearted
maiden could be persuaded to accept thereof.

"Ah," said the Earl, smiling, "I comprehend. There is some maid in the question, and if I advance
you to the command of my house-guard and give you an officer's responsibility, you will of
a surety be ever desiring to go gadding to the greenwood--and around the loch of Carlinwark
are most truly dangerous glades."

"Nay, indeed nay," cried Sholto, eagerly. "If it is my lord's will to appoint me to his guard,
by Saint Bride and all the other saints I swear never to leave the island, unless it be sometimes
of a Sunday afternoon for an hour or two--just to see my mother."

"Your mother!" quoth the Earl, laughing heartily. "So then my two golden hearts are in your
mother's keeping. Art a good lad, Sholto, and as for guile it is simply not in thee!"

Sholto looked modestly down upon the earth, as if conscious of his own exceeding merits, but
willing for the nonce to say nothing about them. But the young Earl came over to him, and dealing
him a sound buffet on the back, cried: "Nay, lad, that lamb-like look I have seen tried on
mine uncle the Abbot of Sweetheart. Thy brother Laurence is in the way of clerkly advancement
on account of that same sweetly innocent regard, which he hath in even greater perfection.
But I am a young man, remember--and one youth flings not glamour easily into the eyes of another.
Sholto, neither you nor I are any better than we should be, and if we are not so evil as some
others, let us not set up as overwhelmingly virtuous. For at twenty virtue is mostly but lack
of opportunity."

Sholto blushed so becomingly at this accusation that if the Earl had not seen the brothers
locked in the death grip like crabs in a fishwife's creel, even he might have been deceived.

"Nevertheless," continued the Earl, "in spite of your claims to virtue, I am resolved to make
you officer of my castle-guard--if not in name, at least in fact. For old Landless Jock of
Abernethy must keep the name while he lives, and stand first when my steward pays out the chuckling
golden Lions at Whitsun and eke Lady Day. But you shall have enough and be no longer a charge
upon your father. Malise should be a proud man, having both his sons provided for in one day."

The Earl turned him about with his usual quick imperiousness. "Malise," he cried, "Malise MacKim!"

And again the "word" ran through the castle, escaped the gate, circumnavigated the moat, and
ran round the circle of the tents till the shouts of "Malise, Malise," could have been heard
almost at the deserted fords of Lochar, where sundry varlets were watching for a chance to
search the deserted pavilions for anything left behind therein by the knights and squires.

Presently there was seen ascending to the moat platform the huge form of the master armourer
himself. He stood waiting his master's pleasure, with a knife which he had been sharpening
in his hand. It was a curious weapon, long, thin, and narrow in the blade, which was double-edged
and ground fine as a razor on both sides.

"Ah, Malise," said the Earl, "you have not taught your son amiss. He threatens to turn out
a most marvellous lad, for not only can he make weapons, but he can excel the best of my men-at-arms
in their use. Have you any objection that he be attached to my guard?"

The strong man smiled with his usual calm, and kept his humorous grey eyes fixed shrewdly on
the Earl.

"Aye," he said, "it is indeed more fitting that Sholto, my son, should ride behind my Lord
of Douglas than stiff old Malise upon his Flanders mare."

The Earl blushed a little, for he remembered how the armourer had offered to ride behind him
after he had shod Black Darnaway at the Carlinwark. He went on somewhat hastily.

"I have resolved to make your son, Sholto, officer of the castle-guard. It is perhaps over-responsible
a post for so young a man, yet I myself am younger and have heavier burdens to bear. Also Landless
Jock is growing old and stiff, and will not suffer to be spoken to. For my father's sake I
cannot be severe with him. He will die in his charge if he will, but on Douglasdale and not
at Thrieve. So now I would have your son do my bidding without question, which is more than
his father ever did before him."

"I can answer for Sholto," said Malise MacKim. "He is afraid of nothing save perhaps the strength
of his father's right arm. He is cool enough in danger. Nothing daunts him except the flutter
of a farthingale. But then my lord knows well that is a fault most commendable in this castle
of Thrieve. Sholto will be an honest captain of your house-carls, if you see to it that the
steward locks up his loaves of sugar and his most toothsome preserves."

"Faith," cried the Earl, heartily, "I know not but what I would join Master Sholto in a raid
on these dainties myself."

In this fashion was Sholto MacKim placed in command of the house-guard of the castle of Thrieve.

CHAPTER XV

THE NIGHT ALARM

At parting with his father, the young captain received many wise and grave instructions, all
of which he resolved to remember and profit by--a resolution which he did not fail to keep
for full five minutes.

"Be douce in deportment," said his father, speaking quietly and yet with a certain sternness
of demeanour. "Think three times before you give an order, but let no man think even once before
obeying it. Set him astraddle the wooden horse with a spear shaft at either foot to teach him
that a soldier's first duty is not to think. Keep your eyes more on the alert for the approach
of an enemy than for the ankles of the women-folk at the turnings of the turret stairs."

To these and many other maxims out of the incorporate wisdom of the elders, Sholto promised
most faithful attendance, and, for the time being, he fully intended to keep his word. But
no sooner was his father gone, and he introduced to his new quarters and duties by David Douglas,
the Earl's younger brother, than he began to wonder which was the window of Maud Lindesay's
chamber and speculate on how soon he would see her thereat.

In the castle of Thrieve that night there was little sleeping room to spare. The Earl and his
brother lay wrapped in their plaids in one of the round towers of the outer defences. In the
castle hall the retainers of the French ambassador slept side by side, or heads and tails with
the archers of the house-guard. Lights flickered on the turnpike stair which led to the upper
floors. The servitors had cleared the great hall, and here on a dais, raised above the "marsh"
and sheltered by an arras curtain hastily arranged, James the Gross slept on a soft French
bed, which he had caused to be brought all the way from his castle of Strathavon on the moors
of Lanarkshire.

In the Earl's chamber on the third floor was lodged the Marshal de Retz. Next him ranged the
apartment of the countess. Here also was the Lady Sybilla at the end of the passage in the
guest chamber which looked to the north, and from the windows of which she could see the broad
river dividing itself about the castle island, and flowing as calmly on as if the stern feudal
pile had been a peaceful monastery and the waving war banners no more than so many signs of
holy cross.

Above, in the low-roofed chambers, which gave upon the wooden balcony, were the apartments
of Maud Lindesay and her charge, little Margaret Douglas, the Fair Maid of Galloway.

Now the single postern stair of the castle was shut at the foot, where it opened out upon the
hall of the guard by a sparred iron gate, the key of which was put into Sholto's charge. The
night closed early upon the castle-ful of wearied folk. The marshals of the camps caused the
lights to be put out at nine-of-the-clock in all the tents and pavilions, but the lamps and
candles burned longer in the castle itself, where the Earl had been giving a banquet to his
guests, of the best that his estates could afford. Nevertheless, it was yet long before midnight
when the cheep of the mouse in the wainscot, the restless stir or muffled snore of a crowded
sleeper in the guardroom, was the only sound to be heard from dungeon to banner-staff of the
great castle.

Sholto's heart throbbed tumultuous and insurgent within him. And small is the wonder. Never
in his wildest dreams had he imagined such a fate as this, to be actual captain of the Earl's
own body-guard, even though neither title nor emolument was yet wholly his; better still, that
he should dwell night and day within arm's reach almost of the desire of his heart, flinty-bosomed
and mischievous as she was--these were heights of good fortune to which his imagination had
never climbed in its most daring ascents.

No longer did he envy his brother's good fortune, as he had been somewhat inclined to do earlier
in the day, when he thought of returning to wield the forehammer all alone in his father's smithy.

The first night of Captain Sholto's responsibility in the castle of Thrieve was destined to
be a memorable one. To the youth himself it would have appeared so in any case. Only a panelled
door divided him from the girl who, wayward and scornful as she had ever been to him, yet kept
his heart dangling at her waist-belt as truly as if it had been the golden key of her armoire.

The ancient Sir John of Abernethy, dubbed Landless Jock, would not be separated from his masters,
and slept with two sergeants of the guard in the turret adjacent to that in which the brothers
of Douglas, William and David, lay in the first sleep of youth and an easy mind.

Sholto therefore found himself left with the undivided responsibility for the safety of the
castle and all who dwelt within it. He was also the only man who, by reason of his charge and
in virtue of his master-key, was permitted to circulate freely through all the floors and passages
of the vast feudal pile.

Sholto went out to the barred gate of the castle, where in a little cubbyhole dark even at
noonday, and black as Egypt now, the warder slept with his hand upon his keys, and his head
touching the lever of the gear wherewith he drew the creaking portcullis up and rolled back
the iron doors which shut the keep off from the world of the wide outer courtyard and the garrison
which manned the turrets.

The porter, Hugh MacCalmont, sat up on his elbow at Sholto's salutation, only enough to see
his visitor by the glint of the little iron "cruisie" lamp hanging upon the wall. He knew him
by the golden chain of office which the Earl had given Sholto.

"Captain of the guard," he muttered, "Lord, here's advancement indeed. My lord might have remembered
me that have served him faithfully these thirty years, opening and shutting without mistake.
He might have named me captain of the guard, and not this limber Jack. But the young love the
young, and in truth 'tis natural. But what Landless Jock will say when he comes to have this
sprat set over him, I know not but I can guess!"

Satisfied that all was safe there, Sholto stepped gingerly over the reclining forms of the
first relief guard, who lay wrapped in their cloaks, every man grasping his arms. Most of these
were lying in the dead sleep of tired men, whilst others restlessly moved about this way and
that, as if seeking an easier adaptation of their bones to the corners of the blue whinstones
and rough shell lime than had been provided for when the castle was built by Archibald the
Grim, Lord of Thrieve and Galloway.

Close by the last turn of the turret staircase yawned the iron-sparred mouth of the dungeon,
in which in its time many a notable prisoner had been immured. It was closed with a huge grid
of curved iron bars, each as thick as a man's arm, cunningly held together by a gigantic padlock,
the key of which was nightly taken to the sleeping-room of the Earl--whether, as was now the
case, the cell stood empty, or whether it contained an English lord waiting ransom or a rebellious
baron expectant of his morning summons to the dule tree of the Black Douglas.

Then taking the master-key from his belt, Sholto unlocked the sparred gate leading from the
salle de garde into the turret stair which was the sole communication with the upper floors
of the castle.

Slowly, and with a step no louder than the beating of his own heart, he went upwards, glancing
in midway upon the banquet hall, where the dim light from the postern without revealed a number
of dark forms wrapped in slumber lying on the dining-table and on the floor; ascending yet
higher he came to the floor where slept the Countess of Douglas, the Lady Sybilla, and in the
Earl's own chamber the Marshal de Retz, ambassador of the King of France.

Sholto stood a moment with his hand raised in a listening attitude, before he ventured to ascend
those narrower stairs which led to the uppermost floor of all, on which were the chambers occupied
by the little Maid Margaret and her companion and gossip Mistress Maud Lindesay.

He told himself that it was his duty to see to the safety of the whole castle; that he had
special instructions to visit three times, during the course of each night of duty, all the
passages and corridors of the fortress. But nevertheless it needed all his courage to enable
Sholto to perform the task which had been laid upon him. As he dragged one foot after the other
up the turret stairs, it seemed as if a leaden clog had been attached to each pointed shoe.

He had also a vague sense of being watched by presences invisible to him, but malign in their
nature. Again and again he caught himself listening for footsteps which seemed to dog his own.
He heard mysterious whisperings that flouted his utmost vigilance, and mocking laughter that
lurked in unseen crevices and broke out so soon as he had passed.

Sholto set his hand firmly upon his sword handle and bit his lips, lest even to himself he
should own his uneasiness. It was not seemly that the captain of the Douglas guard should be
frightened by shadows.

Passing the corridor which led towards the sleeping rooms of the maid and her companion, he
ascended to the roof of the castle, thrusting aside the turret door and issuing upon the wide,
open spaces with an assured step. The cool breeze from the west restored him to himself in
a moment. The waning moon cast a pale light across the landscape, and he could see the tents
on the castle island glimmer greyish white beneath him. Beyond that again was the shining confluence
of the sluggish river about the isle, and the dark line of the woods of Balmaghie opposite.
He had begun to meditate on the rapid changes of circumstance which had overtaken him, when
suddenly a shrill and piercing shriek rang out, coming up through the castle beneath, again
and again repeated. It was like the cry of a child in the grip of instant and deadly terror.

Sholto's heart gave a great bound. That something untoward should happen on this the first
night of his charge was too disastrous. He drew his sword and set in his lips the silver call
which depended from the chain of office the Earl had thrown about his neck when he made him
captain of his guard.

His feet hardly touched the stone stairs as he flew downwards, and wings were added to his
haste by the sounds of fear which continued to increase. In another moment he was upon the
last step of the turnpike and at the entrance of the corridor which led to the rooms of the
little Lady Margaret and Maud Lindesay.

As Sholto came rushing down the steep descent from the roof he caught sight of a dark and shaggy
beast running on all fours just turning out of the corridor, and taking the first step of the
descent towards the floor beneath. Without pausing to consider, Sholto lunged forward with
all his might, and his sword struck the fugitive quadruped behind the shoulder. He had time
to see in the pale bluish flicker of the cruisie lamp that the beast he had wounded was of
a dark colour, and that its head seemed immensely too large for its body.

Nevertheless, the thing did not fall, but ran on and vanished out of Sholto's sight. The young
man again set the silver call to his lips and blew. The next moment he could hear the soldiers
of the guard clattering upward from their hall, and he himself ran along the corridor towards
the place whence the screams of terror seemed to proceed.

CHAPTER XVI

SHOLTO CAPTURES A PRISONER OF DISTINCTION

He found that the noise came from the chamber occupied by the little Lady Margaret. When he
arrived at the door it stood open to the wall. The child was sitting up on her bed, clothed
in the white garmentry of the night. Bending over her, with her arms round the heaving shoulders
of the little girl, Sholto saw Maud Lindesay, clad in a dark, hooded mantle thrown with the
appearance of haste about her. The door of the next chamber also stood wide, and from the coverlets
cast on the floor it was obvious that its occupant had left it hastily in order to fly to her
friend's assistance.

At the sound of hasty footsteps Maud Lindesay turned about, and was instantly stricken pale
and astonished by the sight of the young man with his sword bare. She cried aloud with a stern
and defiant countenance, "Sholto MacKim, what do you here?"

And before he had time to answer, the little girl looked at him out of her friend's arms and
called out: "O Sholto, Sholto, I am so glad you are come. I woke to find such a terrible thing
looking at me out of the night. It was shaped like a great wolf, but it was rough of hide,
and had upon it a head like a man's. I was so terrified that at first I could not cry out.
But when it came nearer, and gazed at me, then I cried. Do not go away, Sholto. I am so glad,
so glad that you are here."

Maud Lindesay had again turned towards Margaret.

"Hush," she said soothingly, "it was a dream. You were frighted by a vision, by a nightmare,
by a succubus of the night. There is no beast within the castle."

"But I saw it plainly," the maid cried. "It opened the door as if it had hands--I saw it stand
there by the bed and look at me--oh, so terribly! I saw its teeth glisten and heard them snap
together!"

"Little one, be still, it was but a dream," said Sholto, untruthfully; "nevertheless I will
go and search the rest of the castle."

And with these words he went along the corridor, finding the men whom he had summoned by means
of his captain's silver call clustered upon the landing of the turret stair which communicated
with the third floor. As he glanced along the oak-panelled corridor, it seemed to Sholto that
he discerned a figure vanishing at the further end. Instantly he resolved on searching, and
summoning his men to follow, he led the way down the passage, sword in hand. As he went he
snatched the lamp from its pin on the wall, and held it in his left high above his head.

At the further end of the corridor was the door of a little chamber, and it seemed to Sholto
that the shape he had seen must have disappeared at this point.

He knocked loudly on the door with the hilt of his sword, and cried, "If any be within, open--in
the name of the Earl!"

No voice replied, and Sholto boldly set his foot against the lower panelling, and drove the
door back to the wall with a clang.

Then at sight of a something dark, wrapped in a cloak, standing motionless against the window,
the young captain of the guard elevated his lamp, and let the flicker of the light fall on
the erect figure and haughty face of a young man, who, with his hand on his hip, stood considering
the rude advance of his pursuers with a calm and questioning gaze.

It was the Earl of Douglas himself.

Sholto stood petrified at sight of him, and for a long minute could in no wise recover his
self-control nor regain any use of his tongue.

"Well," said the Earl, haughtily, "whence this unseemly uproar? What do you here, Sholto?"

Then the spirit of his father came upon the young captain of the guard. He knew that he had
only done his duty in its strictness, and he boldly answered the Earl: "Nay, my lord, were
it not for courtesy, I have more right to ask you that question. Your sister hath been frighted,
and at sound of her terror all we who were dispersed throughout the castle rushed to the spot.
As I came down the stairs from the roof at speed, I saw something like to a great wolf about
to descend the turret before me. With my sword I struck at it, and to all appearance wounded
it. It vanished, and after searching the castle I can find neither wolf nor dog. But I saw,
as it seemed, a figure enter this room, and upon opening it I find--the Earl of Douglas. That
is all I know, and I leave the matter in my lord's own hands."

The haughty look gradually disappeared from the face of the Earl as Sholto spoke.

Smilingly he dismissed the guard with a word, saying that he would inquire into the cause of
the disturbance in person, and then turned to Sholto.

"You are right," he said, "you have entirely done your duty and justified my appointment."

He paused, looked this way and that along the corridor, and continued:

"It chanced that in the tower without I could not sleep, and feeling uneasy concerning my guests,
I entered the castle by the private door and staircase which leads into the apartment corresponding
to this on the floor beneath. I was assuring myself that you were doing your duty when, being
disturbed by the sudden hubbub, and judging it needless that the men-at-arms should know of
my presence in the castle, I came in hither till the matter should have blown over. And so,
but for your good conscience and the keenness of your vision, the matter would have ended."

Sholto bowed coldly.

"But, my lord," he said, ignoring the Earl's explanation, "the matter grows more mysterious
than ever. Your sister, the little Lady Margaret, hath been grievously frighted by an appearance
like a great beast which (so she affirms) opened the door of her chamber and looked within."

"She but dreamed," said the Earl, carelessly; "such visions come from supping late."

"But, with all respect, your lordship," continued Sholto, "I also saw the appearance even as
I ran down the stairs from the roof at the noise of her crying."

"You were startled--excited, and but thought you saw."

Sholto reversed his sword, which he had held with the point towards the ground while he was
speaking with his lord the Earl.

Holding the blade midway with much deference, he presented the hilt to William Douglas.

"Will you examine the point of this sword?" he said.

The Earl came a step nearer to him and Sholto advanced the steel till it was immediately beneath
the lamp. There was blood upon the last inch or so of the blade. The Earl suddenly became violently
agitated.

"This is indeed passing strange. There is no hound within the castle nor has there been for
years. Even the presence of a lap-dog will fret my mother, so in my father's time they were
every one removed to the kennels at the further end of the isle of Thrieve, whence even their
howling cannot be heard. But let us proceed to the Lady Margaret, and on our way examine the
place where you saw the apparition."

Sholto stood aside for the Earl to pass, but with a wave of his hand the latter said courteously,
"Nay, but do you lead the way, captain of the guard."

They passed the door of the chamber where lay the Lady Sybilla. The niece of the ambassador
must have been a heavy sleeper, for there was no sound within. Opposite was the chamber of
the Earl's mother. She also appeared to be undisturbed, but the increasing deafness of the
Countess offered a complete explanation of her tranquillity.

Next the two young men came to the door of the marshal's chamber. As they were about to pass,
it opened silently, and a man-servant with a closely cropped obsequious head appeared within.
He unclosed the door no further than would permit of his exit, and then he shut it again behind
him, and stood holding the latch in his hand.

"His Excellency, being overfatigued, hath need of a little strong spirit," he said, with a
curious gobbling movement of his throat as if he himself had been either thirsty or in deadly
and overmastering fear.

The Earl ordered Sholto to wake the cellarer and bid him bring the ambassador of France that
which he required. He himself would go onward to his sister's chamber. Sholto somewhat sullenly
obeyed, for his heart was hot and angry within him. He thought that he began to see clearly
the motive of the Earl's presence in the castle. The youth was himself so deeply and hopelessly
in love with Mistress Maud Lindesay that he could not understand any other of his sex being
insensible to the charm of her beauty and myriad winsome graces.

As he went down the stairs he recalled a thousand circumstances to mind which now seemed capable
of but one explanation. It was evident that the Earl William came to visit some one by means
of the private staircase under cloud of night. Nay, more, Maud Lindesay and he might be already
privately married, and the matter kept secret on account of the pride of his family, who devised
another match for him. For though the daughter of a knight, Maud Lindesay was assuredly no
fit mate for the head of the more than regal house of Douglas. He remembered how on Sundays
and saints' days Earl William always rode to and from the kirk with his sister on one side
and Maud Lindesay on the other. That the young Earl was by no means insensible to beauty, Sholto
knew well, and he remembered his words to his own father, when he had asked to be allowed to
accompany him on his Flanders mare, that such attendance was not seemly when a man was going
a-courting.

As is always the case, he grew more and more confirmed in his ill humour, so soon as the eye
of jealousy began to view everything in the light of prepossession.

Sholto awaked the cellarer out of his crib, who, presently, with snorts of disdain and much
jangling of steel keys, drew half a tankard from a keg of spirit in the cellar on the dungeon
floor and handed it grudgingly to the captain of the guard.

"The Frenchman wants it, does he?" he growled. "Had the messenger been old Landless Jock, I
had known down whose Scottish throat it had gone, but this one is surely too young for such
tricks. See that you spill it not by the way, Master Sholto," he called out after him, as that
youth betook himself up to the chamber of the ambassador of France.

At the shut portal he paused and knocked. His hand was on the pin to enter with the tankard
as was the custom. But the door opened no more than an inch or two, and the dark face of the
cropped servitor appeared in the crevice.

"In a moment, sir," he said, and again vanished within, while a strong animal odour disengaged
itself almost like something tangible from the chinks of the doorway.

Sholto stood in astonishment with the eau de vie in his hand, till presently the door was opened
again very quickly. The form of the servitor was seen, and with a swift edging motion he came
out, drawing the door behind him as before. He held a bar of iron in his hand like the fastening
of a window, and a little breath of heat told the smith's son that though black it was still
warm from the fire.

"Take this iron," he said abruptly, "and bring it to me fully heated. I am finishing a little
device which his Excellency needs for the combat of the morrow."

The captain of the guard was nettled at the man's tone. Also he desired much to know what his
master was doing on the floor above.

"Heat it at your own nose, fellow," he said rudely; "I am captain of the castle-guard, and
must attend to my own business. Take the spirit out of my hand if you do not want it thrown
in your face."

The swarthy, bullet-headed man glared at him with eyes like burning coals, but Sholto cared
no jot for his anger. Forthwith he turned his back upon him, glad at heart to have found some
one to quarrel with, and hoping that the ambassador's squire might prove courageous and challenge
him to fight on the morrow.

But the man only replied: "I am Henriet, servant of the marshal. I bid you remember that I
shall make you live to regret these words."

CHAPTER XVII

THE LAMP IS BLOWN OUT

The door of Margaret Douglas's chamber still stood open, and Sholto found Earl William seated
upon the foot of the bed, endeavouring by every means in his power to distract his sister's
attention from her fears. Maud Lindesay, now more completely dressed than when he had first
seen her, sat on the other side of the little lady's couch. She was laughing as he entered
at some merry jest of the Earl's. And at the sound of her tinkling mirth Sholto's heart sank
within him. So soon as she caught sight of the new captain of the guard the gladness left her
face, and she became grave and sober, like a gossip long unconfessed when the holy father comes
knocking at the door.

At sight of her emotion Sholto resolved that if his fears should prove to be well founded,
he would resign his honourable office. For to abide continually in the castle, and hourly observe
Maud Lindesay's love for another, was more than his philosophy could stand.

In the meantime there was only his duty to be done. So he saluted the Earl, and in a few words
told him that which he had seen. But the soul of William Douglas was utterly devoid of suspicion,
both because he held himself so great that none could touch him, and also because, being high
of spirit and open as the sky, he read into the acts of others his own straightforwardness
and unsuspicion.

The Earl rose smilingly, declaring to Margaret that to-morrow he would hang every dog and puppy
in Galloway on the dule tree of Thrieve, whereupon the child began to plead for the life of
this cur and that other of her personal acquaintances with a tearful earnestness which told
of a sorely jangled mind.

"Well, at least," cried Earl Douglas, "I will not have such brutes prowling about my castle
of Thrieve even in my sister's dreams. Captain Sholto, do you station a man of your guard in
the angle of the staircase where it looks along each corridor. Pick out your prettiest cross-bowmen,
for it were not seemly that my guests should be disturbed by the rude shots and villanous reek
of the fusil."

Sholto bowed stiffly and waited the further pleasure of his master. Then the two young men
went out without Maud Lindesay having uttered a word, or manifested the least surprise at the
advancement which had befallen the heir of the master armourer of Carlinwark.

As soon as the door had closed upon the two maidens, the Earl turned a face suddenly grave
and earnest on his young captain of the guard. She
further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut up, listen
with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally, with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good humor, skewered thousand
humorous blunders, always within the limits not just of decency,
but the more delicate manners, and enjoyed and rejoiced at the meeting,
be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon the proposed Condesa
Gardens and all go home to tea. Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was
glad that he had heard discreet, scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it
was getting into the big trot world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her
house in his car. Then, from the house of the Countess to Don Braulio
had a few steps to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the
four in the same Landau open that night was an intimate gathering
to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for the
elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored.

Is admirable, therefore, a gathering, like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people.
The woman who manages to have a chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many
of these businesses will be recognized worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon
gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated after and loved and otherwise other shades and hues of honey.

Women
usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed in this
way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not destroying each other
and are harmonized nicely. The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way, his poet wanted another,
and these feelings, own and exclusive of women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential
spirit where there is no difference of woman and man of principle neutral, before you purchase
determination sexual.

I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and even pretty woman, manages
to put into this friendship, completely oblivious all feel love.

The
first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita
and the Count had not secrets. Everything is trusted. The Earl looked
at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips for your difficulties.


The heart of Sholto was instantly melted, more by her looks than by her words, though deep
within him he had still an angry feeling that he was being played with. All the same, and in
spite of his resolves, the eyeshot from under those dark and sweeping lashes did its usual
and deadly work.

"I did not know that aught which might befall me could be anything to Mistress Maud Lindesay,"
said Sholto, with the last shreds of dignity in his voice.

"I said not to me, but to us," she corrected, smiling; "but tell me what think you of this
appearance which has so startled our Margaret. Was it ghost or goblin or dream of the night?
We have never had either witch or warlock about the house of Thrieve since the old Abbot Gawain
laid the ghost of Archibald the Grim with four-and-forty masses, said without ever breaking
his fast, down there in the castle chapel."

"Nay, ask me not," answered Sholto, "I am little skilled in matters spiritual. I should try
sword point and arrowhead on such gentry, and if these do them no harm, why then I think they
will not distress me much."

But all the same he said nothing to the girl about the red blood on his sword or the splashed
gouts on the steps of the staircase.

He followed Maud Lindesay into her chamber, and being arrived there, lifted couch and all in
his arms, with an ease born of long apprenticeship to the forehammer. The girl regarded him
with admiration which she was careful not to dissemble.

"You are very strong," she said. Then, after a pause, she added, "Margaret and I like strong men."

The heart of the youth was glad within him, thus to be called a man, even though he kept saying
over and over to himself: "She means it not! She means it not! She loves the Earl! I know well
she loves the Earl!"

Maud Lindesay paused a moment before the chamber door of her little charge, finger on lip,
listening.

"She sleeps--go quietly," she whispered, holding the door open for him. He set down the bed
where she showed him--by the side of the small slumbering figure of the Maid of Galloway.

Then he went softly to the door. The girl followed him. "You will not be far away," she said
doubtfully and with a perilous sort of humility, "if this dreadful thing should come back again?
I--that is we, would feel safer if we knew that you--that any one strong and brave was near
at hand."

Then the heart of Sholto broke out in quick anger.

"Deceive me not," he cried, "I know well that the Earl loves you, and that you love him in return."

"Well, indeed, were it for my lord Earl if he loved as honest a woman," said Maud Lindesay,
pouting disdainfully. "But what is such a matter, yea or nay, to you?"

"It is all life and happiness to me," said Sholto, earnestly. "Ah, do not go--stay a moment.
I shall never sleep this night if you go without giving me an answer."

"Then," said the girl, "you will be the more in the line of your duty, which allows not much
sleep o' nights. You are but a silly, petulant boy for all your fine captaincy. I wish it had
been Landless Jock. He would never have vexed me with foolish questions at such a time."

"But I love you, and I demand an answer," cried Sholto, fuming. "Do you love the Earl?"

"What do you think yourself now?" she said, looking up at him with an inimitable slyness, and
pronouncing her words so as to imitate the broad simplicity of countryside speech.

Sholto vented a short gasp or inarticulate snort of anger, at which Maud Lindesay started back
with affected terror.

"Do not fright a poor maid," she said. "Will you put me in the castle dungeon if I do not answer?
Tell me exactly what you want me to say, and I will say it, most mighty captain."

And she made him the prettiest little courtesy, turning at the same time her eyes in mock humility
on the ground.

"Oh, Maud Lindesay," said Sholto, with a little conflicting sob in his throat, ill becoming
so noted a warrior as the captain of the castle-guard of the Black Douglas, "if you knew how
I loved you, you would not treat me thus."

The girl came nearer to him and laid a white and gentle hand on the sleeve of his blue archer's
coat.

"Nay, lad," she said more soberly, lifting a finger to his face, "surely you are no milksop
to mind how a girl flouts you. Love the Earl--say you? Well, is it not our duty to the bread
we eat? Is he not worthy? Is he not the head of our house?"

"Cheat me not with words. The Earl loves you," said Sholto, lifting his head haughtily out
of her reach. (To have one's chin pushed this way and that by a girl's forefinger, and as it
were considered critically from various points of view, may be pleasant, but it interferes
most seriously with dignity.)

"He may, indeed," drolled the minx, "one can never tell. But he has never said so. He is perhaps
afraid, being born without the self-conceit of some people--archers of the guard, fledgling
captains, and such-like gentrice."

"Do you love him?" reiterated Sholto, determinedly.

"I will tell you for that gold buckle," said Maud, calmly pointing with her finger.

Instantly Sholto pulled the cap from his head, undid the pin of the archery prize, and thrust
it into his wicked sweetheart's hands.

She received it with a little cry of joy, then she pressed it to her lips. Sholto, rejoicing
at heart, moved a step nearer to her. But, in spite of her arch delight, she was on the alert,
for she retreated deftly and featly within the chamber door of the Fair Maid of Galloway. There
was still more mirthful wickedness in her eyes.

"Love the Earl?--Of course I do. Indeed, I doat upon him," she said. "How I shall love this
buckle, just because his hand gave it to you!"

And with that she shut to the door.

Sholto, in act to advance, stood a moment poised on one foot like a goose. Then with a heart
blazing with anger, and one of the first oaths that had ever passed his lips, he turned on
his heel and strode away.

"I will never think of her again--I will never see her. I will go to France and perish in battle.
I will throw me in the castle pool. I will--"

So the poor lad retreated, muttering hot and angry words, all his heart sore within him because
of the cruelty of this girl.

But he had not proceeded twenty steps along the corridor, when he heard the door softly open
and a low voice whispered, "Sholto! Sholto! I want you, Sholto!"

He bent his brows and strode manfully on as if he had not heard a word.

"Sholto!--dear Sholto! Do not go, I need you."

Against his will he turned, and, seeing the head of Maud Lindesay, her pouting lips and beckoning
finger, he went sulkily back.

"Well?" he said, with the stern curtness of a military commander, as he stood before her.

She held the iron lamp in her hand. The wick had fallen aside and was now wasting itself in
a broad, unequal yellow flame. The maid of honour looked at it in perplexity, knitting her
pretty brows in a mock frown.

"It burned me as I was ordering my hair," she said. "I cannot blow it out. I dare not. Will
you--will you blow it out for me, Captain Sholto?"

She spoke with a sweet childlike humility.

And she held the lamp up so that the iron handle was almost touching her soft cheek. There
was a dancing challenge in her dark eyes and her lips smiled dangerously red. She could not,
of course, have known that the light made her look so beautiful, or she would have been more
careful.

Sholto stood still a moment, at wrestle with himself, trying to conquer his dignity, and to
retain his attitude of stern disapproval.

But the girl swept her lashes up towards him, dropped them again dark as night upon her cheek,
and anon looked a second time at him.

"I am sorry," she said, more than ever like a child. "Forgive me, and--the lamp is so hot."

Now Sholto was young and inexperienced, but he was not quite a fool. He stooped and blew out
the light, and the next moment his lips rested upon other lips which, as it had been unconsciously,
resigned their soft sweetness to his will.

Then the door closed, and he heard the click of the lock as the bolts were shot from within.
The gallery ran round and round about him like a clacking wheel. His heart beat tumultuously,
and there was a strange humming sound in his ears.

The captain of the guard stumbled half distracted down the turret stair.

The old world had been destroyed in a moment and he was walking in a new, where perpetual roses
bloomed and the spring birds sang for evermore. He knew not, this poor foolish Sholto, that
he had much to learn ere he should know all the tricks and stratagems of this most naughty
and prettily disdainful minx, Mistress Maud Lindesay.

But for that night at least he thought he knew her heart and soul, which made him just as happy.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE MORNING LIGHT

In the morning Sholto MacKim had other views of it. Even when at last he was relieved from
duty he never closed an eye. The blowing out of the lamp had turned his ideas and hopes all
topsy-turvy. His heart sang loud and turbulent within him. He had kissed other girls indeed
before at kirns and country dances. He laughed triumphantly within him at the difference. They
had run into corners and screamed and struggled, and held up ineffectual hands. And when his
lips did reach their goal, it was generally upon the bridge of a nose or a tip of an ear. He
could not remember any especial pleasure accompanying the rite.

But this! The bolt of an arbalast could not have given him a more instant or tremendous shock.
His nerves still quivered responsive to the tremulous yielding of the lips he had touched for
a moment in the dark of the doorway. He felt that never could he be the same man he had been
before. Deep in his heart he laughed at the thought.

And then again, with a quick revulsion, the return wave came upon him. "How, if she be as untouched
as her beauty is fresh, has she learned that skill in caressing?"

He paused to think the matter over.

"I remember my father saying that a wise man should always mistrust a girl who kisses overwell."

Then again his better self would reassert itself.

"No," he would argue, tramping up and down the corridor, wheeling in the short bounds of the
turnpike head, and again returning upon his own footsteps, "why should I belie her? She is
as pure as the air--only, of course, she is different to all others. She speaks differently;
her eyes are different, her hair, her hands--why should she not be different also in this?"

But when Maud Lindesay met Sholto in the morning, coming suddenly upon him as he stood, with
a pale face and dark rings of sleeplessness about his eyes, as he looked meditatively out upon
the broad river and the blue smoke of the morning campfires, there was yet another difference
to be revealed to him. He had expected that, like others, she would be confused and bashful
meeting him thus in the daylight, after--well, after the volcanic extinguishing of the lamp.

But there she stood, dainty and calm under the morning sunshine, in fresh clean gown of lace
and varied whiteness, her face grave as a benediction, her eyes deep and cool like the water
of the castle well.

Sholto started violently at sight of her, recovered himself, and eagerly held out both his hands.

"Maud," he said hoarsely, and then again, in a lower tone, "sweetest Maud."

But pretty Mistress Lindesay only gazed at him with a certain reserved and grave surprise,
looking him straight in the face and completely ignoring his outstretched hands.

"Captain Sholto," she said steadily and calmly, "the Lady Margaret desires to see you and to
thank you for your last night's care and watchfulness. Will you do me the honour to follow
me to her chamber?"

There was no yielding softness about this maiden of the morning hours, no conscious droop and
a swift uplifting of penitent eyelids, no lingering glances out of love-weighted eyes. A brisk
and practical little lady rather, her feet pattering most purposefully along the flagged passages
and skipping faster than even Sholto could follow her. But at the top of the second stairs
he was overquick for her. By taking the narrow edges of the steps he reached the landing level
with his mistress.

His desire was to put out his hand to circle her lithe waist, for nothing is so certainly reproductive
of its own species as a first kiss. But he had reckoned without the lady's mutual intent and
favour, which in matters of this kind are proverbially important. Mistress Maud eluded him,
without appearing to do so, and stood farther off, safely poised for flight, looking down at
him with cold, reproachful eyes.

"Maud Lindesay, have you forgotten last night and the lamp?" he asked indignantly.

"What may you mean, Captain Sholto?" she said, with wonderment in her tone, "Margaret and I
never use lamps. Candles are so much safer, especially at night."

CHAPTER XIX

LA JOYEUSE BAITS HER HOOK

On the morrow, the ambassador of France being confined to his room with a slight quinsy caught
from the marshy nature of the environment of Thrieve, the Earl escorted the Lady Sybilla to
the field of the tourney, where, as Queen of Beauty, her presence could not be dispensed with.

The Maid Margaret, the Earl's sister, remained also in the castle, not having yet recovered
from her fright of the preceding evening.

With her was Maud Lindesay and her mother--"the Auld Leddy," as she was called throughout all
the wide dominions of her son.

In spite of his weariness Sholto led his archer guard in person to the field of the tournament.
For this day was the day of the High Sport, and many lances would be splintered, and often
would the commonalty need to be scourged from the barriers.

But ere he went Sholto summoned two of the staunchest fellows of his company, Andro, called
the Penman, and his brother John. Then, having posted them at either end of the corridor in
which were the chambers occupied by the two girls, he laid a straight charge, and a heavy,
upon them.

"On your heads be it if you fail, or let one soul pass," he said. "Stand ready with your hands
on the wheel of your cross-bows, and if any man come hither, challenge him to stand, and bid
him return the way he came. But if any dog or thing running on four feet ascend or descend
the stair, make no sound, ask no question, cry no warning, but whang the steel bolt through
his ribs, in at one side and out at the other."

Then Andro the Penman and his brother John, being silent capable fellows, said nothing, but
spat on their hands, smiled at each other well pleased, and made the wheels of their cross-bows
sing a clear whirring note.

"I would not like to be that dog--" said Andro the Swarthy.

"Whose foul carcase I pray God to send speedily," echoed John the Blond.

Sholto had hoped that whilst he was at the guard-setting, he might have had occasion to see
once more the tantalising mischief-maker whom he yet loved with all his heart, in spite of,
or perhaps because of, the distraction to which she continually reduced his spirit by means
of her manifold and incalculable contrarieties.

Nevertheless, it was with an easier heart that Sholto wended his way out of the castle yett,
all arrayed in the new suit of armour his lord had sent him. It was made of chain of the finest,
composed of many rings set alternately thick and thin, and the whole was flexible as the deer
leather which he wore underneath it. Over this a doublet of blue silk carried the Lion of Galloway
done in white upon it, and all the cerulean of the ground was dotted over with the Douglas
heart. But, greatest joy of all, there was brought to him by command of the Earl a suitable
horse, not heavily armed like a charger for the tilt, but light of foot, and answering easily
to the hand. Blue and red were the silken housings, fringed with long silver lace, through
which could be seen here and there as the wind blew the sheen of the glossy skin. The buckles
and bits were also of massive silver, and at sight of them the cup of Sholto's happiness was
full. For a space, as he gazed upon his steed, he forgot even Maud Lindesay.

Then when he was mounted and out upon the green, waiting for the coming forth of his lord,
what delight it was to feel the noble dark grey answer to each touch of the rein, obeying his
master's thought more than the strength of his wrist or the prick of his heel.

As he waited there, his predecessor in office, old Sir John of Abernethy, Landless Jock as
he was nicknamed, came out from the main doorway. He carried a gleaming headpiece from which
the blue feather of the Douglas fell over his arm half-way to the ground. On its front was
a lion crest which ramped among golden fleur-de-lys. The old man held it up for Sholto to take.

"Hae," he said in a surly tone, "this is his lordship's new helmet just brought as a present
frae the Dauphin of France. So he has cast off the well-tried one, and with it also the auld
servant that hath served him these many years."

"Nay, Sir John," said Sholto, with courtesy, taking the helmet which it was his duty as his
master's esquire to carry before him on a velvet-covered placque, "nay--well has the good servant
deserved his rest, and to take his ease. The young to the broil and the moil, the old to the
inglenook and the cup of wine beneath the shade."

"Ah, lad, I envy ye not, think not that of puir Landless Jock," said the mollified old man,
sadly shaking his head; "I also have tried the new office, the shining armour, and felt the
words of command rise proudly in the throat. I envy you not, though your advancement hath been
sudden--and well--for my own son John I had hoped, though indeed the loon is paper backed and
feckless. Everyone, even the most difficult, admired his ingenuity to match its beauty, and celebrated
the natural simplicity of his manner, his is not learned but innate elegance and their spontaneous
Andalusian charm. Although the intoxication of success Beatriz tended to talk too much, I knew
restraint and to not be tempered by brash and talkative. Through their thoughtful prudence was therefore
unbeatable.

Ines, for style, was also very good. His Olympic serenity, its calm divine, not abandoned for a moment.
In luxury and splendor of this house, previously unknown for her, she felt, as his sister, who
rose to head something like vapors of champagne, and without the rustic jungle indifference,
and without the affected contempt of vain and proud, not wondered about anything, showing that
he understood and believed it all, but was not foreign to your condition. In short: Ines was in
the party as it might have been a real princess, for whom all these festivities were a proper
element, or rather, were below the item that she was breathing and
that his soul alive.

The serenity of Agnes might have passed for pride if it were not softened by a gentle angelic
perhaps been confused with apathy foolish, if in the light of her eyes, clear and profound
at the same time, intelligence will not fire. Who fixed his gaze on that of she believed to
penetrate through magical crystals within an enchanted palace filled mystery, or imagined sinking
to the bottom of clear lake, beautiful village and vague creations, whose divine contours could
not quite understand intently, because the most Sigh slight aura
of pure curling waves, and these, without loss in clarity or purity
every image faded and vanished.

As for Don Braulio, must be confessed he was quite cramped and out of place in such gatherings.

We
know that it was very escamón, as they say on their land. So while disguised with ability, was
with the beard on his shoulder and fingers seemed guests. He was smart, but boasted ladino,
and came to be about malicious.

He was therefore one of the party very different concept of Dona Beatriz had formed.

Although Don Braulio had lived mostly in places and small towns of the province, and but in Seville,
during the first years of their marriage, had been retiradísimo without never deal with what
they call the great world, he conceived and understood him more beautiful than now presented
itself. He hesitated, therefore, that the great world was pure, but Fake I imitate him, as is
imitation gold ormolu.

And in this way was beyond what is reasonable and made judgments adventurous, understanding all
the grotesque and Trabuco things.

Los Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while the gathering was subject of true
worth and class, the concept was a bit cloudy that Don Braulio masters of the house had to
project a certain dark shadow on the house that attended.

In almost no one thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence,
one just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet, distinguished, elegant, sweet
and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others, Don Braulio, going
from ready on this occasion, made a settlement there in his mind,
and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in that house on paper
than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering their excellent
qualities, and without fear of anything on this side, almost intimate with him.

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy, which of course treated with the utmost confidence the two
sisters, who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners
as being somewhat short-sighted, and began to Beatrice in verse and
prose infinite compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and looked like
a Don Juan Tenorio needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which
had decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal he had of the great world, the fact was that the
house of the Counts of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where
any other in place, would have been thrilled to be admitted.

I could think Don Braulio it wanted to Rosita and her husband could denigrate, in the depths of his
severe awareness, gathering with their commentators, but to the world, under the conditions
of this life we ​​live, could not resist, bypassing ferret, by jealous and tyrant his wife to continue
going to that gathering.

Don Braulio would not also include his wife with sermons or severely, or mandates. She wanted
only love for love. His plan was laid out.

Could not and should oppose Beatriz treated Rosita and to strengthen bonds of friendship with her.
Conveníale finally give notice to his wife about the moral value of Rosita, to not deceive, but
hide then his anger if his wife was treating. And this was Don Braulio.

Some might think that Don Braulio did wrong and I was weak in character. Here we do not give
as paragon of strength. I paint as it is.

We will say, however, as fertilizer, which are very rare Cato. All are reported behavior the
servants they will receive at home, and one of those people they
are dealing with and intimate with his wife and daughters, provided
that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.

In short, and with tolerance, and with the blessing of Don Braulio,
and Ines Beatriz, since that night on, kept going frequently to socialize
Countess San Teodulo and being his most precious and attractive ornaments.

Rosita

also sometimes carried them in his company, and the theater, and to the Gardens, and the walk, and
eat at home.

Don Braulio, as his duties or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment
and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him.

XI

It was months since the night he first had appeared in the gathering of the Countess Don Braulio,
his wife and sister.

All the wise reflections of Don Braulio his wife had been in vain.

Beatriz liked to shine in society, and to this consideration was
of little importance to the advice of its husband.

Seemed to him perhaps exaggerated musings of a man and elder.

Do not know her that deep down Don Braulio had some reason to argue
that the gathering of San Teódulo was not the truly great world, it
was the legitimate good tone, but could bring her husband this great
world?

Certainly not.

Was, then, abandon it to go anywhere; had follow enclosed within
four walls in the prime of his youth, and to condemn Inesita same
punishment because it was a perfect society, in every way, where to
apply?

In various discussions that took Beatrice and her husband about this business, always made silence
and emerged victorious.

His arguments were, indeed, difficult to refute. For all had an answer.

- The Countess of San Teódulo has a bad reputation - said Don Braulio.

- It is a calumny - answered Beatrice.

- What if what is said against it is founded?

- So ... What will you do? A well that is not contagious.

- I concede that not give the spread when there is no predisposition to do so, but unless you
grant me that transcends the bad reputation, that the gossip is not only fattening who deserves
it, but people around who deserve it, even if they are not complicit
own.

- That may be true, but, by dint of wanting to prove much, proves
nothing.

If every woman virtuous, with only dealt with one that is not exposed to confuse and equate
their behavior with her friend, it is best not dealt with anyone,
living as in the tomb.

What? Am I going to ask for a certificate under the women you speak? You say that the San Teodulo
big world is not true. Will there be more virtue in women's real big world? Do not speak of them as
we talk about my friend? Well, if you go down, if you intend I deal with women's clerk, the janitor
or the clerk, where do you infer I you find in them all the severity
of Lucretia?

Are you perhaps related virtue in the humble people? Honesty Is the exclusive privilege of
needy females? Kid yourself, Braulio; what you want is to live here so alone and in Seville, facts
about ferrets, without dealing with a soul.

As for me I resign ... to give you taste, but well know it is very hard ... I'm still young ...
You, busy in your Registry and your studies, just follow me. Do I have to live in eternal soliloquy?
And then, poor Inesita ... not has, like me, a husband who ay who love to please, why should
it be victim of that whim of yours?

Such arguments wielded invincible power in the soul of Don Braulio. Nothing was that answer them,
and was silent.

Beatriz, seeing him silent and nearly exhausted, gave him a loving look, she smiled sweetly
I was a baby, and Don Braulio had to undergo. Not only was then able to prohibit to go to the
gathering of the San Teódulo, but had no right to oppose any madness that occurred to his wife.

There,
in the interior of his soul, Don Braulio gave reason at all, not merely by the professed affection
for him, but for the making of his intellect and the condition and character their ideas.

"What right do I have - he said to himself - so that this beautiful woman, so discreet, so funny
so on purpose to be the charm and wonder of those who try to be buried alive in punishment for
loving me and took me for a husband?

What right do I have to impose also the same penalty on her pretty sister, younger still and
not least in order to look the world? So it's ridiculous that I please be virtuous society they
frequent. Where I find it? Society is not virtuous or vicious. What are the people who compose it.
And the vice is more common virtue. "

Sometimes thought Don Braulio:

"If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make
fun of me ... and with good reason. I would distrust samples not I honor and honor to my life partner.
Would believe that the suspected light or easily. My wife would exert against a tyrannical act, which
would also have something libelous. She would then have reason to stop loving me ... to hate
... maybe to despise. "

The mere assumption that his wife came to not love him, hate him or despise him ... waving nerves
unhappy. He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing
tempest of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.

Ines
Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita everywhere, and not failed to
seize it. Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently. Then I used to feel
the most opposite emotions. Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by
him.

The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him. Recognized tired,
melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose
clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior
to what in his own being noticed and appreciated, but they were at
the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable and more
easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner, youth,
physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment, lightness
and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy his
wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.

Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was
deemed inadequate. The waltz was his despair. It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful,
lovely waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by
young people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and
strong for all this.

Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy. Back in his conscience, yet
secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman,
he would be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man
who had such skills.

So he gave the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul,
if the overnight he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz,
ride, fence, fight, hunting and cycles.

Don Braulio just wanted to believe in spiritualism of women when they often prefer to the above
skills other manly virtues, but even so, what evidence there given
him these other virtues?

What battle was won? What poem was written? What speech was delivered in Parliament? How much
money was earned in the stock market in the game or business? What picture was painted? What
statue was carved? What brand system philosophy had created in his mind? What new machine or contrivance
had given the industry human?

Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes,
which instilled shame. He was unnerved and prostrate.

He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet. Appeared to him worthy of
a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks
and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich, to award merit, skill,
poetry, science and daring with a sweet look of love. Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn
the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping, that was a miserable
possessor.

Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted to all men of the party of her friend. His joy was talkative,
his speech, delightful. Said a thousand jokes, subtle and shrewd, to be applauded and loved even
more for the accent in Seville with that said, the term its face, the brightness of his eyes and
the fresh red lips and white, the same and clenched teeth, including soft gushing, Argentina
and easy and spontaneous sympathetic word. She knew also instill love and respect. They who covet
her beauty the fenced reverent.

So the poet Arthur stopped too close and contented himself with bend the lens for a better
view.
In contemplating this pleasant emotions born of Don Braulio. So admired
woman and coveted was his. Which, perhaps, or safe and perhaps inspire
many men love of worth, which at a glance, with a slight favor, could
have been filled with pride and happiness, just loved him, and he
just kept all the tenderness of his heart, and all the treasure of
beauty, as desired and commended.

Don Braulio, however, was one of
those creatures who all thrill hard grata little, who suddenly comes
the sad thought that poisons such emotion.

"But why - they said -
I'm the one she loves, the only happy, the owner of the treasure,
that holds the key to your heart? By chance, first, for having found
a place where no one had that competed with me. And then, of a contract
set by religion: by a moral, legal and religious, that drives him
to love me in an exclusive manner. If the latter, one or the other
was her husband, rather than be me, do not you want as I want? Who
knows? Perhaps you would like more. "

Then he remembered Don Braulio
and analyzed in his mind all touch, every word of love, any sign of
sympathy, and it struggled to find what can only come from love, away
duty which, coupled with kindness and compassion even, perhaps appropriate.


[Footnote 1: The pet name of the deepest dungeon of Castle Thrieve, yet extant and plain to
be seen by all.]

"Yes, indeed, and most properly," cried another voice, which made his very heart flutter, "and
set his new captain of the guard a-dangle in the midst, decked out from head to foot in peacocks'
feathers."

Sholto was very angry, for like a boy he took not chaffing lightly, and had neither the harshness
of hide which can endure the rasping of a woman's tongue, nor the quickness of speech to give
her the counter retort.

So he cast the reins of his horse to a stable varlet and stamped indoors, carrying his master's
helmet to the armoury. Then still without speech to any he brushed hastily up the stairs towards
the upper floor, which he had set Andro the Penman and his brother to guard.

At the turning of the staircase David Douglas, the Earl's brother, stopped him. Sholto moved
in salute and would have passed by.

But David detained him with an impetuous hand.

"What is this?" he said; "you have set two archers on the stairs who have shot and almost killed
the ambassador's two servants, Poitou the man-at-arms, and Henriet the clerk, just because
they wished to take the air upon the roof. Nay, even when I would have visited my sister, I
was not permitted--'None passes here save the Earl himself, till our captain takes his orders
off us!' That was the word they spoke. Was ever the like done in the castle of Thrieve to a
Master of Douglas before?"

"I am sorry, my Lord David," said Sholto, respectfully, "but there were matters within the
knowledge of the Earl which caused him to lay this heavy charge upon me."

"Well," said the lad, quickly relenting, "let us go and see Margaret now. She must have been
lonely all this fair day of summer."

But Sholto smiled, well pleased, thinking of Maud Lindesay.

"I would that I had a lifetime of such loneliness as Margaret's hath been this day," he said
to himself.

At the turning of the stair they were stayed, for there, his foot advanced, his bow ready to
deliver its steel bolt at the clicking of a trigger, stood Andro the Swarthy.

From his stance he commanded the stair and could see along the corridor as well.

David Douglas caught his elbow on something which stood a few inches out of the oaken panelling
of the turnpike wall. He tried to pull it out. It was the steel quarrel of a cross-bow wedged
firmly into the wood and masonry. He cried: "Whence came this? Have you been murdering any
other honest men?"

The archer stood silent, glancing this way and that like a sentinel on duty. The two young
men went on up the stair.

As their feet were approaching the sixth step, a sudden word came from the Penman like a bolt
from his bow.

"Halt!" he cried, and they heard the gur-r-r-r of his steel ratchet.

Sholto smiled, for he knew the nature of the man.

"It is I, your captain," he said. "You have done your duty well, Andro the Penman. Now get
down to your dinner. But first give an account of your adventures."

"Do you relieve us from our charge?" said the archer, with his bow still at the ready.

"Certainly," quoth Sholto.

"Come, Jock, we are eased," cried Andro the Swarthy up the stair, and he slid the steel bolt
out of its grip with a little click; "faith, my belly is toom as a last year's beef barrel."

"Did any come hither to vex you?" asked Sholto.

"Not to speak of," said the archer; "there were, indeed, two varlets of the Frenchmen, and
as they would not take a bidding to stand, I had perforce to send a quarrel buzzing past their
lugs into the wall. You can see it there behind you."

"Rascal," cried David Douglas, indignantly, "you do not say that first of all you shot it through
the arm of the poor clerk Henriet."

"It is like enough," said Andro, coolly, "if his arm were in the way."

Then came a voice down the stairs from above.

"And the wretches would neither let any come to visit us nor yet permit us to go into the hall
that we might speak with our gossips."

"How should we be responsible with our lives for the lasses if we had let them gad about?"
said Andro, preparing to salute and take himself off.

At this moment the little maid and her elder companion came forward meekly and kneeled down
before Sholto.

"We are your humble prisoners," said Maud Lindesay, "and we know that our offences against
your highness are most heinous; but why should you starve us to death? Burn us or hang us,--we
will bear the extreme penalty of the law gladly,--but torture is not for women. For dear pity's
sake, a bite of bread. We have had nothing to eat all day, except two lace kerchiefs and a
neck riband."

"Lord of Heaven," cried Sholto, swinging on his heel and darting down towards the kitchen,
"what a fool unutterable I am!"

CHAPTER XXI

THE BAILIES OF DUMFRIES

The combat of the third day was, by the will of the Earl, to be of a peculiar kind. It was
the custom at that time for the mêlée to be fought between an equal number of knights in open
lists, each being at liberty to carry assistance to his friends as soon as he had disposed
of his own man. On this occasion, however, the fight was to be between three knights with their
several squires on the one side, and an equal number of knights and squires on the other.

As the combat of the previous day had decided, young James Douglas of Avondale was to lead
one party, being the successful tilter of the day of single combat, while the Earl himself
was to head the other.

The chances of battle must be borne, and whatever happened in the shock of fight was to be
endured without complaint. But no blow was to be struck at either knight or squire in any way
disabled by wound.

To Sholto's great and manifest joy the Earl, his master, chose the new captain of his guard
to support him in the fray, and told him to make choice of the best battle-axe and sword he
could find, as well as to provide himself with the shield which most suited the strength of
his left arm.

"By your permission I will ask my father," said Sholto.

"He also fights on our side as the squire of Alan Fleming," said the Earl; "if Laurence had
not been a monk, he might have made a third MacKim."

Then was Sholto's heart high and uplifted within him, to think of the victory he would achieve
over his brother less than two days after they had parted, and he hastened off to choose his
arms under the direction of his father.

The party of James of Avondale consisted of his brother William and young John Lauder, called
Lauder of the Bass. These three had already entered their pavilion to accoutre themselves for
the combat when a trumpet announced the arrival from the castle of the ambassador of France,
who, being recovered from his sickness, had come in haste to see the fighting of the last and
greatest day of the tourney.

As soon as he heard the wager of battle the marshal cried: "I also will strike a blow this
day for the honour of France. My quinsy has altogether left me, and my blood flows strong after
the rest. I will take part with James of Avondale."

And, without waiting to be asked, he went off followed by his servant Poitou towards the pavilion
of the Avondale trio.

Now as the Marshal de Retz was the chief guest, it was impossible for James of Avondale to
refuse his offer. But there was anger and blasphemy in his heart, for he knew not what the
Frenchman could do, and though he had undoubtedly been a gallant knight in his day, yet in
these matters (as James Douglas whispered to his brother) a week's steady practice is worth
a lifetime of theory. Still there was nothing for the brothers from Douglasdale but to make
the best of their bargain. The person most deserving of pity, however, was the young laird
of the Bass, who, being thus dispossessed, went out to the back of the lists and actually shed
tears, being little more than a boy, and none looking on to see him.

Then he came back hastily, and besought James of Douglas to let him fight as his squire, saying
that as he had never taken up the knighthood which had been bestowed on him by the Earl for
his journey to France, there could be nothing irregular in his fighting once more as a simple
esquire. And thus, after an appeal to the Earl himself, it was arranged, much to John Lauder's
content.

For his third knight the Douglas had made choice of his cousin Hugh, younger brother of his
two opponents, and at that William and James of Avondale shook their heads.

"He pushes a good tree, our Hughie," said James. "If he comes at you, Will, mind that trick
of swerving that he hath. Aim at his right gauntlet, and you will hit his shield."

The conflict on the Boat Croft differed much from the chivalrous encounters of an earlier time
and a richer country. And of this more anon.

It chanced that on the borders of the crowd which that day begirt the great enclosure of the
lists two burgesses of Dumfries stood on tiptoe,--to wit, Robert Semple, merchant dealing in
cloth and wool, and Ninian Halliburton, the brother of Barbara, wife of Malise MacKim, master
armourer, whose trade was only conditioned by the amount of capital he could find to lay out
and the probability he had of disposing of his purchase within a reasonable time.

It would give an entirely erroneous impression of the state of Scotland in 1440 if the sayings
and doings of the wise and shrewd burghers of the towns of Scotland were left wholly without
a chronicler. The burghs of Scotland were at once the cradles and strongholds of liberty. They
were not subject to the great nobles. They looked with jealousy on all encroachments on their
liberties, and had sharp swords wherewith to enforce their objection. They had been endowed
with privileges by the wise and politic kings of Scotland, from William the Lion down to James
the First, of late worthy memory. For they were the best bulwark of the central authority against
the power of the great nobles of the provinces.

Now Robert Semple and Ninian Halliburton were two worthy citizens of Dumfries, men of respectability,
well provided for by the success of their trade and the saving nature of their wives. They
had come westward to the Thrieve for two purposes: to deliver a large consignment of goods
and gear, foreign provisions and fruits, to the controller of the Earl's household, and to
receive payment therefor, partly in money and partly in the wool and cattle; hides and tallow,
which have been the staple products of Galloway throughout her generations.

Their further purposes and intents in venturing so far west of the safe precincts of their
burgh of Dumfries may be gathered from their conversation hereinafter to be reported.

Ninian Halliburton was a rosy-faced, clean-shaven man, with a habit of constantly pursing out
his lips and half closing his eyes, as if he were sagely deciding on the advisability of some
doubtful bargain. His companion, Robert Semple, had a similar look of shrewdness, but added
to it his face bore also the imprint of a sly and lurking humour not unlike that of the master
armourer himself. In time bygone he had kept his terms at the college of Saint Andrews, where
you may find on the list of graduates the name of Robertus Semple, written by the foundational
hand of Bishop Henry Wardlaw himself. And upon his body, as the Bailie of Dumfries would often
feelingly recall, he bore the memory, if not the marks, of the disciplining of Henry Ogilvy,
Master in Arts--a wholesome custom, too much neglected by the present regents of the college,
as he would add.

"This is an excellent affair for us," said Ninian Halliburton, standing with his hands folded
placidly over his ample stomach, only occasionally allowing them to wander in order to feel
and approve the pile of the brown velvet out of which the sober gown was constructed. "A good
thing for us, I say, that there are great lords like the Earl of Douglas to keep up the expense
of such days as this."

"It were still better," answered his companion, dryly, "if the great nobles would pay poor
merchants according to their promises, instead of threatening them with the dule tree if they
so much as venture to ask for their money. Neither you nor I, Bailie, can buy in the lowlands
of Holland without a goodly provision of the broad gold pieces that are so hard to drag from
the nobles of Scotland."

The rosy-gilled Bailie of Dumfries looked up at his friend with a quick expression of mingled
hope and anxiety.

"Does the Earl o' Douglas owe you ony siller?" he asked in a hushed whisper, "for if he does,
I am willing to take over the debt--for a consideration."

"Nay," said Semple, "I only wish he did. The Douglases of the Black were never ill debtors.
They keep their hand in every man's meal ark, but as they are easy in taking, they are also
quick in paying."

"Siller in hand is the greatest virtue of a buyer," said the Bailie, with unction. "But, Robert
Semple, though I was willing to oblige ye as a friend by taking over your debt, I'll no deny
that ye gied me a fricht. For hae I no this day delivered to the bursar o' the castle o' Thrieve
sax bales o' pepper and three o' the best spice, besides much cumin, alum, ginger, seat-well,
almonds, rice, figs, raisins, and other sic thing. Moreover, there is owing to me, for wine
and vinegar, mair than twa hunder pound. Was that no enough to gar me tak a 'dwam' when ye
spoke o' the great nobles no payin'!"

"I would that all our outlying monies were as safe," said Semple; "but here come the knights
and squires forth from their tents. Tell me, Ninian, which o' the lads are your sister's sons."

"There is but one o' the esquires that is Barbara Halliburton's son," answered the Bailie;
"the ither is her ain man--and a great ram-stam, unbiddable, unhallowed deevil he is--Guid
forbid that I should say as muckle to his face!"

CHAPTER XXII

WAGER OF BATTLE

The knights had moved slowly out from their pavilions on either side, and now stood waiting
the order to charge. My Lord Maxwell sat by the side of the Lady Sybilla, and held the truncheon,
the casting down of which was to part the combatants and end the fight. The three knights on
the southern or Earl's side were a singular contrast to their opponents. Two of them, the Earl
William and his cousin Hugh, were no more than boys in years, though already old in military
exercises; the third, Alan Fleming of Cumbernauld, was a strong horseman and excellent with
his lance, though also slender of body and more distinguished for dexterity than for power
of arm. Yet he was destined to lay a good lance in rest that day, and to come forth unshamed.

The Avondale party were to the eye infinitely the stronger, that is when knights only were
considered. For James Douglas was little less than a giant. His jolly person and frank manners
seemed to fill all the field with good humour, and from his station he cried challenges to
his cousin the Earl and defiances to his brother Hugh, with that broad rollicking wit which
endeared him to the commons, to whom "Mickle Lord Jamie" had long been a popular hero.

"Bid our Hugh there rin hame for his hippen clouts lest he make of himself a shame," he cried;
"'tis not fair that we should have to fight with babes."

"Mayhap he will be as David to your Goliath, thou great gomeril!" replied the Earl with equal
good humour, seeing his cousin Hugh blush and fumble uncomfortably at his arms.

Then to the lad himself he said: "Keep a light hand on your rein, a good grip at the knee,
and after the first shock we will ride round them like swallows about so many bullocks."

The other two Avondale knights, William Douglas and the Marshal de Retz, were also large men,
and the latter especially, clothed in black armour and with the royal ermines of Brittany quartered
on his shield, looked a stern and commanding figure.

The squires were well matched. These fought on foot, armed according to custom with sword,
axe, and dagger--though Sholto would much have preferred to trust to his arrow skill even against
the plate of the knights.

The trumpets blew their warning from the judge's gallery. The six opposing knights laid their
lances in rest. The squires leaned a little forward as if about to run a race. Lord Maxwell
raised his truncheon. The trumpets sounded again, and as their stirring taran-tara rang down
the wide strath of Dee, the riders spurred their horses into full career. It so chanced that,
as they had stood, James of Avondale was opposite the Earl, each being in the midst as was
their right as leaders. The Master of Avondale opposed his brother Hugh, and the Marshal de
Retz couched spear against young Alan Fleming. In this order they started to ride their course.
But at the last moment, instead of riding straight for his man, the Frenchman swerved to the
left, and, raising his lance high in the air, he threw it in the manner of his country straight
at the visor bars of the young Earl of Douglas. The spear of James of Avondale at the same
time taking him fair in the middle of his shield, the double assault caused the young man to
fall heavily from his saddle, so that the crash sounded dully over the field.

"Treachery! Treachery!--A foul false stroke! A knave's device!" cried nine-tenths of those
who were crowded about the barriers. "Stop the fight! Kill the Frenchman!"

"Not so," cried Lord Maxwell, "they were to fight as best they could, and they must fight it
to the end!"

And this being a decision not to be gainsaid, the combat proceeded on very unequal terms. Sholto,
who had been eagerly on the stretch to match himself with the squire of James of Avondale,
the young knight of the Bass, found himself suddenly astride of his lord's body and defending
himself against both the French ambassador and his squire Poitou, who had simultaneously crossed
over to the attack. For the Marshal de Retz, if not in complete defiance of the written rule
of chivalry, at least against the spirit of gallantry and the rules of the present tourney,
would have thrust the Earl through with his spear as he lay, crying at the same time, "À outrance!
À outrance!" to excuse the foulness of his deed.

It was lucky for himself that he did not succeed, for, undoubtedly, the Douglases then on the
field would have torn him to pieces for what they not unnaturally considered his treachery.
As it was, there sounded a mighty roar of anger all about the barriers, and the crowd pressed
so fiercely and threateningly that it was as much as the archers could do to keep them within
reasonable bounds.

"Saints' mercy!" puffed stout Ninian Halliburton, "let us get out of this place. I am near
bursen. Haud off there, varlet, ken ye not that I am a Bailie of Dumfries? Keep your feet off
the tail o' my brown velvet gown. It cost nigh upon twenty silver shillings an ell!"

"A Douglas! A Douglas! Treachery! Treachery!" yelled a wild Minnigaff man, thrusting a naked
brand high into the air within an inch of the burgess's nose. That worthy citizen almost fell
backwards in dismay, and indeed must have done so but for the pressure of the crowd behind
him. He was, therefore, much against his will compelled to keep his place in the front rank
of the spectators.

"Well done, young lad," cried the crowd, seeing Sholto ward and strike at Poitou and his master,
"God, but he is fechtin' like the black deil himself!"

"It will be as chancy for him," cried the wild Minnigaff hillman, "for I will tear the harrigals
oot o' Sholto MacKim if onything happen to the Earl!"

But the captain of the guard, light as a feather, had easily avoided the thrust of the marshal's
spear, taking it at an angle and turning it aside with his shield. Then, springing up behind
him, he pulled the French knight down to the ground with the hook of his axe, by that trick
of attack which was the lesson taught once for all to the Scots of the Lowlands upon the stricken
field of the Red Harlaw.

The marshal fell heavily and lay still, for he was a man of feeble body, and the weight of
his armour very great.

"Slay him! Slay him!" yelled the people, still furious at what, not without reason, they considered
rank treachery.

Sholto recovered himself, and reached his master only in time to find Poitou bending over Earl
Douglas with a dagger in his hand.

With a wild yell he lashed out at the Breton squire, and Sholto's axe striking fair on his
steel cap, Poitou fell senseless across the body of Douglas.

"Well done, Sholto MacKim--well done, lad!" came from all the barrier, and even Ninian Halliburton
cried: "Ye shall hae a silken doublet for that!" Then, recollecting himself, he added, "At
little mair than cost price!"

"God in heeven, 'tis bonny fechtin!" cried the man from Minnigaff. "Oh, if I could dirk the
fause hound I wad dee happy!"

And the hillman danced on the toes of the Bailie of Dumfries and shook the barriers with his
hand till he received a rap over the knuckles from the handle of a partisan directed by the
stout arms of Andro the Penman.

"Haud back there, heather-besom!" cried the archer, "gin ye want ever again to taste 'braxy'!"

Over the rest of the field the fortune of war had been somewhat various. William of Douglas
had unhorsed his brother Hugh at the first shock, but immediately foregoing his advantage with
the most chivalrous courtesy, he leaped from his own horse and drew his sword.

On the right Alan Fleming, being by the marshal's action suddenly deprived of his opponent,
had wheeled his charger and borne down sideways upon James of Douglas, and that doughty champion,
not having fully recovered from the shock of his encounter with the Earl, and being taken from
an unexpected quarter, went down as much to his own surprise as to that of the people at the
barriers, who had looked upon him as the strongest champion on the field.

It was evident, therefore, that, in spite of the loss of their leader, the Earl's party stood
every chance to win the field. For not only was Alan Fleming the only knight left on horseback,
but Malise MacKim had disposed of the laird of Stra'ven, squire to William of Avondale, having
by one mighty axe stroke beaten the Lanarkshire man down to his knees.

"A Douglas! A Douglas!" shouted the populace; "now let them have it!"

And the adherents of the Earl were proceeding to carry out this intent, when my Lord Maxwell
unexpectedly put an end to the combat by throwing down his truncheon and proclaiming a drawn
battle.

"False loon!" cried Sholto, shaking his axe at him in the extremity of his anger, "we have
beaten them fairly. Would that I could get at thee! Come down and fight an encounter to the
end. I will take any Maxwell here in my shirt!"

"Hold your tongue!" commanded his father, briefly, "what else can ye expect of a border man
but broken faith?"

The archers of the guard rushed in, as was their duty, and separated the remaining combatants.
Hugh and his brother William fought it to the last, the younger with all his vigour and with
a fierce energy born of his brother James's taunts, William with the calm courtesy and forbearance
of an old and assured knight towards one who has yet his spurs to win.

The stunned knights and squires were conveyed to their several pavilions, where the Earl's
apothecaries were at once in attendance. William of Douglas was the first to revive, which
he did almost as soon as the laces of his helm had been undone and water dashed upon his face.
His head still sang, he declared, like a hive of bees, but that was all.

He bent with the anxiety of a generous enemy over the unconscious form of the Marshal de Retz,
from whom they were stripping his armour. At the removal of the helmet, the strange parchment
face with its blue-black stubbly beard was seen to be more than usually pale and drawn. The
upper lip was retracted, and a set of long white teeth gleamed like those of a wild beast.

The apothecary was just commencing to strip off the leathern under-doublet from the ambassador's
body to search for a wound, when Poitou, his squire, happened to open his eyes. He had been
laid upon the floor, as the most seriously wounded of the combatants, though being the least
in honour he fell to be attended last.

Instantly he cried out a strange Breton word, unintelligible to all present, and, leaping from
the floor, he flung himself across the body of his master, dashing aside the astonished apothecary,
who had only time to discern on the marshal's shoulder the scar of a recent cautery before
Poitou had restored the leathern under-doublet to its place.

"Hands off! Do not touch my master. I alone can bring him to. Leave the room, all of you."

"Sirrah!" cried the Earl, sternly, striding towards him, "I will teach you to speak humbly
to more honourable men."

"My lord," cried Poitou, instantly recalled to himself, "believe me, I meant no ill. But true
it is that I only can recover him. I have often seen him taken thus. But I must be left alone.
My master hath a blemish upon him, and one great gentleman does not humiliate another in the
presence of underlings. My Lord Douglas, as you love honour, bid all to leave me alone for
a brief space."

"Much cared he for honour, when he threw the lance at my master!" growled Sholto. "Had I known,
I would have driven my bill-point six inches lower, and then would there have been a most satisfactory
blemish in the joining of his neck-bone."

CHAPTER XXIII

SHOLTO WINS KNIGHTHOOD

The ambassador recovered quickly after he had been left with his servant Poitou, according
to the latter's request. The Lady Sybilla manifested the most tender concern in the matter
of the accident of judgment which had been the means of diverting her kinsman from his own
opponent and bringing him into collision with the Earl Douglas.

"Often have I striven with my lord that he should ride no more in the lists," she said, "for
since he received the lance-thrust in the eye by the side of La Pucelle before the walls of
Orleans, he sees no more aright, but bears ever in the direction of the eye which sees and
away from that wherein he had his wound."

"Indeed, I knew not that the Marshal de Retz had been wounded in the eye, or I should not have
permitted him to ride in the tourney," returned the Earl, gravely. I
wish ...

In another trip to Brest, Ferragut expected to let him go long enough
Auray to climb the stairs on their knees, to see Santa Ana and back
on board.

Was not the ship at the commercial port. Had passed the military port, narrow estuary that twists
through the interior of the city, splitting it in two. A large swing bridge put in touch both sides,
bordered with large buildings and tall chimneys, workshops of marine deposits, stocks, dry docks
for cleaning ships. Tugs continuously moving and muddy green water. The vapors in repair aligned along
of the piers, under continuous hammering resounded their plates. Topped barges coal hills were
slow to be placed on the sides of ships. Under the bridge rotating the boats arriving and departing
from the battleships, leaving floating docks off-duty crews, who
greeted with shocking jump to the ground screaming.

Mare nostrum remained isolated while workers installed array on its
stern a rapid-fire cannon and apparatus for wireless telegraphy.

No one could enter it not belonged to his crew.

The families of the sailors waiting for them at the dock, and had occasion to know Caragol to
many of Brittany, mothers, sisters or pledges of new friends. She loved these women: were dressed
in black, with wide skirts and white caps and rigid brought to his memory the play of the
nuns ... Some girls, tall, fleshy, blue-eyed and candid, laugh with Spanish without understanding
a word. The old, wrinkled face and dark as wintry apples, clashed with his glass of greasy spoon
Caragol in neighboring port.

All honor to a drink made in due course and had great faith in the saints. The Cook no longer
needed ... Excellent and friendly people!

Some boys decorated with the Croix de Guerre told him his exploits. Survivors were of marine rifle battalions
defended Dixmude. After the battle Marne had sent to break up the enemy on the side of Flanders.
Did not exceed six thousand, and aided by a Belgian division supported the thrust of an entire
army. Their resistance had lasted for weeks: a bout of barricades in the streets, fights over
a channel with the bitterness of old approaches.

The officers shouted their orders with sword broken and bandaged head, the men were fighting
without thinking about their wounds covered blood, until they fell
dead.

Caragol little fond of military companies, is excited telling this Ferragut heroic struggle, just
because she had been on his new friends.

- So many died, captain, almost half ... but the Germans could not move forward ... Then, when
he learned that the sailors had not been more than six thousand,
general Boches it pulled their hair: such was his rage!

Believed to have been in front of tens of thousands ... It's nice to hear tell that to the guys
who were there.

These "boys" in the war wounded, who had gone to the Naval Reserve and manned Mare Nostrum, one
was distinguished by the preference of the old. Could speak Spanish, account of his transatlantic
voyages, and also was born in Vannes.

Just approaching his dominions, came to meet him with a smile of invitation: "A soda ... Vicente?
"The best seat was for him. Caragol had forgotten his name as unnecessary. As of Vannes, could
only be called Vincent.

The first day they were spoken, the sailor, in love with his country, he described the beauties
of Morbihan, extensive inland sea surrounded by forests, pine-covered
islands, antiques venerable of the city, its Gothic cathedral, abundant
in tombs, including that of a saint Spanish: San Vicente Ferrer.

A Caragol gave heart sank. He had never troubled to find out where he was the grave of the
famous apostle of Valencia, .. Suddenly remembered a line from the
"joys" singing at the altars of the saint's devotees from their land.

Indeed, gone to die "in Vannes in Brittany" geographical name which until then had no meaning
for him ... And this guy was Vannes! It was not necessary anymore to look at him with the same
respect had he been born in a wonderland.

Describe him many times how was the saint's tomb in the transept of the cathedral, moth-eaten tapestries
that perpetuated his miracles, the silver bust that kept his heart ... In addition, the front
door of Vannes was called San Vicente, and memories of the saint were still alive in his chronicles.

It
was also suggested to visit this city when the ship goes back to Brest. Should be very holy
Breton land, the holiest in the world, when the miraculous Valencia, after running many nations,
had wanted to die in it.

No longer was amazed that this fine fellow he had collected in Dixmude covered with wounds and prove
themselves strong and healthy now ... On board the Mare Nostrum was
gunner: he and two comrades were in charge of the cannon.

Caragol no doubt offered to the lot of submarine come out to meet
them: the "boy Vannes"

I was going to shatter the first shot. A postcard gift of Breton, representing the saint's
tomb, was on the site in honor of the kitchen.

The old man prayed as if it were a miraculous picture, and the Christ Grao was staying in the background.

One
morning, Caragol was looking for the captain, who was writing in
his cabin.

Came of land, shopping at the market. Passing through the Rue de Siam, the most important route
Brest, where the cafes, theaters and cinemas, had a meeting.

- A
meeting - continued with mysterious smile -.

You'll never guess who are you? ...

Ferragut shrugged, and in view of their indifference, the old man wanted to keep for longer
a secret.

- The slut! - Added -.

That slut scented nice weekend and came to see him ... The Naples ... of Barcelona ...

The captain paled, first surprise, then anger. Freya "in Brest? ... How here came the spy? ...

Caragol continued his story.

Returned to the ship, and she, who was walking on a sidewalk in the Rue de Siam, had recognized him
or her.

- He gave me memories to you ... Is aware that no stranger can enter ship. He said he had tried
to come to him.

He rummages the cook in his pockets, pulling out a crumpled piece of paper, one sheet White ripped
from an old letter.

- Also gave me this paper, written in the same street with a pencil. You know what it says.
I have not wanted to watch it.

Ferragut, taking the role, immediately recognized the letter of it, but uneven, nervous, drawn
in haste. Just four words: "Goodbye. I'm going to die. "

"Lies! Always lies! "He said in his mind the voice of sanity.

He tore the paper, and spent the rest of the morning worrying ...
His duty was to pursue this espionage coming to do their work in a
port of war ... All vessels anchored near Mare Nostrum were under
threat of their ads.

Who could know whether their communications mysterious serve so that
he too was attacked by a submarine saw the exit Brest harbor!

...

His first impulse was to denounce it. After he repented, by scruples of a gentleman absurd ... It
would have to explain his past to the heads of Brest, who hardly knew him. One Marine was far
Thessaloniki knew how to understand the errors of passion.

Wanted to monitor itself and in the afternoon he went to the ground.

He hated to Brest, as one of the boring cities of the Atlantic. It rained constantly and was not
otherwise distraction of the eternal walk down the street from Siam to remain dull or in cafes,
full of marine and ground officers English and Portuguese.

Public facilities ran day and night: he made inquiries at the hotels; took carriages to visit
the most picturesque suburbs. For four days, insisted on his searches,
to no avail.

Came to doubt the veracity of Uncle Caragol. Maybe he was drunk when returning to the ship and
had invented this meeting.

But the memory of the paper written by her belied this assumption ... Freya was in Brest.

The chef explained it all just to harass the captain with new questions.

-
The female bird was going to pass.

Maybe they went in the afternoon ... Pure coincidence the meeting!

He had to abandon their investigations.

The ship's defensive works were completed; holds containing a shipment of missiles to the
army of the East and several guns unassembled. Departure was ordered, and a gray and rainy morning
left the bay of Brest.

The fog made it even more difficult the transition from the obstacles that obstruct this port. They
passed the dreary bay of the Dead, ancient burial ground of sailing vessels and continued sailing
southward in search of the strait, to enter the Mediterranean.

Ferragut felt pride when considering the new look of the Mare Nostrum. Wireless telegraphy I kept
in touch with the world. He was not the servant of fate merchant captain, confident his good
luck and incapable of repelling an attack. Radiographic stations watched by it along the coast,
advising changes course to avoid the enemy in ambush. Chirped devices
invisible holding dialogues.

In addition, the stern was the barrel, protected by a canvas hood, ready to take office.

Saw almost made the dreams of his childhood, when pirates devouring stories and novels maritime
adventure. He was captain titled lawful "and Commander" as the old sailors. If the submarine
went before him, attack him with the bow, if he tried to chase, could
respond to the barrel.

His humor made him crave adventurous one of these meetings. Missing in his life a sea battle.
Wanted to see how these men behaved quiet and modest that they had
made war ground and seen the death of close.

He soon made his wish. One morning, at the height of Lisbon, when just falling asleep after spending
the night on the bridge, he was awakened by screaming and running around the crew.

A submarine had risen to 1500 feet and going to the Mare Nostrum great
speed, no doubt fearing that the merchant vessel tried to escape.

To force him to stop, he sent his cannon shells that fell in the water.

The steam moderated his departure, but was to be placed in the best
position and maneuvering with relief your piece of poop.

In the first shot the submarine began to recede, keeping a cautious
distance, surprised that answered his aggression.

The battle lasted about half an hour, repeating the shots on both sides with the speed of quick-firing
artillery.

Ferragut was near the canyon, admiring the quiet cold with they managed their servers. One always
had a bullet in his arms, ready to give the companion who introduced
him swiftly in the smoking room.

The concentrated pointer all his life in the eyes, and leaning over
the piece the move, looking for the sensitive gray body that prolonged
water visible at first sight as much as a whale.

Suddenly, a cloud of splinters flew near the bow of the steam.

An enemy bullet had hit the edge of the roof that covered the kitchen and ranches of the crew.
Caragol, who was at the door of his domain, he raised his hands to his hat. Upon dissolution
the yellow tag and smelly, we were all standing, scratching the top
of the head discovered and red.

- It's nothing! - He said -.

A piece of wood that has made me a sangria.

Fire! ... Fire!

Howled, fired by the cannon. The smell of drugstore smokeless powder, the noise Dry the explosions
seemed to intoxicate.

Jumped and pawed with the ardor of a dance warrior.

Aft gunners redoubled their activity: the firing was continuous.

- There! - Shouted Caragol -. We have touched ... Touched him!

Throughout the ship was he who could at least see the effects of the
shot.

Barely reached to distinguish the silhouette of the submarine.

But notwithstanding this, continued raging in full force of their faith:

- He played ... Viva! Alive! ...

And the strange thing was that the enemy disappeared instantly from the blue surface. Gunners
even a few shots went against his periscope.

After the site was only occupied by it a bright white sheet.

The steam went into this huge oil slick, a move that took the shimmering reflections.

The sailors were cries of enthusiasm. Felt that they had sunk the sub. The officers were less
optimistic: "Who knows?"

Had not seen him rise vertically to sink then on one end and a spindle
tip.

Perhaps he had suffered a simple breakdown that compelled him to
hide.

To Caragol was undeniable loss of the submarine. Considered unnecessary to ask the name that
had been smashed.

- Has been to Vannes ... Only he can be.

The other gunners did not exist.

And emboldened by his enthusiasm, out of hand two sailors who had
begun to sell the head with a neatness learned in ground combat.

Ferragut was satisfied with the meeting. I was not sure of the destruction of the enemy, but if you
had saved could bring the news to the others that the mare nostrum
was able defense.

Their joy was beside him Caragol.

- Very good, veteran.

Write to the Minister of Marine to give him the Croix de Guerre.

The cook, taking seriously the words, declined. If you got any reward, it was for "Vannes boy." Then
he added, as reflecting the thoughts of his Captain:

- It's nice to browse and ... A steam you have left our teeth, and
no longer have to flee as a startled hare ... Let him make his way
in peace, because now it bites.

All the rest of the trip to Thessaloniki was without incident. The telegraph was kept in contact
with instructions arrivals land.

Gibraltar advised to surf along the coastline Africa, Malta and Bizerte told him he could go
on, because it is the passage between Tunisia and Sicily clean of enemies. Far Egypt came within
his reach reassuring messages while sailing between the Greek islands
with the bow to Thessaloniki.

The return was to take charge at the port of Marseilles.

Ferragut did not worry about the ship when it was anchored. French officers were which is understood
to port authorities.

He simply be a justification flag, a neutral country captain was asserting its presence nationality
the vessel.

Only at sea recovered the husband, becoming obey all about the bridge.

Marseille wandered as usual, from the early afternoon on the terraces of Cannebière cafes.

An old man engaged in commerce Marseille captain talked with him before
returning to his office.

One evening, Ferragut stared vacantly in a Paris newspaper that carried his friend.

Suddenly drew his attention to a name printed at the head of a short article. Surprise made him turn
pale, while you catch something in his chest. He returned to spell the name, fearing she had
suffered a hallucination. It was impossible to doubt, was clear: Freya Talberg.

He took the newspaper from the hands of his companions, disguising his impatience with a wave
of curiosity.

- What do today's war?

...

And while the old sailor gave him news he read feverishly then grouped lines of that name.

He was disoriented. Were not much for him, ignoring the above facts mentioned by the newspaper. These
lines meant a simple protest against the government because there was subject to the famous
sentence Talberg Freya who had sentenced them. The article ended mentioning the beauty and elegance
of the offender, as if such qualities to be attributed to delay in punishment.

Ferragut strove to give his voice a tone of indifference.

- Who is this guy? - Said pointing to the title.

His partner had to make a memory. Many things were happening during the war!

- A Boche, a spy, sentenced to death ... It seems that a lot of work here and in other ports giving
notice to the German submarines out of our transport ... The seized in Paris two months ago, while
returning from Brest.

He said that the friend with indifference. They were so many spies! ... Often newspapers published
news of shootings, two lines just as if it were an ordinary accident.

-
That Freya Talberg - continued - has made enough of him to speak.

It seems to be a woman chic: a novel kind of lady. Many protest that have not yet operational. Is sad
to have to kill a person of their sex.

Kill a woman, and a beautiful woman! ... But nevertheless, it is necessary ... I think to be
shot at any moment.

XII

Amphitrite! ... Amphitrite!

The Mare Nostrum Marseille made another trip to Thessaloniki.

Ferragut looked in vain for further news before leaving Freya in Paris newspapers. Several events
for a few days distracted public attention, and was momentarily Spy forgotten.

On arriving at Thessaloniki was discreet questions to his military friends in cafes and marine port.
Almost all were unaware of the name Freya Talberg.

Those who had read the newspapers responded with indifference.

- I know who he is: a spy who was an artist, a woman of a certain chic. I think it's been shot
... I do not know the way, but they having executed.

Had more important things to think about. A spy!

... Everywhere encountered with the workings of German intelligence. Had to shoot a lot ... And
immediately forgot the subject to talk about the hazards of war, threatening them and his companions
weapons.

Ferragut When he returned to Marseille, two months later, did not
know whether his former lover was still among the living.

The first evening he found in the coffee contertulio Cannebière his
old Captain, cleverly routing the conversation was to be able to formulate
the question naturally he had in his thought: "What had become of
those that so preoccupied Talberg Freya told reporters before leaving
him to Thessaloniki ?...»

Marseille had to make an effort to remember.

- Ah, yes ... Boche
spy! - Said after a long pause -. The shot a few weeks ago. Newspapers
have not talked much about his death. A few lines, these people deserve
no more ...

Ferragut's friend had two sons in the army, a nephew
had died in the trenches; another pilot on board a transport, had
perished in a torpedo. He spent many sleepless nights, thinking about
the fate of their sons fighting in the front, and this concern was
a harsh and fiercely patriotic enthusiasms.

- Well is dead ... She
was a woman, and the executions of women are painful. Always cause
reluctance to treat them as men ... But I'm told, this individual,
with notices of his spying, contributed to torpedoing of sixteen vessels
... Ah, Poor beast! ...

And he said no more, going to talk about
something else. All showed the same revulsion to make a memory of
the spy.

Ferragut eventually involved the same sentiment. His brain
had split with the duality contradictory of all the critical moments
of its existence. Freya hated thinking about their crimes. Remembered
as a man from sea to anonymous colleagues killed in the torpedoes.
This woman had been the trainer unaware of many murders ... At the
same time evoked the image of the other, the lover who knew his wiles
to keep him with the old Naples palace, making the prison voluptuous
best memories.

"I do not think more on it - he said vigorously -.
He died ... Does not exist. "

But even after her death left him in
peace. His memory was quick to resurface, adhering to him with a tragic
interest.

The same afternoon he talked to his friend in the coffee
Cannebière went to the post office to get the mail, which was sent
to Marseilles. Handed him a thick packet letters and newspapers. In
the letter envelopes and stamps was guessing who wrote to him: a single
letter from his wife, consisting of a single sheet, judging by its
flexible thin, three very bulky Toni, kind of diaries, in which was
telling to shop, their crops, hopes to see come to the captain, all
mixed with plenty of news about war and unrest of the people. In addition,
several sheets of banking institutions Barcelona Ferragut realizing
the use of their capital.

Standing on the steps of the palace, finished
reviewing your correspondence on the outer face. Was similar to that
found at the back of his travels.

I was going to keep in their pockets
and move on, when an envelope caught his eye voluminous unknown letter,
certificate in Paris ...

Curiosity made him open it immediately,
and saw in his hands a sheaf of true leaves loose, a long story that
went beyond the limits of a letter. He looked at the printed letterhead
and then the signing. Which he wrote was a lawyer in Paris, and sensed
by the paper Ferragut luxurious and address of her home that was to
be a famous maître. So remember to have found ever his name in the
papers.

He began reading the first page there, longing to know why
because he wrote the serious character. But scarcely had spent the
eyes for a few lines, stopped reading. He stumbled over the name of
Freya Talberg. This was his defense attorney to the Council war.

Hastened
to save the letter, dominating his impatience. Felt the need for quiet
absolute seclusion and loneliness experienced by a passionate reader
to acquire a new book. This bunch of papers contained for him the
most interesting stories.

Speaking to his ship, it seemed the longer
route than usual. He longed to be locked in his cabin, far from curiosity,
as if to make a mysterious operation.

Freya did not exist. Had disappeared
from the world in a shameful, criminal and disappear, doubly doomed,
but even their memory was repelled by the people, and Ferragut, within
Moments later, it was going to emerge as a ghost in the houseboat
she had visited twice. Could know the final hours of its existence,
wrapped in a mystery of contempt could force the hand of the judge,
who had condemned to loss of life and after death to perish in the
memory of all.

With real eagerness sat at the table of his cabin,
tidying content about: more than twelve pages written on both sides
and several newspaper clippings. In these cuts saw the picture of
Freya, a hard and confusing picture. Recognized only by their name
placed at the bottom: it had been another woman. He also saw the portrait
of his defense: a old lawyer, neat appearance, with finely combed
white hair and youthful eyes.

Ferragut guessed from the first lines
that the maître could not write or speak without literature. His letter
was a measured and accurate story, in which the emotion, to live was,
it contained quietly, not wanting to mess up the folds of a regal
style.

Began his professional duty to explain how he had decided
to defend a spy. The bell swung in the monastery tower. The cottage in
the dell was safe as the château on the hill. Then came the foreign leader of a foreign army,
and lo! in a day, there were a hundred dead men in the valley, all honourable men slain in
defence of their own doors. The smoky flicker of flames broke through the roof in the daylight.
There was heard the crying of many women. And the man who wrought this was an Earl of Douglas."

The girl paused, and in a low whisper, intense as the breathing of the sea, she said:

"And for this will I deliver into your hands his grandson, William of Douglas!"

Then her voice came again to the ears of the four listeners, in a note low and monotonous like
the wind that goes about the house on autumn evenings.

"There was also one who, being but a child, had escaped from that tumult and had found shelter
in a white convent with the sisters thereof, who taught her to pray, and be happy in the peace
of the hour that is exactly like the one before it. The shadow of the dial finger upon the
stone was not more peaceful than the holy round of her life.

"Then came one who met her by the convent wall, met her under the shade of the orchard trees,
met her under cloud of night, till his soul had power over hers. She followed him by camp and
city, fearing no man's scorn, feeling no woman's reproach, for love's sake and his. Yet at
the last he cast her away, like an empty husk, and sailed over the seas to his own land. She
lived to wed the Sieur de Thouars and to become my mother."

"And for this will I reckon with his son William, Duke of Touraine."

She ceased, and de Retz began to speak.

"By me this girl has been taught the deepest wisdom of the ancients. I have delved deep in
the lore of the ages that this maiden might be fitted for her task. For I also, that am a marshal
of France and of kin to my Lord Duke of Brittany, have a score to settle with William, Earl
of Douglas, as hath also my master, Louis the Dauphin!"

"It is enough," interjected Crichton the Chancellor, who had listened to the recital of the
Lady Sybilla with manifest impatience, "it is the old story--the sins of the fathers are upon
the children. And this young man must suffer for those that went before him. They drank of
the full cup, and so he hath come now to the drains. It skills not why we each desire to make
an end of him. We are agreed on the fact. The question is how."

It was again the voice of de Retz which replied, the deep silence of afternoon resting like
a weight upon all about them.

"If we write him a letter inviting him to the Castle of Edinburgh, he will assuredly not come;
but if we first entertain him with open courtesy at one of your castles on the way, where you,
most wise Chancellor, must put yourself wholly in his hands, he will suspect nothing. There,
when all his suspicions are lulled, he will again meet the Lady Sybilla; it will rest with
her to bring him to Edinburgh."

The Chancellor had been busily writing on the parchment before him whilst de Retz was speaking.
Presently he held up his hand and read aloud that which he had written.

"To the most noble William, Earl of Douglas and Duke of Touraine, greeting! In the name of
King James the Second, whom God preserve, and in order that the realm may have peace, Sir William
Crichton, Chancellor of Scotland, and Sir Alexander Livingston, Governor of the King's person,
do invite and humbly intreat the Earl of Douglas to come to the City of Edinburgh, with such
following as shall seem good to him, in order that he may be duly invested with the office
of Lieutenant-General of the Kingdom, which office was his father's before him. So shall the
realm abide in peace and evil-doers be put down, the peaceable prevented with power, and the
Earl of Douglas stand openly in the honourable place of his forebears."

The Chancellor finished his reading and looked around for approbation. James of Avondale was
nodding gravely. de Retz, with a ghastly smile on his face, seemed to be weighing the phrases.
Livingston was admiring, with a self-satisfied smile, the pinkish lights upon his finger-nails,
and the girl was gazing as before out of the window into the green close wherein the leaves
stirred and the shadows had begun to swim lazily on the grass with the coming of the wind from
off the sea.

"To this I would add as followeth," continued Crichton. "The Chancellor of Scotland to William,
Earl of Douglas, greeting and homage! Sir William Crichton ventures to hope that the Earl of
Douglas will do him the great honour to come to his new Castle of Crichton, there to be entertained
as beseemeth his dignity, to the healing of all ancient enmities, and also that they both may
do honour to the ambassador of the King of France ere he set sail again for his own land."

"It is indeed a worthy epistle," said James the Gross, who, being sleepy, wished for an end
to be made.

"There is at least in it no lack of 'Chancellor of Scotland!'" sneered Livingston, covertly.

"Gently, gently, great sirs," interposed de Retz, as the Chancellor looked up with anger in
his eye; "have out your quarrels as you will--after the snapping of the trap. Remember that
this which we do is a matter of life or death for all of us."

"But the Douglases will wash us off the face of Scotland if we so much as lay hand on the Earl,"
objected Livingston. "It might even affect the safety of his Majesty's person!"

James the Gross laughed a low laugh and looked at Crichton.

"Perhaps," he said; "but what if the gallant boy David go with his brother? Whoever after that
shall be next Earl of Douglas can easily prevent that. Also Angus is for us, and my Lord Maxwell
will move no hand. There remains, therefore, only Galloway, and my son William will answer
for that. I myself am old and fat, and love not fighting, but to tame the Douglases shall be
my part, and assuredly not the least."

All this while the Lady Sybilla had been standing motionless gazing out of the window. de Retz
now motioned her away with an almost imperceptible signal of his hand, whereat Sir Alexander
Livingston, seeing the girl about to leave the chamber of council, courteously rose to usher
her out. And with the very slightest acknowledgment of his profound obeisance, Sybilla de Thouars
went forth and left the four men to their cabal of treachery and death.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE YOUNG LORDS RIDE AWAY

This was the letter which, along with the Chancellor's invitations, came to the hand of the
Earl William as he rode forth to the deer-hunting one morning from his Castle of Thrieve:

"My lord, if it be not that you have wholly forgotten me and your promise, this comes to inform
you that my uncle and I purpose to abide at the Castle of Crichton for ten days before finally
departing forth of this land. It is known to me that the Chancellor, moved thereto by One who
desires much to see you, hath invited the Earl of Douglas to come thither with what retinue
is best beseeming so great a lord.

"But 'tis beyond hope that we should meet in this manner. My lord hath, doubtless, ere this
forgot all that was between us, and hath already seen others fairer and more worthy of his
courteous regard than the Lady Sybilla. This is as well beseems a mighty lord, who taketh up
a cup full and setteth it down empty. But a woman hath naught to do, save only to remember
the things that have been, and to think upon them. Grace be to you, my dear lord. And so for
this time and it may be for ever, fare you well!"

When the Earl had read this letter from the Lady Sybilla, he turned himself in his saddle without
delay and said to his hunt-master:

"Take back the hounds, we will not hunt the stag this day."

The messenger stood respectfully before him waiting to take back an answer.

"Come you from the town of Edinburgh?" asked the Earl, quickly.

"Nay," said the youth, "let it please your greatness, I am a servant of my Lord of Crichton,
and come from his new castle in the Lothians."

"Doth the Chancellor abide there at this present?" asked the Earl.

"He came two noons ago with but one attendant, and bade us make ready for a great company who
were to arrive there this very day. Then he gave me these two letters and set my head on the
safe delivery of them."

"Sholto," cried the young lord, "summon the guard and men-at-arms. Take all that can be spared
from the defence of the castle and make ready to follow me. I ride immediately to visit the
Chancellor of Scotland at his castle in the Lothians."

It was Sholto's duty to obey, but his heart sank within him, both at the thought of the Earl
thus venturing among his enemies, and also because he must needs leave behind him Maud Lindesay,
on whose wilful and wayward beauty his heart was set.

"My lord," he stammered, "permit me one word. Were it not better to wait till a following of
knights and gentlemen beseeming the Earl of Douglas should be brought together to accompany
you on so perilous a journey?"

"Do as I bid you, Sir Captain," was the Earl's short rejoinder; "you have my orders."

"O that the Abbot were here--" thought Sholto, as he moved heavily to do his master's will;
"he might reason with the Earl with some hope of success."

On his way to summon the guard Sholto met Maud Lindesay going out to twine gowans with the
Maid on the meadows about the Mains of Kelton. For, as Margaret Douglas complained, "All ours
on the isle were trodden down by the men who came to the tourney, and they have not grown up
again."

"Whither away so gloomy, Sir Knight?" cried Maud, all her winsome face alight with pleasure
in the bright day, and because of the excellent joy of living.

"On a most gloomy errand, indeed," said Sholto. "My lord rides with a small company into the
very stronghold of his enemy, and will hear no word from any!"

"And do you go with him?" cried Maud, her bright colour leaving her face.

"Not only I, but all that can be spared of the men-at-arms and of the archer guard," answered
Sholto.

Maud Lindesay turned about and took the little girl's hand.

"Margaret," she said, "let us go to my lady. Perhaps she will be able to keep my Lord William
at home."

So they went back to the chamber of my Lady of Douglas. Now the Countess had never been of
great influence with her son, even during her husband's lifetime, and had certainly none with
him since. Still it was possible that William Douglas might, for a time at least, listen to
advice and delay his setting out till a suitable retinue could be brought together to protect
him. Maud and Margaret found the Lady of Douglas busily embroidering a vestment of silk and
gold for the Abbot of Sweetheart. She laid aside her work and listened with gentle patience
to the hasty tale told by Maud Lindesay.

"I will speak with William," she answered, with a certain hopelessness in her voice, "but I
know well he will go his own gait for aught that his mother can say. He is his father's son,
and the men of the house of Douglas, they come and they go, recking no will but their own.
And even so will my son William."

"But he is taking David with him also!" cried Margaret. "I met him even now on the stair, wild
in haste to put on his shirt of mail and the sword with the golden hilt which the ambassador
of France gave him."

A quick flush coloured the pale countenance of the Lady Countess.

"Nay, but one is surely enough to meet the Chancellor. David shall not go. He is but a lad
and knows nothing of these things."

For this boy was ever his mother's favourite, far more than either her elder son or her little
daughter, whom indeed she left entirely to the care and companionship of Maud Lindesay.

My Lady of Douglas went slowly downstairs. The Earl, with Sholto by his side, was ordering
the accoutrement of the mounted men-at-arms in the courtyard.

"William," she called, in a soft voice which would not have reached him, busied as he was with
his work, but that little Margaret raised her childish treble and called out: "William, our
mother desires to speak with you. Do you not hear her?"

The Earl turned about, and, seeing his mother, came quickly to her and stood bareheaded before her.

"You are not going to run into danger, William?" she said, still softly.

"Nay, mother mine," he answered, smiling, "do not fear, I do but ride to visit the Chancellor
Crichton in his castle, and also to bid farewell to the French ambassador, who abode here as
our guest."

A sudden light shone in upon the mind of Maud Lindesay.

"'Tis all that French minx!" she whispered in Sholto's ear, "she hath bewitched him. No one
need try to stop him now."

His mother went on, with an added anxiety in her voice.

"But you will not take my little David with you? You will leave me one son here to comfort
me in my loneliness and old age?"

The Earl seemed about to yield, being, indeed, careless whether David went with him or no.

"Mother," cried David, coming running forth from the castle, "you must not persuade William
to make me stay at home. I shall never be a man if I am kept among women. There is Sholto MacKim,
he is little older than I, and already he hath won the archery prize and the sword-play, and
hath fought in a tourney and been knighted--while I have done nothing except pull gowans with
Maud Lindesay and play chuckie stones with Margaret there."

And at that moment Sholto wished that this fate had been his, and the honours David's. He told
himself that he would willingly have given up his very knighthood that he might abide near
that dainty form and witching face. He tortured himself with the thought that Maud would listen
to others as she had listened to him; that she would practise on others that heart-breaking
slow droop and quick uplift of the eyelashes which he knew so well. Who might not be at hand
to aid her to blow out her lamp when the guards were set of new in the corridors of Thrieve?

"Mother," the Earl answered, "David speaks good sense. He will never make a man or a Douglas
if he is to bide here within this warded isle. He must venture forth into the world of men
and women, and taste a man's pleasures and chance a man's dangers like the rest."

"But are you certain that you will bring him safe back again to me?" said his mother, wistfully.
"Remember, he is so young and eke so reckless."

"Nay," cried David, eagerly, "I am no younger than my cousin James was when he fought the strongest
man in Scotland, and I warrant I could ride a course as well as Hughie Douglas of Avondale,
though William chose him for the tourney and left me to bite my thumbs at home."

The lady sighed and looked at her sons, one of them but a youth and the other no more than a boy.

"Was there ever a Douglas yet who would take any advice but from his own desire?" she said,
looking down at them like a douce barn-door fowl who by chance has reared a pair of eaglets.
"Lads, ye are over strong for your mother. But I will not sleep nor eat aright till I have
my David back again, and can see him riding his horse homeward through the ford."

CHAPTER XXVIII

ON THE CASTLE ROOF

Maud Lindesay parted from Sholto upon the roof of the keep. She had gone up thither to watch
the cavalcade ride off where none could spy upon her, and Sholto, noting the flutter of white
by the battlements, ran up thither also, pretending that he had forgotten something, though
he was indeed fully armed and ready to mount and ride.

Maud Lindesay was leaning over the battlements of the castle, and, hearing a step behind her,
she looked about with a start of apparent surprise.

The after dew of recent tears still glorified her eyes.

"Oh, Sholto," she cried, "I thought you were gone; I was watching for you to ride away. I thought--"

But Sholto, seeing her disorder, and having little time to waste, came quickly forward and
took her in his arms without apology or prelude, as is (they say) wisest in such cases.

"Maud," he said, his utterance quick and hoarse, "we go into the house of our enemies. Thirty
knights and no more accompany my lord, who might have ridden out with three thousand in his train."

"'Tis all that witch woman," cried the girl; "can you not advise him?"

"The Earl of Douglas did not ask my advice," said Sholto, a little dryly, being eager to turn
the conversation upon his own matters and to his own advantage. "And, moreover, if he rides
into danger for the sake of love--why, I for one think the more of him for it."

"But for such a creature," objected Maud Lindesay. "For any true maid it were most right and
proper! Where is there a noble lady in Scotland who would not have been proud to listen to
him? But he must needs run after this mongrel French woman!"

"Even Mistress Maud Lindesay would accept him, would she?" said Sholto, somewhat bitterly,
releasing her a little.

"Maud Lindesay is no great lady, only the daughter of a poor baron of the North, and much bound
to my Lord Douglas by gratitude for that which he hath done for her family. As you right well
know, Maud Lindesay is little better than a tiremaiden in the house of my lord."

"Nay," said Sholto, "I crave your pardon. I meant it not. I am hasty of words, and the time
is short. Will you pardon me and bid me farewell, for the horses are being led from stall,
and I cannot keep my lord waiting?"

"You are glad to go," she said reproachfully; "you will forget us whom you leave behind you
here. Indeed, you care not even now, so that you are free to wander over the world and taste
new pleasures. That is to be a man, indeed. Would that I had been born one!"

"Nay, Maud," said Sholto, trying to draw the girl again near him, because she kept him at arm's
length by the unyielding strength of her wrist, "none shall ever come near my heart save Maud
Lindesay alone! I would that I could ride away as sure of you as you are of Sholto MacKim!"

"Indeed," cried the girl, with some show of returning spirit, "to that you have no claim. Never
have I said that I loved you, nor indeed that I thought about you at all."

"It is true," answered Sholto, "and yet--I think you will remember me when the lamps are blown
out. God speed, belovedst, I hear the trumpet blow, and the horses trampling."

For out on the green before the castle the Earl's guard was mustering, and Fergus MacCulloch,
the Earl's trumpeter, blew an impatient blast. It seemed to speak to this effect:

    "Hasten ye, hasten ye, come to the riding,
      Hasten ye, hasten ye, lads of the Dee--
    Douglasdale come, come Galloway, Annandale,
      Galloway blades are the best of the three!"

Sholto held out his arms at the first burst of the stirring sound, and the girl, all her wayward
pride falling from her in a moment, came straight into them.

"Good-by, my sweetheart," he said, stooping to kiss the lips that now said him not nay, but
which quivered pitifully as he touched them, "God knows whether these eyes shall rest again
on the desire of my heart."

Maud looked into his face steadily and searchingly.

"You are sure you will not forget me, Sholto?" she said; "you will love me as much to-morrow
when you are far away, and think me as fair as you do when you hold me thus in your arms upon
the battlements of Thrieve?"

Before Sholto had time to answer, the trumpet rang out again, with a call more instant and
imperious than before.

Sholto clasped her close to him as the second summons shrilled up into the air.

"God keep my little lass!" he said; "fear not, Maud, I have never loved any but you!"

He was gone. And through her tears Maud Lindesay watched him from the top of the great square
keep, as he rode off gallantly behind the Earl and his brother.

"In time past I have dreamed," she thought to herself, "that I loved this one and that; but
it was not at all like this. I cannot put him out of my mind for a moment, even when I would!"

As the brothers William and David Douglas crossed the rough bridge of pine thrown over the
narrows of the Dee, they looked back simultaneously. Their mother stood on the green moat platform
of Thrieve, with their little sister Margaret holding up her train with a pretty modesty. She
waved not a hand, fluttered no kerchief of farewell, only stood sadly watching the sons with
whom she had travailed, like one who watches the dear dead borne to their last resting-place.

"So," she communed, "even thus do the women of the Douglas House watch their beloveds ride
out of sight. And so for many times they return through the ford at dawn or dusk. But there
cometh a night when every one of us watches the grey shallows to the east for those that shall
return no more!"

"See, see!" cried the little Margaret, "look, dear mother, they have taken off their caps,
and even Sholto hath his steel bonnet in his hand. They are bidding us farewell. I wish Maudie
had been here to see. I wonder where she has hidden herself. How surprised she will be to find
that they are gone!"

It was a true word that the little Maid of Galloway spoke, for, according to the pretty custom
of the young Earl, the cavalcade had halted ere they plunged into the woods of Kelton. The
Douglas lads took their bonnets in their hands. Their dark hair was stirred by the breeze.
Sholto also bared his head and looked towards the speck of white which he could just discern
on the summit of the frowning keep.

"Shall ever her eyelashes rise and fall again for me, and shall I see the smile waver alternately
petulant and tender upon her lips?"

This was his meditation. For, being a young man in love, these things were more to him than
matins and evensong, king or chancellor, heaven or hell--as indeed it was right and wholesome
that they should be.

CHAPTER XXIX

CASTLE CRICHTON

Crichton Castle was much more a defenced château and less a feudal stronghold than Thrieve.
It stood on a rising ground above the little Water of Tyne, which flowed clear and swift beneath
from the blind "hopes" and bare valleys of the Moorfoot Hills. But the site was well chosen
both for pleasure and defence. The ground fell away on three sides. Birch, alder, ash, girt
it round and made pleasant summer bowers everywhere.

The fox-faced Chancellor had spent much money on beautifying it, and the kitchens and larders
were reported to be the best equipped in Scotland. On the green braes of Crichton, therefore,
in due time the young Douglases arrived with their sparse train of thirty riders. Sir William
Crichton had ridden out to meet them across the innumerable little valleys which lie around
Temple and Borthwick to the brow of that great heathy tableland which runs back from the Moorfoots
clear to the Solway.

With him were only the Marshal de Retz and his niece, the Lady Sybilla.

Not a single squire or man-at-arms accompanied these three, for, as the Chancellor well judged,
there was no way more likely effectually to lull the suspicions of a gallant man like the Douglas
than to forestall him in generous confidence.

The three sat their horses and looked to the south for their guests at that delightsome hour
of the summer gloaming when the last bees are reluctantly disengaging themselves from the dewy
heather bells and the circling beetles begin their booming curfew.

"There they come!" cried de Retz, suddenly, pointing to a few specks of light which danced
and dimpled between them and the low horizon of the south, against which, like a spacious armada,
leaned a drift of primrose sunset clouds.

"There they come--I see them also!" said the Lady Sybilla, and suddenly sighed heavily and
without cause.

"Where, and how many?" cried the Chancellor, in a shrill pipe usually associated with the physically
deformed, but which from him meant no more than anxious discomposure.

The marshal pointed with the steady hand of the practised commander to the spot at which his
keen eye had detected the cavalcade.

"Yonder," he said, "where the pine tree stands up against the sky."

"And how many? I cannot see them, my eyesight fails. I bid you tell me how many," gasped the
Chancellor.

The ambassador looked long.

"There are, as I think, no more than twenty or thirty riders."

Instantly the Chancellor turned and held out his hand.

"We have him," he muttered, withdrawing it again as soon as he saw that the ambassador did
not take it, being occupied gazing under his palm at the approaching train of riders.

The Lady Sybilla sat silent and watched the company which rode towards them--with what thoughts
in her heart, who shall venture to guess? She kept her head studiously averted from the Marshal
de Retz, and once when he touched her arm to call attention to something, she shuddered and
moved a little nearer to the Chancellor. Nevertheless, she obeyed her companion implicitly
and without question when he bade her ride forward with them to receive the Chancellor's guests.

Crichton took it on himself to rally the girl on her silence.

"Of what may you be thinking so seriously?" he said.

"Of thirty pieces of silver," she replied instantly.

And at these words the marshal turned upon the girl a regard so black and relentless that the
Chancellor, happening to encounter it, shrank back abashed, even as some devilkin caught in
a fault might shrink from the angry eyes of the Master of Evil.

But the Lady Sybilla looked calmly at her kinsman.

"Of what do you complain?" he asked her.

"I complain of nothing," she made him answer. "I am that which I am, and I am that which you
have made me, my Lord of Retz. Fear not, I will do my part."

Right handsome looked the young Earl of Douglas, as with a flush of expectation and pleasure
on his face he rode up to the party of three who had come out to meet him. He made his obeisance
to Sybilla first, with a look of supremest happiness in his eyes which many women would have
given their all to see there. As he came close he leaped from his horse, and advancing to his
lady he bent and kissed her hand.

"My Lady Sybilla," he said, "I am as ever your loyal servant."

The Chancellor and the ambassador had both dismounted, not to be outdone in courtesy, and one
after the other they greeted him with what cordiality they could muster. The narrow, thin-bearded
face of the Chancellor and the pallid death-mask of de Retz, out of which glittered orbs like
no eyes of human being, furnished a singular contrast to the uncovered head, crisp black curls,
slight moustache, and fresh olive complexion of the young Earl of Douglas.

And as often as he was not looking at her, the eyes of the Lady Sybilla rested on Lord Douglas
with a strange expression in their deeps. The colour in her cheek came and went. The vermeil
of her lip flushed and paled alternate, from the pink of the wild rose-leaf to the red of its
autumnal berry.

But presently, at a glance from her kinsman, Sybilla de Thouars seemed to recall herself with
difficulty from a land of dreams, and with an obvious effort began to talk to William Douglas.

"Whom have you brought to see me?" she said.

"Only a few men-at-arms, besides Sholto my squire, and my brother David," he made answer. "I
did not wait for more. But let me bring the lad to you. Sholto you did not like when he was
a plain archer of the guard, and I fear that he will not have risen in your grace since I dubbed
him knight."

David Douglas willingly obeyed the summons of his brother, and came forward to kiss the hand
of the Lady Sybilla.

"Here, Sholto," cried his lord, "come hither, man. It will do your pride good to see a lady
who avers that conceit hath eaten you up."

Sholto came at the word and bowed before the French damosel as he was commanded, meekly enough
to all outward aspect. But in his heart he was saying over and over to himself words that consoled
him mightily: "A murrain on her! The cozening madam, she will never be worth naming on the
same day as Maud Lindesay!"

"Nay," cried the Lady Sybilla, laughing; "indeed, I said not that I disliked this your squire.
What woman thinks the worse of a lad of mettle that he does not walk with his head between
his feet. But 'tis pity that there is no fair cruel maid to bind his heart in chains, and make
him fetch and carry to break his pride. He thinks overmuch of his sword-play and arrow skill."

"He must go to France for that humbling," said the Earl, gaily, "or else mayhap some day a
maid may come from France to break his heart for him. The like hath been and may be again."

"I would that I had known there were such gallant blades as you three, my Lords of Douglas
and their knight, sighing here in Scotland to have your hearts broke for the good of your souls.
I had then brought with me a tierce of damsels fair as cruel, who had done it in the flashing
of a swallow's wing. But 'tis a contract too great for one poor maid."

"Yet you yourself ventured all alone into this realm of forlorn and desperate men," answered
the Earl, scarcely recking what he said, nor indeed caring so that her dark eyes should continue
to rest on him with the look he had seen in them at his first coming.

"All alone--yes, much, much alone," she answered with a strange glance about her. "My kinsman
loves not womankind, and neither in his castles nor yet in his company does he permit any of
the sex long to abide."

The men now mounted again, and the three rode back in the midst of the cavalcade of Douglas
spears, the Chancellor talking as freely and confidently to the Earl as if he had been his
friend for years, while the Earl of Douglas kept up the converse right willingly so long as,
looking past the Chancellor, his eyes could rest also upon the delicately poised head and graceful
form of the Lady Sybilla.

And behind them a horse's length the Marshal de Retz rode, smiling in the depths of his blue-black
beard, and looking at them out of the wicks of his triangular eyes.

Presently the towers of the Castle of Crichton rose before them on its green jutting spur.
The Tyne Valley sank beneath into level meads and rich pastures, while behind the Moorfoots
spread brown and bare without prominent peaks or distinguished glens, but nevertheless with
a certain large vagueness and solemnity peculiarly their own.

The fêtes with which the Chancellor welcomed his guests were many and splendid. But in one
respect they differed from those which have been described at Castle Thrieve. There was no
military pomp of any kind connected with them. The Chancellor studiously avoided all pretence
of any other distinction than that belonging to a plain man whom circumstances have raised
against his will to a position of responsibility.

The thirty spears of the Earl's guard, indeed, constituted the whole military force within
or about the Castle of Crichton.

"I am a lawyer, my lord, a plain lawyer," he said; "all Scots lawyers are plain. And I must
ask you to garrison my bit peel-tower of Crichton in a manner more befitting your own greatness,
and the honour due to the ambassador of France, than a humble knight is able to do."

So Sholto was put into command of the court and battlements of the castle, and posted and changed
guard as though he had been at Thrieve, while the Chancellor bustled about, affecting more
the style of a rich and comfortable burgess than that of a feudal baron.

"'Tis a snug bit hoose," he would say, dropping into the countryside speech; "there's nocht
fine within it from cellar to roof tree, save only the provend and the jolly Malmsey. And though
I be but a poor eater myself, I love that my betters, who do me the honour of sojourning within
my gates, should have the wherewithal to be merry."

And it was even as he said, for the tables were weighted with delicacies such as were never
seen upon the boards of Thrieve or Castle Douglas.

CHAPTER XXX

THE BOWER BY YON BURNSIDE

And ever as he gazed at her the Earl of Douglas grew more and more in love with the Lady Sybilla.
There was no covert side through which a burn plunged downward from the steep side of Moorfoot,
but they wandered it alone together. Early and late they might have been met, he with his face
turned upon her, and she looking straight forward with the same inscrutable calm. And all who
saw left them alone as they took their way to gather flowers like children, or, as it might
be, stood still and silent like a pair of lovers under the evening star. For in these summer
days and nights bloomed untiringly the brief passion-flower of William Douglas's life.

Meanwhile Sholto gritted his teeth in impotent rage, but had nothing to do save change guard
and keep a wary eye upon the Chancellor, who went about rubbing his hands and glancing sidelong
as the copses closed behind the Earl of Douglas and the Lady Sybilla. As for the ambassador
of France, he was, as was usual with him, much occupied in his own chamber with his servants
Poitou and Henriet, and save when dinner was served in hall appeared little at the festivities.

Sholto wished at times for the presence of his father; but at others, when he saw William Douglas
and Sybilla return with a light on their faces, and their eyes large and vague, he bethought
him of Maud Lindesay, and was glad that, for a little at least, the sun of love should shine
upon his lord.

It was in the gracious fulness of the early autumn, when the sheaves were set up in many a
park and little warded holt about the Moorfoot braes, that William Douglas and Sybilla de Thouars
stood together upon a crest of hill, crowned with dwarf birch and thick foliaged alder--a place
in the retirement of whose sylvan bower they had already spent many tranced hours.

The Lady Sybilla sat down on a worn grey rock which thrust itself through the green turf. William
Douglas stood beside her pulling a blade of bracken to pieces. The girl had been wearing a
broad flat cap of velvet, which in the coolness of the twilight she had removed and now swung
gently to and fro in her hand as she looked to the north, where small as a toy and backed by
the orange glow of sunset, the Castle of Edinburgh could be seen black upon its wind-swept
ridge. The girl was speaking slowly and softly.

"Nay, Earl Douglas," she said, "marriage must not be named to Sybilla de Thouars, certainly
never by an Earl of Douglas and Duke of Touraine. He must wed for riches and fair provinces.
His house is regal already. He is better born than the King, more powerful also. The daughter
of a Breton squire, of a forlorn and deserted mother, the kinswoman of Gilles de Retz of Machecoul
and Champtocé, is not for him."

"A Douglas makes many sacrifices," said the young man with earnestness; "but this is not demanded
of him. Four generations of us have wedded for power. It is surely time that one did so for love."

The girl reached him her hand, saying softly: "Ah, William, would that it had been so. Too
late I begin to think on those things which might have been, had Sybilla de Thouars been born
under a more fortunate star. As it is I can only go on--a terror to myself and a bane to others."

The young man, absorbed in his own thoughts, did not hear her words.

"The world itself were little to give in order that in exchange I might possess you," he answered.

The girl laughed a strange laugh, and drew back her hand from his.

"Possess me, well--but marry me--no. Honest men and honourable like Earl Douglas do not wed
with the niece of Gilles de Retz. I had thought my heart within me to be as flint in the chalk,
yet now I pray you on my knees to leave me. Take your thirty lances and your young brother
and ride home. Then, safe in your island fortress of Thrieve, blot out of your heart all memory
that ever you found pleasure in a creature so miserable as Sybilla de Thouars."

"But," said the young Earl, passionately, "tell me why so, my lady. I do not understand. What
obstacle can there be? You tell me that you love me, that you are not betrothed. Your kinsman
is an honourable man, a marshal and an ambassador of France, a cousin of the Duke of Brittany,
a reigning sovereign. Moreover, am not I the Douglas? I am responsible to no man. William Douglas
may wed whom he will--king's daughter or beggar wench. Why should he not join with the honourable
daughter of an honourable house, and the one woman he has ever loved?"

The girl let her velvet cap fall on the ground, and sank her face between her hands. Her whole
body was shaken with emotion.

"Go--go," she cried, starting to her feet and standing before him, "call out your lances and
ride home this night. Never look more upon the face of such a thing as Sybilla de Thouars. In 1837 was provided in another particular lawyer. The Audit of War Marine
and also was served a few years by another magistrate, and although in 1830 the auditor was war
appointed by the King, and took charge of his office, not the Marines who, but suffer mistake, even
today plays the same magistrate. It should be noted that these destinations assignments have
decent, and have great emoluments by reason of fees, and one and others, the salaries of ministers,
have enjoyed these at once, when they have served these jobs. The court of dead and missing
property, an institution that should be preserved and give her best, as we shall tell you
the reasons be expressed in a separate paragraph is another position that turns among the magistrates
of every two years [4], and this court is matters of importance, but that is a lot or a little
bump your organization, it is certain that There are far behind him, and that their course
is in the extreme slow, do not observe the law signal is sent every week day to see these fights
[5]. A former top joint Real Estate (discontinued now) attended as member of the regent of
the hearing, and failing the senior judge or minister oldest: the infinite expedients that knew,
and whom he output was to give a preference, occupying more than you can say, and much more,
since in this kind of business is accustomed always leave with more caution and care, the immediate
financial liability they caused, and the particular circumstances of being the only lawyer who
was involved in their decisions the minister of the audience, convince certainty to any of the
above, and that obviously went into them warily. Currently, the top joint finance litigation is
composed by three ministers, under General-president of the local deputy superintendent Finance
[6], and its business, but as many as the top joint of the former do not give in to gravity. The
hall call justice, which is the second known instance of the court appealed more cars and
audience of the day, also up three ministers, and in view of fiscal of civil, it's become,
hear and rule on such cars, which expedients, processes or causes, for some three names to fit
you, yours are bulky and complicated by nature and lots of points to embrace, and are therefore
subject to occupation and severity; and though not much, also distract and occupy the same business
when still in progress are room visits or calls from PC board that comprises Mr. regent or oldest minister
in a civil attorney, where as for advice, referral for consultation counter greater when you like.
A board of auctions also attend the ministers and civil attorney, who is also heavy and irksome
occupation. Finally, a lord judge rotated annually in the office of judge of sororities and
fraternities, and another is an advisor to cross what is the oldest generals, who with the tax commissioner
and civil, comprising the court of the bull, and I have some gratification but small. Another is director
of the Monte Pio, another guard, another judge of slavery and freedom, another judge of hospitals
and nursing homes rides and married expulsion to Spain [7] being separated from their women:
law fall obsolete as many good laws, another is a judge of protocols and lower courts, and in all
these units is occupation, as no shortage of issues and different business and by necessity all
the progress must be slow and even late, and they that are themselves or any serious complication.

The prosecutors, in addition to the duties of his vast tequios ministry, which are very large
and complicated (as it is common for any fiscal proberbio resists that office five years fulfilling
as it should), they call upon themselves the protection of Indians
and Chinese, reduced nothing less than to make themselves (and privileges
that those are) the defense of their people, and business even when
run over by a person believe that they have not been to do justice,
benefiting (and make it easily) to the tax shelters, and occupy, and
not a little at times, for nothing but detract from their important
work to the gentlemen of the prosecution when they seems no reason,
and right when you are.

Now if for a single room of a regent, five ministers and two prosecutors are also of their regular
duties so many charges and fees of such gravity and occupation as well is, how it is conceivable
that speedy justice is administered in any field? It is impossible whatever may be desired in this
particular interim is not removed with a strong hand all these barriers, rather each one alone
to hinder and delay, which can not subject to calculation, the progress of judicial affairs.

For
although there are more, not less serious, because this is a natural
obstacle, although it could removed somewhere, never will be entirely,
at least in many years.

More than half provinces are overseas, compared with the capital Manila, located on the island
of Luzon or New Castile, in many of these trips are subject to Monzon, that is, while specific
station or to come and return to their ports, and although the establishment of postal raised
throughout the Islands as set forth in 1837, to affect anything, it will be little or nothing,
because the islands do not take interim flight required to have vapor prosperity crossing
in the archipelago [8], this obstacle, natural in itself, cause delays
and delay that can only remove a new plan and plant Fixed municipalities
and, that is what expresses the end of this matter.

§. III.

OF THE MAYOR AND CORREJIDORES.

Demonstrated the many serious obstacles to the administration of justice in the Philippines which
is so early is desirable to the higher court, or is second-and Third, it is manifest that
mediate the most serious in the lower courts, for though much different to the statements, they
are no less serious and worthy of attention the government and those,
and the Corps colejisladores consideration in his day, to seek to
remove them as soon as that can be, and given the special law for
our overseas provinces, are taken into account and what the Government
has failed to do, is refine the work, and are completely removed,
starting a new but similar progress and characteristic of the progress
of those provinces, and provide them with consummate rejeneracion
perfect for a bouquet as important as the question, and draw from
it the fruits of all and corresponds crave.

They are most unhappy in the provinces of the Philippines in the lower courts to give them speedy
justice for what they are before the hearing of the territory, because if this many serious
attention and weighing on their small number of ministers is in itself a serious cause of delay,
given the provinces to lay correjidores mayors and (most military), and all dedicated mainly to
the care and promotion of their interests through trade, and applied to raise funds, whose
collection is at his office, to them advance their fortunes, in an act of justice but do not
take part or interest, so generals, Thin offering the actions required to sign the signature,
for all proceedings generals is sorted by address by counsel, to which end the causes go, lawsuits
and processes to Manila for advice, in consequence of the provinces there are no lawyers established,
excepting those two or three that are immediate to Manila.

Criminal cases are formed first a summary is called, the mayor [9] the town where the event occurs that
motivates, instructing the first dilijencias, the more times or almost every language of the
country, not knowing the Castilian, and four taken ill statements to the defendants, if any, reports
to the mayor or correjidor. This at fault reviewed and approved interpreter, and to be imposed
on what has been written has since then the car, sending those dilijencias translated into Castilian
by an Indian either understand something of our language, and continues with the same or another
that entitles Indian interpreter summary statements that you think, and with the same ignorance
in practice trials that started the mayor. Are not these items and the most apropos eligible to begin
a case? As happens so neither more nor less so happens, unfortunately.

In the state that looks like the mayor or correjidor, provides another
order of referral of acted for a lawyer from the capital, in view
of this and advise him to dictate the procedures and dilijencias as
justice, with which business that is already forgotten, until return
performances with opinion of counsel, and sometimes tend to spend
many days and even weeks and months, only to expect a timely occasion
to refer the summary to the consultant until vessel or passenger has
to carry, and this is already on the delay that is unsafe; more often
be witness to all in court.

As the summary forms usually with many defects, court leave and return to Manila, and thence to
the province several times, until the assessor, the mayor or correjidor mayor and understand
each other, usually with great difficulty and labor, and always with the consequent delay in
proportion to the distance of the province. Meanwhile many essential dilijencias lost or become irreparable
and useless for the delay, and as in the investigation of criminal acts that no progress in the
first dilijencias, rarely come on later, is very rare to see a summary inquest well-educated.

Finally declared, after due difficulties, enough to proceed, courts promoters are not prosecutors
or defense counsel are able to ask the cause each according to his ministry, and to every motion
that inmates or prisoners often presented The Indian defense, or any other incident that occurs,
the course is suspended and then adviser when opportunity: lately, do not disturb more in
particular, where If sentence is pronounced with counsel and with the delays everything else,
and given and published, the case is sent to the hearing, where prosecutors to request usually
return to the province to reform defects, and even some annulments,
with which can not administer justice, or to practice some interesting
dilijencia was omitted, and still can be useful.

Now, the sight of this tiny little sketch and a story of how a criminal case Will there be any
doubt that it is defective and the substantiation of the heavy and slow of necessity be the administration
of justice? I think not, but if anyone doubted this indeed, can express their doubts, which
practically may be met with enumeration of cases in which I myself have been a consultant, not
a single province, but several.

There are happier and brief civil litigation, although the parties as directed by lawyers,
and well supplied with their motions (many I have done), to seek to activate, and countering
musings of litigating in bad faith, do not get it, and the reason is because they know that
ask the judge to advise and stopped the business, and cars adviser to Manila when has occasion:
then are endless litigation in the first instance, because they come and go Manila to the province
several times, and many of them to issue a not, that knew very well it promoted what would happen
so, but in the meantime annoy his hand, and if in possession of the thing Litiji, enjoys it
and enjoy, and which has blessed: incalculable damages that are caused, as well as being so palpable
that the delay and large extravagance for those who demand justice,
and the facility to hinder the who want to retain the alien, because
it will promote the natural obstacles, as said, and those derived
from the mayors and correjidores lay, these could certainly disappear
if these destinations are served by lawyers, and as regular as it
sounds, and many would stop worse, as indicated.

§. IV.

OF THE MAYOR AND OTHER ITEMS CONSIDERED CORREJIDORES OUTSIDE THE BRANCH OF JUSTICE.

Hitherto only mentioned these employees as dependents of the judiciary, it is necessary also
considered as heads of finance in the provinces, and say some things about it, monstrosities
that even though they appear, are only realities, because here it is referring only things
as they are, without exaggeration, or other defect or defect.

Correjidores the mayors and the Philippines, in addition to the judicial functions meet civil government
and defense of the people, that is a mockery of our political leaders and commanders generals, and collection
and administration of the tax paid by Indians, the Spendius of bulls and stamped paper, or are the
employees of the treasury function, which is to say, raise, managed and distributed, and over
whose fault will talk to the finance deal.

For our purposes in what is now dealing with, suffice it to say that the provisions in municipal
and Fixed with three counts that embrace these jobs of justice, and
civil government finance, will only be made to merchants, because
those positions do not expect other remuneration, promotion, award
or reward that the benefits he gets from his administration and trade,
and consequently their own interests and increasing their wealth of
deals only, and need the right away and conscientious performance
of their obligations principals.

Enjoy strong twenty-five dollars a month when provided by the governor of Manila, Real and fifty being
appointed [10], and pay the Treasury a modest remuneration for pardon, as there is called, you
can trade, that is, licensed to deal trade a judge, a political boss and a mayor, as such may be
called the mayors correjidores in the Philippines and the responsibilities
of their jobs.

From the moment they are appointed mayors or correjidores, buy your boat domestic trade or
cabotage, and some even to the exterior, which bear effect of early exit in the provinces to
which they are intended: certainly involved in facilitating Spendius
and collect their products from the people who govern, to provide
employment his ship, and drive shipments to Manila, and this, as mentioned,
is their main attention and his first care.

Funds for the asset jiro and engage in trade after taking office, should say the meet in Manila
to a conventional interest for the rest of his team and exit, then paid to those who collected
outside the public treasury, and with the same who follow his trade as long as they remain
in their posts.

A system Fixed municipalities and produced as monstrous and irregular, however, in its inception
some benefits to the Islands, because in the midst of the great fault
is on them of capitalists, many agricultural products and crafts of
the provinces had not been encouraged, and would not settle even if
the mayor had not speculated on them to trade.

 I like you because you are so bold and young. I
have none about me like you. You will teach me to ride a tourney. I have been hearing all about
yours at Thrieve from the Lady Sybilla. I wish you had asked me. But now we shall be friends,
and I will come and stay long months with you all together--that is, if my mother will let me."

All this the young King shouted as he ranged alongside of the two brothers, and rode with them
towards the city.

King James II. of Scotland was at this time an open-hearted boy, with no evident mark of the
treachery and jealous fury which afterwards distinguished him as a man. The schooling of Livingston,
his tutor, had not yet perverted his mind (as it did too soon afterwards), and he welcomed
the young Douglases as the embodiment of all that was great and knightly, noble and gallant,
in his kingdom.

"Yesterday," he began, as soon as he had subdued the ardour of his frolicsome little steed
to a steadier gait, varied only by an occasional curvet, "yesterday I was made to read in the
Chronicles of the Kings of Scotland, and lo, it was the Douglas did this and the Douglas said
that, till I cried out upon Master Kennedy, 'Enough of Douglases--I am a Stewart. Read me of
the Stewarts.' Then gave Master Kennedy a look as when he laughs in his sleeve, and shook his
head. 'This book concerneth battles,' said he, 'and not gear, plenishing, and tocher. The Douglas
won for King Robert his crown, the Stewart only married his daughter--though that, if all tales
be true, was the braver deed!' Now that was no reverent speech to me that am a Stewart, nor
yet very gallant to my great-grandmother, was it, Earl Douglas?"

"It was no fine courtier's flattery, at any rate," said the Douglas, his eyes wandering hither
and thither across the cavalcade which they were now meeting, in search of the graceful figure
and darkly splendid head of the girl he loved.

The Lady Sybilla was not there.

"They have secluded her," he muttered, in sharp jealous anger; "'tis all her kinsman's fault.
He hath the marks of a traitor and worse. But they shall not spite nor flout the Douglas."

So with a countenance grave and unresponsive he saluted Livingston the tutor, who came forth
to meet him. The Chancellor was expected immediately, for he had ridden in more rapidly by
the hill way in order that he might welcome his notable guests to the metropolitan residence
of the Kings of Scotland.

The Castle of Edinburgh was at that time in the fulness of its strength and power. The first
James had greatly enlarged and strengthened its works defensive. He had added thirty feet to
the height of David's Tower, which now served as a watch-station over all the rock, and in
his last days he had begun to build the great hall which the Chancellor had but recently finished.

It was here that presently the feast was set. The banquet-hall ran the width of the keep, and
the raised dais in the centre was large enough to seat the whole higher baronage of Scotland,
among whom (as the Earl of Douglas thought with some scorn) neither of his entertainers, Crichton
and Livingston, had any right to place themselves.

But the question where the Lady Sybilla was bestowed soon occupied the Douglas more than any
thought of his own safety or of the loyalty of his entertainers. Sybilla, however, was neither
in the courtly cavalcade which met them at the entrance of the park, nor yet among the more
numerous ladies who stood at the castle yett to welcome to Edinburgh the noble and handsome
young lords of the South.

Douglas therefore concluded that de Retz, discovering some part of the love that was between
them, or mayhap hearing of it from some spy or other at Crichton Castle, had secluded his sweetheart.
He loosened his hand on the rein to lay it on the sword-hilt, as he thought of this cruelty
to a maid so pure and fair.

Sholto kept his company very close behind him as they rode up the High-street, a gloomy defile
of tall houses dotted from topmost window to pavement with the heads of chattering goodwives,
and the flutter of household clothing hung out to dry.

At the first defences of the castle Douglas called Sholto and said: "Your fellows are to be
lodged here on the Castle Hill. The Chancellor hath sent word that there is no room in the
castle itself. For the tutor's men and King's men have already filled it to the brim."

These tidings agonised Sholto more than ever.

"My lord," he said, in a tortured whisper, "turn about your rein and we will cut our way out
even yet. Do you not see that the devils would separate you from all who love you? And I shall
be blamed for this in Galloway. At least, let me accompany you with half a dozen men."

"Nay," said the Earl, "such suspicion were a poor return for the Chancellor's putting himself
in our hands all the days we spent with him at his Castle of Crichton. To your lodgings, Sholto,
and give God thanks if there be therein a pretty maid or a dame complaisant, according to the
wont of young squires and men-at-arms."

In this fashion rode the Earl of Douglas to take his first dinner in the Castle of Edinburgh.
And Sholto MacKim went behind him, no man saying him nay. For his master had eyes only for
one face, and that he could not see.

"But I shall find her yet," he said over and over in his heart. It was but a boyish heart,
and simple, too; but all so brave and high that the gallantest and greatest gentleman in the
world had not one like to it for loyalty and courage.

CHAPTER XXXIII

THE BLACK BULL'S HEAD

The banqueting-hall of Edinburgh Castle, but lately out of artificers' hands, was a noble oblong
chamber reaching from side to side of the south-looking keep, begun by James I. It was decorated
in the French manner with oak ceilings and panellings, all bossed and cornered with massive
silver-gilt mouldings.

Save in the ordering of the repast itself there was a marked absence of ostentation. Only a
soldier or two could be seen, mostly on guard at the outer gates, and Sholto, who till now
had been uneasy and fearful for his master, became gradually more reassured when he saw with
what care every want of the Earl and his brother was attended to, and if possible even forestalled.

The young King was in jubilant spirits, and could scarcely be persuaded to let the brothers
Douglas remain a moment alone. He was resolved, he said, to have his bed brought into their
chamber that he might talk to them all night of tourneys and noble deeds of arms. Never had
he met with any whom he loved so much, and on their part the young Lords of Douglas became
boys again, in this atmosphere of frank and boyish admiration.

It was a state banquet to which they sat down. That is, there was no hungry crowd of hangers-on
clustered below the salt. To each gentleman was allotted a silver trenchard for his own use,
instead of one betwixt two as was the custom. The service was ordered in the French manner,
and there was manifest through all a quiet observance and good taste which won upon the Earl
of Douglas. Nevertheless, his eyes still continued to range this way and that through the castle,
scanning each tower, glancing up at every balcony and archway, in search of the Lady Sybilla.

In the banquet-hall the little King sat on his high chair in the midst, with the brothers of
Douglas one on either side of him. He spoke loudly and confidently after the manner of a pampered
boy of high spirits.

"I will soon come and visit you in return at the Castle of Thrieve. The Lady Sybilla hath told
me how strong it is and how splendid are the tourneys there, as grand, she swears, as those
of France."

"The Lady Sybilla is peradventure gone to her own land?" ventured Douglas, not wishing to ask
a more direct question. He spoke freely, however, on all other subjects with the King, laughing
and talking mostly with him, and finding little to say to the tutor Livingston or the Chancellor,
who, either from humility or from fear, had taken care to interpose half a dozen knights between
himself and his late guests.

"Nay," cried the young King, looking querulously at his tutor, "but, indeed, I wot not what
they have done with my pretty gossip, Sybilla; I have not seen her for three weeks, save for
a moment this morning. And before she went away she promised to teach me to dance a coranto
in the French manner, and the trick of the handkerchief to hide a dagger in the hand."

As the Earl listened to the boy's prattle, he became more and more convinced that the Marshal
de Retz, having in some way discovered their affection for each other, had removed Sybilla
out of his reach. Her letter, indeed, showed clearly that she was in fear of ill-treatment
both for himself and for her.

The banquet passed with courtesies much more elaborate than was usual in Scotland, but which
indicated the great respect in which the Douglases were held. Between each course a servant
clad in the royal colours presented a golden salver filled with clear water for the guests
to wash their hands. Through the interstices of the ceiling strains of music filtered down
from musicians hidden somewhere above, which sounded curiously soothing and far away.

The Chancellor bowed and drank every few minutes to the health of the Earl and his brother
across the board, while the tutor sat smiling upon all with the polish of a professional courtier.
In his high seat at the table end the little King chatted incessantly of the times when he
could do as he pleased, and when he and his cousin of Douglas would ride together to battle
and tourney, or feast together in hall.

"Be sure, then, I will not keep all these grey-beard sorners about me," he said, lowering his
voice cautiously; "I will only have young gallant men like you and David there. But what comes
here?"

There was a stir among the servitors at the upper end of the room. Sholto, who stood behind
his master's chair, heard the skirl of the war-pipes approach nearer. It grew louder, more
insistent, finally almost oppressive. The doors at either end were filled with armed men. They
filed silently into the hall in dark armour, all carrying shining Lochaber axes.

Douglas leaned back in his chair, and looked nonchalantly on like a spectator of a pageant.
He continued to talk to the King easily and calmly, as if he were in his own Castle of Thrieve.
But Sholto saw the white and ghastly look on the face of the Chancellor, and noted his hands
nervously grip the table. He observed him also lean across and confer with Livingston, who
nodded like one that agrees that the moment of action has come.

At the upper end of the hall were wide folding doors which till now had been shut. These were
opened swiftly, either half falling back to the wall. And through the archway came two servitors
in black habits, carrying between them on a huge platter of silver a black bull's head, ghastly
and ominous even in death, with staring eyeballs and matted frontlet of ensanguined hair.

"Treachery!" instantly cried Sholto, and ere the men could approach he had drawn his sword
and stood ready to do battle for his lord. For throughout all Scotland a bull's head served
at table is the symbol of death.

The Earl did not move or speak. He watched the progress of the men in black, who staggered
under their heavy burden. David also had risen to his feet with his hand on his sword, but
William Douglas sat still. Alarm, wonder, and anxiety chased each other across the face of
the young King.

"What is this, Chancellor--why is the room filled with armed men?" he cried.

But Crichton had withdrawn himself behind the partisans of his soldiers, and down the long
table there was not a man but had risen and bared his sword. Every eye was turned upon the
young Earl. A score of men-at-arms came forward to seize him.

"Stand back on your lives!" cried Sholto, sweeping his blade about him to keep a space clear
about his youthful master.

But still the Earl William sat calm and unmoved, though all others had risen to their feet
and held arms in their hands.

"What means this mumming?" he said, high and clear. "If a mystery is to be played, surely it
were better to put it off till after dinner."

Then through the open doorway came a voice piercing and reedy.

"The play is played indeed, William of Douglas, and the lion is now safe in the power of the
dogs. How like you our kennel, most mighty lion?"

It was the voice of the Chancellor Crichton.

The young King came running from his place and threw his arms about the Earl's neck.

"I am the King," he cried; "not one of you shall touch or hurt my cousin Douglas!"

"Stand back, James," said the tutor Livingston; "the Douglas is a traitor, and you shall never
reign while he rules. He and his brother must be tried for treason. They have claimed the King's
throne, and usurped his authority."

Sholto MacKim turned about. In all that threatening array of armed men no friendly eye met
his, and none of all he had trusted drew a blade for the Douglas. Sholto stood calculating
the chances. To die like a man was easy, but how to die to some purpose seemed more difficult.
He saw the King with his arm about the neck of William Douglas, who remained quietly in his
place with a pale but assured countenance.

It was Sholto's only chance. With his left hand he seized the young King by the collar of his
doublet, and set the point of his sword to his back between the shoulder-blades.

"Now," he cried, "let a man lay hand on my Lord Douglas and I will slay the King!"

At this there was great consternation, and but for fear of Sholto's keeping his word half a
score would have rushed forward to the assistance of the boy. The scream of a woman from some
concealed portal showed that the Queen Mother was waiting to witness the downfall of the mighty
house which, as she had been taught, alone threatened her boy's throne.

Sholto's arm was already drawn back for the thrust, when the voice of the Earl of Douglas was
heard. He had risen to his feet, and now stood easy and careless as ever, with his thumb in
the blue silken sash which girt his waist.

"Sholto," he said calmly, "you forget your place. Let the King go instantly, and ask his Majesty's
pardon. Set your sword again in its sheath. I am your lord. I dubbed you knight. Do as I command
you."

Most unwillingly Sholto did as he was bidden, and the King, instead of withdrawing, placed
himself still closer to William of Douglas.

"And now," cried the Earl, facing the array of armed men who thronged the banquet-hall, "what
would ye with the Douglas? Do ye mean my death, as by the Bull's Head here on the table ye
would have me believe?"

"For black treason do we apprehend you, Earl of Douglas," creaked the voice of the Chancellor,
still speaking from behind his array of men-at-arms, "and because you have set yourself above
the King. But we are no butchers, and trial shall ye have by your peers."

"And who in this place are the peers of the Earl of Douglas?" said the young man, haughtily.

"I will not bandy words with you, my Lord Douglas. You are overmastered. Yield yourself, therefore,
as indeed you must without remeed. Deliver your weapons and submit; 'tis our will."

"My brave Chancellor," said the Earl William, still in a voice of pleasant irony, "you have
well chosen your time to shame yourself. We are your invited guests, and the guests of the
King of Scotland. We are here unarmed, sitting at meat with you in your own house. We have
come hither unattended, trusting to the honour of these noble knights and gentlemen. Therefore
my brother and I have no swords to deliver. But if, being honourable men, you stand, as is
natural, upon a nice punctilio, I can satisfy you."

He turned again to Sholto MacKim.

"Give me your sword," he said. "'Tis better I should render it than you."

With great unwillingness the captain of the guard of Thrieve did as he was bidden. The Earl
reversed it in his hand and held it by the point.

"And now, my Lord Chancellor, I deliver you a Douglas sword, depending upon the word of an
honourable man and the invitation of the King of Scotland."

But even so the chancellor would not advance from behind the cover of his soldiery, and the
Earl looked around for some one to whom to surrender.

"Will you then appoint one of your knights to whom I may deliver this weapon? Is there none
who will dare to come near even the hilt of a Douglas sword? Here then, Sholto, break it over
your knee and cast it upon the board as a witness against all treachery."

Sholto did as he was told, breaking his sword and casting the pieces upon the table in the
place where the King of Scots had sat.

"And now, my lords, I am ready," said the Earl, and his brother David stood up beside him,
looking as they faced the unbroken ring of their foes the two noblest and gallantest youths
in Scotland.

At this the King caught Lord William by the hand, and, lifting up his voice, wept aloud with
the sudden breaking lamentation of a child.

"My cousin, my dear cousin Douglas," he cried, "they shall not harm you, I swear it on my faith
as a King."

At last an officer of the Chancellor's guard mustered courage to approach the Earl of Douglas,
and, saluting, he motioned him to follow. This, with his head erect, and his usual easy grace,
he did, David walking abreast of him. And Sholto, with all his heart filled with the deadly
chill of hopelessness, followed them through the sullen ranks of the traitors.

And even as he went Earl Douglas looked about him every way that he might see once more her
for whose sake he had adventured within the portals of death.

CHAPTER XXXIV

BETRAYED WITH A KISS

The earl and his brother were incarcerated in the lower chamber of the High Keep called David's
Tower, which rose next in order eastward from the banqueting-hall, following the line of the
battlements.

Beneath, the rock on which the castle was built fell away towards the Nor' Loch in a precipice
so steep that no descent was to be thought of--and this indeed was the chief defence of the
prison, for the window of the chamber was large and opened easily according to the French fashion.

"I pray that you permit my young knight, Sir Sholto MacKim, to accompany me," said the Earl
to the officer who conducted them to their prison-house.

"I have no orders concerning him," said the man, gruffly, but nevertheless permitted Sholto
to enter after the Earl and his brother.

The chamber was bare save for a prie-dieu in the angle of the wall, at which the Douglas looked
with a strange smile upon his face.

"Right à propos," said he; "they have need of religion in this house of traitors."

David Douglas went to the window-seat of low stone, and bent his head into his hands. He was
but a boy and life was sweet to him, for he had just begun to taste the apple and to dream
of the forbidden fruit. He held his head down and was silent a space. Then suddenly he sobbed
aloud with a quick, gasping noise, startling enough in that still place.

"For God's dear sake, David laddie," said his brother, going over to him, placing his hand
upon his shoulder, "be silent. They will think that we are afraid."

The boy stilled himself instantly at the word, and looked up at his brother with a pale sort
of smile.

"No, William, I am not afraid, and if indeed we must die I will not disgrace you. Be never
feared of that. Yet I thought on our mother's loneliness. She will miss me sore, for she fleeched
and pled with me not to come, yet I would not listen to her."

Sholto stood by the door, erect as if on duty at Thrieve.

"Come and sit with us," said the Earl William kindly to him, "we are no more master and servant,
earl and esquire. We are but three youths that are to die together, and the axe's edge levels
all. You, Sholto, are in some good chance to live the longest of the three by some half score
of minutes. I am glad I made you a knight on the field of honour, Sir Sholto, for then they
cannot hang you to a bough, like a varlet caught stealing the King's venison."

Sholto slowly came over to the window-seat and stood there respectfully as before, with his
arms straight at his side, feeling more than anything else the lack of his sword-hilt to set
his right hand upon.

"Nay, but do as I bid you," said the Earl, looking up at him; "sit down, Sholto."

And Sholto sat on the window-seat and looked forth upon the lights leaping out one after another
down among the crowded gables of the town as this and that burgher lit lamp or lantern at the
nearing of the hour of supper.

Far away over the shore-lands the narrow strip of the Forth showed amethystine and mysterious,
and farther out still the coast of Fife lay in a sort of opaline haze.

"I wonder," said William Douglas, after a long pause, "what they have done with our good lads.
Had they been taken or perished we had surely heard more noise, I warrant. Two score lads of
Galloway would not give up their arms without a tulzie for it." 

It was her young son had seen entering the harbor when he was going to take charge the schooner
to carry fuel to German submarines.

VIII

The young Telemachus

Whenever the Mare Nostrum back to Barcelona, ​​Esteban Ferragut felt a sense glare, just as if
it was opened a glorious window in his dark existence child and family monotonous.

No longer wandering the harbor, admiring from afar the great ocean liners anchored off the Columbus
monument or cargo vapors that lined the commercial docks. A vessel important was his absolute
property for several weeks. The captain and officers spent ground
time with their families.

Toni, the second was the only one who slept on board. Many of the sailors asked permission to
live in the city, and the steam is entrusted to Caragol Uncle guard with half a dozen men for
daily cleaning.

The small Ferragut could be under the illusion that he was the captain of the Mare Nostrum. He moved imagining
that the bridge was braving a storm; examining instruments water
with a severity of knowledgeable expert, ran all departments habitable
ship, down to the cellars, which aireaban, open, pending charge, and
finally got into the boat service, undoing of the scale, to row a
few hours with more satisfaction Yoles that in light of the Race Club.

His visits ended in the kitchen, invited by his uncle Caragol, who
treated him with a familiarity paternal.

The young oarsman was sweating. "A refresquet ?...» and preparing the sweet mixture, I did fall
to men of a single jump in the nebulosity of intoxication.

Stephen had much the "soft" chef.

His imagination, excited by the frequent Travel reading novels had made him conceive a type of
marine heroic, daring, philanderer, and able to swallow the beverage jars incendiary without blinking.
He wanted If so, every good mariner should drink.

While on the ground did not know other spirits that the innocent and sweet kept by his mother
family holiday once trod the deck of the ship felt the need for fluids
alcoholics, to show that he was a man.

"There was a beverage in the world that could with him ... And the second "refresh" the uncle
was sunk in a placid Caragol nirvana, seeing all pink and considerably enlarged: the sea, nearby
ships, the docks and the mountain of Montjuic, which served as background.

The cook, to behold with his eyes lovingly sick, he thought he had a jump dozen years ago and is
still in Valencia talking to the other Ferragut that University escape to paddle in the harbor.
Almost came to believe that he had lived twice.

The boy listened to the complaints, interrupting with solemn advice. This Ferragut fifteen years
of life showed discontent. He was a man, and had to live among women: his mother and two nieces
who accompanied him making lace, as she had accompanied once to his
mother Dona Cristina.

I wanted to be a sailor, and he was forced to study the Baccalaureate unfriendly materials.
Can a captain needs to know Latin? ...

Wanted to end his life as a student, to become a pilot and follow the practices in the bridge
next to his father. Maybe you'll command the thirty years or another ship Mare Nostrum similar.

Meanwhile,
the lure of the sea drew him away from the classroom, going to see
Caragol at the same time the roll call teachers to the students, noting
their absence.

The old man and his protégé are recruited in the kitchen with a responsible concern. Steps and voices
on the cover altered their conversation. "Hide!"

And Stephen crawled under a table or hidden in the storeroom of the provisions, while the cook
came out to meet the newcomer with a seraphic face.

Sometimes it was Toni, and the boy ventured out, with his silence. It also will wanted and approved
of his distaste for the books.

If from time to time was the captain who came to the ship for a few
moments, he spoke Caragol obstructing the door with his body, while
smiling slyly.

For Stephen, the two most worthy of admiration were the sea and his father. All heroes novelistic
that from the pages of the books had gone to stay in his imagination had the face and gestures
of Captain Ferragut.

As a child he had seen sometimes to mourn his mother with sad resignation.

Years later, to meet with his precocious little boy watched the relationships between men and women,
he felt that all these tears should be motivated by indiscretions
and infidelities Far navigator.

He loved his mother with a passion only child and spoiled, but not
least the captain admired, excusing all sins that might commit.

His father was the bravest man and most beautiful land. So he saw it. And one day, examining the
drawers in his cabin, found several photographs of women wearing the foot the names of distant
countries, his admiration was even larger.

All must be mad with love for the captain of the Mare Nostrum. Ay! For more than him to do
to be a man, never get to catch up with the winner to had given the existence ...

When the ship came to Barcelona without their owner around Naples, the son of Ferragut experienced no
surprise.

Toni, who was always short, lavished on this occasion. Captain Ferragut had been there for a business,
but would soon return. His second will expected at any moment.

Perhaps hiciese land travel to get there first.

Esteban was amazed to see that his mother did not accept this absence as an insignificant event.
The good lady was concerned and the watery eyes.

Her feminine instinct made him sensed something wrong with the delay of her husband.

In the afternoon, when he visited, as usual, his former love the professor,
the two spoke slowly, with measured words, but understood his eyes
during the long intervals of silence.

Pedro arrived at the pinnacle of his illustrious career with the possession
of a professorship at the Institute Barcelona, ​​visiting every afternoon
to tape, and a half hours from his room exactly clockwork.

Not the slightest thought of impurity professor never stirred.

The past had forgotten ... But he needed daily to see the captain's wife knitting lace between
two young nieces as she had seen years before the widow of Ferragut.

Let him know the most important events in Barcelona and around the world, discussing them the future
destiny of Stephen, he heard her sweet voice with rapture, to attach great importance to the
details of domestic economy or to the descriptions of religious holidays,
just because it was she who had such accounts.

Often remained in a long silence. Don Pedro represented patience, humor equal respect silent, quiet
and clean the house, lost his composure only monastic the present owner for a few days, including
two trips.

Tape had been accustomed to the visits of Professor.

By checking the clock half past three sensed his footsteps on the stairs.

If any evening did not arrive, the sweet Penépole suffered a disappointment.

- What will happen to Don Pedro? - Asked with concern to his nieces.

This question was sometimes extended to the child, but Stephen, without hating the visitor liked
him very little.

Don Pedro belonged to the group of those gentlemen of the Institute
that the government paid for teaser with their explanations and their
reviews to the youth.

Still remembered two years had happened in his chair, and in a chamber of torture, suffering the
punishment of Latin. He was also a coward, always afraid and did not dare take cold to go out
on days cloudy if the umbrella was missing.

He spoke of you brave men.

- I do not know his mother answered ...-- -.

May be stuck in bed, with seven headscarves.

When I returned Don Pedro, the house resumed its normal slow clock and safe. Doña Film, from
consultation to consultation, he had finally consider indispensable
for your cooperation.

Professor sweetly made up for the husband's authority traveler, he had to represent the head of
the family in all foreign affairs ... I often looked forward to Ferragut's wife for advice urgently,
and he issued his opinion in a slow voice, after much reflection.

Esteban was intolerable that this man, who was but a distant relative of grandmother, meddling
in the affairs of the house, trying to address him as a father. But irritated him even more
to see in a good mood and with claims of funny.

He was angry that flames Penépole his mother and him Telemachus ... "Uncle lateral and heavy!"

The
young Telemachus did not hesitate in their revenge. Small interrupted their diversions for
"Work" in the hall, next to the neighbor to the door hanger. And the poor professor was dented
his top hat, hair in disarray, or in carrying out the Haldas several
spit coat.

Now the boy was confined to ignore its existence, going before him without giving him, greeting him
only when his mother told him to.

The day brought news of the return of steam without their captain, Don Pedro made the visit longer
than usual.

Tape shed two tears on the laces, but had to cut her tears, overcome by the good sense to your
counselor.

- Why mourn and head warm with so many unfounded assumptions? ... What you should do, my dear,
is to call that Toni is the second ship. He should know all ... Maybe tell you the truth.

Stephen received the commission to seek the next day, and could see the concern Toni experienced
knowing that he wanted to talk Dona Cinta. Ship left the gloomy silence, as if it leads to death suffer
torture. Then she sang quietly, it was in The indication of serious concern.

Unable to attend the young Telemachus to the interview, but he hung near the door closed overheard some
words louder than they slipped through the cracks. His mother was the one who spoke more often.
Toni dully repeating the same excuses: "I do not know. The captain is going to get from one point
to another ... "But to look beyond the classroom and the house, broke his anger against himself,
against his character that he knew damn lie, against all women, bad
and good.

Thought he had said too much. This lady had judge's ability to extract the words.

At night, at the dinner, the mother just gasped. His fingers reported a nervous trembling to
the plates and forks. Looked at her son with tragic commiseration as if he sensed enormous misfortunes
that were about to collapse on his head.

Opposed a silence desperate to Stephen's questions, and finally exclaimed:

- Your father left us! ... Your father has forgotten us! ...

And left the room to hide the tears that had flowed into his eyelids.

The boy slept a little uneasy, but fell asleep. The admiration he felt for his father and some
strong solidarity with copies of their sex made him take some little
tears.

Women Talking Dirty! His mother could not be the wife of an extraordinary man as Captain Ferragut.
He, who was a man in spite of its short tenure, he was going to intervene
in the case to clarify the truth.

When Toni, from the deck of the ship, saw him move through the dock the next morning, was tempted
to hide ... "Doña tape, which was called for questioning again !...»

But was relieved to tell the boy who came for their willingness to spend some time in Mare nostrum. Still,
wanted to avoid his presence, as if afraid some careless talk with
him, and pretended to work in the cellars.

Then came the ship, going to visit a friend vapor in a remote.

Stephen went into the kitchen, calling cheerfully to Uncle Caragol. Nor was it the same. His
eyes were moist and red looked at the boy with an extraordinary tenderness.

Suddenly stopped language, with a look of concern on his face.

Looked undecided about him, as if he feared it was to open a cliff
at his feet.

Never forgot the respect due to every visitor to your domains, and
prepared two "soft."

For the first time Stephen was about to give away to this return trip. Previous days, by seems unlikely
that the fact had not even thought to make one of his delirious concoctions. The return of Naples
to Barcelona had been sad, the vessel had a funereal atmosphere without its owner.

For all these reasons, it was the hand to the extent Caragol, lavishing
the shank to the liquid took snuff color.

Drank ... The young Telemachus began to speak of his father when only vessels guarding the half
of the "refresh" and the cook waved both hands in the air, giving a grunt which meant their desire
not to deal with the absence of captain.

- Your father will return, Estevet - added -. Return, but do not know when. Surely later ensuring Toni.

And
meaning no more, swallowed the rest of the vessel, engaged in making
a second "drink" rushed for lost time.

Little by little they broke the barrier prudent containing his verbosity, and spoke with the
same abandoned forever, but his flow of words drew no accurate news.

Caragol preached moral Ferragut's son, a moral in his own way, interrupted by frequent touch
the glass.

- Esteve, my son, your father is very respectful. Imitate as a seaman. Be good and righteous to
men who send ... but women fleeing!

Women! ... There was no better theme for pious drunken eloquence. The world infused pity. Everything
was ruled by the infernal attraction to the female. Men worked, fought, they wanted to be rich or
famous, all to win possession of a piece of meat, the most filthy and shameful of the human
body.

- Watch how it will be, Estevet that even in food animals is not known chef who use it. I always
throw it away ... Believe me, my son: do not imitate your father
about it.

The old man had said too much to go back, and had to go dropping everything to pieces Left. So
he learned that Captain Stephen walked in an affair with a woman
from Naples, and had stayed there pretending business, but in reality
dominated by the influence of this woman.

- Is it pretty?

"- Asked the boy eagerly.

- Gorgeous - said Caragol -. And some smells!

... Noise and fine clothes! ...

Telemachus shook with a contradictory feeling of pride and envy. He admired his father again,
but this admiration only lasted a few moments. A new idea seized
him, while the cook was still talking.

- Do not come yet.

I know what these women are elegant and full of incense: true interlocking nails demons when
they grab and you have to cut off their hands to let go ... And the
ship without working, as if he were stranded, while others are filled
with gold!

... Believe me, my son in the world only this is true.

And finally to drink in one gulp all that remained of the second vessel.

Meanwhile, the boy was taking shape in his mind to an idea suggested by sweet intoxication. If he were
to Naples to bring his father! ...

At this point everything seemed possible. The world was rosy, as it always glass in hand watching
the guy next Caragol. The obstacles were soft, everything is arranged with prodigious ease, the
men could walk to falls.

But hours later, when his thought was seductive cloudless, was afraid
remembering of his father.

How you would get to see him get there ... What excuse him of his presence in Naples? ... Trembled
evoking the image of his frown and his eyes are red.

The next day, a sudden confidence overcame this concern.

He remembered the captain as he had seen a few times to celebrate
from the deck of his exploits rower at the port of Barcelona or to
discuss with friends the intelligence and strength your child.

The father of the hero image in his memory now emerged with kind eyes and a smile that seemed
to shake like a fresh wind, the forest of his beard.

I would tell the whole truth. We do know that coming to Naples to take him as a good comrade
who aids another in danger. Perhaps irritated and give him a blow,
but he achieve his purpose.

Ferragut's character was revived in him with all the strength of a decisive argument. If travel
was absurd and dangerous ... Better! Much better! This was enough to undertake it. He was a man,
and should not know fear.

For two weeks to prepare their escape. I had never done a big trip. Only once had accompanied
his father on a quick business trip to Marseilles.

It was already time to come out to run the world a man like him, who knew from his reading almost
all the peoples of land.

The money did not care.

Doña tape had it in abundance, and it was easy to find your bunch keys. A vapor old and slow,
sent by a friend of his father, had just entered the port and sailed the next day to Italy.

This
sailor's son accepted his comrade without travel papers. The fix the irregular with friends
in Genoa. Among these services were captains, and Ulises Ferragut, which waiting for his son in
Naples - Esteban said so - was not going to waste time in vain a clerical formalities.

Telemachus, a thousand pesetas in his pocket a sewing learned that
his mother served safe, he embarked the next day.

A small suitcase taken from her home with slow and clever tricks was all his luggage.

From Genoa he went to Rome, and thence to Naples, with the boldness of innocence, using words
Spanish and Catalan to reinforce a short Italian lexical representations acquired operetta.
The only positive report held him on his journey of adventure was
the name Hostels the shore of St. Lucia had given Caragol as a residence
of his father.

Seek this in vain for several days. He visited Naples to the agents, which imagine the captain
back to his country a long time.

Not finding was afraid. Should already be in Barcelona, ​​and what
had begun as a heroic journey was going to be a naughty teen drain.
He remembered his mother, maybe cry to those hours re-reading the
letter he had left to announce In order to escape. 

Also came suddenly
the intervention of Italy in the war, an event that everyone expected,
but many were still distant. What was left to do in this country?
... And one morning there disappeared.

As the hotel porter could
not say more, the father, once the first impression surprise, he thought
about the advisability of visiting the home consignee. Perhaps there
should give you other news.

The war was the only thing interesting
to this office. But Ferragut, ship owner and former client, was led
by the director to find those employees who had received to Esteban.

Do
not know much. Vaguely remembered a young Spanish man who claimed
to be the son of Captain asking this news. His last visit was two
days earlier. Torn between returning to his country by rail or embark
on one of the three ships that were in port ready to leave for Marseilles.

-
I think it has gone by train - said one employee.

Another of them
supported his companion with strong affirmation to attract the eye
of the boss. Was sure of his ground game. He himself had helped to
calculate what it would cost the trip to Barcelona.

Ferragut not
want to know more. I needed to leave soon. This trip unexplained his
son was for him a regret and a cause for alarm. What happened in your
home?

The office manager told a French steamer that came that afternoon
to Marseille from Suez. The fix was in charge of all matters relating
to recommend its passage and Captain. There were only four hours for
the departure of the ship, and Ulysses, after collecting your bags
and send them on board, took a last walk by all the places he had
lived with Freya. Goodbye, gardens of the Villa Nazionale, white Aquarius!
... Goodbye, albergo! ...

The unexplained presence of his son in
Naples had softened the disappointment of the flight German. He thought
sadly of lost love, but thought at the same time, with painful hesitation,
as you might see upon entering your home.

Shortly before sunset the
French steamer sailed. For many years sailed Ulysses as a mere passenger.
Wandered bewildered through the crowd covers travel. The force of
habit drew him to the bridge, talking to the captain and officers,
which appreciated at the first words his professional merit.

The
consideration that was but an intruder on this site, the discomfort
of being on a bridge that could not give any orders, made him descend
to the lower decks, examining groups of passengers. French were mostly
coming from the Indo China. In the bow and stern were housed Asian
shooters four companies, small yellow, with slanting eyes and a voice
like the meowing of cats. Iban to war. Its officers were living in
cabins amidships, bringing with them their families, who had taken
an exotic with long tenure in the colonies.

Ulysses saw ladies dressed
in white getting fan, lying on couches and their little chinoiserie
pages; military saw tanned and lean, sickly-looking, which seemed
galvanized the war that tore at the Asian nap, and girls, many girls,
happy to go to France, the country of his dreams, forgetting the joy
that parents initiated such time to death.

Navigation could not be
better. The Mediterranean was a plain silver in the light of moon.
Invisible coast came warm breaths of perfume country. Groups memory
were covered with a selfish satisfaction of the great dangers that
face people to embark on the North Sea, full of German submarines.
Fortunately, the Mediterranean was free from such a calamity. The
English were well guarded gate of Gibraltar, and yet he was a calm
lake dominated by allies.

The ambassador turned with a fleering triumph.

"You hear, William of Douglas," he said, "you hear what your true love says!"

Then it was that, with the calm air and steady voice of a great gentleman, William Douglas
answered, "I hear, but I do not believe."

A spasm of joy passed over the countenance of the Lady Sybilla. She half sprang towards her
lover as if to clasp him in her arms.

But in the midst, between intent and act, she restrained herself.

"No, I am not worthy," she said. And again, and lower, like a lamentation, "I am not worthy!"

Then, while all watched eagerly, the marshal rose from his seat to his full height.

"Girl--look at me!" he cried in a loud and terrible voice. But Sybilla did not seem to hear him.

She was looking at the Earl, and her eyes were great and grey and vague.

"Listen, my true lord, and then hate me if you will," she said; "listen, William of Douglas.
Never before have I found in all the world one man true to the core. I did not believe that
such an one lived. Hear this and then turn from me in loathing.

"For the sake of this man's life, forfeit ten times over" (she pointed, as she spoke, at the
marshal), "to whom, by the powers of hell, my soul is bound, I came at the bidding of the King
of France and of this man, my master, to compass the destruction of the Earl of Douglas. Our
King's son desired his duchy, and promised to this man pardon for his evil deeds. I came to
satisfy them both. On my guilty head be the punishment. It is true that I cozened and led you
on. It is true that at Castle Thrieve I deceived you, knowing well that which would happen.
I knew to what you would follow me, and for the sake of the evil wrought by your fathers, I
was glad. But afterwards at Crichton, when, in the woods by the waterside, I told you that
I loved you, I did not lie. I did love you then. And by God's grace I do love you now--yea,
before all men I declare it. Once for a season of glorious forgetting, all too brief, I was
yours to love, now I am yours to hate and to despise. I tried to save you, but though you had
my warning you would not go back or forget me. Now it is too late!"

As she spoke over the face of William Douglas there had come a glow--the red blood flooding
up and routing the white determined pallor of his cheek.

"My lady," he answered her, gently, "be not grieved for a little thing that is past. That you
love me truly is enough. I ask for no more, least of all for pity. I have not lived long. I
have not had time allotted me wherein to do great things, but for your sake I can die as well
as any! You have given me of your love, and of the flower thereof. I am glad. That you have
loved me was my crown of life. Now it remains but to pay a little price soon paid, for a joy
exceeding great."

But the Chancellor had had enough of this. He rose, and, stretching forth his hand towards
the barrier, he said: "William of Douglas, you and your brother are condemned to instant death
as enemies of the King and his ministers. Soldiers, do your duty. Lead them forth to the block!"

And with these words he left the dais, followed by Sir Alexander Livingston. The girl stood
in the place whence she had spoken her last words. Then, as the men-at-arms went shamefacedly
to take the Earl by the arm, she suddenly threw herself across the platform, leaped lightly
over the barrier, and fell into his arms.

"William, once I would have betrayed you," she said, "but now I love you. I will die with you--or
by the great God I will live to avenge you."

"Hush, sweetheart," said William Douglas, touching her brow gently with his lips, and putting
her into the arms of an officer of the court whom her uncle had sent to remove her. "Fear not
for me! Death is swift and easy. I expected nothing else. That you love me is enough! Dear
love, fare thee well!"

But the girl heard him not. She had fainted in the arms that held her. Yet the Marshal de Retz
had still more for her to suffer. He stood beside her and dashed water upon her till she awoke,
that she might see that which remained to be done.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a scene dreary beyond all power of words to tell it, when into the courtyard of the
Castle of Edinburgh they brought the two noble young men forth to die. The sun had long risen,
but the first flush of broad morning sunshine still lingered upon the low platform on which
stood the block, and beside it the headsman sullenly waiting to do his appointed work.

The young Lords of Douglas came out looking brave and handsome as bridegrooms on a day of betrothing.
William had once more his hand on David's shoulder, his other rested carelessly on his thigh
as his custom was. The brothers were bareheaded, and to the eyes of those who looked on they
seemed to be conversing together of light matters of love and ladies' favours.

High above upon a balcony, hung like an iron cage upon the castle wall, appeared the Chancellor
and the tutor. The young King was with them, weeping and crying out, "Do nothing to my dear
cousins--I command you--I am the King!"

But the tutor roughly bade him be still, telling him that he would never reign if these young
men lived, and presently another came there and stood beside him. The Marshal de Retz it was,
who, with a fiendish smile upon his sleek parchment face, conducted the Lady Sybilla to see
the end. But it was a good end to see, and nobler far than most lives that are lived to fourscore
years.

The brothers embraced as they came to the block, kneeled down, and said a short prayer like
Christians of a good house. So great was their enemies' haste that they were not allowed even
a priest to shrive them, but they did what they could.

The executioner motioned first to David. An attendant brought him the heading cup of wine,
which it was the custom to offer to those about to die upon the scaffold.

"Drink it not," said Earl William, "lest they say it was drugged."

And David Douglas bowed his head upon the block, being only in the fifteenth year of his age.

"Farewell, brother," he said, "be not long after me. It is a darksome road to travel so young."

"Fear not, Davie lad," said William Douglas, tenderly, "I will overtake you ere you be through
the first gate."

He turned a little aside that he might not see his brother die, and even as he did so he saw
the Lady Sybilla lean upon the balcony paler than the dead.

Then when it came to his turn they offered the Earl William also the heading cup filled with
the rich wine of Touraine, his own fair province that he was never to see.

He lifted the cup high in his right hand with a knightly and courtly gesture. Looking towards
the balcony whereon stood the Lady Sybilla, he bowed to her.

"I drink to you, my lady and my love," he cried, in a voice loud and clear.

Then, touching but the rim of the goblet with his lips, he poured out the red wine upon the ground.

       *       *       *       *       *

And thus passed the gallantest gentleman and truest lover in whom God ever put heart of grace
to live courteously and die greatly, keeping his faith in his lady even against herself, and
holding death itself sweet because that in death she loved him.

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE RISING OF THE DOUGLASES

It was upon the Earl's own charger, Black Darnaway, that Sholto rode southward to raise to
their chief's assistance the greatest and compactest clan that ever, even in Scotland, had
done the bidding of one man.

The young man's heart was high and hopeful within him. The King's guardians dared not, so he
told himself, let aught befall the puissant Douglases in the Castle of Edinburgh, without trial
and under cover of the most courteous hospitality.

"Try the Earl of Douglas!" so Sholto thought within him. He laughed at the notion. "Why, Earl
William could by a word bring a hundred thousand men of Galloway and the Marches to make a
fitting jury."

So he meditated, his thoughts running fast and fiery to the beating of Black Darnaway's feet
as he climbed the heathery slopes which led towards Douglasdale. Day was breaking as he rode
down to the town of Lanark yet asleep and smokeless in the caller airs of the morn. At the
gates of this frontier town he delivered his first summons of feudality. For the burghers of
Lanark were liegemen of the Douglases of Douglasdale, and were (though not with much good-will)
bound to furnish service at call.

Sholto had some difficulty in making himself heard athwart the ponderous wooden gates, bossed
with leather and studded with iron. At first he shouted angrily to the silences, but presently
nearer and nearer came a bellow as of a brazen bull, thunderous and far echoing.

"Fower o' the clock and a braw, braw morning."

It was Grice Elshioner, watchman of the town of Lanark, evidencing to the magistrates and lieges
thereof that he was earning his three shillings in the week--a handsome wage in these hard
times, and one well able to provide belly-timber for himself and also for the wife and weans
who, dwelling in a close off the High-street, were called by his name.

Sholto thundered again upon the rugged portal.

"Open there! Open, I say, in the name of the Earl of Douglas!"

"Fower o' the morning! Lord, what's a' the steer? In the name o' the Yerl o' Douglas! But wha
kens that it isna the English? Na, na, Grice Elshioner opens not to every night-raking loon
that likes to cry the name o' the Yerl o' Douglas ower oor toon wa'!"

And Grice the valorous would have taken him off with a fresh, sleep-dispelling bellow had it
not been that he heard himself summoned in a voice that brooked no delay.

"Open, varlet of a watchman, or by Saint Bride I will have you swinging in half an hour from
the bars of your own portcullis. I who speak am Sholto MacKim, captain of the Earl's guard.
Every liegeman in the town must arm, mount, and ride this instant to Edinburgh. I give you
fair warning. You hear my words, I will not enter your rascal town. But if so much as one be
wanting at the muster, I swear in the name of my master that his house shall be burned with
fire and razed to the ground, and his wife be a widow or ever the cock craw on another Sabbath
morn!"

And without waiting for a reply Sholto laid the reins upon the neck of Black Darnaway and rode
on southward up Douglas Water to the home nest of the lordly race.

And behind him, with a wail in it, blared through the narrow streets the stormy voice of Grice
Elshioner, watchman of Lanark, "Wauken ye, wauken ye, burgesses a'! The Douglas hath sent to
bid ye mount and ride."

The birr of the war drum saluted Sholto's ears ere he had turned the corner of the town parks.
Then came the answering shouts of the burghers who thrust inquiring and indignant heads out
of gable windows and turret speering-holes.

"Birr!" continued the undaunted and insistent town drum.

"Harness your backs! Fill your bellies, and stand ready! The Douglas has need o' ye, lieges
a'!" cried the sonorous voice of the watch. Sholto smiled as he listened.

"I have at least set them on the alert. They will join the Douglasdale men as they pass by,
or we will show them reason why. But they of Lanark are ill-set town-ward men, and of no true
leal heart, save an it be to their own coffers. Yet will they march with us for fear of the
harrying hand and the burning roof tree."

The sun rose fair on the battlements of Douglas Castle as Sholto rode up to the level mead,
whereon a little company of men was exercising. He could hear the words of command cried gruffly
in the broad Galloway speech. Landless Jock was drilling his spearmen, and as the shining triple
line of points dropped to the "ready to receive," the old knight and former captain of the
Earl's guard came forward a little way to welcome his successor with what grace was at his command.

"Eh, siree, and what has brocht sic a braw young knight and grand frequenter o' courts sae
far as Douglas Castle? Could ye no even let puir Landless Jock hae the tilt-yaird here to exercise
his handfu' in, and keep his auld banes a wee while frae the rust and the green mould?"

But even as the crusty old soldier spoke these words, the white anxiety in Sholto's face struck
through his half-humorous complaint, and the words died on his lips in a perturbed "What is't--what
is't ava, laddie?"

Sholto told him in the fewest words.

"The Yerl and Dawvid in the power o' their hoose's enemies. Blessed Saint Anthony, and here
was I flighterin' and ragin' aboot my naethings. Here, lads, blaw the horn and cry the slogan.
Fetch the horses frae the stall and stand ready in your war gear within ten minutes by the
knock. Aye, faith, will we raise Douglasdale! Gang your ways to Gallowa'--there shall not a
man bide at hame this day. Certes, we wull that! Ca' in the by-gaun at Lanark--aye, lad, and,
gin the rascals are no willing or no ready, we will hang the provost and magistrates at their
ain door-cheeks to learn them to bide frae the cried assembly o' their liege lord!"

Sholto had done enough in Douglasdale. He turned north again on a yet more important errand.
It was forenoon full and broad when he halted before the little town of Strathaven, upon which
the Castle of Avondale looks down. It seemed of the greatest moment that the Avondale Douglases
should know that which had befallen their cousin. For no suspicion of treachery within the
house and name of Douglas itself touched with a shade of shadow the mind of Sholto MacKim.

He thundered at the town-ward port of the castle (to which a steep ascent led up from a narrow
vennel), where presently the outer guard soon crowded about him, listening to his story and
already fingering bowstring and examining rope-matches preparatory to the expected march upon
Edinburgh.

"I have not time to waste, comrades; I would see my lords," said Sholto. "I must see them instantly."

And even as he spoke there on the steps before him appeared the dark, handsome face and tall
but slightly stooping figure of William Douglas of Avondale. He stood with his hands clasped
behind his back, and his serious thought-weighted brow bent upon the concourse about Sholto.

With a push of his elbows this way and that, the young captain of the Earl's guard opened a
road through the press.

In short, emphatic sentences he told his tale, and at the name of prisonment and treachery
to his cousins the countenance of William Douglas grew stern and hard. His face twitched as
if the news came very near to him. He did not answer for a moment, but stood biting his lips
and glooming upon Sholto, as though the young man had been a prisoner waiting sentence of pit
or gallows for evil doing.

"I must see James concerning this ill news," he said when Sholto had finished telling him of
the Black Bull's Head at the Chancellor's banquet-table.

He turned to go within.

"My lord," said Sholto, "will you give me another horse, and let Darnaway rest in your stables?
I must instantly ride south again to raise Galloway."

"Order out all the horses which are ready caparisoned," commanded William of Avondale, "and
do you, Captain Sholto, take your choice of them."

He went within forthwith and there ensued a pause filled with the snorting and prancing of
steeds, as, mettlesome with oats and hay, they issued from their stalls, or with the grass
yet dewy about their noses were led in from the field. Darnaway took his leave of Sholto with
a backward neigh of regret, as if to say he was not yet tired of going on his master's service.

Then presently on the terrace above appeared lazy Lord James, busily buckling the straps of
his body-armour and talking hotly the while with his brother William.

"I care not even whether our father--" he cried aloud ere, with a restraining hand upon his
wrist, his elder brother could succeed in stopping him.

"Hush, James," he said, "at least be mindful of those that stand around."

"I care not, I tell you, William," cried the headstrong youth, squaring his shoulders as he
was wont to do before a fight. "I tell you that you and I are no traitors to our name, and
who meddles with our coz, Will of Thrieve, hath us to reckon with!"

William of Avondale said nothing, but held out his hand with a slow, determinate gesture. Said
he, "An it were the father that begat us." Whereat, with all the impetuousness of his race
and nature, James dashed his palm into that of his brother.

"Whiles, William," he cried, "ye appear clerkish and overcautious, and I break out and miscall
ye for no Douglas, when ye will not spend your siller like a man and are afraid of the honest
pint stoup. But at the heart's heart ye are aye a Douglas--and though the silly gaping commons
like ye not so well as they like me, ye are the best o' us, for all that."

So it came to pass that within the space of half an hour the Avondale Douglases had sent men
to the four airts, young Hugh Douglas himself riding west, while James stirred the folk of
Avondale and Strathavon, and in all the courtyards and streets of the little feudal bourg there
began the hum and buzz of the war assembly.

Lord William went with Sholto to see staunch Darnaway duly stabled, and to approve the horse
which was to bear the messenger to the south without halt, now that his mission was accomplished
in the west. When they came out Sholto's riding harness had been transferred to a noble grey
steed large enough to carry even the burly James, let alone the slim captain of the archer
guard of Thrieve.

In the court, ranked and ready, bridle to bridle were ranged the knights and squires in waiting
about the Castle of Avondale, while out on a level green spot on the edge of the moor gathered
the denser array of the townfolk with spears and partisans.

In an hour the Avondale Douglases were ready to ride to the assistance of their cousins. Alas,
that Earl William would take no advice, for had these and others gone in with him to the fatal
town, there would have been no Black Bull's Head on the Chancellor's dinner table in the banqueting-hall
of Edinburgh Castle.

CHAPTER XXXVII

A STRANGE MEETING

It was approaching the evening of the third day after riding forth upon his mission when Sholto,
sleepless yet quite unconscious of weariness, approached the loch of Carlinwark and the cottage
of Brawny Kim. West and south he had raised the Douglas country as it had never been raised
before. And now behind him every armiger and squire, every spearman and light-foot archer,
was hasting Edinburgh-ward, eager to be first to succour the young and headstrong chief of
his great house.

Sholto had ridden and cried the slogan as was his duty, without allowing his mind to dwell
over much upon whether all might not arrive too late. And ever as he rode out of village or
across the desolate moors from castle to fortified farmhouse, it seemed that not he but some
other was upon this quest.

Something sterner and harder stirred in his breast. Light-hearted Sholto MacKim, the careless
lad of the jousting day, the proud young captain of the Earl's guard, was dead with all his
vanity. And in his place a man rode southward grim and determined, with vengeful angers a-smoulder
in his bosom,--hunger, thirst, love, the joy of living and the fear of death all being swallowed
up by deadly hatred of those who had betrayed his master.

Maud Lindesay was doubtless within a few miles of Sholto, yet he scarcely gave even his sweetheart
a thought as he urged his weary grey over the purple Parton moors towards the loch of Carlinwark
and the little hamlet nestling along its western side under the ancient thorn trees of the
Carlin's hill.

He rode down over the green and empty Crossmichael braes on which the broom pods were crackling
in the afternoon sunshine, through hollows where the corn lingered as though unwilling to have
done with such a scene of beauty, and find itself mewed in dusty barns, ground in mills, or
close pressed in thatched rick. He breasted the long smooth rise and entered the woods which
encircle the bright lakelet of Carlinwark, the pearl of all southland Scottish lochs.

With a strange sense of detachment he looked down upon the green sward between him and his
mother's gable end, upon which as a child he had wandered from dawn to dusk. Then it was nearly
as large as the world, and the grass was most comfortable to bare feet. There were children
playing upon it now, even as there had been of old, among them his own little sister Magdalen,
whose hair was spun gold, and her eyes blue as the forget-me-not on the marshes of the Isle
Wood. The children were dressed in white, five little girls in all, as for a festal day, and
their voices came upward to Sholto's ear through the arches of the great beeches which studded
the turf with pavilions of green shade, tenderly as they had done to that of William Douglas
in the spring-time of the year.

The minor note, the dying fall of the innocent voices, tugged at his heartstrings. He could
hear little Magdalen leading the chorus:

    "Margaret Douglas, fresh and fair,
        A bunch of roses she shall wear,
      Gold and silver by her side,
        I know who's her bride."

It was at "Fair Maid" they were playing, the mystic dance of Southland maidenhood, at whose
vestal rites no male of any age was ever permitted to be present. The words broke in upon the
gloom which oppressed Sholto's heart. Momentarily he forgot his master and saw Maud Lindesay
with the little Margaret Douglas of whom the children sang, once again gathering the gowans
on the brae sides of Thrieve or perilously reaching out for purple irises athwart the ditches
of the Isle.

As Sholto MacKim listened to the quaint and moving lullaby, suddenly there came into the field
of his vision that which stiffened him into a statue of breathing marble.

For without clatter of accoutrement or tramp of hoof, without companion or attendant, a white
palfrey had appeared through the green arches of the woodlands. A girl was seated upon the
saddle, swaying with gentle movement to the motion of her steed. At the sight of her figure
as she came nearer a low cry of horror and amazement broke from Sholto's lips.

It was the Lady Sybilla.

Yet he knew that he had left her behind him in Edinburgh, the siren temptress of Earl Douglas,
the woman who had led his master into the power of the enemy, she for whose sake he had refused
the certainty of freedom and life. Anger against this smiling enchantress suddenly surged up
in Sholto's heart.

"Halt there--on your life!" he cried, and urged his wearied steed forward. Like dry leaves
before a winter wind, the children were dispersed every way by the gust of his angry shout.
But the maiden on the palfrey either heeded not or did not hear.

Whereupon Sholto rode furiously crosswise to intercept her. He would learn what had befallen
his master. At least he would avenge him upon one--the chiefest and subtlest of his enemies.
But not till he had come within ten paces did the Lady Sybilla turn upon him the fulness of
her regard. Then he saw her face. It broke upon him sudden as the sight of imminent hell to
one sure of salvation. He had expected to find there gratified ambition, sated lust, exultant
pride, cruelest vengeance. He saw instead as it had been the face of an angel cast out of heaven,
or perhaps, rather, of a martyr who has passed through the torture chamber on her way to the
place of burning.

The sight stopped Sholto stricken and wavering. His anger fell from him like a cloak shed when
the sun shines in his strength.

The Lady Sybilla's face showed of no earthly paleness. Marble white it was, the eyes heavy
with weeping, purple rings beneath accentuating the horror that dwelt eternally in them. The
lips that had been as the bow of Apollo were parted as though they had been singing the dirge
of one beloved, and ever as she rode the tears ran down her cheeks and fell on her white robe,
and lower upon her palfrey's mane.

She looked at Sholto when he came near, but not as one who sees or recognises. Rather, as it
were, dumb, drunken, besotted with grief, looked forth the soul of the Lady Sybilla upon the
captain of the Douglas guard. She heeded not his angry shout, for another voice rang in her
ears, speaking the knightliest words ever uttered by a man about to die. Sholto's sword was
raised threateningly in his hand, but Sybilla saw another blade gleam bright in the morning
sun ere it fell to rise again dimmed and red. Therefore she checked not her steed, nor turned
aside, till Sholto laid his fingers upon her bridle-rein and leaped quickly to the ground,
sword in hand, leaving his own beast to wander where it would.

"What do you here?" he cried. "Where is my master? What have they done to him? I bid you tell
me on your life!"

Sholto's voice had no chivalrous courtesy in it now. The time for that had gone by. He lowered
his sword point and there was tense iron in the muscles of his arm. He was ready to kill the
temptress as he would a beautiful viper.

The Lady Sybilla looked upon him, but in a dazed fashion, like one who rests between the turns
of the rack. In a little while she appeared to recognise him. She noted the sword in his hand,
the death in his eye--and for the first time since the scene in the courtyard of Edinburgh
Castle, she smiled.

Then the fury in Sholto's heart broke suddenly forth.

"Woman," he cried, "show me cause why I should not slay you. For, by God, I will, if aught
of harm hath overtaken my master. Speak, I bid you, speak quickly, if you have any wish to live."

But the Lady Sybilla continued to smile--the same dreadful, mocking smile--and somehow Sholto,
with his weapon bare and his arm nerved to the thrust, felt himself grow weak and helpless
under the stillness and utter pitifulness of her look.

"You would kill me--kill me, you say--" the words came low and thrilling forth from lips which
were as those of the dead whose chin has not yet been bound about with a napkin, "ah, would
that you could! But you cannot. Steel will not slay, poison will not destroy, nor water drown
Sybilla de Thouars till her work be done!"

Sholto escaped from the power of her eye.

"My master--" he gasped, "my master--is he well? I pray you tell me."

Was it a laugh he heard in answer? Rather a sound, not of human mirth but as of a condemned
spirit laughing deep underground. Then again the low even voice replied out of the expressionless
face.

"Aye, your master is well."

"Ah, thank God," burst forth Sholto, "he is alive."

The Lady Sybilla moved her hand this way and that with the gesture of a blind man groping.

"Hush," she said, "I only said that he was well. And he is well. As I am already in the place
of torment, I know that there is a heaven for those who die as William Douglas died."

Sholto's cry rang sudden, loud, despairing.

"Dead--dead--Earl William dead--my master dead!"

He dropped the palfrey's rein, which till now he had held. His sword fell unheeded on the turf,
and he flung himself down in an agony of boyish grief. But from her white palfrey, sitting
still where she was, the maiden watched the paroxysms of his sorrow. She was dry eyed now,
and her face was like a mask cut in snow.

Then as suddenly recalling himself, Sholto leaped from the ground, snatched up his sword, and
again passionately advanced upon the Lady Sybilla.

"You it was who betrayed him," he cried, pointing the blade at her breast; "answer if it were
not so!"

"It is true I betrayed him," she answered calmly.

"You whom he loved--God knows how unworthily--"

"God knows," she said simply and calmly.

"You betrayed him to his death. Why then should not I kill you?"

Again she smiled upon him that disarming, hopeless, dreadful smile.

"Because you cannot kill me. Because it were too crowning a mercy to kill me. Because, for
three inches of that blade in my heart, I would bless you through the eternities. Because I
must do the work that remains--"

"And that work is--?"

"Vengeance!!"

Sholto was silent, trying to piece things together. He found it hard to think. He was but a
boy, and experience so strange as that of the Lady Sybilla was outside him. Yet vaguely he
felt that her emotion was real, more real perhaps than his own instinct of crude slaying--the
desire of the wasp whose nest has been harried to sting the first comer. This woman's hatred
was something deadlier, surer, more persistent.

"Vengeance--" he said at last, scarce knowing what he said, "why should you, who betrayed him,
speak of avenging him?"

"Because," said the Lady Sybilla, "I loved him as I never thought to love man born of woman.
Because when the fiends of the pit tie me limb to limb, lip to lip, with Judas who sold his
master with a kiss, when they burn me in the seventh hell, I shall remember and rejoice that
to the last he loved me, believed in me, gloried in his love for me. And God who has been cruel
to me in all else, will yet do this thing for me. He will not let William Douglas know that
I deceived him or that he trusted me in vain."

"But the Vengeance that you spoke of--what of that?" said Sholto, dwelling upon that which
was uppermost in his own thought.

"Aye," said the Lady Sybilla, "that alone can be compassed by me. For I am bound by a chain,
the snapping of which is my death. To him who, in a far land, devised all these things, to
the man who plotted the fall of the Douglas house--to Gilles de Retz, Marshal of France, I
am bound. But--I shall not die--even you cannot kill me, till I have brought that head that
is so high to the hempen cord, and delivered the foul fiend's body to the fires of both earth
and hell."

"And the Chancellor Crichton--the tutor Livingston--what of them?" urged Sholto, like a Scot
thinking of his native traitors.

The Lady Sybilla waved a contemptuous hand.

"These are but lesser rascals--they had been nothing without their master and mine. You of
the Douglas house must settle with them."

"And why have you returned to this country of Galloway?" said Sholto. "And why are you thus alone?"

"I am here," said the Lady Sybilla, "because none can harm me with my work undone. I travel
alone because it suits my mood to be alone, because my master bade me join him at your town
of Kirkcudbright, whence, this very night, he takes ship for his own country of Brittany."

"And why do you, if as you say you hate him so, continue to follow him?"

"Ah, you are simple," she said; "I follow him because it is my fate, and who can escape his
doom? Also, because, as I have said, my work is not yet done."

She relapsed into her former listless, forth-looking, unconscious regard, gazing through him
as if the young man had no existence. He dropped the rein and the point of his sword with one
movement. The white palfrey started forward with the reins loose on its neck. And as she went
the eyes of the Lady Sybilla were fixed on the distant hills which hid the sea.

So, leaving Sholto standing by the lakeside with bowed head and abased sword, the strange woman
went her way to work out her appointed task.

But ere the Lady Sybilla disappeared among the trees, she turned and spoke once more.

"I have but one counsel, Sir Knight. Think no more of your master. Let the dead bury their
dead. Ride to Thrieve and never once lose sight of her whom you call your sweetheart, nor yet
of her charge, Margaret Douglas, the Maid of Galloway, till the snow falls and winter comes
upon the land."

CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE MACKIMS COME TO THRIEVE

Sholto MacKim stood watching awhile as the white palfrey disappeared with its rider into the
purple twilight of the woods which barred the way to the Solway. Then with a violent effort
of will he recalled himself and looked about for his horse. The tired beast was gently cropping
the lush dewy herbage on the green slope which led downwards to his native cottage. Sholto
took the grey by the bridle and walked towards his mother's door, pondering on the last words
of the Lady Sybilla. A voice at once strenuous and familiar broke upon his ear.

"Shoo wi' you, impident randies that ye are, shoo! Saw I ever the like aboot ony decent hoose?
Thae hens will drive me oot o' my mind! Serious gentlemen of the court had been pale and babbling like a child to logarithms
and trigonometric formulas. He ask him about case studies and skill of skipper, accustomed to all
the dangers of the sea, he would respond with the aplomb of a sage.

In difficult moments - days of storms, low winding, treacherous coast neighborhood - Ferragut
only decided to rest when Toni is replaced on the bridge. With him there was no fear of inadvertently
enter the wave that sweeps through the roof and off the machines, or that the invisible obstacle
Stone nailed his tusk in the belly of the ship. Still standing the helmsman the direction indicated,
motionless and silent, as if asleep standing up, but at the moment brief appropriate dropped the
word of command.

Meat was lean, with the thinness of the Mediterranean annealed bronze. The salt wind over the
years had tanned his face with deep lines furrowing. Coloration Whimsical black was the bottom
of these cracks, while the part exposed to the sun seemed washed by light, with lighter shades.
The short beard and stretched by hard grooves and lomas of the skin. Besides, he had hair in his ears,
hair in the nostrils, broad and upturned, ready to tremble at times of anger or admiration ...
But this ugliness decreased in the light of their small eyes, with pupils between green and oily,
eyes watching sweetly, with canine expression of resignation, when
the captain made fun of their beliefs.

Toni was a "man of ideas." Ferragut knew him only four or five, but hard, crystallized, unshakable
as molluscs, attached to the rock, eventually becoming an outgrowth stone. Had acquired in twenty-five
years of coasting the Mediterranean, reading all newspapers lyrical radicalism met him at the
ports. In addition, the final of his travels was Marseille, and one of its streets a red room adorned
with columns symbolic, where he was to sailors of all races and all
languages, understood fraternally by signs and words mysterious rituals.

When

entering a port in South America after a long absence, admired Rapid advances in the shantytowns:
huge docks built in one year, endless streets not found in the previous trip, leafy parks and elegant
on ancient lakes dried.

- It's natural - stated categorically -. For some are Republic.

Upon entering Spanish ports, the less disappointment in the vessel,
a discussion with government employees, the lack of space for a good
anchorage, made him smile embittered.

"Unhappy country! ... Everything was work of the altar and the throne. "

In London the river or at the docks in Hamburg, Captain Ferragut mocked his subordinate.

- There is no Republic, Toni ...! And yet, this is something.

But Toni does not give up. Contracted the hairy face, making a mental effort to give shape to
their vague ideas, clothing them in words.

At the bottom of these great sensed an affirmation of their own thoughts. At last surrender, disarm,
but not convinced.

- I can not explain: Words fail me ... Are the people that do that.

Tenerife to receive news of the war, summed up all their doctrines with the laconic of a winner.

-
There are too many kings in Europe ... If all nations were republics!

... This calamity necessarily had to come.

And Ferragut dared not fun this time of the simplicity of his second.

Everyone in Mare nostrum were enthusiastic about the new aspect of business. The sailors, taciturn
in previous voyages, as if sensing the destruction or the tired captain now working happily,
just as if they were to participate profits.

Bow at the ranch were delivered to many business calculations. The first trip of the war amounted to
ten of the above, the latter may provide gain about twenty.

And be happy for Ferragut, with the same indifference that his first official remembrance of
bad business before. Drivers were no longer called the captain's cabin to devise new fuel savings.
Had to take time, and Mare Nostrum going full steam, making fourteen miles per hour as a passenger
ship, stopping only when he blocked the way an English destroyer at the entrance of the Mediterranean,
sending an officer to believe that there had to board enemy subjects of empires.

The abundance reigned equally between the bridge and the bow, where they were the kitchen and
accommodation sailors, space ship respected as undisputed domain
Caragol uncle.

This old nicknamed "Caracol" - another old friend of Ferragut - was the cook on board, and but he
dared not tutear the captain, as in other times, the expression of his voice was mentally to understand
that continued use of this familiarity. Ulysses had known when fled from the classroom to paddle in
the harbor, and he, by the poor condition of their eyes, just withdraw from the coastal trade,
declining to be simple boatman. Seriousness and corpulence had some priests. Mediterranean was
obese, with a small head, neck bulky and triple chin, sitting in
the stern of his fishing boat as a Roman patrician on the throne of
the trireme.

His culinary talents suffered eclipses when the rice was not included as a fundamental theme of
compositions. All this food can give of himself he knew perfectly. In ports Tropics, crew, tired
of bananas, pineapples, avocados, greeted with enthusiasm the emergence of large pan of rice
with salt cod and potato or baked rice casserole, the golden crust drilled by red-faced chick
peas and black back of the black pudding. Other times, the cook, under the leaden sky of the
northern seas, they did recall distant memories of the country giving the monastic rice with
chard or the buttery rice with turnips and beans.

On Sundays and saints' Valencia, who were the first in the heavens
for Uncle Caragol - San Vicente Martir, San Vicente Ferrer, Our Lady
of the Forsaken and the Christ Grao - appeared the smoky paella, a
vast arena of rice, on which sand swollen grains lay shattered several
birds.

The chef surprised his men handing onions raw, bulky acre perfume brought tears and ivory white.
Were a gift from Prince kept secret. One had only to break them in a sock they loose their viscosity,
and then lost in the palate as crunchy snacks a sweet and spicy, alternating with spoonfuls of
rice.

The ship was at times near Brazil, at the sight of Fernando de Noronha, distinguishing the conical
huts of the blacks installed on the island under an equatorial sun, and the crew believed to eat
in a hut the garden of Valencia, passing from hand to hand tufted Liria strong wine.

When anchored in abundant fishing ports, undertook the great task of cooking a rice Abanda. Scullions
wore the captain's table to the pot where they boiled the buttery
fish, tossed with lobster, clams and all sorts of seafood.

He reserved the honor of offering the vast basin with its pyramid of golden rice and loose.

Boiled
separately (Abando), each grain was full of delicious soup pot. It was a rice contained in her
womb the concentration of all substances from the sea. As if fulfilled a liturgical ceremony,
he was giving half a lemon to each of those occupying the table. The rice should be eaten only after
the dew moistened with fragrant, evoking the image an oriental garden. Only unknown is the unfortunate
pleasure of inland calling to any ranch rice from Valencia.

Ulysses nodded to the reflections of the cook, taking his mouth with the first spoonful gesture question
... Then he smiled, sinking into drunkenness cuisine. "Beautiful, man Caragol! "His good humor
made him say that Gods were fed only rice Abanda Olympus at your hotel. I had read in books.
And Caragol, sensing this as a compliment answered gravely: "Yes, sir." Toni and the other officers
head chewed low, stopping only to regret that the old man had fallen short in measuring ragweed.

The
oil was so precious to him as rice. At the time of shipping miserable when the captain made
an effort to achieve further savings, especially watching Caragol
large flask of your kitchen.

Scullions suspected the young sailors and smoothed hair to make nice using oil as an ointment.
Any head that was placed within reach clouded his view held in his
arms, leading to her face.

The farther olive perfume liquor aroused his anger. "Ah, lladre !...» and dropped his paw huge,
soft and heavy as a gauntlet of fencing.

Ulysses felt able to climb the bridge stating that the navigation could not continue exhaustion
of bottles of amethyst-colored liquid from the mountains of Espadán.

Their short-sighted eyes at the ports immediately recognized the nationality of the vessels anchored
to both sides of the Mare Nostrum. His nose sadly sipped the environment. "Nothing !...» Ships
were tasteless, North boats that made their food with butter, maybe boats Protestants.

Sometimes progressed slowly over the side, following a trail intoxicating until was placed
in front of the ship's kitchen neighbor, sucking their rich perfume. "Hello, brothers !...»
Can not go wrong.

Were Spanish, and if not, came from Marseilles, Genoa or Naples; In short, my fellow Americans
who ate and lived in all latitudes the same as if they were in the small inland sea. Soon to open
membership talks in the language Mediterranean mix of Spanish, Provencal and Italian peoples invented
hybrid of the African coast, from Egypt to Morocco. Sometimes these were sent as crossing each
tribe and tribe: the far off country. Other, estranged suddenly without knowing why, advanced fists
on the gunwales, shouting insults at those who reappeared method,
each two words, the Virgin and her holy child.

This was the signal for the guy Caragol, religious soul, to return with his haughty silence
kitchen. Toni, the second, made fun of his enthusiasms devotees. People bow, materialistic
and cocksucking, instead listened respectfully, because he who measured
the wine and the best snacks.

The old man spoke of Christ's Grao, whose picture occupied the site more visible the kitchen,
and all heard a new story by the sea arrival of the holy image, lying on a ladder, in a ship
went up in smoke after his miraculous release cargo.

It had been when he was only Grau a group of huts away from the walls of Valencia and threatened
by the landing of the Moorish pirates. For many years, had taken Caragol shoulder and step barefoot
on the holy day of the party. Now, other seamen enjoyed such an honor, and he, old and short-sighted,
the public waited for the procession to embark on the huge relic, from his clothes by the wood.

All
he had with him was sanctified by the contact.

In fact, it was great thing, then walked around the ship lightweight clothing, with the immodesty
of a man who sees evil and considered beyond human concerns.

A shirt with long skirt and a pair of floating cotton or cloth dirty
yellow by season, were his clothes.

On his shirt was open at all times revealing a patch of white hairs. The trousers are held consistently
with single button, and when the wind lifted his shirt, went out to light a new furry triangle
and white, with the top up, which was then matted chest triangle, with the top down. A straw
hat covered his head up while working at their pots.

The Mare Nostrum could not sink or suffer harm while leads him. In days storm, when waves swept
the foredeck or aft and advanced sailors suspicious, fearing that they are carry a heavy sea,
Caragol pulled his head out the kitchen door, ignoring a hazard that
could not see.

The heavy rain passed over him, going to put out their fires, but that kindled their faith. "Courage,
boys!"

The Christ of Grao was engaged in protecting them, and nothing bad could happen the baque ...
Some sailors were silent, others angry, they did this and that in the picture and his holy scale,
without the unworthy devotee. God, who sent the dangers to man sea, know that your bad words
have no malice.

His religion spread to the depths. Nothing meant the fish in the ocean. He inspired the same
cold indifference that those vessels without ignoring the perfume oil and they cooked everything
to "cream." Had to be heretics.

A Mediterranean fish knew better, and came to them by good Catholics, and proclaiming his own
way the glory of God. Standing next to the rail, in the warm afternoons the Tropics, had, for the
honor of the inhabitants of the distant sea, the wondrous miracle Alboraya ravine.

A priest on horseback waded its mouth to carry the Viaticum to a dying person, when the beast
stumbled and fell, opening the ciborium wafers, being washed away.

Since then shone every night mysterious lights in the sea, and at sunrise a swarm of little
fish came to stand against the cliff, their heads emerging water
wafer to show that each of them in his mouth.

Fishermen tried in vain remove them. Offshore fled with her treasure. Only when it was raised
cross and clergy the priest himself went into the ravine to the knees, they decided to close,
and one after another was putting his host into the chalice, retiring then from wave to wave,
moving graciously of your ass.

Despite the vague hope of an extraordinary wine jug encourage more of hearing, or murmur of
disbelief came at the end of the story. The devotee was angry Caragol and foul-mouthed as a prophet
when he considered a threat to their faith. "Who was the son of a flea who dared to doubt
what he had seen ?...»

And what he had seen was the party of peixets, celebrated every year, listening to the story
of men doctísimos miracle in the memorial chapel built on the edge of the ravine.

This miracle of the fishes was almost always followed what he called
the miracle of Peixoto, claiming that the weight of dead fish to crush
the doubts of impiety.

The galley of Alfonso V of Aragon - the only ocean king of Spain -
collided to leave the Gulf Naples with a hidden rock near the island
of Capri.

It started one side of the ship, hiciese without this water, and was sailing to sail with the king,
the ladies of his court and retinue of barons covered with iron.

Twenty days after arriving at Valencia safe and sound, as every sailor
that when danger calls for help to the Virgin of Puig.

By registering teachers calafates the hull of the galley, he saw
a huge fish detached from their backgrounds with the tranquility of
an honest person who has done his duty.

A dolphin was sent by the Blessed Lady to pegase his back to the breach. And so, as a stopper,
had sailed from Naples to Valencia, without missing a drop of water.

The cook did not allow criticism and protest. This miracle was undeniable. He had seen their
eyes when they were good, he had seen an old painting of the monastery Puig, and all appeared
in the table with the relief of the truth: the galley, the king,
Peixoto and the Virgin at the top giving the order.

The breeze lifted the skirt of the narrator, popping his abdomen split into two hemispheres
by the tightness of one button.

- Uncle Caragol, which escapes! - Warned a mocking voice.

The holy man with the calm seraphic smile which looks beyond the pomp and vanities of existence.

-
Let: no longer flies.

And began the story of another miracle.

Ferragut assimilated these exaltations lightly cook his clothes at all times. Burning inside
a fire incessantly renewed. On foggy days up to the bridge with a smoking drinking glasses
he called calentets. Nothing better for men who were to to spend long hours outdoors in stationary
surveillance. It was coffee mixed with rum cane, but in unequal proportions, with more alcohol
than the black liquid.

Toni quickly drank all the vessels offered. The captain refused, demanding black coffee.

His sobriety was the old sailor, the sobriety of the father Ulysses,
who mixed wine with water in all its libations.

The gods did not love the old sea spirits. Amphitrite and the Nereids only accepted on their altars
fruits of the earth, sacrifices pigeons, libations of milk. Perhaps because of this the Mediterranean
coast, following a concern hereditary drunkenness saw the lowest of the recesses. Those who
were not really drunk sober avoided like the sailors of other seas, hiding the roughness of
the alcoholic beverage or coffee with sugar.

Caragol was drunk in charge of all the "warm" despised by the captain,
others who are engaged himself in the mystery of the kitchen.

On hot days tailored refresquets, and these "soft" were large vessels,
half water, half sugar cane on a thick bed of sugar mixture that fulminant
posing without gradations, from the vulgar an angelic serenity to
drunkenness.

The master scolded him when he saw her eyes swollen and red.

I was going to go blind ... But he was not moved to the threat. Needed to hold his own way
prosperity of the ship. And this prosperity, the most interesting to him was able to abuse the
oil and sugarcane, without fear of recrimination at the time of the audit. Grao Christ, which lasted
forever War! ...

The third trip of South America to Europe came to finish the Mare
Nostrum in Naples wheat and hides where he landed.

A collision at the entrance of the harbor with a ship-hospital Englishman who went to the Dardanelles
dented its stern, also breaking a fin of the propeller.

Toni roared with impatience to learn that they would have to stay close to a month in forced immobility.
Italy had not yet intervened in the war, but his defensive precautions monopolized all naval
industries. It was not possible before the repair. Ferragut cash figure for their business this
waste of time. We expect valuable freight in Marseilles and Barcelona. But trying to calm himself
and placate his mate, repeated many times:

- England will indemnify ... The English are generous.

And to numb his impatience, was moved to the ground.

Naples does not look like much when compared to other famous Italian cities. Its true beauty was
the huge gulf between hills of orange and pine trees, with a second frame of mountains, one of which
extended over the eternal blue sky, its summit of volcanic vapors.

The village was scarce in famous buildings. The monarchs of Naples had been more than often
foreigners residing far and ruled by proxy. The best streets, palaces, monumental fountains, came
from the Spanish viceroys. A sovereign source mixed. Carlos III, Castilian Neapolitan by birth
and heart, had the best of the city. His enthusiasm constructor old neighborhoods still embellished
with similar works which had risen to years later in Spain to take
his throne.

After admiring the statues in the Greek museums and the objects unearthed that revealed the intimate
life of the ancients, Ulises ran tortuous arteries and often bleak
popular neighborhoods.

Were steep streets, forming landings, flanked by narrow houses and
towering.

All holes had balconies, and a railing at the front were stretched strings, buntings clothes
of different colors to dry. Fertility Neapolitan crowd was boiling these streets. Around the
outdoor kitchens crowded customers eating boiled macaroni feet or pieces of meat.

Advertised vendors hawking their wares with similar melodic ballads to, and down to meet him balconies
topped by castles strings. The haggling and shopping were from the bottom of the street-ditch
to the seventh floor. In contrast, herds of goats rose winding stairs with the agility of habit,
to be left empty the udder all plateaus.

Marinela springs attracted the captain for his "color" of the Mediterranean port. The unit Italian
had knocked down and rebuilt much, but still left standing several rows of houses, low ceiling,
pink or white façade, green doors and the floor under more advanced the top, serving to support
a gallery with wooden balustrades. Everything in them was not was
carpentry brick thick, equal to the work of the shipwrights. Iron
there was no land in these buildings they remembered the ship sailing.
The pieces were as dark cabin. Through the windows were large sea
shells on the comfortable, paint pictures depicting hard and childish
frigates, multicolored shells brought from distant seas.

These homes
were repeated in all ports of the Mediterranean, as if they were the
work of the same hand. Ferragut had seen a boy in the Grao of Valencia,
and still found them in Barceloneta, in the suburbs of Marseille,
in the old Nice, on the island ports Western navies in the African
coast occupied by Maltese and Sicilian.

On the village aligned along
the Marinela, the churches of Naples domes protruding and towers with
glazed tiles, green and yellow. More than Christian churches roofs
seemed auction of oriental baths.

Lazaron there was no longer barefoot
and red cap, but the crowd - clad as all port workers - are still
crowded around the poster defaced that was a crime, a prodigious miracle
or a specific, listening in silence the story the narrator or the
charlatan. The old popular reciters declaimed with heroic gesticulations
Tasso's epic octaves. Accompanied by harps and violins sounded the
last romance that Naples had become fashionable in the world. The
positions of the scattered ostricarios perfume dead organic wave.
Around them, the empty shells of oysters out against mud the rounds
of his pearly lime.

Next to the former Captain of the Port - palace
of Charles III, white and blue with an image of the Immaculate Conception
- the cars were crowded landing. Ferragut the same thing was that
years before, with their original hybrid shots. The rods were occupied
by an ox white, lustrous, with huge horns and wide, an animal similar
to those contained in religious ceremonies of the ancients. 'Tis just no possible--I'll wager that it is that Hieland gipsy Mistress Lindesay
that has some love ploy on hand, and has gane aff and aiblins ta'en the lass wi' her for company."

At these words Sholto twisted about in his saddle, as if a wasp had stung him suddenly.

"Master Semple," he said, "I would have you speak more carefully. Mistress Lindesay is a baron's
daughter and has no love ploys, as you are pleased to call them."

The two burgesses shook with jolly significant laughter, which angered Sholto exceedingly.

"Your mirth, sirs, I take leave to tell you, is most mightily ill timed," he said, "and I shall
consider myself well rid of your company."

He was riding away when his uncle set his hand upon the bridle of Sholto's jennet.

"Bide ye, wild laddie," he said, "there is nae service in gaun aff like a fuff o' tow. My freend
here meaned to speak nae ill o' the lass. But at least I ken o' ae love ploy that Mistress
Lindesay is engaged in, or your birses wadna be so ready to stand on end, my bonny man. But
guid luck to ye. Ye hae the mair chance o' finding the flown birdies, that ye maybes think
mair o' the bonny norland quey than ye think o' the bit Gallowa' calf. But God speed ye, I
say, for gin ye bringna back the wee lass that's heir to the braid lands o' Thrieve, it's an
ill chance Ninian Halliburton has ever to fill his loof wi' the bonny gowden 'angels' that
(next to high heeven) are a man's best freends in an evil and adulterous generation."

CHAPTER XL

THE MISSION OF JAMES THE GROSS

From all sides the Douglases were marching upon Edinburgh. After the murder of the young lords
the city gates had been closed by order of the Chancellor. The castle was put into a thorough
state of defence. The camp of the Avondale Douglases, William and James, was already on the
Boroughmuir, and the affrighted citizens looked in terror upon the thickening banners with
the bloody Douglas heart upon them, and upon the array of stalwart and determined men of the
south. Curses both loud and deep were hurled from the besiegers' lines at every head seen above
the walls, together with promises to burn Edinburgh, castle and burgh alike, and to slocken
the ashes with the blood of every living thing within, all for the cause of the Black Dinner
and the Bull's Head set before the brothers of Douglas.

But at midnoon of a glorious day in the late September, a man rode out from the west port of
the city, a fat man flaccid of body, pale and tallowy of complexion. A couple of serving-men
went behind him, with the Douglas arms broidered on their coats. They looked no little terrified,
and shook upon their horses, as indeed well they might. This little cavalcade rode directly
out of the city gates towards the pavilion of the young Douglases of Avondale. As they went
two running footmen kept them company, one on either side of their leader, and as that unwieldy
horseman swayed this way and that in the saddle, first one and then the other applied with
his open palm the force requisite to keep the rider erect upon his horse.

It was the new Earl of Douglas, James the Gross, on his way to visit the camp of his sons.
As he approached the sentries who stood on guard upon the broomy braes betwixt Merchiston and
Bruntsfield, he was challenged in a fierce southland shout by one of the Carsphairn levies
who knew him not.

"Stand back there, fat loon, gin ye wantna a quarrel shot intil that swagging tallow-bag ye
ca' your wame!"

"Out of my way, hill varlet!" cried the man on horseback.

But the Carsphairn man stood with his cross-bow pointed straight at the leader of the cavalcade,
crying at the same time in a loud, far-carrying voice over his shoulder, "Here awa', Anthon--here
awa', Bob! Come and help me to argue wi' this fat rogue."

Several other hillmen came hurrying up, and the little company of riders was brought to a standstill.
Then ensued this colloquy.

"Who are you that dare stop my way?" demanded the Earl.

"Wha may ye be that comes shuggy-shooin' oot o' the bluidy city o' Edinburgh intil oor camp,"
retorted him of Carsphairn, "sitting your beast for all the warld like a lump o' potted-head
whammelled oot o' a bowl?"

"I am the Earl of Douglas."

"The Yerl o' Dooglas! Then a bonny hand they hae made o' him in Edinburgh. I heard they had
only beheaded him."

"I tell you I am Earl of Douglas. I bid you beware. Conduct me to the tent of my sons!"

At this point an aged man of some authority stood forward and gazed intently at James the Gross,
looking beneath his hand as at an extensive prospect of which he wished to take in all the details.

"Lads," he said, "hold your hands--it rins i' my head that this craitur' may be Jamie, the
fat Yerl o' Avondale. We'll let him gang by in peace. His sons are decent lads."

There came from the hillmen a chorus of "Avondale he may be--there's nae sayin' what they can
breed up there by Stra'ven. But we are weel assured that he is nae richt Douglas. Na, nae Douglas
like yon man was ever cradled or buried in Gallowa'."

At this moment Lord William Douglas, seeing the commotion on the outposts, came down the brae
through the broom. Upon seeing his father he took the plumed bonnet from off his head, and,
ordering the Carsphairn men sharply to their places, he set his hand upon the bridle of the
gross Earl's horse. So with the two running footmen still preserving some sort of equilibrium
in his unsteady bulk, James of Avondale was brought to the door of a tent from which floated
the banner of the Douglas house, blue with a bleeding heart upon it.

At the entering in of the pavilion, all stained and trodden into the soil by the feet of passers-by,
lay the royal banner of the Stewarts, so placed by headstrong James Douglas the younger, in
contempt of both tutor and Chancellor, who, being but cowards and murderers, had usurped the
power of the king within the realm.

That sturdy youth came to the door of his pavilion half-dressed as he had lain down, yawning
and stretching reluctantly, for he had been on duty all night perfecting the arrangements for
besieging the town.

"James--James," cried his father, catching sight of his favourite son rubbing sleepily his
mass of crisp hair, "what's this that I hear? That you and William are in rebellion and are
defying the power o' the anointed king--?"

At this moment the footman undid the girths of his horse, which, being apparently well used
to the operation, stood still with its feet planted wide apart. Then they ran quickly round
to the side towards which the swaying bulk threatened to fall, the saddle slipped, and, like
a top-heavy forest tree, James the Gross subsided into the arms of his attendants, who, straining
and panting, presently set him on his feet upon the blazoned royal foot-cloth at the threshold
of the pavilion.

Almost he had fallen backwards when he saw the use to which his daring sons had put the emblem
of royal authority.

"Guid save us a', laddies," he cried, staggering across the flag into the tent, "ken ye what
ye do? The royal banner o' the King o' Scots--to mak' a floor-clout o'! Sirce, sirce, in three
weeks I shall be as childless as the Countess o' Douglas is this day."

"That," said William Douglas, coldly, indicating with his finger the trampled cloth, "is not
the banner of Scotland, but only that of the Seneschal Stewarts. The King of Scots is but a
puling brat, and they who usurp his name are murderous hounds whose necks I shall presently
stretch with the rogue's halter!"

Young James Douglas had set an oaken folding chair for his father at the upper end of the pavilion,
and into this James the Gross fell rather than seated himself.

His sons William and James continued to stand before him, as was the dutiful habit of the time.
Their father recovered his breath before beginning to speak.

"What's this--what's this I hear?" he exclaimed testily, "is it true that ye are in flat rebellion
against the lawful authority of the king? Laddies, laddies, ye maun come in wi' me to his excellence
the Chancellor and make instanter your obedience. Ye are young and for my sake he will surely
overlook this. I will speak with him."

"Father," said William Douglas, with a cold firmness in his voice, "we are here to punish the
murderers of our cousins. We shall indeed enter the guilty city, but it will be with fire and
sword."

"Aye," cried rollicking, headstrong James, "and we will roast the Crichton on a spit and hang
that smug traitor, Tutor Livingston, over the walls of David's Tower, a bonny ferlie for his
leman's wonder!"

There came a cunning look into the small pig's eyes of James the Gross.

"Na, na, foolish laddies, thae things will ye no do. Mind ye not the taunts and scorns that
the Earl--the late Earl o' Douglas that is--put upon us a'? Think on his pride and vainglory,
whilk Scripture says shall be brocht low. Think in especial how this righteous judgment that
has fallen on him and on his brother has cleared our way to the Earldom."

The choleric younger brother leaped forward with an oath on his lips, but his calmer senior
kept him back with his hand.

"Silence, James!" he said; "I will answer our father. Sir, we have heard what you say, but
our minds are not changed. What cause to associate yourself with traitors and mansworn you
may have, we do not know and we do not care."

At his son's first words James the Gross rose with a sudden surprising access of dignity remarkable
in one of his figure.

"I bid you remember," he said, speaking southland English, as he was wont to do in moments
of excitement, "I bid you remember, sirrah, that I am the Earl of Douglas and Avondale, Justicer
of Scotland--and your father."

William Douglas bowed, respectful but unmoved.

"My lord," he said, "I forget nothing. I do not judge you. You are in authority over our house.
You shall do what you will with these forces without there, so be you can convince them of
your right. Black murder, whether you knew and approved it or no, has made you Earl of Douglas.
But, sir, if you take part with my cousins' murderers now, or screen them from our just vengeance
and the vengeance of God, I tell you that from this day you are a man without children. For
in this matter I speak not only for myself, but for all your sons!" He turned to his brother.

"James," he said, "call in the others." James went to the tent door and called aloud.

"Archibald, Hugh, and John, come hither quickly."

A moment after three young men of noble build, little more than lads indeed, but with the dark
Douglas allure stamped plainly upon their countenances, entered, bowed to their father, and
stood silent with their hands crossed upon the hilts of their swords.

William Douglas went on with the same determinate and relentless calm.

"My lord," he said, very respectfully, "here stand your five sons, all soldiers and Douglases,
waiting to hear your will. Murder has been done upon the chief of our house by two men of cowardly
heart and mean consideration, Crichton and Livingston, instigated by the false ambassador of
the King of France. We have come hither to punish these slayers of our kin, and we desire to
know what you, our father, think concerning the matter."

James the Gross was still standing, steadying himself with his hand on the arm of the oaken
chair in which he had been sitting. He spoke with some difficulty, which might proceed either
from emotion or from the plethoric habit of the man.

"Have I for this brought children into the world," he said, "that they should lift up their
hands against the father that begat them? Ye know that I have ever warned you against the pride
and arrogance of your cousins of Galloway."

"You mean, of the late Earl of Douglas and the boy his brother," answered William; "the pride
of eighteen and fourteen is surely vastly dangerous."

"I mean those who have been tried and executed in Edinburgh by royal authority for many well-grounded
offences against the state," cried the Earl, loudly.

"Will you deign to condescend upon some of them?" said his son, as quietly as before.

"Your cousins' pride and ostentation of riches and retinue, being far beyond those of the King,
constituted in themselves an eminent danger to the state. Nay, the turbulence of their followers
has more than once come before me in my judicial capacity as Justicer of the realm. What more
would you have?"

"Were you, my lord, of those who condemned them to death?"

"Not so, William; it had not been seemly in a near kinsman and the heir to their dignities--that
is, save and except Galloway, which by ill chance goes in the female line, if we find not means
to break that unfortunate reservation. Your cousins were condemned by my Lords Crichton and
Livingston."

"We never heard of either of them," said William, calmly.

"In their judicial aspect they may be styled lords, as is the Scottish custom," said James
the Gross, "even as when I was laird of Balvany and a sitter on the bed of justice, it was
my right to be so nominated."

"Then our cousins were condemned with your approval, my Lord of Douglas and Avondale?" persisted
his son.

James the Gross was visibly perturbed.

"Approval, William, is not the word to use--not a word to use in the circumstances. They were
near kinsmen!"

"But upon being consulted you did not openly disapprove--is it not so? And you will not aid
us to avenge our cousins' murder now?"

"Hearken, William, it was not possible--I could not openly disapprove when I also was in the
Chancellor's hands, and I knew not but that he might include me in the same condemnation. Besides,
lads, think of the matter calmly. There is no doubt that the thing happens most conveniently,
and the event falls out well for us. Our own barren acres have many burdens upon them. What
could I do? I have been a poor man all my life, and after the removal of obstacles I saw my
way to become the richest man in Scotland. How could I openly object?"

William Douglas bowed.

"So--" he said, "that is what we desired to know! Have I your permission to speak further?"

His father nodded pleasantly, seating himself again as one that has finished a troublesome
business. He rubbed his hands together, and smiled upon his sons.

"Aye, speak gin ye like, William, but sit doon--sit doon, lads. We are all of one family, and
it falls out well for you as it does for me. Let us all be pleasant and agreeable together!"

"I thank you, my lord," said his son, "but we will not sit down. We are no longer of one family.
We may be your sons in the eye of the law and in natural fact. But from this day no one of
us will break bread, speak word, hold intimacy or converse with you. So far as in us lies we
will renounce you as our father. We will not, because of the commandment, rise in rebellion
against you. You are Earl of Douglas, and while you live must rule your own. But for me and
my brothers we will never be your children to honour, your sons to succour, nor your liegemen
to fight for you. We go to offer our services to our cousin Margaret, the little Maid of Galloway.
We will keep her province with our swords as the last stronghold of the true Douglases of the
Black. I have spoken. Fare you well, my lord!"

During his son's speech the countenance of the newly made Earl of Douglas grew white and mottled,
tallowy white and dull red in turns showing upon it, like the flesh of a drained ox. He rose
unsteadily to his feet, moving one hand deprecatingly before him, like a helpless man unexpectedly
stricken. His nether lip quivered, pendulous and piteous, in the midst of his grey beard, and
for a moment he strove in vain with his utterance.

His eyes fell abashed from the cold sternness of his eldest son's glance, and he seemed to
scan the countenances of the younger four for any token of milder mood.

"James," he said, "ye hear William. Surely ye do not hold with him? Remember I am your father,
and I was aye particular fond o' you, Jamie. I mind when ye wad rin to sit astride my shoulder.
And ye used to like that fine!"

There were tears in the eyes of the weak, cunning, treacherous-hearted man. The lips of James
Douglas quivered a little, and his voice failed him, as he strove to answer his father. What
he would have said none knows, but ere he could voice a word, the eyes of his brother, stern
as the law given to Moses on the mount, were bent upon him. He straightened himself up, and,
with a look carefully averted from the palsied man before him, he said, in a steady tone, "What
my brother William says, I say."

His father looked at him again, as if still hoping against hope for some kinder word. Then
he turned to his younger sons.

"Archie, Hugh, little Jockie, ye willna take part against your ain faither?"

"We hold with our brothers!" said the three, speaking at once.

At this moment there came running in at the door of the tent a lad of ten--Henry, the youngest
of the Avondale brothers. He stopped short in the midst, glancing wonderingly from one to the
other. His little sword with which he had been playing dropped from his hand. James the Gross
looked at him.

"Harry," he said, "thy brothers are a' for leavin' me. Will ye gang wi' them, or bide wi' your
faither?"

"Father," said the boy, "I will go with you, if ye will let me help to kill Livingston and
the Chancellor!"

"Come, laddie," said the Earl, "ye understand not these matters. I will explain to you when
we gang back to the braw things in Edinbra' toon!"

"No, no," cried the boy, stooping to pick up his sword, "I will bide with my brothers, and
help to kill the murderers of my cousins. What William says, I say."

Then the five young men went out and called for their horses, their youngest brother following
them. And as the flap of the tent fell, and he was left alone, James the Gross sank his head
between his soft, moist palms, and sobbed aloud.

For he was a weak, shifty, unstable man, loving approval, and a burden to himself in soul and
body when left to bear the consequences of his acts.

"Oh, my bairns," he cried over and over, "why was I born? I am not sufficient for these things!"

And even as he sobbed and mourned, the hoofs of his sons' horses rang down the wind as they
rode through the camp towards Galloway. And little Henry rode betwixt William and James.

CHAPTER XLI

THE WITHERED GARLAND

Meanwhile Sholto fared onwards down the side of the sullen water of Dee. The dwellers along
the bank were all on the alert, and cried many questions to him about the death of the Earl,
most thinking him a merchant travelling from Edinburgh to take ship at Kirkcudbright. Sholto
answered shortly but civilly, for the inquirers were mostly decent folk well on in years, whose
lads had gone to the levy, and who naturally desired to know wherefore their sons had been
summoned.

In return he asked everywhere for news of any cavalcade which might have passed that way, but
neither from the country folk, nor yet from hoof-marks upon the grassy banks, could he glean
the least information pertinent to the purpose of his quest.

Not till he came within a few miles of the town did he meet with man or woman who could give
him any material assistance. It was by the Fords of Tongland that he first met with one Tib
MacLellan, who with much volubility and some sagacity retailed fresh fish to the burghers of
Kirkcudbright and the whole countryside, giving a day to each district so long as the supply
of her staple did not fail.

"Fair good day to ye, mistress!" said Sholto, taking off his bonnet to the sonsy upstanding
fishwife.

"And to you, bonny lad," replied the complimented dame, dropping a courtesy, "may the corbie
never cry at ye nor ill-faured pie juik at your left elbow. May candle creesh never fa' on
ye, red fire burn ye, nor water scald ye."

Tib was reeling off her catalogue of blessings when Sholto cut her short.

"Can you tell me, good lady," he asked, in his most insinuating tones, "if there has been any
vessel cleared from the port during these last weeks?"

"'Deed, sir, that I should ken, for is no my ain sister marriet on Jock Wabster, wha's cousin
by marriage twice removed is the bailie officer o' the port? So I can advise ye that there
was a boat frae the Isle o' Man wi' herrin's for the great houses, though never a fin o' them
like the halesome fish I carry here in my creel. Wad ye like to see them, to buy a dozen for
the bonny lass that's waiting for ye? That were a present to recommend ye, indeed--far mair
than your gaudy flowers, fule ballads, and sic like trash!"

"You cannot remember any other ship of larger size than the Manx fishing-boat?" continued Sholto.

"Weel, no to ca' cleared frae the port," Tib went on, "but there was a pair o' uncanny-looking
foreign ships that lay oot there by the Manxman's Lake for eight days, and the nicht afore
yestreen they gaed oot with the tide. They were saying aboot the foreshore that they gaed west
to some other port to tak' on board the French monzie that cam' to the Thrieve at the great
tournaying! But I kenna what wad tak' him awa' to the Fleet or the Ferry Toon o' Cree, and
leave a' the pleasures o' Kirkcudbright ahint him. Forbye sic herrin's as are supplied by me,
Tib MacLellan, at less than cost price--as I houp your honour will no forget, when in the course
o' natur' and the providence o' God you and her comes to hae a family atween ye."

Sholto promised that he would not forget when the time alluded to arrived. Then, turning his
jennet off the direct road to Kirkcudbright town, and betaking him through the Ardendee fords,
he made all speed towards a little port upon the water of Fleet, at the point where that fair
moorland stream winds lazily through the water-meadows for a mile or two, after its brawling
passage down from the hills of heather and before it commits itself to the mother sea.

But it was not until he had long crossed it and reached the lonely Cassencary shore that Sholto
found his first trace of the lost maidens. For as he rode along the cliffs his keen eye noted
a well-marked trail through the heather approaching the shore at right angles to his own line
of march. The tracks, still perfectly evident in the grassy places, showed that as many as
twenty horses had passed that way within the last two or three days. He stood awhile examining
the marks, and then, leading his beast slowly by the bridle, he continued to follow them westward
till they became confused and lost near a little jetty erected by the lairds of Cree and Cassencary
for convenience of traffic with Cumberland and the Isle of Man. Here on the very edge of the
foreshore, blown by some chance wind behind a stone and wonderfully preserved there, Sholto
found a child's chain of woodbine entwined with daisies and autumnal pheasant's eye. He took
it up and examined it. Some of the flowers were not yet withered. The inter-weaving was done
after a fashion he had taught the little Maid of Galloway himself, one happy day when he had
walked on air with the glamour of Maud Lindesay's smiles uplifting his heart. For that tricksome
grace had asked him to teach her also, and he remembered the lingering touch of her fingers
ere she could compass the quaint device of the pheasant's eye peeping out from the midst of
each white festoon.

Then a deep despair settled down on Sholto's spirit. He knew that Maud Lindesay and the fair
Maid of Galloway had undoubtedly fallen into the power of the terrible Marshal de Retz, Sieur
of Machecoul, ambassador of the King of France, and also many things else which need not in
this place be put on record.

CHAPTER XLII

ASTARTE THE SHE-WOLF

In a dark wainscoted room overlooking that branch of the Seine which divides the northern part
of Paris from the Isle of the City, Gilles de Retz, lately Chamberlain of the King of France,
sat writing. The hotel had recently been redecorated after the sojourn of the English. Wooden
pavements had again been placed in the rooms where the barbarians had strewed their rushes
and trampled upon their rotting fishbones. Noble furniture from the lathes of Poitiers, decorated
with the royal ermines of Brittany, stood about the many alcoves. The table itself whereon
the famous soldier wrote was closed in with drawers and shelves which descended to the floor
and seemed to surround the occupant like a cell.

Before de Retz stood a curious inkstand, made by some cunning jeweller out of the upper half
of a human skull of small size, cut across at the eye-holes, inverted, and set in silver with
a rim of large rubies. This was filled with ink of a startling vermilion colour.

The document which Gilles de Retz was busy transcribing upon sheets of noble vellum in this
strange ink was of an equally mysterious character. The upper part had the appearance of a
charter engrossed by the hand of some deft legal scribe, but the words which followed were
as startling as the vehicle by means of which they were made to stand out from the vellum.

"Unto Barran-Sathanas; Lord most glorious and puissant in hell beneath and in the earth above,
I, his unworthy servitor Gilles de Retz, make my vows, hereby forever renouncing God, Christ,
and the Blessed Saints."

To this appalling introduction succeeded many lines of close and delicate script, interspersed
with curious cabalistic signs, in which that of the cross reversed could frequently be detected.
Gilles de Retz wrote rapidly, rising only at intervals to throw a fresh log of wood across
the vast iron dogs on either side of the wide fireplace, as the rain from the northwest beat
more and more fiercely upon the small glazed panes of the window and howled among the innumerable
gargoyles and twisted roof-stacks of the Hotel de Pornic.

Within the chamber itself, in the intervals of the storm, a low continuous growling made itself
evident. At first it was disregarded by the writer, but presently, by its sheer pertinacity,
the sound so irritated him that he rose from his seat, and, striding to a narrow door covered
with a heavy curtain, he threw it wide open to the wall. Then through the black oblong so made,
a huge and shaggy she-wolf slouched slowly into the room.

The marshal kicked the brute impatiently with his slippered foot as she entered, and, strange
to relate, the wolf slunk past him with the cowed air of a dog conscious of having deserved
punishment.

"Astarte, vilest beast," he cried, "have I not a thousand times warned you to be silent and
wait outside when I am at work within my chamber?"

The she-wolf eyed her master as he went back towards his table. Then, seeing him lift his pen,
with a sigh of content she dropped down upon the warm hearthstone, lying with her haunches
towards the blazing logs and her bristling head couched upon her paws. Her yellow shining eyes
blinked sleepily and approvingly at him, while with her tongue she rasped the soft pads of
her feet one by one, biting away the fur from between the toes with her long and gleaming teeth.
Presently Astarte appeared to doze off. Her eyes were shut, her attitude relaxed. But so soon
as ever her master moved even an inch to consult a marked list of dates which hung on a hook
beside him, or leaned over to dip a quill in his scarlet ink, the flashing yellow eye and the
gleam of white teeth underneath told that Astarte was awake and intently watching every movement
of the worker.

Through the heavy boom of the storm without, the thresh of the rain upon the lattice casement,
and the irregular whipping gusts which shook the house, the soft wheeze of the engrossing quill
could be heard, the crackle of the burning logs and the heavy regular breathing of the couchant
she-wolf being the only other sounds audible within the apartment.

Gilles de Retz wrote on, smiling to himself as he added line after line to his manuscript.
His beard shone with a truculent blue-black lustre. For the moment the aged look had quite
gone out of his face. His cheek appeared flushed with the hues of youth and reinvigorated hope,
yet withal of a youth without innocence or charm. Rather it seemed as if fresh blood had been
injected into the veins of some aged demon, moribund and cruel, giving, instead of health or
grace, only a new lease of cruelty and lust.

Presently another door opened, the main entrance of the apartment this time, not the small
private portal through which Astarte the wolf had been admitted. A girl came in, thrusting
aside the curtain, and, for the space of a moment, holding it outstretched with an arm gowned
in pure white before dropping it with a rustle of heavy silken fabric upon the ground.

The Marshal de Retz wrote on without appearing to be conscious of any new presence in his private
chamber. The girl stood regarding him, with eyes that blazed with an intent so deadly and a
hate so all-possessing that the yellow treachery in those of Astarte the she-wolf appeared
kind and affectionate by contrast.

At the girl's entrance that shaggy beast had raised herself upon her fore paws, and presently
she gave vent to a low growl, half of distrust and half of warning, which at once reached the
ears of the busy worker.

Gilles de Retz looked up quickly, and, catching sight of the Lady Sybilla, with a sweep of
his hand he thrust his manuscript into an open drawer of the escritoire.

"Ah, Sybilla," he said, leaning back in his chair with an air of easy familiarity, "you are
more sparing of your visits to me than of yore. To what do I owe the pleasure and honour of
this one?"

The girl eyed him long before answering. She stood statue-still by the curtain at the entrance
of the apartment, ignoring the chair which the marshal had offered her with a bow and a courteous
wave of his hand.

"I have come," she made answer at last, in the deep even tones which she had used before the
council of the traitors at Stirling, "to demand from you, Messire Gilles de Retz, what you
mean to do with the little Margaret Douglas and her companion, whom you wickedly kidnapped
from their own country and have brought with you in your train to France?"

"I have satisfaction in informing you," replied the marshal, suavely, "that it is my purpose
to dispose of both these agreeable young ladies entirely according to my own pleasure."

The girl caught at her breast with her hand, as if to stay a sudden spasm of pain.

"Not at Tiffauges--" she gasped, "not at Champtocé?"

The marshal leaned back, enjoying her terror, as one tastes in slow sips a rare brand of wine.
He found the flavour of her fears delicious.

"No, Sybilla," he replied at last, "neither at Champtocé nor yet at Tiffauges--for the present,
that is, unless some of your Scottish friends come over to rescue them out of my hands."

"How, then, do you intend to dispose of them?" she urged.

"I shall send them to your puking sister and her child, hiding their heads and sewing their
samplers at Machecoul. What more can you ask? Surely the young and fair are safe in such worthy
society, even if they may chance to find it a little dull."

"How can I believe him, or know that for once he will forego his purposes of hell?" Sybilla
murmured, half to herself.

The Marshal de Retz smiled, if indeed the contraction of muscles which revealed a line of white
teeth can be called by that name. In the sense in which Astarte would have smiled upon a defenceless
sheepfold, so Gilles de Retz might have been said to smile at his visitor.

"You may believe me, sweet Lady Sybilla," said the marshal, "because there is one vice which
it is needless for me to practise in your presence, that of uncandour. I give you my word that
unless your friends come worrying me from the land of Scots, the maids shall not die. Perhaps
it were better to warn any visitors that even at Machecoul we are accustomed to deal with such
cases. Is it not so, Astarte?"

At the sound of her name the huge wolf rose slowly, and, walking to her master's knee, she
nosed upon him like a favourite hound.

"And if your intent be not that which causes fear to haunt the precincts of your palaces like
a night-devouring beast, and makes your name an execration throughout Brittany and the Vendée,
why have you carried the little child and the other pretty fool forth from their country? Was
it not enough that you should slay the brothers? Wherefore was it necessary utterly to cut
off the race of the Douglases?"

"Sybilla, dear sister of my sainted Catherine," purred the marshal, "it is your privilege that
you should speak freely. When it is pleasing to me I may even answer you. It pleases me now,
listen--you know of my devotion to science. You are not ignorant at what cost, at what vast
sacrifices, I have in secret pushed my researches beyond the very confines of knowledge. The
powers of the underworlds are revealing themselves to me, and to me alone. Evil and good alike
shall be mine. I alone will pluck the blossom of fire, and tear from hell and hell's master
their cherished mystery."

He paused as if mentally to recount his triumphs, and then continued.

"But at the moment of success I am crossed by a prejudice. The ignorant people clamour against
my life--canaille! I regard them not. But nevertheless their foolish prejudices reach other
ears. Hearken!"

And like a showman he beckoned Sybilla to the window. A low roar of human voices, fitful yet
sustained, made itself distinctly audible above the shriller hooting of the tempest.

"Open the window!" he commanded, standing behind the curtain.

The girl unhasped the brazen hook and looked out. Beneath her a little crowd of poor people
had collected about a woman who was beating with bleeding hands upon the shut door of the Hotel
de Pornic.

"Justice! justice!" cried the woman, her hands clasped and her long black hair streaming down
her shoulders, "give me my child, my little Pierre. Yester-eve he was enticed into the monster's
den by his servant Poitou, and I shall never see him more! Give me my boy, murderer! Restore
me my son!"

And the answering roar of the people's voices rose through the open window to the ears of the
marshal. "Give the woman her son, Gilles de Retz!"

At that moment the woman caught sight of Sybilla. Instantly she changed her tone from entreaty
to fierce denunciation.

"Behold the witch, friends, let us tear her to pieces. She is kept young and beautiful by drinking
the blood of children. Throw thyself down, Jezebel, that the dogs may eat thee in the streets."

And a shout went up from the populace as Sybilla shut to the window, shuddering at the horrors
which surrounded her.

The Marshal de Retz had not moved, watching her face without regarding the noise outside. Now
he went back to his chair, and bending his slender white fingers together, he looked up at her.

Presently he struck a silver bell by his side three times, and the mellow sound pervaded the house.

Poitou appeared instantly at the inner door through which the she-wolf had entered.

"How does it go?" asked the marshal, with his usual careless easy grace.

"Not well," said Poitou, shaking his head; "that is, rightly up to a point, and then--all wrong!"

For the first time the countenance of the marshal appeared troubled.

"And I was sure of success this time. We must try them younger. It is all so near, yet, strangely
it escapes us. Well, Poitou, I shall come in a little when I have finished with this lady.
Tell De Sillé to expect me."

Poitou bowed respectfully and was withdrawing, too well trained to smile or even lift his eyes
to where Sybilla stood by the window.

His master appeared to recollect himself.

"A moment, Poitou--there are some troublesome people of the city rabble at the door. Bid the
guard turn out, and thrust them away. Tell them to strike not too gently with the flats of
their swords and the butts of their spears."

Gilles de Retz listened for some time after the disappearance of his familiar. Presently the
low droning note of popular execration changed into sharper exclamations of hatred, mingled
with cries of pain.

Then the marshal smiled, and rubbed his hands lightly one over the other.

"That's my good lads," he said; "hear the rattle of the spear-hilts upon the paving-stones?
They are bringing the butts into close acquaintance with certain very ill-shod feet. Ah, now
they are gone!"

The marshal took a long breath and went on, half to himself and half to Sybilla.

"But I own it is all most inconvenient," he said, thoughtfully. "Here in Paris, in King Charles's
country, it does not so greatly matter. For the affair in Scotland has set me right with the
King and in especial with the Dauphin. By the death of the Douglases I have given back the
duchy of Touraine to the kings of France after three generations. I have therefore well earned
the right to be allowed to seek knowledge in mine own way."

"The service of the devil is a poor way to knowledge," said the girl.

"Ah, there it is," said the marshal, raising his hand with gentle deprecation, "even you, who
are so highly privileged, are not wholly superior to vulgar prejudice. I keep a college of
priests for the service of God and the Virgin. They have done me but little good. Surely therefore
I may be allowed a little service of That Other, who has afforded me such exquisite pleasure
and aided me so much. The Master of Evil knows all things, and he can help whom he will to
the secrets of wealth, of power, and of eternal youth."

"Have you gained any of these by the aid of that Master whom you serve?" asked the Lady Sybilla,
with great quiet in her voice.

"Nay, not yet," cried the marshal, moved for the first time, "not yet--perhaps because I have
sought too eagerly and hotly. But I am now at least within sight of the wondrous goal. See,"
he added, with genuine excitement labouring in his voice, "see--I am still a young man, yet
though I, Gilles de Retz, was born to the princeliest fortune in France, and by marriage added
another, they have both been spent well nigh to the last stiver in learning the hidden secrets
of the universe. I am still a young man, I say, but look at my whitening hair, count the deep
wrinkles on my forehead, consider my withered cheek. Have I not tasted all agonies, renounced
all delights, and cast aside all scruples that I might win back my youth, and with it the knowledge
of good and evil?"

Sybilla went to the door and stood again by the curtain.

"Then you swear by your own God that you will let no evil befall the Scottish maids?" she said.

"I have told you already--let that suffice!" he replied with sudden coldness; "you know that,
like the Master whom I serve, I can keep my word. I will not harm them, so long as their Scottish
kinsfolk come not hither meddling with my purposes. I have enough of meddlers in France without
adding outlanders thereto! I cannot keep a new and permanent danger at grass within my gates."

The Lady Sybilla passed through the portal by which she had entered, without adieu or leave-taking
of any kind. Gilles de Retz rose as soon as the curtain had fallen, and shook himself with
a yawn, like one who has got through a troublesome necessary duty. Then he walked to the window
and looked out. The woman had come back and was kneeling before the Hotel de Pornic.

At sight of him she cried with sudden shrillness, "My lord, my great lord, give me back my
child--my little Pierre. He is my heart's heart. My lord, he never did you any harm in all
his innocent life!"

The Marshal de Retz shut the window with a shrug of protest against the vulgarity of prejudice.
He did not notice four men in the garb of pilgrims who stood in the dark of a doorway opposite.

"This is both unnecessary and excessively discomposing," he muttered; "I fear Poitou has not
been judicious enough in his selections."

He turned towards the private door, and as he did so Astarte the she-wolf rose and silently
followed him with her head drooped forward. He went along a dark passage and pushed open a
little iron door. A bright light as of a furnace burnt up before him, and the heat was overpowering
as it rushed like a ruddy tide-race against his face.

"Well, Poitou, does it go better?" he said cheerfully, "or must we try them of the other sex
and somewhat younger, as I at first proposed?"

He let the door slip back, and the action of a powerful spring shut out Astarte. Whereat she
sat down on her haunches in the dark of the passage, and showed her gleaming teeth in a grin,
as, with cocked ears, she listened to the sounds from within the secret laboratory of the Marshal
de Retz.

CHAPTER XLIII

MALISE FETCHES A CLOUT

The four men whom the Messire Gilles, by good fortune, failed to see standing in the doorway
opposite the Hotel de Pornic were attired in the habit of pilgrims to the shrine of Saint James
of Compostella. Upon their heads they wore broad corded hats of brown. Long brown robes covered
them from head to foot. Their heads were tonsured, and as they went along they fumbled at their
beads and gave their benediction to the people that passed by, whether they returned them an
alms or not. This they did by spreading abroad the fingers of both hands and inclining their
heads, at the same time muttering to themselves in a tongue which, if not Latin, was at least
equally unknown to the good folk of Paris.

"It is the house," said the tallest of the four, "stand well back within the shade!"

"Nay, Sholto, what need?" grumbled another, a very thickset palmer he; "if the maids be within,
let us burst the gates, and go and take them out!"

"Be silent, Malise," put in the third pilgrim, whose dress of richer stuff than that of his
companions, added to an air of natural command, betrayed the man of superior rank, "remember,
great jolterhead, that we are not at the gates of Edinburgh with all the south country at our
backs."

The fourth, a slender youth and fresh of countenance, stood somewhat behind the first three,
without speaking, and wore an air of profound meditation and abstraction.

It is not difficult to identify three out of the four. Sholto's quest for his sweetheart was
a thing fixed and settled. That his father and his brother Laurence should accompany him was
also to be expected. But the other and more richly attired was somewhat less easy to be certified.
The Lord James of Douglas it was, who spoke French with the idiomatic use and easy accentuation
of a native, albeit of those central provinces which had longest owned the sway of the King
of France. The brothers MacKim also spoke the language of the country after a fashion. For
many Frenchmen had come over to Galloway in the trains of the first two Dukes of Touraine,
so that the Gallic speech was a common accomplishment among the youths who sighed to adventure
where so many poor Scots had won fortune, in the armies of the Kings of France.

Indeed, throughout the centuries Paris cannot be other than Paris. And Paris was more than
ever Paris in the reign of Charles the Seventh. Her populace, gay, fickle, brave, had just
cast off the yoke of the English, and were now venting their freedom from stern Saxon policing
according to their own fashion. Not the King of France, but the Lord of Misrule held the sceptre
in the capital.

It was not long therefore before a band of rufflers swung round a corner arm-in-arm, taking
the whole breadth of the narrow causeway with them as they came. It chanced that their leader
espied the four Scots standing in the wide doorway of the house opposite the Hotel de Pornic.

"Hey, game lads," he cried, in that roistering shriek which then passed for dashing hardihood
among the youth of Paris, "here be some holy men, pilgrims to the shrine of Saint Denis, I
warrant. I, too, am a clerk of a sort, for Henriet tonsured me on Wednesday sennight. Let us
see if these men of good works carry any of the deceitful vanities of earth about with them
in their purses. Sometimes such are not ill lined!"

The youths accepted the proposal of their leader with alacrity.

"Let us have the blessing of the holy palmers," they cried, "and eke the contents of their
pockets!"

So with a gay shout, and in an evil hour for themselves, they bore down upon the four Scots.

"Good four evangelists," cried the youth who had spoken first--a tall, ill-favoured, and sallow
young man in a cloak of blue lined with scarlet, swaggering it with long strides before the
others, "tell us which of you four is Messire Matthew. For, being a tax-gatherer, he will assuredly
have money of his own, and besides, since the sad death of your worthy friend Judas, he must
have succeeded him as your treasurer."

"This is the keeper of our humble store, noble sir," answered the Lord James Douglas, quietly,
indicating the giant Malise with his left hand, "but spare him and us, I pray you courteously!"

"Ha, so," mocked the tall youth, turning to Malise, "then the gentleman of the receipt of custom
hath grown strangely about the chest since he went a-wandering from Galilee!"

And he reached forward his hand to pull away the cloak which hung round the great frame of
the master armourer.

Malise MacKim understood nothing of his words or of his intent, but without looking at his
tormentor or any of the company, he asked of James Douglas, in a voice like the first distant
mutterings of a thunder-storm, "Shall I clout him?"

"Nay, be patient, Malise, I bid you. This is an ill town in which to get rid of a quarrel once
begun. Be patient!" commanded James Douglas under his breath.

"We are clerks ourselves," the swarthy youth went on, "and we have come to the conclusion that
such holy palmers as you be, men from Burgundy or the Midi, as I guess by your speech, Spaniards
by your cloaks and this good tax-gatherer's beard, ought long ago to have taken the vows of
poverty. If not, you shall take them now. For, most worthy evangelistic four, be it known unto
you that I am Saint Peter and can loose or bind. So turn out your money-bags. Draw your blades,
limber lads!"

Whereupon his companions with one accord drew their swords and advanced upon the Scots. These
stood still without moving as if they had been taken wholly unarmed.

"Shall I clout them now?" rumbled Malise the second time, with an anxious desire in his voice.

"Bide a wee yet," whispered the Lord James; "we will try the soft answer once more, and if
that fail, why then, old Samson, you may clout your fill."

"His fill!" corrected Malise, grimly.

"Your pardon, good gentlemen," said James of Douglas aloud to the spokesman, "we are poor men
and travel with nothing but the merest necessities--of which surely you would not rob us."

"Nay, holy St. Luke," mocked the swarthy one, "not rob. That is an evil word--rather we would
relieve you of temptation for your own souls' good. You are come for your sins to Paris. You
know that the love of money is the root of all evil. So in giving to us who are clerks of Paris
you will not lose your ducats, but only contribute of your abundance to Holy Mother Church.
I am a clerk, see--I do not deceive you! I will both shrive and absolve you in return for the
filthy lucre!"

And, commanding one of his rabble to hold a torch close to his head, he uncovered and showed
a tonsured crown.

"And if we refuse?" said Lord James, quietly.

"Then, good Doctor Luke," answered the youth, "we are ten to four--and it would be our sad
duty to send you all to heaven and then ease your pockets, lest, being dead, some unsanctified
passer-by might be tempted to steal your money."

"Surely I may clout him now?" came again like the nearer growl of a lion from Malise the smith.

Seeing the four men apparently intimidated and without means of defence, the ten youths advanced
boldly, some with swords in their right hands and torches in their left, the rest with swords
and daggers both. The Scots stood silent and firm. Not a weapon showed from beneath a cloak.

"Down on your knees!" cried the leader of the young roisterers, and with his left hand he thrust
a blazing torch into the grey beard of Malise.

There was a quick snort of anger. Then, with a burst of relief and pleasure, came the words,
"By God, I'll clout him now!" The sound of a mighty buffet succeeded, something cracked like
a broken egg, and the clever-tongued young clerk went down on the paving-stones with a clatter,
as his torch extinguished itself in the gutter and his sword flew ringing across the street.

"Come on, lads--they have struck the first blow. We are safe from the law. Kill them every
one!" cried his companions, advancing to the attack with a confidence born of numbers and the
consciousness of fighting on their own ground. He felt immense pain, as if his whole
body had lost the shelter of the wrapper, leaving the meat exposed to air alive.

Wanted to follow his path, but on his head rose the coast forming a concave wall é unapproachable.
Unable to get out. Was saved from the sea, to die face sandwich to him. His body would not float
to a beach inhabited. The only ones who were going to meet his death crabs were huge boulders
traced the search for food in the surf, the seagulls that dropped vertically, with wings outstretched,
from the top of the cliff. Even small crustaceans were superior to him.

He felt at once all its weaknesses, all his misery, while the blood still staining purple the tiny
lakes of the rocks. When you close your eyes to die in the dark saw a pale face, hands that
wove subtle lace, and before night fell definitely on her eyelids, bleating child murmured:

- Mom! ... Mom! ...

Three months later, on arriving at Barcelona, ​​he found his mother as he had seen during His agony
in the Portuguese coast ... Some fishermen picked him up when his life was going to die. During
his stay in the hospital wrote several times to Dona Cristina with
a cheerful tone and confident, claiming important occupations in Lisbon.

At

his entrance, the good lady left her eternal work of lace, pale, hands trembling and glassy eyes. Should
know the whole truth, and if you do not know, is the instinct warned Ulysses seeing mother ailing,
emaciated, vacillating between arrogance and brokenness physical, as well as the brave as they left
the torture chamber.

- Oh, my son ... Long! ...

It was time for adventure ended his anger, his mad desire to tempt the impossible, braving
hazards rather absurd. If I wanted to be a sailor, could be, but respectable vessels, the
service of a great company, following a certain career ladders, not rolling capriciously by
all the seas, mixing with international banditry offered ports to
enhance the crew.

Best of all would be still in home. What happiness if you stay next to your mother! ...

And Odysseus, to the astonishment of Dona Cristina, took that decision. The good lady was not
alone. A niece lived with her, as if her daughter. The sailor had to dig in depths of his memory
to remember a little girl of four years who was to crawl through
the beach in the village of his mother while he, with a severity of
man, having heard the old Secretary of the Municipality of bygone
glories of the Catalan sea.

She was the daughter of a Blanes - the only poor family - who commanded the ships of their
relatives and died of yellow fever by Central American port. Ferragut could not explained how the
creature reptile sand, with an eternal green pearl hanging from their noses, was that very young
slender, pale-brown rice, which held its massive hair similar to an ebony hull with two smaller
spirals to the ears.

Her eyes seemed to be changing sea inks: black a few hours, others blue, green and deep when
reflected sunlight like a golden point.

He was attracted by its simplicity, by the grace of his words and shy smiles. It was something
of irresistible new this ruedamundo that had known only of laughter
coppery bestial, Asian yellow cat or gestures of the great European
ports, to the first words ask to drink and sing about the knees of
the host, putting his cap as a testimony of love.

Tape - this was his name - seemed to know all his life. He had been the subject of their conversations
Dona Cristina when both entertained the monotonous hours knitting lace the use of people. Ulysses
passing to her room, saw his portraits of the time was simply added
to board an ocean liner.

Stolen tape had undoubtedly the rooms of her aunt. I admired that first adventure since long
before meeting him.

One afternoon, he told the sailor to the two women how he had saved
on the coast of Portugal.

The mother heard him turning his eyes, trembling hands to move the bobbin of lace. Suddenly we
heard a scream. Tape was, I could not listen anymore. And Ulysses thanked his tears, their cries
seizure, his eyes wide with an expression of terror.

Ferragut's mother worried about the future of this poor niece. His only salvation was marriage,
and the good lady had set his sights on a relative who went beyond forty, requiring the input
of these youth to refresh your bachelor life mature. It was the wisest of the family. Cristina admired
him because he could not read without the aid of glasses and drank
in the conversation because Latin words, as well as clerics.

He taught rhetoric and Latin at the Institute of Manresa, and spoke of being moved one day
to Barcelona, ​​glorious end an illustrious career.

Every week trip to the capital long visits to the widow of a notary.

- For me it is - said the good lady -. Who is bothered by an old woman? ... I tell you want
to tape, and will be a lucky girl to marry this man so wise, so serious.

Listening, Ulysses began to think what might break a bone, a professor of marine rhetoric without
incurring liability.

One day, Film searched the house and spent a thimble mat that served as many years. Of soon ceased
to rummage, blushed and looked down. His eyes had met the fleeting glance of his cousin. I had him.
In the fourth of Ulysses were tapes, skeins wire, an old fan, deposited on paper and books,
by the same mysterious ebb he had drawn his portraits of her mother's bedroom of his cousin.

The Marine liked to stay home. He spent long hours meditating with his elbows on the table, but at
the same time attentive to a whisper of light steps that sonar could at any moment in the hall
immediately.

All I knew: straight and spherical trigonometry, cosmography, the laws of winds and storms, the
latest discoveries ocean. But who could teach him how to talk to a girl without scaring her? ...
Where the hell was learned the art of pleading to a decent person? ...

It doubts were never long nor painful. Adelante!

Each step comes as it can. And later, when tape was the room to the bedroom of his aunt to bring
a pious book, stumbled into the hallway with Ulysses.

Not know, had trembled for their existence. He was grabbed by strong hands that off the ground.
Then a hungry mouth slammed in his two kisses aggressive. "Here,
and takes !...»

Ferragut repented when he saw his cousin trembling against the wall,
pale death, watery eyes.

- I hurt.

I'm a beast ... A brute!

Almost to his knees, begging his forgiveness, clenched his fists as if to hit, punishing their
audacity. But she would not let him go ... "No, no moaning !...» And while this protest, his arms
closed in a ring around the neck of Ulysses. His head leaned forward, seeking the shelter of his shoulder.
A moderately moist mouth joined at the mouth of the ocean, while
it's beard was wet with a mist of tears.

And do not say more.

When, weeks later, Cristina Dona heard the request of his son, his first move was a protest.
A mother hears with benevolence advance any claim on a daughter but it is ambitious and demanding
when it comes to a child. She had dreamed of something brighter. But his hesitation was short.
Shy girl that was perhaps the best companion to Ulysses.

Also, I was prepared for what he had seen in his childhood, to be the wife of a Marine ... Farewell
to Professor!

They married. Then, Ferragut, who could not live idle, returned to sea, but as first officer
of an ocean liner that made regular trips to South America. For him, this amounted to be used
in a floating office, visiting the same ports, invariably repeating equal work. His mother was
satisfied to see him in uniform. Fixed his eye tape on the calendar as the wife of an employee's
fixed on the clock. He was certain that after two months, he would appear again coming across
the land, charged exotic gifts, like a husband who returns from the office with a bouquet purchased
the street.

Returning from the first two trips went to wait on the dock, looked around her gold lace cap and
blue coat with passengers on ships that were moving decks with the joy of coming to Europe.

On the next trip, Dona Cristina forced her to stay home, fearing that
the excitement agglomerations and jeopardize its next port motherhood.

Then, in each of its arrivals, Ferragut saw a new child, but always the same: first, a wrapper
of batiste and lace held by a nurse Sunday best, then - when he was captain Transatlantic -
a little boy with skirts, chubby, round head covered with silky lint,
tending to it's arms and finally, a boy who began to go to school
and seeing his father grabbed his hard right hand, admiring it with
deep eyes, as though he saw in his person the realization of all the
forces of the universe.

Don Pedro the professor continued to visit the home of Dona Cristina,
although less frequently.

He had resigned and coldly angry gesture of the man who thinks he
has come too late and is convinced that his misfortune is the work
of the neglect ... If he had spoken before!

The certainty of its importance is not allowed to doubt that she would have accepted with joy.

Despite
this conviction, could not contain aggressiveness at times ironic, that is vented classic inventing
nicknames.

The young wife of Odysseus, bent over her lace work, Penelope was awaiting the return of errant
husband.

Cristina accepted this nickname, for knowing vaguely that it was a good queen customs. But the day
the professor, by logical deduction, called Telemachus to Tape son, Grandma protested.

- His name is Stephen, like his grandfather ... Telemachus That is the name of theater.

In one of his trips took Ulysses a scale of a few hours at the port of Valencia to see his godfather.
From time to time received letters from the poet, growing shorter and sad, shaky letters that
betrayed its decline.

Upon entering the office felt the same impression of the sleepers
of the legends, who believe waking up after a few hours of sleep and
stayed dozens of years.

Everything was like in its infancy: the busts of the great poets at the height of the libraries,
crowns in their glass cages, jewelry and statues won by force of consonants in their windows and pedestals,
the books of brilliant back to forming tight battalions along shelves. But the whiteness of the bust
had taken a chocolate color, the bronzes were red with rust, was green gold, crowns are leafless.
It seemed there was rained ash on the immobility of things.

People offered the same aspect of neglect and decay.

Ulysses met the poet skinny and yellow, deep in an armchair, his beard white luenga, one eye almost
closed and Another huge open. Upon seeing the ocean, broad chest, strong man, tan, Labarta
is began to mourn a child hiccups, as if crying on the misery of human illusions, on the deceptive
brevity of life that needs the waves of constant renewal.

More work still cost Ferragut recognize a lady that was small and cramped with the poet. His skeleton
hung flaccid fat tissues, like rags of past luxury. The head was small, her face wrinkling had the
wintry apples, plums, of all fruits that contract and mummified,
losing their liquid.

"Doña Pepa !...» The tuteaban old couple now in the presence of Ulysses, with the quiet amorality
of those who are close to death and forget the fears and scruples
of a life that is crumbling behind him.

The ocean seen in this physical misery the sad end of an absurd diet, happy and childish candy
serve as the basis of nutrition, the major rice-dish daily watermelon
and melon filling in between meals, ice cream served in cups enormous,
spreading the perfume of honeyed snow.

They both spoke sigh of illnesses, who judged incomprehensible, attributing to ignorance of doctors.
Consumption was suddenly attacking the people of the countries abundant.

His life was smelted in a blast of liquid sugar ... And yet guessed Ferragut the disobedience
of the old couple to the disciplines of the regime, its concealment Child tricks to please their
own fruits and syrups, the charm of its existence.

The interview was short. The captain had to return to Grao, where he waited his transatlantic soon
to sail for South America.

The poet cried again, kissing his godson. I would not see more to this giant that seemed to repel
their weak hugs with the bellows of his breath.

- Odysseus, my son ... Valencia always thinking ... Make for it all you can ... And you know. Always
Valencia!

What he vowed all the poet, not understanding what was expected of him Valencia, ocean simple wandering
the seas.

Labarta wanted to accompany him to the door, but sank into his chair, obedient to the despotism
of his loving companion, who feared for him major catastrophes.

Poor Dona Pepa! ... Ferragut felt like to laugh and to mourn when receiving a kiss from his mouth
wrinkled, whose hair had become spikes. It was a kiss that recalls old beauty in contact with a
handsome, a barren woman kiss caressing the child might have.

-
The unfortunate Carmelo!

... Do not write, and do not read ... Ay! What will become of me? ...

He spoke of the decline of his poet with pity of a strong and healthy. Is terrified to think about
the years he could survive his master.

Who look, not looked upon herself.

A year later, the captain found in Port Said, at the back of the Philippines,
a letter his godfather.

Doña Pepa had died, and Labarta, shaking his tearful stupor of its doldrums, the long goodbye
with a song. Ulysses spent the eyes of the newspaper clipping was within the letter containing
the last verses of the poet.

They were verses in Castilian. Bad! ... After that, it was undoubtedly his approaching end.

He had no opportunity to see him again: he died while traveling. Upon landing in Barcelona his
mother gave him a letter written almost in agony. "Valencia, my son always Valencia!" And after
repeating several times this recommendation, let him know it was his heir.

The books, statues, all the glorious memories Labarta, went to Barcelona
for decorate the house of the sailor.

Telemachus could entertain the small breaking the old crowns troubadour,
tearing pictures of volumes, with the unconsciousness of a spirited
child who his father is far away and was exposed to two ladies who
adore him. Furthermore, the poet left his godson an old house in Valencia,
more land and a certain amount in marketable securities. Total: thirty
thousand dollars.

The other guardian of his childhood, the strong
Triton, remained insensitive to the passage of time. Ferragut met
him several times, on arriving at Barcelona, ​​installed in your home,
in dull hostility Dona Cristina, dedicating to Ribbon and her son
a part of the care that was previously only Ulysses.

Steven wanted
the little house knew the great-grandparents.

- Did I leave it? ...
You know that back in the Navy men are strong as bronze. You really
leave me? ...

He doubted his influence with the angry gesture of
soft Dona Cristina. "Trusting his grandson the Triton, that instills
the love of maritime adventure, like Ulysses? ... Behind blue devil!

The
doctor wandered bewildered through the port of Barcelona ... Too much
noise, too much movement. He walked proudly beside Odysseus, making
the adventures of his years of ocean tramp and cosmopolitan. Saw in
him the greatest Ferragut: sea man his grandparents, but with capacity;
adventurous of all the oceans as he had been but with a place on the
bridge, coated conferring absolute command responsibility and danger.

To
re-embark Ulysses Triton retreating to their domains.

- Next time
- said to console to leave without the child of his nephew. So much
was clear to Laurence, who, for the first time, began to have fears as to his own reception,
having such an unpopular person as voucher and introducer.

"If you do not keep a civil tongue in your head, sirrah Labord,"--the youth hissed the words
through his clenched teeth,--"I will have your throat cut."

"Ah, I am too old," said the man, boldly; "besides, this is Paris, and I have been twenty years
concierge to his Grace the Duke of Orleans. I and my wife have his secrets even as you, most
noble Sire de Sillé, possess those of my new master. You, or he either, by God's grace, will
think twice before cutting my throat. Moreover, you will be good enough at this point to state
your business or get to bed. For I am off to mine. I serve my master, but I am not compelled
to spend the night parleying with his lacqueys."

Now the concierges of Paris are very free and independent personages, and their tongues are
accustomed to wag freely and to some purpose in their heads.

"Whither has my master gone?" asked de Sillé, curbing his wrath in order to get an answer.

"He said that he went to Tiffauges. Whether that be true, you have better means of knowing than I."

The swarthy youth turned to Laurence.

"How much money have you, Master O'Halloran? I have spent all of mine, and this city swine
will not lend me a single sou for my expenses. We must to the stables and follow the Sieur
de Retz forthwith to Brittany."

"I have ten golden angels which the prior of the convent gave me at my departure," said Laurence,
with some pride.

His companion nodded approvingly.

"So much will see us through--that is, with care. Give them here to me," he added after a moment's
thought; "I will pay them out with more economy, being of the country through which we pass."

But Laurence, though sufficiently headlong and reckless, had not been born a Scot for naught.

"Wait till there is necessity," he replied cautiously, "and the angels shall not be lacking.
Till then they are quite safe with me. For security I carry them in a secret place ill to be
gotten at hastily."

Gilles de Sillé turned away with some movement of impatience, yet without saying another word
upon the subject.

"To the stables," he said; then turning to the concierge he added, "I suppose we can have horses
to ride after my lord?"

"So far as I am concerned," growled Labord, "you can have all the horses you want--and break
your necks off each one of them if you will. It will save some good hemp and hangman's hire.
Such devil's dogs as you two be bear your dooms ready written on your faces."

And this saying nettled our Laurence, who prided himself no little on an allure blonde and gallant.

But Gilles de Sillé cared no whit for the servitor's sneers, so long as they got horses between
their knees and escaped out of Paris that night. In an hour they were ready to start, and Laurence
had expended one of his gold angels on the provend for the journey, which his companion and
he stored in their saddle-bags.

And in this manner, like an idle lad who for mischief puts body and soul in peril, went forth
Laurence MacKim to take up service with the redoubtable Messire Gilles de Laval, Sieur de Retz,
High Chamberlain of Charles the Seventh, Marshal of France, and lately companion-in-arms of
the martyred Maid of Orleans.

Now, before he went forth from the street of the Ursulines, he had laid a sealed letter on
the bed of his brother, which ran thus: "Ha, Sir Sholto MacKim, while you stand about in the
rain and shiver under your cloak, I am off to find out the mystery. When I have done all without
assistance from the wise Sir Sholto, I will return. But not before. Fare your knightship well."

Laurence and Gilles de Sillé rode out of Paris by the Versailles road, and the latter insisted
on silence till they had passed the forest of St. Cyr, which was at that time exceedingly dangerous
for horsemen not travelling in large companies. Once they were fairly on the road to Chartres,
however, and clear of the valley of the Seine and its tangled boscage of trees, Gilles relaxed
sufficiently to break a bottle of wine to the success of their journey and to the new service
and duty upon which Laurence was to enter at the end of it.

Having proposed this toast, he handed the bumper first to Laurence, who, barely tasting the
excellent Poitevin vintage, handed the leathern bottle back to de Sillé. That sallow youth
immediately, without giving his companion a second chance, proceeded to quaff the entire contents
of the pigskin.

Then as the stiff brew penetrated downwards, it was not long before the favourite of the marshal
began to wax full of vanity and swelling words.

"I tell you what it is," he said, "there would be trembling in the heart of a very great man
when the nine cravens returned without me. For I am no shaveling ignoramus, but a gentleman
of birth; aye, and one who, though poor, is a near cousin of the marshal himself. I warrant
the rascals who ran away would smart right soundly for leaving me behind. For Gilles de Sillé
is no simpleton. He knows more than is written down in the catechism of Holy Church. None can
touch my favour with my lord, no matter what they testify against me. For me I have only to
ask and have. That is why I take such pride in bringing you to my Lord of Retz. I know that
he will give you a post about his person, and if you are not a simple fool you may go very
far. 

Three hours did rise more sour, and another step of the first ridge along it. Of these four
hours, the second and third test was because there was in them all evil that abounds in the forest
during the snow gauge it: air-numbing, vortices which drown, disoriented and stray mists, trails
cleared, soil traitors franked roads with shovels or guessed by the most expert, unexpected falls,
funny many risks and some of them fatal, often scares and incessant toil ... The time that lasted
the passage of the hollow between the first and the second hill was more bearable. Al end of
this basin, ie the beginning of the second hill is the Pedregalón with open mouth a short distance
from the ground and faced to the path that led the expedition. Be discerned very soon the stain
on the stony gray-white background and foams Snow, ten minutes later drew perfectly the mouth of
the cave, and have a little later, something still was not entirely within their jaws open and
disjointed; fifty paces more, and even the least subtle of view met in what seemed crust of
that huge throat and sniffing dogs and the caravan, to pepazo in body and soul. There was a piece of
raw as well as a Japanese idol nestled in his niche, with arms akimbo, the very red cheeks, mouth
from ear to ear and eyes smiling, looking to reach their neighbors, so calm and carefree as
if he had said him to come to that place and time they arrived. For this attitude irrational, was
the greeting that he addressed the newcomers, who could no longer with snowshoeing or with their
own bodies: a storm of insults and nicknames, and even barking dogs.

- Why do not you tiempu golvistes to animal, but animal? - He asked one.

Pepazo To which he replied instantly:

- Because I had empeñau in
tackling the mares, and as pa columbralas nievi served me well dimpués
night fell ... pull, pull, pull, Eyas parriba behind, turns here and
saves acuyá ...

- And where are these beasts to this? - Asked the
priest.

- Sábelu God - pepazo saddened answered the question -.

Al ayegar me to this gem, tresponierum Cumbria Eyas the other as
if the demontris yevaran ... and a galgu echil ... Squeezed blizzard,
thickening the nievi had to walk to Tablanca Muchu, had about this
Cuevona, and here I am so guapamenti mayor.

- And you've been able
to sleep? - I questioned the doctor.

- As he had no other thing ...--
JACER admired mozallón answered the question.

- But remember a damn
thing - insisted Neluco - the fright you gave to your family and all
the people ...

He shrugged his shoulders questioned, as it then fell
for the first time.

The notice, said Don Sabas decomposing a bit:

- And if we had all
been so kestrels like you, what would become of you, if not today,
tomorrow, when you hunger and cold rush?

Another response shrug, as if no such signal had crossed the core
idea of ​​pepazo.

Finally, there was this man into channel ... not much time to lose so they went outsiders in
the Cuevona, work very easy, because it had already reached the half
a yard of snow mouth, rested and ate all by the voracity of pepazo
line, without which provisions have not attained to himself, and as
the sky was blackened bad part, after a little rest they all left
the cave ready against the march, and undertook a good walk down the
hill.

At first everything went well, and until you buzz abounded, hints and ironies untapped to pepazo,
who was not aware of most of them by natural clumsiness of his his
head.

" Whistle Salces atrocities are unleashed against him, and, above all, against Toper, who opened the
door as it closed at a man as smart as one that he (Chorcos) knew
of "equal than with himself, "and that while nothing was said for
certain languages, was the one who planted the jito in the heart of
Tanasi.

This, said between somersaults, hand wringing and laughter, before of all those people, and without
any respect for the authority of the parish priest, left baffled
and fretful to pepazo, Chisco and color of snow, not cold, but righteous
indignation Chorcos that put in serious danger of rolling down a slope
"hung" looming ten rods.

But he spent the brawl, and spent every moment some gusts of north wind that whipped the faces clusters
(such seemed) of dry snow carried.
 For just as the sun was setting they rode all three of them abreast
into the little hamlet of Saint Philbert, and saw the sullen waters of the Étang de Grande
Lieu spread marshy and brackish as far as the eye could reach, edged by peat bogs and overhung
perilously by gloomy pines nodding over pools blacker than scrivener's ink.

As the three Scots looked into the stockaded entrance of the village, they could see the children
playing on the long, irregular street, and the elder folk sitting about their doors in the
evening light.

But as soon as the clatter of horses' hoofs was heard, borne from far down the aisles of the
forest, there arose a sudden clamour and a crying. From each little sparred enclosure rushed
forth a woman who snatched a baby here and there and drove a herd of children before her indoors,
glancing around and behind her as she did so with the anxious look of a motherly barn-door
fowl when the hawk hangs poised in the windless sky.

By the time the three men had entered the gate and ridden up the village street, all was silent
and dark. The windows were shut, the doors were barred, and the village had become a street
of living tombs.

"What means this?" said the Lord James; "the people are surely afraid of us."

"'Tis doubtless but their wonted welcome to their lord, the Sieur de Retz. He seems to be popular
wherever he goes," said Malise, grimly; "but let us dismount and see if we can get stabling
for our beasts. Did they not tell us there was not another house for miles betwixt here and
Machecoul?"

So without waiting for dissent or counter opinion, the master armourer went directly up to
the door of the most respectable-appearing house in the village, one which stood a little back
from the road and was surrounded by a wall. Here he dismounted and knocked loudly with his
sword-hilt upon the outer gate. The noise reverberated up and down the street, and was tossed
back in undiminished volume from the green wall of pines which hemmed in the village.

But there was no answer, and Malise grew rapidly weary of his own clamour.

"Hold my bridle," he said curtly to Sholto, and with a single push of his shoulders he broke
the wooden bar, and the two halves of the outer gate fell apart before him. A great, smooth-haired
yellow dog of the country rushed furiously at the intruders, but Malise, who was as dexterous
as he was powerful, received him with so sound a buffet on the head that he paused bewildered,
shaking his ears, whereat Malise picked him up, tucked him under his arm, and with thumbs about
his windpipe effectually choked his barking. Then releasing him, Malise took no further notice
of this valorous enemy, and the poor, loyal, baffled beast, conscious of defeat, crept shamefacedly
away to hide his disgrace among the faggots.

But Malise was growing indignant and therefore dangerous and ill to cross.

"Never did I see such mannerless folk," he growled; "they will not even give a stranger a word
or a bite for his beast."

Then he called to his companions, "Come hither and speak to these cravens ere I burst their
inner doors as well."

At this by no means empty threat came the Lord James and spoke aloud in his cheery voice to
those within the silent house: "Good people, we are no robbers, but poor travellers and strangers.
Be not afraid. All we want is that you should tell us which house is the inn that we may receive
refreshment for ourselves and our horses."

Then there came a voice from behind the door: "There is no inn nearer than Pornic. We are poor
people and cannot support one. We pray your highness to depart in peace."

"But, good sir," answered James Douglas, "that we cannot do. Our steeds are foot weary with
a long day's journey. Give us the shelter of your barns and a bundle of fodder and we will
be content. We have food and drink with us. Open, and be not afraid."

"Of what country are you? Are you of the household of the Sieur de Retz?"

"Nay," cried James again, "we are pilgrims returning to our own city of Albi in the Tarn country.
We know nothing of any Sieur de Retz. Look forth from a window and satisfy yourself."

"Then if there be treachery in your hearts, beware," said the tremulous voice again; "for I
have four young men here by me whose powder guns are even now ready to fire from all the windows
if you mean harm."

A white face looked out for a moment from the casement, and as quickly ducked within. Then
the voice continued its bleating.

"My lords, I will open the door. But forgive the fears of a poor old man in a wide, empty house."

The door opened and a curious figure appeared within. It was a man apparently decrepit and
trembling, who in one hand carried a lantern and in the other a staff over which he bent with
many wheezings of exhausted breath.

"What would you with a poor old man?" he said.

"We would have shelter and fodder, if it please you to give them to us for the sake of God's
grace."

The old man trembled so vehemently that he was in danger of shaking out the rushlight which
flickered dismally in his wooden lantern.

"I am a poor, poor man," he quavered; "I have naught in the world save some barley meal and
a little water."

"That will do famously," said James Douglas; "we are hungry men, and will pay well for all
you give us."

The countenance of the cripple instantly changed. He looked up at the speaker with an alert
expression.

"Pay," he said, "pay--did you not say you would pay? Why, I thought you were gentlefolks! Now,
by that I know that you are none, but of the commonalty like myself."

James Douglas took a gold angel out of his belt and threw it to him. The cripple collapsed
upon the top of the piece of money and groped vainly for it with eager, outspread fingers in
the dust of the yard.

"I cannot find it, good gentleman," he piped, shrill as an east wind; "alas, what shall I do?
Poor Cæsar cannot find it. It was not a piece of gold;--do tell me that it was not a piece
of gold; to lose a piece of gold, that were ruin indeed."

Sholto picked up the lantern which had slipped from his trembling hand. The tallow was beginning
to gutter out as it lay on its side, and a moment's search showed him the gold glittering on
some farmyard rubbish. With a little shrill cry like a frightened bird the old man fell upon
it, as it had been with claws.

"Bite upon it and see if the gold be good," said Sholto, smiling.

"Alas," cried the cripple, "I have but one tooth. But I know the coin. It is of the right mintage
and greasiness. O lovely gold! Beautiful gentlemen, bide where you are and I will be back with
you in a moment."

And the old man limped away with astonishing quickness to hide his acquisition, lest, mayhap,
his guests should repent them and retract their liberality.

CHAPTER XLVII

CÆSAR MARTIN'S WIFE

Presently he returned and conducted them to a decent stable, where they saw their beasts bestowed
and well provided with bedding and forage for the night. Then the old cripple, more than ever
bent upon his stick, but nevertheless chuckling to himself all the way, preceded them into
the house.

"Ah, she is clever," he muttered; "she thinks her demon tells her everything. But even La Meffraye
will not know where I have hidden that beautiful gold."

So he sniggered senilely to himself between his fits of coughing.

It was a low, wide room of strange aspect into which the old man conducted his guests. The
floor was of hard-beaten earth, but cleanly kept and firm to the feet. The fireplace, with
a hearth round it of built stone, was placed in the midst, and from the rafters depended many
chains and hooks. A wooden settle ran half round the hearthstone on the side farthest from
the draught of the door. The weary three sat down and stretched their limbs. The fire had burnt
low, and Sholto, reaching to a faggot heap by the side wall, began to toss on boughs of green
birch in handfuls, till the lovely white flame arose and the sap spat and hissed in explosive
puffs.

    "Birk when 'tis green
      Makes a fire for a king!"

Malise hummed the old Scots lines, and the cripple coming in at that moment raised a shrill
bark of protest.

"My good wood, my fuel that cost me so many sore backs--be careful, young sir. Faggots of birch
are dear in this country of Machecoul. My lord is of those who give nothing for naught."

"Oh, we shall surely pay for what we use," cried careless James; "let us eat, and warm our
toes, and therewith have somewhat less of thy prating, old dotard. It can be shrewdly cold
in this westerly country of yours."

"Pay," cried the old man, holding up his clawed hands; "do you mean more pay--more besides
the beautiful gold angel? Here--"

He ran out and presently returned with armful after armful of faggots, while his guests laughed
to find his mood so changed.

"Here," he cried, running to and fro like a fretful hen, "take it all, and when that is done,
this also, and this. Nay, I will stay up all night to carry more from the forest of Machecoul."

"And you who were so afraid to open to three honest men, would you venture to bring faggots
by night from yon dark wood?"

"Nay," said the old man, cunningly, "I meant not from the forest, but from my neighbours' woodpiles.
Yet for lovely gold I would even venture to go thither--that is, if I had my image of the Blessed
Mother about my neck and the moon shone very bright."

"Now haste thee with the barley brew," said Lord James, "for my stomach is as deep as a well
and as empty as the purse of a younger son."

The strange cripple emitted another bird-like cachinnation, resembling the sound which is made
by the wooden cogwheels wherewithal boys fright the crows from the cornfields when the August
sun is yellowing the land.

"Poor old Cæsar Martin can show you something better than that," he cried, as he hirpled out
(for so Malise described it afterwards) and presently returned dragging a great iron pot with
a strength which seemed incredible in so ramshackle a body.

"Ha! ha!" he said, "here is fragrant stew; smell it. Is it not good? In ten minutes it will
be so hot and toothsome that you will scarce have patience to wait till it be decently cool
in the platters. This is not common Angevin stew, but Bas Breton--which is a far better thing."

Malise rose, and, relieving the old man, with one finger swung the pot to a crook that hung
over the cheerful blaze of the birchwood.

The old cripple Cæsar Martin now mounted on a stool and stirred the mess with a long stick,
at the end of which was a steel fork of two prongs. And as he stirred he talked:

"God bless you, say I, brave gentlemen and good pilgrims. Surely it was a wind noble and fortunate
that blew you hither to taste my broth. There be fine pigeons here, fat and young. There be
leverets juicy and tender as a maid untried. There--what think you of that?" (he held each
ingredient up on a prong as he spoke). "And here be larks, partridge stuffed with sage, ripe
chestnuts from La Valery, and whisper it not to any of the marshal's men, a fawn from the park
of a month old, dressed like a kid so that none may know."

"I suppose that so much providing is for your four sons?" said Sholto.

The cripple laughed again his feeble, fleering laugh.

"I have no sons, honest sir," he said; "it was but a weakling's policy to tell you so, lest
there should have been evil in your hearts. But I have a wife and that is enough. You may have
heard of her. She is called La Meffraye."

As he spoke his face took on an access of white terror, even as it had done when he looked
out of the window.

"La Meffraye is she well named," he repeated the appellation with a harsh croak as of a night-hawk
screaming. "God forfend that she should come home to-night and find you here!"

"Why, good sir," smiled James Douglas, "if that be the manner in which you speak of your housewife,
faith, I am right glad to have remained a bachelor."

Cæsar the cripple looked about him and lowered his voice.

"Hush!" he quavered, breathing hard so that his words whistled between his toothless gums,
"you do not know my wife. I tell you, she is the familiar of the marshal himself."

"Then," cried James Douglas, slapping his thigh, "she is young and pretty, of a surety. I know
what these soldiers are familiar with. I would that she would come home and partake with us now."

"Nay," said the old man, without taking offence, "you mistake, kind sir, I meant familiar in
witchcraft, in devilry--not (as it were) in levity and cozenage."

The fragrant stew was now ready to be dished in great platters of wood, and the guests fell
to keenly, each being provided with a wooden spoon. The meat they cut with their daggers, but
the most part was, however, tender enough to come apart in their fingers, which, as all know,
better preserves the savour.

At first the cripple denied having any wine, but another gold angel from the Lord James induced
him to draw a leathern bottle from some secret hoard, and decant it into a pitcher for them.
It was resinous and Spanish, but, as Malise said, "It made warm the way it went down." And
after all with wine that is always the principal thing.

As the feast proceeded old Cæsar Martin told the three Scots why the long street of the village
had been cleared of children so quickly at the first sound of their horses' feet.

"And in truth if you had not come across the moor, but along the beaten track from the Chateau
of Machecoul, you would never have caught so much as a glimpse of any child or mother in all
Saint Philbert."

At this point he beckoned Sholto, Malise, and the Lord James to come nearer to him, and standing
with his back to the fire and their three heads very close, he related the terrible tale of
the Dread that for eight years had stalked grim and gaunt through the westlands of France,
La Vendée, and Bas Bretagne. In all La Vendée there was not a village that had not lost a child.
In many a hamlet about the shores of the sunny Loire was there scarce a house from which one
had not vanished. They were seen playing in the greenwood, the eye was lifted, and lo! they
were not. A boy went to the well. An hour after his pitcher stood beside it filled to the brim.
But he himself was never more seen by holt or heath. A little maid, sweet and innocent, looked
over the churchyard wall; she spied something that pleased her. She climbed over to get it--and
was not.

"Oh, I could tell you of a thousand such if I had time," shrilled the thin treble of the cripple
in their eager ears, "if I dared--if I only dared!"

"Dared," said Malise; "why man--what is the matter with you? None could hear you but we three men."

"My wife--my wife," he quavered; "I bid you be silent, or at least speak not so loud. La Meffraye
she is called--she can hear all things. See--"

He made a sudden movement and bared his right arm. It was withered to the shoulder and of a
dark purple colour approaching black.

"La Meffraye did that," he gasped; "she blasted it because I would not do the evil she wished."

"Then why do you not kill her?" said Malise, whose methods were not subtle. "If she were mine,
I would throttle her, and give her body to the hounds."

"Hush, I bid you be silent for dear God's sake in whom I believe," again came the voice of
the cripple. "You do not know what you say. La Meffraye cannot die. Perhaps she will vanish
away in a blast of the fire of hell--one day when God is very strong and angry. But she cannot
die. She only leads others to death. She dies not herself."

"You are kind, gentlemen," he went on after a pause, finding them continue silent; "I will
show you all. Pray the saint for me at his shrine that I may die and go to purgatory. Or (if
it were to a different one) even to hell--that I might escape for ever from La Meffraye."

His hand fumbled a moment at the closely buttoned collar of his blue blouse. Then he succeeded
in undoing it and showed his neck. From chin to bosom it was a mass of ghastly bites, some
partially healed, more of them recent and yet raw, while the skin, so far as the three Scots
could observe it, was covered with a hieroglyphic of scratches, claw marks, and, as it seemed,
the bites of some fierce wild beast.

"Great Master of Heaven!" cried James Douglas. "What hell hound hath done this to you?"

"The wife of my bosom," quoth very grimly Cæsar the cripple.

"A good evening to you, gentlemen all," said a soft and winning voice from the doorway.

At the sound the old man staggered, reeled, and would have swayed into the fire had not Sholto
seized him and dragged him out upon the floor. All rose to their feet.

In the doorway of the cottage stood an old woman, small, smiling, delicate of feature. She
looked benignly upon them and continued to smile. Her hair and her eyes were her most noticeable
features. The former was abundant and hung loosely about the woman's brow and over her shoulders
in wisps of a curious greenish white, the colour almost of mouldy cheese, while, under shaggy
white eyebrows, her large eyes shone piercing and green as emerald stones on the hand of some
dusky monarch of the Orient.

The old woman it was who spoke first, before any of the men could recover from their surprise.

"My husband," she said, still calmly smiling upon them, "my poor husband has doubtless been
telling you his foolish tales. The saints have permitted him to become demented. It is a great
trial to a poor woman like me, but the will of heaven be done!"

The three Scots stood silent and transfixed, for it was an age of belief. But the cripple lay
back on the settle where Sholto had placed him, his lips white and gluey. And as he lay he
muttered audibly, "La Meffraye! La Meffraye! Oh, what will become of poor Cæsar Martin this night!"

CHAPTER XLVIII

THE MERCY OF LA MEFFRAYE

It was a strange night that which the three Scots spent in the little house standing back from
the street of Saint Philbert on the gloomy edges of the forest of Machecoul. The hostess, indeed,
was unweariedly kind and brought forth from her store many dainties for their delectation.
She talked with touching affection of her poor husband, afflicted with these strange fits of
wolfish mania, in the paroxysms of which he was wont to tear himself and grovel in the dust
like a beast.

This she told them over and over as she moved about setting before them provend from secret
stores of her own, obviously unknown or perhaps forbidden to Cæsar Martin.

Wild bee honey from the woods she placed before them and white wheaten bread, such as could
not be got nearer than Paris, with wine of some rarer vintage than that out of the cripple's
resinous pigskin. These and much else La Meffraye pressed upon them till she had completely
won over the Lord James, and even Malise, easy natured like most very strong men, was taken
by the sympathetic conversation and gracious kindliness of the wife of poor afflicted Cæsar
Martin of Saint Philbert. Only Sholto kept his suspicion edged and pointed, and resolved that
he would not sleep that night, but watch till the dawn the things which might befall in the
house on the forest's border.

Yet it was conspicuously to Sholto that La Meffraye directed most of her blandishments.

Her ruddy face, so bright that it seemed almost as if wholly covered with a birthmark, gleamed
with absolute good nature as she looked at him. She threw off the black veil which half concealed
her strange coiffure of green toadstool-coloured hair. She placed her choicest morsels before
the young captain of the Douglas guard.

"'Tis hard," she said, touching him confidentially on the shoulder, "hard to dwell here in
this country wherein so many deeds of blood are wrought, alone with a poor imbecile like my
husband. None cares to help me with aught, all being too busy with their own affairs. It falls
on me to till the fields, which, scanty as they are, are more than my feeble strength can compass
unaided. Alone I must prune and water the vines, bring in the firewood, and go out and in by
night and day to earn a scanty living for this afflicted one and myself. You will hear, perchance,
mischief laid to my charge in this village of evil speakers and lazy folk. They hate me because
I am no gadabout to spend time abusing my neighbours at the village well. But the children
love me, and that is no ill sign. Their young hearts are open to love a poor lone old woman.
What cares La Meffraye for the sneers of the ignorant and prejudiced so long as the children
run to her gladly and search her pockets for the good things she never forgets to bring them
from her kitchen?"

So the old woman, talking all the time, bustled here and there, setting sweet cakes baked with
honey, confitures and bairns' goodies, figs, almonds, and cheese before her guests. But through
all her blandishments Sholto watched her and had his eyes warily upon what should befall her
husband, who could be seen lying apparently either asleep or unconscious upon the bed in an
inner room.

"You do not speak like the folk of the south," she said to the Lord James. "Neither are you
Northmen nor of the Midi. From what country may you come?" The question dropped casually as
to fill up the time.

"We are poor Scots who have lived under the protection of your good King Charles, the seventh
of that name, and having been restored to our possessions after the turning out of the English,
we are making a pilgrimage in order to visit our friends and also to lay our thanks upon the
altar of the blessed Saint Andrew in his own town in Scotland."

The old woman listened, approvingly nodding her head as the Lord James reeled off this new
and original narrative. That lady
was quietly made things, speaking as a son. His look of kindness had a melancholy expression. It
was the sweet sadness of older people that are monotonous This measured the future, and take refuge
in the memories of the past, I envy the young people because they can enjoy in reality what
they savored only in memory.

- Blessed are you! ... Love one a lot! ... Only love is worth the life is worth living.

And Freya, as if irresistibly softened to the above, and moved an arm corseted balloons to the
doctor, pressing convulsively the right hand of Ulysses.

The lenses of gold, with its brightness protector, seemed to encourage them to greater intimacy.
"They could kissing ... "The impressive lady, to facilitate its expansion, was about to leave,
citing a pretext insignificant, when it lifted the curtain of the door between the room with
the office.

A man entered the age of Ferragut, but lower in height, less hardened face tanning by the weather.
He was dressed to the English with scrupulous correctness. Hinted at in the most trivial and
childish concerns at all about the trim of person.

The suit, gray flannel, appeared enhanced by the unity of the tie, socks and handkerchief overlooking
the breast pocket. The three pieces were blue, with no slightest variation in tone, chosen with
precision, as if this man could suffer cruel now out into the street with a color tie and socks
in another. Her gloves had the same dark yellow of his shoes.

Ferragut felt that this gentleman, to be complete, should bring his face shaved. And however,
wore a beard, a beard to the surface of the cheeks and forming the chin short and sharp tip. The
captain felt he was a sailor.

In the German fleet in Russian, in all North Sea, the officers were
not shaved to the English used this traditional chin.

He bowed, or better said, bent at an angle, with sudden stiffness, kissing hands the two ladies.
Then he took a monocle impertinent fixity to one of his eyes, while
Dr. made the presentations.

- Count Kaledine ... Captain Ferragut.

Count shook hands with the sailor, a tough, well maintained and strong
that remained long while on the Ulysses, wanting to dominate with
a pressure no affection.

The conversation continued in English, which was the language used by the doctor in their relations
with Ulysses.

- "The Lord is ocean? - He asked for clarification.

Monocle not moved in its orbit, but a slight tremor of surprise seemed to ruffle his luminous convexity.
The doctor was quick to respond:

- The Count is a distinguished diplomat who is now on leave, caring for your health. He has traveled
much, but it is not marine.

He continued his explanation.

The Kaledine were a noble Russian family of great times Catalina. The doctor, being Polish, I
was connected with them for many years ... And stopped speak, giving
entrance to Kaledine in the conversation.

At first the count was cold and somewhat cavalier in his words, as if he could shed of diplomatic
arrogance. But this pride went slowly melting.

Known for his "distinguished friend Mrs. Talberg" many of the nautical adventures Ferragut. He wanted
to know the men of action, the heroes of the ocean.

Ulises suddenly noticed his noble interlocutor warm affection, such a desire to please to the doctor.
Beautiful home that, in which all strove to be sympathetic Captain Ferragut!

The count, smiling graciously, left to fend English, and he suddenly spoke in Spanish, as if
he had booked this final blow to finish captured his affection with the most irresistible of flattery.

-
I lived in Mexico - said to explain his knowledge of the language -. I made a long trip to
the Philippines when I lived in Japan.

The seas of the Far East were the least frequented by Ulysses. Only twice had Chinese sailed
to ports and Nipponese, but knew enough to keep the conversation
with this flyer showing some sophistication in his tastes as an artist.

For half an hour paraded through the lounge atmosphere of vulgar images of huge roof pagodas
overlapping vibrating in the breeze, like a harp, with its rows of
bells, idols carved monstrous in gold, bronze or ivory paper houses,
bamboo thrones, furniture inlaid mother of pearl, screens with rows
of cranes flying.

Dr. disappeared, stunned by this dialogue, which could only guess at some words. Freya, still, with
the sleepy eyes and a knee between his hands crossed, he kept addition,
understanding the conversation, but without intervening in it, as
if offended oblivion in which the two men left.

Finally he slipped quietly, following the call leaning a hand to
a curtain.

The doctor prepared the tea and asked for help.

The conversation continued without a halt in these absences. Kaledine had abandoned the Asian
seas to go to the Mediterranean, it was anchored to an insistence admiration. Another reason of
affection for Ferragut, who was increasingly sympathetic, notwithstanding her try a little ice
age.

Suddenly realized that was not the Russian count who spoke, as with brief and accurate questions
made him speak to him, as if he is subjected to review.

Appreciated the expressions of interest that this great traveler gave
the small mare nostrum, and especially by the particularities of its
western basin, which wanted to know thoroughly.

Could ask how I wanted. Ferragut had mile by mile all the Spanish coast, the French and Italian, and
on the surface and in its funds.

Kaledine, perhaps to live in Naples, insisted on the Mediterranean predilection between Sardinia,
Southern Italy and Sicily, or is what the ancients called the Tyrrhenian Sea ... Did you know
Captain Ferragut islands unfrequented and almost forgotten across from Sicily?

- I know everything - he said proudly.

And fully discern whether it was curiosity or if the count would be subject to a review concerned,
talked and talked.

He knew the Lipari archipelago, with its mining of sulfur and pumice, group of volcanic peaks
rising from the depths of the Mediterranean. They were placed the former to Aeolus, god of the
winds in them is throwing huge balls Stromboli lava, bursting with a roar of thunder. The
volcanic scoria fall back into the chimneys of the crater or roll down the slope of the mountain
sinking into the waves.

Further west, isolated and lonely in a sea clear of obstacles, is Ustica, a volcanic island and
abrupt that the Phoenicians settled and served as a refuge for pirates
Saracen.

Its population is scarce and poor. Nothing to do with it, apart from some fossil shells of interest
to men of science ...

But the count was interested in this crater, dead and alone in the middle of a sea only frequent
the fishing boats.

Ferragut had seen also, although by far, entering the port of Trapani,
the archipelago of Egadi where large tuna fisheries.

Once he landed in Pantelleria island, midway between Sicily and Africa.

He was a towering volcanic cone emerging in the middle of the strait, and at whose feet were alkaline
lakes, sulphurous smoke, hot springs and prehistoric building blocks, like those of Sardinia
and the Balearics. Ships to Tunis and Tripoli were taking shipment of raisins, only export of
this ancient Phoenician colony.

Between Pantelleria and Sicily, the sea floor rose considerably, saving on its back a water
layer at some points was only twelve feet thick.

Was extensive bank called the Adventure, swelling volcanic island
flooded twice, submarine pedestal Sicily.

Also, the bank appeared to interest the Count Aventura.

- Well you
know the sea - said in a tone of approval.

Ferragut was going to keep talking, but the two ladies entered with a tray containing service area
and various dishes of cakes.

The captain was no surprise that lack of bondage. The doctor and his friend were to him a women
of extraordinary ways, and all the actions was logical and natural. Freya served tea with modest
grace, as if was the daughter of the house.

They spent the rest of the afternoon talking on distant voyages. No one mentioned the war or to the
concerns of Italy at that time to maintain their neutrality or leave it. Seemed to live in a place
inaccessible to thousands of miles around the human throng.

The two women tried to count, with a familiarity of tone, as persons
of the same world, but the sailor thought he noticed at times that
you were afraid.

By late afternoon, this person left his seat, and Ferragut did the
same, comprising that would put an end to his visit.

The count offered to accompany him. While saying goodbye the doctor, thanking him with extreme
courtesy would have made known to the captain, he Freya felt squeezed his hand significantly.

-
After Dark - mumbled slightly, without moving his lips barely -. Come back later ... Wait.

Oh,
joy! ... The eyes, the smile, the pressure of the hand, saying to
him more.

Never got a ride as nice as they marched alongside Kaledine through the streets of Chiaia toward
the shore. What did this man? ... Little things to keep silence, but he seemed to observations
of deep wisdom. His voice was, he said, harmonious and caressing. Everything was just lovely, the
people walking the streets, Neapolitan noise dark, dark sea, the
whole life.

They parted at the door of the hotel. The count, in spite of his offers of friendship, went
without saying what their home.

"No matter - thought Ferragut -.

Return home to find the doctor. "

The rest of the evening was spent alternately agitated by hope and
impatience.

No I wanted to eat, the emotion had paralyzed his appetite ... And once seated at table, ate More
than ever, with an eagerness mechanical and distracted.

I needed to walk, talk to someone, for the passage of time more quickly, deceiving his restless
waiting.

She did not return to the hotel until very late ... And precisely
retired to his room earlier than usual, thinking, with an illogical
superstitious that this would come before Freya.

His first movement was seen in his room with pride. Looked at the
ceiling, pitying the ocean love that one week before lived upstairs.

Poor man! How they had laughed it! ... Odysseus himself was admired as a completely new personality,
happy and successful, separated from each other by a painful period
of humiliations and failures did not want to remember.

Very long hours of anxiously awaiting! ... Paced smoking, lighting
a cigarette in the rest of the former.

He opened the window, wanting to erase the scent of strong snuff. She just liked oriental cigarettes
... And the acrid smell persists cigar Tan, juicy and brave, reached into his bag of toiletries, spilling
onto the bed fund several bottles of essence long forgotten.

A sudden concern bitter waiting. Which was about to reach what was perhaps unaware of their room.
He was not sure giving him the address with sufficient clarity. It was possible that would have been
wrong ... Began to believe that indeed he was wrong.

The fear and impatience made him open his door, standing on the porch to watch by far the closed
room Freya. Every time I sounded on the stairs creaked or lift gate,
the bearded sailor shook a child concern.

Wanted hide and at the same time wanted to look, if she was coming.

Guests who lived on the same floor you were seeing, to retire to their
quarters, the most inexplicable attitudes.

Sometimes he stood firm in the corridor, such as waiting to the home,
tired of futile appeals.

Other times I caught his head appear at the door ajar, withdrawing abruptly. An elderly Italian
count him went to pass a smile of intelligence and companionship ... I was in the secret! Waiting,
Undoubtedly, one of the maids of the hotel.

Finally get into the
room, but leaving the door open ... A rectangle of deep light that
is marked on the ground and the opposite wall would lead to Freya,
indicating the road.

Nor could he long maintain this signal. Ladies
badly covered with a kimono, lords pajamas, slipped quietly down the
hall on the quiet softness of her slippers, all in the same direction,
casting a look of anger toward the door, surprising light the secret
of their bodily misery.

Finally had to close the door. Opened a book,
and it was impossible to read two paragraphs in a row. Your clock
struck twelve.

- Do not come! ... Will not come! - Said in despair.

A
new idea served as a relief. It was impossible for one person dared
discreet as Freya to advance to his room watching light under the
door. Love needs dark and mystery. In addition, the expected visible
espionage could attract some curious.

He turned the power switch
in the dark and sought his bed, lying with a noise exaggerated, so
that nobody could doubt that he slept. This gloom revived their hopes.

-
Is coming ... Come from one moment to another.

Again got up cautiously,
without noise, tiptoeing. Had to provide difficulties in the entrance.
He left the door slightly ajar to prevent noise rotary knob. A chair
held his blade gently supported under the doorway.

Still got up several
times, shedding in each of these jumps from one part of their dresses.
So await better.

He stretched on the bed, ready to stay awake all
car if necessary. Should not sleeping, not wanting to sleep so ordered
his will ... Half an hour later asleep, without knowing what time
was left by the soft rolling hills of sleep.

He awoke suddenly, as
if he had been dealt a blow to the skull. His ears were ringing ...
It was a sharp impression of that desire to sleep without sleeping
and feel shaken by concerns resuscitator. It took a while to realize
their situation. Then I remembered all of blow ... Solo! ... She had
not come! ... Knew if they went after minutes or hours.

Another thing,
besides the concern, had returned to life. Guessed in the silent darkness
something approaching real. A little mouse seemed to move in the corridor.
Shoes positioned at one of the doors slid with a slight squeak. Ferragut
felt a vague impression air that moves with the slow progress of a
body.

Moved the door, the seat back gradually, gently pushed. In
the dark Moving Shadow was making a much more black and dense. He
made a movement.

- Stop! - Sighed a faint voice, a ghost, a voice
from another world -. Me.

But Ferragut had jumped down bed, moving
his hands in the shade. He stumbled over some morbid bare arms, then
with the soft freshness of meat wrapped in veils.

Instinctively brought
his right hand to the wall, and there was light.

Under the electric
lamp she was, a different Freya he had ever seen, with opulent hair
falling into serpents on his shoulders, completely naked inside an
Asian robe enveloped in a cloud. What happened
after that?"

"This," said Malise, sententiously, pointing to the heaps of dead wolves which were becoming
more apparent as the night ebbed and the blue flame rose and fell like a fluttering pulse along
the horizon.

"Then to one or the other of you I owe my life," said Lord James Douglas, reaching a hand to both.

"Sholto dragged you from under half a dozen of the devils," said Malise.

"My father it was who brought you to," said Sholto.

"I thank you both with all my heart--for this as for all the rest. I know not, indeed, where
to begin," said James Douglas, gratefully. "Give me your hands. I can stand upright now."

So saying, and being assisted by Malise, he rose to his feet.

"Will they come again?" he asked, as with an intense disgust he surveyed the battle-field in
the intermittent light from over the marshes.

"Listen," said Malise.

The low howling of the wolves had retreated farther, but seemed to retain more and more of
its strange human character.

"La Meffraye! La Meff--raye!" they seemed to wail, with a curious swelling upon the last syllable.

"I hear only the yelling of the infernal brutes," said the Lord James; "they seem to be calling
on their patron saint--the woman whom we saw in the house of the poor cripple. I am sure I
saw her going to and fro among the devils and encouraging them to the assault."

"'Tis black work at the best," answered Malise; "these are no common wolves who would dare
to attack armed men--demons of the nethermost pit rather, driven on by their hellish hunt-mistress.
There will be many dead warlocks to-morrow throughout the lands of France."

"Stand to your arms," cried Sholto, from the other side of the tree. And indeed the howling
seemed suddenly to grow nearer and louder. The noise circled about them, and they could again
perceive dusky forms which glided to and fro in the faint light among the arches of the forest.

In the midst of the turmoil Malise took off his bonnet and stood reverently at prayer.

"Aid us, Thy true men," he cried in a loud and solemn voice, "against all the powers of evil.
In the name of God--Amen!"

The howling stopped and there fell a silence. Lord James would have spoken.

"Hush!" said Malise, yet more solemnly.

And far off, like an echo from another world, thin and sweet and silver clear, a cock crew.

The blue leaping flame of the wild-fire abruptly ceased. The dawn arose red and broad in the
east. The piles of dead beasts shone out black on the grey plain of the forest glade, and on
the topmost bough of a pine tree a thrush began to sing.

CHAPTER L

THE ALTAR OF IRON

And now what of Master Laurence, lately clerk in the Abbey of Dulce Cor, presently in service
with the great Lord of Retz, Messire Gilles de Laval, Marshal and Chamberlain of the King of
France?

Laurence had been a month at Machecoul and had not yet worn out his welcome. He was sunning
himself with certain young clerks and choristers of the marshal's privy chapel of the Holy
Innocents. Suddenly Clerk Henriet appeared under the arches at the upper end of the pretty
cloisters, in the aisles of which the youths were seated. Henriet regarded them silently for
a moment, looking with special approval upon the blonde curls and pink cheeks of the young
Scottish lad.

Machecoul was a vast feudal castle with one great central square tower and many smaller ones
about it. The circuit of its walls enclosed gardens and pleasaunces, and included within its
limits the new and beautiful chapel which has been recently finished by that good Catholic
and ardent religionary, the Marshal de Retz.

As yet, Laurence had been able to learn nothing of the maids, not even whether they were alive
or dead, whether at Machecoul or elsewhere. At the first mention of maidens being brought from
Scotland to the castle, or seen about its courts, a dead silence fell upon the company of priests
and singers in the marshal's chapel. It was the same when Laurence spoke of the business privately
to any of his new acquaintances.

No matter how briskly the conversation had been prospering hitherto, if, at Holy Mass or jovial
supper board, Laurence so much as breathed a question concerning the subject next his heart,
an instant blight passed over the gaiety of his companions. Fear momently wiped every other
expression from their faces, and they answered with lame evasion, or more often not at all.

The shadow of the Lord of Machecoul lay heavy upon them.

Clerk Henriet stood awhile watching the lads and listening to their talk behind the carved
lattice of Caen stone, with its lace-like tracery of buds and flowers, through which the natural
roses pushed their way, and over which the clematis tangled its twining stems.

"Stand up and prove on my body that I am a rank Irelander," Laurence was saying defiantly to
the world at large, with his fists up and his head thrown back. "Saint Christopher, but I will
take the lot of you with one hand tied behind me. Stand up and I will teach you how to sing
'Miserable sinners are we all!' to a new and unkenned tune."

"'Tis easy for you to boast, Irelander," retorted Blaise Renouf, the son of the lay choir-master,
who had been brought specially from Rome to teach the choir-boys of the marshal's chapel the
latest fashions in holy song. "We will either fight you with swords or not at all. We do not
fight with our bare knuckles, being civilised. And that indeed proves that you are no true
lover of the French, but an English dog of unknightly birth."

This retort still further irritated the hot-headed son of Malise.

"I will fight you or any galley slave of a French frog with the sword, or spit you upon the
rapier. I will cleave you with the axe, transfix you with the arrow, or blow you to the pit
with the devil's sulphur. I will fight any of you or all of you with any weapons from a battering-ram
to a toothpick--and God assist the better man. And there you have Laurence O'Halloran, at your
service!"

"You are a loud-crowing young cock for a newcomer," said Henriet, the confidential clerk of
the marshal, suddenly appearing in the doorway; "you are desired to follow me to my lord's
chamber immediately. There we will see if you will flap your wings so boldly."

Laurence could not help noticing the blank alarm which this announcement caused among the youth
with whom he had been playing the ancient game of brag.

It was Blaise Renouf who first recovered. He looked across the little rose-grown space of the
cloister to see that Henriet had turned his back, and then came quickly up to Laurence MacKim.

"Listen to me," he said; "you are a game lad enough, but you do not know where you are going,
nor yet what may happen to you there. We will fight you if you come back safe, but meantime
you are one of ourselves, and we of the choir have sworn to stand by one another. Can you keep
a pea in your mouth without swallowing it?"

"Why, of course I can," said Laurence, wondering what was to come next. "I can keep a dozen
and shoot them through a bore of alder tree at a penny without missing once, which I wot is
more than any Frenchman ever--"

"Well, then," whispered the lad Renouf, breaking in on his boast with a white countenance,
"hearken well to me. When you enter the chamber of the marshal, put this in your mouth. And
if nothing happens keep it there, but be careful neither to swallow it nor yet to bite upon
it. But if it should chance that either Henriet or Poitou or Gilles de Sillé seize hold of
your arms, bite hard upon the pellet till you feel a bitter taste and then swallow. That is
all. You are indeed a cock whose comb wants cutting, and if all be well, we will incise it
for your soul's good. But in the meanwhile you are of our company and fellowship. So for God's
sake and your own do as you are bid. Fare you well."

As he followed Clerk Henriet, Laurence looked at the round pellet in his hand. It was white,
soft like ripe fruit, of an elastic consistency, and of the largeness of a pea.

As Laurence ascended the stairs, he heard the practice of the choir beginning in the chapel.
Precentor Renouf, the father of Blaise, had summoned the youths from the cloisters with a long
mellow whistle upon his Italian pitch-pipe, running up and down the scale and ending with a
flourished "A-a-men."

The open windows and the pierced stone railing of the great staircase of Machecoul brought
up the sound of that sweet singing from the chapel to the ear of the adventurous Scot as through
a funnel. They were beginning the practice for the Christmas services, though the time was
not yet near.

    "Unto God be the glory
                  In the Highest;
      Peace be on the earth,
                  On the earth,
      Unto men who have good-will."

So they chanted in their white robes in the Chapel of the Holy Innocents in the Castle of Machecoul
near by the Atlantic shore.

The chamber of Gilles de Retz testified to the extraordinary advancement of that great man
in knowledge which has been claimed as peculiar to much later centuries. The window casements
were so arranged that in a moment the place could either be made as dark as midnight or flooded
with bright light. The walls were always freshly whitewashed, and the lime was constantly renewed.
The stone floor was stained a deep brick red, and that, too, would often be applied freshly
during the night. At a time when the very word "sanitation" was unknown, Gilles had properly
constructed conduits leading from an adjoining apartment to the castle ditch. The chimney was
wide as a peasant's whole house, and the vast fireplace could hold on its iron dogs an entire
waggon-load of faggots. Indeed, that amount was regularly consumed every day when the marshal
deigned to abide at Machecoul for his health and in pursuance of his wonderful studies into
the deep things of the universe.

"Bide here a moment," said Clerk Henriet, bending his body in a writhing contortion to listen
to what might be going on inside the chamber; "I dare not take you in till I see whether my
lord be in good case to receive you."

So at the stair-head, by a window lattice which looked towards the chapel, Laurence stood and
waited. At first he kept quite still and listened with pleasure to the distant singing of the
boys. He could even hear Precentor Renouf occasionally stop and rebuke them for inattention
or singing out of tune.

    "My soul is like a watered garden,
      And I shall not sorrow any more at all!"

So he hummed as he listened, and beat the time on the ledge with his fingers. He felt singularly
content. Now he was on the eve of penetrating the mystery. At last he would discover where
the missing maidens were concealed.

But soon he began to look about him, growing, like the boy he was, quickly weary of inaction.
His eye fell upon a strange door with curious marks burnt upon its panels apparently by hot
irons. There were circles complete and circles that stopped half-way, together with letters
of some unknown language arranged mostly in triangles.

This door fixed the lad's attention with a certain curious fascination. He longed to touch
it and see whether it opened, but for the moment he was too much afraid of his guide's return
to summon him into the presence of the marshal.

He listened intently. Surely he heard a low sound, like the wind in a distant keyhole--or,
as it might be (and it seemed more like it), the moaning of a child in pain, it knows not why.

The heart of the youth gave a sudden leap. It came to him that he had hit upon the hiding-place
of Margaret Douglas, the heiress of the great province of Galloway. His fortune was made.

With a trembling hand he moved a step towards the door of white wood with the curious burned
marks upon it. He stood a moment listening, half for the returning footsteps of Clerk Henriet,
and half to the low, persistent whimper behind the panels. Suddenly he felt his right foot
wet, for, as was the fashion, he wore only a velvet shoe pointed at the toe. He looked down,
and lo! from under the door trickled a thin stream of red.

Laurence drew his foot away, with a quick catching sob of the breath. But his hand was already
on the door, and at a touch it appeared to open almost of its own accord. He found himself
looking from the dusk of the outer whitewashed passage into a high, vaulted chapel, wherein
many dim lights glimmered. At the end there was a great altar of iron standing square and solemn
upon the platform on which it was set up, and behind it, cut indistinctly against a greenish
glow of light, and imagined rather than clearly defined, the vast statue of a man with a curiously
high shaped head. Laurence could not distinguish any features, so deep was the gloom, but the
whole figure seemed to be bending slightly forward, as if gloating upon that which was laid
upon the altar. But what struck Laurence with a sense of awe and terror was the fact that as
the greenish light behind waxed and waned, he could see shadowy horns which projected from
either side of the forehead, and lower, short ears, pricked and shaggy like those of a he-goat.

Nearer the door, where he stood in the densest gloom, something moved to and fro, and as his
eyes grew accustomed to the darkness Laurence could see that it was the bent figure of a woman.
He could not distinguish her face, but it was certainly a woman of great age and bodily weakness,
whose tangled hair hung down her back, and who halted curiously upon one foot as she walked.
She was bending over a low couch, whereon lay a little shrouded figure, from which proceeded
the low whimpering sound which he had heard from without. But even at that moment, as he waited
trembling at the door, the moaning ceased, and there ensued a long silence, in which Laurence
could clearly distinguish the beating of his own heart. It sounded loud in his ears as a drum
that beats the alarm in the streets of a city.

The figure of the woman bent low to the couch, and, after a pause, with a satisfied air she
threw a white cloth over the shrouded form which lay upon it. Then, without looking towards
the door where Laurence stood, she went to the great iron altar at the upper end of the weird
chapel and threw something on the red embers which glowed upon it.

"Barran--most mighty Barran-Sathanas, accept this offering, and reveal thyself to my master!"
she said in a voice like a chant.

A greenish smoke of stifling odour rose and filled all the place, and through it the huge horned
figure above the altar seemed to turn its head and look at the boy.

Laurence could scarcely repress a cry of terror. He set his hand to the door, and lo! as it
had opened, so it appeared to shut of itself. He sank almost fainting against the cold iron
bars of the window which looked out upon the courtyard below. The wind blew in upon him sweet
and cool, and with it there came again the sound of the singing of the choir. They were practising
the song of the Holy Innocents, which, by command of the marshal himself, Precentor Renouf
had set to excellent and accordant music of his own invention.

    "A voice was heard in Ramah,
                             In Ramah,
      Lamentations and bitter weeping,
      Rachel weeping for her children,
      Refused to be comforted:
                             For her children,
      Because they were not."

Obviously there was some mistake or lack of attention on the part of the choir, for the last
line had to be repeated three times.

    "Because they were not."

CHAPTER LI

THE MARSHAL'S CHAMBER

There came a low voice in Laurence MacKim's ear, chill and sinister: "You do well to look out
upon the fair world. None knoweth when we may have to leave it. Yonder is a star. Look well
at it. They say God made it. Perhaps He takes more interest in it than in the concerns of this
other world He hath made."

The son of Malise MacKim gripped himself, as it were, with both hands, and turned a face pale
as marble to look into the grim countenance which hid the soul of the Lord of Machecoul.

Gilles de Retz appeared to peruse each feature of the boy's person as if he read in a book.
Yet even as Laurence gave back glance for glance, and with the memory of what he had seen yet
fresh upon him, a strange courage began to glow in the heart of the young Scot. There came
a kind of contempt, too, into his breast, as though he had it in him to be a man in despite
of the devil and all his works.

The marshal continued his scrutiny, and Laurence returned his gaze with interest.

"Well, boy," said the marshal, smiling as if not ill pleased at his boldness, "what do you
think of me?"

"I think, sir," said Laurence, simply, "that you have grown older since I saw you in the lists
at Thrieve."

It seemed to Laurence that the words were given him. And all the time he was saying to himself:
"Now I have done it. For this he will surely put me to death. He cannot help himself. Why did
I not stick to it that I was an Irelander?"

But, somehow, the answer seemed like an arrow from a bow shot at a venture, entering in between
the joints of the marshal's armour.

"Do you think so?" he said, with some startled anxiety, yet without surprise; "older than at
Thrieve? I do not believe it. It is impossible. Why, I grow younger and younger every day.
It has been promised me that I should."

And setting his elbow on the sill of the window, Gilles de Retz looked thoughtfully out upon
the cool dusk of the rose garden. Then all at once it came to him what was implied in that
unlucky speech of Laurence's. The grim intensity returned to his eyes as he erected himself
and bent his brows, white with premature age, upon the boy, who confronted him with the fearlessness
born of youth and ignorance.

"Ah," he said, "this is interesting; you have changed your nation. You were an Irishman to
De Sillé in Paris, to the clerk Henriet, and to the choir at Machecoul. Yet to me you admit
in the very first words you speak that you are a Scot and saw me at the Castle of Thrieve."

Even yet the old Laurence might have turned the corner. He had, as we know, graduated as a
liar ready and expert. He had daily practised his art upon the Abbot. He had even, though more
rarely, succeeded with his father. But now in the day of his necessity the power and wit had
departed from him.

To the lord of the Castle of Machecoul Laurence simply could not lie. Ringed as he was by evil,
his spirit became strong for good, and he testified like one in the place of final judgment,
when the earthly lendings of word and phrase and covering excuse must all be cast aside and
the soul stand forth naked and nakedly answer that which is required.

"I am a Scot," said Laurence, briefly, and without explanation.

"Come with me into my chamber," said the marshal, and turned to precede him thither.

And without word of complaint or backward glance, the lad followed the great lord to the chamber,
into which so many had gone before him of the young and beautiful of the earth, and whence
so few had come out alive.

As he passed the threshold, Laurence put into his mouth the elastic pellet which had been given
him by Blaise Renouf, the choir-master's son.

The marshal threw himself upon a chair, reclining with a wearied air upon the hands which were
clasped behind his head. In the action of throwing himself back one could see that Gilles de
Retz was a young and not an old man, though ordinarily his vitality had been worn to the quick,
and both in appearance and movement he was already prematurely aged.

"What is your name?"

The question came with military directness from the lips of the marshal of France.

"Laurence MacKim," said the lad, with equal directness.

"For what purpose did you come to the Castle of Machecoul?"

"I came," said Laurence, coolly, "to take service with you, my lord. And because I was tired
of monk rule, and getting only the husks of life, tired too of sitting dumb and watching others
eat the kernel."

"Ha!" cried Gilles de Retz, "I am with you there. There is, after all, some harmony between
our immortal parts. For my part, I would have all of life,--husk, kernel, stalk,--aye, and
the root that grows amid the dung."

He paused a moment, looking at Laurence with the air of a connoisseur.

"Come hither, lad," he said, with a soft and friendly accent; "sit on this seat with your back
to the window. Turn your head so that the lamp shines aright upon your face. You are not so
handsome as was reported, but that there is something wondrously taking about your countenance,
I do admit. There--sit so, and fear nothing."

Laurence sat down with the bad grace of a manly youth who is admired for what he privately
despises, and wishes himself well quit of. But, notwithstanding this, there was something so
insinuating and pleasant about the marshal's manner that the lad almost thought he must have
dreamed the incident of the burned door and the sacrifice upon the iron altar.

"You came hither to search for Margaret of Douglas," said the marshal, suddenly bending forward
as if to take him by surprise.

Laurence, wholly taken aback, answered neither yea nor nay, but held his peace.

Then Gilles de Retz nodded sagely, with a quiet satisfaction in his own prevision, which to
one less bold and reckless than the young clerk of Dulce Cor would have proved disconcerting.
Then he propounded his next question:

"How many came hither with you?"

"One," said Laurence, promptly; "I came here alone with your servant De Sillé."

The marshal smiled.

"Good--we will try some other method with you," he said; "but be advised and speak. None hath
ever hidden aught from Gilles de Retz."

"Then, my lord," said Laurence, "there is the less reason for you to put me to the question."

"I can expound dark speeches," said the marshal, "and I also know my way through the subtleties
of lying tongues. Hope not to lie to me. How many were they that came to France with you?"

"I will not tell you," said the son of Malise.

The marshal smiled again and nodded his head repeatedly with a certain gustful appreciation.

"You would make a good soldier. It is a pity that I have gone out of the business. Yet I have
only (as it were) descended from wholesale to particular, from the gross to the detail."

Laurence, who felt that the true policy was to be sparing of his words, made no answer.

"You say that you are a clerk. Can you read Latin?"

"Yes," said Laurence, "and write it too."

"Read this, then," said the marshal, and handed him a book.

Laurence had been well instructed in the humanities by Father Colin of Saint Michael's Kirk
by the side of Dee water, and he read the words, which record the cruelties of the Emperor
Caligula with exactness and decorum.

"You read not ill," said his auditor; "you have been well taught, though you have a vile foreign
accent and know not the shades of meaning that lie in the allusions.

"You say that you came to Machecoul with desire to serve me," the marshal continued after a
pause for thought. "In what manner did you think you could serve, and why went you not into
the house of some other lord?"

"As to service," said Laurence, "I came because I was invited by your henchman de Sillé. And
as to what I can do, I profess that I can sing, having been well taught by a master, the best
in my country. I can play upon the viol and eke upon the organ. I am fairly good at fence,
and excellent as any at singlestick. I can faithfully carry a message and loyally serve those
who trust me. I would have some money to spend, which I have never had. I wish to live a life
worth living, wherein is pleasure and pain, the lack of sameness, and the joy of things new.
And if that may not be--why, I am ready to die, that I may make proof whether there be anything
better beyond."

"A most philosophic creed," cried the marshal. "Well, there is one thing in which I can prove,
if indeed you lie not. Sing!"

Then Laurence stood up and sang, even as the choir had done, the lamentation of Rachel according
to the setting of the Roman precentor.

    "A voice was heard in Ramah!"

And as he sang, the Lord of Retz took up the strain, and, with true accord and feeling, accompanied
him to the end.

"Brava!" cried Gilles de Retz when Laurence had finished; "that is truly well sung indeed!
You shall sing it alone in my chapel next feast day of the Holy Innocents."

He paused as if to consider his words.

"And now for this time go. But remember that this Castle of Machecoul is straiter than any
prison cell, and better guarded than a fortress. It is surrounded with constant watchers, secret,
invisible, implacable. Whoso tries to escape, dies. You are a bold lad, and, as I think, fear
not much death for yourself. But come hither, and I will show you something which will chain
you here."

With a kind of solicitous familiarity the Marshal de Retz took the lad by the arm and drew
him to another window on the further side of the keep.

"Look forth and tell me what you see," he said.

Laurence set his head out of the window. He looked upon an intricate mass of building, composing
the western wing of the castle, and it was some moments before he could distinguish what the
Sieur de Retz wished him to see. Then, as his eyes took in the details, he saw on the flat
roof of a square tower beneath him two maidens seated, and when he looked closer--lo! they
were Margaret Douglas and, beside her, his brother's sweetheart Maud Lindesay. These two were
sitting hand in hand, as was their wont, and the head of the child was bowed almost to her
friend's knee. Maud's arm was about Margaret's neck, and her fingers caressed the childish
tangle of hair. Presently the elder lifted the younger upon her knee and hushed her like a
mother who puts a tired child to sleep.

Immediately behind this group, in the shadow of a buttress, Laurence saw a tall man, masked,
clad in a black suit, and with a drawn sword in his hand.

The marshal looked out over the lad's shoulder.

"The day you are missed from the Castle of Machecoul, or the day that the rest of your company
arrives here, that sword shall fall, but in a more terrible fashion than I can tell you! That
sentinel can neither hear nor speak, but he has his orders and will obey them. I bid you good
night. Go to your singing in the choir. It is time for the chanting of vespers in the chapel
of the Holy Innocents."

CHAPTER LII

THE JESTING OF LA MEFFRAYE

It was in the White Tower of Machecoul that the Scottish maidens were held at the mercy of
the Lord of Retz. At their first arrival in the country they had been taken to the quiet Chateau
of Pouzauges, the birthplace of Poitou, the marshal's most cruel and remorseless confidant.
Here, as the marshal had very truly informed the Lady Sybilla, they had been under the care
of--or, rather, fellow-prisoners with--the neglected wife of Gilles de Retz, and at Pouzauges
they had spent some days of comparative peace and security in the society of her daughter.

But at the first breath of the coming of the three strangers to the district they had been
seized and securely conveyed to Machecoul itself--there to be interned behind the vast walls
and triple bastions of that fortress prison.

"I wonder, Maudie," said Margaret Douglas, as they sat on the flat roof of the White Tower
of Machecoul and looked over the battlements upon the green pine glades and wide seaward Landes,
"I wonder whether we shall ever again see the water of Dee and our mother--and Sholto MacKim."

It is to be feared that the last part of the problem exceeded in interest all others in the
eyes of Maud Lindesay.

"It seems as if we never could again behold any one we loved or wished to see--here in this
horrible place," sighed Maud Lindesay. "If ever I get back to the dear land and see Solway
side, I will be a different girl."

"But, Maud," said the little maid, reproachfully, "you were always good and kind. It is not
well done of you to speak against yourself in that fashion."

Maud Lindesay shook her pretty head mournfully.

"Ah, Margaret, you will know some day," she said. "I have been wicked,--not in things one has
to confess to Father Gawain, but,--well, in making people like me, and give me things, and
come to see me, and then afterwards flouting them for it and sending them away."

It was not a lucid description, but it sufficed.

"Ah, but," said Margaret Douglas, "I think not these things to be wicked. I hope that some
day I shall do just the same, though, of course, I shall not be as beautiful as you, Maudie;
no, never! I asked Sholto MacKim if I would, and he said, 'Of course not!' in a deep voice.
It was not pretty of him, was it, Maud?"

"I think it was very prettily said of him," answered Maud Lindesay, with the first flicker
of a smile on her face. Her conscience was quite at ease about Sholto. He was different. Whatever
pain she had caused him, she meant to make up to him with usury thereto. The others she had
exercised no more for her own amusement than for their own souls' good.

"My brother William must indeed be very angry with us, that he hath never sent to find us and
bring us home," went on the little girl. "It is three months since we met that horrible old
woman in the woods above Thrieve Island, and believed her when she told us that the Earl had
instant need of us--and that Sholto MacKim was with him."

"None saw us taken away. Margaret," said the elder, "and perhaps, who knows, they may never
have found any of the pieces of flower garlands I threw down before they put us in the boats
from the beach of Cassencary."

But the eyes of the little Maid of Galloway were now fixed upon something in the green courtyard
below.

"Maud, Maud, come hither quickly!" she whispered; "if yonder be not Laurence MacKim talking
to the singing lads and dressed like them--why, then, I do not know Laurie MacKim!"

Maud came quickly now. Her face and neck blushed suddenly crimson with the springing of hope
in her heart.

She looked down, and there, far below them indeed, but yet distinct enough, they saw Laurence
daring Blaise Renouf to single combat and vaunting his Irish prowess, as we have already seen
him do. Maud Lindesay caught her companion's hand as she looked.

"They have found us," she whispered; "at least, they are seeking for us. If Laurence is here,
I warrant Sholto cannot be very far away. Oh, Margaret, am I looking very ill? Will he think
I am as--(she paused for a word)--as comely as he thought me before in Scotland? Or have I
grown old and ugly with being shut up so long?"

But the Maid of Galloway heard her not. She was pondering on the meaning of Laurence's presence
in the Castle of Machecoul.

"Perhaps William hath sent Laurence to spy us out, and is even now coming from his French duchy
with an army. He is a far greater man than the marshal, and will make him give us up as soon
as he finds out where we are. Shall I call down to Laurie to let him know that we are here?"

Maud put her hand hastily over her companion's mouth.

"Hush!" she said, "we must not appear to know him, or they will surely kill him--and perhaps
the others, too. If Laurence is here, I wot well that help is not far away. Let us be patient
and abide. Come back from the wall and sit by me as if nothing, had happened."

But all the same she kept her own place in a spot where she could command the pleasaunce below,
and looked longingly yet fearfully to see Sholto follow his brother across the green sward.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sweet and fair is the air of the evening," purred behind them a low voice--that of the woman
who was called La Meffraye. "It brings the colour to the cheeks of the young. But I am old
and wise, and I would advise that two maids so fair should not look down on the sports of the
youths, lest they hear and see more than is fitting for such innocent eyes."

The girls turned away without looking at their custodian, who stood leaning upon her little
hand crutch and smiling upon them her terrible soft smile.

"Ah," she said, "proud, are you? 'Tis an ill place to bring pride to, this Castle of Machecoul.
You will not deign to speak a word to a poor old woman now. But the day is not far distant
when I shall have my pretty spitfire clinging about these old trembling knees, and beseeching
me whom you despise, as a woman either to save you or kill you--you will not care which. As
a woman! Ha! ha! How long is it since La Meffraye was a woman? Was she ever rocked in a cradle?
Did she play about any cottage door and fashion daisy chains, as I have seen you do, my pretties,
long ere you came to Machecoul or even heard of the Sieur de Retz? Hath La Meffraye ever lain
in any man's bosom--save as the tigress crouches upon her prey?"

She paused and smiled still more bitterly and malevolently than before upon the two maidens.

"Did you chance to be awake yester-even?" she went on. "Aye, I know well that you were awake.
La Meffraye saw right carefully to that. And you heard the crying that rang out of yonder high
window, from which the light streamed all through the night. Wait, wait, my pretties, till
it is your turn to be sent for up thither, when the shining knife is sharpened and the red
fire kindled. You will not despise La Meffraye when that day comes. Escaped their
arms as if repelled energy rape.

Ulysses watched a new woman, and whiter, his face almost green, bent nose by anger and a gleam of madness
in his eyes.

All that kept it in the back of his mind emerged in spurts, expelled by a husky voice full of
tears.

- No, no! ... live together because they are my husband and God commands
so, but you no longer I want: I can not love ... The bad I've done!

... Whether you loved me! ... For more you look in your travels and your evil adventures,
you will not find a woman who loves you as I wanted to yours.

His past modest and submissive affection, loyalty discreet and tolerant, came out of his mouth
as an endless complaint.

- I followed you here on your travels.

Around know your forgetfulness, your infidelity. They told me all the papers found in your pockets,
lost photographs from your books, references from your comrades,
your smiles of pride, with smug returning many times, a set of customs
and care of yourself you did not have to outta here ... Also guessed
your touch daring the hidden presence of other women living far away,
across the world.

He stopped his speech stirred a few moments, letting it extinguished the flame of remembrance
shameless that he had flushed his pallor.

- All I despised - continued -. I know the men of the sea: I am the daughter of ocean. Many Sometimes
I saw my mother crying, and I felt sorry for its simplicity. We must not mourn for what do men
in distant lands. It is always painful for a woman who loves her husband, but not consequences,
and should be spared ... But now ... Now! ...

The wife was angry when evoking the recent infidelity ... They were
no longer rivals quahogs of major ports and the travelers who can
only take a few days of love, as charity who throws without stopping
the pass.

Now he was in love with the youngster's enthusiasm an elegant and beautiful lady, a foreigner
who made him forget his business, leaving your boat and stay away, as if his family renounced
forever ... And poor Stephen forgotten orphan of his father, was searching for him with the
impetuosity adventurous inherited of their ancestors, and death,
a horrible death, he was met on his way.

Something more than the pain of the wife outraged cries rang in the Ribbon. It was the rivalry
Naples with that woman she believed a lady with all the amenities of wealth and high birth, the
envy of their superior weapons of seduction rabies by his own modesty
and humility of a woman home.

- I was resolved to know nothing -
went on to say -.

He had one consolation: my son. What I care what thou hast done? ... Were away and my son was at
my side ... And not see more!

... My destiny is to live forever alone! You know I can not be a mother again; I'm sick and can
not give me another child ... And you, you! who has taken away the only I had ...

His imagination produced the most improbable inferences to explain
this loss to itself unfair.

- God wants to punish you for your bad
life, and why he killed Stephen and kill me slowly to me ... When
I wanted to throw his death from the balcony.

Still alive because I'm Christian but what life awaits me! What a life for you if you are
truly a father! ... Think your child does not exist if you had stayed
in Naples.

Ferragut was pitiful. He lowered his head, not the strength to repeat the disordered and lying protests
that had taken the first words of his wife.

"If she knew the whole truth!"

He repeated in his mind the voice of remorse.

I thought with horror of what he might say tape to know the extent
of his sin.

Fortunately, knew that it was he who had helped with their help to the murderers of his son ...
And the conviction that never come to know him was to admit his words with a quiet humility:
the humility of one hears criminal charged with a crime by a judge who ignores other attacks
even greater.

Tape finished speaking to a discouraged and gloomy tone. I could not more: his anger subsided, consumed
by her own vehemence.

The sobs cut the words. I would not see her husband the same man as before: the child's body
lay between the two.

- I can never love ... What have you done, Ulysses? What have you done that you have horror?
... When I'm alone, I cry, my sadness is immense, but I admit my
misfortune with resignation as a distant thing that was inevitable
... So I hear your footsteps and see you go, raises truth.

I think my son has died for you, still live if it had not gone in search yours to remind you that
you were his father and that I owed to us ... And when I think that, you hate, hate you! ... You
killed my son! My only consolation is to think that if you are aware, suffer even more than
me.

Ferragut came out of this horrible scene with the conviction that he must flee. That house
and was not his. Nor was his wife. The memory of the dead filled it all, stood between him and
Film, pushing him, throwing him back into the sea.

His ship was the only refuge for the rest of his life, and should benefit from it as the greatest
criminals of past centuries took refuge in the haven of the monasteries.

Did someone need to download their anger, to find an official to whom
to attribute their misfortunes.

Tape had been revealed as a completely new. Had never suspect much energy of character, passionate
vehemence in this obedient young woman and sweet. Should have a counselor who took advantage of
his complaints to speak ill of her husband.

And he looked at Don Pedro the professor, because he kept a certain
prejudice against him asleep from their days of their courtship.

In addition, it offended him at home with an air noble character, whose virtues served as contrast
to the sins and omissions of the owner home.

Ferragut had the same character all the great runners of affairs: liberal housing and carefree
person; punctilious and suspicious in itself.

- That old geezer - he said - is in love with tape. It's a platonic love, with him not There is
nothing to fear, but I do all the damage that can ... I shall say
a few words.

Don Pedro, who continued their daily visits to console the mother, speaking of the poor Stephen
as if he had been devoting his son and servile smiles to the captain,
found himself tackled by it one afternoon on the staircase landing.

The ocean suddenly aged speaking, emphasizing its physical traits
with a strong ugliness.

It seemed at the time his uncle, the Triton.

Made a menacing voice memory of a well-known classical passage teacher. Namesake the old Odysseus,
returning to his palace, was found surrounded by suitors to Penelope, and had them hanging
from a spike by the most virile and painful.

- Did not you, professor?

... Here I do not see more than one suitor, but swears Ulises hang
it on the same side if he returns to find him at home.

Pedro fled.

Deemed interesting to the rugged heroes of the Odyssey, but in verse and paper. In reality seemed dangerous
brutes.

He wrote a letter to Tape which suspended its visits tell her husband to return to the sea.

This abuse increased the alienation of the wife.

Represented an affront to her. After to make him lose his son, Ulysses scare your only friend.

Captain
felt the need to go. To continue in that hostile environment that exacerbated his remorse, pile on error
on error. Only action he could to forget.

One day Toni said that within hours they were about to leave. Had offered his services to allied navies
to victual the fleet besieging the Dardanelles.

The Mare Nostrum transported food, weapons, ammunition, airplanes.

Toni tries to raise an objection. It was easy to find travel safer
and equally fruitful; could go to America ...

- And my revenge? -
Ferragut interrupted -.

The rest of my life I committed to doing everything that is bad to the murderers of my son.
The allies need ships, I give them mine and myself.

Knowing the concerns of his second, added:

- In addition, they pay well.

These trips are very rewarding ... I get what I ask.

For the first time in his life on board the Mare Nostrum pilot was a gesture of contempt for
the cost of freight.

- I forgot - Ulysses continued, smiling in spite of his sadness -.

This trip flatters your ideal ... Let us work for the Republic.

Went to England, taking its cargo leaving for the Dardanelles. Ferragut wanted to sail alone,
without the protection of the destroyers escorting the ships assembled in convoy.

He knew the Mediterranean. In addition, he was a neutral country and the Spanish flag flying
at the stern of the vessel.

This abuse was not remorse, nor seemed disloyal.

German privateers to prey approaching neutral flaunting flags to
deceive and not flee.

The submarines were hidden behind peaceful sailing, to emerge suddenly beside the fumes without
defense. The procedures felons of old pirates had been raised by the Germanic fleet.

The submarine was not afraid. Relied on the speed of Mare Nostrum and his star.

- And if we leave one to step - said to his mate - that we go to the bow.

I wanted it to be so, to launch the ship on the sub at full speed, spurs.

Mediterranean was no longer the same sea of ​​months before, whose secrets he knew the captain
and I could not live there safely, and in the home of a friend.

Only remained in his cabin the time to sleep. He and Toni spent long hours on the bridge, speaking
without looking, with eyes turned to the sea, watching the moving
surface blue.

All crew members, even those who were within hours of rest, felt the need monitor the same way.

By day, the slightest alarm discovery sent the bow to stern. All waste sea, regardless weeks
before he ran beside the ship's sides, caused now cries for attention
and made many arms extended to point.

The pieces of wood, the empty cans of preserved under the sun shone, bunches of seaweed, a gull
with leaving folded wings rocked by a wave, suggested the submarine
periscope poking at the water.

At night, surveillance was even greater. The danger of the submersible had to add the a collision.
Warships and transports sailed the Halls allies or completely to
dark.

Those who did sentry at the bridge no longer looked at the sea surface and pale phosphorescence.
Probed the horizon, fearing that arose before the way forward black, huge and fast, spewed from
the dark.

If you ever slowed the captain's cabin, came immediately in his memory remember fatal.

- Esteban! ... My son ...

And his eyes filled with tears.

Remorse and anger made him imagine tremendous vengeance. He was convinced that their implementation
was impossible, but served his momentary consolation character of southern predisposed to the
bloodiest claims.

One day, posting the papers left in a suitcase, found the picture of Freya. Seeing bold smile,
his quiet eyes fixed on him, he felt that was made inside a shameful cleavage. He admired the
beauty of this occurrence: a shiver shook her back; emerged in memory of past pleasures ... And
at the same time, there was another Ferragut within it twitched with the Levantine homicidal
violence, which only supports the death revenge.

She was to blame for everything. "Ah ... this! "

He tore the picture, but then was picking up the pieces, and eventually save between papers.

His
anger changed objective. Freya, in fact, was not the main culprit of the death Stephen. He thought
of the other, the false diplomatic, at the Von Kramer had perhaps directed the torpedo that
broke his son ... Would not the devil that you encounter any time?

... What a pleasure to be alone two, face to face!

At last he fled from the solitude of the cabin, which tormented him with the wishes of impotent
revenge. With Toni, atop the ship, he felt better ... And with a humble kindness never met
his second, the goodness of pain and misfortune, talked and talked, enjoying the care of their
single listener, as if telling stories to a circle of wonderful children.

In the Strait of Gibraltar he described the great power supply sent
by the Ocean the Mediterranean, and in that time helped to push the
propeller on the ship.

Without this Atlantic current, the mare nostrum, which lost a lot of atmospheric evaporative
more water than it contributed rains and rivers would dry in a few centuries. Was calculated
I could disappear in four hundred sixty years, leaving traces of their existence as a salt
layer of fifty-two feet thick.

Born in their big breasts and numerous deep freshwater springs on the coast of Asia Minor, Morea,
Dalmatia and southern Italy, received also a considerable contribution Black Sea, because it, unlike
the Mediterranean, with rainfall monopolized and drag rivers of water than lost by evaporation, sent
through the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles in the form of surface
current.

But these inflows, although they were large, lost its importance compared with the renovation of
the ocean current.

Atlantic waters entering the Mediterranean so powerfully, they could not stop course or contrary
winds or the movement of reflux. Sailing ships had to wait sometimes months at a strong wind
that helps them overcome the impetuous mouth Strait.

- That I know very well - said Toni -.

Once, going to Cuba, were in sight of Gibraltar more than fifty days, advancing and losing the
way, until a favorable wind made us overcome the current and out into the great sea.

- The current that - added Ferragut - was one of the causes that precipitated
the decline of the Mediterranean sea in the sixteenth century.

We had to go to the Indies newly discovered and the Catalan sea or the Genoese remained here in
the Straits for weeks struggling with air and water to the contrary, while Galicia, the Basque, French
and English, who had left while its ports were already close to America ... Fortunately, Steam
navigation has us all equal.

Toni silently admired his captain. What I had learned in books that filled his cabin! ...

It was in the Mediterranean where the men had committed first to the waves. The civilization from
India, but Asian people could not make the learning of sailors in a sea where the coast is very
distant from each other and monsoons Indian Ocean blowing six straight
months in one direction and six months in another.

Only to reach the Mediterranean, in their migrations by land, the white man had wanted to be
a sailor. This sea, which compared to others is just a lake dotted with islands, was offered as
a school. Any wind leaving its sails, was sure of arriving at a hospital bank. The sweet breezes
and irregular rotated with the sun certain times of the year. The hurricane crossed the river, but
never fixed. There were no tides. Its ports and steps were not dry, its coasts and islands were
often to so close, who were among them, their land, beloved of heaven, received the sweetest
eyes from the sun.

Ferragut evoked the memory of men who had crossed the sea for centuries as far that history did not
mention them. As only traces of their existence were the nuraghs talayots Sardinia and the Balearic
Islands, giant tables made with blocks, barbarous altars huge boulders, reminiscent of the menhirs
and dolmens Celts the coast of Brittany. These people had gone dark, from island to island, from
the bottom Mediterranean to the Straits, which is its door.

The captain imagined their boats made of tree trunks just trimmed,
moved to paddle, or rather thrust of a shovel, no other help than
a rudimentary sail only ex-tended to blow from astern.

The first Europeans Navy was equal to that of the wild islands of Oceania, who are still currently
in its fleet of logs of islands in the archipelago.

So they had dared to break away from the coast, losing sight of land, venturing into the wilderness
blue, advised of the existence of the humps steamy islands of mountains
marked on the horizon at sunset.

Each advance in the Mediterranean sea this stammering had shown greater audacity and waste of
energy that the discovery of America or the first trip around the world ... These early sailors
threw themselves not to the sea ​​adventures: they were people en masse, taking with them
families and animals. Tribes, Once installed on an island, let loose fragments of his own
life, who came to colonize, through the waves, other land nearby.

Ulysses and his second major disasters thought ignored by history: the storm surprised to exodus
navigator, whole fleets of rude rafts swallowed by the abyss within
minutes, families dying clutching their pets when they were going
to try a new breakthrough in its embryonic civilization.

To get an idea of ​​what were their small boats, fleets recalled Ferragut of the Homeric poems, created
many centuries later.

Winds instilled a religious terror sea ​​to the warriors gathered to fall over Troy. Their ships remained
chained a year in Aulis ports for fear of hostility in the air, and appease Mediterranean to the gods
sacrificed the life of a virgin.

Everything was danger and mystery in the realm of the waves.

The roaring chasms, crags barked Sirens were singing the pitfalls that were attracted to his music
to craft to disintegrate. There was no particular god island, no monster, no mage Cyclops or
warping of artifice. The terror was the first god of the seas. The man, before he tamed the elements,
tribute them more superstitious fears.
A material factor was strongly influenced by changes in the Mediterranean
life. The Sandy, moved to the whim of the currents, ruined the village
or climbed to the top an unexpected prosperity. Famous cities in history
were not present more than streets of debris at the foot of a hill
crowned by the remains of a castle Phoenician, Roman, Byzantine, Saracen,
or the time of the Crusades. In other centuries had been known ports:
before its walls naval battles were fought. Now, from the ruined Acropolis
barely reached to see the Mediterranean as a faint blue band at the
end of the low, marshy plain. Sand had moved the old sea port with
a distance of miles ... By contrast, cities went inland to be places
of shipment, the continued drilling of the waves they would find.

The
wickedness of man had imitated the work of destruction of nature.
When a republic expired maritime republic to another rival, the first
thing I thought was obstructing port sand and stones, in perverting
the course of the water so that it became earthly city, losing their
fleets and their traffic. The Genoese, winners of Pisa, blinded by
its port with the sands of Arno, and the city of the first conquerors
Mallorca, sailors to the Holy Land, the Knights of St. Stephen, guardians
of the Mediterranean, to be passed Pisa's dead, people who know only
by hearsay sea.

- Sand - ended by saying Ferragut - has changed in
the Mediterranean trade routes and historical destinations.

Of the
acts had been to stage the mare nostrum, most famous for Captain was
the unprecedented issuance of almogávares to east, the saga of Roger
de Flor, which he known since childhood by stories of the poet Labarta,
Triton and the poor secretary of people who dreamed at all hours with
the bygone grandeur of the sea in Catalonia.

Everyone talked in months
of the blockade of the Dardanelles. Vessels plying the Mediterranean,
as merchants the war, worked for the major operation military that
was unfolding before Gallipoli. The name of the long dead sea which
separates Europe from Asia was in every mouth. The eyes of humans
converged at this point, as in the remote ages of the Trojan War.

-
We too have been there - Ferragut said proudly -. The Dardanelles
have been for several years in Catalonia and Aragon. Gallipoli was
a city ruled by our Valencian Ramon Muntaner.

And began the story
of the conquest of the East almogávares, romantic odyssey, barbarous
and bloody through the ancient Asian provinces of the Roman Empire,
which only came to end with the founding of a Spanish duchy of Athens
and Neopatras in the city of Pericles and Minerva.

The chronicles
of the Middle Ages East, the Byzantine romances, stories paladinescos
the Arabs had no more sudden and dramatic adventure that the issuance
of these Argonauts from the valleys of the Pyrenees, the banks of
the Ebro and the Moorish gardens of Valencia. For many years prevailed
in Bithynia, the Troy, Ionia, Thrace, Macedonia, Thessaly and Attica.

Grandparents
glory of the conquerors of America and the Spanish infantry of thirds,
these almogávares were tireless walkers, dressed and armed to the
light. They used simple wool bibs when all the warriors were covered
with iron, opposed the javelin throwing to the heavy spear, leaping
like cats on the armored knight to stab his broad sword through the
interstices of the reinforcement. Better than any he knows how to stir the people, and he will send
with you trusty men to cause the country to rise in rebellion. Then they will overturn all
the castles of de Retz, and the hidden things shall come to light. This do, and for this time
depart from Machecoul, and entrust me (as indeed you must) with the honour and lives of those
you love. I will keep them with mine own until destruction pass upon him who is outcast from
God, and whom now his own fiend from hell hath deserted."

Then, having sworn to do her bidding, the three Scots conducted the Lady Sybilla with honour
and observance to her white palfrey, and like a spirit she vanished into the sea mists which
had sifted up from the west, going back to the drear Castle of Machecoul, but bearing with
her the burden of her revenge.

CHAPTER LIV

THE CROSS UNDER THE APRON

The face of Gilles de Laval, Lord of Retz, had shone all day with an unholy lustre like that
of iron in which the red heat yet struggles with the black. In the Castle of Machecoul his
familiars went about, wearing expressions upon their countenances in which disgust and expectation
were mingled with an overwhelming fear of the terrible baron.

The usual signs of approaching high saturnalia at Machecoul had not been wanting.

Early in the morning La Meffraye had been seen hovering like an unclean bird of prey about
the playing grounds of the village children at Saint Benoit on the edges of the forest. At
nine the frightened villagers heard the howl of a day-hunting wolf, and one Louis Verger, a
woodman who was cutting bark for the tanneries in the valley, saw a huge grey wolf rush out
and seize his little son, Jean, a boy of five years old, who came bringing his father's breakfast.
With a great cry he hurried back to alarm the village, but when men gathered with scythes and
rude weapons of the chase, the beast's track was lost in the depth of the forest.

Little Jean Verger of Saint Benoit was never seen again, unless it were he who, half hidden
under the long black cloak of La Meffraye, was brought at noon by the private postern of the
baron into the Castle of Machecoul.

So the men of Saint Benoit went not back to their work, but abode together all that day, sullen
anger burning in their hearts. And one calling himself the servant of the Bishop of Nantes
went about among them, and his words were as knives, sharp and bitter beyond belief. And ever
as he spoke the men turned them about till they faced Machecoul. Their lips moved like those
of a Moslemite who says his prayers towards Mecca. And the words they uttered were indeed prayers
of solemnest import.

With his usual devotion at such seasons, Gilles de Retz had attended service thrice that day
in his Chapel of the Holy Innocents. His behaviour had been marked by intense devoutness. An
excessive tenderness of conscience had characterised his confessions to Père Blouyn, his spiritual
director-in-ordinary. He confessed as his most flagrant sin that his thoughts were overmuch
set on the vanities of the world, and that he had even sometimes been tempted of the devil
to question the right of Holy Church herself to settle all questions according to the will
of her priests and prelates.

Whereupon Père Blouyn, with suave correctness of judgment, had pointed out wherein his master
erred; but also cautioned him against that undue tenderness of conscience natural to one with
his exalted position and high views of duty and life. Finally the marshal had received absolution.

In the late afternoon the Lord of Retz commanded the fire to be laid ready for lighting in
his chamber aloft in the keep of Machecoul, and set himself down to listen to the singing of
the choir, which, under the guidance of Precentor Renouf, rehearsed for him the sweetest hymns
recently written for the choir of the Holy Father at Rome. For there the marshal's choir-master
had been trained, and with its leader he still kept up a correspondence upon kindred interests.

Gilles de Retz, as he sat under the late blooming roses in the afternoon sunshine of the autumn
of western France, appeared to the casual eye one of the most noble seigneurs and the most
enlightened in the world. He affected a costume already semiecclesiastic as a token of his
ultimate intention to enter holy orders. It seemed indeed as if the great soldier who had ridden
into Orleans with Dunois and the Maid had begun to lay aside his earthly glories and seek the
heavenly.

There, upon a chair set within the cloisters, in a place which the sunshine touched most lovingly
and where it lingered longest, he sat, nodding his head to the sound of the sweet singing,
and bowing low at each mention of the name of Jesus (as the custom is)--a still, meditative,
almost saintly man. Upon the lap of his furred robe (for, after all, it was a sunshine with
a certain shrewd wintriness in it) lay an illuminated copy of the Holy Gospels; and sometimes
as he listened to the choir-boys singing, he glanced therein, and read of the little children
to whom belongs the kingdom. Upon occasion he lifted the book also, and looked with pleasure
at the pictured cherubs who cheered the way of the Master Jerusalemwards with strewn palm leaves
and shouted hosannas.

And ever sweeter and sweeter fell the music upon his ear, till suddenly, like the silence after
a thunderclap, the organ ceased to roll, the choir was silent, and out of the quiet rose a
single voice--that of Laurence the Scot singing in a tenor of infinite sweetness the words
of blessing:

    "Suffer the little children to come unto Me,
      And forbid them not;
      For of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

And as the boy's voice welled out, clear and thrilling as the song of an upward pulsing lark,
the tears ran down the face of Gilles de Retz.

God knows why. Perhaps it was some glint of his own innocent childhood--some half-dimmed memory
of his happily dead mother. Perhaps--but enough. Gilles de Laval de Retz went up the turret
stair to find Poitou and Gilles de Sillé on guard on either side the portals which closed his
chamber.

"Is all ready?" he asked, though the tears were scarcely dry on his cheeks.

They bowed before him to the ground.

"All is ready, lord and master," they said as with one voice.

"And Prelati?"

"He is in waiting."

"And La Meffraye," he went on, "has she arrived?"

"La Meffraye has arrived," they said; "all goes fortunately."

"Good!" said Gilles de Retz, and shedding his furred monkish cloak carelessly from off his
shoulders, he went within.

Poitou and Gilles de Sillé both reached to catch the mantle ere it fell. As they did so their
hands met and touched. And at the meeting of each other's flesh they started and drew apart.
Their eyes encountered furtively and were instantly withdrawn. Then, having hung up the cloak,
with pallid countenances and lips white and tremulous, they slowly followed the marshal within.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sybilla de Thouars, as you are in my power, so I bid you work my will!"

It was the deep, stern voice of the Marshal de Retz which spoke. The Lady Sybilla lay back
in a great chair with her eyes closed, breathing slowly and gently through her parted lips.
Messire Gilles stood before her with his hands joined palm to palm and his white fingertips
almost touching the girl's brow.

"Work my will and tell me what you see!"

Her hands were clasped under a light silken apron which she wore descending from her neck and
caught in a loose loop behind her gown. The fingers were firmly netted one over the other and
clutched between them was a golden crucifix.

The girl was praying, as one prays who dares not speak.

"O God, who didst hang on this cross--keep now my soul. Condemn it afterwards, but help me
to keep it this night. Deliver me--oh, deliver from the power of this man. Help me to lie.
By Thy Son's blood, help me to lie well this night."

"Where are the three men from the land of the Scots? Tell me what you see. Tell me all," the
marshal commanded, still standing before her in the same posture.

Then the voice of the Lady Sybilla began to speak, low and even, and with that strange halt
at the end of the sentences. The Lord of Retz nodded, well pleased when he heard the sound.
It was the voice of the seeress. Oftentimes he had heard it before, and it had never deceived him.

"I see a boat on a stormy sea," she said; "there are three men in it. One is great of stature
and very strong. The others are young men. They are trying to furl the sail. A gust strikes
them. The boat heels and goes over. I see them struggling in the pit of waters. There are cliffs
white and crumbling above them. They are calling for help as they cling to the boat. Now there
is but one of them left. I see him trying to climb up the slippery rocks. He falls back each
time. He is weary with much buffeting. The waves break about him and suck him under. Now I
do not see the men any more, but I can hear the broken mast of the boat knocking hollow and
dull against the rocks. Some few shreds of the sail are wrapped about it. But the three men
are gone."

She ceased suddenly. Her lips stopped their curiously detached utterance.

But under her breath and deep in her soul Sybilla de Thouars was still praying as before. And
this which follows was her prayer:

"O God, his devil is surely departed from him. I thank thee, God of truth, for helping me to lie."

"It is well," said Gilles de Retz, standing erect with a satisfied air. "All is well. The three
Scots who sought my life are gone to their destruction. Now, Sybilla de Thouars, I bid you
look upon John, Duke of Brittany. Tell me what he does and says."

The level, impassive, detached voice began again. The hands clasped the cross of gold more
closely under the silk apron.

"I see a room done about with silver scallop shells and white-painted ermines. I see a fair,
cunning-faced, soft man. Behind him stands one tall, spare, haggard--"

"Pierre de l'Hopital, President of Brittany--one that hates me," said de Retz, grimly between
his teeth. "I will meet my fingers about his dog's throat yet. What of him?"

The Lady Sybilla, without a quiver of her shut eyelids took up the cue.

"He hath his finger on a parchment. He strives to point out something to the fair-haired man,
but that other shakes his head and will not agree--"

The marshal suddenly grew intent, and even excited.

"Look closer, Sybilla--look closer. Can you not read that which is written on the parchment?
I bid you, by all my power, to read it."

Then the countenance of the Lady Sybilla was altered. Striving and blank failure were alternately
expressed upon it.

"I cannot! Oh, I cannot!" she cried.

"By my power, I bid you. By that which I will make you suffer if you fail me, I command you!"
cried Gilles de Retz, bending himself towards her and pressing his fingers against her brow
so that the points dented her skin. She has loved me, she loves me still. How
am I going to regret? Who, for fear of losing it, he regrets having done? "

Such was the letter from Don Braulio, which closed carefully and certified
to not be lost, before confiding to the mail.

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved
and serene, and available resigned to fulfill the promise to bring
that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen Retiro.

VII

Dramatic poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions
that they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters may issue. So dramatic poets
poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy annoying preachers,
or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond to posterity,
and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions and dreams
that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his imagination, heated and vehement. Thus,
for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused
of corrupting.

We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that he used to seize
the dictatorship, often repeated some verses of tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels,
not drama.

In novel explanations fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered. The author may take
the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters, mitigating or followed
by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak
of Don Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions
certainly and that, believed by the naive reader might pervert one
of the ugliest perversions known: the genius considered understood
exceed unjustly neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest
and intelligent and not discovered his genius or semigenio fumes but
as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain
bitterness and suspicion, tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet
how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual
uniquely, but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In
sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous not know
who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories
transcended into practice, and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an
employee modest I knew all that mattered was to know and care as do
to earn the salary conscience and not defraud the public purse or
take the hospice offices for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but
to narrate. I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society
is coming only require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other
grades are entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except
in exceptional cases, still will have to concede that the understanding
is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be achieved,
the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody
but reverence and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than
20 degrees of understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical,
but when plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that
is in use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible
and hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and
makes many people believe that have that understanding excessive
and unnecessary, and may not have but a superlative dose fatuity? Laurence
MacKim played X's and O's upon a board with Blaise Renouf, the precentor's son, and at some
hitch in the game he incontinently clouted the Frenchman upon the ear. Whereupon ensued trouble
and the spilling of much ink.

Henriet, perfectly satisfied, took up the heavy moulds and made his way to his lord's chamber,
where many things were used for purposes other than those for which they had been intended.

Upon the back of his departure came in the Precentor Renouf, who laid his baton conjointly
and freely about the ears of his son and those of Laurence MacKim.

"Get to your beds both of you, and that supperless, for uproar and conduct ill becoming two
youths who worship God all day in his sanctuary, and are maintained at grievous expense by
our most devout and worthy lord, Messire Gilles of Laval and Retz, Seigneur and Lord!"

Laurence, who had of set purpose provoked the quarrel, was slinking away, when the "Psalta"
(as the choir-master is called in lower Brittany) ordered them to sleep in separate rooms for
the better keeping of the peace.

"And do you, Master Laurence, perform your vigil of the night upon the pavement of the chapel.
For you are the most rebellious and troublesome of all--indeed, past bearing. Go! Not a word,
sirrah!"

So, much rejoiced in heart that matters had thus fallen out, Laurence MacKim betook himself
to the Chapel of the Holy Innocents, and was duly locked in by the irate precentor.

For, upon various occasions, he had watched the Lord of Retz descend into the chapel by a private
staircase which opened out in an angle behind the altar. He had also seen Poitou, his confidential
body-servant, lock it after him with a small key of a yellow colour which he took from his
fork pocket.

Now Master Laurence, as may have already been observed, was (like most of the youthful unordained
clergy) little troubled, at least in minor matters, with scruples about such slight distinctions
as those which divide meum and tuum. He found no difficulty therefore in abstracting this key
when Poitou was engaged in attending his master from the chapel, in which service it was his
duty to pass the stalls with open lattice ends of carven work in which sat the elder choir-boys.
Having secured the key, Laurence hid it instantly beneath the leaden saint on his cap, refastening
the long pin which kept our Lady of Luz in her place through the fretwork of the little brazen key.

Presently he saw Poitou come back and look carefully here and there upon the floor, but after
a while, not finding anything, he went out again to search elsewhere.

The idea had come to Laurence that at the head of the stairway from the chapel was the prison
chamber of Maud Lindesay and her ward, the little Maid Margaret of Galloway.

He told himself at least that this was his main object, and doubtless he had the matter in
his mind. But a far stronger motive was his curiosity and the magic influence of the mysterious
and the unknown upon the heart of youth.

More than to deliver Margaret of Galloway, Laurence longed to look again upon the iron altar
and to know the truth concerning the strange sacrifices which were consummated there. And he
yearned to see again that rough-eared image graven after the fashion of a man.

And the reason was not far to seek.

For if even the worship of the High God, according to the practice of the most enlightened
nations, grounds itself upon blood and sacrifice, what wonder if, in the worship of the lords
of Hell, the blood of the innocent is an oblation well pleasing and desirable.

Rooted and ineradicable is the desire in man's heart to know good and evil--but particularly
evil. And so now Laurence desired to see the sacrifice laid between the horns of the altar
and the image above lean over as if to gloat upon the sweet savour of its burning.

Long and carefully Laurence listened before he ventured forth. The Chapel of the Innocents
was dark and silent. Only a reflection of the red light which burned in the keep struck through
the clerestory upon the great cross which swung above the altar. This, being dispersed like
a halo about the sign of Christ's redemption, rendered the corner where was placed the door
into the secret stairway light enough to enable the youth to insert therein Poitou's key. The
wards were turned with well-accustomed smoothness.

Carefully shutting the door behind him so that if any one chanced to enter the chapel nothing
would be observed, Laurence set his feet upon the steps and began his adventure of supreme peril.

It was a narrow staircase, only wide enough indeed for one to ascend or descend at once. And
the heart of Laurence sank within him at the thought of meeting the dread Lord of Machecoul
face to face in its strait, black spirals.

He accomplished the ascent, however, without incident, and, passing through another low arch,
found himself at the end of the passage over against the door with the curious burned hieroglyphics
imprinted upon it. There was no light in the corridor, and Laurence eagerly set his hand to
the latch. It opened as before and admitted him at a touch.

The temple-like hall was silent and dim. Only an occasional thrill as if of an earthquake passed
across it, waving the heavy hangings and bringing a hot breath of some strange heady perfume
to the nostrils. Laurence, with a beating heart, ensconced himself in a hidden nook behind
the door. The niche was covered by a curtain and furnished with a grooved slab of marble placed
there for some purpose he could not fathom.

Yet it was by no means wholly dark. A light shone into the Chapel of Evil from the opposite
side, and through it he could discern shadows cast upon the floors and striding gigantic across
the roof, as unseen personages passed the light which streamed into the dusky temple.

In the gloomiest part of the background, hinted rather than seen, he could make out the vast
dark figure dominating the iron altar.

Then Laurence remembered that the chamber of the marshal lay on the other side--the room with
the immense fireplace which he had once entered and from which he had barely escaped with his life.

Little by little Laurence raised himself upon the grooved slab until, standing erect, he could
see some small part of the whitewashed, red-floored chamber he remembered so well--only a strip,
however, extending from the door through which he looked to the great fireplace whereon the
heaped wood had already been kindled.

At first all was confused. Laurence saw Henriet and Poitou going hastily here and there, as
servitors do who prepare for a great function. Then came a pause, heavy with doom. On the back
of this he heard or seemed to hear the frightened pleading of a child, the short, sharp commands
of a soldier's voice, a sound as of a blow stricken, and then again a whimpering hush. Laurence
leaned against the wall with his face in his hands. He dared not look within. Then he lifted
his head, and lo! in the gloom it seemed as if the huge image had turned towards him, and in
a pleased, confidential way were nodding approval of his presence.

He heard the voice of the Marshal de Retz again--this time kindly, and even affectionate. Some
one was not to be frightened. Some one was to take a draught from the goblet and fear nothing.
They would not hurt him. They had but played with him.

Again Henriet and Poitou passed and repassed, and once Gilles de Sillé flashed across the interspace
handing a broad-edged gleaming knife swiftly and surreptitiously to some one unseen.

Then came a short, sharp cry of agony, a gurgling moan, and black, blank, unutterable horror
shut down on Laurence's spirit.

He sank down on his face behind the door and covered his eyes and ears with his hands. So he
lay for a space without motion, almost without sense, upon the naked grooves of the marble
slab. When he came to himself, a dusky light was diffused through the chapel. As he looked
he saw La Meffraye come to the door and set her face within, like some bird of night, hideous
and foul. Then she returned and Gilles de Sillé and Clerk Henriet came into the chapel bearing
between them a great golden cup, filled (as it seemed by the care with which they carried it)
to the very brim with some precious liquid.

To them, all clad in a priest's robe of flame-coloured velvet, succeeded the Lord of Retz himself.
He held in his hand like a service-book the great manuscript written in red, which he had been
transcribing at Sybilla's entrance, and as he walked he chanted, with a strange intonation,
words that thrilled the very soul of the young man listening.

And yet, as Laurence looked forth from his hiding-place, it appeared that the black statue
nodded once more to him as one who would say, "Take note and remember what thou seest; for
one day thy testimony shall be needful."

These were the words he heard in the chanting monotone:

"O great and mighty Barran-Sathanas--my only lord and master, whom with all due observance
I do worship, look mercifully upon this the sacrifice of innocent blood; let it be grateful
to thee--to whom all evil is as the breath of life!

"Hear us, O Barran-Sathanas! Thou hast been deaf in past days, because we served thee not without
drawback or withholding, without sparing and without remorse. Because we hesitated to give
thee the best, the delicatest, the most pitiful. But now take this innocentest innocence. Behold
I, Gilles de Retz, make to thee the matchless sacrifice of the Red Milk thou lovest.

"The Red Milk I pour for thee. The Red Milk I bring thee. The Red Milk I drink to thee--that
thou mayest be pleased to restore vital energy and new youth to my veins, to make me strong
as a young man in his strength, and wiser than the wisdom of age. Hear me, O great master of
all the evil of the universe, thou equal and coadjutor of the Master of Good, hear and manifest
thy so mighty power. Hear me and answer, O Barran-Sathanas!"

Gilles de Retz took the cup from the hands of the servitors. He seemed so weak with his crying
that he could hardly hold it between his trembling palms.

He lifted his head and again cried aloud:

"See, I am weak, my Satan--see how I tremble. Strength is departed from me. Youth is dead.
Help thy faithful servant, aid him to lift up this precious oblation to thee!"

And as the great dusky image seemed to lean over him, with a hoarse cry Gilles de Retz raised
the cup and held it high above his head. As he did so a beam, sudden as lightning, fell upon
it, and with a quick, instinctive horror, Laurence saw that it was filled to the brim with
blood fresh and red.

The marshal's voice strengthened.

"It is coming! It is coming! Barran manifests himself! O great lord, to thee I drain this draught!"
cried Gilles de Retz. "The Red Milk, the precious milk of innocence, to thee I drink it!"

And he set the cup to his lips and drank deep and long.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It comes. It fills me. I am strong. O Barran, give me yet more strength. My limbs revive.
My pulse beats. I am young as when I rode with Dunois. Barran, thou art indeed mightier than
God. I will give thee yet more and more. I swear it. I have kept the best wine till the last--the
death vintage of a great house. The wine of beauty and brightness--I have kept it for thee.
Halt not to make me stronger! Help me--Barran, help--I fail--!"

His voice had risen higher and higher till it was well nigh a scream of agony. Strangely too,
in spite of the fictitious youth that glowed in his veins and coloured his cheek, it sounded
like a senile shriek.

But all suddenly, at the very height of his exaltation, the cup from which he had drunk slipped
from his hand and rolled upon the tesselated pavement of the temple, staining it in gouts and
vivid blotches of crimson.

"Hasten, ere I lose the power--I feel it checked. Poitou, De Sillé, Henriet, go bring hither
from the White Tower the Scottish maids. Run, dogs--or you die! Quick, Henriet! Good De Sillé,
quick! Fail not your master now! It ebbs, it weakens--and it was so near completion. Stay,
O Barran, till I finish the sacrifice, and here at thy feet offer up to thee the richest, and
the fairest, and the noblest! Bring hither the maidens! I tell you, bring them quickly!"

And the terrible Lord of Retz, exhausted with his own fury, cast himself at the feet of the
gigantic image, which, bending over him, seemed with the same grimace sardonically to mock
alike his exaltation and his downfall.

But Laurence heard no more. For sense and feeling had wholly departed from him, and he lay
as one dead behind the door of the temple of Barran-Sathanas, Lord of Evil, in the thrice-abhorrent
Castle of Machecoul.

CHAPTER LVI

THE SHADOW BEHIND THE THRONE

Within the grim walls of Black Angers Duke John of Brittany and reigning sovereign of western
France was holding his court. The city and fortress did not properly, of right and parchment
holding, appertain to him. But he had occupied it during the recent troubles with the English,
and his loving cousin and nominal suzerain Charles the Seventh of France had not yet been strong
enough to make him render it up again.

The Duke sat in the central tower of the fortress of Black Angers, that which looks between
the high flanking turrets of the mighty enceinte of walls. He wriggled discontentedly in his
chair and grumbled under his breath.

At his shoulder, tall, gaunt, angular, with lantern jaws and a mouth like a wolf trap, deep-set
eyes that flamed under bushy eyebrows, stood Pierre de l'Hopital, the true master of Brittany.

"I tell you I will go to the tennis-courts--the three Scots must wait audience till to-morrow.
What errand can they have with me--some rascals whom Charles will not pay now that his job
is done? They come to take service doubtless. A beggarly lot are all such out-land varlets,
but brave--yes, excellent soldiers are the Scots, so long as they are well fed, that is."

"Nay, my Lord Duke," said Pierre de l'Hopital, standing up tall and sombre, his long black
gown accentuating the peculiarities of his figure. "It were almost necessary to see these men
now and hear what they have to say. I myself have seen them and judge it to be so."

John of Brittany threw down the little sceptre, fashioned in imitation of that made for the
King of France, with which he had been toying. The action was that of a pettish child.

"Oh," he cried, "if you have decided, there remains nothing for me but to obey!"

"I thank your Excellency for your gracious readiness to grant the men an interview," said Pierre
de l'Hopital, having regard to the essential matter and disregarding the unessential manner.

Duke John sat glooming and kicking his feet to and fro on the raised dais, while behind his
chair, impassive as the Grand Inquisitor himself, Pierre de l'Hopital, President of Brittany,
lifted a hand to an unseen servitor; and in a few moments the three Scots were ushered into
the ducal presence.

The Lord James in virtue of his quality stood a little in front, not by his own will or desire,
but because Sholto and his father had so placed themselves that the young noble should have
his own rightful precedence. For as to these things all Scots are careful by nature.

Duke John continued to keep his eyes averted from the men who sought his presence. He teased
a little lop-eared spaniel, and nipped it till it yelped. But the President of Brittany never
took his eyes off the strangers, examining them with a bold, keen, remorseless glance, in which,
however, there was neither evil nor the tolerance of it. Not a man to make himself greatly
beloved, this Pierre de l'Hopital.

And little he cared whether or no. In Brittany men did his will. That was enough.

James Douglas was nettled at the inattention of the Duke. He was of that large and sanguine
nature which is at once easily touched by any discourtesy and very quick to resent it.

"My Lord of Brittany," he began in a loud clear voice, and in his usual immaculate French,
"I claim your attention for a little. I come to lay before you that which touches your kin
and kingdom."

Duke John continued to play with the lap-dog, and in addition he formed his mouth to whistle.
But he never whistled.

"His Grace of Brittany will now give you his undivided attention," said the President from
behind, without moving a muscle either of his body or of his face, save those necessary to
propel the words from his vocal cords.

The brow of Duke John flushed with anger, but he did not disobey. He raised his head and gazed
straight at the three men, fixing his eyes, however, with a studied discourtesy upon Sholto
instead of upon their natural leader and spokesman.

Behind his chair Pierre de l'Hopital let his deep inscrutable eye droop once upon his master,
and his spare and sinewy wrists twitched as he held his arms by his side. He seemed upon the
point of dealing ducal dignity a box on the ear both sound and improving.

"I am the Lord James of Douglas and Avondale," said the leader of the Scots with grave dignity,
"and I had three years ago the honour of breaking a lance with you in the tilt-yard of Poitiers,
when in that town your Grace met with the King of France and the Duke of Burgundy."

At this John of Brittany looked up quickly.

"I do not remember you," he said, "and I never forget faces. Even Pierre will grant me that."

"Your Grace may possibly remember, then, the dint in your shoulder that you got from the point
of a spear, caused by the breaking of the links of your shoulder-piece."

A light kindled in the Duke's eyes.

"What," he cried, "you are the young Scot who fought so well and kept his shield up day by
day over the door of a common sergeant's tent, having no pavilion of his own, till it was all
over dints like an alehouse tankard?"

"As were also the knights who dinted it," grimly commented Pierre de l'Hopital.

The Lord James of Avondale bowed.

"I am that knight," he said quietly and with gravity.

"But," cried the Duke, "I knew not then that you were of Douglas. That is a great name in Poitiers,
and had we known your race and quality we had not been so ready with our shield-rapping."

"At that time," said James Douglas, "I had not the right to add 'of Douglas' to my titles.
But during this year my father hath succeeded to the Earldom and estates."

"What--then is your father Duke of Touraine?" cried the Duke of Brittany, much astonished.

"Nay, my lord," said James Douglas, with some little bitterness. "The King of France hath caused
that to revert to himself by the success which attended a certain mission executed for him
in Scotland by his Chamberlain, the Marshal de Retz, concerning whom we have come from far
to speak with you."

"Ah, my cousin Gilles!" cried Duke John. "He is not a beauty to look at, but he is a brave
man, our Gilles. I heard he had gone to Scotland. I wonder if he contrived to make himself
as popular in your land as he has done in ours."

With a certain grave severity to which Pierre de l'Hopital nodded approval, the Lord James
replied: "At the instigation of the King of France and Louis the Dauphin he succeeded in murdering
my two cousins William and David of Douglas, and in carrying over hither with him to his own
country their only sister, the little Countess of Galloway--thus rooting out the greatest house
in Scotland to the hurt of the whole realm."

"But to your profit, my Lord James of Avondale," commented the hollow voice of Pierre de l'Hopital,
speaking over his master's head.

The face of James Douglas flushed quickly.

"No, messire," he answered with a swift heat. "Not to my profit--to my infinite loss. For I
loved my cousin. I honoured him, and for his sake would have fought to the death. For his sake
have I renounced my own father that begat me. And for his sake I stand here to ask for justice
to the little maiden, the last of his race, to whom by right belongs the fairest province of
his dominions. No, messire, you are wrong. In all this have I had no profit but only infinite
hurt."

Pierre de l'Hopital bowed low. There was a pleased look on his face that almost amounted to
a smile.

"I crave your pardon, my lord," he said; "that is well said indeed, and he is a gentleman who
speaks it."

"Aye, it is indeed well said, and he had you shrewdly on the hip that time, Pierre," cried
Duke John. "I wish he could teach me thus cleverly to answer you when you croak."

"If you had as good a cause, my lord," said the President of Brittany to the Duke, "it were
not difficult to answer me as sharply. But we are keeping these gentlemen from declaring the
purpose of their journey hither."

The Lord James waited for no further invitation.

"I come," he said boldly, holding a parchment in his hand, the same he had received from the
Lady Sybilla, "to denounce Gilles de Retz and to accuse him of many cruel and unrighteous acts
such as have never been done in any kingdom. I accuse him of the murder of over four hundred
children of all ages and both sexes in circumstances of unparalleled barbarity. I am ready
to lead you to the places where lie their bodies, some of them burned and their ashes cast
into the ditch, others charred and thrown into unused towers. I have here names, instances,
evidence enough to taint and condemn a hundred monsters such as Gilles de Retz."

"Ah, give me the paper," came the raucous voice of the President of Brittany, as he reached
a bony hand over his master's shoulder to seize it.

The Lord James advanced, and giving it to him said, "Messire, I would have you know that a
copy of this is already in the hands of a trusty person in each of the towns and villages which
are named here, and from which children have been led to cruel death by him whom I have accused,
Gilles de Retz, Marshal of France."

The President of Brittany nodded as he almost snatched the paper in his eagerness to peruse it.

"The point is cleverly taken," he said, "as justly indeed as if you knew my Lord of Brittany
as well as, for instance, I know him."

The Duke was obviously discomfited. He shuffled his feet more than ever on the dais and combed
his straggling fair beard with soft, white, tapering fingers.

"This is wild and wholly absurd," he said, without however looking at James Douglas; "our cousin
Gilles is in ill odour with the commonalty. He is a philosopher and makes smells with bottles.
But there is neither harm nor witchcraft in it. He is only trying to discover the elixir of
life. So the silly folk think him a wizard. I know him better. He is a brave soldier and my
good cousin. I will not have him molested."

"My lord speaks of kinship," grated the voice of Pierre de l'Hopital. "Here are the names of
four hundred fathers and mothers who have also a claim to be heard on that subject, and whose
voices, if I judge right, are being heard at this moment around the Castles of Machecoul, Tiffauges,
Champtocé, and Pouzages. I wot there is now a crowd of a thousand men pouring through the passages
of the Hotel de Suze in your Grace's own ducal city of Nantes. And if there goes a bruit abroad,
that your Highness is protecting this monster whom the people hate, and the evidences of whose
horrid cruelty are by this time in their hands--well, your Grace knows the Bretons as well
as I. They will make one end of Gilles de Retz and of his cousin John, Duke of Brittany."

"Think you so--think you so truly, Pierre?" cried the unhappy reigning prince; "I would not
screen him if this be true. But the King--what of the King? They say he hath promised him support
with arms and men for recovering to him and to Louis the Dauphin the Duchy of Touraine."

"And think you, my lord, that the Dauphin will keep his promise, if we show him good cause
why he should fare better by breaking it?" suggested Pierre de l'Hopital, with the grim irony
which had become habitual to him.

John of Brittany paused irresolute.

"Besides which," continued James Douglas, "I may add that this paper is already in the hands
of the Cardinal Bishop of Nantes, and if your Grace will not move in the matter, his Eminence
has promised to see justice done."

"The hireling--the popular mouther after favour! I know him," cried Duke John, angrily. "What
accursed demon sent you to him? In this, as in other matters, he will strive to oust me from
the hearts of the folk of Brittany. He will be the people's advocate and will gain great honour
from this trial, will he? We shall see. Ho! guards there! Turn out. Summon those that are asleep.
Let the full muster be called. I will lead you to Machecoul myself. And these gentlemen shall
march with us. But by Heaven and the bones of Saint Anne of Auray, if in one jot they shall
fail to substantiate against Gilles de Retz those things which they have testified, they shall
die by the rack, and by the cord, and by disembowelling, and by fire. So swear I, Duke John
of Brittany."

"It is good," said James Douglas. And "It is good," accorded also Malise and Sholto MacKim.

"But before any dies in Brittany, Gilles de Retz or another, I will judge the case," commented
Pierre de l'Hopital, President of Justice and Grand Councillor of the reigning sovereign.

CHAPTER LVII

THE TOWER OF DEATH

Throughout La Vendée and all the country of Retz had run a terrible rumour. "The Marshal de
Retz is the murderer of our children. He has a thousand bodies in the vaults of his castles.
The Duke of Brittany has given orders that they shall be searched. His soldiers are forsaking
him. The names of the dead have been written in black and white, and are in the hands of the
headmen of the villages. Hasten--it is the hour of vengeance! Let us overwhelm him! Rise up
and let us seek our lost ones, even if we find no more than their bones!"

And terrible as had been the gathering of the were-wolves in the dark forests around Machecoul
upon the night of the fight by the hollow tree, far more threatening and terrible was the uprising
of the angry commons.

In whole villages there was not a man left, and mothers too marched in that muster armed with
choppers and kitchen knives, wild eyed and angry hearted as lionesses robbed of their cubs.
From the deep glens and deeper woods of the country of Retz they poured. Accounts were, as if the ship was theirs. While it was being repaired he could
tolerate the conduct of Captain.

- The British paid - said Toni -.

But now will not pay, the ship is without a win, and we spend every day ... What do we spend?

Calculated
and cook it thoroughly support the cost of steam, frightened to reach the total. A day of immobility
represented more than the amount earned by two men in a month.

-
This can not go - Toni protested.

His outrage led him to the ground several times, looking for the captain. Afraid to talk, considering
a lack of discipline to interfere in the direction of the ship, and
invented the most absurd Ferragut pretexts to address.

He looked harbor antipathy goalkeeper, because he always replied that
the captain had out.

This individual must have air pimp great fault in the stillness of steam: it warned the heart.

Not
to go to blows with him and why not wait to see him covertly riese
hours in the hall, they bet on the street, watching the entrances
and exits da Ferragut.

The three times I got to talk to him got the same success.

The captain held much see him as if he were a ghost of the past that could communicate the joy
of exuberant happiness.

Listened to his mate, glad that everything went well on the ship. And when Toni, faltering
voice, he dared ask the date of departure, Odysseus hid his hesitation in a tone of caution.
I was waiting for a precious cargo.

The more we wait, more money going to win ... But his words were not convincing to Toni. Protests
remembered their captain, a fortnight before, the lack of good charge in Naples and his desire
to leave without delay.

Returning on board, the second sought to Caragol, commenting both
the changes in their boss.

Toni had been done another man, with beard, wearing the best your
luggage, betraying in arranging his person a thorough dedication,
a strong will please.

The rough pilot was believed to perceive the true talk like women's
perfume Visitors to the blonde.

This news was most unlikely to Caragol.

- Captain Ferragut scented!

... Captain smelling of ... bug!

And raised arms, while their short-sighted eyes looking cane bottles and flasks oil to make them
witnesses of his indignation.

The two men were consistent in assessing the cause of his sadness. She was to blame all, she
who was delighted to have the ship in this port, who knows how long, with irresistible power of
a witch.

- Ah, the females! ... The devil is like a lap dog behind her skirts ... Are rot of our lives.

And the angry chef chastity against women still throwing insults and
curses equal to those of the early Fathers of the Church.

One morning the crew who cleaned the deck posing a cry from the bow
to the stern.

"Captain!" They saw a boat approaching, and the word spread and cameras corridors, giving
new force to the arms, encouraging the sleepy faces. The second came Caragol to the deck and
put his head out the kitchen door.

Since its first look at Tony sensed that something important was about
to happen.

The captain had a brave and cheerful air.

At the same time saw the kindness of her smile exaggerated desire
to seduce, to impose something gently considered of doubtful acceptance.

-
I'll be happy - Ferragut said to shake his hand -.

Soon we shall sail.

They entered the room. Ulysses watched his ship with some surprise, as if he were returned to
him after a long journey. I was looking different, arose before his eyes details had never
attracted attention.

Recapitulated in a synthesis that was like a lightning stroke, all that had occurred in less than two
weeks.

Could see for the first time of great change in her life since Freya
had come to pick you up steam.

Was seen in his hotel room in front of her, who was dressed as a man and smoked looking the
Gulf.

- I am German y. ..

Suddenly he would explain his mysterious life, even less comprehensible
detail.

She was German and served his country. Modern war nations mass rises, it is not, as in other centuries,
a small minority clash of professionals whose job is the fight.

All strong men went to the battlefields, the others working in the
industrial centers of war turned into workshops.

And this included general activity also to women who engaged in the
service of parental work in factories and hospitals or intelligence
beyond his borders.

Ferragut, surprised by this revelation brutal, fell silent, and finally
dared to ask their thinking.

- According to this, are you a spy?

...

She noted with disdain the word. It was an outdated term that had lost its original significance.
Spies were in other times, when only professional soldiers took part in the war, mingled voluntarily
or by interest in the operations, surprising the enemy's preparations.

Now with the mass mobilization of peoples, had gone the old spy craft,
despicable villain, who face death for money.

There were only patriots tiding of work for their country, some with weapons hand, other craft
using or exploiting the qualities of their sex.

Ulysses was taken aback by this theory.

- So, Dr. ...?-- again asked,
guessing what could be the awesome lady.

Freya said with an expression of enthusiasm and respect.

His friend was a distinguished patriot, wise to put all his faculties to the service of their
country. She adored her. It was his protector: had saved the most difficult moments of its existence.

-
And the Count? - Kept asking Ferragut.

Here the woman made a gesture given reservation.

- It is also a great patriot ... But enough about him.

There was respect and fear his words. It was evident desire not to deal with this arrogant character.

A
long silence. Freya, as if fearing the effects of meditation master, the cut suddenly with his
impassioned speech.

The doctor and she had come to Rome to take refuge in Naples, fleeing
from the intrigues and gossip of the capital.

The Italians were fighting among themselves: some were in favor of war, others of neutrality. No
one wanted to help Germany, its former ally.

- Both have protected them! - He said -.

Raza, false and ungrateful ...

His gestures and his words evoked the memory of Ulysses in the image
of Dr. scolding to the Italian land from a car window on the first
day he spoke.

Were the two women in Naples, entertaining his futile hopes to travel to the populations nearby,
where they found the ocean.

- I kept a good memory of you - continued Freya -. I guessed from the first moment our friendship
was going to end up as over ...

He read the look of him a question.

- I know what you're going to say. Strange that I made you wait so long, that made thee suffer with
my whims ... Is that I loved you while I wanted to get away. Posed, an attraction and a hindrance.
I feared in my affairs complicate ... Also, I need to be free to
devote to fulfilling my mission.

There was another long pause. Freya's eyes were fixed on her lover with a tenacity searching. I
wanted to probe his mind, realizing the maturity of its preparation, before risking the decisive
blow. His examination was satisfactory.

- And now that I know - he said with painful slowness - leave! ... You can not love me; I am
a spy as you say, a wretch ... I know you can not still love me after from what I have revealed.
Get away on your ship, like the heroes of legend, and we will not
more.

All we will have been a beautiful dream ... Leave me alone.

I do not know what fate will be the mine, but I care about is your peace of mind.

His eyes filled with tears. He fell face down on the couch, hiding his face between the arms
while crying hiccups shook the lovely curves of her back.

Odysseus, moved by the pain, while he admired the perspicacity of Freya, who guessed all your
ideas. The voice of good counsel, that voice spoke rope in the middle of Brain saw the captain
at a difficult time, had begun to scream shocked to the first revelations of this woman:

"Ferragut, run! ... You're in a bad way. You do not want the deal with such people. What hast thou
to do with the country of this adventure? Why face a hazard cause anything to you? ... What you wanted
it you have it. Be selfish, my son! "

But the voice of his other mental hemisphere, and that swaggering voice that drove him to mad loaded
on ships destined for shipwreck, to defy the dangers for the sake
of test their effect, also gave advice.

Villain was a woman to leave. Only afraid he could do ... Both seemed
to love the German!

...

And with its lush southern hugged her and lifted her up, away from his forehead loops of the
hair, which had been destroyed, caressing her like a sick child, drinking their tears with endless
kisses.

No, do not leave! ... What is more, he was ready to defend it against all enemies. The I did
not know who these enemies, but if I needed a man, there he was to
him ...

In vain the voice rope insulted him while formulating such
offers.

Undertook blindly maybe this adventure was going to be the most terrible in its history ...
But to allay her scruples, another voice shouted: "You are a gentleman and a gentleman does
not leave for fear of a woman hours after receiving this from your body. Go ahead, captain! "

A selfish coward excuse emerged in his thinking, made in one piece. He was Spanish, was a neutral,
that had nothing to do with the war in Central Europe.

His second had spoken at times of solidarity of race, Latino people, the need to end to militarism,
to make war so that there are no more wars ... Simplicity Reader
gullible!

He was not English or French.

Nor was German, but the woman he loved was, and was not going to abandon it for some antagonism
that seemed uninteresting.

Freya should not mourn.

Her lover said repeatedly that he wanted to live always at his side,
was not going to abandon it for what he had said, and even gave his
word of honor as evidence that would help in everything we consider
it possible and worth it.

So its fate decided hastily Captain Ulysses Ferragut.

When her lover took him back to the house of Dr., was received by it as well that if it belonged
to his family.

And had no reason to hide their nationality. Freya called simply Frau Doktor. And she, with
teacher verbal enthusiasm, finished catechize the ocean, explaining the law and reason of
his country to go to war with half Europe.

Poor Germany had to defend himself. The Kaiser was a man of peace, notwithstanding for many
years had methodically prepared a military force capable of crushing to humanity. All had caused,
all had been first to attack him. The arrogant French, long before declaring war, sent clouds
of airplanes on German cities bombed.

Ferragut blinked in surprise. This was new to him.

Must have occurred while at sea. Verbose authoritarianism of Dr no doubt allowed ... Besides,
that lady should know things better than those living at sea.

Then had come the English challenge. As a traitor of melodrama, the British government preparing for war
came from a long time, not wanting to appear until the last minute. And Germany, lover of peace,
had to defend against this enemy, the worst.

- God punish England! "- Said the doctor, looking at Ulysses.

And that, not disappoint, his hopes, he shook his head gallantly ...
For he could punishing God.

But to express felt so agitated by a new duality. The English had been good comrades pleasantly
recalled his voyages as an officer on board ship British. While some irritation caused him increasing
his power, invisible to men inland, monstrous for those living at
sea.

They were found as dominant in all the oceans or solidly installed
in all strategic costs and commercial.

The doctor, as if divining the need to stoke their hatred against
the great enemy, appealed to historical memories: Gibraltar won by
the English, the piracy of Drake, the American galleons with methodical
regularity captured by the British fleet, the landings off the coast
of Spain, which had disrupted the lives of the peninsula in other
centuries.

England at the beginning of his greatness in the reign of Elizabeth,
was the size of Belgium.

If you had done large, was at the expense of the Spanish and Dutch, to dominate the world.

And so vehemently spoke the English doctor gives the evils of England
against Spain the ocean impressionable spontaneously ended by saying:

-
May God punish!

...

But here the navigator reappeared Mediterranean, Ulises complicated and contradictory. It was
agreed Suddenly the repairs of his ship, which should be compensated for England.

"May God punish ... but wait a bit! "he muttered in his thinking.

The imposing teacher was exasperated when talking about the land they lived.

- Mandolinists! Bandits! - Shouted, as always, against the Italians.

How much were they owed to Germany.

Emperor William had been a father to them. All everyone knew this! ... And yet, at the outbreak
of war, refused to follow their old friends. Now German diplomacy should work, not to keep his side,
but for were to prevent adversaries. Every day he received news from Rome. There was hope
to keep Italy neutral. But who could trust the word of such people? ... And he repeated his angry
insults.

The ocean immediately got used to this house, as if it were theirs. The few times Freya was separated
from him, was going to look in the hall of the imposing lady, who
took Ulises air with a gentle mother.

In several of his visits he met the Count. The taciturn character handed him a hand instinctively
keep a certain distance. Ulysses knew now his true nationality and he did not know this, but the
two continued the fiction of Count Kaledine, diplomat Russian. Like everything about this
man commanded respect in the house of Dr., Ferragut, attentive his selfish love, not allow
any investigation, links to instructions the two women.

He had never so happy as in those days. Experienced the monstrous pleasure which is sitting at table
in a well-heated room and go to sea crystals stormy, with a ship
against the waves. 

Newsboys hawked the terrible battles in central
Europe were burning cities under bombardment, thousands died every
twenty four hours and thousands of human beings ... And he did not
read anything, do not want to know. Continued its existence as if
the world lived happiness in a paradise, sometimes waiting for Freya,
evoking his memory esplendideces your body, refinements and new sensations
that he tried his passion, others embraced to reality, with a rapture
that erased and deleted everything that was not two of them.

Something,
however, he suddenly pulled his selfishness love, something that overshadowed
his gesture, started his forehead with a wrinkle of concern and made
him go on board.

When he sat in the great chamber of the vessel,
against his mate, his elbows on the table and began to suck on a fat
cigar he had just lit.

- We shall go very soon - repeated with obvious
concern -. You'll be glad, Toni, I think you'll be happy.

Toni was
unmoved. I expected something more. The captain, a journey, he always
said the destination port and the specialty of the load. So, realizing
that Ferragut would not add anything, ventured to ask:

- Is it where
we're going to Barcelona? ...

Ulysses hesitated, looking toward the
door as if fearing to be heard. Then he saw the bust to Toni.

It
was a journey without danger, but that it should be a mystery.

-
I'll tell it to you because you know all my stuff, because I feel
like my family.

The pilot did not seem excited about this show of
confidence. Impassive, while inside were beginning to awaken all the
concerns that had been agitated in the days above.

He kept talking
about the captain. Were times of war, and should use them. For both
not a novelty carrying shipments of military equipment. He had led
a time in Europe arms and ammunition for a revolution in South America.
Toni had told his adventures in the Gulf of California by sending
a small schooner that served as transport to the insurgents in the
northern provinces rose up against the government of Mexico.

But
the second, at the time she moved her head yes, him with questioning
eyes. What were they going to carry on this trip? ...

- Toni, it's
not artillery or rifles, nor of ammunition ... It is a short work
and well paid, we will lose little way in our return to Barcelona.

He
stopped in his confidence, feeling one last hesitation, and finally
said, lowering his voice:

- The Germans paid! ... Let us provide
essential oil to the submarines have in the Mediterranean.

Contrary
to expected Ferragut, his second did not make a gesture of surprise.
Impassive, as if this news was meaningless to him. Then he smiled
slightly, shaking his shoulders the same as if he had heard something
absurd ... Did the Germans had submarines the Mediterranean? Could
one of these machines sailors, small and fragile, making long crossing
from the North Sea to the Strait of Gibraltar?

Was aware of the great
evils which caused the submarine near England but in a small area
in the limited range that they were capable. The Mediterranean Fortunately
for merchant ships, was to shed its treacherous wiles.

Ferragut interrupted
him with a vehemence south. This man, extreme in their passions, expressed
as the doctor spoke as if his mouth.

- You're referring to the submarine,
Toni, to the small submarine that existed at the start war: steel
cigar fragile, plying evil to separate water and can be opened to
retail Shock ... But now there's more: there is the sub, which is
guarded like a submarine by a ship's hull, which may go blind in midwater
and at the same time can navigate on the surface better than a shortstop
... You do not know what they are capable German. They are a great
people, the world's first! ...

And with impulsive exaggeration, insisted
glorifying German and inventiveness, as if a share of this glory mechanical
and destructive.

"Come, sweet maidens," she cried gleefully, as the frightened girls clasped each other closer
upon the bed, "come away. The Marshal de Retz calls for you. He hath need of your beauty to
grace his feast. The lights of the banquet burn in his hall. See the fire of burning shine
out upon the night. The very trees are red with it. The skies are red. All is red. Come--up--make
yourselves fair for the eyes of the great lord to behold!"

Then behind La Meffraye entered Gilles de Sillé and Poitou, the marshal's servants.

"Make ready in haste--you are both to go instantly before my lord, who abides your coming!"
said Gilles de Sillé. "Poitou and I will abide without the door, and La Meffraye here shall
be your tirewoman and see that you have that which you need. But hasten, for my lord is instant
and cannot be kept waiting!"

       *       *       *       *       *

So they brought the Scottish maidens down from the White Tower into the night. They walked
hand in hand. Their steps did not falter, and, as they went, they prayed to God to keep them
from the dangers of the place. Astarte, the she-wolf, who must have kept guard beneath, stalked
before them, and behind them they seemed to hear the hobbling crutch and cackling laughter
of La Meffraye.

Across the wide courtyard of Machecoul they went. It also was filled with the reflection of
the red tide of light which ebbed and flowed, waxing and waning above. Saving for that window
the whole castle was wrapped in gloom and silence, and if there were any awake within the precincts
they knew better than to spy upon the midnight doings of their dread lord.

The little party passed up the great staircase of the keep and presently halted before the
inscribed wooden door by which Laurence had entered the Temple of Evil.

As Gilles de Sillé opened it for the maids to precede him, the skirt of Maud Lindesay's robe,
blown back by the draught of the chamber, fluttered against the cheek of Laurence MacKim as
he lay on his face in the niche of the wall. At the light touch he came to himself, and looked
about with a strange and instant change in all the affections and movements of his heart.

With the coming in of the maidens, fear seemed utterly to forsake him. A clarity of purpose,
an alertness of brain, a strength of heart unknown before, took the place of the trembling
bath of horror in which he had swooned away.

It was like the sudden appearance of two white angels walking fearless and unscathed through
the grim dominions of the Lords of Hell.

Incarnate Good had somehow entered the house of the Demon, though it was in the slender periphery
of two maidens' bodies, and evil, strong and resistless before, seemed in the moment to lose
half its power.

CHAPTER LIX

THE LAST SACRIFICE TO BARRAN-SATHANAS

And as Laurence MacKim, crouched in the dim obscurity of the curtained doorway, looked forth,
this is what he saw.

Maud Lindesay and Margaret Douglas advanced into the centre of the temple where was a slab
of white marble let into the floor. As if by instinct the two maids stopped upon it, standing
hand in hand before the iron altar and the vast shadowy image which gloomed above and appeared
to reach forward in act to clutch them. After the first check in his hideous incantations,
Gilles de Retz had returned to his own chamber, in which, after his entrance, the light gleamed
brighter and more fiercely red than ever. As the maidens stood on the marble square La Meffraye
went to the door and called certain words within, conveying some message which Laurence could
not hear.

Then with an assured carriage and haughty stride came forth the marshal, his grey hair and
blue-black beard in strong contrast with his haggard corpse-pale face, from which the momentary
glow of youth half-restored had already faded, as fades a footprint upon wet sand.

Gilles de Sillé and Poitou bowed silently before him as men who have done their commission,
and who retire to await further orders. But La Meffraye, once more apparent, stood her ground.

"Here are the dainty maids from the far land; no beggars' brats are they. No strays and pickings
from the streets. No, nor yet silly village innocents who follow La Meffraye from the play-fields
through the woodlands to the Paradise of our Lord Gilles! Hasten not the joy! Let these pearls
of youth and beauteousness die indeed, but let them die slowly and deliciously. And in the
last blood of an ancient race let our master bathe and find the new life he seeks. Hear us,
O Barran-Sathanas, and grant our prayer!"

Then La Meffraye approached the maids and would have touched the dress of the little Margaret,
as if to order it more daintily for the pleasing of her master's eye. But Maud Lindesay thrust
her aside like an unclean thing.

Whereat La Meffraye laughed till her rusty black cloak quivered and rustled from hood to hem.

"Ah, my proud lady," she croaked, "in a little, in a very little, you too will be calling upon
La Meffraye to save you, to pity you. But I, La Meffraye, will gloat over each drop of blood
that distils from your fair neck. Aha, you shall change your tone when at the white throat-apple
which your sweetheart would have loved to kiss, you feel the bite of the sharp slow knife.
Then you will not thrust aside La Meffraye. Then you shall cry and none shall pity. Then she
will spurn you from her knees."

"Out!" said Gilles de Retz, briefly, and like some inferior imping devilkin before the great
Master of Evil, La Meffraye retreated hobbling to the doorway of the marshal's chamber, where
she crouched nodding and chuckling, mumbling inaudible words, and mingling them ever with her
dry cackling laughter.

Gilles de Retz stopped at the corner of the platform and looked long at Maud and Margaret where
they stood on the great central square of marble. It was the Maid who spoke first.

"Dear Messire," she said sweetly and almost confidently, "you have a little girl of your own.
I know, for I have played with her. I love her. Therefore you will not hurt us. I am sure you
will not hurt us. You are going to send us back in a ship to our own country, because it is
lonely here where Maud and I know no one!"

The marshal smiled upon her his inhuman inscrutable smile. He leaned against a pillar of strangely
twisted design, and contemplated the two victims at his ease.

"Life is sweet to you, is it not?" he said at last; "you are truly happy, being young, and
so have no need to be made young again."

"Oh, but I am very old," cried the Maid, gaining some confidence from the quiet of his voice,
"I am nearly eight years old. And our Maudie here, she is--oh, a dreadful age! She is very,
very old!"

"You would not like to die?" suggested Gilles de Retz, with a certain soft insinuation.

"Oh, no," said Margaret Douglas, "I am going to live long and long--till every one in the world
loves me. I am going to help every one to get what he most desires. And you know I can, for
I shall be very rich. And if what they say is true, and I am Princess of Galloway, I shall
marry and be a very great lady. But I shall never marry any one who is not a Douglas."

The marshal nodded.

"I do not think that you shall marry any one who is not a Douglas!" he said, with a certain
grave and not discourteous irony in his tones.

"Yes," the little Maid went on. She had lost all fear in the very act of speech. "Yes, and
Maud, she is going to marry Sholto--and they will be very happy, for they love each other so.
I know it, for she told me to-night just before you sent for us to come to your feast. That
was kind of you to remember us, though it was past bed-time. But now, good marshal, you will
send us back, will you not? Now, look kind to-night. You will be glad afterwards that you were
good to two maids who never harmed you, but are ready to love you if you prove kind to them."

"Hush, Margaret," said Maud Lindesay. "It is useless to speak such words to such a man."

The Marshal de Retz turned sharply to her.

"Ah," he said, with a curious bite in his speech, "then, my young lady, you would not love
me, even if I were to let you go!"

"I should hate and abominate you for ever and ever, even if you helped me into Paradise!" quoth
Maud Lindesay, giving him defiance in a full eye-volley.

"So," he said calmly, "I am indeed likely to help you into Paradise this very night. That is,
unless Saint Peter of the Keys makes up his mind that so outspoken and tricksome a maid had
best take a few thousand years of purgatory--as it were on her way upwards, en passant."

A sudden lowering passion at this point altered his countenance.

"No," he thundered, standing up erect from the pillar against which he had been leaning, and
his whole voice and bearing changing past description, "it is enough--listen! I will be brief
with you. I have brought both of you here that you may die. I cannot expect of you that you
will understand or appreciate my motives, which are indeed above the knowledge of children.
This is a temple to a Great God, and he demands the sacrifice of the noblest and most innocent
blood. I do you the honour to believe that it is here to my hand. Also, your deaths will cause
a number of people both in Scotland and elsewhere to sit easier in their seats. Lastly, I had
sworn that you should die if your friends from Scotland came to trouble me. They have come,
and Gilles de Retz keeps his word--as doth the Master whom he serveth!"

He bowed in the direction of the vast shadowy figure, which to Laurence's eye appeared to turn
towards his niche with a leer, as if to say, "Listen to him. What a fool he is!"

The maids stood silent, not comprehending aught save that they were to die. Then suddenly Gilles
de Retz cried out in his loudest military tones--"Henriet, Poitou, De Sillé, bind these maidens
upon the iron altar, that Barran-Sathanas may feed his eyes on their beauty and rejoice!"

And as they stood motionless upon the square of white marble, the servitors came forward and
led them to the great altar of iron. They lifted the maidens up and laid their bodies crosswise
upon the vast grid, the bars of which were as thick as a man's arm, arranging them so that
their heads hung without support over the bar next the shadowy image.

As they bound them rudely hand and foot, the long and beautiful hair of Maud Lindesay escaped
from its fastenings and fell down till it reached the bath of red porphyry which extended underneath
the whole length of the altar of iron.

Then through all the Temple of Evil there ensued sudden silence. Not a sob or a moan escaped
from the doomed maidens, and the feet of the assistants fell silent and soft as the paws of
wild beasts upon the ebon floor.

Gilles de Retz waited till his acolytes had retired to their appointed places, where they stood
like carven statues watching what should happen. Then slowly and deliberately he ascended to
the broad platform from which the iron altar rose, and stood with his arms folded over his
flame-coloured robe, looking gloatingly down, upon his innocent victims. Maud Lindesay was
the nearer to him, and her unbound hair fell back and touched the peak of his pointed shoe
of crimson Cordovan leather.

With a quick movement he caught up a handful of its rich luxuriance and allowed it to run through
his fingers like sand again and yet again, with apparent delight in the sensation.

Even as he did so the dim figure of the horned demon above appeared to lean forward as if to
touch him, and with a rushing noise the great hour-glass set upon a pedestal at the foot of
the image turned itself completely over. Gilles with a startled air turned also, and seeing
what it was he laughed a strange hollow laugh.

"It is indeed the hour, the hour of doom, fair maids," he said, looking down upon them as deferentially
as if he had been paying his court in the great hall of Thrieve, "but it shall not pass without
taking with it your souls to another, and I trust a higher, sphere!"

He paused, but no complaint or appeal reached his cruel and inexorable ear. The certain graciousness
of Providence to those in extreme peril seemed to have blunted the edge of fear in the innocent
victims. They lay still and apparently without consciousness upon the iron altar. The red glow
played upon their faces, shining through from the inner chamber, and the figure of the marshal
stood out black against it.

On the floor lay the goblet from which he had drunk the Red Milk.

"Give me the knife!" he cried, sudden as a trumpet that is blown.

And reaching a withered hand within the marshal's chamber as if to detach something from the
wall, La Meffraye hobbled quickly across the altar platform, bearing in her hand a shining
weapon of steel, broad of blade and curved at the point. She placed the ebony handle in the
marshal's hand, who weighed it lovingly in his grasp.

Then for the first time since the men had bound her, the sweet childish eyes of little Margaret
were unclosed and looked up at Gilles de Retz with the touching wonder of helplessness and
innocence.

At that moment the image appeared to Laurence to beckon to him out of the gloom. A quick and
nervous resolve ran through his veins. His muscles became like steel within his flesh. He rose
to his feet, and, without pause for thought, rushed across the chapel from the niche where
he had been hidden.

"Murderer! Fiend! I will kill you!" he cried, and with his dagger bare in his hand he would
have thrown himself upon the marshal. But swifter than the rush of the young man in his strength
there came another from the door of the inner chamber.

With a deep-throated roar of wholly bestial fury, Astarte the she-wolf sprang upon Laurence,
and, though he sank his dagger twice to the hilt in her hairy chest, she over-bore him and
they fell to the ground with her teeth gripping his shoulder. Laurence felt the hot life-blood
of the beast spurt forth and mingle with his own. Then a flood of swirling waters seemed to
bear him suddenly away into the unknown.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Laurence MacKim came to himself he emerged into a chill world in which he felt somehow
infinitely lonely and forsaken. Next he grew slowly conscious that his feet and arms were bound
tightly with cords that cut painfully into the flesh. Then he realised that he, too, had taken
his place beside the maids upon the altar of iron. Strangely enough he did not feel afraid
nor even wish himself elsewhere. He only wondered what would happen next.

He opened his eyes and lo! they looked directly into the leering countenance of the monstrous
image. Yet there seemed something curiously encouraging and even beneficent about the aspect
of the demon. But so often as Gilles de Retz passed the triple array of his victims with his
back to the image, the regard of the sculptured devil followed him, grim and mocking.

Words of angry altercation came to the ears of Laurence MacKim.

"I tell you," cried the voice of Gilles de Retz, "I will not spare them. Well nigh had I succeeded.
Almost I was young again. I was tasting the first sweetness of knowledge wide as that of the
gods. I felt the new life stirring within me. But I had not enough of the blood of innocence,
which is the only worthy libation to Barran-Sathanas, who alone can bestow youth and life."

Then the Lady Sybilla answered him. "I pray you, Gilles de Retz, as you hope for mercy, slay
not these maidens and this youth. Take me, and bind me, instead, for the sacrifice of death.
I have wrought enough of evil! Take of my blood and work out your purpose. Let me give you
the libation you desire. Gilles de Retz, if ever I have aided you, grant me this boon now. Repulsive softness cut again exhaling a stench unbearable. Were opening trenches on a piece
of land that had served as a cemetery to the Turks. Bellies swollen split apart under the blades,
juices spilling its putrefaction. The need the guard had forced the Legion to live with his
face to the level of the bodies poking at the coalface of disturbed soil.

- The dead were like truffles on a cake - said the South American -. I had to stay a whole day with
my nose touching the guts of a Turk died two weeks before ... No, war is not chic, captain, though
talk of heroism and sublime things in newspapers and books.

Ulysses wanted to see again to the "three musketeers" before from Thessaloniki, but the battalion
had raised their field, located many miles inland, opposite the first Bulgarian lines. Blanes
enthusiast and fired his rifle against the murderers of Roger de Flor.

In mid-November came the Mare Nostrum Marseille. Its captain always experienced some admiration
to round the Cape Croisette, watching the bow opened to a vast Maritime curve. In the center of it, a
steep hill and moved towards the sea naked, holding at its peak the
basilica and the square tower of Our Lady of the Guard.

Marseille was the metropolis of the Mediterranean, the port terminal
for all boaters mare nostrum.

In the bay, from short waves rose several islands yellowish stripes foam, and one novel robust
towers Chateau d'If.

Everyone from Ferragut to the last sailors, looked like something out of city was hovering at
the bottom of the bay, its forests of masts and buildings crowding gray, over which shone the Byzantine
domes of the new cathedral. Around Marseille Chamber opened a dry bare heights, colored brightly
by the sun Provence.

The towns and villages dotting these slopes white and fortified towns, "Villas" of delight from
the merchants of the city. Beyond the semicircle, the horizon was enclosed by an amphitheater
of rough, dark mountains.

In previous trips, the sight of the giant Virgin golden, shining like a spear of fire on top of
Our Lady of the Guard, spreading the joy on the bridge ship.

- Marseille, Toni! - Said the captain merrily -. Invites you to a home bouillabaisse Pascal.

And
Toni contracted the hairy face of gluttony smile seeing in advance the famous restaurant port,
halls smelling of twilight to seafood and spicy sauces, and on the
table the deep dish of fish with a delicious broth tinged with saffron.

But

now Odysseus had lost his vigorous joy of life. Eyes gazed upon the city loving but sad. Was seen
disembarking the last time, ill, without a will, stunned by the tragic death of his son.

The Mare Nostrum came to the mouth of the old port, taking his right batteries Faro. The old port
was the most interesting memories of the former Marseille.

Penetrated as a Water Knife in the bowels of the settlement, the city extended their docks.
Was a square to the huge water that flowed all the streets, but their area was negligible for
maritime traffic, and eight new ports coming to cover the entire northern shore of the bay.

An
endless rubble, a wall longer than the city, stretched parallel to
the sea, and space between the bank and this obstacle, which required
to froth and roar to the waves, extending the eight large ports, communicating
with each other from the so-called de la Joliette, which was accessible
to as far Stake.

Beneath in the courts and quadrangles, swarming through the towers and clambering perilously
on the roofs, surged the press of the furious populace. It was all that Duke John and his officers
could do to keep the prisoners in ward, and to prevent them from being torn limb from limb
(as had perhaps been fittest), and tossed alive into the flaming funeral pyre of Castle Machecoul,
which, lighted by a hundred hands, presently began to flame like a volcano to the skies.

For the hour that comes to every evil-doer had come to Gilles de Retz. And in that hour, as
it shall ever be, the devil in whom he trusted had forsaken him.

But the Lady Sybilla stood on the garden tower that in happier days had been her pleasaunce,
and beheld. And as she watched she kissed the golden crucifix of the child Margaret. And her
heart rejoiced because the lives of the innocent as well as the death of the guilty had been
given her for her portion.

"And now, O Lord, I am ready to pay the price!" she said.

CHAPTER LX

HIS DEMON HATH DESERTED HIM

The soldiers of the Duke of Brittany stood with bared swords and deadly pikes around the Marshal
de Retz and those of his servants who had been taken--that is to say, round Poitou, Clerk Henriet,
Blanquet, and Robin Romulart. About them surged ever more fiercely the angry populace, drunk
with the hot wine of destruction, having been filled with inconceivable fury by that which
they had seen in the round tower wherein stood the filled bags of little charred remains.

"Tear the wolves into gobbets! Kill them! Burn them! Send them quick to Hell!" So ran the cry.

And twice and thrice the villagers of the Pays de Retz charged desperately as men who fight
for their lives.

"Stand to it, men!" cried Pierre de l'Hopital. "Gilles de Retz shall have fair trial!

"But I shall try him!" he added, under his breath.

Never was seen such a sight as the procession which conducted Gilles de Retz to the city of
Nantes. The Duke had sent for his whole band of soldiers, and these, in ordered companies,
marched in front and rear. A triple file guarded the prisoners, and even their levelled pikes
could scarce beat back the furious rushes of the populace. Let us imagine that this
wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been carried to the
grave the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness for deeper speculation metaphysical. It is clear
that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime and strange thoughts would not have been
in practical life or rich manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and nothing
in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make shoes, or any other office
or need a mechanic, and had not taken in pretense of being the genius to be a bum without a job
or benefit, and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable, but a vague whining and crying or
maldicente, caustic and poisonous like snakes.

Apologize, then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride was hidden in the center of the
soul, revealing only the most intimate of his friends at the moment in which also showed the
deepest wounds of his heart.

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to a friend,
in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if something
was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating
the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his early youth the excited the joy and
drove to work to distract and amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic.

It was, yes, ambitious and friend luxury and finery, and although not envy nor tormented despite
seeing other women, less attractive and less distinguished by nature, wear jewels, silks and
lace, go by car and surrounded by the bright halo that offers luxury beauty, longing enjoy all this
and could not quite hide her husband.

From here the pain and the starting point of the suspicions of Don Braulio.

If Don Braulio had not loved his wife, if he believed this longing irrational whim, may have cared
little of everything, but Don Braulio loved her, and also claims to be so consider the things
of life, Dona Beatriz had plenty of reason to covet. His desire, but take her to the end sorry for him,
was, he founded, and founded involuntary, fatal, accurate.

Don Braulio blamed himself, and not blame Dona Beatriz. Why had Dona Beatriz loved? Why had
married him? It was so cute and so young nor so handsome, neither as rich nor as glorious, it
was only by the higher understanding, he had seduced. If this understanding is evaporated, if good
for nothing, if he doubted Beatriz and perhaps rightly, what basis he had to keep loving Don Braulio?
Before ground was to hate.

Although it is a bad comparison, anyone who is not insane, buy a
rich cup China, an artistic Sevres porcelain vase to put in the yard
and throw it bran to eat the chickens. For this is more than enough
with a basin or a tinajón of Lucena. The glass art requires putting
on a beautiful lounge where: Pilgrim asked that flowers look at him.
Thus, a woman was asking Beatriz estate, gift, grace, worship, incense
ride in the car, not walk, to live in a palace, not in a third floor,
not hidden among the vulgar, but shine in the highest society.

In
thinking about this Don Braulio always said to himself: "Why I married
her?" "It
matters little. My work is nearly done!"

So, riding as was her custom all alone upon a white palfrey, she passed out of their sight
towards the south.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the city of Nantes the rumour of the taking of Gilles de Retz had spread like wild-fire,
and as the cavalcade rode through the streets, the windows rained down curses and the citizens
hooted up from the sidewalks. But the marshal kept his haughty and disdainful regard, appearing
like a noble nature who perforce companies for the nonce with meaner men. He sat his favourite
charger like a true companion of Dunois and De Richemont, and, as more than one remarked, on
this occasion he looked like the royal prince and the Duke of Brittany the prisoner.

So in the New Tower of the Castle of Nantes, Gilles de Retz was placed to wait his trial. There
is no need to give a long account of it. The documents have been printed in plain letter, and
all the world knows how Clerk Henriet faltered under the stern questioning of Pierre de l'Hopital,
and how finally he declared fully all these iniquities without parallel in which he had borne
so cruel a part.

Poitou, more faithful to his master, held out till the threat of torture and the appeals of
his friend Henriet broke him down. But the attitude and bearing of the chief culprit deserve
that the historian should not wholly pass them over.

Even in his first haughty and contemptuous silence, Gilles de Retz was shifting his ground,
and with a cool unheated intelligence orienting himself to new conditions. It soon became evident
to his mind that the powers of Evil in which he trusted, and to whose service he had consecrated
his life and fortune, had befooled and betrayed him.

Well--even so would he fool them--if, by the grace of God, there were yet any merit or hope
in the service of Good. The priests said so. The Scripture said so, and they might be right
after all. At least, the thing was worth trying.

For a cold and calculating brain lay behind the worst excesses of the terrible Lord de Retz.
The religion of the Cross might not be of much final use--still, it was all that remained,
and Gilles de Retz determined to avail himself of it. So once more he apostasised from Barran-Sathanas
to Jehovah.

With an effrontery almost too stupendous for belief, he arrayed himself in the white robes
of a Carmelite novice and spent his prison days in singing litanies and in private confession
with his religious adviser.

When the great day of the trial at last arrived, the marshal, who had expected on the bench
the weak kindly countenance of Duke John, was called upon to confront the indomitable judicial
rectitude of Pierre de l'Hopital, President and Grand-Seneschal of Brittany.

Gilles de Retz appeared at his trial dressed in white of the richest materials and with all
his military decorations upon him. But his judge, habited in stern and simple black, was not
in the least intimidated.

Then came the great surprise. After the evidence of Henriet and Poitou had been read to him,
the marshal was asked to plead. To the surprise of all, the accused claimed benefit of clergy.

"I have been a great sinner," he said, "I have indeed deserved a thousand deaths. But now I
am a man of God. I have confessed. I have received absolution for all my sins. God has forgiven
me, and my soul is cleansed!"

"Good!" answered Pierre de l'Hopital, "I have nothing to do with your soul. I must leave that,
as you very pertinently remark, to God. But I am here to try your body, and if found guilty
to condemn that body to suffer the penalties by law provided according to the statutes of Brittany."

Then Clerk Henriet was brought in to testify more fully of the crimes beyond parallel in the
history of mankind.

The court had been hung round with black, and the only object which appeared prominent was
a beautiful ivory crucifix with a noble figure of the Redeemer of Men carved upon it. This
was suspended, according to the custom, over the head of the President of the Tribunal.

Henriet had not proceeded far with his terrible relation of well nigh inconceivable crimes
when he stopped.

"I cannot go on," he said, in a broken appealing voice; "I cannot tell what I have to tell
with That Figure looking down upon me!"

So, with the whole Court standing up in reverence, the image of the Most Pitiful was solemnly
veiled from sight, that such deeds of darkness might not be so much as named in that holy and
gracious presence.

And during the ceremony Friar Gilles of the order of the Carmelites stood up more reverently
than any, for now, seeing that no better might be, he had definitely renounced Barran-Sathanas
and cast in his lot with God Almighty.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The sentence of this court is that you, Gilles de Laval, Lord of Retz, Marshal of France,
and you, Poitou and Henriet, be carried to the meadow of La Biesse at nine of the clock on
the morning of to-morrow, and that you be there hanged and burned till you be dead. And to
God the Just One be the glory!"

The voice of Pierre de l'Hopital rang out through the silence of the hall of judgment.

"Amen!" said Friar Gilles, devoutly crossing himself.

And so in due course on the meadow of La Biesse, by the side of the blue Loire, the evil soul
of Gilles de Retz went to its own place with all the paraphernalia of repentance and in the
full odour of a somewhat hectic sanctity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day after the burning, a little company of riders left the city of Angers, journeying westward
along the Loire. It consisted of the maidens Margaret Douglas and Maud Lindesay, with Sholto
MacKim and a dozen horsemen belonging to his Grace of Brittany. It had been arranged that they
were to be joined, upon an eminence above the river on the right bank, by the Lord James, Malise,
and Laurence, with the escort which was to accompany them to the port of Saint Nazaire. There
(as was necessary in order to escape the troublesome navigation of the swift and treacherous
upper reaches) they would find vessels ready to set sail for Scotland.

As the little cloud of riders left behind them the black towers of Angers, they passed through
woodland glades wherein, in spite of the lateness of the season, the birds were singing. The
air was mild and delightsome. At last, leaving the river, they struck away inland, having the
frowning towers of Champtocé on their left as they rode. Presently they came to a forest, wherein
in days before the great cruelty, Gilles de Retz had often hunted the wolf and the wild boar.

Here the woodland paths were covered deep with fallen leaves, and the naked branches spoke
of the desolation of a dead year.

As the maids rode forward first of their company and talked, as was natural, of that which
had taken place the day before at Nantes, they became aware of the Lady Sybilla riding towards
them on her palfrey of white. She would have passed them without speech, with her head downcast
and her eyes fixed upon the dank ground with its covering drift of dead autumnal leaves.

But Margaret, grateful for that which the Lady Sybilla had done for them at Machecoul, spurred
her steed and rode thwartwise to intercept her.

"Sybilla," she said, "you will come with us to Scotland. I have many castles there, and, they
tell me, a princessdom of mine own. We shall all be happy together and forget these ill times.
Maud and I can never repay that which you have done for us."

"Yes, I pray you come with us," said Maud, a little more slowly, "we will be your sisters,
and the ill times shall not come again."

The Lady Sybilla smiled a sad subtle smile and shook her head.

"I thank you. I thank you more than you know. He avoided the eyes of the lady
as a convicted criminal, and looked at the man with the same air used to announce desolate
depletion of a plate placed on the list. His gestures were trying to comfort protection moves Ferragut
of failure. "Patience and tenacity! ... Victorias most difficult he had seen in their clientele.
"

Before serving, put food on the table, by way of an appetizer, a bottle bulging of wine country,
a nectar from the slopes of Vesuvius with a distant sulfur taste. Freya had thirst and water
inspired him suspicious of this trattoria. Ulises needed to forget their recent failure ...
And the two made their libations to the gods, but with absolute purity
without a drop of water came to cut the clearness of the wine gem.

A group of singers and dancers filled the terrace. A coppery young, beautiful and dirty, wild hair,
big earrings in their ears and a multicolored striped apron, dancing under the arbor, waving aloft
a tambourine that was about the size of an umbrella.

Two little boys Lazaroni old dresses, with red cap and legs rolled up, accompanied by shouting
the lively dance of the tarantella.

The Gulf is colored pink, as if it grew in her womb, under the slanting rays of sun, vast forests
of coral.

The blue of the sky also turned pink, and mountains burned to reflect the dying star. The plume
was less white Vesuvius in the morning. His column hazy, streaked with red streaks in the dying
light, it seemed reflect the inner fire.

Ulysses felt friendly placid landscapes that inspire children covered. The had seen many times this
same scenario, with its dancers and its volcano, back in his big house Valencia: what fans
had seen in so-called "romantic" who collected his father.

Freya felt a thrill like that of his companion. The blue of the Gulf was of an intensity rabid
where not reflect the sun off the coast seemed to ocher houses had
a gaudy facades, and yet, all these disparate elements interpenetrate
and melted in a harmonious atmosphere, discreet, sweet elegance.

The vegetation was trembling in the breeze according to a measure. The air was musical, as if its
waves vibrate the strings of invisible harps.

This was for the real Greece Freya imagined by poets, not the burned
rock islands bare of vegetation he had seen in your travels around
the archipelago Greece.

- To live here the rest of my life - he murmured
with moist eyes -.

Dying here, forgotten single, Happy ...

Ferragut also wanted to die in Naples ... But with her!

... And his early and exuberant imagination described the delights of a life to two, love
and mystery, in any small "Villas" with garden overlooking the sea on the slopes of Possilipo.

The
dancers had gone to a sunroom, where the crowd was bigger. Entering new clients - nearly all
in pairs - and the day was falling. The waiter into the dining room was closed to some women with
large hats defaced, followed of young.

Through the open door came the sound of chases, crashes and jumps
with brutal laughter and tickling stifling laughter.

Freya turned
away, as if he offended the memory of his passage through this cave.

"That is not a savoury comparison," cried Margaret of Douglas, now grown older, and already
giving more than a mere promise of that wondrous beauty which afterwards made her celebrated
in all lands, "but after all, you, cousin James, have some right to make it. For, but for you
and our good Sholto there, this little ewe lamb would have been carrion indeed!"

"Good-by!" cried James of Avondale. "Haste thee and grow up, sweet coz. Then will I come back
with the rest of the corbies and take my chance of the feast. I will keep myself for that day."

But William Douglas sat square and silent on his charger.

The Maid of Galloway waved her hand gaily to the younger of the knights.

"You shall have your chance with the rest," she cried; "but you will not care about me then.
Very likely I may have to fleech and cozen with you like a sweetie-wife at a fair before either
of you will marry me. And you know I have sworn on the bones of Saint Bride to marry none but
a Douglas of the Douglases!"

Then William Douglas saluted without a word, and turning his bridle-rein rode away with his
face steadfastly set to the north. But James ever cried back farewells and jovial words long
after he was out of hearing. And even on the heights of Keltonmuir he still fluttered a gay
kerchief in his left hand.

Then Margaret Douglas went back within the gates, where her eyes fell upon Maud Lindesay, coming
through the castle yard to meet her. For that morning she had not wished to encounter Sholto--at
least not among so many. The two maidens walked on together, and which was the fairer, the
black or the nut-brown, none could say who beheld them.

After a while Margaret Douglas sighed.

"I wonder which of them I like the best," she said.

Maud laughed a merry, scornful laugh in which was a world of superior knowledge.

"You do not like either of them very much yet, or you would have no difficulty about the matter!"
said this wise woman.

"Well, I wonder which of them loves me best," she went on; "James tells me of it a hundred
times every day and all day. But William says nothing. He only looks at me often, as if he
disapproved of me. I am over light for him, I trow. He thinks not of me."

Then after a pause she said, again with her finger on her lip, "I wonder which of them would
do most for my sake?"

"I know!" said Maud Lindesay, promptly.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the young Avondales there had ridden forth Malise and his son Laurence on their way to
the Abbey of Dulce Cor. Sholto went also with them to convoy them to the fords of Urr.

For Laurence was to be a clerk after all.

And this is the way he explained it.

"The Abbot cannot live long, and there is no Douglas to succeed him. Then your little Maid
will make me Abbot, if that Maud of yours does her duty."

"She is not my Maud yet," sighed Sholto. For, as they say in Scotland, the lady had proved
"driech to draw up."

"But she will be in good time," urged Laurence, "and she must persuade the Lady Margaret of
my many and surprising virtues."

"The Lady Margaret hath doubtless seen these for herself. Were you not bound beside her on
the iron altar?" said Sholto.

"Yes, but I dirked the old witch-woman, or so they say. And that was no clerkly action!" objected
his brother.

"Fear not," said Sholto, "you have all of her favour you need without working by means of another's
petticoat. But how about marrying? You cannot wed or woo if you are a clerk. You did not use
to be so unfond of a lass in the gloamings along the sweet strand called the Walk of Lovers--you
know where!"

"Pshaw," cried Laurence, "I never yet saw the lass I liked better than myself. Freya moaning eyes
closed, without departing from its inertia.

The sailor, scowling, wrinkled with rage, with tragic ugliness, remained motionless, staring
grimly female to fall.

I was satisfied with his brutality, was a timely relief, breathing better. At the same time
I felt shame. "What have you done, cowardly ?...» For the first time in its existence had
hit a woman.

His right hand was sore to the eye level. One of his fingers bled. Maybe had caught on her earrings,
perhaps he had torn a lost pin on his chest.

He sucked the blood of the deep scratch and then forget this wound to continue watching the
body lying at his feet.

Little by little accustomed to the dim light of the room. Saw and all objects clearly. Freya
covered his eyes with a look that blended the hatred and remorse.

The head, buried in the pad, had a painful profile. She seemed much older, as if his age would
have doubled with tears.

The brutal coup had done away with funeral flapping its wonderful freshness and youth. His eyes
were half open an aura of momentary wrinkles, the nose had taken the pale edging of the dying.
The hull of her hair, broken under the punch, spread on brown and
wavy meshes.

Something black forming snaking tendrils of silk cushion.

Blood was running a short distance between heraldic flower embroidery, blood flowing from the
hidden temple, to be drunk by drying the soft padding.

Ferragut, to make this discovery, he felt increased their confusion. Stepped on body lay, for
the door. Why still there? ... All I had to do and was done, all they could say was already
said.

- Do not go, Ulises! - Sighed a mournful voice -. Listen! ... This is your life.

The fear that was incorporated to flee the painful moans, and this
movement accelerated the output of your blood ... The cushion continued
as a meadow watered thirsty.

An irresistible pity, equal to that of a stranger could feel abandoned in the middle Street, pushed
back to sea.

His eyes were fixed on a high glass tube rose from the ground with
his mouth full of flowers.

A blow on the carpet spread all this spring arranged earlier by feminine
hands with the fever that has waiting for the minutes and lives.

He dipped his handkerchief in the water of the flowers and knelt
Freya, raising his head pad. She was allowed to wash the wound with
a sick child abandonment, setting in offender pleading eyes, that
opened for the first time whole.

When the blood ceased to arise in
the head forming a red clot, Ferragut tried to lift.

- No, well let
me - she whispered -. I'd rather be at your feet. I am your slave
... your thing. Hit me more, if that calms your anger.

Wanted to
assert his humility advancing towards him with a kiss lips timid,
grateful servant.

- Ah, no! ... No!

Ulysses, to escape the touch,
stood with violence.

Again felt hatred against women by degrees recovered
his senses.

Sholto perforce released the pressure on her arm. She instantly put both hands behind her.

"You did not hurt me at all--hear you that, Master Sholto," she cried, "and I do not love you--not
that much, Sir Noble Bully!"

And she snapped her finger and thumb like a flash beneath his nose.

"Not that much!" she repeated viciously, and did it again. Sholto turned away sternly.

"You are nothing but a silly girl, and not worthy that any true man should either love or marry
you!" he said, walking off in the direction of the castle.

Maud Lindesay looked after him a moment as if not believing her eyes and ears. Then, so soon
as she made sure that he was indeed not coming back, she tripped quickly after him. He was
taking long strides, and it required a series of small hops and skips to keep up with him.

"Not really, Sholto?" she said beseechingly, almost running beside him now. He walked so fast.

"Yes, madam, really!" said that young knight, still more sternly.

She took a little run to get a step in front of him, so that she might advantageously look
up into his face.

"Then you will not marry me, Sholto?"

Her hands were clasped with the sweetest petitionary grace.

"No!"

The monosyllable escaped from his lips with a snort like a puff of steam from under the lid
of a boiling pot.

"Not even if I ask you very nicely, Sholto?"

"No!"

The negative came again, apparently fiercer than before, almost like an explosion indeed. But
still there was a hollow sound about it somewhere.

At this the girl stopped suddenly and, drawing a little lace kerchief from her bosom, she sank
her head into it in apparent abandonment of grief.

"Oh, what shall I do?" she wailed, "Sholto says he will not marry me, and I have asked him
so sweetly. What shall I do? What shall I do? I will e'en go and drown me in the Dee water!"

And with her kerchief still held to her eyes--or at least (to be wholly accurate) to one of
them--the despised maiden ran towards the river bank. She did not run very fast, but still she ran.

Now this was more than Sholto had bargained for, and he in turn pursued her light-foot, swifter
than he had ever run in his life. He overtook her just as she reached the little ascent of
the rocks by the river margin.

His hand fell upon her shoulder and he turned her round. She was still shaking with sobs--or
something.

"I will--I will, I will drown myself!" she cried, her kerchief closer to her eyes.

"I will marry you--I will do anything. I love you, Maud!"

"You do not--you cannot!" she cried, pushing him fiercely away, "you said you would not! That
I was not fit to marry."

"I did not mean it--I lied! I did not know what I said! I will do whatever you bid me!" Sholto
was grovelling now.

"Then you will marry me--if I do not drown myself?"

She spoke with a sort of relenting, delicious and tentative.

"Yes--yes! When you will--to-morrow--now!"

She dropped the kerchief and the laughing eyes of naughty Maud Lindesay looked suddenly out
upon Sholto like sunshine in a dark place. They were dry and full of merriment. Not a trace
of tears was to be discerned in either of them.

Then she gave another little skip, and, catching him by the arm, forced him to walk with her
toward Castle Thrieve. Missing or flowerbeds all around, where the flowers are also abundant, and
for more delicacy and under the flowers are gorgeous gorges, where they form a thousand reeds
drawings and mazes, ending in triangles and other mathematical figures. The upper points of the rods,
which are interwoven with those fences or gates, usually take two separate ornament eggshells
or cute and glazed zucchini. Bees and wasps buzz and encourage the playground during the day. The
Nightingale gives music at night.

In the winter, Córdoba takes good care of evergreens beautify your room. Canaries or finches
remember the spring with their songs, and if the householder is a hunter, partridges and quails
are not lacking songbirds in their cages, and guns and trophies Hunting
adorn the walls. She will be sitting gracefully on a white palfrey and hearkening to the bairns singing
by the watersides. And the tears fall down her cheeks as she listens, in the place where in
the spring-time of the year young William Douglas first met the Lady Sybilla.

THE END

