THE
                       HISTORY OF MARY PRINCE,
                        A WEST INDIAN SLAVE.

                         RELATED BY HERSELF.

                   WITH A SUPPLEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

                          To which is added,

                      THE NARRATIVE OF ASA-ASA,

                         A CAPTURED AFRICAN.
                               COWPER.

                               LONDON:
               PUBLISHED BY F. WESTLEY AND A. H. DAVIS,
                       STATIONERS' HALL COURT;
                   AND BY WAUGH & INNES, EDINBURGH.

                                1831.

PREFACE.

The idea of writing Mary Prince's history was first suggested by herself. She wished it to
be done, she said, that good people in England might hear from a slave what a slave had felt
and suffered; and a letter of her late master's, which will be found in the Supplement, induced
me to accede to her wish without farther delay. The more immediate object of the publication
will afterwards appear.

The narrative was taken down from Mary's own lips by a lady who happened to be at the time
residing in my family as a visitor. It was written out fully, with all the narrator's repetitions
and prolixities, and afterwards pruned into its present shape; retaining, as far as was practicable,
Mary's exact expressions and peculiar phraseology. No fact of importance has been omitted,
and not a single circumstance or sentiment has been added. It is essentially her own, without
any material alteration farther than was requisite to exclude redundancies and gross grammatical
errors, so as to render it clearly intelligible.

After it had been thus written out, I went over the whole, carefully examining her on every
fact and circumstance detailed; and in all that relates to her residence in Antigua I had the
advantage of being assisted in this scrutiny by Mr. Joseph Phillips, who was a resident in
that colony during the same period, and had known her there.

The names of all the persons mentioned by the narrator have been printed in full, except those
of Capt. I---- and his wife, and that of Mr. D----, to whom conduct of peculiar atrocity is
ascribed. These three individuals are now gone to answer at a far more awful tribunal than
that of public opinion, for the deeds of which their former bondwoman accuses them; and to
hold them up more openly to human reprobation could no longer affect themselves, while it might
deeply lacerate the feelings of their surviving and perhaps innocent relatives, without any
commensurate public advantage.

Without detaining the reader with remarks on other points which will be adverted to more conveniently
in the Supplement, I shall here merely notice farther, that the Anti-Slavery Society have no
concern whatever with this publication, nor are they in any degree responsible for the statements
it contains. I have published the tract, not as their Secretary, but in my private capacity;
and any profits that may arise from the sale will be exclusively appropriated to the benefit
of Mary Prince herself.

THO. PRINGLE.

7, Solly Terrace, Claremont Square,

January 25, 1831.

P. S. Since writing the above, I have been furnished by my friend Mr. George Stephen, with
the interesting narrative of Asa-Asa, a captured African, now under his protection; and have
printed it as a suitable appendix to this little history.

T. P.

THE HISTORY OF MARY PRINCE, A WEST INDIAN SLAVE.

(Related by herself.)

I was born at Brackish-Pond, in Bermuda, on a farm belonging to Mr. Charles Myners. My mother
was a household slave; and my father, whose name was Prince, was a sawyer belonging to Mr.
Trimmingham, a ship-builder at Crow-Lane. When I was an infant, old Mr. Myners died, and there
was a division of the slaves and other property among the family. I was bought along with my
mother by old Captain Darrel, and given to his grandchild, little Miss Betsey Williams. Captain
Williams, Mr. Darrel's son-in-law, was master of a vessel which traded to several places in
America and the West Indies, and he was seldom at home long together.

Mrs. Williams was a kind-hearted good woman, and she treated all her slaves well. She had only
one daughter, Miss Betsey, for whom I was purchased, and who was about my own age. I was made
quite a pet of by Miss Betsey, and loved her very much. She used to lead me about by the hand,
and call me her little nigger. This was the happiest period of my life; for I was too young
to understand rightly my condition as a slave, and too thoughtless and full of spirits to look
forward to the days of toil and sorrow.

My mother was a household slave in the same family. I was under her own care, and my little
brothers and sisters were my play-fellows and companions. My mother had several fine children
after she came to Mrs. Williams,--three girls and two boys. The tasks given out to us children
were light, and we used to play together with Miss Betsey, with as much freedom almost as if
she had been our sister.

My master, however, was a very harsh, selfish man; and we always dreaded his return from sea.
His wife was herself much afraid of him; and, during his stay at home, seldom dared to shew
her usual kindness to the slaves. He often left her, in the most distressed circumstances,
to reside in other female society, at some place in the West Indies of which I have forgot
the name. My poor mistress bore his ill-treatment with great patience, and all her slaves loved
and pitied her. I was truly attached to her, and, next to my own mother, loved her better than
any creature in the world. My obedience to her commands was cheerfully given: it sprung solely
from the affection I felt for her, and not from fear of the power which the white people's
law had given her over me.

I had scarcely reached my twelfth year when my mistress became too poor to keep so many of
us at home; and she hired me out to Mrs. Pruden, a lady who lived about five miles off, in
the adjoining parish, in a large house near the sea. I cried bitterly at parting with my dear
mistress and Miss Betsey, and when I kissed my mother and brothers and sisters, I thought my
young heart would break, it pained me so. But there was no help; I was forced to go. Good Mrs.
Williams comforted me by saying that I should still be near the home I was about to quit, and
might come over and see her and my kindred whenever I could obtain leave of absence from Mrs.
Pruden. A few hours after this I was taken to a strange house, and found myself among strange
people. This separation seemed a sore trial to me then; but oh! 'twas light, light to the trials
I have since endured!--'twas nothing--nothing to be mentioned with them; but I was a child
then, and it was according to my strength.

I knew that Mrs. Williams could no longer maintain me; that she was fain to part with me for
my food and clothing; and I tried to submit myself to the change. My new mistress was a passionate
woman; but yet she did not treat me very unkindly. I do not remember her striking me but once,
and that was for going to see Mrs. Williams when I heard she was sick, and staying longer than
she had given me leave to do. All my employment at this time was nursing a sweet baby, little
Master Daniel; and I grew so fond of my nursling that it was my greatest delight to walk out
with him by the sea-shore, accompanied by his brother and sister, Miss Fanny and Master James.--Dear
Miss Fanny! She was a sweet, kind young lady, and so fond of me that she wished me to learn
all that she knew herself; and her method of teaching me was as follows:--Directly she had
said her lessons to her grandmamma, she used to come running to me, and make me repeat them
one by one after her; and in a few months I was able not only to say my letters but to spell
many small words. But this happy state was not to last long. Those days were too pleasant to
last. My heart always softens when I think of them.

At this time Mrs. Williams died. I was told suddenly of her death, and my grief was so great
that, forgetting I had the baby in my arms, I ran away directly to my poor mistress's house;
but reached it only in time to see the corpse carried out. Oh, that was a day of sorrow,--a
heavy day! All the slaves cried. My mother cried and lamented her sore; and I (foolish creature!)
vainly entreated them to bring my dear mistress back to life. I knew nothing rightly about
death then, and it seemed a hard thing to bear. When I thought about my mistress I felt as
if the world was all gone wrong; and for many days and weeks I could think of nothing else.
I returned to Mrs. Pruden's; but my sorrow was too great to be comforted, for my own dear mistress
was always in my mind. Whether in the house or abroad, my thoughts were always talking to me
about her.

I staid at Mrs. Pruden's about three months after this; I was then sent back to Mr. Williams
to be sold. Oh, that was a sad sad time! I recollect the day well. Mrs. Pruden came to me and
said, "Mary, you will have to go home directly; your master is going to be married, and he
means to sell you and two of your sisters to raise money for the wedding." Hearing this I burst
out a crying,--though I was then far from being sensible of the full weight of my misfortune,
or of the misery that waited for me. Besides, I did not like to leave Mrs. Pruden, and the
dear baby, who had grown very fond of me. For some time I could scarcely believe that Mrs.
Pruden was in earnest, till I received orders for my immediate return.--Dear Miss Fanny! how
she cried at parting with me, whilst I kissed and hugged the baby, thinking I should never
see him again. I left Mrs. Pruden's, and walked home with a heart full of sorrow. The idea
of being sold away from my mother and Miss Betsey was so frightful, that I dared not trust
myself to think about it. We had been bought of Mr. Myners, as I have mentioned, by Miss Betsey's
grandfather, and given to her, so that we were by right her property, and I never thought we
should be separated or sold away from her.

When I reached the house, I went in directly to Miss Betsey. I found her in great distress;
and she cried out as soon as she saw me, "Oh, Mary! my father is going to sell you all to raise
money to marry that wicked woman. You are my slaves, and he has no right to sell you; but it
is all to please her." She then told me that my mother was living with her father's sister
at a house close by, and I went there to see her. It was a sorrowful meeting; and we lamented
with a great and sore crying our unfortunate situation. "Here comes one of my poor picaninnies!"
she said, the moment I came in, "one of the poor slave-brood who are to be sold to-morrow."

Oh dear! I cannot bear to think of that day,--it is too much.--It recalls the great grief that
filled my heart, and the woeful thoughts that passed to and fro through my mind, whilst listening
to the pitiful words of my poor mother, weeping for the loss of her children. I wish I could
find words to tell you all I then felt and suffered. The great God above alone knows the thoughts
of the poor slave's heart, and the bitter pains which follow such separations as these. All
that we love taken away from us--Oh, it is sad, sad! and sore to be borne!--I got no sleep
that night for thinking of the morrow; and dear Miss Betsey was scarcely less distressed. She
could not bear to part with her old playmates, and she cried sore and would not be pacified.

The black morning at length came; it came too soon for my poor mother and us. Whilst she was
putting on us the new osnaburgs in which we were to be sold, she said, in a sorrowful voice,
(I shall never forget it!) "See, I am shrouding my poor children; what a task for a mother!"--She
then called Miss Betsey to take leave of us. "I am going to carry my little chickens to market,"
(these were her very words,) "take your last look of them; may be you will see them no more."
"Oh, my poor slaves! my own slaves!" said dear Miss Betsey, "you belong to me; and it grieves
my heart to part with you."--Miss Betsey kissed us all, and, when she left us, my mother called
the rest of the slaves to bid us good bye. One of them, a woman named Moll, came with her infant
in her arms. "Ay!" said my mother, seeing her turn away and look at her child with the tears
in her eyes, "your turn will come next." The slaves could say nothing to comfort us; they could
only weep and lament with us. When I left my dear little brothers and the house in which I
had been brought up, I thought my heart would burst.

Our mother, weeping as she went, called me away with the children Hannah and Dinah, and we
took the road that led to Hamble Town, which we reached about four o'clock in the afternoon.
We followed my mother to the market-place, where she placed us in a row against a large house,
with our backs to the wall and our arms folded across our breasts. I, as the eldest, stood
first, Hannah next to me, then Dinah; and our mother stood beside, crying over us. My heart
throbbed with grief and terror so violently, that I pressed my hands quite tightly across my
breast, but I could not keep it still, and it continued to leap as though it would burst out
of my body. But who cared for that? Did one of the many by-standers, who were looking at us
so carelessly, think of the pain that wrung the hearts of the negro woman and her young ones? It
should only be the binding of several nice old German story you with many events from the coexistence
of the old knight of Valtellina and its Tuerlings three daughters, interrupts with the supply and
the departure of the narrator concludes. So I love the poem, had it remained suspended, and the
sense of readers seemed to Are missing. Now that this story more, and even has the old German
skirts in front of him fell, me again in the hands, and I try to submit them to the readers with
the memory that they were designed for educational purposes, as I have from the so-called romance
knew little, and that they therefore loquacious in addition to the latest Knights of Roman poets
Simpson begs for mercy. If the reader through Eisenfresserei spoiled and Iceland moss, this story
as our German chamomile - not comfortable with, and elderberry, so bring he a sick friend or girl, they
may be blessed by God!

In the year that there were to Christ our dear Lord, born 1358, on the twentieth day the month
of May, I heard, John, the writer, the swallow in the morning, my bedroom window sing and was intimately
edified by the morning song of birds pious, thoughtful on my little bed, as the swallow lives
in perennial joy, against the winter district heating Countries and draws, the home faithful, returns
to the spring, not the man poor mobile students, probably draw little attention to storm and weather
needs of the often not so Fire place, to warm the frozen hands that he fold them in prayer, but
it is seriously my sake, he breathed into it.

Since I was absorbed in such reflections, and the Schwaelblein fortphantasierte on its way I would be almost
asleep again, but blew the attendant at the Muenster: "In sweet Joy is the time ", which I heard
here before, because I was the first time in Strasbourg awakened.

Now I sat up in my little bed, and looked around in my room, and he had but windows all around
and was in a Sommerhaeuslein of the garden. Next was the moon still pale in the sky, and left
the sky was like the purest gold. I found myself between Night and day and folded his hands, and I
found it joyfully on heart, that today my twentieth Birthday was, and how much better I become as in
the past few years, I think dear birthday in the open field in a torn cloak and receive a Morsel
of bread had to host charity. O joy and glory! I thought to myself, looking the morning light
out and said, "You are my light, you'll be my day," also believed almost in my simplicity, the
sky was golden for my best sake, the swallow just sang, me to wish you luck, and the towers have
just blown me so lovely to celebrate, because the sky but just before the red sun that caused the
Lord, as the swallow but Fruehlingslust just sang in God, and the guard just blown to God's
honor, I suppose An hour would have liked to sleep, so it would be him verstattet of the Muensterherren.
So is the man in the light spirited joy, and believe that he was quite the center of all things,
and he was meant by it all. Since I had the merry eyes in the chamber , Wander and saw on the
stool, a new robe lying to me my goods strength Mr. and Knights of Valtellina Tuerlings evening
in the dark who had let up, and could I hold back my desire now no longer, jumped up from
my bed, and laid these clothes are not without tears of gratitude. This was fine but a blue
jacket to folded and lumbar gestutzet, and red and white trousers of cloth laendschem also
Kogel blunt shoe and one black with a blue pen, not to forget a Hemmet house of white linen,
on the neck and sewed colorful gekrauset, like previously I never worn. As it was I almost feel
happy and joyful, and I probably would have like to do a jump, as if i had a new man dressed
with the new dress.

But my pride did not last long, for my torn cloak, which I see as a Curtain had hung over the
window, enlightened by the rising sun, and all its holes were so
many mouths, and all his scraps so many tongues that I am foolish
pride accuse.

It was as if the cloak say to me: "O John, are you a Sun vain merchant that you angelanget, in
the harbor, you forget the torn sail, the thee out in them? John, you're so proud shipwrecked,
the fact that you Board, which bore you with God's help, to a green island, ungrateful to the
foot zurueckstoessest in the waves? O John, you want ungrateful friend, you rescued me not carry
on your shoulders in a house of God and stand as a memory, that God is your compassion? "

Oh,
it probably was hard and true words of my cloak, and I was ashamed to of the window, and laid
it over to my new state, and took it firmly with your hands around the chest, when I wanted to
ask for forgiveness, and went with the idea of ​​the stairs down into the garden: If I was a
poor itinerant students, I will always a poor itinerant students remain, because on earth we
are all poor and have to manifold walk around with our lives, and
learn and yet remain poor student, until the Lord himself our compassion
and our introduceth by his bitter death to eternal life.

Since I had come into the garden, I have not seen before - because my gracious Mr. Ritter was
the evening and arrived late with me and I in the dark in my room been taken - I look in amazement
and the new things around me and could not come to prayer. I found myself from the beautiful
Laubgaengen, ornamental plants and fields and the blooming trees almost as much as ueberraschet
of my new dress.

I found I like a newborn child, who making melody with all that and still can not pray; and fold only
after some experience in the sweetness of life, his hands in gratitude may learn. The blooming
time, the merry singing of the birds, the many young herbs and flowers, who awoke with Taublicken
from the sun, the cool jet, which with a colorful Pebbles and shells designed fountains dancing
seemed to me all so new and wonderful as I would have never seen the like, and I did not know
what will become of all this should.

Just as the little children go through the flowers and they break, and wreaths and wind put in the hands
and dance with the wreaths in the circle, as if even a living Garland, how they are going but not
the fruit in the summer driving, and the harvest rich autumn, and death in the murky, profound
Winter: So I walked too low Rogue like a simple child without humor through the garden and was
against excessive movement about my new luck, which had not yet dreamed
of me yesterday morning, not for the prayers .

Enter

My joyful surprise, but did not last long, for when I ersaettiget my eyes had, it was me as
a hungry, the gesetzet without prayer to a heavy meal is that God blessed him no attention. All
things domestic, well-cared-being of the beautiful ornamental garden filled me with sad thoughts,
and poverty, the loneliness of my own life, I came into this rich environment for the first
right to life before your soul.

What could be sadder than the picture of a beggar, gemalet golden on bottom?

"O my mother," I said to myself, "who was gentle and nice, and finer and nobler than you, who
was worthy to walk among the flowers as you, probably her sister and playmate could be? Were the
Traenlein not on the cheeks as the Tautroepflein on these roses, Do not you walked through the
woods like a breezes through the blossoms, and were not your eyes
true and sweet looking like the blue violets, your lips do not like
the colored rosi Cloves, and flew not your yellow hair like the sunshine?

But you have to go test as Hagar with your Ishmael through the thorns in the desert. Oh, why
was not you so a garden and such a house, and why do you dwell between five boards and two Brettlein
and are your Life does not become even more glad of your death? They gave you no braided wreath.
I but nothing is left but your discipline, and I can not remember in your joy, because I heard
nothing but poverty, and I have no purse, from which I thee the most beautiful Grave could
be built of marble and gold. "

How sad I was there and turned my eyes from all that they most liked and wanted nothing to look at,
because she could not see me because her eyes never with such lawful Lust could quicken. Also,
I had a bitter yet to the soul, that I a knight Son, be without arms or without arms. Tears
filled the eyes of me, and indignation fulfilled my whole body, the gift seemed to burn in the
new guise, and I was drawing my tight, perforated Sun cloak about
me, it tore more.

So I walked, as I search the wilderness for a lonely scruffy parts of the garden, and the moment
I stood in the tall grass under tall lime trees, I could not understand anymore, how this inward
pain and anger is in me came for the first time in my life, and border against the wall of
the garden, I saw the same in a deep bow area Heiligenhaeuslein appropriate,
and in it was a brightly painted carvings wohlvergittert that Adoration
of the Magi in a stable in Bethlehem set.

Before that, I knelt down the grass and prayed with all my heart. As soon melted away in front
of all my pain and my pride the Son of God, who lay naked and poor in a manger in front of me,
and it served the Kings. How I felt ashamed of my unruliness! And since I accused me with tears
had, I thanked the Lord with all my heart that it propelled me, poor students do not forgotten,
and brought me through his mercy to my gracious Lord, and Knight, also praised, and also to
abstain from all pride, and the arts, which I carried his Erlernet assistance with weak senses,
for the increase of His kingdom on earth faithfully apply.

Since I now after such a notable consolation prayers could feel in my heart, I took a guelder knit
band, whereupon the Ave Maria, from my Gebetbuechlein, and hung It langend through the grid
to the image of the Virgin Mary on his arm as the victim of a foolish people, who before her
son found solace in prayer. This band, however, was my dear, I had. A devout nun, my blessed
mother Befreundte had I once for a song that I composed and sung
her, bestowed, and it was at Marburg angeruehret been at St. Elisabethen
grave, but I had been as a leaf pointer broughtest in my Gebetbuechlein.

Then I took off my cloak and rolled it in a long bead and wove it through the upper bars of the
grid before the picture, as a rolled-up curtain, in memory of my time poverty, which by God
in Freud and had changed abundance. Now I turned back to the garden, to me quite different appeared
as before.

Then let nothing stand before the mind of man, all of which are converted to. Now that I had prayed,
seemed all the red, white and flesh-colored flowers those flowers of the garden, converted
by the king Ahasuerus in his palace garden to Suesan, his anger to forget. Yes, I felt as if the Lord
walked through the flowers and had his righteous anger about my unruly here at the loveliness of
his works gesaenftiget, for here on this first morning of my twentieth year I am much light
in the mind worked, and I do the spring became a wise teacher.

I was especially shocked by the high Muensterturm, as I come from a shadowy layers Of trees
stood out and saw him look down over the tops of Nachbarhaeuser on me. I was there in the beginning,
but afraid of him as a Grasmück must be when a giant about the bush opens the nest and looks down on
them. All human work, then it is the usual limits on size or age will be exceeded, has something
frightening to , and you have to spend a long while before we can enjoy it with peace and consolation.

I
have seen this not only at the sight of this giddy high tower, but even with such lovely and fine
works, of which I will mention only the very fine and natural paintings
of the painter Wilhelm in Cologne, which by most as the best champion
respected in all German lands, is because he malet every man of any
shape, as he was alive.

The works of William but I have seen to Cologne, so delicate; fine, sharp and vivid that you
almost would think they were the hands of angels made, and one trembles at the sight, because
they seem to live and not live. It feels as well that the human being and can create something
that is much more glorious his normal existence and creation, and it scares you that this glory
so strange and rare, so probably a lot of rungs on the ladder to this perfection if not missing,
but have to be invisible and we are all well-thrown deep down.

The artificiality of the huge wunderwuerdigen Muensterturms I would have almost defeated again;
as I reflected with amazement, as I still under the tall oak trees, in dark woods, on high mountains,
steep abysses and plunging waterfalls in secluded valleys so in solitude, leaving quite, or perhaps
even sat me hungry and yet not so felt as moved by the sight of this tower. When I use the
leaves and branches of trees look, I do not ask how she came up, and do not be troubled if
they move back and forth with noise, but when I look at this wonderful tower with its many Tuermlein,
columns and scrolls, drive out the increasingly apart and transparent are like the skeleton
of a leaf, then it seems to me the dream of a profound work of master before he himself probably
would scare when he woke up and finished him so in front of the Sky project recipients considered,
unless he fell on his face and exclaimed: "Lord, this work is not
by me in its perfection, you've bedienet only my hands, mine is nothing
to it as the flaws, but this blanket with the mantle of your love,
and let them disappear into the secret of your crowd.

" But no, this probably erlebet, no has such a work of his invention, the crown aufgesetzet, entire families
are came down the scaffolding and have to sleep in the graves to the feet of the tower down, knows
nothing of it, and stands seriously and stone, which no heart and no brains has, indeed is actually
a quite unreasonable tower, and yet stands, as he would be off themselves have grown and need
it to thank anyone. This massive expression of grandeur, but in such a work, in which the wisdom
and effort and devotion of centuries of endless lines of the law of the ratio, the need and the
ornamental with neck-breaking boldness hinangeklommen to sing praises to the Lord on the top,
combined with his real inner death, so that he, all through his life in the deepest heart touch
them, but mitempfindet nothing about it, that's what his vision and the appearance all mighty works
of men a scare beimischet. It is as if he ask: What am I, and why am I and what is it that you
then touch them in me? What we can but it other answer than: The works of the Lord are incomprehensible,
he drives us to build and about creating the life beyond, because we were immortal and perfect,
and we fell in death by sin, but you stand the tower, as a witness, that we feel dark, which
we were before that time, and that we are still struggling to infinite target, so you then stand
as a carrier of our effort and our coaches in honor of our Redeemer and Saviour Jesus Christ
has redeemed us through His bitter suffering and death. Amen.

So I thought to myself, and although surrounded by living trees and flowers, in which, and even
in the hard rock, to live a soul seems that breathes with the people and feel them, rejoices
with him in the spring, and winter is mourning with him, I could my eyes do not turn away
from the tower. The sense of the people and strive always to the incomprehensible, as there is
the goal of the career and the keys of heaven, can admire the Man alone, and all admiration pathogen
is a messenger of God, who exhorts us to the light, we lost and we have once again promised by the
blood of Christ, which we sharers do. So I am also always seemed to all my tribulations as a desire
for a better life, and all my hours were only the bitter cold, storming Days of winter, where
the sweet spring, dressed with flowers and singing follows,, I SAEE good seed and fill my
soul with the glory of God.

In these reflections I wanted to go after the Sommerhaeuslein, but saw my gracious Mr. Ritter
and even profound, with folded hands under a tree sitting in the sunshine, and could not, vorueberzugehen
him so I did not bother him. I asked myself a question In his modestly close to the canopy,
and my beret was in the hands, waiting for whether he should turn
his eyes perhaps for me.

The sight of my Lord awoke a great reverence in me. I had him yesterday not rather seen as it
was getting dark, he took me along the way to be merciful. He had a snow-white hair on the head and beard,
and well-liked much about him flew be. I remembered that he had never seen such a pious old
knight, with his serious and mild countenance such confidence in my heart sank. God grant that I
So in honor may be gray! I thought to myself, and was drawn to the heart and soul dear lord drawn.
But he seemed very sad, sighed often and deeply, and the little birds that sang about him in
the tree so funny, could not console him.

Since I was so taken a while to see him, he turned his eyes to the
place by chance, where I stood, and spoke to me kindly, saying: "How
you is John, that you stand there so still, "To which I replied:"
I did not want to disturb your peace, Lord,? It seems to me in serious
thought.

"

The knight said then: "John, how you like your new home, are you satisfied with me? "

As I said, "Lord, I should be glad I do not sleep now know where and
where bread? find and who serve the Lord's sake, because I know now,
who love who would like to thank except God, and who pray except for
me.

Sir, I like my new home well, and God admit that I probably also liked it, and am worthy of
her. "smiled the Knights and said: "John, if you are serious about your words, so we will be
good companions because I like your speech well. But what do you want, probably fallen to me,
what do you want me Card, because you have nothing? "

To which I replied: "Sir, I remain your debtor to the world, for you I can not Doublet give for
the doublet, which I carry through your grace, but before God I'll give you a good numbers
man, because to him, I give you my heart. "

Since the Knight replied jokingly: "If I wanted to give my heart for the yours, I still retained
the benefits vest, or how then, John "
 On Sundays,
after we had washed the salt bags, and done other work required of us, we went into the bush
and cut the long soft grass, of which we made trusses for our legs and feet to rest upon, for
they were so full of the salt boils that we could get no rest lying upon the bare boards.

Though we worked from morning till night, there was no satisfying Mr. D----. I hoped, when
I left Capt. I----, that I should have been better off, but I found it was but going from one
butcher to another. There was this difference between them: my former master used to beat me
while raging and foaming with passion; Mr. D---- was usually quite calm. He would stand by
and give orders for a slave to be cruelly whipped, and assist in the punishment, without moving
a muscle of his face; walking about and taking snuff with the greatest composure. Nothing could
touch his hard heart--neither sighs, nor tears, nor prayers, nor streaming blood; he was deaf
to our cries, and careless of our sufferings. Mr. D---- has often stripped me naked, hung me
up by the wrists, and beat me with the cow-skin, with his own hand, till my body was raw with
gashes. Yet there was nothing very remarkable in this; for it might serve as a sample of the
common usage of the slaves on that horrible island.

Owing to the boils in my feet, I was unable to wheel the barrow fast through the sand, which
got into the sores, and made me stumble at every step; and my master, having no pity for my
sufferings from this cause, rendered them far more intolerable, by chastising me for not being
able to move so fast as he wished me. Another of our employments was to row a little way off
from the shore in a boat, and dive for large stones to build a wall round our master's house.
This was very hard work; and the great waves breaking over us continually, made us often so
giddy that we lost our footing, and were in danger of being drowned.

Ah, poor me!--my tasks were never ended. Sick or well, it was work--work--work!--After the
diving season was over, we were sent to the South Creek, with large bills, to cut up mangoes
to burn lime with. Whilst one party of slaves were thus employed, another were sent to the
other side of the island to break up coral out of the sea.

When we were ill, let our complaint be what it might, the only medicine given to us was a great
bowl of hot salt water, with salt mixed with it, which made us very sick. If we could not keep
up with the rest of the gang of slaves, we were put in the stocks, and severely flogged the
next morning. Yet, not the less, our master expected, after we had thus been kept from our
rest, and our limbs rendered stiff and sore with ill usage, that we should still go through
the ordinary tasks of the day all the same.--Sometimes we had to work all night, measuring
salt to load a vessel; or turning a machine to draw water out of the sea for the salt-making.
Then we had no sleep--no rest--but were forced to work as fast as we could, and go on again
all next day the same as usual. Work--work--work--Oh that Turk's Island was a horrible place!
The people in England, I am sure, have never found out what is carried on there. Cruel, horrible
place!

Mr. D---- had a slave called old Daniel, whom he used to treat in the most cruel manner. Poor
Daniel was lame in the hip, and could not keep up with the rest of the slaves; and our master
would order him to be stripped and laid down on the ground, and have him beaten with a rod
of rough briar till his skin was quite red and raw. He would then call for a bucket of salt,
and fling upon the raw flesh till the man writhed on the ground like a worm, and screamed aloud
with agony. This poor man's wounds were never healed, and I have often seen them full of maggots,
which increased his torments to an intolerable degree. He was an object of pity and terror
to the whole gang of slaves, and in his wretched case we saw, each of us, our own lot, if we
should live to be as old.

Oh the horrors of slavery!--How the thought of it pains my heart! But the truth ought to be
told of it; and what my eyes have seen I think it is my duty to relate; for few people in England
know what slavery is. I have been a slave--I have felt what a slave feels, and I know what
a slave knows; and I would have all the good people in England to know it too, that they may
break our chains, and set us free.

Mr. D---- had another slave called Ben. He being very hungry, stole a little rice one night
after he came in from work, and cooked it for his supper. But his master soon discovered the
theft; locked him up all night; and kept him without food till one o'clock the next day. He
then hung Ben up by his hands, and beat him from time to time till the slaves came in at night.
We found the poor creature hung up when we came home; with a pool of blood beneath him, and
our master still licking him. But this was not the worst. My master's son was in the habit
of stealing the rice and rum. Ben had seen him do this, and thought he might do the same, and
when master found out that Ben had stolen the rice and swore to punish him, he tried to excuse
himself by saying that Master Dickey did the same thing every night. The lad denied it to his
father, and was so angry with Ben for informing against him, that out of revenge he ran and
got a bayonet, and whilst the poor wretch was suspended by his hands and writhing under his
wounds, he run it quite through his foot. I was not by when he did it, but I saw the wound
when I came home, and heard Ben tell the manner in which it was done.

I must say something more about this cruel son of a cruel father.--He had no heart--no fear
of God; he had been brought up by a bad father in a bad path, and he delighted to follow in
the same steps. There was a little old woman among the slaves called Sarah, who was nearly
past work; and, Master Dickey being the overseer of the slaves just then, this poor creature,
who was subject to several bodily infirmities, and was not quite right in her head, did not
wheel the barrow fast enough to please him. He threw her down on the ground, and after beating
her severely, he took her up in his arms and flung her among the prickly-pear bushes, which
are all covered over with sharp venomous prickles. By this her naked flesh was so grievously
wounded, that her body swelled and festered all over, and she died a few days after. In telling
my own sorrows, I cannot pass by those of my fellow-slaves--for when I think of my own griefs,
I remember theirs.

I think it was about ten years I had worked in the salt ponds at Turk's Island, when my master
left off business, and retired to a house he had in Bermuda, leaving his son to succeed him
in the island. He took me with him to wait upon his daughters; and I was joyful, for I was
sick, sick of Turk's Island, and my heart yearned to see my native place again, my mother,
and my kindred.

I had seen my poor mother during the time I was a slave in Turk's Island. One Sunday morning
I was on the beach with some of the slaves, and we saw a sloop come in loaded with slaves to
work in the salt water. We got a boat and went aboard. When I came upon the deck I asked the
black people, "Is there any one here for me?" "Yes," they said, "your mother." I thought they
said this in jest--I could scarcely believe them for joy; but when I saw my poor mammy my joy
was turned to sorrow, for she had gone from her senses. "Mammy," I said, "is this you?" She
did not know me. "Mammy," I said, "what's the matter?" She began to talk foolishly, and said
that she had been under the vessel's bottom. They had been overtaken by a violent storm at
sea. My poor mother had never been on the sea before, and she was so ill, that she lost her
senses, and it was long before she came quite to herself again. She had a sweet child with
her--a little sister I had never seen, about four years of age, called Rebecca. I took her
on shore with me, for I felt I should love her directly; and I kept her with me a week. Poor
little thing! her's has been a sad life, and continues so to this day. My mother worked for
some years on the island, but was taken back to Bermuda some time before my master carried
me again thither.[7]

[Footnote 7: Of the subsequent lot of her relatives she can tell but little. She says, her
father died while she and her mother were at Turk's Island; and that he had been long dead
and buried before any of his children in Bermuda knew of it, they being slaves on other estates.
Her mother died after Mary went to Antigua. Of the fate of the rest of her kindred, seven brothers
and three sisters, she knows nothing further than this--that the eldest sister, who had several
children to her master, was taken by him to Trinidad; and that the youngest, Rebecca, is still
alive, and in slavery in Bermuda. Mary herself is now about forty-three years of age.--Ed.]

After I left Turk's Island, I was told by some negroes that came over from it, that the poor
slaves had built up a place with boughs and leaves, where they might meet for prayers, but
the white people pulled it down twice, and would not allow them even a shed for prayers. A
flood came down soon after and washed away many houses, filled the place with sand, and overflowed
the ponds: and I do think that this was for their wickedness; for the Buckra men[8] there were
very wicked. I saw and heard much that was very very bad at that place.

[Footnote 8: Negro term for white people.]

I was several years the slave of Mr. D---- after I returned to my native place. Here I worked
in the grounds. My work was planting and hoeing sweet-potatoes, Indian corn, plantains, bananas,
cabbages, pumpkins, onions, &c. I did all the household work, and attended upon a horse and
cow besides,--going also upon all errands. I had to curry the horse--to clean and feed him--and
sometimes to ride him a little. I had more than enough to do--but still it was not so very
bad as Turk's Island.

My old master often got drunk, and then he would get in a fury with his daughter, and beat
her till she was not fit to be seen. I remember on one occasion, I had gone to fetch water,
and when I Was coming up the hill I heard a great screaming; I ran as fast as I could to the
house, put down the water, and went into the chamber, where I found my master beating Miss
D---- dreadfully. I strove with all my strength to get her away from him; for she was all black
and blue with bruises. He had beat her with his fist, and almost killed her. The people gave
me credit for getting her away. He turned round and began to lick me. Then I said, "Sir, this
is not Turk's Island." I can't repeat his answer, the words were too wicked--too bad to say.
He wanted to treat me the same in Bermuda as he had done in Turk's Island.

He had an ugly fashion of stripping himself quite naked, and ordering me then to wash him in
a tub of water. This was worse to me than all the licks. Sometimes when he called me to wash
him I would not come, my eyes were so full of shame. He would then come to beat me. One time
I had plates and knives in my hand, and I dropped both plates and knives, and some of the plates
were broken. He struck me so severely for this, that at last I defended myself, for I thought
it was high time to do so. I then told him I would not live longer with him, for he was a very
indecent man--very spiteful, and too indecent; with no shame for his servants, no shame for
his own flesh. So I went away to a neighbouring house and sat down and cried till the next
morning, when I went home again, not knowing what else to do.

After that I was hired to work at Cedar Hills, and every Saturday night I paid the money to
my master. I had plenty of work to do there--plenty of washing; but yet I made myself pretty
comfortable. I earned two dollars and a quarter a week, which is twenty pence a day.

During the time I worked there, I heard that Mr. John Wood was going to Antigua. I felt a great
wish to go there, and I went to Mr. D----, and asked him to let me go in Mr. Wood's service.
Mr. Wood did not then want to purchase me; it was my own fault that I came under him, I was
so anxious to go. It was ordained to be, I suppose; God led me there. The truth is, I did not
wish to be any longer the slave of my indecent master.

Mr. Wood took me with him to Antigua, to the town of St. John's, where he lived. This was about
fifteen years ago. He did not then know whether I was to be sold; but Mrs. Wood found that
I could work, and she wanted to buy me. Her husband then wrote to my master to inquire whether
I was to be sold? Mr. D---- wrote in reply, "that I should not be sold to any one that would
treat me ill." It was strange he should say this, when he had treated me so ill himself. So
I was purchased by Mr. Wood for 300 dollars, (or £100 Bermuda currency.)[9]

[Footnote 9: About £67. 10s. sterling.]

My work there was to attend the chambers and nurse the child, and to go down to the pond and
wash clothes. But I soon fell ill of the rheumatism, and grew so very lame that I was forced
to walk with a stick. I got the Saint Anthony's fire, also, in my left leg, and became quite
a cripple. No one cared much to come near me, and I was ill a long long time; for several months
I could not lift the limb. I had to lie in a little old out-house, that was swarming with bugs
and other vermin, which tormented me greatly; but I had no other place to lie in. I got the
rheumatism by catching cold at the pond side, from washing in the fresh water; in the salt
water I never got cold. The person who lived in next yard, (a Mrs. Greene,) could not bear
to hear my cries and groans. She was kind, and used to send an old slave woman to help me,
who sometimes brought me a little soup. When the doctor found I was so ill, he said I must
be put into a bath of hot water. The old slave got the bark of some bush that was good for
the pains, which she boiled in the hot water, and every night she came and put me into the
bath, and did what she could for me: I don't know what I should have done, or what would have
become of me, had it not been for her.--My mistress, it is true, did send me a little food;
but no one from our family came near me but the cook, who used to shove my food in at the door,
and say, "Molly, Molly, there's your dinner." My mistress did not care to take any trouble
about me; and if the Lord had not put it into the hearts of the neighbours to be kind to me,
I must, I really think, have lain and died.

It was a long time before I got well enough to work in the house. Mrs. Wood, in the meanwhile,
hired a mulatto woman to nurse the child; but she was such a fine lady she wanted to be mistress
over me. I thought it very hard for a coloured woman to have rule over me because I was a slave
and she was free. Her name was Martha Wilcox; she was a saucy woman, very saucy; and she went
and complained of me, without cause, to my mistress, and made her angry with me. Mrs. Wood
told me that if I did not mind what I was about, she would get my master to strip me and give
me fifty lashes: "You have been used to the whip," she said, "and you shall have it here."
This was the first time she threatened to have me flogged; and she gave me the threatening
so strong of what she would have done to me, that I thought I should have fallen down at her
feet, I was so vexed and hurt by her words. The mulatto woman was rejoiced to have power to
keep me down. She was constantly making mischief; there was no living for the slaves--no peace
after she came.

I was also sent by Mrs. Wood to be put in the Cage one night, and was next morning flogged,
by the magistrate's order, at her desire; and this all for a quarrel I had about a pig with
another slave woman. I was flogged on my naked back on this occasion: although I was in no
fault after all; for old Justice Dyett, when we came before him, said that I was in the right,
and ordered the pig to be given to me. This was about two or three years after I came to Antigua.

When we moved from the middle of the town to the Point, I used to be in the house and do all
the work and mind the children, though still very ill with the rheumatism. Every week I had
to wash two large bundles of clothes, as much as a boy could help me to lift; but I could give
no satisfaction. My mistress was always abusing and fretting after me. It is not possible to
tell all her ill language.--One day she followed me foot after foot scolding and rating me.
I bore in silence a great deal of ill words: at last my heart was quite full, and I told her
that she ought not to use me so;--that when I was ill I might have lain and died for what she
cared; and no one would then come near me to nurse me, because they were afraid of my mistress.
This was a great affront. She called her husband and told him what I had said. He flew into
a passion: but did not beat me then; he only abused and swore at me; and then gave me a note
and bade me go and look for an owner. Not that he meant to sell me; but he did this to please
his wife and to frighten me. I went to Adam White, a cooper, a free black, who had money, and
asked him to buy me. He went directly to Mr. Wood, but was informed that I was not to be sold.
The next day my master whipped me.

Another time (about five years ago) my mistress got vexed with me, because I fell sick and
I could not keep on with my work. She complained to her husband, and he sent me off again to
look for an owner. I went to a Mr. Burchell, showed him the note, and asked him to buy me for
my own benefit; for I had saved about 100 dollars, and hoped, with a little help, to purchase
my freedom. He accordingly went to my master:--"Mr. Wood," he said, "Molly has brought me a
note that she wants an owner. If you intend to sell her, I may as well buy her as another."
My master put him off and said that he did not mean to sell me. I was very sorry at this, for
I had no comfort with Mrs. Wood, and I wished greatly to get my freedom.

The way in which I made my money was this.--When my master and mistress went from home, as
they sometimes did, and left me to take care of the house and premises, I had a good deal of
time to myself, and made the most of it. I took in washing, and sold coffee and yams and other
provisions to the captains of ships. I did not sit still idling during the absence of my owners;
for I wanted, by all honest means, to earn money to buy my freedom. Sometimes I bought a hog
cheap on board ship, and sold it for double the money on shore; and I also earned a good deal
by selling coffee. By this means I by degrees acquired a little cash. A gentleman also lent
me some to help to buy my freedom--but when I could not get free he got it back again. His
name was Captain Abbot.

My master and mistress went on one occasion into the country, to Date Hill, for change of air,
and carried me with them to take charge of the children, and to do the work of the house. While
I was in the country, I saw how the field negroes are worked in Antigua. They are worked very
hard and fed but scantily. They are called out to work before daybreak, and come home after
dark; and then each has to heave his bundle of grass for the cattle in the pen. Then, on Sunday
morning, each slave has to go out and gather a large bundle of grass; and, when they bring
it home, they have all to sit at the manager's door and wait till he come out: often have they
to wait there till past eleven o'clock, without any breakfast. After that, those that have
yams or potatoes, or fire-wood to sell, hasten to market to buy a dog's worth[10] of salt fish,
or pork, which is a great treat for them. Some of them buy a little pickle out of the shad
barrels, which they call sauce, to season their yams and Indian corn. It is very wrong, I know,
to work on Sunday or go to market; but will not God call the Buckra men to answer for this
on the great day of judgment--since they will give the slaves no other day? Since I was infinitely good, and my desire, they not to
tire, was so fervently believing that I felt, I do not get tired, and, playing with her hair,
said to her: "Dear Mother, I am not quite easy for me? as I dream, I was flying. "She did not
answer but, as with a tender pressure of her Arms, and I began to weave their hair in braids that
her playing the wind does not difficult subject like, and they left with a friendly incline
of her head you're welcome. Since I was done, however, and hintrug me through the forest under the
trees, I broke a green oak branch from wall to him in a wreath, and put it to her on the head
with the words: "Dear Mother, now you're adorned like the kneeling knight in St. Joergen chapel,
now have you on a Kraenzlein, and if he would now meet us walked through the forest, would you
both enjoy each other very well over the beautiful wreaths? "My mother, however, did not answer and
went away sad, which I was also sad.

So we moved quietly and alone for about an hour through the dense forest as if we were the
only people in the world, and not had much joy. Now there was light in the branches, and the
forest ended against the edge of the mountain, in the lonely Lahntal lowered, where the mother kissed
me and left me to the ground. But we were on a forest green meadow, which was refreshed a fresh
spring, with the roundabout at the manifold broken Depended on the Lahn hastened down. Where we stood,
the area was soft and mild, a great old pear tree hung heavy all yellow pears, and round him
were several Vogelbeerbaeume, the fire-colored fruits with their fun against the dark woods contrasted,
also limited and cut through the square many Fruchtstraeucher, Haselbuesche, St. John's - and Klosterbeerstraeucher,
and I had to break the abundance and enjoy. Against us over the area appeared seriously. The Lahn Valley closes,
seen from this point, the level of the river with a Manifold as a deep lake, and the mountains
were, covered with dark woods, strictly and dark about this here, as they had deep thoughts about
suffering that happened here. The mother was silent and looked calmly into the area, but I had
the cover of the Basket made, cover them with wide Haselnussblaettern and collected with anxious Diligence,
the most beautiful blackberries and raspberries, and whatever else to delicious Traeublein to
abundant harvest is offered. Between work, I often looked at her, looked with Joy, as to cheer
the sight of her face seemed to area, and when I harvest my offered her, she smiled sweetly,
I ran his hand over his forehead and said, "Schoenen Thanks, John, you're a good kid. "

Then they led me right to the thicket, where, after a few steps in front of a small abandoned hut stood,
and the ivy had overgrown the free walls, and even the closed Tuer
moved with his grid.

The mother took me to an old juniper tree in the height, stood by the door, and I had made a
hole in it had a key To pick with which it opens the door unlocked after I had helped her, the ivy
gently abzuloesen without tearing them from the door. Well, we went through a small geraetlose
kitchen into a quadrangular room. I stepped into it with reluctance, for the few rays who fell
through the closed shutters, showed me all sorts of big birds the walls in an uncertain light.
My mother, however, immediately met with a shutter, and as they looked to the other side of the
Lahn valley, where the old Lauren Burger Palace in black Mountain Forest protruded. On the walls
of the small room I looked at the walled deer antlers many stuffed birds attached, and especially
a number of old hawks, also rejected and hung many hunting equipment, crossbows, spears, nets,
etc., into beautiful order a simple prayer-stool that stood before the carved wooden image of St.
Hubertus. Since St. Hubertus was illustrated as he kneels in front of a deer, of him with a cross
between the antlers opposed to the hunt, as he stirred the Lord his wild heart. I considered all
these things that I saw never before, with anxious amazement, while my Mother, sitting on
a wooden chair, looked out the window shut after Lauren Castle. Everything that I had encountered
since last evening, had the consequence of the usual quiet impressions in my heart broken, and
if I remember back now, I would like my former Feeling well compare the feeling of a wheel
when it suddenly came to life in the mill and could be seen as himself and all the other wheels
turn round to him, without having to imagine it can equal what it really self and the other wheels
are, and what ever is a mill. Especially me but it seemed strange that my Mother was very familiar
with all the appliances of the hut, and metallurgical acted as would be they always have been
in it, so I asked them, saying: "Dear mother, we now remain here, this is our little house? Then
I want us to build a little garden and a . Fowler be "Then she said kindly," What do you want to
do with the birds "? whereupon I said: "I will teach them to pray the Our Father." Then she
asked: "Do you know where your father is "And I answered:". In heaven, "They took me to her,
and I had sit down at their feet, and she told me ohngefaehr what I continue here write them.

Although
I like all their kind words, now that I am an adult, not quite can really know, but it would
not have gelautet much different, because I've everything in sharp focus the mind, and I can
often tell from her again, so that may be rather too much than too little here. She said, "Dear John,
do you I have seen since yesterday probably sadder than ever, because I thought yesterday, as
the work completed, was already about how I would go today, all the ways that you go with me are.
You got me last night and asked why I am crying as I before thy little stood, but I have given
you an answer, but prayed only with you, so we quietly would like
to sleep.

But now I will tell you much, because I think it is you pious, if you know early how on earth
is much sadness, and in heaven, but the Joy that we earn through unwavering loyalty and strength
in the earthly sorrow alone . Can You will be then contact your senses more and more to God,
and you lead by His angels on earth, faith in Jesus, the hope of Jesus and the love of Jesus,
their playmates are the simplicity, humility, innocence and truth. And do do not be sad for
the sake of suffering, which will meet you on earth, no, just your and all the guilt, that the
suffering is punishment. And do not mourn for your pain, but only to the sufferings of your
Christ on the Cross, where he died like an innocent Lamb, then takes the blame for the world
and this reconciliation thou shalt turn up, and firmly believe in it and hope for them, and
you get pure from all sin, so that you do not again defile your soul, which is your Jesus,
your Savior, your Savior, your God you have washed in with his holy blood, then your faith,
your trust everything Suffering to grow, and you will win you a joyful heart to your God who
brought you created in the Father, the Son redeemed and sanctified in the Holy Spirit. "

As my late mother, the beautiful Lauren Burger Els, in the little house of my late Grandfather
of the fowler Kilian, has told the Hirzentreu of himself and the dear grandfather

This mountain is called the height Hirzentreu, and this little house, where we sit, belonged
to my dear late father, the fowler Kilian, the one far and wide only the good Kilian Falk
and called the pious master. He has gone to God ten years ago, and is buried in the churchyard
to Kloster Arnstein. He was born to Kitzing francs, and has this little house here even edified,
because as a hawker of the Count of Nassau, my blessed Mother, a hunter left behind an orphan,
chose as his wife, and here with it settled.

It also stands out in the garden or the tree, on which my father, my Mother for the first
time seen, because he saved her life, because when my father a deer
pursued, the enraged animal was here my mother, who as a poor little
girl herbs Men gathered for the monastery in Arnstein, and took the
deer in his wrath my mother on the antlers.

My father, who saw this herzulaufend, shot a pipe from his crossbow for the deer, and found him
not without danger of my mother in the right eye, and the wounded Animal kicked him, blinded,
now expect to grade, because my father took a good courage, and crack his half-dead princess of the
antlers, laid under that tree and was refreshed to them the stream that arises here. When
she had recovered, they saw to their great Wonder that the deer was standing beside them in the
bushes, and sometimes with pain, the main swung back and forth, now sadly reduced to earth.
Since my blood stirred the niederrinnende good father, he went to the suffering animals drew him
to bolt from the eye, and washed his Wound with water, which let all the stag done quietly. But
when my father the terrified maiden to Kloster Arnstein, accompanied them, the deer ran through
the whole forest to see what did they both have their talks on a bigger and confidentiality was.
Kloster Arnstein before they shook hands and parted with the mutual Insurance, to live together
in Christian marriage.

Now, my father was away from its noble services, built with the permission of Men's monastery
this hut, and this caused my mother Agnes, beloved as his wife, inside. The deer was good through
the Help there, which made him my father, have become so mild and tame, that he was always there
to help him when he built his cabin here with the mother. My Father used to always sick of the
deer eye, which healed quickly, but was blind. Afterwards, when my parents lived here, the deer
was always kind to them, and I know quite well that he, when we ate, put his head in the window
here, and I as a child gave him bread. Tens one but my father heard him violently in the night
scream, and then he got up with the mother, and she went out to see what the good animals was missing.
But he was fighting with other deer, which he his blind eye because of superiority were injured
so badly that he died at daybreak to the feet of my parents.

We cried for him, as a faithful and grateful friend, and my father has him under the same tree
where he buried his shot, but his antlers attached to the tree so that it is adherent to eternal
memory in the same view, yet, and my father this hut because of the faithful called Hirzentreu
deer.

My dear mother died too soon, and I was still such a small girl, that I did not know what death
is. I remember quite well that I am on their Bette sat when she was sick and you fought the
flies and their prayers and all the little Proverbs, they taught me vorsagte, and my father
was on hand to care for, so much It predicts a child. Since I often, when my mother tried Arzneikraeuter,
with its forest had been, and they told me it had all sorts of powers of recuperation of the plants,
so was my Soul at that time so filled with the desire to help her, that I propose a least in
the night collapsing days in the forest ran out to find her some herbs, of which I had dreamed.
I walked around and looked long with indescribable fear the herbs, to which I have not seen
me before remembered. Already the sun was high in the sky, and I had strayed far from our hut,
but I forgot, with desire, the medicinal herb to find my hunger,
and when I knelt down at last in great fatigue, and with tears to
the dear child Jesus prayed, I may yet help to find the herb that
I wanted him give my bread, I'm over it asleep from fatigue.

After a few hours awake I saw a beautiful and noble woman in front of me, a servant led her
horse on which Soehnlein sat her, and she was staying, as they tell me so alone in the wild forest
are saw. She asked me who I was and I told her I was from the fowler Els Hirzentreu, this morning
and expected a little herb to search for the sick mother, she kissed me and said that she wanted
me to go home with him to the castle Lauren because she was the housewife the old Lauren Burgers,
your Grandmother, from there she would tell me about the Lahn to the Hirzentreu can bring. She
sat down now on the horse and took me right to the horse's neck; But her Soehnlein, Joerg, sat
behind her and she had to include the poor.

So we went a little way down to the Lahn valley, and I had almost forgotten everything; for riding,
the foreign woman and her little son, the many little songs sang to her, preoccupied with my
soul. But the hunger began to push me, and I noticed with Wines that I did not find my bread in
my pocket. Since I asked the lady: "Els, what are you crying?" and I told her: "I am hungry, because
I have the baby Jesus my bread given, and get the herb from him, but now I've lost the herb and
am hungry ", and I am strong desire that she should let me back into the forest, the herb to
search. I had to describe the noble wife of the herb, however, because I knew his name not.
Then she suddenly said: "My dear child, you've probably dreamed of, but the mercy God is great, for,
lo, my servant, wears such a herb in a damp cloth wrapped in his Wadsworth on the back, but this
herb does not grow in this country, but have I do in the monastery of Arnstein, where I was a confession,
obtained from the Gaertner, who is from a has priests from foreign lands beyond the sea. "As the servant
had the opening Wadsworth, and lo and behold, it was the same herb in it that I saw in a dream.
My joy was ineffable, and the good noble woman told the servants,
once the weed my father to bring, and to tell him how I looked, and
how the lady with me after the Lauren Castle taken.

The servant knew my father very well and was pleased to observe the forest lands according to our
lodge to. Now the lady rode with me and her little son alone to completely Lahn and down at a
shallow point across to the Lauren Castle, where the servant soon also came and me here on
the boat brought back to my parents. The good noblewoman had shown me a lot of love and gave
me a pot with old wine, and some Tonic Gewuerzkuechlein for the sick mother, and promised to
visit them even tomorrow. Your Soehnlein but that was not present when I left the castle Lauren
came up to me Water running after and gave me a whole Rosmarienstock, he pulled out his little garden,
and said, "You little one, the alternative to your mother's bed, which is a good Ruch when sick
is. Elslein, come again! "Then he gave me his hand, and we parted.

When we arrived at Hirzentreu, I carried my father on the mother's bed, the embracing me and
said, "Els, I do not live all day and not die skilfully out of concern that Seist you lost, but
God has comforted me wonderfully through what happened and has I cooked your father of the herb
a potion that restores me wonderful. "There was I Rosmarienstock the father, who planted it
in a nice new mug next to the mother Deposit, and then took leave of the servants, after the
wine and the Wuerzkuechlein Father given.

It was now evening about it, my father gave the mother, nor of the wines and spices, and she was
so strengthened that they quietly the evening hymn to the Father with great devotion singing
along, which I slept with her feet on her bed. Toward morning, however, aroused my father
and told me with tears: "Wake up dear, Elslein, and look for her mother, and give her what she asks,
she's even sick, and I want to go to Kloster Arnstein the last holy Viaticum for them. Keep
yourself quiet, so she sleeps, and pray quietly, and they demanded it, hand her a drink, and
look for the burning pine logs in Fireplace that no accident occurs. "Then he went to his mother, wiped
her face and the said, "God preserve you, dear Agnes, to escort Christian, I go to Kloster Arnstein;
? O is like you, dear Agnes, "but his mother said:" I put my sick
child as a main in the lap of the one who said, "I will comfort you
as one whom his mother," and I have the confidence that he will let
me depart with full consolation from you, so go then down, and bring
me the last consolation, "As they kissed his father and went away.

I was talking quietly at the feet of the bed, "Mother, may I come to you?" Then she said: "Yes,
dear little Else, but only to get up and bring me the little cross in my chest, I very longs
after that. "Quickly I rushed to the chest, but the lid was so heavy I could not raise him, I complained
the mother, who said, "little Else, the prayerful! you put the herb, which refreshed me so,
you will also help to open the chest, so you trust him.

"I fell in front of the chest on his knees and prayed, Jesus let me the chest open, and God
had mercy on me, I have the chest open with a small effort and the mother brought the little cross.
It is the same, which is still in Polsnich at my Bette hangs, and our chest is also home to
the same chest. The mother took the cross in her folded hands and kissed it and pressed it to
her heart, and I put to her on the main pad and pressed my cheek against hers. She did not
speak, she whispered praying, and so I fell asleep but soon woke me loud words from her, and I
heard say, "Hueter, the night is out nearly as good friend who's me Be strong fear??! Do not!
Lord, you are there, so I come to you on the hot water, "and after these Words, she moved with
difficulty in a dream. I did not understand, and woke her with kisses: "Dear mother, the demands
of your heart?" Then she opened her eyes and said: "O my Jesus, I'm not with you! Elslein, my
child say, you've seen the dear Saviour, where did he go? "I did not understand her, and sought
the little cross in the bed, the her hands had slipped, and put it back into the hands of her
with the words "heart mother .

There is the dear Saviour "Then she kissed the cross again, and then said," Elslein I was on
alone on a boat on a large water a long, long night, no stars, and longed for the day and at
last I saw a little star that ran softly on the water like a monitor due to the corridor,
and I cried with all his might, "Hueter, what of the night ? There "and the star replied:" When
the morning comes already, but it shall be night; if you ever ask, and you will still come back
and ask again. "As it came to I paced about the waves, and I saw that it was a solitary figure.
As I said: "Who's there?" and she replied: "Good friend!" Oh, there was my heart so full of
joy, and I thought: Can it really be my Jesus? And he said, "Be easy, it's me, be afraid not,
"and I said," Lord, you are there, so I come to you on the hot water, "Da. He beckoned me, and
I stepped out of the boat on the water, but could not reach the Lord, the herschwebte before
me, like a cloud or a shadow, and if I really courageous and eager for him was done, and quite
believed that he was certain that he have mercy on me and Elias would call a car from the sky,
I put into it to him and to the heavenly Paradise will go, oh, because he was so close, so close that
I have the breath of bliss felt, and then suddenly came a wave and a wind rose, and I fainted
and believed to be sinking on the water, and as my concern grew, the faded image of the Lord before
me in the distance, yes, it was back to the lonely star I first saw, and also disappeared. Since
I was all alone on the water, and drove the boat to me, I saw you sit on it and cry for me,
and I walked with difficulty, to you, and sat with you in the boat, and hugged you, and you
slept in my arms.
 But when they go to the West Indies, they forget
God and all feeling of shame, I think, since they can see and do such things. They tie up slaves
like hogs--moor[18] them up like cattle, and they lick them, so as hogs, or cattle, or horses
never were flogged;--and yet they come home and say, and make some good people believe, that
slaves don't want to get out of slavery. But they put a cloak about the truth. It is not so.
All slaves want to be free--to be free is very sweet. I will say the truth to English people
who may read this history that my good friend, Miss S----, is now writing down for me. I have
been a slave myself--I know what slaves feel--I can tell by myself what other slaves feel,
and by what they have told me. The man that says slaves be quite happy in slavery--that they
don't want to be free--that man is either ignorant or a lying person. I never heard a slave
say so. I never heard a Buckra man say so, till I heard tell of it in England. Such people
ought to be ashamed of themselves. They can't do without slaves, they say. What's the reason
they can't do without slaves as well as in England? No slaves here--no whips--no stocks--no
punishment, except for wicked people. They hire servants in England; and if they don't like
them, they send them away: they can't lick them. Let them work ever so hard in England, they
are far better off than slaves. If they get a bad master, they give warning and go hire to
another. They have their liberty. That's just what we want. We don't mind hard work, if we
had proper treatment, and proper wages like English servants, and proper time given in the
week to keep us from breaking the Sabbath. They usually did every morning,
for I then sprinkled their food, but today I did not have the courage, and thought: Oh, there
the dove comes on, which will take the mother, but I do not her to say goodbye difficult to make.
 This is slavery. I tell it, to let English people know the truth; and I hope
they will never leave off to pray God, and call loud to the great King of England, till all
the poor blacks be given free, and slavery done up for evermore.

[Footnote 16: The whole of this paragraph especially, is given as nearly as was possible in
Mary's precise words.]

[Footnote 17: She means West Indians.]

[Footnote 18: A West Indian phrase: to fasten or tie up.]

SUPPLEMENT

TO THE

HISTORY OF MARY PRINCE.

BY THE EDITOR.

Leaving Mary's narrative, for the present, without comment to the reader's reflections, I proceed
to state some circumstances connected with her case which have fallen more particularly under
my own notice, and which I consider it incumbent now to lay fully before the public.

About the latter end of November, 1828, this poor woman found her way to the office of the
Anti-Slavery Society in Aldermanbury, by the aid of a person who had become acquainted with
her situation, and had advised her to apply there for advice and assistance. After some preliminary
examination into the accuracy of the circumstances related by her, I went along with her to
Mr. George Stephen, solicitor, and requested him to investigate and draw up a statement of
her case, and have it submitted to counsel, in order to ascertain whether or not, under the
circumstances, her freedom could be legally established on her return to Antigua. On this occasion,
in Mr. Stephen's presence and mine, she expressed, in very strong terms, her anxiety to return
thither if she could go as a free person, and, at the same time, her extreme apprehensions
of the fate that would probably await her if she returned as a slave. Her words were, "I would
rather go into my grave than go back a slave to Antigua, though I wish to go back to my husband
very much--very much--very much! I am much afraid my owners would separate me from my husband,
and use me very hard, or perhaps sell me for a field negro;--and slavery is too too bad. I
would rather go into my grave!"

The paper which Mr. Wood had given her before she left his house, was placed by her in Mr.
Stephen's hands. But thou hast learned arts, which I not possess,
you shall not stay my debtor, I wish God's own eternal Debtor. Set up to me and tell me faithfully
as you have come to poverty in good, and how it go with thee, until I found you yesterday
at the Oak Blobsheimer the forest, and then you shall also hear from me why I'm sad. "

Since I have the great kindness of my Lord had heard of this speech, I made a good courage, sat
down beside him under the tree, and spoke thus: "My lord and knight, there is no honest way in
life than the birth, as our Saviour it is also changed, and so there is no honest way to poverty, to
be born in it, because our Savior was born in it, so I came to poverty, when I was born. But
I 'm not stayed long arm, for I found an unspeakably dear mother, and the left I sleep on her
heart, and looked down at me with caring loving eyes, and woke they do not with their Traenlein
that fell on me, she woke me with kisses, and her own life made me drink from your breasts, O Lord,
I was not rich, who is richer than a new-born child - Yes, I was so rich that I love my mother
Joy and sorrow could double what you will probably hear a song that my Mother often sang when
they sleep for me in early youth, and I have it on their Death in their Gebetbuechlein found lying,
but it is found as soon talking to a child the mother, now the mother to him, now hear:

O Mother, keep your child warm, the world is cold and bright, And carry it in your pious Arm to
your heart's threshold.

Leg still there, where your bosom heaves, And, softly down gebuecket,
hair lovingly, until the bright eyes lifts to the sky And I wake saved
blicket.-up with tears, So I wake up with kisses; For your eyes my
day starts, Sundays, you have to lunar soft

O unschuldger heaven you!

You're laughing eyes of children, O angel vision, o blessed rest in Thee to delight me!

I look to you so day than night, must ever look to you, And if my
sky dreaming laughs, is growing hope and confidence.

Come here, come here, drink my breast, and living out my life, Oh, I could feel like all pious
From my chest give you!

Only desire only pleasure, and it was no good, Oh, you drink the pain,
the stronger God Himmelshoeh you heart out of my heart!

Our Father which art in heaven, Our daily bread give us today, faithful God, Lord Jesus Christ,
impregnating us from your bright eyes-You page. heaven you, you Taust from mother's eyes, Ah, heart
pounding, oh joy, oh peace, suck on your breasts!

I look to you so day than night, must look to you for ever, you need
me, me to the world placed to build now also the cradle.

To let my cradle silk do not let your arm, coil themselves, and only your gentle eyes Let light
pass down to me.

And in thy chaste womb hat swing you should love your child, that
your children, so sweet, so good, how dreams beguile me.

Since I dreaming, as I lived all alone you under her heart, there were the delights I enjoy your
suffering and pain also.

And to you your heart was so big too, and had not know who complain,
and wept quiet you in your lap, Half I wear your heart you.

As I said, 'Come, dear mother, come! Kuehl up in waves of love! Since you have felt so still,
so pious dragged down into you.

Namely mother saved all alone in your lust intoxicated, "Did I clear your mind pure, you Belauschet
heart.

What is holy in you to all hours, that I was all, Now kiss me, sweet
mouth, healthy, Because you heal me.

O blessed, blessed without guilt, how could I pray with you, O wonderful impatience, Ans sharp
Light connect!

Put it in linen, with which you weave, For flowers you gepfluecket, Die, that if the little eyes
out, the sky Beholding it up.

Sun babbles to you a pious heart, and never learns to speak, looks eternally to you, look himmelwaerts
And I will break with joy.

Freud does not break in, but it breaks in pain, it breaks all of us both. Oh, bye goes far
and wide, and is near the vagina!

When I recited the song completely, I and my knights were a bit quiet. Then raised it and said,
"You're right, dear John, you were quite rich, a love so Mother to find on Earth, which is
a nice song, but it is also much sadness in it; who has for so gesetzet that at the end so painfully,
from the vagina talk? "

As I said, "My father has put it, when I was not born, he from my Mother had divorced, and she has
never wiedergesehn him, and I know him not. "Since broke off my tears, but my Lord took me
kindly by the hand over his head and said: "Be cheerful I want to be your father, that's enough
out of the earth, God ! Gebs "I kissed his hand and continued:" Ah, sir, such a wealth of very
dear mother was still not enough, because good people took me in
her arms and carried me to the church, I was received by the holy
baptism among the children of God and was purified from all sin, and
became partakers of the atonement of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Since I was only rich beyond all measure, because I had eternal life and the key of heaven bestowed.
But then neither was given to me many earthly glory, and what necessary
for life and is funny, because I was taught that the Power of all
my Gold is, the level of the rivers all my silver, the green meadows
with many flowers my carpets and Tapezereien, the sky with its blue
and starry vault of green high forest all my buildings and warehouses,
at last I have become so rich that my whole world was open, and was
all good men, my servant, to whom I speak was allowed to: Give me
this, give me that, and I had no master, as Lord of lords, the dear
God who gave me life to live, and in whose hands I do so The Holy
Spirit gives His grace, and my Lord Jesus has mercy on me, without
much Flaw return hope and I have chosen as saying on my plate - because
I 'm a knight's son -:

The sky is my hat, The earth is my shoe, the
holy cross is my sword, Who me provides me dear and precious.

"

Smiled Mr. Valtellina and said, "Your hat is better than your shoe that you will you soon expire,
but your sword is the most powerful on earth and has a good gunsmith
had, you're a good knight, and your trip may leave peacefully, because
you see have you truly value.

But tell me now your custom! "

As I pulled a book from my book bag and said, "I will read you, for I have started, I write down
in a way fairly thoroughly, as it occurred to me with all kinds of talk and consideration, as
I was aware of was that it was and his . May "Then said Mr. Valtellina:" You can write? John,
I can not, and am I am eager to hear if you all so well written that I may well enjoy it;
for as the Scripture as something artificial and man more remarkable given than general speech,
the flies quickly here, they should also be preserved to the dignified be presented to the people,
and thus probably be set and clearly. Read now lifted!

"Since I: Chronicles of the traveling student's Lauren John Burger,
of Polsnich Lahn

This book is valuable and dear to me, Whoever steals
it to me, is a thief.

I was born on 20 May 1318 to Polsnich Lahn, which is a farm that belongs to the monastery Arnstein,
here I was christened John. My mother lived blissfully in a small little house before the court,
and they were called the beautiful Lauren Burger Els, and my father but I never seen was the
Knight of the Lauren Castle, the monastery Arnstein opposite an der
Lahn content.

But what it did for a personality with him, I will write here, so I learn a lot when I get the
time in my life because it was myself known.

The first thing I remember from early youth my mother very much, is that they taught me to call me
with the sign of the cross and the hands to fold and pray the Lord's Prayer and the English
greeting. She told me before the prayers, I looked at her lips and said to her, and I remember
quite clearly my great joy, as I knelt beside her for the first time
in the evening at her prie-dieu, and this holy prayers with her language
skills and without blemish.

Now even when I pray, is it me often when I looked to her lips and spoke to her.

She was poor, pious and industrious, and when I later saw the same in many business, floats me her
picture but most of praying, singing or spinning before his eyes.

If they tell me sometimes in the evening felt asleep in bed, I was still awake, listening to the
purr its spindle and its touching song, for she sat late on to earn their bread in honor.

The sight of my gracious mother, if she so with lamplight singing half aloud to himself, spinning,
moved me to tears too often, why, that the good Lord knows certainly, to which I probably listening
I prayed for them with childish heart.

Once I know that I even had to cry much, as I do at night, so with her skirt before sing himself
heard, as a nightingale began to sing in front of our window also, it was very late, and the full
moon shone clear and bright But my mother did not hear to sing, and
sang the little bird and at the same time.

Since I have sadness for the first felt and had a childish worries about the seriousness of life
that I feel well yet, but can not pronounce, I've also quietly up
in bed and my mother zugehoert.

But they sang a song which ran as follows:

Sang it many years ago probably also the nightingale, That was probably sweeter sound, As we
have were.

I sing and can not weep so alone And spin the thread clear and pure, As long as the moon will appear.

Since
we were together, as the nightingale sang; Now I exhorts her sound,
That you want from me down.

Whenever the moon shines, I think of your own, My heart is clear and pure, God would unite!

Since
you drove by me, always sings the nightingale, I think in their sound, as we together were.

God
wants to unite us, Here I spin so alone, The moon shines clear and pure, I sing and would like
to cry!

Very sad but it seemed to me that the birds and my mother also sang and not quite together, and
I would have known then probably like, if the bird in my mother thought of his song, and whether
he would have rather been crying as singing. I asked about my mother, saying: "Mother, what
the nightingale sings?"

Then she said: "The nightingale is longing and praise God, so I'm doing well But, John. why
are you awake?

Sleep, you have tomorrow morning and go out with me to the monastery Arnstein; if you're not
sleeping, I am not with you. "Then she blew out the lamp, and stood before my bed and made
me the sign of the cross on his forehead, mouth and heart and kissed me, and I felt that she
was crying, I wrapped my arms around her neck and firmly pressed her face to mine, and we both
cried.

I asked: "O mother dear heart, what do you weep and why do you do to me again the cross? I've already
prayed. "

"Dear John," she said then, "I'll always make the cross and kiss you if I'm going to sleep
that you God's blessing and your mother come in the night benefit, but you've been sleeping always,
if I did, and knew it did not matter. "However, why she was crying, she told me at that time.
Then she undressed and put to the Bed, and prayed aloud, but I spoke to her:

Lord Jesus, I go to sleep, fourteen angels let stand with me, two on my right, Two on my left,
two at my head, Two at my feet, Two, cover me, Two that wake me, Two that I have the heavenly
paradise!

What we fell asleep quietly.

The next morning I woke up earlier than the mother. The Swallow began to sing. I dressed quietly
and went to the bed of my mother, who had his hands folded quietly and the new day shone on their
faces. The sight filled me with love and sorrow, for I had Barbara, the daughter of Hofmeier,
the other day so quiet with clasped hands are seeing in the coffin, and I took such a deep
fear that my mother and impetuous Kiss awakened. She woke up in my arms, and when I told her the
cause of my tears said she took my hands from her neck and clasped her, and she concluded
in her love Hands, and so we prayed together to God and thanked him for giving us this night
will and have given us, to take that day to our improvement. At the close of the prayer the mother
said, "You were afraid that I was dead, John, we must all die, think up to our Lord Jesus and the Heavenly
Mother Mary, who is your father and mother be better than your earthly father and I, though I
must leave you. And if I used to be the hands so take it to pray, because I fell asleep to eternal
rest, close my and your hands as in mine and pray with me, that our Saviour together in the
eternal glory of his leave looking brows. "I still was and went to the Little window of our room
and watched the next day. But when my mother dressed had she stepped behind me and gave me
friendly to the eyes, saying, "Wait a little, my dear, soon you'll see something you never
saw. "While it me Sun zuhielt eyes, I asked her: "Dear mother, then the prayer is powerful,
and like it to God better when the hands are folded together so as you did with me ?"--" Certainly,
" the mother said, "if, so do love, so like us, but the good Lord still much more than another,
and pray in the church when all the people together and the priest at the Altars, pray there is
the prayer of the priest's hand, in which they all folded their hands have. What I've learned
from the Christian love, "I said, 'You shall father and mother love, that thou mayest live long
on earth: thou shalt love thy neighbor as yourself and God about everything ."--" law, "said the
mother," Oh, how happy would be the world unites the people prayed as if all that we could
do it today, and as a pious Community in the Church does, "I said childish". But everyone can
not but their hands for two hands put together. "-" Oh, certainly they can, "replied the mother,
"And the love in our Savior Jesus Christ's hands, is everywhere and in all places, and his holy
hands on the cross for us has been stretched to redeem us from sin. For he has indeed taught
us the prayer, and he is the hand into which we place our hands must, so our prayer is to penetrate
to God, for he himself said on earth: "All things are given to me by my father, and no one
knoweth the Son except the Father, and No one knows the Father except the Son, and to whom the Son
chooses to reveal. Come here to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest.
"And Saint John says: "The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand, we have.
an advocate of the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous: he is the propitiation for our sins, but not
for ours only, but for the sins of the world. There is one God and one mediator between God
and men, the man Christ Jesus, the self for all of us who offered to salvation. "Oh, just want
all of their hands given in the Savior's hand, in which God has put everything, believing, hoping
and loving, then we would all look together in the face of God. "After these words, did the love
Mother's hands from my eyes and said: "Praised be Jesus Christ,"
and I replied: "For ever and ever, Amen!" and saw with great happiness
in the glow of the morning sun, about the Lahntal also arose.

"Oh, mother," I exclaimed, "this is God's face ?"--" No, my child, "she replied," that is only
created his Sun, which he over us poor sinful People seem to be, but those who love him, God
has prepared for what is not seen eye and no ear has heard, and what has come in no man's heart.
"

But I then see the sun rise for the first time because I never before so early stood up. This morning
my mother and all the talk and doing the same I have to even now often thought to great benefit.
But my mother took linen, which she wove, and yarn that she spun and gezwirnet in order to sell
it in the monastery. She wore it in the basket on his head, and I asked her, she gave me a
few strands of yarn to wear, what I did with a great love for my mother very carefully until after
Arnstein have taken. We arrived there in the abbot's room, which was decorated with beautiful
pictures; The abbot also acted even the cloth with his mother and
was a sacred, but otherwise no friendly and funny man asked me, because
I found the beautiful pictures on the walls looked so diligent, "Hans,
you probably like my cell, you also feel like a spiritual Mr. Orden
become?

If you're pious and hard working, you can use my time this Abbot and his images have when I sleep
in the quiet convent at the church. "

As I said, "I had half a mind to abbot in the cell to be beautiful, Reverend . Lord, if my dear
mother wanted to live with inside "laughed the abbot and said," Dear Hans, when the beautiful
Lauren Burger Els probably would like to live in the cells, probably the small Klosterpfoertlein be
close to so many should seek the holy order, but the is not, because the Lord speaks, we should
take the cross for us to leave everything and follow him, and yet a mother dwells with us in
our cells, which is much sweeter and milder than yours. "I soon saw the abbot, now to my mother
and was his believe speech is not quite said, even recently, "Oh, Reverend, show me them!" Since
can "show my house, you do not, but we all live: the abbot laughed again and said, in her lap,
and you too, it is the Holy Mother the Church, which our dear Lord Jesus to a bride chosen,
but that you do not understand yet. " As I said, "No!" and he gave me three Bildlein from
his prayer book, which was St. Joergen picture of my father, Knights of the Joergen Lauren Castle,
Patron, St. Elsbethen picture of my mother's patron saint, and St. Johannsen guelder mouth
with the picture, my patron saint, which I felt great joy, and I wanted to kiss him the sleeves,
he shook my hand and said: "John, please Wife, Else, your mother, that she soon you up to school
does, there shall serve you to the fair learn and maintain for each
fair Heller half of me. "Then the mother asked the abbot for his blessing,
and we both knelt before him, and he laid his hands on us and prayed. Of the Hon. Mr. Byam I know nothing, and shall only at present
remark that it is not likely to redound greatly to his credit to appear in such company. Furthermore,
Mary's petition was presented, as Mr. Wood ought to know; though it was not discussed, nor
his conduct exposed as it ought to have been.

9.

Is not this pretext hypocritical in the extreme? What liability could he possibly incur by
voluntarily resigning the power, conferred on him by an iniquitous colonial law, of re-imposing
the shackles of slavery on the bondwoman from whose limbs they had fallen when she touched
the free soil of England?--There exists no liability from which he might not have been easily
secured, or for which he would not have been fully compensated.

He adds in a postscript that Mary had a considerable sum of money with her,--from £36 to £40
at least, which she had saved in his service. The fact is, that she had at one time 113 dollars
in cash; but only a very small portion of that sum appears to have been brought by her to England,
the rest having been partly advanced, as she states, to assist her husband, and partly lost
by being lodged in unfaithful custody.

Finally, Mr. Wood repeats twice that it will afford him great pleasure to state for the governor's
satisfaction, if required, such particulars of "the woman Molly," upon incontestable evidence,
as he is sure will acquit him in his Excellency's opinion "of acting unkind or ungenerous towards
her."

This is well: and I now call upon Mr. Wood to redeem his pledge;--to bring forward facts and
proofs fully to elucidate the subject;--to reconcile, if he can, the extraordinary discrepancies
which I have pointed out between his assertions and the actual facts, and especially between
his account of Mary Prince's character and his own conduct in regard to her. He has now to
produce such a statement as will acquit him not only in the opinion of Sir Patrick Ross, but
of the British public. And in this position he has spontaneously placed himself, in attempting
to destroy, by his deliberate criminatory letter, the poor woman's fair fame and reputation,--an
attempt but for which the present publication would probably never have appeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here perhaps we might safely leave the case to the judgment of the public; but as this negro
woman's character, not the less valuable to her because her condition is so humble, has been
so unscrupulously blackened by her late master, a party so much interested and inclined to
place her in the worst point of view,--it is incumbent on me, as her advocate with the public,
to state such additional testimony in her behalf as I can fairly and conscientiously adduce.

My first evidence is Mr. Joseph Phillips, of Antigua. Having submitted to his inspection Mr.
Wood's letter and Mary Prince's narrative, and requested his candid and deliberate sentiments
in regard to the actual facts of the case, I have been favoured with the following letter from
him on the subject:--

     "London, January 18, 1831.

     "Dear Sir,

     "In giving you my opinion of Mary Prince's narrative, and of
     Mr. Wood's letter respecting her, addressed to Mr. Taylor, I
     shall first mention my opportunities of forming a proper
     estimate of the conduct and character of both
     parties.

     "I have known Mr. Wood since his first arrival in Antigua in
     1803. He was then a poor young man, who had been brought up
     as a ship carpenter in Bermuda. He was afterwards raised to
     be a clerk in the Commissariat department, and realised
     sufficient capital to commence business as a merchant. This
     last profession he has followed successfully for a good many
     years, and is understood to have accumulated very
     considerable wealth. After he entered into trade, I had
     constant intercourse with him in the way of business; and in
     1824 and 1825, I was regularly employed on his premises as
     his clerk; consequently, I had opportunities of seeing a
     good deal of his character both as a merchant, and as a
     master of slaves. The former topic I pass over as irrelevant
     to the present subject: in reference to the latter, I shall
     merely observe that he was not, in regard to ordinary
     matters, more severe than the ordinary run of slave owners;
     but, if seriously offended, he was not of a disposition to
     be easily appeased, and would spare no cost or sacrifice to
     gratify his vindictive feelings. As regards the exaction of
     work from domestic slaves, his wife was probably more severe
     than himself--it was almost impossible for the slaves ever
     to give her entire satisfaction.

     "Of their slave Molly (or Mary) I know less than of Mr. and
     Mrs. Wood; but I saw and heard enough of her, both while I
     was constantly employed on Mr. Wood's premises, and while I
     was there occasionally on business, to be quite certain that
     she was viewed by her owners as their most respectable and
     trustworthy female slave. It is within my personal knowledge
     that she had usually the charge of the house in their
     absence, was entrusted with the keys, &c.; and was always
     considered by the neighbours and visitors as their
     confidential household servant, and as a person in whose
     integrity they placed unlimited confidence,--although when
     Mrs. Wood was at home, she was no doubt kept pretty closely
     at washing and other hard work. A decided proof of the
     estimation in which she was held by her owners exists in the
     fact that Mr. Wood uniformly refused to part with her,
     whereas he sold five other slaves while she was with them.
     Indeed, she always appeared to me to be a slave of superior
     intelligence and respectability; and I always understood
     such to be her general character in the place.

     "As to what Mr. Wood alleges about her being frequently
     before the police, &c. I can only say I never heard of the
     circumstance before; and as I lived for twenty years in the
     same small town, and in the vicinity of their residence, I
     think I could scarcely have failed to become acquainted with
     it, had such been the fact. She might, however, have been
     occasionally before the magistrate in consequence of little
     disputes among the slaves, without any serious imputation on
     her general respectability. She says she was twice summoned
     to appear as a witness on such occasions; and that she was
     once sent by her mistress to be confined in the Cage, and
     was afterwards flogged by her desire. This cruel practice is
     very common in Antigua; and, in my opinion, is but little
     creditable to the slave owners and magistrates by whom such
     arbitrary punishments are inflicted, frequently for very
     trifling faults. Mr. James Scotland is the only magistrate
     in the colony who invariably refuses to sanction this
     reprehensible practice.

     "Of the immoral conduct ascribed to Molly by Mr. Wood, I can
     say nothing further than this--that I have heard she had at
     a former period (previous to her marriage) a connexion with
     a white person, a Capt. ----, which I have no doubt was
     broken off when she became seriously impressed with
     religion. But, at any rate, such connexions are so common, I
     might almost say universal, in our slave colonies, that
     except by the missionaries and a few serious persons, they
     are considered, if faults at all, so very venial as scarcely
     to deserve the name of immorality. Mr. Wood knows this
     colonial estimate of such connexions as well as I do; and,
     however false such an estimate must be allowed to be,
     especially When applied to their own conduct by persons of
     education, pretending to adhere to the pure Christian rule
     of morals,--yet when he ascribes to a negro slave, to whom
     legal marriage was denied, such great criminality for laxity
     of this sort, and professes to be so exceedingly shocked and
     amazed at the tale he himself relates, he must, I am
     confident, have had a farther object in view than the
     information of Mr. Taylor or Sir Patrick Ross. He must, it
     is evident, have been aware that his letter would be sent to
     Mr. Allen, and accordingly adapted it, as more important
     documents from the colonies are often adapted, for effect
     in England. The tale of the slave Molly's immoralities, be
     assured, was not intended for Antigua so much as for Stoke
     Newington, and Peckham, and Aldermanbury.

     "In regard to Mary's narrative generally, although I cannot
     speak to the accuracy of the details, except in a few recent
     particulars, I can with safety declare that I see no reason
     to question the truth of a single fact stated by her, or
     even to suspect her in any instance of intentional
     exaggeration. It bears in my judgment the genuine stamp of
     truth and nature. Such is my unhesitating opinion, after a
     residence of twenty-seven years in the West Indies.

     "I remain, &c.
     "JOSEPH PHILLIPS."

     To T. Pringle, Esq.

     "P.S. As Mr. Wood refers to the evidence of Dr. T. Coull in
     opposition to Mary's assertions, it may be proper to enable
     you justly to estimate the worth of that person's evidence
     in cases connected with the condition and treatment of
     slaves. You are aware that in 1829, Mr. M'Queen of Glasgow,
     in noticing a Report of the "Ladies' Society of Birmingham
     for the relief of British Negro Slaves," asserted with his
     characteristic audacity, that the statement which it
     contained respecting distressed and deserted slaves in
     Antigua was "an abominable falsehood." Not contented with
     this, and with insinuating that I, as agent of the society
     in the distribution of their charity in Antigua, had
     fraudulently duped them out of their money by a fabricated
     tale of distress, Mr. M'Queen proceeded to libel me in the
     most opprobrious terms, as "a man of the most worthless and
     abandoned character."[20] Now I know from good authority that
     it was upon Dr. Coull's information that Mr. M'Queen
     founded this impudent contradiction of notorious facts, and
     this audacious libel of my personal character. From this
     single circumstance you may judge of the value of his
     evidence in the case of Mary Prince. I can furnish further
     information respecting Dr. Coull's colonial proceedings,
     both private and judicial, should circumstances require it."
     "J. P."

     [Footnote 20: In elucidation of the circumstances above
     referred to, I subjoin the following extracts from the Report
     of the Birmingham Ladies' Society for 1830:--

     "As a portion of the funds of this association has been
     appropriated to assist the benevolent efforts of a society
     which has for fifteen years afforded relief to distressed
     and deserted slaves in Antigua, it may not be uninteresting
     to our friends to learn the manner in which the agent of
     this society has been treated for simply obeying the command
     of our Saviour, by ministering, like the good Samaritan, to
     the distresses of the helpless and the desolate. The
     society's proceedings being adverted to by a friend of
     Africa, at one of the public meetings held in this country,
     a West Indian planter, who was present, wrote over to his
     friends in Antigua, and represented the conduct of the
     distributors of this charity in such a light, that it was
     deemed worthy of the cognizance of the House of Assembly.
     Mr. Joseph Phillips, a resident of the island, who had most
     kindly and disinterestedly exerted himself in the
     distribution of the money from England among the poor
     deserted slaves, was brought before the Assembly, and most
     severely interrogated: on his refusing to deliver up his
     private correspondence with his friends in England, he was
     thrown into a loathsome jail, where he was kept for nearly
     five months; while his loss of business, and the oppressive
     proceedings instituted against him, were involving him in
     poverty and ruin. On his discharge by the House of Assembly,
     he was seized in their lobby for debt, and again
     imprisoned."

     "In our report for the year 1826, we quoted a passage from
     the 13th Report of the Society for the relief of deserted
     Slaves in the island of Antigua, in reference to a case of
     great distress. This statement fell into the hands of Mr.
     M'Queen, the Editor of the Glasgow Courier. Of the
     consequences resulting from this circumstance we only gained
     information through the Leicester Chronicle, which had
     copied an article from the Weekly Register of Antigua, dated
     St. John's, September 22, 1829. We find from this that Mr.
     M'Queen affirms, that 'with the exception of the fact that
     the society is, as it deserves to be, duped out of its
     money, the whole tale' (of the distress above referred to)
     'is an abominable falsehood.' This statement, which we are
     informed has appeared in many of the public papers, is
     COMPLETELY REFUTED in our Appendix, No. 4, to which
     we refer our readers. Mr. M'Queen's statements, we regret to
     say, would lead many to believe that there are no deserted
     Negroes to assist; and that the case mentioned was a perfect
     fabrication. He also distinctly avers, that the
     disinterested and humane agent of the society, Mr. Joseph
     Phillips, is 'a man of the most worthless and abandoned
     character.' In opposition to this statement, we learn the
     good character of Mr. Phillips from those who have long been
     acquainted with his laudable exertions in the cause of
     humanity, and from the Editor of the Weekly Register of
     Antigua, who speaks, on his own knowledge, of more than
     twenty years back; confidently appealing at the same time to
     the inhabitants of the colony in which he resides for the
     truth of his averments, and producing a testimonial to Mr.
     Phillips's good character signed by two members of the
     Antigua House of Assembly, and by Mr. Wyke, the collector of
     his Majesty's customs, and by Antigua merchants, as
     follows--'that they have been acquainted with him the last
     four years and upwards, and he has always conducted himself
     in an upright becoming manner--his character we know to be
     unimpeached, and his morals unexceptionable.'

              (Signed)  "Thomas Saunderson   John D. Taylor
                         John A. Wood        George Wyke
                         Samuel L. Darrel     Giles S. Musson
                                 Robert Grant." 

You cry out to me! How poor I am, may I come to you yet, your true sense of the defects has Yes
all of me taken.

Tell me, Lord, is a fine little nest found me with you? "Yes, my dove,
come, come, Living here in my wounds! " See also his account of his own case
in the Anti-Slavery Reporter, No. 74, p. 69.]

I leave the preceding letter to be candidly weighed by the reader in opposition to the inculpatory
allegations of Mr. Wood--merely remarking that Mr. Wood will find it somewhat difficult to
impugn the evidence of Mr. Phillips, whose "upright," "unimpeached," and "unexceptionable"
character, he has himself vouched for in unqualified terms, by affixing his signature to the
testimonial published in the Weekly Register of Antigua in 1825. (See Note below.)

The next testimony in Mary's behalf is that of Mrs. Forsyth, a lady in whose service she spent
the summer of 1829.--(See page 21.) This lady, on leaving London to join her husband, voluntarily
presented Mary with a certificate, which, though it relates only to a recent and short period
of her history, is a strong corroboration of the habitual respectability of her character. To the right of the altar, I knelt down with my mother, with a stone Picture which
had been erected in the wall. However, this presented an old knight who had a long clerical
garb, and put a young knight who knelt before him, the hands on the head. My mother saw quite often
and with inward movement after the kneeling knight. I looked at him, and felt a great joy to him,
he too, would like something Love did set his drum and a green wreath on his head stone, which
I in Woven woods and still playing in his hand. My mother saw this, it drove like a flash through
her eyes, and hugged me hard in the church, but her cheeks were blush and her eyes full of
tears, as she let go of me and lowered his head on the pew. I felt great anxiety about their pathetic
gesture. Since a monk came out of the Sacristy with a beautiful colored wax candle, which he detonated
on the eternal light, approached then our pew and handed it to my mother and kiss me, and when
we do this, he put them on St. Joergen candlesticks, standing next to St. Joergen altar was designed
and like a lance, which is engraved with a dragon. That was the candle, to us the Mr Abbot promised.
Now the bell sounded, and the pious loving Lord walked with the Altar to the altar and read
to us the Mass itself with great devotion. Then said me my mother's ear: 'Pray devoutly handsome,
John, the old knight standing is the old Lauren Burger, your grandfather, pray for him handsome!
"Now I no longer had the courage, after to look at the picture, and I was my grandfather at
that time to an even more serious and solicitous Thought, but I have prayed for the first time
with a right inward anguish, as never used, but that why I pray, I can not remember much more
about me.

As the show was over, I asked my mother back to the stone image of
the Words: "Mother, what does given that the former Lauren Burger?"

But she did not answer, and looked with moist eyes to the kneeling knight, which I aufgesetzet
the wreath. When I asked again, she said: "The old Lauren Burger doing what I did to you last
night, I called up in bed with the Holy Cross "I asked again,". Will then the old Lauren Burger
sleep go "And she said," Yes, he'll go sleep in the eternal . Tranquility "I asked, but continued:"
Will go for the kneeling knight sleep "Then said her: "Oh, God grant him a blessed awakening,
he already sleeps!" and was again very sad, and I picked up at the picture, with the words: "Kiss
the kneeling and got it right dear, it is your good father. "I kissed him warmly, and put the
deal Kraenzlein on his head, wanted him to do so. But my mother kept me in her arms and carried
me out of the church, and they would have almost forgotten even her basket, which is still was
the brother Sulpizius. He came running after us, however, and brought the basket, there was a nice
white bread inside the monastery and a jug full of wine, which gave us the Men's Dept.

She thanked me and went quietly with me next to the forest, a different way than we came here
were. She had the basket on the right arm and carried me to the left, I told her that I was
not tired, and she get mad, they should let me go.

But she did I do not let go, and I saw in it a secret desire to carry me, and she completed
fixed me sometimes with her arms to her chest, so I felt the beat of her heart. Since I was
I am quite aware of her love life, and having enjoyed their childhood goodness Joy, for she
would tell me not to discharge, because if the same size and slim, but weakened by some care and
watch of the night was. She was soft and white with long blond hair, and eyelashes were like golden
rays over her pure blue eyes, look at me still with peace, love and warning. Yes, her lovely
face was as a transparent little window of her heart, from your soul with each inward movement
blushing, turning pale and looked to the sky. Her mouth was closed quiet and delicate, and
caused a punishment awe. I say this here, for I will never forget the love with which I then
looked at her precious face, and how good and gracious, they looked as me so tenderly by the
free air hintrug the green lawn, and my Haerlein and her long blond hair flying in the wind mixed
up, and the lark about us, floating towards the sun, Lobsang.
 These unquestionable facts speak volumes.[22]

[Footnote 21: If it even were so, how strong a plea of palliation might not the poor negro
bring, by adducing the neglect of her various owners to afford religious instruction or moral
discipline, and the habitual influence of their evil example (to say the very least,) before
her eyes? What moral good could she possibly learn--what moral evil could she easily escape,
while under the uncontrolled power of such masters as she describes Captain I---- and Mr. D----
of Turk's Island? All things considered, it is indeed wonderful to find her such as she now
is. But as she has herself piously expressed it, "that God whom then she knew not mercifully
preserved her for better things."]

[Footnote 22: Since the preceding pages were printed off, I have been favoured with a communication
from the Rev. J. Curtin, to whom among other acquaintances of Mr. Wood's in this country, the
entire proof sheets of this pamphlet had been sent for inspection. Mr. Curtin corrects some
omissions and inaccuracies in Mary Prince's narrative (see page 17,) by stating, 1. That she
was baptized, not in August, but on the 6th of April, 1817; 2. That sometime before her baptism,
on her being admitted a catechumen, preparatory to that holy ordinance, she brought a note
from her owner, Mr. Wood, recommending her for religious instruction, &c.; 3. That it was his
usual practice, when any adult slaves came on week days to school, to require their owners'
permission for their attendance; but that on Sundays the chapel was open indiscriminately to
all.--Mary, after a personal interview with Mr. Curtin, and after hearing his letter read by
me, still maintains that Mr. Wood's note recommended her for baptism merely, and that she never
received any religious instruction whatever from Mr. and Mrs. Wood, or from any one else at
that period beyond what she has stated in her narrative. In regard to her non-admission to
the Sunday school without permission from her owners, she admits that she may possibly have
mistaken the clergyman's meaning on that point, but says that such was certainly her impression
at the time, and the actual cause of her non-attendance.

Mr. Curtin finds in his books some reference to Mary's connection with a Captain ----, (the
individual, I believe, alluded to by Mr. Phillips at page 32); but he states that when she
attended his chapel she was always decently and becomingly dressed, and appeared to him to
be in a situation of trust in her mistress's family.

Mr. Curtin offers no comment on any other part of Mary's statement; but he speaks in very favourable,
though general terms of the respectability of Mr. Wood, whom he had known for many years in
Antigua; and of Mrs. Wood, though she was not personally known to him, he says, that he had
"heard her spoken of by those of her acquaintance, as a lady of very mild and amiable manners."

Another friend of Mr. and Mrs. Wood, a lady who had been their guest both in Antigua and England,
alleges that Mary has grossly misrepresented them in her narrative; and says that she "can
vouch for their being the most benevolent, kind-hearted people that can possibly live." She
has declined, however, to furnish me with any written correction of the misrepresentations
she complains of, although I offered to insert her testimony in behalf of her friends, if sent
to me in time. And having already kept back the publication a fortnight waiting for communications
of this sort, I will not delay it longer. Those who have withheld their strictures have only
themselves to blame.

Of the general character of Mr. and Mrs. Wood, I would not designedly give any unfair impression.
Without implicitly adopting either the ex parte view of Mary Prince, or the unmeasured encomiums
of their friends, I am willing to believe them to be, on the whole, fair, perhaps favourable,
specimens of colonial character. Also this time when I, except my hand, in
many cases dealt with the reading of good books, was voruebergegangen. Now, after three year
travels, I found myself in a central German city. It was there a strict Catholic, and understood
at the point they no fun, if you in front of their Processions, singing and covered with pictures
of saints through the streets, not even the Hut declined, he was also a well-beaten down, but
otherwise there were good people .-- The Mistress, when I was in labor, was a widow whose son, like
me in a strange land worked to the measures required by the guild laws of the later years of travel
in this job to be able to demonstrate to the master law. I had it good in this house, the woman I
was doing, what they might wish to do it in the distance, other people in your child, and soon
grew among us confidence so that the business as good as in my .-- Now, our hands were there
with her son Joseph in the works, and the old man has, so He often wrote cuddles with him when
she was the incarnate Grandmother to the boy. - Well, then I sat one Sunday afternoon with
my mistress in the parlor, the window of the door of the big house opposite were prisoners. It was
in January, the Thermometer was twenty degrees below zero, outside on the street could see
no one; sometimes the wind came whistling down from the nearby mountains and chased small
pieces of ice sounding over the pavement.

"There pleases 's room, and hot' n hot coffee moose damage," said
the mistress, by me the cup for the third time vollschenkte.

I stepped to the window.

       *       *       *       *       *

I may here add a few words respecting the earlier portion of Mary Prince's narrative. The facts
there stated must necessarily rest entirely,--since we have no collateral evidence,--upon their
intrinsic claims to probability, and upon the reliance the reader may feel disposed, after
perusing the foregoing pages, to place on her veracity. To my judgment, the internal evidence
of the truth of her narrative appears remarkably strong. She saw me with
inexpressible love and then turned his eyes to heaven. I said, "conduct God loves you, mother,
"and wept loudly. Since I was the lady out to her little son, whom I told everything, and since
a couple of pigeons flew over to Lauren Castle, we extended both childish from the hands and
shouted: "There they fly, they fly, God lead you, Love Heart Mother! "

Afterwards the lady took me to the castle Lauren and I stayed there until the next day, because
the mother was already buried in the monastery Arnstein. The old servant, however, was at
my Father remained, and my father was a full day in Kloster Arnstein been of comfort the spiritual
leaders to enjoy. The noble wife was also one of the grave, and as they returned to the castle
Lauren, she brought her master, the Knight of the Lauren Burg, and older son, John, was the
old Lauren Burger with the Count of Nassau, with which, the John was the godfather, and had the
Laurenburg Erin met them on the return. The Ritter was friendly and gave me my wake of the
Count of Nassau table, and as his Housewife him tell it to the pious death of my mother, he
was very compassionate with my father, and said, "The Count Johann has spoken today to the table
of the pious master Falk, and above all his servants are meant to honor, I had to have him promise,
the Vogler to greet him, and he will soon send him a sick falcons that he care. Come, little
Else, "the Knight said to me," I want you even to your Bring father;. It is still high in the
day, and he may well need comfort, "Since I took The Knights returned to Hirzentreu, and went
to George again. The noble wife stayed with John back, which should tell her about the nature
of the Counts of Nassau. But we found my Father and Lauren Burger servant before the door sit in
quiet conversation, and when this saw approaching his master, who carried me in her arms up the
steep path he was on and stepped aside, but my father ran to meet me, took me by the knight's
arms and embraced me in tears. Then he said to Lauren Burger of honest and comforted him as best
he could, sat down with him also on the bench and told him the benefit of the Nassau to him, and
they said many things, not as a knight to a servant, but as good Neighbors and friends, because
the accident maketh journeymen. But it was also the Lauren Burger his first wife died along with
the child in the bed Kindel, which he intended to much love. During this talk I stood between
my father's knees, and George find the Lauren Burger, and reflected in our bare his chest armor,
and laughed, because, hollow ground, our faces disguised in many ways. Then my father said ear,
may I bring the wine and the spice of the mother Tischlein; since I went to Office, but it was
very different now, and where stood the bed stood, the prie-dieu and the Altaerlein, and hung
a new image of the Virgin on the wall, and on that of the mother and Father's Brautkraenzlein
their spindle stood in front of my little bench, and was all even changed. That my father had
arranged the good old Lauren Burger servant so that he his pain sooner forget and start a new
life, may.

After I was sufficiently surprised about everything, I took the wine and the spice, of which
the gift of Laurenburg Erin was left, and brought it out to the father,
who handed the pitcher the knight.

Since drinking the Lord, and his father had to do know. Also said the knight, "It is a delicious
wine we probably offer the emperor, you have it probably from a monastery cellar? A gentleman
of such wine is growing not the spear, the tastes of the crook. " My father smiled and said:
"Sir, you have from your drinking, but he was lying on a cask mild, for your dear wife Ida
this drink has brought to my blessed Agnes refreshment, and if it tastes better to you than
at home, so is it, because your God tasteth blessing. "As the Laurenburger drank again and said,
"Truly, God's blessing should be put in the wine of God's blessings to you Maintain the wine,
in God's blessing of the wine thrives in every way. The barrel of the women Ida filled this
jar, I must be just as good, you must allow me well that I it with you up here austrinke, Kilian,
because I think it tasted so good with you. "As thanked my father, the knight heartily and
said: "So you do not despise a poor man wants I think your popularity in high esteem, but you
must then also from my water source drink here, because in it God's blessings flow. "Now the
knight different kind of us with his family, and I went with the father in our lonely little
house in which the mother everything was.
 I
shall therefore content myself with quoting a single short passage from the excellent work
of my friend Dr. Walsh, entitled "Notices of Brazil,"--a work which, besides its other merits,
has vividly illustrated the true spirit of Negro Slavery, as it displays itself not merely
in that country, but wherever it has been permitted to open its Pandora's box of misery and crime.

Let the reader ponder on the following just remarks, and compare the facts stated by the Author
in illustration of them, with the circumstances related at pages 6 and 7 of Mary's narrative:--

     "If then we put out of the question the injury inflicted on
     others, and merely consider the deterioration of feeling and
     principle with which it operates on ourselves, ought it not
     to be a sufficient, and, indeed, unanswerable argument,
     against the permission of Slavery?

     "The exemplary manner in which the paternal duties are
     performed at home, may mark people as the most fond and
     affectionate parents; but let them once go abroad, and come
     within the contagion of slavery, and it seems to alter the
     very nature of a man; and the father has sold, and still
     sells, the mother and his children, with as little
     compunction as he would a sow and her litter of pigs; and he
     often disposes of them together.

     "This deterioration of feeling is conspicuous in many ways
     among the Brazilians. They are naturally a people of a
     humane and good-natured disposition, and much indisposed to
     cruelty or severity of any kind. Indeed, the manner in which
     many of them treat their slaves is a proof of this, as it is
     really gentle and considerate; but the natural tendency to
     cruelty and oppression in the human heart, is continually
     evolved by the impunity and uncontrolled licence in which
     they are exercised. I never walked through the streets of
     Rio, that some house did not present to me the semblance of
     a bridewell, where the moans and the cries of the sufferers,
     and the sounds of whips and scourges within, announced to me
     that corporal punishment was being inflicted. Whenever I
     remarked this to a friend, I was always answered that the
     refractory nature of the slave rendered it necessary, and no
     house could properly be conducted unless it was practised.
     But this is certainly not the case; and the chastisement is
     constantly applied in the very wantonness of barbarity, and
     would not, and dared not, be inflicted on the humblest
     wretch in society, if he was not a slave, and so put out of
     the pale of pity.

     "Immediately joining our house was one occupied by a
     mechanic, from which the most dismal cries and moans
     constantly proceeded. I entered the shop one day, and found
     it was occupied by a saddler, who had two negro boys working
     at his business. He was a tawny, cadaverous-looking man,
     with a dark aspect; and he had cut from his leather a
     scourge like a Russian knout, which he held in his hand, and
     was in the act of exercising on one of the naked children in
     an inner room: and this was the cause of the moans and cries
     we heard every day, and almost all day long.

     "In the rear of our house was another, occupied by some
     women of bad character, who kept, as usual, several negro
     slaves. I was awoke early one morning by dismal cries, and
     looking out of the window, I saw in the back yard of the
     house, a black girl of about fourteen years old; before her
     stood her mistress, a white woman, with a large stick in her
     hand. She was undressed except her petticoat and chemise,
     which had fallen down and left her shoulders and bosom bare.
     Her hair was streaming behind, and every fierce and
     malevolent passion was depicted in her face. She too, like
     my hostess at Governo [another striking illustration of the
     dehumanizing effects of Slavery,] was the very
     representation of a fury. My thoughts went to the home, not to love people I was not there,
the leave-taking I had now learned thoroughly. I Mother had been granted to me even closed eyes,
had a few weeks ago I now also lost his father, and at the time no matter how lengthy journeys,
I had him not even able to accompany his resting place. But his father's workshop waiting the
son of their departed master. However, the old Henry was still there and could with permission
from the guild master the matter has maintained a short time, and so had because I promised,
my good mistress, a few more weeks until the arrival of their Bear with her son. But peace, I no
longer had the fresh grave of my father No longer would tolerate me in a strange land.

In this thought I broke a sharp scolding voice Over There from the
road.

When I looked up I saw the face of consumptiveness Gefaengnisinspektors from the half-open door
of the jail stretch out, his fist raised a threatened young woman who, as it seemed, almost
by force to penetrate the otherwise dreaded spaces desired.

"Probably what have love inside," said the mistress, by her arm-chair
from too the precedent had been watching, "but over there the old
sinner because no heart has for humanity."

"The man does his duty well, mistress," I said, still in my own Thoughts.
 Though born a British subject, and resident
within the shores of England, he is cut off from his dearest natural rights by the sad alternative
of regaining them at the expence of liberty, and the certainty of severe treatment. It is true
that he has the option of returning; but it is a cruel mockery to call it a voluntary choice,
when upon his return depend his means of subsistence and his re-union with all that makes life
valuable. Here he has tasted "the sweets of freedom," to quote the words of the unfortunate
Mary Prince; but if he desires to restore himself to his family, or to escape from suffering
and destitution, and the other evils of a climate uncongenial to his constitution and habits,
he must abandon the enjoyment of his late-acquired liberty, and again subject himself to the
arbitrary power of a vindictive master.

The case of Mary Prince is by no means a singular one; many of the same kind are daily occurring:
and even if the case were singular, it would still loudly call for the interference of the
legislature. In instances of this kind no injury can possibly be done to the owner by confirming
to the slave his resumption of his natural rights. It is the master's spontaneous act to bring
him to this country; he knows when he brings him that he divests himself of his property; and
it is, in fact, a minor species of slave trading, when he has thus enfranchised his slave,
to re-capture that slave by the necessities of his condition, or by working upon the better
feelings of his heart. Abstractedly from all legal technicalities, there is no real difference
between thus compelling the return of the enfranchised negro, and trepanning a free native
of England by delusive hopes into perpetual slavery. The most ingenious casuist could not point
out any essential distinction between the two cases. Our boasted liberty is the dream of imagination,
and no longer the characteristic of our country, if its bulwarks can thus be thrown down by
colonial special pleading. Mr. Lüddeke blinked his little Mrs. Armida
eyes soon, soon the tap on, sitting in the square hatch, with the wings suggested that the
beak tearing and crowed far greater in the incident as a twilight course looked. "He has a shrill
voice and despicable character," he said, "and it would not be pity for him, but when advised
by Mr. Würmling us that we are not suspicious haste , Do we have to rein in our well-justified resentment
and our audacity for the time being. "

"Well," cried Mrs. Armida, which persuasion and that the reasons for the men, such as water drops
proceed to the left, "if the men have no heart in the chest, so I will include in poultry give his
reward, "roused a few large boulders, in the midst of the stall a feed trough formed, and they
threw a big detour to the hatch. The men hastened to the area the low whirring blocks come to
what they were not hindered by the laughter of little, in which they were advised by the violence
of the lady, but turned back the good Tile, to make his wife pointed out that they make themselves
more easily than the tap would. Since she had just occurred to themselves, they left the battlefield
on which the ax and the stones were wildly. »Druwel," she said sternly, adding she stopped before
the Lord, "In some corset puts a hero and a coward in some armor." The first, "said Druwel
the humble, "no one will deny that you know, for me, so my physical system designed such that
before I secret things as ghosts, furies, Miasma, disease, vision, earthquakes and storms,
an invincible, inner restraint and horror feel, while a whole army my heart is not a single vortex
beat faster. can be "In your list you forgot the women," remarked Mrs. Armida, "and yet you
have your cause, to fight them also to his eyes." From the point of view overcome a beautiful
and noble lady to be his need to be ashamed of no man, " Druwel replied and offered the now reconciled
Mayor arm to them in the dining room to lead.

The characteristic Molli did not like the other servants watched the
show in the garden, but was in their omelets, pastries and bakeries
remained so vain flavor and opulence, the Company received on the
board.

Mrs. Armida, which was still breathing heavily, opened the Table, by exclaiming: "Have I not been so
bothered, I am now its sure that the bad guy lays eggs, and smart, he must begin to him that we
.'ve Never hit it, "said Würmling From:" madam have withdrawn from the poor to favor and now consider
him capable of any wrongdoing: this is the kind of women "" Oh sure, "replied. it quickly, "the
nature of women is to blindfold not to let himself, not through a scraped Chin or by looking
through a long beard and colorful feathers, but the bad faxes and clean it. "When she noticed
that Lord Lüddeke the serving girl for by wink and all kinds of caution sign to warn sought, she
looked defiantly around and said, "Why should I be silent in this instance, as if I had laid the eggs?
We will soon figure it out and it stuck a stick, so that anyone with our Justice must be satisfied.
Yes, "said the mayor, so it should be so, but times would no longer be so, but it prevails mischief
and insubordination among the people, there is cheeky People with impunity and inflate the higher people
witness something on mending. The City captain had abandoned him seriously to punish the talk
lies, as put his cock Eggs, as he should do but if his own wife was calling out to the streets
that it was true?

The mention of the city's main wife Armida agreed thoughtfully and cloudy, so that it consists
of Gloom and growing concern the tangle of entertainment had been unleashed. However, were Mr.
and Lüddeke of Würmling always funny, and the latter that is started when He had drunk a bottle
of good wine to be sociable and play wit and humor to be as if the
noble lighter ignited a timber, which previously lain dumb and stupid
had, but now crackled and warmed, lighted and spread fragrance.

 They used to tie them by the feet, except when they were taking them off, and then they
let them loose; but if they offered to run away, they would shoot them. I lost a great many
friends and relations at Egie; about a dozen. They sold all they carried away, to be slaves.
I know this because I afterwards saw them as slaves on the other side of the sea. They took
away brothers, and sisters, and husbands, and wives; they did not care about this. They were
sold for cloth or gunpowder, sometimes for salt or guns; sometimes they got four or five guns
for a man: they were English guns, made like my master's that I clean for his shooting. The
Adinyés burnt a great many places besides Egie. They burnt all the country wherever they found
villages; they used to shoot men, women, and children, if they ran away.

They came to us about eleven o'clock one day, and directly they came they set our house on
fire. All of us had run away. We kept together, and went into the woods, and stopped there
two days. The Adinyés then went away, and we returned home and found every thing burnt. We
tried to build a little shed, and were beginning to get comfortable again. We found several
of our neighbours lying about wounded; they had been shot. I saw the bodies of four or five
little children whom they had killed with blows on the head. They had carried away their fathers
and mothers, but the children were too small for slaves, so they killed them. They had killed
several others, but these were all that I saw. I saw them lying in the street like dead dogs.

In about a week after we got back, the Adinyés returned, and burnt all the sheds and houses
they had left standing. We all ran away again; we went to the woods as we had done before.--They
followed us the next day. We went farther into the woods, and staid there about four days and
nights; we were half starved; we only got a few potatoes. My uncle Otou was with us. At the
end of this time, the Adinyés found us. We ran away. They called my uncle to go to them; but
he refused, and they shot him immediately: they killed him. The rest of us ran on, and they
did not get at us till the next day. I ran up into a tree: they followed me and brought me
down. They tied my feet. I do not know if they found my father and mother, and brothers and
sisters: they had run faster than me, and were half a mile farther when I got up into the tree:
I have never seen them since.--There was a man who ran up into the tree with me: I believe
they shot him, for I never saw him again. 

"I think so too," said his mother, wiped his eyes.

"There is nothing sad," said Wiseli a little shocked when she was
the mother always again about wiping his eyes saw.

"You have to again thank him, Wiseli, I can not. Let him say it again, I thank him for all
the best. He has meant so well with me. And as she had desired, said
it now devoutly to be little verse. It lay maeuschenstill up to her,
and It soon fell asleep too tightly. I was about
thirteen years old. It was about half a year from the time I was taken, before I saw the white
people.

We were taken in a boat from place to place, and sold at every place we stopped at. In about
six months we got to a ship, in which we first saw white people: they were French. They bought
us. 

My Lord, who had become very serious, said then, looking down sadly to himself: "And what is
in front of a jewel, John, with the boast on you? "

As I said, "Lord, it is my youth, which I will let you enjoy, as I
can. The slaves we saw on board the
ship were chained together by the legs below deck, so close they could not move. They were
flogged very cruelly: I saw one of them flogged till he died; we could not tell what for. They
gave them enough to eat. The place they were confined in below deck was so hot and nasty I
could not bear to be in it. We have the Lord's uncle to visit because it is always late. "

"And if you had come too early in the morning, you would be too late
for coming today.

She died in the night. "

"Is that really true?" cried Trina in alarm.
 I am very glad I have come
to England, to know who God is. It was about twelve years later .-- I had to master the computing school, as it was then some
Handwerkersoehne wont to do, you had also the quarters of our Gelehrtenschule and was then
kicked by my father in teaching. I shall stay
in England as long as (please God) I shall live. I wish the King of England could know all
I have told you. I wish it that he may see how cruelly we are used. We had no king in our country,
or he would have stopt it. The day broke to,
and I took a twig from the Rosmarienstock, who was at their camp, and gave it her to the cross
in her clasped hands. Then flew the dove, which in our House nestled on the window and picked
it and cried. Ruckuck "

"LOUIS ASA-ASA."

"London, January 31, 1831."

