But, thank GOD! There is a true prosperity which comes from Him and leads towards Him. It is
not only consistent with perfect integrity and uncompromising holiness of heart and life, but
it cannot be attained without them, and its enjoyment tends to deepen them. This divine prosperity
is GOD'S purpose for every believer, in all that he undertakes; in things temporal and in things
spiritual, in all the relations and affairs of this life, as well as in all work for CHRIST
and for eternity, it is GOD'S will for each child of His that "whatsoever he doeth shall prosper."

Yet many of His children evidently do not enjoy this uniform blessing; some find failure rather
than success the rule of their life: while others, sometimes prospered and sometimes discouraged,
live lives of uncertainty, in which anxiety and even fear are not infrequent. Shall we not
each one at the outset ask, How is it with me? Is this blessed prosperity my experience? Am
I so led by the SPIRIT in my doings, and so prospered by GOD in their issues, that as His witness
I can bear testimony to His faithfulness to this promise? If it be not so with me, what is
the reason? Which of the necessary conditions have I failed to fulfil? May our meditations
on the First Psalm make these conditions more clear to our minds, and may faith be enabled
to claim definitely all that is included in this wonderful promise!

THE NEGATIVE CONDITIONS OF BLESSING "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of
the ungodly."

More literally, O the blessings, the manifold happiness of the man whose character is here
described in the first and second verses of this Psalm! He is happy in what he escapes or avoids,
and happy and prospered in what he undertakes.

The first characteristic given us is that he walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, the wicked.
Notice, it does not merely say that he walks not in wicked counsel: a man of GOD clearly would
not do this; but what is said is that he "walketh not in the counsel of the wicked." Now the
wicked have often much worldly wisdom, and become noted for their prosperity and their prudence,
but the child of GOD should always be on his guard against their counsel; however good it may
appear, it is full of danger.

One of the principal characteristics of the wicked is that GOD is not in all his thoughts;
he sees everything from the standpoint of self, or, at the highest, from the standpoint of
humanity. His maxim, "Take care of number one," would be very good if it were meant that GOD
is first, and should always be put first; but he means it not so: self and not GOD is number
one to the ungodly. The wicked will often counsel to honesty, not on the ground that honesty
is pleasing to GOD, but that it is the best policy; if in any particular business transaction
a more profitable policy appears quite safe, those who have simply been honest because it pays
best, will be very apt to cease to be so.

The child of GOD has no need of the counsel of the ungodly; if he love and study GOD'S Word
it will make him wiser than all such counsellors. If he seek for and observe all the counsel
of GOD, through the guidance of the HOLY SPIRIT, he will not walk in darkness even as to worldly
things. The directions of GOD'S Word may often seem strange and impolitic, but in the measure
in which he has faith to obey the directions he finds in the Scripture, turning not to the
right hand nor to the left, will he make his way prosperous, will he find good success.

