HAM SANDWICH

                   It gets difficult to handle the
                problem of a man who has a real talent
                  that you need badly--and he cannot
                   use it if he knows it's honest!

                         by JAMES H. SCHMITZ

                      ILLUSTRATED BY LEO SUMMERS

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no one standing or sitting around the tastefully furnished entry hall of the Institute
of Insight when Wallace Cavender walked into it. He was almost half an hour late for the regular
Sunday night meeting of advanced students; and even Mavis Greenfield, Dr. Ormond's secretary,
who always stayed for a while at her desk in the hall to sign in the stragglers, had disappeared.
However, she had left the attendance book lying open on the desk with a pen placed invitingly
beside it.

Wallace Cavender dutifully entered his name in the book. The distant deep voice of Dr. Aloys
Ormond was dimly audible, coming from the direction of the lecture room, and Cavender followed
its faint reverberations down a narrow corridor until he reached a closed door. He eased the
door open and slipped unobtrusively into the back of the lecture room.

As usual, most of the thirty-odd advanced students present had seated themselves on the right
side of the room where they were somewhat closer to the speaker. Cavender started towards the
almost vacant rows of chairs on the left, smiling apologetically at Dr. Ormond who, as the
door opened, had glanced up without interrupting his talk. Three other faces turned towards
Cavender from across the room. Reuben Jeffries, a heavyset man with a thin fringe of black
hair circling an otherwise bald scalp, nodded soberly and looked away again. Mavis Greenfield,
a few rows further up, produced a smile and a reproachful little headshake; during the coffee
break she would carefully explain to Cavender once more that students too tardy to take in
Dr. Al's introductory lecture missed the most valuable part of these meetings.

From old Mrs. Folsom, in the front row on the right, Cavender's belated arrival drew a more
definite rebuke. She stared at him for half a dozen seconds with a coldly severe frown, mouth
puckered in disapproval, before returning her attention to Dr. Ormond.

Cavender sat down in the first chair he came to and let himself go comfortably limp. He was
dead-tired, had even hesitated over coming to the Institute of Insight tonight. But it wouldn't
do to skip the meeting. A number of his fellow students, notably Mrs. Folsom, already regarded
him as a black sheep; and if enough of them complained to Dr. Ormond that Cavender's laxness
threatened to retard the overall advance of the group towards the goal of Total Insight, Ormond
might decide to exclude him from further study. At a guess, Cavender thought cynically, it
would have happened by now if the confidential report the Institute had obtained on his financial
status had been less impressive. A healthy bank balance wasn't an absolute requirement for
membership, but it helped ... it helped! All but a handful of the advanced students were in
the upper income brackets.

Cavender let his gaze shift unobtrusively about the group while some almost automatic part
of his mind began to pick up the thread of Dr. Al's discourse. After a dozen or so sentences,
he realized that the evening's theme was the relationship between subjective and objective
reality, as understood in the light of Total Insight. It was a well-worn subject; Dr. Al repeated
himself a great deal. Most of the audience nevertheless was following his words with intent
interest, many taking notes and frowning in concentration. As Mavis Greenfield liked to express
it, quoting the doctor himself, the idea you didn't pick up when it was first presented might
come clear to you the fifth or sixth time around. Cavender suspected, however, that as far
as he was concerned much of the theory of Total Insight was doomed to remain forever obscure.

He settled his attention on the only two students on this side of the room with him. Dexter
Jones and Perrie Rochelle were sitting side by side in front-row chairs--the same chairs they
usually occupied during these meetings. They were exceptions to the general run of the group
in a number of ways. Younger, for one thing; Dexter was twenty-nine and Perrie twenty-three
while the group averaged out at around forty-five which happened to be Cavender's age. Neither
was blessed with worldly riches; in fact, it was questionable whether the Rochelle girl, who
described herself as a commercial artist, even had a bank account. Dexter Jones, a grade-school
teacher, did have one but was able to keep it barely high enough to cover his rent and car
payment checks. Their value to the Institute was of a different kind. Both possessed esoteric
mental talents, rather modest ones, to be sure, but still very interesting, so that on occasion
they could state accurately what was contained in a sealed envelope, or give a recognizable
description of the photograph of a loved one hidden in another student's wallet. This provided
the group with encouraging evidence that such abilities were, indeed, no fable and somewhere
along the difficult road to Total Insight might be attained by all.

In addition, Perrie and Dexter were volunteers for what Dr. Aloys Ormond referred to cryptically
as "very advanced experimentation." The group at large had not been told the exact nature of
these experiments, but the implication was that they were mental exercises of such power that
Dr. Al did not wish other advanced students to try them, until the brave pioneer work being
done by Perrie and Dexter was concluded and he had evaluated the results....

       *       *       *       *       *

"Headaches, Dr. Al," said Perrie Rochelle. "Sometimes quite bad headaches--" She hesitated.
She was a thin, pale girl with untidy arranged brown hair who vacillated between periods of
vivacious alertness and activity and somewhat shorter periods of blank-faced withdrawal. "And
then," she went on, "there are times during the day when I get to feeling sort of confused
and not quite sure whether I'm asleep or awake ... you know?"

Dr. Ormond nodded, gazing at her reflectively from the little lectern on which he leaned. His
composed smile indicated that he was not in the least surprised or disturbed by her report
on the results of the week's experiments--that they were, in fact, precisely the results he
had expected. "I'll speak to you about it later, Perrie," he told her gently. "Dexter ... what
experiences have you had?"

Dexter Jones cleared his throat. He was a serious young man who appeared at meetings conservatively
and neatly dressed and shaved to the quick, and rarely spoke unless spoken to.

"Well, nothing very dramatic, Dr. Al," he said diffidently. "I did have a few nightmares during
the week. But I'm not sure there's any connection between them and, uh, what you were having
us do."

Dr. Ormond stroked his chin and regarded Dexter with benevolence. "A connection seems quite
possible, Dexter. Let's assume it exists. What can you tell us about those nightmares?"

Dexter said he was afraid he couldn't actually tell them anything. By the time he was fully
awake he'd had only a very vague impression of what the nightmares were about, and the only
part he could remember clearly now was that they had been quite alarming.

Old Mrs. Folsom, who was more than a little jealous of the special attention enjoyed by Dexter
and Perrie, broke in eagerly at that point to tell about a nightmare she'd had during the week
and which she could remember fully; and Cavender's attention drifted away from the talk. Mrs.
Folsom was an old bore at best, but a very wealthy old bore, which was why Dr. Ormond usually
let her ramble on a while before steering the conversation back to the business of the meeting.
But Cavender didn't have to pretend to listen.

From his vantage point behind most of the group, he let his gaze and thoughts wander from one
to the other of them again. For the majority of the advanced students, he reflected, the Institute
of Insight wasn't really too healthy a place. But it offered compensations. Middle-aged or
past it on the average, financially secure, vaguely disappointed in life, they'd found in Dr.
Al a friendly and eloquent guide to lead them into the fascinating worlds of their own minds.
And Dr. Al was good at it. He had borrowed as heavily from yoga and western mysticism as from
various orthodox and unorthodox psychological disciplines, and composed his own system, almost
his own cosmology. His exercises would have made conservative psychiatrists shudder, but he
was clever enough to avoid getting his flock into too serious mental difficulties. If some
of them suffered a bit now and then, it made the quest of Total Insight and the thought that
they were progressing towards that goal more real and convincing. And meeting after meeting
Dr. Al came up with some intriguing new twist or device, some fresh experience to keep their
interest level high.

"Always bear in mind," he was saying earnestly at the moment, "that an advance made by any
member of the group benefits the group as a whole. Thus, because of the work done by our young
pioneers this week I see indications tonight that the group is ready to attempt a new experiment
... an experiment at a level I frankly admit I hadn't anticipated you would achieve for at
least another two months."

Dr. Ormond paused significantly, the pause underlining his words. There was an expectant stirring
among the students.

"But I must caution you!" he went on. "We cannot, of course, be certain that the experiment
will succeed ... in fact, it would be a very remarkable thing if it did succeed at a first
attempt. But if it should, you will have had a rather startling experience! You will have seen
a thing generally considered to be impossible!"

He smile reassuringly, stepping down from the lectern. "Naturally, there will be no danger.
You know me well enough to realize that I never permit the group or individuals to attempt
what lies beyond their capability."

       *       *       *       *       *

Cavender stifled a yawn, blinked water from his eyes, watching Ormond walk over to a small
polished table on the left side of the room in front of the rows of chairs. On it Mavis Greenfield
had placed a number of enigmatic articles, some of which would be employed as props in one
manner or another during the evening's work. The most prominent item was a small suitcase in
red alligator hide. Dr. Ormond, however, passed up the suitcase, took a small flat wooden plate
from the table and returned to the center of the room.

"On this," he said, holding up the plate, "there rests at this moment the air of this planet
and nothing else. But in a minute or two--for each of you, in his or her world of subjective
reality--something else will appear on it."

The students nodded comprehendingly. So far, the experiment was on familiar ground. Dr. Ormond
gave them all a good-humored wink.

"To emphasize," he went on, "that we deal here with practical, down-to-earth, real matters
... not some mystical nonsense ... to emphasize that, let us say that the object each of you
will visualize on this plate will be--a ham sandwich!"

There were appreciative chuckles. But Cavender felt a twinge of annoyance. At the moment, when
along with fighting off fatigue he'd been trying to forget that he hadn't eaten since noon,
Dr. Al's choice looked like an unfortunate one. Cavender happened to be very fond of ham.

"Now here," Ormond continued, putting the plate down, "is where this experiment begins to differ
from anything we have done before. For all of us will try to imagine--to visualize as being
on this plate--the same ham sandwich. And so there will be no conflict in our projections,
let's decide first on just what ingredients we want to put on it." He smiled. "We'll make this
the finest ham sandwich our collective imagination can produce!"

There were more chuckles. Cavender cursed under his breath, his mouth beginning to water. Suggestions
came promptly.

"Mustard?" Dr. Ormond said, "Of course--Not too sharp though, Eleanor?" He smiled at Mrs. Folsom.
"I agree! A light touch of delicate salad mustard. Crisp lettuce ... finely chopped gherkins.
Very well!"

"Put it all on rye," Cavender said helplessly. "Toasted rye."

"Toasted rye?" Ormond smiled at him, looked around. "Any objections? No? Toasted rye it shall
be, Wally. And I believe that completes our selection."

He paused, his face turning serious. "Now as to that word of caution I gave you. For three
minutes each of you will visualize the object we have chosen on the plate I will be holding
up before me. You will do this with your eyes open, and to each of you, in your own subjective
reality, the object will become, as you know, more or less clearly discernible.

"But let me tell you this. Do not be too surprised if at the end of that time, when the exercise
is over, the object remains visible to you ... does not disappear!"

There was silence for a moment. Then renewed chuckles, but slightly nervous ones, and not too many.

Dr. Ormond said sternly, "I am serious about that! The possibility, though it may be small
tonight, is there. You have learned that, by the laws of Insight, any image of subjective reality,
if it can be endowed with all the attributes of objective reality by its human creator, must
spontaneously become an image in objective reality!

"In this case, our collective ham sandwich, if it were perfectly visualized, could not only
be seen by you but felt, its weight and the texture of each of its ingredients perceived, their
appetizing fragrance savored"--Cavender groaned mentally--"and more: if one of you were to
eat this sandwich, he would find it exactly as nourishing as any produced by the more ordinary
methods of objective reality.

"There are people in the world today," Dr. Ormond concluded, speaking very earnestly now, "who
can do this! There always have been people who could do this. And you are following in their
footsteps, being trained in even more advanced skills. I am aware to a greater extent than
any of you of the latent power that is developing--has developed--in this group. Tonight, for
the first time, that power will be focused, drawn down to a pinpoint, to accomplish one task.

"Again, I do not say that at the end of our exercise a ham sandwich will lie on this plate.
Frankly, I don't expect it. But I suggest very strongly that you don't let it surprise or startle
you too much if we find it here!"

There was dead stillness when he finished speaking. Cavender had a sense that the lecture room
had come alive with eerie little chills. Dr. Ormond lifted the plate solemnly up before him,
holding it between the fingertips of both hands.

"Now, if you will direct your attention here ... no, Eleanor, with your eyes open!

"Let us begin...."

       *       *       *       *       *

