And this was precisely the condition of the French Empire. Germany perhaps had one surprise,
at the sudden adoption of the pretext for war. But the Empire has known nothing but surprise.
A fatal surprise was the promptitude with which all the German States, outside of Austrian
rule, accepted the leadership of Prussia, and joined their forces to hers. Differences were
forgotten,--whether the hate of Hanover, the dread of Wuertemberg, the coolness of Bavaria,
the opposition of Saxony, or the impatience of the Hanse Towns at lost importance. Hanover
would not rise; the other States and cities would not be detached. On the day after the reading
of the War Manifesto at the French tribune, even before the King's speech to the Northern Parliament,
the Southern States began to move. German unity stood firm, and this was the supreme surprise
for France with which the war began. On one day the Emperor in his Official Journal declares
his object to be the deliverance of Bavaria from Prussian oppression, and on the very next
day the Crown Prince of Prussia, at the head of Bavarian troops, crushes an Imperial army.

Then came the manifest inferiority of the Imperial army, everywhere outnumbered, which was
another surprise,--the manifest inferiority of the Imperial artillery, also a surprise,--the
manifest inferiority of the Imperial generals, still a surprise. Above these was a prevailing
inefficiency and improvidence, which very soon became conspicuous, and this was a surprise.
The strength of Germany, as now exhibited, was a surprise. And when the German armies entered
France, every step was a surprise. Wissembourg was a surprise; so was Woerth; so was Beaumont;
so was Sedan. Every encounter was a surprise. Abel Douay, the French general, who fell bravely
fighting at Wissembourg, the first sacrifice on the battle-field, was surprised; so was MacMahon,
not only at the beginning, but at the end. He thought that the King and Crown Prince were marching
on Paris. So they were,--but they turned aside for a few days to surprise a whole army of more
than, a hundred thousand men, terrible with cannon and newly invented implements of war, under
a Marshal of France, and with an Emperor besides. As this succession of surprises was crowned
with what seemed the greatest surprise of all, there remained a greater still in the surprise
of the French Empire. No Greek Nemesis with unrelenting hand ever dealt more incessantly the
unavoidable blow, until the Empire fell as a dead body falls, while the Emperor became a captive
and the Empress a fugitive, with their only child a fugitive also. The poet says:--

"Sometime let gorgeous Tragedy In sceptred pall come sweeping by."[Footnote: Milton, II Penseroso,
97-98.]

It has swept before the eyes of all. Beneath that sceptred pall is the dust of a great Empire,
founded and ruled by Louis Napoleon; if not the dust of the Emperor also, it is because he
was willing to sacrifice others rather than himself.

OTHER FRENCH SOVEREIGNS CAPTURED ON THE BATTLE-FIELD.

Twice before have French sovereigns yielded on the battle-field, and become prisoners of war;
but never before was capitulation so vast. Do their fates furnish any lesson? At the Battle
of Poitiers, memorable in English history, John, King of France, became the prisoner of Edward
the Black Prince. His nobles, one after another, fell by his side, but he contended valiantly
to the last, until, spent with fatigue and over-come by numbers, he surrendered. His son, of
the same age as the son of the French Emperor, was wounded while battling for his father. The
courtesy of the English Prince conquered more than his arms. "[Footnote: History of England,
(Oxford, 1826,) Cli. XVI., Vol. II. p. 407.]

The King was taken to England, where, after swelling the triumphal pageant of his conqueror,
he made a disgraceful treaty for the dismemberment of France, which the indignant nation would
not ratify. A captivity of more than four years was terminated by a ransom of three million
crowns in gold,--an enormous sum, more than ten million dollars in our day. Evidently the King
was unfortunate, for he did not continue in France, but, under the influence of motives differently
stated, returned to England, where he died. Surely here is a lesson.

More famous than John was Francis, with salamander crest, also King of France, and rich in
gayety, whose countenance, depicted by that art of which he was the patron, stands forth conspicuous
in the line of kings. As the French Emperor attacked Germany, so did the King enter Italy,
and he was equally confident of victory. On the field of Favia he encountered an army of Charles
the Fifth, but commanded by his generals, when, after fighting desperately and killing seven
men with his own hand, he was compelled to surrender. His mother was at the time Regent of
France, and to her he is said to have written the sententious letter, "All is lost except honor."
No such letter was written by Francis,[Footnote: Sismondi, Histoire des Francais, Tom. XVI.
pp. 241-42. Martin, Histoire de France, (genie edit.,) Tom. VIII. pp. 67, 68.] nor do we know
of any such letter by Louis Napoleon; but the situation of the two Regents was identical. [Footnote:
History of England, (Oxford, 1826,) Ch. XXIX., Vol. IV. p. 51.]

Francis became the prisoner of Charles the Fifth, and was conveyed to Madrid, where, after
a year of captivity, he was at length released, crying out, as he crossed the French frontier,
"Behold me King again!" [Footnote: Sismondi, Tom. XVI. p. 277. Martin, Tom. VIII. p. 90.] Is
not the fate of Louis Napoleon prefigured in the exile and death of his royal predecessor John,
rather than in the return of Francis with his delighted cry?

LOUIS NAPOLEON.

The fall of Louis Napoleon is natural. It is hard to see how it could be otherwise, so long
as we continue to "assert eternal Providence, And justify the ways of God to men." [Footnote:
Paradise Lost, Book I. 25-26.]

Had he remained successful to the end, and died peacefully on the throne, his name would have
been a perpetual encouragement to dishonesty and crime. By treachery without parallel, breaking
repeated promises and his oath of office, he was able to trample on the Republic. Taking his
place in the National Assembly after long exile, the adventurer made haste to declare exultation
in regaining his country and all his rights as citizen, with the ejaculation, "The Republic
has given me this happiness: let the Republic receive my oath of gratitude, my oath of devotion!"--and
next he proclaimed that there was nobody to surpass him in determined consecration "to the
defence of order and to the establishment of the Republic." [Footnote: Seance du 26 Septembre
1848: Moniteur, 27 Septembre.] Good words these. Then again, when candidate for the Presidency,
in a manifesto to the electors he gave another pledge, announcing that he "would devote himself
altogether, without mental reservation, to the establishment of a Republic, wise in its laws,
honest in its intentions, great and strong in its acts"; and he volunteered further words,
binding him in special loyalty, saying that he "should make it a point of honor to leave to
his successor, at the end of four years, power strengthened, liberty intact, real progress
accomplished." [Footnote: A ses Concitoyens: OEuvres, Tom. III. p. 25.] How these plain and
unequivocal engagements were openly broken you shall see.

Chosen by the popular voice, his inauguration took place as President of the Republic, when
he solemnly renewed the engagements already assumed. Ascending from his seat in the Assembly
to the tribune, and holding up his hand, he took the following oath of office: "In presence
of God, and before the French people, represented by the National Assembly, I swear to remain
faithful to the Democratic Republic One and Indivisible, and to fulfil all the duties which
the Constitution imposes upon me." This was an oath. Then, addressing the Assembly, he said:"
The suffrages of the nation and the oath which I have just taken prescribe my future conduct.
My duty is marked out. I will fulfil it as a man of honor." Again he attests his honor. Then,
after deserved tribute to his immediate predecessor and rival, General Cavaignac, on his loyalty
of character, and that sentiment of duty which he declares to be "the first quality in the
chief of a State," he renews his vows to the Republic, saying, "We have, Citizen Representatives,
a great mission to fulfil; it is to found a Republic in the interest of all"; and he closed
amidst cheers for the Republic.[Footnote: Seance de 20 Decembre 1848: Moniteur, 21 Decembre.]
And yet, in the face of this oath of office and this succession of most solemn pledges, where
he twice attests his honor, he has hardly become President before he commences plotting to
make himself Emperor, until, at last, by violence and blood, with brutal butchery in the streets
of Paris, he succeeded in overthrowing the Republic, to which he was bound by obligations of
gratitude and duty, as well as by engagements in such various form. The Empire was declared.
Then followed his marriage, and a dynastic ambition to assure the crown for his son.

Early in life a "Charcoal" conspirator against kings, [Footnote: A member of the secret society
of the Ciram in Italy.] he now became a crowned conspirator against republics. The name of
Republic was to him a reproof, while its glory was a menace. Against the Roman Republic he
conspired early; and when the rebellion waged by Slavery seemed to afford opportunity, he conspired
against our Republic, promoting as far as he dared the independence of the Slave States, and
at the same time on the ruins of the Mexican Republic setting up a mock Empire. In similar
spirit has he conspired against German Unity, whose just strength promised to be a wall against
his unprincipled self-seeking.

This is but an outline of that incomparable perfidy, which, after a career of seeming success,
is brought to a close. Of a fallen man I would say nothing; but, for the sake of Humanity,
Louis Napoleon should be exposed. He was of evil example, extending with his influence. To
measure the vastness of this detriment is impossible. In sacrificing the Republic to his own
aggrandizement, in ruling for a dynasty rather than the people, in subordinating the peace
of the world to his own wicked ambition for his boy, he set an example of selfishness, and
in proportion to his triumph was mankind corrupted in its judgment of human conduct. Teaching
men to seek ascendency at the expense of duty, he demoralized not only France, but the world.
Unquestionably part of this evil example was his falsehood to the Republic. Promise, pledge,
honor, oath, were all violated in this monstrous treason. Never in history was greater turpitude.
Unquestionably he could have saved the Republic, but he preferred his own exaltation. As I
am a Republican, and believe republican institutions for the good of mankind, I cannot pardon
the traitor. The people of France are ignorant; he did not care to have them educated, for
their ignorance was his strength. With education bestowed, the Republic would have been assured.
And even after the Empire, had he thought more of education and less of his dynasty, there
would have been a civilization throughout France making war impossible. Unquestionably the
present war is his work, instituted for his imagined advantage. Bacon, in one of his remarkable
Essays, tells us that "Extreme self-lovers will set an house on fire, and it were but to roast
their eggs." [Footnote: Of Wisdom for a Man's Self: Essay XXIII.] Louis Napoleon has set Europe
on fire to roast his.

Beyond the continuing offence of his public life, I charge upon him three special and unpardonable
crimes: first, that violation of public duty and public faith, contrary to all solemnities
of promise, by which the whole order of society was weakened and human character was degraded;
secondly, disloyalty to republican institutions, so that through him the Republic has been
arrested in Europe; and, thirdly, this cruel and causeless war, of which he is the guilty author.

RETRIBUTION.

Of familiar texts in Scripture, there is one which, since the murderous outbreak, has been
of constant applicability and force. You know it: "All they that take the sword shall perish
with the sword"; [Footnote: Matthew, xxvi. 52.] and these words are addressed to nations as
to individuals. France took the sword against Germany, and now lies bleeding at every pore.
Louis Napoleon took the sword, and is nought. Already in that coup d'etat by which he overthrew
the Republic he took the sword, and now the Empire, which was the work of his hands, expires.
In Mexico again he took the sword, and again paid the fearful penalty,--while the Austrian
Archduke, who, yielding to his pressure, made himself Emperor there, was shot by order of the
Mexican President, an Indian of unmixed blood. And here there was retribution, not only for
the French Emperor, but far beyond. I know not if there be invisible threads by which the Present
is attached to the distant Past, making the descendant suffer even for a distant ancestor,
but I cannot forget that Maximilian was derived from that very family of Charles the Fifth,
whose conquering general, Cortes, stretched the Indian Guatemozin upon a bed of fire, and afterwards
executed him on a tree. The death of Maximilian was tardy retribution for the death of Guatemozin.
And thus in this world is wrong avenged, sometimes after many generations. The fall of the
French Emperor is an illustration of that same retribution which is so constant. While he yet
lives, judgment has begun.

If I accumulate instances, it is because the certainty of retribution for wrong, and especially
for the great wrong of War, is a lesson of the present duel to be impressed. Take notice, all
who would appeal to war, that the way of the transgressor is hard, and sooner or later he is
overtaken. The ban may fall tardily, but it is sure to fall.

