 She has never thrown someone away, that's true. For those
who submit cannot throw away, and the loyalty to the feeling is more important than the loyalty
to the person.

It was now eleven o'clock, and the three hotel residents took their leave of Lamberg. They stood
on the balcony for a long time, listening to their voice echoing in the night. Somewhere down
the road, a cart rattled. George Vincent went outside and felt the grass; in finding it dry,
he quietly predicted bad weather for the following day. He then went to the upper floor of the
house and opened the door to a dark chamber. He exclaimed, "Quacola.
That was the name he had given to the chimpanzees."    The Vision                                21
Chapter V.     Difficulties                              25
Chapter VI.    Symbols                                   29
Chapter VII.   Some Experiences                          35
Chapter VIII.  Directions for Using the Ovoids and
               Spheres for Crystal or Mirror Vision      51
Chapter IX.    Consise Dictionary of Astrological Terms  53

CHAPTER I.

A POSTULATE

Any attempt at a scientific explanation of the phenomenon of "crystal seering," to use an irregular
but comprehensive term, would perhaps fall short of completeness, and certainly would depend
largely upon the exercise of what Professor Huxley was wont to call "the scientific imagination."
The reasons for this are obvious. We know comparatively little about atomic structure in relation
to nervous organism. We are informed to a certain degree upon atomic ratios; we know that all
bodies are regarded by the physicist as a congeries of atoms, and that these atoms are "centres
of force." Had they not been men of taste and spirit, it would cause offense
can easily transfer Franziska. No one had security; who came to the series, which was put out prior
knowledge of the illusory his right. Generally makes the possession of other things, here,
where the profit has caused the loss, the uncertainty was always good again slippage double life. Frank
had the gift of one of them granted, it would grow no concern for others, and the elect would
have dispensed with the peace of indifference not last long. Thus, the receiving gifts and Beraubtwerden
the same amount of significant pain. Frank remained as lost.

Among her numerous acquaintances, no one had heard of her, and the vacation they took from the theater
had long been exceeded. It was said that the prince had Armansperg can do about Riccardo Troyer
extensive research which led to a questionable result. Gradually, it also was silent. In July, Hadwiger
held some time in Paris and heard that Troyer during the Spanish-Moroccan War as an agent of
an English rifle factory in Madrid had worked, that he committed fraud and had been chased
from the country. Hadwin could not forget he was not able to find their way into the Irrevocable.
He resented the good fortune his mind was darkened, and removed to the mind games to be, he worked
day and night. But quite apart from the
scale or range of perception, the quality of a sense-impression is found to vary with different
persons. By this we mean that the same body will affect different persons in dissimilar manner.
Hence arises the variety of "tastes" in regard to forms, colours, flavours, scents, sounds,
fabrics, etc., what is agreeable to one being highly objectionable to another. The experience
is to common to need illustration; but the conclusion to which we are led is that, in relation
to the nervous system of man, every material body has a variable effect. And this clears the
ground for a statement of our views in regard to the Crystal and its effects upon the seer.
It is capable of taking up, sympathetically, the vibrations of those bodies or elements to
which it is temporarily related. But of itself it has no activity, although in its still, well-like,
and calm depths it holds the potentiality of all magnetic forces. This Odyle, then, is particularly
potent in the quartz or beryl, when brought into activity by the intention of the seer. It
produces and retains more readily in that form the various images communicated to it from the
soul of man.

It need not, then, be a matter of surprise to learn that the Crystal exerts a very definite
and sensible effect upon the nervous system of a certain order of subjects. It does not affect
all alike, nor act in exactly the same way on those whom it does so affect. Where its action
is more or less rapid and remarkable, the quartz or beryl Crystal may be taken as the most
effective medium for producing the vision. In some other cases, again, a bowl of water is sufficient.

In cases like the above it may be said that the clairvoyant faculty is constitutional and already
fully developed, waiting only the circumstances which shall serve to bring it into active play,
Emanuel Swedenborg, if we remember rightly, was 54 years of age before he awoke to the consciousness
of his spiritual vision.

The medium employed for inducing the clairvoyant state cannot be definitely prescribed. It
must remain a matter of experiment for each investigator.

That there are some in whom the psychic faculties are more prone to activity than in others
is certain, as also some in whom these powers are native, by spiritual or hereditary succession;
all of which may be determined from their genitures by the astrological art. 

He succeeded, the director of one of the first theater for Frank to inspire participation.
Her debut was a triumph. The poetry of her smile, her gesture, her attitude gave of mediocre
comedy an appearance of profundity and Elan, and even those who use their Beauty at the expense
of their talent praised acknowledged, that of personalized spells like genius WOULD. Borsati took
his mind of moving when he did admit to his younger friend, but Cajetan alternately selfish heart
had recently lit for another, and after the two spoken to today, it was Borsati soon to acquire
Franziska's favor. He rose them by wearing them and encouraged them by their homage. It was
a delicate relationship and full of camaraderie, but it could satisfy the thirst for life of
the young girl does not, still lower, she was always as if a lot, as if they missed anything,
and the more they matured to the woman, the impetuous she was invited to the call of their shapeless,
but fiery dreams to follow.

On any given evening in each week were found at Frank Cajetan and George Vincent and Borsati,
and with good food and excellent wines they chatted often half Night. One day, a strange young
man with Borsati to this symposium, a People not very well maintained exterior and angular
behavior, which Heinrich Hadwiger called and engineer. Of the estranged companions made later
than six eyes to speech, Borsati said that he appreciated Hadwiger, and that it its haughty restraint
all the more estimate values ​​can appear. His youth and hostile odds, had Hadwiger awarded the
contract to build a new mountain railway in the south of the kingdom, and his bold project was
the amazement of experts. For the poor conditions of a Westphalian Carbon originating village,
was all he had, and imagining an enormous achievement Diligence and an unprecedented force of will. Initially,
the bad official paid a English machine factory, he had volunteered to be a delicate mission
and was sent to Egypt and Brazil, to introduce the then new steam plows, what was only after
great difficulty and adventurous hardships. A bridge construction in State of Illinois had
made him famous, and he now counted among the first in his field. Much was known of him, but
was without a doubt in his past, something he does not tell liked and what pursued him, which
betrayed his eye and his silence.

Soon to be needed Hadwiger not only tolerated, he was in the middle
of the friends friend them.

Certainly his feeling was sometimes cramped, a man who once fought for bread has, with scars
in the mind to begin to bleed in the circle of careless secretly. His fluctuating mood suggested
a disgruntled soul, his hatred quickly forced to Caution against his sentence. Sometimes it
excited laughter, more smiles. Like most Upstarts, he was naive and complacent, and he could
in such a comprehensive way Praise that the audience laughed with all due respect if her heart.

Frank
also found it amusing, but it was his growing devotion to always prefer fallen. He belonged, in
their opinion not to the men you love, and his deep devotion rewarded
them with confidence.



Self-possession and confidence in one's own soul-faculties must be the firm rock upon which
all revelations should rest.

CHAPTER III.

PRELIMINARIES

Having obtained a good Crystal, as free as possible from blemish, care must be taken to keep
it is much as possible in a dark place when not in use. The best covering therefore is a black
one of soft material, such as velvet, which will not scratch the polished surface of the quartz.[*]
Exposure to the sun's rays not only scores the faces of the crystal, but also puts the odylic
substance into activity, distributing and dissipating the magnetic force stored up therein.
It must not be understood that the visions are in the crystal itself. They are in the soul
of the seer. But the odylic substance is acted upon by the nervo-vital emanations of the body
of the seer, and reacts upon the brain centres by means of the optic nerves. That is why it
is necessary to keep the crystal as free as possible from disturbing elements. For the same
reason, when in use, the crystal should be overshadowed by the seer, and so placed that no
direct rays of light from sun, or lamp, or gasalier may fall upon it. As she once wanted to bring Hadwiger to his senses, she assured him, that they
hardly even know what she would drive, perhaps it was the death, every thought the death drive
them wild into life. Years ago she was dancing at a country wedding, while in the village began to
burn the houses, women and men were hurried away, but they had a Geiger tossed a gold piece,
and that he played on and with her dancers still swung until the firelight blazed close to the
windows. Since no missing the train
Nature but they are mainly the idea of ​​a pedestal. "

"One is convinced that the load weighs not for that tank," said Cajetan.

Me, "seems at times," interjected Borsati, "that the Face of Aphrodite by a pale Gloss of the
color of the other cast takes off. "

Lamberg replied that he had
also been observed. "But I do not know just what this, the Time has
inflicted, "he continued.tinued.
A recorder should be at hand to set down everything the seer may give voice to. If any questions
are addressed to the seer while the sitting is in progress, they should be spoken in an undertone
and as nearly a monotone as may be so that the seer is not suddenly surprised into consciousness
of his surroundings, and the psychic thread thereby broken.

