A British artillery officer conversing with a member of the American Syndicate at a London
club, said to him:--

"Do you know that you made a great mistake in the beginning of your operations with the motor-guns?
If you had contrived an attachment to the motor which should have made an infernal thunder-clap
and a storm of smoke at the moment of discharge it would have saved you a lot of money and
time and trouble.  The work of the motor on the Canadian coast was terrible enough, but people
could see no connection between that and the guns on your vessels.  If you could have sooner
shown that connection you might have saved yourselves the trouble of crossing the Atlantic.
And, to prove this, one of the most satisfactory points connected with your work on the Welsh
coast was the jet of smoke which came from the repeller every time she discharged a motor.
If it had not been for those jets, I believe there would be people now in the opposition who
would swear that Caerdaff had been mined, and that the Ministry were a party to it."

"Your point is well taken," said the American, "and should it ever be necessary to discharge
any more bombs,--which I hope it may not be,--we shall take care to show a visible and audible
connection between cause and effect."

"The devil take it, sir!" cried an old captain of an English ship-of-the-line, who was sitting
near by.  "What you are talking about is not  war!  We might as well send out a Codfish Trust
to settle national disputes.  In the next sea-fight we'll save ourselves the trouble of gnawing
and crunching at the sterns of the enemy.  We'll simply send a note aboard requesting the foreigner
to be so good as to send us his rudder by bearer, which, if properly marked and numbered, will
be returned to him on the conclusion of peace.  This would do just as well as twisting it off,
and save expense.  No, sir, I will not join you in a julep!  I have made no alliance over new-fangled
inventions! Waiter, fetch me some rum and hot water!"

In the midst of the profound satisfaction with which the members of the American War Syndicate
regarded the success of their labours,--labours alike profitable to themselves and to the recently
contending nations,--and in the gratified pride with which they received the popular and official
congratulations which were showered upon them, there was but one little cloud, one regret.

In the course of the great Syndicate War a life had been lost.  Thomas Hutchins, while assisting
in the loading of coal on one of the repellers, was accidentally killed by the falling of a
derrick.

The Syndicate gave a generous sum to the family of the unfortunate man, and throughout the
United States the occurrence occasioned a deep feeling of sympathetic regret.  A popular subscription
was started to build a monument to the memory of Hutchins, and contributions came, not only
from all parts of the United States, but from many persons in Great Britain who wished to assist
in the erection of this tribute to the man who had fallen in the contest which had been of
as much benefit to their country as to his own.

Some weeks after the conclusion of the treaty, a public question was raised, which at first
threatened to annoy the American Government; but it proved to be of little moment.  An anti-Administration
paper in Peakville, Arkansas, asserted that in the whole of the published treaty there was
not one word in regard to the fisheries question, the complications arising from which had
been the cause of the war.  Other papers took up the matter, and the Government then discovered
that in drawing up the treaty the fisheries business had been entirely overlooked.  There was
a good deal of surprise in official circles when this discovery was announced; but as it was
considered that the fisheries question was one which would take care of itself, or be readily
disposed of in connection with a number of other minor points which remained to be settled
between the two countries, it was decided to take no notice of the implied charge of neglect,
and to let the matter drop.  And as the opposition party took no real interest in the question,
but little more was said about it.

Both countries were too well satisfied with the general result to waste time or discussion
over small matters.  Great Britain had lost some forts and some ships; but these would have
been comparatively useless in the new system of warfare.  On the other hand, she had gained,
not only the incalculable advantage of the alliance, but a magnificent and unsurpassed landlocked
basin on the coast of Wales.

The United States had been obliged to pay an immense sum on account of the contract with the
War Syndicate, but this was considered money so well spent, and so much less than an ordinary
war would have cost, that only the most violent anti-Administration journals ever alluded to it.

Reduction of military and naval forces, and gradual disarmament, was now the policy of the
allied nations.  Such forces and such vessels as might be demanded for the future operations
of the War Syndicate were retained.  A few field batteries of motor-guns were all that would
be needed on land, and a comparatively small number of armoured ships would suffice to carry
the motor-guns that would be required at sea.

Now there would be no more mere exhibitions of the powers of the instantaneous motor-bomb.
Hereafter, if battles must be fought, they would be battles of annihilation.

This is the history of the Great Syndicate War.  Whether or not the Anglo-American Syndicate
was ever called upon to make war, it is not to be stated here.  But certain it is that after
the formation of this Syndicate all the nations of the world began to teach English in their
schools, and the Spirit of Civilization raised her head with a confident smile.