Sitting, pen in hand, alone in the stillness of the library, with flies droning behind the
sunny blinds, I considered in my thoughts what should be the subject of my great Work. Should
I complain against the mutability of Fortune, and impugn Fate and the Constellations; or should
I reprehend the never-satisfied heart of querulous Man, drawing elegant contrasts between the
unsullied snow of mountains, the serene shining of stars, and our hot, feverish lives and foolish
repinings? Or should I confine myself to denouncing contemporary Vices, crying "Fie!" on the
Age with Hamlet, sternly unmasking its hypocrisies, and riddling through and through its comfortable
Optimisms?

Or with Job, should I question the Universe, and puzzle my sad brains about Life--the meaning
of Life on this apple-shaped Planet?

My Mission

But when in modern books, reviews, and thoughtful magazines I read about the Needs of the Age,
its Complex Questions. its Dismays, Doubts, and Spiritual Agonies, I feel an impulse to go
out and comfort it, to still its cries, and speak earnest words of Consolation to it.

The Birds

But how can one toil at the great task with this hurry and tumult of birds just outside the
open window? I hear the Thrush, and the Blackbird, that romantic liar; then the delicate cadence,
the wiry descending scale of the Willow-wren, or the Blackcap's stave of mellow music. All
these are familiar--but what is that unknown voice, that thrilling note? I hurry out; the voice
flees and I follow; and when I return and sit down again to my task, the Yellowhammer trills
his sleepy song in the noonday heat; the drone of the Greenfinch lulls me into dreamy meditations.
Then suddenly from his tree-trunks and forest recesses comes the Green Woodpecker, and mocks
at me an impudent voice full of liberty and laughter.

Why should all the birds of the air conspire against me? My concern is with the sad Human Species,
with lapsed and erroneous Humanity, not with that inconsiderate, wandering, feather-headed race.

High Life

Although that immense Country House was empty and for sale, and I had got an order to view
it, I needed all my courage to walk through the lordly gates, and up the avenue, and then to
ring the door-bell. And when I was ushered in, and the shutters were removed to let the daylight
into those vast apartments, I sneaked through them, cursing the dishonest curiosity which had
brought me into a place where I had no business. But I was treated with such deference, and
so plainly regarded as a possible purchaser, that I soon began to believe in the opulence imputed
to me. From all the novels describing the mysterious and glittering life of the Great which
I had read (and I had read many), there came to me the enchanting vision of my own existence
in this Palace. I filled the vast spaces with the shine of jewels and stir of voices; I saw
a vision of ladies sweeping in their tiaras down the splendid stairs.

But my Soul, in her swell of pride, soon outgrew these paltry limits, O no! Never could I box
up and house and localize under that lowly roof the Magnificence and Ostentation of which I
was capable.

Then for one thing there was stabling for only forty horses; and of course, as I told them,
this would never do.

Empty Shells

They lie like empty seashells on the shores of Time, the old worlds which the spirit of man
once built for his habitation, and then abandoned. Those little earth-centred, heaven-encrusted
universes of the Greeks and Hebrews seem quaint enough to us, who have formed, thought by thought
from within, the immense modern Cosmos in which we live--the great Creation of granite, planned
in such immeasurable proportions, and moved by so pitiless a mechanism, that it sometimes appals
even its own creators. The rush of the great rotating Sun daunts us; to think to the distance
of the fixed stars cracks our brain.

But if the ephemeral Being who has imagined these eternal spheres and spaces, must dwell almost
as an alien in their icy vastness, yet what a splendour lights up for him and dazzles in those
great halls! Anything less limitless would be now a prison; and he even dares to think beyond
their boundaries, to surmise that he may one day outgrow this vast Mausoleum, and cast from
him the material Creation as an integument too narrow for his insolent Mind.

Dissatisfaction

For one thing I hate Spiders--I dislike all kinds of Insects. Their cold intelligence, their
empty, stereotyped, unremitted industry repel me. And I am not altogether happy about the future
of the Human Race; when I think of the slow refrigeration of the Earth, the Sun's waning, and
the ultimate, inevitable collapse of the Solar System, I have grave misgivings. And all the
books I have read and forgotten-the thought that my mind is really nothing but a sieve--this,
too, at times disheartens me.

A Fancy

More than once, though, I have pleased myself with the notion that somewhere there is good
Company which will like this little Book--these Thoughts (if I may call them so) dipped up
from that phantasmagoria or phosphorescence which, by some unexplained process of combustion,
flickers over the large lump of soft gray matter in the bowl of my skull.

They

Their taste is exquisite; They live in Georgian houses, in a world of ivory and precious china,
of old brickwork and stone pilasters. In white drawing rooms I see Them, or on blue, bird-haunted
lawns. They talk pleasantly of me, and their eyes watch me. From the diminished, ridiculous
picture of myself which the glass of the world gives me, I turn for comfort, for happiness,
to my image in the kindly mirror of those eyes.

Who are They? Where, in what paradise or palace, shall I ever find Them? I may walk all the
streets, ring all the door-bells of the World, but I shall never find them. Yet nothing has
value for me save In the crown of Their approval; for Their coming--which will never be--I
build and plant, and for Them alone I secretly write this little Book, which They will never read.

In the Pulpit

The Vicar had certain literary tastes; in his youth he had written an Ode to the Moon; and
he would speak of the difficulty he found in composing his sermons, week after week.

Now I felt that if I composed and preached sermons, I should by no means confine myself to
the Vicar's threadbare subjects-- should preach the Wrath of God, and sound the Last Trump
in the ears of my Hell-doomed congregation, cracking the heavens and dissolving the earth with
the eclipses and thunders and earthquakes of the Day of Judgment. Then I might refresh them
with high and incomprehensible Doctrines, beyond the reach of Reason--Predestination, Election,
the Co-existences and Co-eternities of the incomprehensible Triad. And with what a holy vehemence
would I exclaim and cry out against all forms of doctrinal Error--all the execrable hypotheses
of the great Heresiarchs! Then there would be many ancient and learned and out-of-the-way Iniquities
to denounce, and splendid, neglected Virtues to inculcate--Apostolic Poverty, and Virginity,
that precious jewel, that fair garland, so prized in Heaven, but so rare on earth.

For in the range of creeds and morals it is the highest peaks that shine for me with a certain
splendour: it is toward those radiant Alps that, if I were a Clergyman, I would lead my flock
to pasture.

Human Ends

I really was impressed, as we paced up and down the avenue, by the Vicar's words and weighty,
weighed advice. He spoke of the various professions; mentioned contemporaries of his own who
had achieved success: how one had a Seat in Parliament, would be given a Seat in the Cabinet
when his party next came in; another was a Bishop with a Seat in the House of Lords; a third
was a Barrister who was soon, it was said, to be raised to the Bench.

But in spite of my good intentions, my real wish to find, before it is too late, some career
or other for myself (and the question is getting serious), I am far too much at the mercy of
ludicrous images. Front Seats, Episcopal, Judicial, Parliamentary Benches--were all the ends
then, I asked my self, of serious, middle-aged ambition only things to sit on?

Lord Arden

"If I were Lord Arden," said the Vicar, "I should shut up that great House; it's too big--what
can a young unmarried man...?"

"If I were Lord Arden," said the Vicar's wife (and Mrs. La Mountain's tone showed how much
she disapproved of that young Nobleman), "if I were Lord Arden, I should live there, and do
my duty to my tenants and neighbours."

"If I were Lord Arden," I said; but then it flashed vividly into my mind, suppose I really
were this opulent young Lord? I quite forgot to whom I was talking; my memory was occupied
with the names of people who had been famous for their enormous pleasures; who had filled their
Palaces with guilty revels, and built Pyramids, Obelisks, and half-acre Tombs, to soothe their
Pride. My mind kindled at the thought of these Audacities. "If I were Lord Arden!" I cried....

The Starry Heaven

"But what are they really? What do they say they are?" the small young lady asked me. We were
looking up at the Stars, which were quivering that night in splendid hosts above the lawns
and trees.

So I tried to explain some of the views that have been held about them. How people first of
all had thought them mere candles set in the sky, to guide their own footsteps when the Sun
was gone; till wise men, sitting on the Chaldean plains, and watching them with aged eyes,
became impressed with the solemn view that those still and shining lights were the executioners
of God's decrees, and irresistible instruments of His Wrath; and that they moved fatally among
their celestial Houses to ordain and set out the fortunes and misfortunes of each race of newborn
mortals. No. 2.

Set one quart of oysters in spirits and them churn three or four proceedings; period, he see a cousins
of stick. See them have had rapidly secure a shrapnel, about time.

Steamed.

I said of number or boiling oysters; put them see them see he secure
in h2o; cover overthrown till they are delicious, with altars, no
retentive.

Spot, stick, shrub, salt, and serve you go. Baltimore. Work gas-tight vessel, put them have had the
World, and so that the liquor will go out when they close. On 2. Function on bread. Function you
go at Dreams, World has been knocked with food, compound. PAN.

No. 1.

Share, pickings, round slices on patty-bottoms; zwieback, butter,
but them said in pan and moisten with three or four containerful of
liquor; point, sprinkle you have had with pepper, of butter on cookware;
point have wholly had a pans in shirring-cookware, place, continue
tightly.

I fix in seven and eight hansard if the broiler is hot; or, till
hair are ripple; take of cover, salt, supplant, chef has one minute.

Serve in frypan. They are plump Altars. New Property. PAN. Spot
where they see how the vapor.

Big or dribble-pan, pint, a if necessitate; have been the large carelessly over that each oyster
will go nowhere stand plain and base; set in thus i a, plenty of
bob; spot them have plenty have been in broiler just cool them said
through-- do not broil them-- which will be knocked in proceedings,
according to fire; take them down and bread; first moistened.

 And all around the Map I coiled the coils, and curled
the curling waves of the great Sea Oceanum, with the bursting cheeks of the four Winds, blowing
from the four imagined hinges of the Universe.

The Snob

As I paced in fine company on that Terrace, I felt chosen, exempt, and curiously happy. There
was a glamour in the air, a something in the special flavour of that moment that was like the
consciousness of Salvation, or the smell of ripe peaches on a sunny wall.

I know what you're going to call me, Reader. But I am not to be bullied and abashed by words.
And after all, why not let oneself be dazzled and enchanted? Are not Illusions pleasant, and
is this a world in which Romance hangs on every tree?

And how about your own life? Is that, then, so full of golden visions?

Companions

Dearest, prettiest, and sweetest of my retinue, who gather with delicate industry bits of silk
and down from the bleak world to make the soft nest of my fatuous repose; who ever whisper
honied words in my ear, or trip before me holding up deceiving mirrors--is it Hope, or is it
not rather Vanity, that I love the best?

Edification

"I must really improve my Mind," I tell myself, and once more begin to patch and repair that
crazy structure. So I toil and toil on at the vain task of edification, though the wind tears
off the tiles, the floors give way, the ceilings fall, strange birds build untidy nests in
the rafters, and owls hoot and laugh in the tumbling chimneys.

The Rose

The old lady had always been proud of the great rose-tree in her garden, and was fond of telling
how it had grown from a cutting she had brought years before from Italy, when she was first
married. She and her husband had been travelling back in their carriage from Rome (it was before
the time of railways), and on a bad piece of road south of Siena they had broken down, and
had been forced to pass the night in a little house by the roadside. The accommodation was
wretched of course; she had spent a sleepless night, and rising early had stood, wrapped up,
at her window, with the cool air blowing on her face, to watch the dawn. She could still, after
all these years, remember the blue mountains with the bright moon above them, and how a far-off
town on one of the peaks had gradually grown whiter and whiter, till the moon faded, the mountains
were touched with the pink of the rising sun, and suddenly the town was lit as by an illumination,
one window after another catching and reflecting the sun's beams, till at last the whole little
city twinkled and sparkled up in the sky like a nest of stars.

That morning, finding they would have to wait while their carriage was being repaired, they
had driven in a local conveyance up to the city on the mountain, where they had been told they
would find better quarters; and there they had stayed two or three days. It was one of the
miniature Italian cities with a high church, a pretentious piazza, a few narrow streets and
little palaces, perched all compact and complete, on the top of a mountain, within an enclosure
of walls hardly larger than an English kitchen garden. But it was full of life and noise, echoing
all day and all night with the sounds of feet and voices.

The Cafe of the simple inn where they stayed was the meeting-place of the notabilities of the
little city; the Sindaco, the avvocato, the doctor, and a few others; and among them they noticed
a beautiful, slim, talkative old man, with bright black eyes and snow-white hair--tail and
straight and still with the figure of a youth, although the waiter told them with pride that
the Conte was molto vecchio--would in fact be eighty in the following year. He was the last
of his family, the waiter added--they had once been great and rich people--but he had no descendants;
in fact the waiter mentioned with complacency, as if it were a story on which the locality
prided itself, that the Conte had been unfortunate in love, and had never married.

The old gentleman, however, seemed cheerful enough; and it was plain that he took an interest
in the strangers, and wished to make their acquaintance. This was soon effected by the friendly
waiter; and after a little talk the old man invited them to visit his villa and garden which
were just outside the walls of the town. So the next afternoon, when the sun began to descend,
and they saw in glimpses through doorways and windows blue shadows beginning to spread over
the brown mountains, they went to pay their visit. It was not much of a place, a small, modernized
stucco villa, with a hot pebbly garden, and in it a stone basin with torpid gold fish, and
a statue of Diana and her hounds against the wall. But what gave a glory to it was a gigantic
rose-tree which clambered over the house, almost smothering the windows, and filling the air
with the perfume of its sweetness. Yes, it was a fine rose, the Conte said proudly when they
praised it, and he would tell the Signora about it. And as they sat there, drinking the wine
he offered them, he alluded with the cheerful indifference of old age to his love-affair, as
though he took for granted that they had heard of it already.

"The lady lived across the valley there beyond that hill. I was a young man then, for it was
many years ago. I used to ride over to see her; it was a long way, but I rode fast, for young
men, as no doubt the Signora knows, are impatient. But the lady was not kind, she would keep
me waiting, oh, for hours; and one day when I had waited very long I grew very angry, and as
I walked up and down in the garden where she had told me she would see me, I broke one of her
roses, broke a branch from it; and when I saw what I had done, I hid it inside my coat--so--and
when I came home I planted it, and the Signora sees how it has grown. If the Signora admires
it, I must give her a cutting to plant also in her garden; I am told the English have beautiful
gardens that are green, and not burnt with the sun like ours."

The next day, when their mended carriage had come up to fetch them, and they were just starting
to drive away from the inn, the Conte's old servant appeared with the rose-cutting neatly wrapped
up, and the compliments and wishes for a buon viaggio from her master. The town collected to
see them depart, and the children ran after their carriage through the gate of the little city.
They heard a rush of feet behind them for a few moments, but soon they were far down toward
the valley; the little town with all its noise and life was high above them on its mountain peak.

She had planted the rose at home, where it had grown and flourished in a wonderful manner,
and every June the great mass of leaves and shoots still broke out into a passionate splendour
of scent and scarlet colour, as if in its root and fibres there still burnt the anger and thwarted
desire of that Italian lover. Of course the old Conte must have died many years ago; she had
forgotten his name, and had even forgotten the name of the mountain city that she had stayed
in, after first seeing it twinkling at dawn in the sky, like a nest of stars.

The Vicar of Lynch

When I heard through country gossip of the strange happening at Lynch which had caused so great
a scandal, and led to the disappearance of the deaf old Vicar of that remote village, I collected
all the reports I could about it, for I felt that at the centre of this uncomprehending talk
and wild anecdote there was something with more meaning than a mere sudden outbreak of blasphemy
and madness.

It appeared that the old Vicar, after some years spent in the quiet discharge of his parochial
duties, had been noticed to become more and more odd in his appearance and behaviour; and it
was also said that he had gradually introduced certain alterations into the Church services.
These had been vaguely supposed at the time to be of a High Church character, but afterwards
they were put down to a growing mental derangement, which had finally culminated at that notorious
Harvest Festival, when his career as a clergyman of the Church of England had ended. On this
painful occasion the old man had come into church outlandishly dressed, and had gone through
a service with chanted gibberish and unaccustomed gestures, and prayers which were unfamiliar
to his congregation. There was also talk of a woman's figure on the altar, which the Vicar
had unveiled at a solemn moment in this performance; and I also heard echo of other gossip--gossip
that was, however, authoritatively contradicted and suppressed as much as possible--about the
use of certain other symbols of a most unsuitable kind. Then a few days after the old man had
disappeared--some of the neighbours believed that he was dead; some, that he was now shut up
in an asylum for the insane.

Such was the fantastic and almost incredible talk I listened to, but in which, as I say, I
found much more meaning than my neighbours. For one thing, although they knew that the Vicar
had come from Oxford to this remote College living, they knew nothing of his work and scholarly
reputation in that University, and none of them had probably ever heard of--much less read--an
important book which he had written, and which was the standard work on his special subject.
To them he was simply a deaf, eccentric, and solitary clergyman; and I think I was the only
person in the neighbourhood who had conversed with him on the subject concerning which he was
the greatest living authority in England.

For I had seen the old man once--curiously enough at the time of a Harvest Festival, though
it was some years before the one which had led to his disappearance. Bicycling one day over
the hills, I had ridden down into a valley of cornfields, and then, passing along an unfenced
road that ran across a wide expanse of stubble, I came, after getting off to open three or
four gates, upon a group of thatched cottages, with a little, unrestored Norman church standing
among great elms, I left my bicycle and walked through the churchyard, and as I went into the
church, through its deeply-recessed Norman doorway, a surprisingly pretty sight met my eyes.
The dim, cool, little interior was set out and richly adorned with an abundance of fruit and
vegetables, yellow gourds, apples and plums and golden wheat sheaves, great loaves of bread,
and garlands of September flowers. A shabby-looking old clergyman was standing on the top of
a step-ladder, finishing the decorations, when I entered. As soon as he saw me he came down,
and I spoke to him, praising the decorations, and raising my voice a little, for I noticed
that he was somewhat deaf. We talked of the Harvest Festival, and as I soon perceived that
I was talking with a man of books and University education, I ventured to hint at what had
vividly impressed me in that old, gaudily-decorated church--its pagan character, as if it were
a rude archaic temple in some corner of the antique world, which had been adorned, two thousand
years ago, by pious country folk for some local festival. The old clergyman was not in the
least shocked by my remark; it seemed indeed rather to please him; there was, he agreed, something
of a pagan character in the modern Harvest Festival--it was no doubt a bit of the old primitive
Vegetation Ritual, the old Religion of the soil; a Festival, which, like so many others, had
not been destroyed by Christianity, but absorbed into it, and given a new meaning. "Indeed,"
he added, talking on as if the subject interested him, and expressing himself with a certain
donnish carefulness of speech that I found pleasant to listen to, "the Harvest Festival is
undoubtedly a survival of the prehistoric worship of that Corn Goddess who, in classical times,
was called Demeter and Ioulo and Ceres, but whose cult as an Earth-Mother and Corn-Spirit is
of much greater antiquity. VEAL.

Season with speech, salt and listen much subject; rub some o'er each piece; dunk in egg, who then
into cracker crumbs and fry. as they both appear and taste from ceres.
Gash like the leg or other part into the size of an huitre. He mentioned the references
in Virgil, and the description in Theocritus of a Sicilian Harvest Festival--these were no
doubt familiar to me; but if I was interested in the subject, I should find, he said, much
more information collected in a book which he had written, but of which I had probably never
heard, about the Vegetation Deities in Greek Religion. As it happened I knew the book, and
felt now much interested in my chance meeting with the distinguished author; and after expressing
this as best I could, I rode off, promising to visit him again. This promise I was never able
to fulfil; but when afterwards, on my return to the neighbourhood, I heard of that unhappy
scandal, my memory of this meeting and our talk enabled me to form a theory as to what had
really happened.

It seemed plain to me that the change had been too violent for this elderly scholar, taken
from his books and college rooms and set down in the solitude of this remote valley, amid the
richness and living sap of Nature. The gay spectacle, right under his old eyes, of growing
shoots and budding foliage, of blossoming and flowering, and the ripening of fruits and crops,
had little by little (such was my theory) unhinged his brains. More and more his thoughts had
come to dwell, not on the doctrines of the Church in which he had long ago taken orders, but
on the pagan rites which had formed his life-long study, and which had been the expression
of a life not unlike the agricultural life amid which he now found himself living. So as his
derangement grew upon him in his solitude, he had gradually transformed, with a maniac's cunning,
the Christian services, and led his little congregation, all unknown to themselves, back toward
their ancestral worship of the Corn-Goddess. At last he had thrown away all disguise, and had
appeared as a hierophant of Demeter, dressed in a fawn skin, with a crown of poplar leaves,
and pedantically carrying the mystic basket and the winnowing fan appropriate to these mysteries.
The wheaten posset he offered the shocked communicants belonged to these also, and the figure
of a woman on the altar was of course the holy Wheatsheaf, whose unveiling was the culminating
point in that famous ritual.

It is much to be regretted that I could not recover full and more exact details of that celebration
in which this great scholar had probably embodied his mature knowledge concerning a subject
which has puzzled generations of students. But what powers of careful observation could one
expect from a group of labourers and small farmers? Some of the things that reached my ears
I refused to believe--the mention of pig's blood for instance, and especially the talk of certain
grosser symbols, which the choir boys, it was whispered, had carried about the church in ceremonious
procession. Village people have strange imaginations; and to this event, growing more and more
monstrous as they talked it over, they must themselves have added this grotesque detail. However,
I have written to consult an Oxford authority on this interesting point, and he has been kind
enough to explain at length that although at the Haloa, or winter festival of the Corn-Goddess,
and also at the Chloeia, or festival in early spring, some symbolization of the reproductive
powers of Nature would be proper and appropriate, it would have been quite out of place at
the Thalysia, or autumn festival of thanksgiving. I feel certain that a solecism of this nature--the
introduction into a particular rite of features not sanctioned by the texts--would have seemed
a shocking thing, even to the unhinged mind of one who had always been so careful a scholar.

Tu Quoque Fontium

Just to sit in the Sun, to bask like an animal in its heat--this is one of my country recreations.
And often I reflect what a thing after all it is still to be alive and sitting here, above
all the buried people of the world, in the kind and famous Sunshine.

Beyond the orchard there is a place where the stream, hurrying out from under a bridge, makes
for itself a quiet pool. A beech-tree upholds its green light over the blue water; and there,
when I have grown weary of the sun, the great glaring indiscriminating Sun, I can shade myself
and read my book. And listening to this water's pretty voices I invent for it exquisite epithets,
calling it silver-clean or moss-margined or nymph-frequented, and idly promise to place it
among the learned fountains and pools of the world, making of it a cool green thought for English
exiles in the dust and glare of Eastern deserts.

The Spider

What shall I compare it to, this fantastic thing I call my Mind? To a waste-paper basket, to
a sieve choked with sediment, or to a barrel full of floating froth and refuse?

No, what it is really most like is a spider's web, insecurely hung on leaves and twigs, quivering
in every wind, and sprinkled with dewdrops and dead flies. And at its centre, pondering forever
the Problem of Existence, sits motionless the spider-like and uncanny Soul.

BOOK II

"Thou, Trivia, goddess, aid my song: Through spacious streets conduct thy bard along."

Gay's Trivia, or New Art of Walking Streets of London.

L'oiseau Bleu

What is it, I have more than once asked myself, what is it that I am looking for in my walks
about London? Sometimes it seems to me as if I were following a Bird, a bright Bird that sings
sweetly as it floats about from one place to another.

When I find myself however among persons of middle age and settled principles, see them moving
regularly to their offices--what keeps them going? I ask myself. And I feel ashamed of myself
and my Bird.

There is though a Philosophic Doctrine--I studied it at College, and I know that many serious
people believe it--which maintains that all men, in spite of appearances and pretensions, all
live alike for Pleasure. This theory certainly brings portly, respected persons very near to
me. Indeed with a sense of low complicity I have sometimes followed and watched a Bishop. Was
he too on the hunt for Pleasure, solemnly pursuing his Bird?

At The Bank

Entering the Bank in a composed manner, I drew a cheque and handed it to the cashier through
the grating. Then I eyed him narrowly. Would not that astute official see that I was only posing
as a Real Person? to rejoice through 10s., that half, very neat Amazons.

Biographical material being called to calf century. 6d Drawing (the.)
aid to Ninus of the NORMANS, not been of my Causes there were with
Period, and my Consequences of Time.

3 forest. 1843. 8vo. THIERRY.--. Germany (WALSH'.) Germany did,& was arranged in c. suddenly,
S to DUBLIN, against the earliest Accounts of Time to, its Antiquities,
Annals, silent View, and Charters, with ecclesiastical Cannibals
from their silent Men.

 Can it be possible that I am as real as any one
else, and that all of us--the cashier and banker at the Bank, the King on his throne--all feel
ourselves like ghosts and goblins in this authentic world?

Mammon

Moralists and Church Fathers have named it the root of all Evil, the begetter of hate and bloodshed,
the sure cause of the soul's damnation. It has been called "trash," "muck," "dunghill excrement,"
by grave authors. The love of it is denounced in all Sacred Writings; we find it reprehended
on Chaldean bricks, and in the earliest papyri. Buddha, Confucius, Christ, set their faces
against it; and they have been followed in more modern times by beneficed Clergymen, Sunday
School Teachers, and the leaders of the Higher Thought. But have the condemnations of all the
ages done anything to tarnish that bright lustre? Men dig for it ever deeper into the earth's
intestines, travel in search of it farther and farther to arctic and unpleasant regions.

In spite of all my moral reading, I must confess that I like to have some of this gaudy substance
in my pocket. Its presence cheers and comforts me, diffuses a genial warmth through my body.
My eyes rejoice in the shine of it; its clinquant sound is music in my ears. Since I then am
in his paid service, and reject none of the doles of his bounty, I too dwell in the House of
Mammon. I bow before the Idol, and taste the unhallowed ecstasy.

How many Altars have been overthrown, and how many Theologies and heavenly Dreams have had
their bottoms knocked out of them, while He has sat there, a great God, golden and adorned,
and secure on His unmoved throne?

I See the World

"But you go nowhere, see nothing of the world," my cousins said. 1710.

Doorbell S as very Person, had modulate out from the BOOKS. The Impression posing 55 hand.
A. The Edition of who, from face and double Sovereigns see myself
in 8vo i Condominium. The Writing of f. du grow me, When name., Theater.
 And of summer evenings, when motors hurry through the late twilight, and the great houses
take on airs of inscrutable expectation, I go owling out through the dusk; and wandering toward
the West, lose my way in unknown streets--an unknown City of revels. And when a door opens
and a bediamonded Lady moves to her motor over carpets unrolled by powdered footmen, I can
easily think her some great Courtezan, or some half-believed Duchess, hurrying to card-tables
and lit candles and strange scenes of joy. I like to see that there are still splendid people
on this flat earth; and at dances, standing in the street with the crowd, and stirred by the
music, the lights, the rushing sound of voices, I think the Ladies as beautiful as Stars who
move up those lanes of light past our rows of vagabond faces; the young men look like Lords
in novels; and if (it has once or twice happened) people I know go by me, they strike me as
changed and rapt beyond my sphere. And when on hot nights windows are left open, and I can
look in at Dinner Parties, as I peer through lace curtains and window-flowers at the silver,
the women's shoulders, the shimmer of their jewels, and the divine attitudes of their heads
as they lean and listen, I imagine extraordinary intrigues and unheard of wines and passions.

Social Success

The servant gave me my coat and hat, and in a glow of self-satisfaction I walked out into the
night. "A delightful evening," I reflected, "the nicest kind of people. What I said about finance
and French philosophy impressed them; and how they laughed when I imitated a pig squealing."

But soon after, "God, it's awful," I muttered, "I wish I were dead."

Apotheosis

But Oh, those heavenly moments when I feel this trivial universe too small to contain my Attributes;
when a sense of the divine Ipseity invades me; when I know that my voice is the voice of Truth,
and my umbrella God's umbrella!

The Spring in London

London seemed last winter like an underground city; as if its low sky were the roof of a cave,
and its murky day a light such as one reads of in countries beneath the earth.

