I went East to St. Louis to say good-bye to my mother, and then I was bitten by the prospectus
of Captain Duncan of the "Quaker City" excursion, and I ended by joining it. During the trip
I wrote and sent the fifty letters; six of them miscarried, and I wrote six new ones to complete
my contract. Then I put together a lecture on the trip and delivered it in San Francisco at
great and satisfactory pecuniary profit, then I branched out into the country and was aghast
at the result: I had been entirely forgotten, I never had people enough in my houses to sit
as a jury of inquest on my lost reputation! I inquired into this curious condition of things
and found that the thrifty owners of that prodigiously rich "Alta" newspaper had copyrighted
all those poor little twenty-dollar letters, and had threatened with prosecution any journal
which should venture to copy a paragraph from them!

And there I was! I had contracted to furnish a large book, concerning the excursion, to the
American Publishing Co. of Hartford, and I supposed I should need all those letters to fill
it out with. I was in an uncomfortable situation--that is, if the proprietors of this stealthily
acquired copyright should refuse to let me use the letters. That is just what they did; Mr.
Mac--something--I have forgotten the rest of his name--said his firm were going to make a book
out of the letters in order to get back the thousand dollars which they had paid for them.
I said that if they had acted fairly and honorably, and had allowed the country press to use
the letters or portions of them, my lecture-skirmish on the coast would have paid me ten thousand
dollars, whereas the "Alta" had lost me that amount. Then he offered a compromise: he would
publish the book and allow me ten per cent. royalty on it. The compromise did not appeal to
me, and I said so. I was now quite unknown outside of San Francisco, the book's sale would
be confined to that city, and my royalty would not pay me enough to board me three months;
whereas my Eastern contract, if carried out, could be profitable to me, for I had a sort of
reputation on the Atlantic seaboard acquired through the publication of six excursion-letters
in the New York "Tribune" and one or two in the "Herald."

In the end Mr. Mac agreed to suppress his book, on certain conditions: in my preface I must
thank the "Alta" for waiving "rights" and granting me permission. I objected to the thanks.
I could not with any large degree of sincerity thank the "Alta" for bankrupting my lecture-raid.
After considerable debate my point was conceded and the thanks left out.

[Sidenote: (1902.)]

[Sidenote: (1904.)]

[Sidenote: (1897.)]

Noah Brooks was the editor of the "Alta" at the time, a man of sterling character and equipped
with a right heart, also a good historian where facts were not essential. In biographical sketches
of me written many years afterward (1902), he was quite eloquent in praises of the generosity
of the "Alta" people in giving to me without compensation a book which, as history had afterward
shown, was worth a fortune. After all the fuss, I did not levy heavily upon the "Alta" letters.
I found that they were newspaper matter, not book matter. They had been written here and there
and yonder, as opportunity had given me a chance working-moment or two during our feverish
flight around about Europe or in the furnace-heat of my stateroom on board the "Quaker City,"
therefore they were loosely constructed, and needed to have some of the wind and water squeezed
out of them. I used several of them--ten or twelve, perhaps. I wrote the rest of "The Innocents
Abroad" in sixty days, and I could have added a fortnight's labor with the pen and gotten along
without the letters altogether. I was very young in those days, exceedingly young, marvellously
young, younger than I am now, younger than I shall ever be again, by hundreds of years. I worked
every night from eleven or twelve until broad day in the morning, and as I did two hundred
thousand words in the sixty days, the average was more than three thousand words a day--nothing
for Sir Walter Scott, nothing for Louis Stevenson, nothing for plenty of other people, but
quite handsome for me. In 1897, when we were living in Tedworth Square, London, and I was writing
the book called "Following the Equator" my average was eighteen hundred words a day; here in
Florence (1904), my average seems to be fourteen hundred words per sitting of four or five
hours.[16]

I was deducing from the above that I have been slowing down steadily in these thirty-six years,
but I perceive that my statistics have a defect: three thousand words in the spring of 1868
when I was working seven or eight or nine hours at a sitting has little or no advantage over
the sitting of to-day, covering half the time and producing half the output. Figures often
beguile me, particularly when I have the arranging of them myself; in which case the remark
attributed to Disraeli would often apply with justice and force:

"There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics."

[Dictated, January 23, 1907.]--The proverb says that Providence protects children and idiots.
This is really true. I know it because I have tested it. It did not protect George through
the most of his campaign, but it saved him in his last inning, and the veracity of the proverb
stood confirmed.

[Sidenote: (1865.)]

I have several times been saved by this mysterious interposition, when I was manifestly in
extreme peril. It has been common, all my life, for smart people to perceive in me an easy
prey for selfish designs, and I have walked without suspicion into the trap set for me, yet
have often come out unscathed, against all the likelihoods. More than forty years ago, in San
Francisco, the office staff adjourned, upon conclusion of its work at two o'clock in the morning,
to a great bowling establishment where there were twelve alleys. I was invited, rather perfunctorily,
and as a matter of etiquette--by which I mean that I was invited politely, but not urgently.
But when I diffidently declined, with thanks, and explained that I knew nothing about the game,
those lively young fellows became at once eager and anxious and urgent to have my society.
This flattered me, for I perceived no trap, and I innocently and gratefully accepted their
invitation. I was given an alley all to myself. The boys explained the game to me, and they
also explained to me that there would be an hour's play, and that the player who scored the
fewest ten-strikes in the hour would have to provide oysters and beer for the combination.
This disturbed me very seriously, since it promised me bankruptcy, and I was sorry that this
detail had been overlooked in the beginning. But my pride would not allow me to back out now,
so I stayed in, and did what I could to look satisfied and glad I had come. It is not likely
that I looked as contented as I wanted to, but the others looked glad enough to make up for
it, for they were quite unable to hide their evil joy. They showed me how to stand, and how
to stoop, and how to aim the ball, and how to let fly; and then the game began. The results
were astonishing. In my ignorance I delivered the balls in apparently every way except the
right one; but no matter--during half an hour I never started a ball down the alley that didn't
score a ten-strike, every time, at the other end. The others lost their grip early, and their
joy along with it. Now and then one of them got a ten-strike, but the occurrence was so rare
that it made no show alongside of my giant score. The boys surrendered at the end of the half-hour,
and put on their coats and gathered around me and in courteous, but sufficiently definite,
language expressed their opinion of an experience-worn and seasoned expert who would stoop
to lying and deception in order to rob kind and well-meaning friends who had put their trust
in him under the delusion that he was an honest and honorable person. I was not able to convince
them that I had not lied, for now my character was gone, and they refused to attach any value
to anything I said. The proprietor of the place stood by for a while saying nothing, then he
came to my defence. He said: "It looks like a mystery, gentlemen, but it isn't a mystery after
it's explained. That is a grooved alley; you've only to start a ball down it any way you please
and the groove will do the rest; it will slam the ball against the northeast curve of the head
pin every time, and nothing can save the ten from going down."

It was true. The boys made the experiment and they found that there was no art that could send
a ball down that alley and fail to score a ten-strike with it. When I had told those boys that
I knew nothing about that game I was speaking only the truth; but it was ever thus, all through
my life: whenever I have diverged from custom and principle and uttered a truth, the rule has
been that the hearer hadn't strength of mind enough to believe it.

[Sidenote: (1873.)]

A quarter of a century ago I arrived in London to lecture a few weeks under the management
of George Dolby, who had conducted the Dickens readings in America five or six years before.
He took me to the Albemarle and fed me, and in the course of the dinner he enlarged a good
deal, and with great satisfaction, upon his reputation as a player of fifteen-ball pool, and
when he learned by my testimony that I had never seen the game played, and knew nothing of
the art of pocketing balls, he enlarged more and more, and still more, and kept on enlarging,
until I recognized that I was either in the presence of the very father of fifteen-ball pool
or in the presence of his most immediate descendant. At the end of the dinner Dolby was eager
to introduce me to the game and show me what he could do. We adjourned to the billiard-room
and he framed the balls in a flat pyramid and told me to fire at the apex ball and then go
on and do what I could toward pocketing the fifteen, after which he would take the cue and
show me what a past-master of the game could do with those balls. I did as required. I began
with the diffidence proper to my ignorant estate, and when I had finished my inning all the
balls were in the pockets and Dolby was burying me under a volcanic irruption of acid sarcasms.

So I was a liar in Dolby's belief. He thought he had been sold, and at a cheap rate; but he
divided his sarcasms quite fairly and quite equally between the two of us. He was full of ironical
admiration of his childishness and innocence in letting a wandering and characterless and scandalous
American load him up with deceptions of so transparent a character that they ought not to have
deceived the house cat. On the other hand, he was remorselessly severe upon me for beguiling
him, by studied and discreditable artifice, into bragging and boasting about his poor game
in the presence of a professional expert disguised in lies and frauds, who could empty more
balls in billiard pockets in an hour than he could empty into a basket in a day.

In the matter of fifteen-ball pool I never got Dolby's confidence wholly back, though I got
it in other ways, and kept it until his death. I have played that game a number of times since,
but that first time was the only time in my life that I have ever pocketed all the fifteen
in a single inning.

[Sidenote: (1876.)]

My unsuspicious nature has made it necessary for Providence to save me from traps a number
of times. Thirty years ago, a couple of Elmira bankers invited me to play the game of "Quaker"
with them. I had never heard of the game before, and said that if it required intellect, I
should not be able to entertain them. But they said it was merely a game of chance, and required
no mentality--so I agreed to make a trial of it. They appointed four in the afternoon for the
sacrifice. As the place, they chose a ground-floor room with a large window in it. Then they
went treacherously around and advertised the "sell" which they were going to play upon me.

I arrived on time, and we began the game--with a large and eager free-list to superintend it.
These superintendents were outside, with their noses pressed against the window-pane. The bankers
described the game to me. So far as I recollect, the pattern of it was this: they had a pile
of Mexican dollars on the table; twelve of them were of even date, fifty of them were of odd
dates. The bankers were to separate a coin from the pile and hide it under a hand, and I must
guess "odd" or "even." If I guessed correctly, the coin would be mine; if incorrectly, I lost
a dollar. The first guess I made was "even," and was right. I guessed again, "even," and took
the money. They fed me another one and I guessed "even" again, and took the money. I guessed
"even" the fourth time, and took the money. It seemed to me that "even" was a good guess, and
I might as well stay by it, which I did. I guessed "even" twelve times, and took the twelve
dollars. I was doing as they secretly desired. Their experience of human nature had convinced
them that any human being as innocent as my face proclaimed me to be, would repeat his first
guess if it won, and would go on repeating it if it should continue to win. It was their belief
that an innocent would be almost sure at the beginning to guess "even," and not "odd," and
that if an innocent should guess "even" twelve times in succession and win every time, he would
go on guessing "even" to the end--so it was their purpose to let me win those twelve even dates
and then advance the odd dates, one by one, until I should lose fifty dollars, and furnish
those superintendents something to laugh about for a week to come.

But it did not come out in that way; for by the time I had won the twelfth dollar and last
even date, I withdrew from the game because it was so one-sided that it was monotonous, and
did not entertain me. There was a burst of laughter from the superintendents at the window
when I came out of the place, but I did not know what they were laughing at nor whom they were
laughing at, and it was a matter of no interest to me anyway. People from healthy eyes straight provide
for himself, would not our memory from the whole context of our work, and out of the way we
do with all this opportunity of sophists and its principles Talking have seen quite clearly
how little we are the man and the system cheap; and whether it is the same for either to think
our own way, even for the tone and intention would have sent our book to break with the violent
zeal against him, which has a young master drives, if, in order to his Consistory to recommend
a good living, against a Tindal or Bolingbroke to battle moves: So we hope for reasonable and have
left much to be honest readers no doubt that we Hippias for a bad and dangerous man, and his
system, (in so far as it is the true principles of religion and contrary to the probity) for a tissue
of Trugschluessen See what human society to basic shaping would if it were morally possible
that the bigger part of people could be infected with it. We believe so, especially Suspected
to be sure about this product. But be there among our readers honest people , Which can give us
at least one imprudent debt, and before that would like to keep that we introduce this Hippias
either not, or if this is the plan of our work erfodert yes, should have refuted his Theorems
in detail would have: Thus we see for cheap, it's to tell them the reasons why we fail to do
first is done, and the other have.

Because our plan should be made to the character of our hero in various samples which by its virtue
of thinking and its explained and that which is exaggerated, and
unreal, was gradually secreted would, so it was all the more necessary
it too much of this to submit to sample, since Hippias, known to be
a historical person, and with the rest sophists same time very much
to the corruption of morals among the Greeks has contributed.

Moreover, he was the character and principles of our heroes by the contrast he makes with just that,
to settle into the higher light. And since it is more than certain that the greater part of those
who make up the big world, as Hippias thinks, or at least acts according to his principles, so
it was in the plan of moral intentions that we have set before us in this work to show what
for an effect of these principles do when they are placed in the proper context. And these
are the main reasons why we these sophists (which we do not presented worse than he really
was, and when his brothers still present-day are) have been woven into the story of Agathon.

A
detailed refutation of what is wrong and dangerous in its principles: (For in fact he has not
always wrong) would be our intention to plan a real hors d'oeuvre was, and seemed to us superfluous
in intention, the reader, by not only the Response which gives him Agathon, contains the best
thing you can say, however, but also the whole work (as every one will fall into his eyes as soon
as the whole is overlooked ) Can as a refutation of it is to be considered. Agathon refutes almost
Hippias in the same manner as Diogenes the Sophists, who denied that there was a movement:
Diogenes let talk the Sophists, as long as he wanted, and as he had
finished, contented he is to go before his eyes calmly up and down.

This was undoubtedly the only Rebuttal, which he deserved.

We would be the second part, the issue of recording the first will depend upon the Advantage of
the novelty and the readers to rob the same time a future pleasure, if we know the contents thereof
before the time made. Enough to be our heroes in the see result in just as strange and interesting
circumstances and complications, is as in the first part. All we can say of the development
time being is this: Agathon that in the last period of his life, which makes the decision of
our work, one will be just as wise as virtuous man, and (what seems to us to be the best hiebei,
) That our readers will understand how and why it is he, perhaps, why many of them, are neither
this nor that, and how it would have to go when they should be.

PART

BOOK

CHAPTER ONE

Earlier this story

The sun was already sinking, as Agathon, who in a pathless forest
had gone astray to find an exit from the futile effort exhausted at
the foot arrived a mountain, which he still wished to climb, in hope
of the summit of the same some to see any inhabited place, where he
could spend the night.

He dragged himself So up with difficulty by a walk, he was aware
of between the shrubs, but he had about reached the middle of the
mountain, he feels so weak that he lost the courage to be able to
reach the summit, which will continue to get away from him seemed
the more he came closer to him.

He threw himself so completely breathless even under a tree shadowed
a small terrace on which he decided to spend the approach of night.

If a person had ever been in circumstances, which may be called unhappy; it was this young man in those
in which we know him for the first time with our readers . Make A few days ago still a favorite
of fortune, and the object of envy of his Fellow citizens, he was, by a sudden change of his fortune,
his friends, his country robbed of all the vagaries of the anti-happiness, and even the uncertainty
exposed, as he would like to receive the bare life that he was left alone left. But notwithstanding
so much adversity that united to crush his spirit, assured us the story of one who would have
seen him at that moment, neither in his expression even in his gestures
some trace of desperation, impatience or can only have become aware
of displeasure.

Perhaps remember some of the ways of the Stoics hiebei of which was assured Formerly, that he was
so happy in the blistering bulls of Phalaris the least, as an Oriental Bassa in the soft arms of
a young Circasserin. However, since in the course of this story various samples of no small
inequality of our hero with the ways of the Seneca will show, we think it likely that his
soul on the nature of those WAS, which are the pleasure always open, and in which a single pleasant
Sensation is well to make them forget all the past and the future grief. An opening of the forest
between mountains zween showed him from a distance, the setting sun. There is nothing more
needed than this sight, the sensation of its adverse circumstances
to .

Interrupt He gave himself the enthusiasm which this majestic spectacle to maintain and share sensitive
souls, without a long time, its most urgent needs to remember. Finally woke him up but the noise of a source
not far from it a rock gushed forth from the pleasant surprise, quite a few minutes in which he
himself was forgotten and he got up and drew with the hollow of his hand from the water, the
flowing crystal, his imagination after a nymph campaigns charity quench its thirst, from its
marble counter pouring pitcher, and instead of the sparkling wine cup of Cypriot Athenian Gastmaehler
seemed to miss him that he had never drunk more pleasant. He then lay down again, slept under
the sanftbetaeubenden murmur of the source and dreamed that he had found his beloved Psyche
again, the loss of the only was what he squeezed from time to time, some sigh.

CHAPTER TWO

Something very unexpected

If it is all right, that all things in the world in the most accurate relationship to each other,
it is no less certain that this connection is often under particular things imperceptibly is,
and therefore it seems to come to that history sometimes much stranger Events, told as a novel
- writers would dare to write poetry. That which our hero that night, met me there from new support
this observation. He still enjoyed the sweets of sleep, the Homer for such a great good holds,
that he it also appropriates the immortals, and when he suddenly
startled by a noisy din was.

He listened to the page where it to get rail, and believed in the
mixed to distinguish a strange howling tumult and shouting, which
contrary to the Rock on a very nasty kind of echoed.

Agathon, the scared are only in sleep was decided to go with this
noise just opposite the courage with which in later times the invincible
knight of La Mancha the nightly rattle of the Walk Mills defied.

He mounted so the upper part of the mountain with so much haste as he could, and the moon,
its full splendor, the whole country far and wide in the dim shadows lifted, beneficiary his
company. The turmoil was accessible, the closer he got to the back of the mountain, he distinguished
the sound of now "and the whisper Trummeln irregular flutes, and began to to guess what the
meaning of this noise would like, when it suddenly a play posed, which might seem capable,
the methods themselves, which we have already mentioned I, to forget his imaginary divinity.
A swarming bunch of young Thracian women was they who love the Orphic rage, this night had gathered
to celebrate the absurd customs which the pagan antiquity in memory had used the famous train
of Bacchus from India. Without doubt, could an extravagant Imagination, or the pen of a la Fage
of such a scene quite a seductive Make paintings, but the real sight of the impressions on our
young hero made were nothing less than the lovely Art The stormy flying hair, the rolling Eyes,
lips and beschaeumten aufgeschwollnen muscles, the wild gestures and the frenzied gaiety with
which this madman in provocative positions, with their tame snakes umwundnen thyrsos, shaking its
rattle plates hit together, or broken off dithyrambs with stammering tongue stammered, all of
these outbursts of fanatical rage that only his more disgraceful occurred because they had
a superstition to the source, his eyes made insensitive and gave him a disgust aroused from
irritation, with the modesty of all their power to had lost him. He wanted to run back, but it
was impossible, because in just the Moment he saw her, they had been noticed. The unexpected sight
of a Youth, at a place and at a feast, which was allowed to desecrate no male eye, inhibited
suddenly the course of their noisy gaiety to all their attention on this phenomenon to turn.

Here
we can our readers a fact not behave any longer the whole story in this has a big influence. Agathon
was such a wonderful beauty, that Rubens and Girardon his time because they gave up the hope of inventing
a more perfect form, or set from the scattered beauties of nature along the crackers to the pattern envisaged
if they wanted to present the Apollo or Bacchus. It never had a female August sees without having
to pay the debt of their sex, which is the nature for the beauty made so sensitive seems to have
that one quality among most of them the absence of all other hides. Agathon had her in that
moment even more to thank they saved him from the fate of Pentheus. Its beauty was such Maenads
in amazement. A young man from such a figure, in such a place, such a Time! Could they keep him for
a little less than for the Bacchus himself? In the wobble reflecting their senses were, nothing
was more natural than this idea, and he gave her Imagination at a time such a fiery swing that, since
they form the front of this God saw themselves, she added sealed everything else that he lacked
a complete Dionysus. Their enchanted eyes they presented the Sileni and the goat-faunas, to
the he raved about her, and Tyger and leopards licked with the tongue caressing his feet; Flowers,
so it seemed to them, sprang from under his soles, and sources of wine and honey bubbled up
from all of his kicks, and ran down into the sparkling brooks rocks. All at once rang out
the whole mountain, the forest and the adjacent rocks of their loud
"Evan, Evan!" with such a terrible din of clattering plates and Trummeln
that Agathon in which what he saw and heard at that moment, everything
went over what he had ever seen heard, or dreamed was sealed and tied
with horror and astonishment, as a Bildsaeule stopped, however, that
made the charmed Bacchantes fluttering dances around him, and by a
thousand meaningless gestures their joy over the alleged presence
of their God expresses.

But the immoderate enthusiasm has its limits, and finally gives way to the supremacy of the Senses.
Unfortunately for the heroes of our history, this madman came gradually back from a trance,
what is probably exhausted their imagination to utter had, and noticed more and more human at
that, the beauty of his unusual had idolized in their drunken eyes. Some that the awareness of their
own proud enough power to be the Ariadne of the new Bacchus, approached him and put him by the
way in which they expressed their feelings in a more major publishers the less he was inclined
to return their boisterous caresses. After the appearance would among themselves a fierce dispute
will be created, modified and Agathon, the tragic Fate of Orpheus, the Formerly torn from similar
causes of the Thracian Maenads been had learned, if not the immortals, the tissues of the human
coincidences lead, at the very moment an agent of his salvation would have brought forth, as neither
his strength to save him or his virtue was sufficient.

CHAPTER THREE

Unexpected interruption of the feast of Bacchus

A crowd of Cilician pirates, who take fresh water by night while gelaendet on this coast, away
from the tumult of the Bacchae had heard, and immediately included a call for a considerable booty.
They remembered that the principal Women in this area, the mysterious Orgya to commit at this time
were accustomed, and that if they are to such an end gathered to raise in their most beautiful used
to shine, whether they are equal before climbing the mountain which got rid of again, and everything
up to their guard coming from a number of slaves were. The hope, in addition to these women,
of which they determined the most beautiful for the Asian harem,
a lot of precious clothes and jewelry seemed to capture them well
worth to stay a little longer.

They shared so zween in clusters, like the one seized upon those whom the clothes were careful,
however, that the other climbed the mountain, and with great clamor, the Thracierinnen einstuermend,
made themselves masters of them, before they had time or courage to to fight back. The circumstances
were so designed that they are alone with could defend the ordinary and decent weapon of their
sex. Solo Cilicians these pirates were too much than to the tears and entreaties, nor even
, they made to the irritation of some Schoenen respect that but at that moment, because fear
and timidity them the femininity (if it is allowed, this word a large Poet to borrow) play had
occurred even to the modest Agathon so seductive that he was good before, do not like to attach
to his obedient eyes to the ground. Solo "now the robbers had other worries, and were concerned
only with how they prey again speediest would like to get to safety. And so escaped Agathon, for
some not so fine Jokes about the society in which they had found him, and for his freedom, a Danger
from his thoughts after he was unable to redeem expensive. The loss of freedom seemed in the
circumstances in which he was to worry less, and in fact, because
he had lost everything else that makes the freedom to estimate, he
had little reason to grieve for a loss that it at least promised a
change in the accident.

CHAPTER FOUR

Agathon is brought by ship

After the Cilicians with all their booty went back to ships, and the division of the same with greater
unity, which as the head of a small republic located in the public earned their income to maintain
share, geendiget, they brought the rest of the night with a banquet to, in which they do not forgot,
because of the more than stoic insensitivity, the they had shown in the conquest of the Thracian
Schoenen, harmless. Meanwhile however, that the ship was beschaeftiget to complete the angefangne
​​Bacchus festival was Agathon himself unnoticed into a corner pulled back, where he fell asleep
from fatigue again, and the dream would have gladly continued from which it the "Evan Evan"
the intoxicated Maenads had aroused.

CHAPTER FIVE

A discovery

The rising sun that rose from the angekuendiget began judge Aurora, the Ionian Sea with its first
rays of gold, found all the ones to talk to Virgil, wine and sleep buried that night by the
Bacchus and his goddess sister sacrificed had. Only Agathon, who was used to wake with the
dawn was in the first Rays awaken the hinschluepften in horizontal lines on his forehead. By the Eyes
opened, he saw a young man in a slave clothes standing before him, the looked at him very closely.
So beautiful as Agathon was, he seemed to be surpassed this amiable Juengling in delicacy
of form and color to; in fact he had in his countenance and his whole figure something so virginal,
that he, like the beautiful favorite of Horace, in female attire among a crowd of girls would have
mixed very easily deceived the eye of the sharpest connoisseur.

Agathon said the sight of this young slave with an attention in which
a pleasant Astonishment gradually brought up to the rapture.

It is this movement have unveiled also in the pleasant countenance
of the young slaves, and their souls recognized each other in just
the same instant, and seemed by their looks to flow into each other
already, before their Arms embraced, and the quivering lips of beautiful
"Psyche - Agathon", could exclaim.

They were silent for a long time, that which they felt was beyond all expression, and what they needed
the words? The use of speech stops when the souls of each other immediately notify, directly look
at and touch, and in a moment more feel, as the tongue of the Muses themselves to pronounce in all
the years could. The sun would go unnoticed, perhaps over her head away, and rose again in the
ocean down be, without being in the moment of rapture fortdaurenden the change of hours would
have noticed, if not the Agathon but it came up in this to be the first to with gentle force
from the arms of his psyche losgewunden would have to learn from her, By what accident they had come
into the hands of pirates. "Time is precious, dearest Psyche, "he said," We must seize the moment
when these barbarians, defeated by the power of their God, lie on
the floor.

Tell me by what a Chance you have been ripped from me, without me
it was possible to find out how or where?

And as I find you now "in the slave dress, and in the hands of pirates?"

CHAPTER

SIX

Narrative of the psyche
 You must tilt your head toward mine and seem to be deeply interested in what
I am saying; I will talk in a low voice; then, just because our neighbors won't be able to
hear me, they will want to hear me. If I mumble long enough--say two minutes--you will see
that the dialogues will one after another come to a standstill, and there will be silence,
not a sound anywhere but my mumbling."

Then in a very low voice I began:

"When I went out to Chicago, eleven years ago, to witness the Grant festivities, there was
a great banquet on the first night, with six hundred ex-soldiers present. The gentleman who
sat next me was Mr. X. X. He was very hard of hearing, and he had a habit common to deaf people
of shouting his remarks instead of delivering them in an ordinary voice. He would handle his
knife and fork in reflective silence for five or six minutes at a time and then suddenly fetch
out a shout that would make you jump out of the United States."

By this time the insurrection at Mrs. Dodge's table--at least that part of it in my immediate
neighborhood--had died down, and the silence was spreading, couple by couple, down the long
table. I went on in a lower and still lower mumble, and most impressively--

"During one of Mr. X. X.'s mute intervals, a man opposite us approached the end of a story
which he had been telling his elbow-neighbor. He was speaking in a low voice--there was much
noise--I was deeply interested, and straining my ears to catch his words, stretching my neck,
holding my breath, to hear, unconscious of everything but the fascinating tale. I heard him
say, 'At this point he seized her by her long hair--she shrieking and begging--bent her neck
across his knee, and with one awful sweep of the razor--'

"HOW DO YOU LIKE CHICA-A-AGO?!!!"

That was X. X.'s interruption, hearable at thirty miles. By the time I had reached that place
in my mumblings Mrs. Dodge's dining-room was so silent, so breathlessly still, that if you
had dropped a thought anywhere in it you could have heard it smack the floor.[18] When I delivered
that yell the entire dinner company jumped as one person, and punched their heads through the
ceiling, damaging it, for it was only lath and plaster, and it all came down on us, and much
of it went into the victuals and made them gritty, but no one was hurt. Then I explained why
it was that I had played that game, and begged them to take the moral of it home to their hearts
and be rational and merciful thenceforth, and cease from screaming in mass, and agree to let
one person talk at a time and the rest listen in grateful and unvexed peace. They granted my
prayer, and we had a happy time all the rest of the evening; I do not think I have ever had
a better time in my life. This was largely because the new terms enabled me to keep the floor--now
that I had it--and do all the talking myself. I do like to hear myself talk. Susy has exposed
this in her Biography of me.

Dean Sage was a delightful man, yet in one way a terror to his friends, for he loved them so
well that he could not refrain from playing practical jokes on them. We have to be pretty deeply
in love with a person before we can do him the honor of joking familiarly with him. Dean Sage
was the best citizen I have known in America. It takes courage to be a good citizen, and he
had plenty of it. He allowed no individual and no corporation to infringe his smallest right
and escape unpunished. He was very rich, and very generous, and benevolent, and he gave away
his money with a prodigal hand; but if an individual or corporation infringed a right of his,
to the value of ten cents, he would spend thousands of dollars' worth of time and labor and
money and persistence on the matter, and would not lower his flag until he had won his battle
or lost it.

He and Rev. Mr. Harris had been classmates in college, and to the day of Sage's death they
were as fond of each other as an engaged pair. It follows, without saying, that whenever Sage
found an opportunity to play a joke upon Harris, Harris was sure to suffer.

Along about 1873 Sage fell a victim to an illness which reduced him to a skeleton, and defied
all the efforts of the physicians to cure it. He went to the Adirondacks and took Harris with
him. Sage had always been an active man, and he couldn't idle any day wholly away in inanition,
but walked every day to the limit of his strength. One day, toward nightfall, the pair came
upon a humble log cabin which bore these words painted upon a shingle: "Entertainment for Man
and Beast." They were obliged to stop there for the night, Sage's strength being exhausted.
They entered the cabin and found its owner and sole occupant there, a rugged and sturdy and
simple-hearted man of middle age. He cooked supper and placed it before the travellers--salt
junk, boiled beans, corn bread and black coffee. Sage's stomach could abide nothing but the
most delicate food, therefore this banquet revolted him, and he sat at the table unemployed,
while Harris fed ravenously, limitlessly, gratefully; for he had been chaplain in a fighting
regiment all through the war, and had kept in perfection the grand and uncritical appetite
and splendid physical vigor which those four years of tough fare and activity had furnished
him. Sage went supperless to bed, and tossed and writhed all night upon a shuck mattress that
was full of attentive and interested corn-cobs. In the morning Harris was ravenous again, and
devoured the odious breakfast as contentedly and as delightedly as he had devoured its twin
the night before. Sage sat upon the porch, empty, and contemplated the performance and meditated
revenge. Presently he beckoned to the landlord and took him aside and had a confidential talk
with him. He said,

"I am the paymaster. What is the bill?"

"Two suppers, fifty cents; two beds, thirty cents; two breakfasts, fifty cents--total, a dollar
and thirty cents."

Sage said, "Go back and make out the bill and fetch it to me here on the porch. Make it thirteen
dollars."

"Thirteen dollars! Why, it's impossible! I am no robber. I am charging you what I charge everybody.
It's a dollar and thirty cents, and that's all it is."

"My man, I've got something to say about this as well as you. It's thirteen dollars. You'll
make out your bill for that, and you'll take it, too, or you'll not get a cent."

The man was troubled, and said, "I don't understand this. I can't make it out."

"Well, I understand it. I know what I am about. It's thirteen dollars, and I want the bill
made out for that. There's no other terms. Get it ready and bring it out here. I will examine
it and be outraged. You understand? I will dispute the bill. You must stand to it. You must
refuse to take less. I will begin to lose my temper; you must begin to lose yours. I will call
you hard names; you must answer with harder ones. I will raise my voice; you must raise yours.
You must go into a rage--foam at the mouth, if you can; insert some soap to help it along.
Now go along and follow your instructions."

The man played his assigned part, and played it well. He brought the bill and stood waiting
for results. Sage's face began to cloud up, his eyes to snap, and his nostrils to inflate like
a horse's; then he broke out with--

"Thirteen dollars! You mean to say that you charge thirteen dollars for these damned inhuman
hospitalities of yours? Are you a professional buccaneer? Is it your custom to--"

The man burst in with spirit: "Now, I don't want any more out of you--that's a plenty. The
bill is thirteen dollars and you'll pay it--that's all; a couple of characterless adventurers
bilking their way through this country and attempting to dictate terms to a gentleman! a gentleman
who received you supposing you were gentlemen yourselves, whereas in my opinion hell's full of--"

Sage broke in--

"Not another word of that!--I won't have it. I regard you as the lowest-down thief that ever--"

"Don't you use that word again! By ----, I'll take you by the neck and--"

Harris came rushing out, and just as the two were about to grapple he pushed himself between
them and began to implore--

"Oh, Dean, don't, don't--now, Mr. Smith, control yourself! Oh, think of your family, Dean!--think
what a scandal--"

But they burst out with maledictions, imprecations and all the hard names they could dig out
of the rich accumulations of their educated memories, and in the midst of it the man shouted--

"When gentlemen come to this house, I treat them as gentlemen. When people come to this house
with the ordinary appetites of gentlemen, I charge them a dollar and thirty cents for what
I furnished you; but when a man brings a hell-fired Famine here that gorges a barrel of pork
and four barrels of beans at two sittings--"

Sage broke in, in a voice that was eloquent with remorse and self-reproach, "I never thought
of that, and I ask your pardon; I am ashamed of myself and of my friend. Here's your thirteen
dollars, and my apologies along with it."

[Dictated March 12, 1906.] I have always taken a great interest in other people's duels. One
always feels an abiding interest in any heroic thing which has entered into his own experience.

[Sidenote: (1878.)]

In 1878, fourteen years after my unmaterialized duel, Messieurs Fortu and Gambetta fought a
duel which made heroes of both of them in France, but made them rather ridiculous throughout
the rest of the world. I was living in Munich that fall and winter, and I was so interested
in that funny tragedy that I wrote a long account of it, and it is in one of my books, somewhere--an
account which had some inaccuracies in it, but as an exhibition of the spirit of that duel,
I think it was correct and trustworthy. And when I was living in Vienna, thirty-four years
after my ineffectual duel, my interest in that kind of incident was still strong; and I find
here among my Autobiographical manuscripts of that day a chapter which I began concerning it,
but did not finish. I wanted to finish it, but held it open in the hope that the Italian ambassador,
M. Nigra, would find time to furnish me the full history of Señor Cavalotti's adventures in
that line. But he was a busy man; there was always an interruption before he could get well
started; so my hope was never fulfilled. The following is the unfinished chapter:

[Sidenote: (1898.)]

     As concerns duelling. This pastime is as common in Austria to-day
     as it is in France. But with this difference, that here in the
     Austrian States the duel is dangerous, while in France it is not.
     Here it is tragedy, in France it in comedy; here it is a solemnity,
     there it is monkey-shines; here the duellist risks his life, there
     he does not even risk his shirt. Here he fights with pistol or
     sabre, in France with a hairpin--a blunt one. Here the desperately
     wounded man tries to walk to the hospital; there they paint the
     scratch so that they can find it again, lay the sufferer on a
     stretcher, and conduct him off the field with a band of music.

     At the end of a French duel the pair hug and kiss and cry, and
     praise each other's valor; then the surgeons make an examination
     and pick out the scratched one, and the other one helps him on to
     the litter and pays his fare; and in return the scratched one
     treats to champagne and oysters in the evening, and then "the
     incident is closed," as the French say. It is all polite, and
     gracious, and pretty, and impressive. At the end of an Austrian
     duel the antagonist that is alive gravely offers his hand to the
     other man, utters some phrases of courteous regret, then bids him
     good-by and goes his way, and that incident also is closed. The
     French duellist is painstakingly protected from danger, by the
     rules of the game. His antagonist's weapon cannot reach so far as
     his body; if he get a scratch it will not be above his elbow. But
     in Austria the rules of the game do not provide against danger,
     they carefully provide for it, usually. Commonly the combat must
     be kept up until one of the men is disabled; a non-disabling slash
     or stab does not retire him.

     For a matter of three months I watched the Viennese journals, and
     whenever a duel was reported in their telegraphic columns I
     scrap-booked it. By this record I find that duelling in Austria is
     not confined to journalists and old maids, as in France, but is
     indulged in by military men, journalists, students, physicians,
     lawyers, members of the legislature, and even the Cabinet, the
     Bench and the police. Duelling is forbidden by law; and so it seems
     odd to see the makers and administrators of the laws dancing on
     their work in this way. Some months ago Count Bodeni, at that time
     Chief of the Government, fought a pistol-duel here in the capital
     city of the Empire with representative Wolf, and both of those
     distinguished Christians came near getting turned out of the
     Church--for the Church as well as the State forbids duelling.

     In one case, lately, in Hungary, the police interfered and stopped
     a duel after the first innings. This was a sabre-duel between the
     chief of police and the city attorney. Unkind things were said
     about it by the newspapers. They said the police remembered their
     duty uncommonly well when their own officials were the parties
     concerned in duels. But I think the underlings showed good
     bread-and-butter judgment. If their superiors had carved each other
     well, the public would have asked, Where were the police? and their
     places would have been endangered; but custom does not require them
     to be around where mere unofficial citizens are explaining a thing
     with sabres.

     There was another duel--a double duel--going on in the immediate
     neighborhood at the time, and in this case the police obeyed custom
     and did not disturb it. Their bread and butter was not at stake
     there. In this duel a physician fought a couple of surgeons, and
     wounded both--one of them lightly, the other seriously. An
     undertaker wanted to keep people from interfering, but that was
     quite natural again.

     Selecting at random from my record, I next find a duel at Tarnopol
     between military men. An officer of the Tenth Dragoons charged an
     officer of the Ninth Dragoons with an offence against the laws of
     the card-table. There was a defect or a doubt somewhere in the
     matter, and this had to be examined and passed upon by a Court of
     Honor. So the case was sent up to Lemberg for this purpose. One
     would like to know what the defect was, but the newspaper does not
     say. A man here who has fought many duels and has a graveyard, says
     that probably the matter in question was as to whether the
     accusation was true or not; that if the charge was a very grave
     one--cheating, for instance--proof of its truth would rule the
     guilty officer out of the field of honor; the Court would not allow
     a gentleman to fight with such a person. You see what a solemn
     thing it is; you see how particular they are; any little careless
     act can lose you your privilege of getting yourself shot, here. The
     Court seems to have gone into the matter in a searching and careful
     fashion, for several months elapsed before it reached a decision.
     It then sanctioned a duel and the accused killed his accuser.

     Next I find a duel between a prince and a major; first with
     pistols--no result satisfactory to either party; then with sabres,
     and the major badly hurt.

     Next, a sabre-duel between journalists--the one a strong man, the
     other feeble and in poor health. It was brief; the strong one drove
     his sword through the weak one, and death was immediate.

     Next, a duel between a lieutenant and a student of medicine.
     According to the newspaper report these are the details. The
     student was in a restaurant one evening: passing along, he halted
     at a table to speak with some friends; near by sat a dozen military
     men; the student conceived that one of these was "staring" at him;
     he asked the officer to step outside and explain. This officer and
     another one gathered up their caps and sabres and went out with the
     student. Outside--this is the student's account--the student
     introduced himself to the offending officer and said, "You seemed
     to stare at me"; for answer, the officer struck at the student with
     his fist; the student parried the blow; both officers drew their
     sabres and attacked the young fellow, and one of them gave him a
     wound on the left arm; then they withdrew. This was Saturday night.
     The duel followed on Monday, in the military riding-school--the
     customary duelling-ground all over Austria, apparently. The weapons
     were pistols. The duelling terms were somewhat beyond custom in the
     matter of severity, if I may gather that from the statement that
     the combat was fought "unter sehr schweren Bedingungen"--to wit,
     "Distance, 15 steps--with 3 steps advance." There was but one
     exchange of shots. The student was hit. "He put his hand on his
     breast, his body began to bend slowly forward, then collapsed in
     death and sank to the ground."

     It is pathetic. There are other duels in my list, but I find in
     each and all of them one and the same ever-recurring defect--the
     principals are never present, but only their sham
     representatives. The real principals in any duel are not the
     duellists themselves, but their families. They do the mourning, the
     suffering, theirs is the loss and theirs the misery. They stake all
     that, the duellist stakes nothing but his life, and that is a
     trivial thing compared with what his death must cost those whom he
     leaves behind him. Challenges should not mention the duellist; he
     has nothing much at stake, and the real vengeance cannot reach him.
     The challenge should summon the offender's old gray mother, and his
     young wife and his little children,--these, or any to whom he is a
     dear and worshipped possession--and should say, "You have done me
     no harm, but I am the meek slave of a custom which requires me to
     crush the happiness out of your hearts and condemn you to years of
     pain and grief, in order that I may wash clean with your tears a
     stain which has been put upon me by another person."

     The logic of it is admirable: a person has robbed me of a penny; I
     must beggar ten innocent persons to make good my loss. Surely
     nobody's "honor" is worth all that.

     Since the duellist's family are the real principals in a duel, the
     State ought to compel them to be present at it. Custom, also, ought
     to be so amended as to require it; and without it no duel ought to
     be allowed to go on. If that student's unoffending mother had been
     present and watching the officer through her tears as he raised his
     pistol, he--why, he would have fired in the air. We know that. For
     we know how we are all made. Laws ought to be based upon the
     ascertained facts of our nature. It would be a simple thing to make
     a duelling law which would stop duelling.

     As things are now, the mother is never invited. She submits to
     this; and without outward complaint, for she, too, is the vassal of
     custom, and custom requires her to conceal her pain when she learns
     the disastrous news that her son must go to the duelling-field, and
     by the powerful force that is lodged in habit and custom she is
     enabled to obey this trying requirement--a requirement which exacts
     a miracle of her, and gets it. Last January a neighbor of ours who
     has a young son in the army was wakened by this youth at three
     o'clock one morning, and she sat up in bed and listened to his
     message:

     "I have come to tell you something, mother, which will distress
     you, but you must be good and brave, and bear it. I have been
     affronted by a fellow officer, and we fight at three this
     afternoon. Lie down and sleep, now, and think no more about it."

     She kissed him good night and lay down paralyzed with grief and
     fear, but said nothing. But she did not sleep; she prayed and
     mourned till the first streak of dawn, then fled to the nearest
     church and implored the Virgin for help; and from that church she
     went to another and another and another; church after church, and
     still church after church, and so spent all the day until three
     o'clock on her knees in agony and tears; then dragged herself home
     and sat down comfortless and desolate, to count the minutes, and
     wait, with an outward show of calm, for what had been ordained for
     her--happiness, or endless misery. Presently she heard the clank of
     a sabre--she had not known before what music was in that
     sound!--and her son put his head in and said:

     "X was in the wrong, and he apologized."

     So that incident was closed; and for the rest of her life the
     mother will always find something pleasant about the clank of a
     sabre, no doubt.

     In one of my listed duels--however, let it go, there is nothing
     particularly striking about it except that the seconds interfered.
     And prematurely, too, for neither man was dead. This was certainly
     irregular. Neither of the men liked it. It was a duel with cavalry
     sabres, between an editor and a lieutenant. The editor walked to
     the hospital, the lieutenant was carried. In this country an editor
     who can write well is valuable, but he is not likely to remain so
     unless he can handle a sabre with charm.

     The following very recent telegram shows that also in France duels
     are humanely stopped as soon as they approach the (French)
     danger-point:

     "Reuter's Telegram.--PARIS, March 5.--The duel between Colonels
     Henry and Picquart took place this morning in the Riding School of
     the Ecole Militaire, the doors of which were strictly guarded in
     order to prevent intrusion. The combatants, who fought with swords,
     were in position at ten o'clock.

     "At the first reengagement Lieutenant-Colonel Henry was slightly
     scratched in the fore arm, and just at the same moment his own
     blade appeared to touch his adversary's neck. Senator Ranc, who was
     Colonel Picquart's second, stopped the fight, but as it was found
     that his principal had not been touched, the combat continued. A
     very sharp encounter ensued, in which Colonel Henry was wounded in
     the elbow, and the duel terminated."

     After which, the stretcher and the band. In lurid contrast with
     this delicate flirtation, we have this fatal duel of day before
     yesterday in Italy, where the earnest Austrian duel is in vogue. I
     knew Cavalotti slightly, and this gives me a sort of personal
     interest in his duel. I first saw him in Rome several years ago. He
     was sitting on a block of stone in the Forum, and was writing
     something in his note-book--a poem or a challenge, or something
     like that--and the friend who pointed him out to me said, "That is
     Cavalotti--he has fought thirty duels; do not disturb him." I did
     not disturb him.

[May 13, 1907.] It is a long time ago. Cavalotti--poet, orator, satirist, statesman, patriot--was
a great man, and his death was deeply lamented by his countrymen: many monuments to his memory
testify to this. In his duels he killed several of his antagonists and disabled the rest. By
nature he was a little irascible. Once when the officials of the library of Bologna threw out
his books the gentle poet went up there and challenged the whole fifteen! His parliamentary
duties were exacting, but he proposed to keep coming up and fighting duels between trains until
all those officials had been retired from the activities of life. Although he always chose
the sword to fight with, he had never had a lesson with that weapon. When game was called he
waited for nothing, but always plunged at his opponent and rained such a storm of wild and
original thrusts and whacks upon him that the man was dead or crippled before he could bring
his science to bear. But his latest antagonist discarded science, and won. He held his sword
straight forward like a lance when Cavalotti made his plunge--with the result that he impaled
himself upon it. It entered his mouth and passed out at the back of his neck. Death was instantaneous.

[Dictated December 20, 1906.] Six months ago, when I was recalling early days in San Francisco,
I broke off at a place where I was about to tell about Captain Osborn's odd adventure at the
"What Cheer," or perhaps it was at another cheap feeding-place--the "Miners' Restaurant." It
was a place where one could get good food on the cheapest possible terms, and its popularity
was great among the multitudes whose purses were light It was a good place to go to, to observe
mixed humanity. Captain Osborn and Bret Harte went there one day and took a meal, and in the
course of it Osborn fished up an interesting reminiscence of a dozen years before and told
about it. It was to this effect:

He was a midshipman in the navy when the Californian gold craze burst upon the world and set
it wild with excitement. His ship made the long journey around the Horn and was approaching
her goal, the Golden Gate, when an accident happened.

"It happened to me," said Osborn. "I fell overboard. There was a heavy sea running, but no
one was much alarmed about me, because we had on board a newly patented life-saving device
which was believed to be competent to rescue anything that could fall overboard, from a midshipman
to an anchor. Ours was the only ship that had this device; we were very proud of it, and had
been anxious to give its powers a practical test. This thing was lashed to the garboard-strake
of the main-to'gallant mizzen-yard amidships,[19] and there was nothing to do but cut the lashings
and heave it over; it would do the rest. One day the cry of 'Man overboard!' brought all hands
on deck. Instantly the lashings were cut and the machine flung joyously over. Damnation, it
went to the bottom like an anvil! By the time that the ship was brought to and a boat manned,
I was become but a bobbing speck on the waves half a mile astern and losing my strength very
fast; but by good luck there was a common seaman on board who had practical ideas in his head
and hadn't waited to see what the patent machine was going to do, but had run aft and sprung
over after me the moment the alarm was cried through the ship. I had a good deal of a start
of him, and the seas made his progress slow and difficult, but he stuck to his work and fought
his way to me, and just in the nick of time he put his saving arms about me when I was about
to go down. He held me up until the boat reached us and rescued us. By that time I was unconscious,
and I was still unconscious when we arrived at the ship. A dangerous fever followed, and I
was delirious for three days; then I come to myself and at once inquired for my benefactor,
of course. He was gone. We were lying at anchor in the Bay and every man had deserted to the
gold-mines except the commissioned officers. I found out nothing about my benefactor but his
name--Burton Sanders--a name which I have held in grateful memory ever since. Every time I
have been on the Coast, these twelve or thirteen years, I have tried to get track of him, but
have never succeeded. I wish I could find him and make him understand that his brave act has
never been forgotten by me. Harte, I would rather see him and take him by the hand than any
other man on the planet."

At this stage or a little later there was an interruption. A waiter near by said to another
waiter, pointing,

"Take a look at that tramp that's coming in. Ain't that the one that bilked the house, last
week, out of ten cents?"

"I believe it is. Let him alone--don't pay any attention to him; wait till we can get a good
look at him."

The tramp approached timidly and hesitatingly, with the air of one unsure and apprehensive.
The waiters watched him furtively. When he was passing behind Harte's chair one of them said,

"He's the one!"--and they pounced upon him and proposed to turn him over to the police as a
bilk. He begged piteously. He confessed his guilt, but said he had been driven to his crime
by necessity--that when he had eaten the plate of beans and flipped out without paying for
it, it was because he was starving, and hadn't the ten cents to pay for it with. But the waiters
would listen to no explanations, no palliations; he must be placed in custody. He brushed his
hand across his eyes and said meekly that he would submit, being friendless. Each waiter took
him by an arm and faced him about to conduct him away. Then his melancholy eyes fell upon Captain
Osborn, and a light of glad and eager recognition flashed from them. He said,

"Weren't you a midshipman once, sir, in the old 'Lancaster'?"

"Yes," said Osborn. "Why?"

"Didn't you fall overboard?"

"Yes, I did. How do you come to know about it?"

"Wasn't there a new patent machine aboard, and didn't they throw it over to save you?"

"Why, yes," said Osborn, laughing gently, "but it didn't do it."

"No, sir, it was a sailor that done it."

"It certainly was. Look here, my man, you are getting distinctly interesting. Were you of our
crew?"

"Yes, sir, I was."

"I reckon you may be right. You do certainly know a good deal about that incident. What is
your name?"

"Burton Sanders."

The Captain sprang up, excited, and said,

"Give me your hand! Give me both your hands! I'd rather shake them than inherit a fortune!"--and
then he cried to the waiters, "Let him go!--take your hands off! He is my guest, and can have
anything and everything this house is able to furnish. I am responsible."

There was a love-feast, then. Captain Osborn ordered it regardless of expense, and he and Harte
sat there and listened while the man told stirring adventures of his life and fed himself up
to the eyebrows. Then Osborn wanted to be benefactor in his turn, and pay back some of his
debt. The man said it could all be paid with ten dollars--that it had been so long since he
had owned that amount of money that it would seem a fortune to him, and he should be grateful
beyond words if the Captain could spare him that amount. The Captain spared him ten broad twenty-dollar
gold pieces, and made him take them in spite of his modest protestations, and gave him his
address and said he must never fail to give him notice when he needed grateful service.

Several months later Harte stumbled upon the man in the street. He was most comfortably drunk,
and pleasant and chatty. Harte remarked upon the splendidly and movingly dramatic incident
of the restaurant, and said,

"How curious and fortunate and happy and interesting it was that you two should come together,
after that long separation, and at exactly the right moment to save you from disaster and turn
your defeat by the waiters into a victory. A preacher could make a great sermon out of that,
for it does look as if the hand of Providence was in it."

The hero's face assumed a sweetly genial expression, and he said,

"Well now, it wasn't Providence this time. I was running the arrangements myself."

"How do you mean?"

"Oh, I hadn't ever seen the gentleman before. I was at the next table, with my back to you
the whole time he was telling about it. I saw my chance, and slipped out and fetched the two
waiters with me and offered to give them a commission out of what I could get out of the Captain
if they would do a quarrel act with me and give me an opening. So, then, after a minute or
two I straggled back, and you know the rest of it as well as I do."

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

FOOTNOTES:

[18] This was tried. I well remember it.--M. T., October, '06.

[19] Can this be correct? I think there must be some mistake.--M. T.

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXXIII.

OCTOBER, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XXIII.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Sidenote: (1845.)]

[Dictated March 9, 1906.] ... I am talking of a time sixty years ago, and upwards. I remember
the names of some of those schoolmates, and, by fitful glimpses, even their faces rise dimly
before me for a moment--only just long enough to be recognized; then they vanish. I catch glimpses
of George Robards, the Latin pupil--slender, pale, studious, bending over his book and absorbed
in it, his long straight black hair hanging down below his jaws like a pair of curtains on
the sides of his face. I can see him give his head a toss and flirt one of the curtains back
around his head--to get it out of his way, apparently; really to show off. In that day it was
a great thing among the boys to have hair of so flexible a sort that it could be flung back
in that way, with a flirt of the head. George Robards was the envy of us all. For there was
no hair among us that was so competent for this exhibition as his--except, perhaps, the yellow
locks of Will Bowen and John Robards. My hair was a dense ruck of short curls, and so was my
brother Henry's. We tried all kinds of devices to get these crooks straightened out so that
they would flirt, but we never succeeded. Sometimes, by soaking our heads and then combing
and brushing our hair down tight and flat to our skulls, we could get it straight, temporarily,
and this gave us a comforting moment of joy; but the first time we gave it a flirt it all shrivelled
into curls again and our happiness was gone.

John Robards was the little brother of George; he was a wee chap with silky golden curtains
to his face which dangled to his shoulders and below, and could be flung back ravishingly.
When he was twelve years old he crossed the plains with his father amidst the rush of the gold-seekers
of '49; and I remember the departure of the cavalcade when it spurred westward. We were all
there to see and to envy. And I can still see that proud little chap sailing by on a great
horse, with his long locks streaming out behind. We were all on hand to gaze and envy when
he returned, two years later, in unimaginable glory--for he had travelled! None of us had ever
been forty miles from home. But he had crossed the Continent. He had been in the gold-mines,
that fairyland of our imagination. And he had done a still more wonderful thing. He had been
in ships--in ships on the actual ocean; in ships on three actual oceans. For he had sailed
down the Pacific and around the Horn among icebergs and through snow-storms and wild wintry
gales, and had sailed on and turned the corner and flown northward in the trades and up through
the blistering equatorial waters--and there in his brown face were the proofs of what he had
been through. We would have sold our souls to Satan for the privilege of trading places with him.

I saw him when I was out on that Missouri trip four years ago. He was old then--though not
quite so old as I--and the burden of life was upon him. He said his granddaughter, twelve years
old, had read my books and would like to see me. It was a pathetic time, for she was a prisoner
in her room and marked for death. And John knew that she was passing swiftly away. Twelve years
old--just her grandfather's age when he rode away on that great journey with his yellow hair
flapping behind him. In her I seemed to see that boy again. It was as if he had come back out
of that remote past and was present before me in his golden youth. Her malady was heart disease,
and her brief life came to a close a few days later.

Another of those schoolboys was John Garth. He became a prosperous banker and a prominent and
valued citizen; and a few years ago he died, rich and honored. He died. It is what I have to
say about so many of those boys and girls. The widow still lives, and there are grandchildren.
In her pantalette days and my barefoot days she was a schoolmate of mine. I saw John's tomb
when I made that Missouri visit.

Her father, Mr. Kercheval, had an apprentice in the early days when I was nine years old, and
he had also a slave woman who had many merits. But I can't feel very kindly or forgivingly
toward either that good apprentice boy or that good slave woman, for they saved my life. One
day when I was playing on a loose log which I supposed was attached to a raft--but it wasn't--it
tilted me into Bear Creek. And when I had been under water twice and was coming up to make
the third and fatal descent my fingers appeared above the water and that slave woman seized
them and pulled me out. Within a week I was in again, and that apprentice had to come along
just at the wrong time, and he plunged in and dived, pawed around on the bottom and found me,
and dragged me out and emptied the water out of me, and I was saved again. I was drowned seven
times after that before I learned to swim--once in Bear Creek and six times in the Mississippi.
I do not now know who the people were who interfered with the intentions of a Providence wiser
than themselves, but I hold a grudge against them yet. When I told the tale of these remarkable
happenings to Rev. Dr. Burton of Hartford, he said he did not believe it. He slipped on the
ice the very next year and sprained his ankle.

Will Bowen was another schoolmate, and so was his brother, Sam, who was his junior by a couple
of years. Before the Civil War broke out, both became St. Louis and New Orleans pilots. Both
are dead, long ago.

[Sidenote: (1845.)]

[Dictated March 16, 1906.] We will return to those schoolchildren of sixty years ago. I recall
Mary Miller. She was not my first sweetheart, but I think she was the first one that furnished
me a broken heart. I fell in love with her when she was eighteen and I was nine, but she scorned
me, and I recognized that this was a cold world. I had not noticed that temperature before.
I believe I was as miserable as even a grown man could be. But I think that this sorrow did
not remain with me long. As I remember it, I soon transferred my worship to Artimisia Briggs,
who was a year older than Mary Miller. When I revealed my passion to her she did not scoff
at it. She did not make fun of it. She was very kind and gentle about it. But she was also
firm, and said she did not want to be pestered by children.

And there was Mary Lacy. She was a schoolmate. But she also was out of my class because of
her advanced age. She was pretty wild and determined and independent. But she married, and
at once settled down and became in all ways a model matron and was as highly respected as any
matron in the town. Four years ago she was still living, and had been married fifty years.

Jimmie McDaniel was another schoolmate. His age and mine about tallied. His father kept the
candy-shop and he was the most envied little chap in the town--after Tom Blankenship ("Huck
Finn")--for although we never saw him eating candy, we supposed that it was, nevertheless,
his ordinary diet. He pretended that he never ate it, and didn't care for it because there
was nothing forbidden about it--there was plenty of it and he could have as much of it as he
wanted. He was the first human being to whom I ever told a humorous story, so far as I can
remember. This was about Jim Wolfe and the cats; and I gave him that tale the morning after
that memorable episode. I thought he would laugh his teeth out. I had never been so proud and
happy before, and have seldom been so proud and happy since. I saw him four years ago when
I was out there. He wore a beard, gray and venerable, that came half-way down to his knees,
and yet it was not difficult for me to recognize him. He had been married fifty-four years.
He had many children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and also even posterity, they
all said-- thousands--yet the boy to whom I had told the cat story when we were callow juveniles
was still present in that cheerful little old man.

Artimisia Briggs got married not long after refusing me. She married Richmond, the stone mason,
who was my Methodist Sunday-school teacher in the earliest days, and he had one distinction
which I envied him: at some time or other he had hit his thumb with his hammer and the result
was a thumb nail which remained permanently twisted and distorted and curved and pointed, like
a parrot's beak. I should not consider it an ornament now, I suppose, but it had a fascination
for me then, and a vast value, because it was the only one in the town. He was a very kindly
and considerate Sunday-school teacher, and patient and compassionate, so he was the favorite
teacher with us little chaps. In that school they had slender oblong pasteboard blue tickets,
each with a verse from the Testament printed on it, and you could get a blue ticket by reciting
two verses. By reciting five verses you could get three blue tickets, and you could trade these
at the bookcase and borrow a book for a week. I was under Mr. Richmond's spiritual care every
now and then for two or three years, and he was never hard upon me. I always recited the same
five verses every Sunday. He was always satisfied with the performance. He never seemed to
notice that these were the same five foolish virgins that he had been hearing about every Sunday
for months. I always got my tickets and exchanged them for a book. They were pretty dreary
books, for there was not a bad boy in the entire bookcase. They were all good boys and good
girls and drearily uninteresting, but they were better society than none, and I was glad to
have their company and disapprove of it.

[Sidenote: (1849.)]

Twenty years ago Mr. Richmond had become possessed of Tom Sawyer's cave in the hills three
miles from town, and had made a tourist-resort of it. In 1849 when the gold-seekers were streaming
through our little town of Hannibal, many of our grown men got the gold fever, and I think
that all the boys had it. On the Saturday holidays in summer-time we used to borrow skiffs
whose owners were not present and go down the river three miles to the cave hollow (Missourian
for "valley"), and there we staked out claims and pretended to dig gold, panning out half a
dollar a day at first; two or three times as much, later, and by and by whole fortunes, as
our imaginations became inured to the work. Stupid and unprophetic lads! We were doing this
in play and never suspecting. Why, that cave hollow and all the adjacent hills were made of
gold! But we did not know it. We took it for dirt. We left its rich secret in its own peaceful
possession and grew up in poverty and went wandering about the world struggling for bread--and
this because we had not the gift of prophecy. That region was all dirt and rocks to us, yet
all it needed was to be ground up and scientifically handled and it was gold. That is to say,
the whole region was a cement-mine--and they make the finest kind of Portland cement there
now, five thousand barrels a day, with a plant that cost $2,000,000.

For a little while Reuel Gridley attended that school of ours. He was an elderly pupil; he
was perhaps twenty-two or twenty-three years old. Then came the Mexican War and he volunteered.
A company of infantry was raised in our town and Mr. Hickman, a tall, straight, handsome athlete
of twenty-five, was made captain of it and had a sword by his side and a broad yellow stripe
down the leg of his gray pants. And when that company marched back and forth through the streets
in its smart uniform--which it did several times a day for drill--its evolutions were attended
by all the boys whenever the school hours permitted. I can see that marching company yet, and
I can almost feel again the consuming desire that I had to join it. But they had no use for
boys of twelve and thirteen, and before I had a chance in another war the desire to kill people
to whom I had not been introduced had passed away.

I saw the splendid Hickman in his old age. He seemed about the oldest man I had ever seen--an
amazing and melancholy contrast with the showy young captain I had seen preparing his warriors
for carnage so many, many years before. Hickman is dead--it is the old story. As Susy said,
"What is it all for?"

Reuel Gridley went away to the wars and we heard of him no more for fifteen or sixteen years.
Then one day in Carson City while I was having a difficulty with an editor on the sidewalk--an
editor better built for war than I was--I heard a voice say, "Give him the best you've got,
Sam, I'm at your back." It was Reuel Gridley. He said he had not recognized me by my face but
by my drawling style of speech.

He went down to the Reese River mines about that time and presently he lost an election bet
in his mining camp, and by the terms of it he was obliged to buy a fifty-pound sack of self-raising
flour and carry it through the town, preceded by music, and deliver it to the winner of the
bet. Of course the whole camp was present and full of fluid and enthusiasm. The winner of the
bet put up the sack at auction for the benefit of the United States Sanitary Fund, and sold
it. The excitement grew and grew. The sack was sold over and over again for the benefit of
the Fund. The news of it came to Virginia City by telegraph. It produced great enthusiasm,
and Reuel Gridley was begged by telegraph to bring the sack and have an auction in Virginia
City. He brought it. An open barouche was provided, also a brass band. The sack was sold over
and over again at Gold Hill, then was brought up to Virginia City toward night and sold--and
sold again, and again, and still again, netting twenty or thirty thousand dollars for the Sanitary
Fund. Gridley carried it across California and sold it at various towns. He sold it for large
sums in Sacramento and in San Francisco. He brought it East, sold it in New York and in various
other cities, then carried it out to a great Fair at St. Louis, and went on selling it; and
finally made it up into small cakes and sold those at a dollar apiece. First and last, the
sack of flour which had originally cost ten dollars, perhaps, netted more than two hundred
thousand dollars for the Sanitary Fund. Reuel Gridley has been dead these many, many years--it
is the old story.

In that school were the first Jews I had ever seen. It took me a good while to get over the
awe of it. To my fancy they were clothed invisibly in the damp and cobwebby mould of antiquity.
They carried me back to Egypt, and in imagination I moved among the Pharaohs and all the shadowy
celebrities of that remote age. The name of the boys was Levin. We had a collective name for
them which was the only really large and handsome witticism that was ever born in that Congressional
district. We called them "Twenty-two"--and even when the joke was old and had been worn threadbare
we always followed it with the explanation, to make sure that it would be understood, "Twice
Levin--twenty-two."

There were other boys whose names remain with me. Irving Ayres--but no matter, he is dead.
Then there was George Butler, whom I remember as a child of seven wearing a blue leather belt
with a brass buckle, and hated and envied by all the boys on account of it. He was a nephew
of General Ben Butler and fought gallantly at Ball's Bluff and in several other actions of
the Civil War. He is dead, long and long ago.

Will Bowen (dead long ago), Ed Stevens (dead long ago) and John Briggs were special mates of
mine. John is still living.

[Sidenote: (1845.)]

In 1845, when I was ten years old, there was an epidemic of measles in the town and it made
a most alarming slaughter among the little people. There was a funeral almost daily, and the
mothers of the town were nearly demented with fright. My mother was greatly troubled. She worried
over Pamela and Henry and me, and took constant and extraordinary pains to keep us from coming
into contact with the contagion. But upon reflection I believed that her judgment was at fault.
It seemed to me that I could improve upon it if left to my own devices. I cannot remember now
whether I was frightened about the measles or not, but I clearly remember that I grew very
tired of the suspense I suffered on account of being continually under the threat of death.
I remember that I got so weary of it and so anxious to have the matter settled one way or the
other, and promptly, that this anxiety spoiled my days and my nights. I had no pleasure in
them. I made up my mind to end this suspense and be done with it. Will Bowen was dangerously
ill with the measles and I thought I would go down there and catch them. I entered the house
by the front way and slipped along through rooms and halls, keeping sharp watch against discovery,
and at last I reached Will's bed-chamber in the rear of the house on the second floor and got
into it uncaptured. But that was as far as my victory reached. His mother caught me there a
moment later and snatched me out of the house and gave me a most competent scolding and drove
me away. She was so scared that she could hardly get her words out, and her face was white.
I saw that I must manage better next time, and I did. I hung about the lane at the rear of
the house and watched through cracks in the fence until I was convinced that the conditions
were favorable; then I slipped through the back yard and up the back way and got into the room
and into the bed with Will Bowen without being observed. I don't know how long I was in the
bed. I only remember that Will Bowen, as society, had no value for me, for he was too sick
to even notice that I was there. When I heard his mother coming I covered up my head, but that
device was a failure. It was dead summer-time--the cover was nothing more than a limp blanket
or sheet, and anybody could see that there were two of us under it. It didn't remain two very
long. Mrs. Bowen snatched me out of the bed and conducted me home herself, with a grip on my
collar which she never loosened until she delivered me into my mother's hands along with her
opinion of that kind of a boy.

It was a good case of measles that resulted. It brought me within a shade of death's door.
It brought me to where I no longer took any interest in anything, but, on the contrary, felt
a total absence of interest--which was most placid and enchanting. I have never enjoyed anything
in my life any more than I enjoyed dying that time. I was, in effect, dying. The word had been
passed and the family notified to assemble around the bed and see me off. I knew them all.
There was no doubtfulness in my vision. They were all crying, but that did not affect me. I
took but the vaguest interest in it, and that merely because I was the centre of all this emotional
attention and was gratified by it and vain of it.

When Dr. Cunningham had made up his mind that nothing more could be done for me he put bags
of hot ashes all over me. He put them on my breast, on my wrists, on my ankles; and so, very
much to his astonishment--and doubtless to my regret--he dragged me back into this world and
set me going again.

[Dictated July 26, 1907.] In an article entitled "England's Ovation to Mark Twain," Sydney
Brooks--but never mind that, now.

I was in Oxford by seven o'clock that evening (June 25, 1907), and trying on the scarlet gown
which the tailor had been constructing, and found it right--right and surpassingly becoming.
At half past ten the next morning we assembled at All Souls College and marched thence, gowned,
mortar-boarded and in double file, down a long street to the Sheldonian Theatre, between solid
walls of the populace, very much hurrah'd and limitlessly kodak'd. We made a procession of
considerable length and distinction and picturesqueness, with the Chancellor, Lord Curzon,
late Viceroy of India, in his rich robe of black and gold, in the lead, followed by a pair
of trim little boy train-bearers, and the train-bearers followed by the young Prince Arthur
of Connaught, who was to be made a D.C.L. The detachment of D.C.L.'s were followed by the Doctors
of Science, and these by the Doctors of Literature, and these in turn by the Doctors of Music.
Sidney Colvin marched in front of me; I was coupled with Sidney Lee, and Kipling followed us;
General Booth, of the Salvation Army, was in the squadron of D.C.L.'s.

Our journey ended, we were halted in a fine old hall whence we could see, through a corridor
of some length, the massed audience in the theatre. Here for a little time we moved about and
chatted and made acquaintanceships; then the D.C.L.'s were summoned, and they marched through
that corridor and the shouting began in the theatre. It would be some time before the Doctors
of Literature and of Science would be called for, because each of those D.C.L.'s had to have
a couple of Latin speeches made over him before his promotion would be complete--one by the
Regius Professor of Civil Law, the other by the Chancellor. After a while I asked Sir William
Ramsay if a person might smoke here and not get shot. He said, "Yes," but that whoever did
it and got caught would be fined a guinea, and perhaps hanged later. He said he knew of a place
where we could accomplish at least as much as half of a smoke before any informers would be
likely to chance upon us, and he was ready to show the way to any who might be willing to risk
the guinea and the hanging. By request he led the way, and Kipling, Sir Norman Lockyer and
I followed. We crossed an unpopulated quadrangle and stood under one of its exits--an archway
of massive masonry--and there we lit up and began to take comfort. The photographers soon arrived,
but they were courteous and friendly and gave us no trouble, and we gave them none. They grouped
us in all sorts of ways and photographed us at their diligent leisure, while we smoked and
talked. We were there more than an hour; then we returned to headquarters, happy, content,
and greatly refreshed. Presently we filed into the theatre, under a very satisfactory hurrah,
and waited in a crimson column, dividing the crowded pit through the middle, until each of
us in his turn should be called to stand before the Chancellor and hear our merits set forth
in sonorous Latin. Meantime, Kipling and I wrote autographs until some good kind soul interfered
in our behalf and procured for us a rest.

I will now save what is left of my modesty by quoting a paragraph from Sydney Brooks's "Ovation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Let those stars take the place of it for the present. Sydney Brooks has done it well. It makes
me proud to read it; as proud as I was in that old day, sixty-two years ago, when I lay dying,
the centre of attraction, with one eye piously closed upon the fleeting vanities of this life--an
excellent effect--and the other open a crack to observe the tears, the sorrow, the admiration--all
for me--all for me!

Ah, that was the proudest moment of my long life--until Oxford!

       *       *       *       *       *

Most Americans have been to Oxford and will remember what a dream of the Middle Ages it is,
with its crooked lanes, its gray and stately piles of ancient architecture and its meditation-breeding
air of repose and dignity and unkinship with the noise and fret and hurry and bustle of these
modern days. As a dream of the Middle Ages Oxford was not perfect until Pageant day arrived
and furnished certain details which had been for generations lacking. These details began to
appear at mid-afternoon on the 27th. At that time singles, couples, groups and squadrons of
the three thousand five hundred costumed characters who were to take part in the Pageant began
to ooze and drip and stream through house doors, all over the old town, and wend toward the
meadows outside the walls. Soon the lanes were thronged with costumes which Oxford had from
time to time seen and been familiar with in bygone centuries--fashions of dress which marked
off centuries as by dates, and mile-stoned them back, and back, and back, until history faded
into legend and tradition, when Arthur was a fact and the Round Table a reality. In this rich
commingling of quaint and strange and brilliantly colored fashions in dress the dress-changes
of Oxford for twelve centuries stood livid and realized to the eye; Oxford as a dream of the
Middle Ages was complete now as it had never, in our day, before been complete; at last there
was no discord; the mouldering old buildings, and the picturesque throngs drifting past them,
were in harmony; soon--astonishingly soon!--the only persons that seemed out of place, and
grotesquely and offensively and criminally out of place were such persons as came intruding
along clothed in the ugly and odious fashions of the twentieth century; they were a bitterness
to the feelings, an insult to the eye.

The make-ups of illustrious historic personages seemed perfect, both as to portraiture and
costume; one had no trouble in recognizing them. Also, I was apparently quite easily recognizable
myself. The first corner I turned brought me suddenly face to face with Henry VIII, a person
whom I had been implacably disliking for sixty years; but when he put out his hand with royal
courtliness and grace and said, "Welcome, well-beloved stranger, to my century and to the hospitalities
of my realm," my old prejudices vanished away and I forgave him. I think now that Henry the
Eighth has been over-abused, and that most of us, if we had been situated as he was, domestically,
would not have been able to get along with as limited a graveyard as he forced himself to put
up with. I feel now that he was one of the nicest men in history. Personal contact with a king
is more effective in removing baleful prejudices than is any amount of argument drawn from
tales and histories. If I had a child I would name it Henry the Eighth, regardless of sex.

Do you remember Charles the First?--and his broad slouch with the plume in it? and his slender,
tall figure? and his body clothed in velvet doublet with lace sleeves, and his legs in leather,
with long rapier at his side and his spurs on his heels? I encountered him at the next corner,
and knew him in a moment--knew him as perfectly and as vividly as I should know the Grand Chain
in the Mississippi if I should see it from the pilot-house after all these years. He bent his
body and gave his hat a sweep that fetched its plume within an inch of the ground, and gave
me a welcome that went to my heart. This king has been much maligned; I shall understand him
better hereafter, and shall regret him more than I have been in the habit of doing these fifty
or sixty years. He did some things in his time, which might better have been left undone, and
which cast a shadow upon his name--we all know that, we all concede it--but our error has been
in regarding them as crimes and in calling them by that name, whereas I perceive now that they
were only indiscretions. At every few steps I met persons of deathless name whom I had never
encountered before outside of pictures and statuary and history, and these were most thrilling
and charming encounters. I had hand-shakes with Henry the Second, who had not been seen in
the Oxford streets for nearly eight hundred years; and with the Fair Rosamond, whom I now believe
to have been chaste and blameless, although I had thought differently about it before; and
with Shakespeare, one of the pleasantest foreigners I have ever gotten acquainted with; and
with Roger Bacon; and with Queen Elizabeth, who talked five minutes and never swore once--a
fact which gave me a new and good opinion of her and moved me to forgive her for beheading
the Scottish Mary, if she really did it, which I now doubt; and with the quaintly and anciently
clad young King Harold Harefoot, of near nine hundred years ago, who came flying by on a bicycle
and smoking a pipe, but at once checked up and got off to shake with me; and also I met a bishop
who had lost his way because this was the first time he had been inside the walls of Oxford
for as much as twelve hundred years or thereabouts. By this time I had grown so used to the
obliterated ages and their best-known people that if I had met Adam I should not have been
either surprised or embarrassed; and if he had come in a racing automobile and a cloud of dust,
with nothing on but his fig-leaf, it would have seemed to me all right and harmonious.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XXIV.

BY MARK TWAIN.

From Susy's Biography of Me [1885-6].

     Mamma and papa have returned from Onteora and they have had a
     delightful visit. Mr. Frank Stockton was down in Virginia and could
     not reach Onteora in time, so they did not see him, and Mrs. Mary
     Mapes Dodge was ill and couldn't go to Onteora, but Mrs. General
     Custer was there, and mamma said that she was a very attractive,
     sweet appearing woman.

[Dictated October 9, 1906.] Onteora was situated high up in the Catskill Mountains, in the
centre of a far-reaching solitude. I do not mean that the region was wholly uninhabited; there
were farmhouses here and there, at generous distances apart. Their occupants were descendants
of ancestors who had built the houses in Rip Van Winkle's time, or earlier; and those ancestors
were not more primitive than were this posterity of theirs. The city people were as foreign
and unfamiliar and strange to them as monkeys would have been, and they would have respected
the monkeys as much as they respected these elegant summer-resorters. The resorters were a
puzzle to them, their ways were so strange and their interests so trivial. They drove the resorters
over the mountain roads and listened in shamed surprise at their bursts of enthusiasm over
the scenery. The farmers had had that scenery on exhibition from their mountain roosts all
their lives, and had never noticed anything remarkable about it. By way of an incident: a pair
of these primitives were overheard chatting about the resorters, one day, and in the course
of their talk this remark was dropped:

"I was a-drivin' a passel of 'em round about yisterday evenin', quiet ones, you know, still
and solemn, and all to wunst they busted out to make your hair lift and I judged hell was to
pay. Now what do you reckon it was? It wa'n't anything but jest one of them common damned yaller
sunsets."

In those days--

[Tuesday, October 16, 1906.] ... Warner is gone. Stockton is gone. I attended both funerals.
Warner was a near neighbor, from the autumn of '71 until his death, nineteen years afterward.
It is not the privilege of the most of us to have many intimate friends--a dozen is our aggregate--but
I think he could count his by the score. It is seldom that a man is so beloved by both sexes
and all ages as Warner was. There was a charm about his spirit, and his ways, and his words,
that won all that came within the sphere of its influence. Our children adopted him while they
were little creatures, and thenceforth, to the end, he was "Cousin Charley" to them. He was
"Uncle Charley" to the children of more than one other friend. Mrs. Clemens was very fond of
him, and he always called her by her first name--shortened. Warner died, as she died, and as
I would die--without premonition, without a moment's warning.

Uncle Remus still lives, and must be over a thousand years old. Indeed, I know that this must
be so, because I have seen a new photograph of him in the public prints within the last month
or so, and in that picture his aspects are distinctly and strikingly geological, and one can
see he is thinking about the mastodons and plesiosaurians that he used to play with when he
was young.

It is just a quarter of a century since I have seen Uncle Remus. He visited us in our home
in Hartford and was reverently devoured by the big eyes of Susy and Clara, for I made a deep
and awful impression upon the little creatures--who knew his book by heart through my nightly
declamation of its tales to them--by revealing to them privately that he was the real Uncle
Remus whitewashed so that he could come into people's houses the front way.

He was the bashfulest grown person I have ever met. When there were people about he stayed
silent, and seemed to suffer until they were gone. But he was lovely, nevertheless; for the
sweetness and benignity of the immortal Remus looked out from his eyes, and the graces and
sincerities of his character shone in his face.

It may be that Jim Wolf was as bashful as Harris. It hardly seems possible, yet as I look back
fifty-six years and consider Jim Wolf, I am almost persuaded that he was. He was our long slim
apprentice in my brother's printing-office in Hannibal. He was seventeen, and yet he was as
much as four times as bashful as I was, though I was only fourteen. He boarded and slept in
the house, but he was always tongue-tied in the presence of my sister, and when even my gentle
mother spoke to him he could not answer save in frightened monosyllables. He would not enter
a room where a girl was; nothing could persuade him to do such a thing. Once when he was in
our small parlor alone, two majestic old maids entered and seated themselves in such a way
that Jim could not escape without passing by them. He would as soon have thought of passing
by one of Harris's plesiosaurians ninety feet long. I came in presently, was charmed with the
situation, and sat down in a corner to watch Jim suffer, and enjoy it. My mother followed a
minute later and sat down with the visitors and began to talk. Jim sat upright in his chair,
and during a quarter of an hour he did not change his position by a shade--neither General
Grant nor a bronze image could have maintained that immovable pose more successfully. I mean
as to body and limbs; with the face there was a difference. By fleeting revealments of the
face I saw that something was happening--something out of the common. There would be a sudden
twitch of the muscles of the face, an instant distortion, which in the next instant had passed
and left no trace. These twitches gradually grew in frequency, but no muscle outside of the
face lost any of its rigidity, or betrayed any interest in what was happening to Jim. I mean
if something was happening to him, and I knew perfectly well that that was the case. At last
a pair of tears began to swim slowly down his cheeks amongst the twitchings, but Jim sat still
and let them run; then I saw his right hand steal along his thigh until half-way to his knee,
then take a vigorous grip upon the cloth.

That was a wasp that he was grabbing! A colony of them were climbing up his legs and prospecting
around, and every time he winced they stabbed him to the hilt--so for a quarter of an hour
one group of excursionists after another climbed up Jim's legs and resented even the slightest
wince or squirm that he indulged himself with, in his misery. When the entertainment had become
nearly unbearable, he conceived the idea of gripping them between his fingers and putting them
out of commission. He succeeded with many of them, but at great cost, for, as he couldn't see
the wasp, he was as likely to take hold of the wrong end of him as he was the right; then the
dying wasp gave him a punch to remember the incident by.

If those ladies had stayed all day, and if all the wasps in Missouri had come and climbed up
Jim's legs, nobody there would ever have known it but Jim and the wasps and me. There he would
have sat until the ladies left.

When they finally went away we went up-stairs and he took his clothes off, and his legs were
a picture to look at. They looked as if they were mailed all over with shirt buttons, each
with a single red hole in the centre. The pain was intolerable--no, would have been intolerable,
but the pain of the presence of those ladies had been so much harder to bear that the pain
of the wasps' stings was quite pleasant and enjoyable by comparison.

Jim never could enjoy wasps. I remember once--

     From Susy's Biography of Me [1885-6].

     Mamma has given me a very pleasant little newspaper scrap about
     papa, to copy. I will put it in here.

[Thursday, October 11, 1906.] It was a rather strong compliment; I think I will leave it out.
It was from James Redpath.

The chief ingredients of Redpath's make-up were honesty, sincerity, kindliness, and pluck.
He wasn't afraid. He was one of Ossawatomie Brown's right-hand men in the bleeding Kansas days;
he was all through that struggle. He carried his life in his hands, and from one day to another
it wasn't worth the price of a night's lodging. He had a small body of daring men under him,
and they were constantly being hunted by the "jayhawkers," who were proslavery Missourians,
guerillas, modern free lances.

[Friday, October 12, 1906.] ... I can't think of the name of that daredevil guerilla who led
the jayhawkers and chased Redpath up and down the country, and, in turn, was chased by Redpath.
By grace of the chances of war, the two men never met in the field, though they several times
came within an ace of it.

Ten or twelve years later, Redpath was earning his living in Boston as chief of the lecture
business in the United States. Fifteen or sixteen years after his Kansas adventures I became
a public lecturer, and he was my agent. Along there somewhere was a press dinner, one November
night, at the Tremont Hotel in Boston, and I attended it. I sat near the head of the table,
with Redpath between me and the chairman; a stranger sat on my other side. I tried several
times to talk with the stranger, but he seemed to be out of words and I presently ceased from
troubling him. He was manifestly a very shy man, and, moreover, he might have been losing sleep
the night before.

The first man called up was Redpath. At the mention of the name the stranger started, and showed
interest. He fixed a fascinated eye on Redpath, and lost not a word of his speech. Redpath
told some stirring incidents of his career in Kansas, and said, among other things:

"Three times I came near capturing the gallant jayhawker chief, and once he actually captured
me, but didn't know me and let me go, because he said he was hot on Redpath's trail and couldn't
afford to waste time and rope on inconsequential small fry."

My stranger was called up next, and when Redpath heard his name he, in turn, showed a startled
interest. The stranger said, bending a caressing glance upon Redpath and speaking gently--I
may even say sweetly:

"You realize that I was that jayhawker chief. I am glad to know you now and take you to my
heart and call you friend"--then he added, in a voice that was pathetic with regret, "but if
I had only known you then, what tumultuous happiness I should have had in your society!--while
it lasted."

The last quarter of a century of my life has been pretty constantly and faithfully devoted
to the study of the human race--that is to say, the study of myself, for, in my individual
person, I am the entire human race compacted together. In my contacts with the species I find
no one who possesses a quality which I do not possess. The shades of difference between other
people and me serve to make variety and prevent monotony, but that is all; broadly speaking,
we are all alike; and so by studying myself carefully and comparing myself with other people,
and noting the divergences, I have been enabled to acquire a knowledge of the human race which
I perceive is more accurate and more comprehensive than that which has been acquired and revealed
by any other member of our species. As a result, my private and concealed opinion of myself
is not of a complimentary sort. It follows that my estimate of the human race is the duplicate
of my estimate of myself.

I am not proposing to discuss all of the peculiarities of the human race, at this time; I only
wish to touch lightly upon one or two of them. To begin with, I wonder why a man should prefer
a good billiard-table to a poor one; and why he should prefer straight cues to crooked ones;
and why he should prefer round balls to chipped ones; and why he should prefer a level table
to one that slants; and why he should prefer responsive cushions to the dull and unresponsive
kind. I wonder at these things, because when we examine the matter we find that the essentials
involved in billiards are as competently and exhaustively furnished by a bad billiard outfit
as they are by the best one. One of the essentials is amusement. Very well, if there is any
more amusement to be gotten out of the one outfit than out of the other, the facts are in favor
of the bad outfit. The bad outfit will always furnish thirty per cent. more fun for the players
and for the spectators than will the good outfit. Another essential of the game is that the
outfit shall give the players full opportunity to exercise their best skill, and display it
in a way to compel the admiration of the spectators. Very well, the bad outfit is nothing behind
the good one in this regard. It is a difficult matter to estimate correctly the eccentricities
of chipped balls and a slanting table, and make the right allowance for them and secure a count;
the finest kind of skill is required to accomplish the satisfactory result. Another essential
of the game is that it shall add to the interest of the game by furnishing opportunities to
bet. Very well, in this regard no good outfit can claim any advantage over a bad one. I know,
by experience, that a bad outfit is as valuable as the best one; that an outfit that couldn't
be sold at auction for seven dollars is just as valuable for all the essentials of the game
as an outfit that is worth a thousand.

I acquired some of this learning in Jackass Gulch, California, more than forty years ago. Jackass
Gulch had once been a rich and thriving surface-mining camp. By and by its gold deposits were
exhausted; then the people began to go away, and the town began to decay, and rapidly; in my
time it had disappeared. Where the bank, and the city hall, and the church, and the gambling-dens,
and the newspaper office, and the streets of brick blocks had been, was nothing now but a wide
and beautiful expanse of green grass, a peaceful and charming solitude. Half a dozen scattered
dwellings were still inhabited, and there was still one saloon of a ruined and rickety character
struggling for life, but doomed. In its bar was a billiard outfit that was the counterpart
of the one in my father-in-law's garret. The balls were chipped, the cloth was darned and patched,
the table's surface was undulating, and the cues were headless and had the curve of a parenthesis--but
the forlorn remnant of marooned miners played games there, and those games were more entertaining
to look at than a circus and a grand opera combined. Nothing but a quite extraordinary skill
could score a carom on that table--a skill that required the nicest estimate of force, distance,
and how much to allow for the various slants of the table and the other formidable peculiarities
and idiosyncrasies furnished by the contradictions of the outfit. Last winter, here in New
York, I saw Hoppe and Schaefer and Sutton and the three or four other billiard champions of
world-wide fame contend against each other, and certainly the art and science displayed were
a wonder to see; yet I saw nothing there in the way of science and art that was more wonderful
than shots which I had seen Texas Tom make on the wavy surface of that poor old wreck in the
perishing saloon at Jackass Gulch forty years before. Once I saw Texas Tom make a string of
seven points on a single inning!--all calculated shots, and not a fluke or a scratch among
them. I often saw him make runs of four, but when he made his great string of seven, the boys
went wild with enthusiasm and admiration. The joy and the noise exceeded that which the great
gathering at Madison Square produced when Sutton scored five hundred points at the eighteen-inch
game, on a world-famous night last winter. With practice, that champion could score nineteen
or twenty on the Jackass Gulch table; but to start with, Texas Tom would show him miracles
that would astonish him; also it might have another handsome result: it might persuade the
great experts to discard their own trifling game and bring the Jackass Gulch outfit here and
exhibit their skill in a game worth a hundred of the discarded one, for profound and breathless
interest, and for displays of almost superhuman skill.

In my experience, games played with a fiendish outfit furnish ecstasies of delight which games
played with the other kind cannot match. Twenty-seven years ago my budding little family spent
the summer at Bateman's Point, near Newport, Rhode Island. It was a comfortable boarding-place,
well stocked with sweet mothers and little children, but the male sex was scarce; however,
there was another young fellow besides myself, and he and I had good times--Higgins was his
name, but that was not his fault. He was a very pleasant and companionable person. On the premises
there was what had once been a bowling-alley. It was a single alley, and it was estimated that
it had been out of repair for sixty years--but not the balls, the balls were in good condition;
there were forty-one of them, and they ranged in size from a grapefruit up to a lignum-vitæ
sphere that you could hardly lift. Higgins and I played on that alley day after day. At first,
one of us located himself at the bottom end to set up the pins in case anything should happen
to them, but nothing happened. The surface of that alley consisted of a rolling stretch of
elevations and depressions, and neither of us could, by any art known to us, persuade a ball
to stay on the alley until it should accomplish something. Little balls and big, the same thing
always happened--the ball left the alley before it was half-way home and went thundering down
alongside of it the rest of the way and made the gamekeeper climb out and take care of himself.
No matter, we persevered, and were rewarded. We examined the alley, noted and located a lot
of its peculiarities, and little by little we learned how to deliver a ball in such a way that
it would travel home and knock down a pin or two. By and by we succeeded in improving our game
to a point where we were able to get all of the pins with thirty-five balls--so we made it
a thirty-five-ball game. If the player did not succeed with thirty-five, he had lost the game.
I suppose that all the balls, taken together, weighed five hundred pounds, or maybe a ton--or
along there somewhere--but anyway it was hot weather, and by the time that a player had sent
thirty-five of them home he was in a drench of perspiration, and physically exhausted.

Next, we started cocked hat--that is to say, a triangle of three pins, the other seven being
discarded. In this game we used the three smallest balls and kept on delivering them until
we got the three pins down. After a day or two of practice we were able to get the chief pin
with an output of four balls, but it cost us a great many deliveries to get the other two;
but by and by we succeeded in perfecting our art--at least we perfected it to our limit. We
reached a scientific excellence where we could get the three pins down with twelve deliveries
of the three small balls, making thirty-six shots to conquer the cocked hat.

Having reached our limit for daylight work, we set up a couple of candles and played at night.
As the alley was fifty or sixty feet long, we couldn't see the pins, but the candles indicated
their locality. We continued this game until we were able to knock down the invisible pins
with thirty-six shots. Having now reached the limit of the candle game, we changed and played
it left-handed. We continued the left-handed game until we conquered its limit, which was fifty-four
shots. Sometimes we sent down a succession of fifteen balls without getting anything at all.
We easily got out of that old alley five times the fun that anybody could have gotten out of
the best alley in New York.

One blazing hot day, a modest and courteous officer of the regular army appeared in our den
and introduced himself. He was about thirty-five years old, well built and militarily erect
and straight, and he was hermetically sealed up in the uniform of that ignorant old day--a
uniform made of heavy material, and much properer for January than July. When he saw the venerable
alley, and glanced from that to the long procession of shining balls in the trough, his eye
lit with desire, and we judged that he was our meat. It was nice to lie with outstretched limbs to How can an
emperor and the dark green needle work to look. Time to improvise, so as if there were no
people. If he were emperor, how nice it would be in the world! Only school three times a week
would be held and then he would Stolberg Wilhelm, who always during the arithmetic lesson tickled
in the neck that can thrash of his bodyguards. But in the middle of the beautiful thoughts again
the concern was to return home. He felt like a Pressure on the heart, yes, he was very uneasy,
but it bound him with chains such as in this soft, cool forest soil. The mother thought he was
at home or at Aunt Fritz Hammer Lina, and he lay there, far from the city and it was so good!
He now had the feeling that He had jumped up and walk home, but in fact it had fallen to the
lids and he slept.

He dreamed that he was a horse and horseshoe nailed to him on his feet. But see, he felt no pain and
he was even proud of this new shiny jewelry.

Then he dreamed that he had died. He was placed in a coffin and was buried. But when he was down
there in the grave, he found that he was not quite dead, and he woke up again on. He crawled out
of the hole and, dressed in a large white funeral pall was He is on the way home. The city was still
early in the morning and was very, very bleak.

Since met him at the station house Hammers Fritz.

"I was thinking, 'you're dead," said the.

"I was already dead," said Peter, "but now I'm awake again."

                                 

"Now go home, surely?"

Peter nodded.
"What is there to say, then your father, if now come again? The curse
is! "

At the memorial fountain was Peter, thinking. And he got such
a fear of what tell the father that he would quickly reversed and
put into the grave.

III.

When he awoke it was night. Great fear
seized him, and the cool air penetrated to him on the skin. The crying
was near him when he looked so alone, in the woods, God knows at what
Hour of the night. Now, if robbers or murderers would, or goblins
or giant ... Hastily He went forward, trembling all over.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DCXXV.

DECEMBER, 1907.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--XXV.

BY MARK TWAIN.

[Dictated October 3, 1907.] In some ways, I was always honest; even from my earliest years
I could never bring myself to use money which I had acquired in questionable ways; many a time
I tried, but principle was always stronger than desire. Six or eight months ago, Lieutenant-General
Nelson A. Miles was given a great dinner-party in New York, and when he and I were chatting
together in the drawing-room before going out to dinner he said,

"I've known you as much as thirty years, isn't it?"

I said, "Yes, that's about it, I think."

He mused a moment or two and then said,

"I wonder we didn't meet in Washington in 1867; you were there at that time, weren't you?"

I said, "Yes, but there was a difference; I was not known then; I had not begun to bud--I was
an obscurity; but you had been adding to your fine Civil War record; you had just come back
from your brilliant Indian campaign in the Far West, and had been rewarded with a brigadier-generalship
in the regular army, and everybody was talking about you and praising you. If you had met me,
you wouldn't be able to remember it now--unless some unusual circumstance of the meeting had
burnt it into your memory. It is forty years ago, and people don't remember nobodies over a
stretch of time like that."

I didn't wish to continue the conversation along that line, so I changed the subject. I could
have proven to him, without any trouble, that we did meet in Washington in 1867, but I thought
it might embarrass one or the other of us, so I didn't do it. I remember the incident very
well. This was the way of it:

I had just come back from the Quaker City Excursion, and had made a contract with Bliss of
Hartford to write "The Innocents Abroad." I was out of money, and I went down to Washington
to see if I could earn enough there to keep me in bread and butter while I should write the
book. I came across William Clinton, brother of the astronomer, and together we invented a
scheme for our mutual sustenance; we became the fathers and originators of what is a common
feature in the newspaper world now--the syndicate. We became the old original first Newspaper
Syndicate on the planet; it was on a small scale, but that is usual with untried new enterprises.
We had twelve journals on our list; they were all weeklies, all obscure and poor, and all scattered
far away among the back settlements. It was a proud thing for those little newspapers to have
a Washington correspondence, and a fortunate thing for us that they felt in that way about
it. Each of the twelve took two letters a week from us, at a dollar per letter; each of us
wrote one letter per week and sent off six duplicates of it to these benefactors, thus acquiring
twenty-four dollars a week to live on--which was all we needed, in our cheap and humble quarters.

Clinton was one of the dearest and loveliest human beings I have ever known, and we led a charmed
existence together, in a contentment which knew no bounds. Clinton was refined by nature and
breeding; he was a gentleman by nature and breeding; he was highly educated; he was of a beautiful
spirit; he was pure in heart and speech. He was a Scotchman, and a Presbyterian; a Presbyterian
of the old and genuine school, being honest and sincere in his religion, and loving it, and
finding serenity and peace in it. He hadn't a vice--unless a large and grateful sympathy with
Scotch whiskey may be called by that name. I didn't regard it as a vice, because he was a Scotchman,
and Scotch whiskey to a Scotchman is as innocent as milk is to the rest of the human race.
In Clinton's case it was a virtue, and not an economical one. Twenty-four dollars a week would
really have been riches to us if we hadn't had to support that jug; because of the jug we were
always sailing pretty close to the wind, and any tardiness in the arrival of any part of our
income was sure to cause us some inconvenience.

I remember a time when a shortage occurred; we had to have three dollars, and we had to have
it before the close of the day. I don't know now how we happened to want all that money at
one time; I only know we had to have it. Clinton told me to go out and find it--and he said
he would also go out and see what he could do. He didn't seem to have any doubt that we would
succeed, but I knew that that was his religion working in him; I hadn't the same confidence;
I hadn't any idea where to turn to raise all that bullion, and I said so. I think he was ashamed
of me, privately, because of my weak faith. He told me to give myself no uneasiness, no concern;
and said in a simple, confident, and unquestioning way, "the Lord will provide." I saw that
he fully believed the Lord would provide, but it seemed to me that if he had had my experience--

But never mind that; before he was done with me his strong faith had had its influence, and
I went forth from the place almost convinced that the Lord really would provide.

I wandered around the streets for an hour, trying to think up some way to get that money, but
nothing suggested itself. At last I lounged into the big lobby of the Ebbitt House, which was
then a new hotel, and sat down. Presently a dog came loafing along. He paused, glanced up at
me and said, with his eyes, "Are you friendly?" I answered, with my eyes, that I was. He gave
his tail a grateful little wag and came forward and rested his jaw on my knee and lifted his
brown eyes to my face in a winningly affectionate way. He was a lovely creature--as beautiful
as a girl, and he was made all of silk and velvet. I stroked his smooth brown head and fondled
his drooping ears, and we were a pair of lovers right away. Pretty soon Brigadier-General Miles,
the hero of the land, came strolling by in his blue and gold splendors, with everybody's admiring
gaze upon him. He saw the dog and stopped, and there was a light in his eye which showed that
he had a warm place in his heart for dogs like this gracious creature; then he came forward
and patted the dog and said,

"He is very fine--he is a wonder; would you sell him?"

I was greatly moved; it seemed a marvellous thing to me, the way Clinton's prediction had come
true. I said,

"Yes."

The General said,

"What do you ask for him?"

"Three dollars."

The General was manifestly surprised. Soon joined the tribes closer together and stopped
making any sound. It seemed as if the trees would be higher and the twilight spread like a veil. Tired
Peter crept forward. Fibers, which spanned from tribe to tribe, to lay down his cheeks, and
the undergrowth was spreading like a little wild and difficult to walk. Exhausted, put the boy
under some Tannen down to rest. How delicate and proud to bring the strong trees! How soft was
this storage of dry needles, was how sweet and how tranquil the air and full of spring dreams
was! How hard and how the thoughts were secretly the same time! How far was the world, as away
the teacher with his school work and the stupid boys with all their banter!


His face was sad, before, and troubled; but it lit up gladly now, and he answered,

"Yes--have you seen him?"

"Yes," I said, "he was here a minute ago, and I saw him follow a gentleman away. I think I
could find him for you if you would like me to try."

I have seldom seen a person look so grateful--and there was gratitude in his voice, too, when
he conceded that he would like me to try. I said I would do it with great pleasure, but that
as it might take a little time I hoped he would not mind paying me something for my trouble.
He said he would do it most gladly--repeating that phrase "most gladly"--and asked me how much.
I said--

"Three dollars."

He looked surprised, and said,

"Dear me, it is nothing! I will pay you ten, quite willingly."

But I said,

"No, three is the price"--and I started for the stairs without waiting for any further argument,
for Clinton had said that that was the amount that the Lord would provide, and it seemed to
me that it would be sacrilegious to take a penny more than was promised.

I got the number of the General's room from the office-clerk, as I passed by his wicket, and
when I reached the room I found the General there caressing his dog, and quite happy. I said,

"I am sorry, but I have to take the dog again."

He seemed very much surprised, and said,

"Take him again? Why, he is my dog; you sold him to me, and at your own price."

"Yes," I said, "it is true--but I have to have him, because the man wants him again."

"What man?"

"The man that owns him; he wasn't my dog."

The General looked even more surprised than before, and for a moment he couldn't seem to find
his voice; then he said,

"Do you mean to tell me that you were selling another man's dog--and knew it?"

"Yes, I knew it wasn't my dog."

"Then why did you sell him?"

I said,

"Well, that is a curious question to ask. I sold him because you wanted him. You offered to
buy the dog; you can't deny that I was not anxious to sell him--I had not even thought of selling
him, but it seemed to me that if it could be any accommodation to you--" 

Peter was about to rise again soon, but it weighed on his limbs like lead. He said himself: I
must go home, I wish be late for dinner. But he had not even have the strength to lift his head.


I broke him off there, and said,

"There is no relevancy about this kind of argument; you said yourself that the dog was probably
worth a hundred dollars, I only asked you three; was there anything unfair about that? You
offered to pay more, you know you did. I only asked you three; you can't deny it."

"Oh, what in the world has that to do with it! The crux of the matter is that you didn't own
the dog--can't you see that? You seem to think that there is no impropriety in selling property
that isn't yours provided you sell it cheap. Now, then--"

I said,

"Please don't argue about it any more. You can't get around the fact that the price was perfectly
fair, perfectly reasonable--considering that I didn't own the dog--and so arguing about it
is only a waste of words. I have to have him back again because the man wants him; don't you
see that I haven't any choice in the matter? Put yourself in my place. Suppose you had sold
a dog that didn't belong to you; suppose you--" The harvest was 1887: 6 million hl rye, 7-8 million St.
oats, 3.6 million hl potatoes, other cereals in much smaller quantities. The livestock throughout
the province will run very weak in recent times by the bee proliferation.


I went away then with a good conscience, because I had acted honorably; I never could have
used the three that I sold the dog for, because it was not rightly my own, but the three I
got for restoring him to his rightful owner was righteously and properly mine, because I had
earned it. That man might never have gotten that dog back at all, if it hadn't been for me.
My principles have remained to this day what they were then. I was always honest; I know I
can never be otherwise. It is as I said in the beginning--I was never able to persuade myself
to use money which I had acquired in questionable ways.

Now, then, that is the tale. Some of it is true.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.