 He ridiculed
him on all occasions; and at last declared in public company, that there was no glory in cuckolding
Shrewsbury, who had not spirit to resent the injury. This was an insult which could not be
overlooked. The earl sent him a challenge; and they agreed to fight, at Barns-Elms, in presence
of two gentlemen, whom they chose for their seconds. All the four engaged at the same time;
the first thrust was fatal to the earl of Shrewsbury; and his friend killed the duke's second
at the same instant. Buckingham, elated with his exploit, set out immediately for the earl's
seat at Cliefden, where he lay with his wife, after having boasted of the murder of her husband,
whose blood he shewed her upon his sword, as a trophy of his prowess. But this very duke of
Buckingham was little better than a poltroon at bottom. When the gallant earl of Ossory challenged
him to fight in Chelsea fields, he crossed the water to Battersea, where he pretended to wait
for his lordship; and then complained to the house of lords, that Ossory had given him the
rendezvous, and did not keep his appointment. He knew the house would interpose in the quarrel,
and he was not disappointed. Their lordships obliged them both to give their word of honour,
that their quarrel should have no other consequences.

I ought to make an apology for having troubled a lady with so many observations on a subject
so unsuitable to the softness of the fair sex; but I know you cannot be indifferent to any
thing that so nearly affects the interests of humanity, which I can safely aver have alone
suggested every thing which has been said by, Madam, Your very humble servant.

LETTER XVI

NICE, May 2, 1764.

DEAR DOCTOR,--A few days ago, I rode out with two gentlemen of this country, to see a stream
of water which was formerly conveyed in an aqueduct to the antient city of Cemenelion, from
whence this place is distant about a mile, though separated by abrupt rocks and deep hollows,
which last are here honoured with the name of vallies. The water, which is exquisitely cool,
and light and pure, gushes from the middle of a rock by a hole which leads to a subterranean
aqueduct carried through the middle of the mountain. This is a Roman work, and the more I considered
it, appeared the more stupendous. A peasant who lives upon the spot told us, he had entered
by this hole at eight in the morning, and advanced so far, that it was four in the afternoon
before he came out. He said he walked in the water, through a regular canal formed of a hard
stone, lined with a kind of cement, and vaulted overhead; but so high in most parts he could
stand upright, yet in others, the bed of the canal was so filled with earth and stones, that
he was obliged to stoop in passing. He said that there were air-holes at certain distances
(and indeed I saw one of these not far from the present issue) that there were some openings
and stone seats on the sides, and here and there figures of men formed of stone, with hammers
and working tools in their hands. I am apt to believe the fellow romanced a little, in order
to render his adventure the more marvellous: but I am certainly informed, that several persons
have entered this passage, and proceeded a considerable way by the light of torches, without
arriving at the source, which (if we may believe the tradition of the country) is at the distance
of eight leagues from this opening; but this is altogether incredible. The stream is now called
la fontaine de muraille, and is carefully conducted by different branches into the adjacent
vineyards and gardens, for watering the ground. On the side of the same mountain, more southerly,
at the distance of half a mile, there is another still more copious discharge of the same kind
of water, called la source du temple.