The youngest officers formed a circle around the curate's niece, who sang to them the songs
of the country.  The good curate, in the midst of continual comings and goings, and the efforts
he made to play worthily his role of master of the mansion, found himself attacked on his own
territory, that is to say, on his breviary, by Marshal Lefebvre, who had studied in his youth
to be a priest, and said that he had preserved nothing from his first vocation except the shaven
head, because it was so easy to comb.  The worthy marshal intermingled his Latin quotations
with those military expressions he so freely used, causing those present to indulge in bursts
of laughter, in which even the curate himself joined, and said, "Monseigneur, if you had continued
your studies for the priesthood you would have become a cardinal at least."--"Very likely,"
observed one of the officers; "and if the Abbe Maury had been a sergeant- major in '89, he
might to-day be marshal of France."--"Or dead," added the Duke of Dantzic, using a much more
energetic expression; "and so much the better for him, since in that case he would not see
the Cossacks twenty leagues from Paris."--"Oh, bah! Monseigneur, we will drive them away,"
said the same officer.  "Yes," the marshal muttered between his clinched teeth; "we shall see
what we shall see."

At this moment the mule arrived bearing the sutler's supplies, which had been long and impatiently
expected.  There was no table; but one was made of a door placed on casks, and seats were improvised
with planks.  The chief officers seated themselves, and the others ate standing.  The curate
took his place at this military table on which he had himself placed his best bottles of wine,
and with his native bonhomie continued to entertain the guests.  At length the conversation
turned on Herbisse and its surroundings, and the host was overcome with astonishment on finding
that his guests knew the country so thoroughly.

"Ah, I have it!" exclaimed he, considering them attentively one after the other; "you are Champenois!"
And in order to complete his surprise these gentlemen drew from their pockets plans on which
they made him read the names of the very smallest localities.  Then his astonishment only changed
its object, for he had never dreamed that military science required such exact study.  "What
labor!" replied the good curate, "what pains! and all this in order the better to shoot cannon-balls
at each other!  "The supper over, the next thought was the arrangements for sleeping; and for
this purpose we found in the neighboring barns a shelter and some straw.  There remained outside,
and near the door of the room occupied by the Emperor, only the officers on duty, Roustan and
myself, each of whom had a bundle of straw for his bed.  Our worthy host, having given up his
bed to his Majesty, remained with us, and rested like us from the fatigues of the day, and
was still sleeping soundly when the staff left the manse; for the Emperor arose, and set off
at break of day. The curate when he awoke expressed the deepest chagrin that he had not been
able to make his adieux to his Majesty.  A purse was handed him containing the sum the Emperor
was accustomed to leave private individuals of limited means at whose residences he halted
as indemnity for their expense and trouble; and we resumed our march in the steps of the Emperor,
who hastened to meet the Prussians.

The Emperor wished to reach Soissons before the allies; but although they had been obliged
to traverse roads which were practically impassable, they had arrived before our troops, and
as he entered La Ferte his Majesty saw them retiring to Soissons.  The Emperor was rejoiced
at this sight.  Soissons was defended by a formidable garrison, and could delay the enemy,
while Marshals Marmont and Mortier and his Majesty in person attacked Blucher in the rear and
on both flanks, and would have inclosed him as in a net.  But this time again the enemy escaped
from the snare the Emperor had laid for him at the very moment he thought he had seized him,
for Blucher had hardly presented himself in front of Soissons before the gates were opened.
General Moreau, commandant of the place, had already surrendered the town to Billow, and thus
assured to the allies the passage of the Aisne.  On receiving this depressing news the Emperor
exclaimed, "The name of Moreau has always been fatal to me!"

Meanwhile his Majesty, continuing his pursuit of the Prussians, was occupied in delaying the
passage of the Aisne.  On the 5th of March he sent General Nansouty in advance, who with his
cavalry took the bridge, drove the enemy back as far as Corbeny, and made a Russian colonel
prisoner.  After passing the night at Bery-au-Bac, the Emperor was marching towards Laon when
it was announced to him that the enemy was coming to meet us; these were not Prussians, but
an army corps of Russians commanded by Sacken.  On advancing farther, we found the Russians
established on the heights of Craonne, and covering the road to Laon in what appeared to be
an impregnable position; but nevertheless the advance guard of our army, commanded by Marshal
Ney, rushed forward and succeeded in taking Craonne.  That was enough glory for this time,
and both sides then passed the night preparing for the battle of next day. The Emperor spent
it at the village of Corbeny, but without sleeping, as inhabitants of the neighboring villages
arrived at all hours to give information as to the position of the enemy and the geography
of the country.  His Majesty questioned them himself, praised them or recompensed their zeal,
and profited by their information and services. Thus, having recognized in the mayor of one
of the communes in the suburbs of Craonne one of his former comrades in the regiment of La
Fere, he placed him in the number of his aides-de-camp, and arranged that he should serve as
guide through this country, which no one knew better than he.  M. de Bussy (that was the officer's
name) had left France during the reign of terror, and on his return had not re-entered the
army, but lived in retirement on his estates.

The Emperor met again this same night one of his old companions in arms in the regiment of
La Fere, an Alsatian named Wolff, who had been a sergeant of artillery in the regiment in which
the Emperor and M. de Bussy had been his superior officers.  He came from Strasburg, and testified
to the good disposition of the inhabitants through the whole extent of the country he had traversed.
The dismay caused in the allied armies by the first attacks of the Emperor made itself felt
even to the frontiers; and on each road the peasants rose, armed themselves, and cut off the
retreat, and killed many, of the enemy.  Corps of the Emperor's adherents were formed in the
Vosges, with officers of well-proved bravery at their head, who were accustomed to this species
of warfare.  The garrisons of the cities and fortified places of the east were full of courage
and resolution; and it would have well suited the wishes of the population of this part of
the Empire had France become, according to the wish expressed by the Emperor, the tomb of the
foreign armies.  The brave Wolff, after having given this information to the Emperor, repeated
it before many other persons, myself among the number.  He took only a few hours' repose, and
set out again immediately; but the Emperor did not dismiss him until he had been decorated
with the cross of honor, as the reward of his devotion.

The battle of Craonne commenced, or I should say recommenced, on the 7th at break of day, the
infantry commanded by the Prince of Moskwa-- [Marshall Ney] and the Duke of Belluno,  who was
wounded on this day. Generals Grouchy and Nansouty, the first commanding the cavalry of the
army, the second at the head of the cavalry of the guard, also received severe wounds.  The
difficulty was not so much to take the heights, as to hold them when taken.  Meanwhile the
French artillery, directed by the modest and skillful General Drouot, forced the enemy's artillery
to yield their ground foot by foot.  This was a terribly bloody struggle; for the sides of
the heights were too steep to allow of attacking the Russians on the flank, and the retreat
was consequently slow and murderous.  They fell back at length, however, and abandoned the
field of battle to our troops, who pursued them as far as the inn of the Guardian Angel, situated
on the highroad from Soissons to Laon, when they wheeled about, and held their position in
this spot for several hours.

The Emperor, who in this battle as in every other of this campaign, had exposed his person
and incurred as many dangers as the most daring soldiers, now transferred his headquarters
to the village of Bray.  As soon as he entered the room which served as his cabinet, he had
me summoned, and I pulled off his boots, while he leaned on my shoulder without uttering a
word, threw his hat and sword on the table, and threw himself on his bed, uttering a deep sigh,
or rather one of those exclamations which we cannot tell whether they arise from discouragement
or simply from fatigue.  His Majesty's countenance was sad and careworn, nevertheless he slept
from sheer weariness for many hours.  I awoke him to announce the arrival of M. de Rumigny,
who was the bearer of dispatches from Chatillon.  In the condition of the Emperor's mind at
this moment he seemed ready to accept any reasonable conditions which might be offered him;
therefore I admit I hoped (in which many joined me) that we were approaching the moment when
we should obtain the peace which we so ardently desired.  The Emperor received M. de Rumigny
without witnesses, and the interview lasted a long while.  Nothing transpired of what had been
said, and it occurred to me that this mystery argued nothing good.  The next day early M. de
Rumigny returned to Chatillon, where the Duke of Vicenza awaited him; and from the few words
his Majesty uttered as he mounted his horse to return to his advance posts, it was easy to
see that he had not yet resigned himself to the idea of making a peace which he regarded as
dishonorable.

While the Duke of Vicenza was at Chatillon or Lusigny for the purpose of treating for a peace,
the orders of the Emperor delayed or hastened the conclusion of the treaty according to his
successes or repulses.  On the appearance of a ray of hope he demanded more than they were
willing to grant, imitating in this respect the example which the allied sovereigns had set
him, whose requirements since the armistice of Dresden increased in proportion as they advanced
towards France.  At last everything was finally broken off, and the Duke of Vicenza rejoined
his Majesty at Saint-Dizier.  I was in a small room so near his sleeping-room that I could
not avoid hearing their conversation.  The Duke of Vicenza earnestly besought the Emperor to
accede to the proposed conditions, saying that they were reasonable now, but later would no
longer be so. As the Duke of Vicenza still returned to the charge, arguing against the Emperor's
postponing his positive decision, his Majesty burst out vehemently, "You are a Russian, Caulaincourt!"--"No,
Sire," replied the duke with spirit, "no; I am a Frenchman!  I think that I have proved this
by urging your Majesty to make peace."

The discussion thus continued with much warmth in terms which unfortunately I cannot recall.
But I remember well that every time the Duke of Vicenza insisted and endeavored to make his
Majesty appreciate the reasons on account of which peace had become indispensable, the Emperor
replied, "If I gain a battle, as I am sure of doing, I will be in a situation to exact the
most favorable conditions.  The grave of the Russians is under the walls of Paris!  My measures
are all taken, and victory cannot fail."

After this conversation, which lasted more than an hour, and in which the Duke of Vicenza was
entirely unsuccessful, he left his Majesty's room, and rapidly crossed the saloon where I was;
and I remarked as he passed that his countenance showed marks of agitation, and that, overcome
by his deep emotion, great tears rolled from his eyes.  Doubtless he was deeply wounded by
what the Emperor had said to him of his partiality for Russia; and whatever may have been the
cause, from that day I never saw the Duke of Vicenza except at Fontainebleau.

The Emperor, meanwhile, marched with the advance guard, and wished to reach Laon on the evening
of the 8th; but in order to gain this town it was necessary to pass on a narrow causeway through
marshy land.  The enemy was in possession of this road, and opposed our passage.  After a few
cannon-shots were exchanged his Majesty deferred till next day the attempt to force a passage,
and returned, not to sleep (for at this critical time he rarely slept), but to pass the night
in the village of Chavignon.

In the middle of this night General Flahaut

     [Count Auguste Charles Joseph Flahaut de la Billarderie, born in
     Paris, 1785; colonel in 1809; aide-de-camp to the Emperor, 1812; and
     made a general of division for conduct at Leipzig; was at Waterloo.
     Ambassador to Vienna, 1841-1848, and senator, 1853; died 1870.  He
     was one of the lovers of Queen Hortense, and father by her of the
     late Duc de Morny.--TRANS.]

came to announce to the Emperor that the commissioners of the allied powers had broken the
conferences at Lusigny.  The army was not informed of this, although the news would probably
have surprised no one.  Before daylight General Gourgaud set out at the head of a detachment
selected from the bravest soldiers of the army, and following a cross road which turned to
the left through the marshes, fell unexpectedly on the enemy, slew many of them in the darkness,
and drew the attention and efforts of the allied generals upon himself, while Marshal Ney,
still at the head of the advance guard, profited by this bold maneuver to force a passage of
the causeway.  The whole army hastened to follow this movement, and on the evening of the 9th
was in sight of Laon, and ranged in line of battle before the enemy who occupied the town and
its heights.  The army corps of the Duke of Ragusa had arrived by another road, and also formed
in line of battle before the Russian and Prussian armies.  His Majesty passed the night expediting
his orders, and preparing everything for the grand attack which was to take place next morning
at daylight.

The appointed hour having arrived, I had just finished in haste the toilet of the Emperor,
which was very short, and he had already put his foot in the stirrup, when we saw running towards
us on foot, with the utmost speed and all out of breath, some cavalrymen belonging to the army
corps of the Duke of Ragusa.  His Majesty had them brought before him, and inquired angrily
the meaning of this disorder.  They replied that their bivouacs had been attacked unexpectedly
by the enemy; that they and their comrades had resisted to the utmost these overwhelming forces,
although they had barely time to seize their arms; that they had at last been compelled to
yield to numbers, and it was only by a miracle they had escaped the massacre.  "Yes," said
the Emperor knitting his brow, "by a miracle of agility, as we have just seen.  What has become
of the marshal?"  One of the soldiers replied that he saw the Duke of Ragusa fall dead, another
that he had been taken prisoner.  His Majesty sent his aide-de-camp and orderly officers to
ascertain, and found that the report of the cavalrymen was only too true.  The enemy had not
waited to be attacked, but had fallen on the army corps of the Duke of Ragusa, surrounded it,
and taken a part of his artillery.  The marshal, however, had been neither wounded nor taken
prisoner, but was on the road to Rheims, endeavoring to arrest and bring back the remains of
his army corps.

The news of this disaster greatly increased his Majesty's chagrin; but nevertheless the enemy
was driven back to the gates of Laon, though the recapture of the city was impossible.  After
a few fruitless attempts, or rather after some false attacks, the object of which was to conceal
his retreat from the enemy, the Emperor returned to Chavignon and passed the night.  The next
day, the 11th, we left this village, and the army fell back to Soissons.  His Majesty alighted
at the bishopric, and immediately commanded Marshal Mortier, together with the principal officials
of the place, to take measures to put the town in a state of defense.  For two days the Emperor
shut himself up at work in his cabinet, and left it only to examine the locality, visit the
fortifications, and everywhere give orders and see that they were executed.  In the midst of
these preparations for defense, his Majesty learned that the town of Rheims had been taken
by the Russian general, Saint-Priest,  notwithstanding the vigorous resistance of General Corbineau,
of whose fate we were ignorant, but it was believed that he was dead or had fallen into the
hands of the Russians.  His Majesty confided the defense of Soissons to the Marshal Duke of
Treviso, and himself set out for Rheims by forced marches; and we arrived the same evening
at the gates of the city, where the Russians were not expecting his Majesty.  Our soldiers
entered this battle without having taken any repose, but fought with the resolution which the
presence and example of the Emperor never failed to inspire. The combat lasted the whole evening,
and was prolonged far into the night; but after General Saint-Priest had been grievously wounded
the resistance of his troops became less vigorous, and at two o'clock in the morning they abandoned
the town.  The Emperor and his army entered by one gate while the Russians were emerging from
the other; and as the inhabitants pressed in crowds around his Majesty, he inquired before
alighting from his horse what havoc the enemy was supposed to have made. It was answered that
the town had suffered only the amount of injury which was the inevitable result of a bloody
nocturnal struggle, and that moreover the enemy had maintained severe discipline among the
troops during their stay and up to the moment of retreat.  Among those who pressed around his
Majesty at this moment was the brave General Corbineau.  He wore a citizen's coat, and had
remained disguised and concealed in a private house of the town.  On the morning of the next
day he again presented himself before the Emperor, who welcomed him cordially, and complimented
him on the courage he had displayed under such trying circumstances.  The Duke of Ragusa had
rejoined his Majesty under the walls of Rheims, and had contributed with his army corps to
the capture of the town.  When he appeared before the Emperor, the latter burst out in harsh
and severe reproaches regarding the affair at Laon; but his anger was not of long duration,
and his Majesty soon resumed towards the marshal the tone of friendship with which he habitually
honored him.  They held a long conference, and the Duke of Ragusa remained to dine with the
Emperor.

