'Why, Tom!' I said, 'back already? how early you have come home!'

'Back, Jack?' he said, laughing; 'why, I've never been.'

'Do you mean you haven't been to Scarborough?'

'No, of course not; you didn't think I would go without you, old boy. We'll go to-morrow, of
course. I thought we settled that last night.'

'Why, I've been thinking of you in Scarborough all day!' I said.

'Then your thoughts have gone in a wrong direction for once, Jack,' he replied, 'for I've been
here all the time.'

'I'll walk with you up the hill,' I said; 'it isn't quite dinner-time.'

I was very pleased to see him, and to find that he did not appear to be vexed with me. We chatted
for some time, and then he said casually, 'He does not speak badly, that lay preacher of yours,
Jack.'

I stood still in astonishment. 'Who?' I said, 'Mr. Christie? Why, you surely were not at the
service, Tom! Oh, I know,' I cried, before he could answer, 'you were behind the bank; I saw
a black and white cap, and I thought how much it was like yours.'

'It could not be much more like, seeing that it was the very same,' said Tom.

'I'm so glad you heard him,' I ventured to say.

He made no answer, so I thought it was better to say no more; but when we reached the top of
the hill, and he was just leaving me, he said:

'Jack, I'm afraid I was a bit crusty last night. You must not think any more of it, old fellow.
We'll have a jolly day at Scarborough to-morrow. And, Jack,' he went on, 'I was very much annoyed
at the time, I own I was; but I'm not sure after all that you're not right.'

He said no more, but hurried away, and it was many years before he referred to the subject
again; but the day came when he did mention it, and when he told me, with tears in his eyes,
that he looked upon that Sunday at Runswick as the first link in the chain of God's loving
Providence, by means of which He had led him to Himself. He told me then that he had never
forgotten my firm refusal to go with him, and he had never forgotten the sermon to which he
had listened hidden from sight by the bank.

Our day at Scarborough exceeded all our anticipations. The weather was glorious, and Tom was
in excellent spirits, and we thoroughly enjoyed everything.

I could not help feeling sorry when Thursday came, which was to be my last day at Runswick
Bay. It had been such a happy and so eventful a time. I seemed to have passed through so much,
and to have learnt so much unknown to me before, that I felt very reluctant to bring my holiday
to a close. As for Duncan and Polly, they were quite melancholy as the time for my departure
drew near.

'We shall feel lost without you, sir,' said Duncan. 'We shan't know what to do'; and there
were tears in Polly's eyes as she said mournfully, when she set the herrings on the table for
my supper, 'Them's the last herrings I shall fry you, sir, and I feel as if there was going
to be a death in the house.'

'Cheer up, Polly,' I said, 'who knows? Perhaps you may have to put up with me next time I get
a holiday, and you may be sure I shall want plenty of herrings then.'

She brightened a little at this, and little John, who was quite well now, and who had become
very friendly with me since his illness, climbed up on my knee, and stroked my face with his
little thin hand, as if he were trying to coax me to come back to them again.

There was one thing which I had a great desire to do before leaving Runswick. I knew that Duncan
was much troubled about the Mary Ann. She had been terribly knocked about in the storm, which
was no wonder, seeing that she had drifted about, bottom upwards, and had been driven hither
and thither on the waves. When Duncan had examined her the day after his arrival, he had found
that she leaked in several places, and was altogether unseaworthy, and he had been obliged
to hire a boat until such time as the Mary Ann could be properly repaired. Then he went over
to Whitby, and brought an experienced man back with him, and he overhauled her thoroughly,
and gave it as his opinion that it would be a waste of money to try to patch her up.

When Duncan came in that night I saw that the poor fellow was terribly downcast. 'The Mary
Ann's days are numbered, sir; she'll never be able to rough it again,' he said. 'She's been
a good old boat to me and my father before me, and it will be like parting from an old friend
to give her up. Yon man, he says she might be cobbled together a bit; but you would never make
a good job of her; she'd do maybe well enough for fine weather, but you couldn't trust to her
in a storm.'

I saw Polly turn pale as he said this. 'Duncan,' she said, going up to him, and laying her
hand on his arm, 'you'll never go in her again; promise me that. Think of me and little John,
Duncan.'

'Ay, my lass,' he said; 'ay, Polly, I do think of thee and little John; but the worst of it
is there's bread must be earnt for thee and little John. I can't let thee starve, wife.'

'What about the bank-book, Duncan?' I said.

He went to the old oak-chest, and brought it out. I was much touched by his handing it to me,
and bidding me see how it stood. He was perfectly open with me, and spoke to me as freely as
if I had been an old and tried friend. I added up the amount and read it out to him.

'Well, sir,'he said, 'it's getting on; but it's a good ten pound short yet. We shall have to
hire Brown's boat a bit and do as well as we can, though it isn't a very paying business when
one takes to hiring: it will be hard enough to make two ends meet, you see, sir, let alone
saving up for the new boat. But I can't see nothing else for it, sir; that is, if Polly won't
let me risk it in the Mary Ann.'

'Duncan,' she said solemnly, 'if thee went to sea in the Mary Ann, and she went to the bottom,
I could never say, "The will of the Lord be done," for I don't believe it would be God's will
for thee to go in that rotten old thing.'

'Polly is right, Duncan,' I said; 'you must never go in the Mary Ann again.'

'Well, sir,' he said, 'I see what you mean, you and Polly too, and the Lord will show us what's
to be done.'

Nothing more was said about the Mary Ann at that time, but I had already made my own plan about
the new boat. My aunt had just left me her little property, and a very nice little property
it was. I felt myself a rich man, for in addition to money invested in various ways, about
L200 of ready money had been placed to my account at the bank.

What could be more delightful, I thought, than to spend the first ten pounds of this in helping
Duncan to complete the purchase of the new boat? The only difficulty would be to get Duncan
to accept the money, for he had all the honest independence of a Yorkshireman, and I knew would
hesitate about receiving help from any one. But, at the same time, I knew that in this instance
his need was great, and his kindly feeling towards myself was so strong, that I was not without
hope that I might be able to manage what I had contemplated without giving the dear fellow
offence. I thought, at one time, that I would take Mr. Christie into my confidence, and would
consult with him, but on second thoughts I decided that it would be wiser not to do so, and
felt that I should be more likely to succeed if no one else was in the secret. So I folded
my bank-note in paper, put it into an envelope, and wrote outside, 'With little John's love
to his daddy, to help him to buy another Little John.' This I determined to slip into the child's
hand when I said good-bye.

