There is also at present much mischievous talk about a great tax on capital for the purpose
of redeeming, or hastening the redemption of, war debt. It is clear at once that it is not
possible to tax capital if we remember that capital consists of the tools and equipment of
industry, or even, in the wider sense of the word, of accumulated assets which have not been
consumed. Unless the Government is prepared to take payment in factory chimneys, railway sleepers,
houses and fields, or the securities and mortgages that are claims on their product, it is
not possible to tax capital. The only thing that the Government can tax is the output, that
is to say, the annual income of the people. In other words, a tax on capital is simply a form
of income tax assessed, not according to a man's income, but according to the assets of which
he is possessed. The effect of such a tax would be that he who has spent everything that he
has earned on his own enjoyment would go scot free in the matter of the capital tax, and would
be rewarded for his improvidence by being asked to make no sacrifice; while his thrifty brother
who, out of a smaller income, has set aside a certain proportion during the last twenty or
thirty years, would have to hand over a portion of his current income assessed upon the value
of the assets into which he has put his savings. Incidentally, it may be remarked that it would
take years to make this necessary valuation, and that it would probably be done in a very inequitable
manner by untrained and incompetent officials. But the important point is this, that if the
Government shows a tendency to take the possession of assets as a basis for taxation it will
be directly encouraging those who spend their whole income in riotous living and frivolous
amusement, and discouraging those who help to increase mankind's output by adding to the capital
available.

Finally, it may be added that the shyness of the saver will be greatly diminished if he can
feel that there is a trustworthy machinery of company promotion, so that he can rely on any
savings that he puts into industry having at least a fair chance of yielding him a fair reward.
This subject is too vast to enter into at present, but it is one to which those who are responsible
for the management of our financial affairs cannot give too much attention. Every time the
real investor is swindled out of his money there is more than a chance that he will look upon
all forms of saving as a folly to be left to the credulous. It is easy to say that it was his
own fault, that he ought to have been more careful, or consulted a better broker; but he will,
with equal ease, retort that If honest financiers knew their business better, they would have
long ago made things easier for the ignorant investor to know whether he was putting his money
into genuine enterprise or throwing it down a sink.

Like all other divagations on the subject of what may happen in the future, this attempt to
forecast has necessarily consisted of "dim glimpses into the obvious," as the undergraduate
said of Jowett's sermon. All that we can be sure of is this: that if the great opportunities
that will lie open to mankind at the end of the war are rightly used, if we use its lessons
to increase our production, restrict our frivolous consumption, and put a larger proportion
of our larger production into stimulating production still further, there ought to be a great
increase in the amount of capital available to supply the great increase which may be expected
in the amount of capital demanded. The fact that the chief nations of the world will have enormous
debts on which to pay interest is not one that need necessarily terrify us from this point
of view. The arranging and imposition of the taxation necessary for meeting the interest on
these debts will involve very serious political and social questions; but the payment of this
interest need not necessarily diminish production, and it may probably help in checking consumption.
It will not impair the total wealth of the world as a whole; it will merely affect its distribution.
And since it will mean that a considerable part of the world's output will, for this reason,
be handed over to the holders of the various Government debts, who, ex hypothesi, will be people
who have saved money in the past, it is at least possible that they may devote a considerable
amount of the spin so received to further saving or increasing the supply of capital available.

Will the prestige of the London money market be maintained when the war is over? This is a
question of enormous importance, not only to every one who works in and about the City, but
to all who are interested in the maintenance and increase of England's wealth. Like all other
questions about what is going to happen some day, the answer to it will depend to a very great
extent on what happens between the present moment and the return of peace. To arrive at an
answer we have first to consider on what London's financial prestige has been based in the
past, and on this subject we are able to cite in evidence the opinion of an enemy. Our own
views about the reasons which gave us financial eminence may well be coloured by national and
patriotic prejudice, but when we take the opinion of a German we may be pretty sure that it
is not warped by any predisposition in favour of English character and achievement.

A little book published this year by Messrs. Macmillan and Co., entitled "England's Financial
Supremacy," contains a translation of a series of articles from the Frankfurter Zeitung, and
from this witness we are able to get some information which may be valuable, and is certainly
interesting.

The basis of England's financial supremacy is recapitulated as follows by this devil's advocate:--

"The influence of history, a mighty empire, a cosmopolitan Stock Exchange, intimate business
connections throughout the whole world, cheap money, a free gold market, steady exchanges,
an almost unlimited market for capital and an excellent credit system, an elastic system of
company legislation, a model Insurance organisation and the help of Germans, these are the
factors that have created England's financial supremacy. Perhaps we have omitted one other
factor, the errors and omissions of other nations." 

A rich distilled perfume emanates from it like the breath lost of genius; a cloud envelopes it; a honeyed
paste of candied diction encrusts it, like the poetic coat of the
auricula. But perhaps his Ode on the poetical Character is the best
of all.
New York, as a rule, Berlin on many occasions, could show more dealings than London. But there
was no denying the international character of its business. This was due to England's position
of company promoter and money lender to the world; to the way in which new capital was issued
there; to its Stock Exchange rules, so independent of legislative and Treasury interference;
to the international character of its Stock Exchange members, and to the cosmopolitan character
of its clients,"

On the subject of our Insurance business and the fair-mindedness and quickness of settlement
with which it was conducted, we can cite the same witness as follows:--

"Insurance, again, represented by the well-known organisation of Lloyds, which in form is something
between a stock exchange and a co-operative partnership, is nowhere more elastic and adaptable
than in London. It must be said, to the credit of Lloyds, that anyone asking to be insured
there was never hindered by bureaucratic restrictions, and always found his wishes met to the
furthest possible extent. The agencies of Lloyds abroad are also so arranged that both the
insured and the insurer can have their claims settled quickly and equitably.