The Hermetic Teachings are to the effect that THE ALL is Imminent in ("remaining within; inherent;
abiding within") its Universe, and in every part, particle, unit, or combination, within the
Universe. This statement is usually illustrated by the Teachers by a reference to the Principle
of Correspondence. The Teacher instructs the student to form a Mental Image of something, a
person, an idea, something having a mental form, the favorite example being that of the author
or dramatist forming an idea of his characters; or a painter or sculptor forming an image of
an ideal that he wishes to express by his art. In each case, the student will find that while
the image has its existence, and being, solely within his own mind, yet he, the student, author,
dramatist, painter, or sculptor, is, in a sense, immanent in; remaining within; or abiding
within, the mental image also. In other words, the entire virtue, life, spirit, of reality
in the mental image is derived from the "immanent mind" of the thinker. Consider this for a
moment, until the idea is grasped.

To take a modern example, let us say that Othello, Iago, Hamlet, Lear, Richard III, existed
merely in the mind of Shakespeare, at the time of their conception or creation. And yet, Shakespeare
also existed within each of these characters, giving them their vitality, spirit, and action.
Whose is the "spirit" of the characters that we know as Micawber, Oliver Twist, Uriah Heep--is
it Dickens, or have each of these characters a personal spirit, independent of their creator?
Have the Venus of Medici, the Sistine Madonna, the Apollo Belvidere, spirits and reality of
their own, or do they represent the spiritual and mental power of their creators? The Law of
Paradox explains that both propositions are true, viewed from the proper viewpoints. Micawber
is both Micawber, and yet Dickens. And, again, while Micawber may be said to be Dickens, yet
Dickens is not identical with Micawber. Man, like Micawber, may exclaim: "The Spirit of my
Creator is inherent within me-- and yet I am not HE!" How different this from the shocking
half-truth so vociferously announced by certain of the half-wise, who fill the air with their
raucous cries of: "I am God!" Imagine poor Micawber, or the sneaky Uriah Heep, crying: "I Am
Dickens"; or some of the lowly clods in one of Shakespeare's plays, eloquently announcing that:
"I Am Shakespeare!" THE ALL is in the earthworm, and yet the earth-worm is far from being THE
ALL. And still the wonder remains, that though the earth-worm exists merely as a lowly thing,
created and having its being solely within the Mind of THE ALL--yet THE ALL is immanent in
the earthworm, and in the particles that go to make up the earth-worm. Can there be any greater
mystery than this of "All in THE ALL; and THE ALL in All?"

The student will, of course, realize that the illustrations given above are necessarily imperfect
and inadequate, for they represent the creation of mental images in finite minds, while the
Universe is a creation of Infinite Mind--and the difference between the two poles separates
them. And yet it is merely a matter of degree--the same Principle is in operation--the Principle
of Correspondence manifests in each--"As above, so Below; as Below, so above."

And, in the degree that Man realizes the existence of the Indwelling Spirit immanent within
his being, so will he rise in the spiritual scale of life. This is what spiritual development
means--the recognition, realization, and manifestation of the Spirit within us. Try to remember
this last definition--that of spiritual development. It contains the Truth of True Religion.

There are many planes of Being--many sub-planes of Life--many degrees of existence in the Universe.
And all depend upon the advancement of beings in the scale, of which scale the lowest point
is the grossest matter, the highest being separated only by the thinnest division from the
SPIRIT of THE ALL. And, upward and onward along this Scale of Life, everything is moving. All
are on the Path, whose end is THE ALL. All progress is a Returning Home. All is Upward and
Onward, in spite of all seemingly contradictory appearances. Such is the message of the Illumined.

The Hermetic Teachings concerning the process of the Mental Creation of the Universe, are that
at the beginning of the Creative Cycle, THE ALL, in its aspect of Being, projects its Will
toward its aspect of "Becoming" and the process of creation begins. It is taught that the process
consists of the lowering of Vibration until a very low degree of vibratory energy is reached,
at which point the grossest possible form of Matter is manifested. This process is called the
stage of Involution, in which THE ALL becomes "involved," or "wrapped up," in its creation.
This process is believed by the Hermetists to have a Correspondence to the mental process of
an artist, writer, or inventor, who becomes so wrapped up in his mental creation as to almost
forget his own existence and who, for the time being, almost "lives in his creation," If instead
of "wrapped" we use the word "rapt," perhaps we will give a better idea of what is meant.

This Involuntary stage of Creation is sometimes called the "Outpouring" of the Divine Energy,
just as the Evolutionary state is called the "Indrawing." The extreme pole of the Creative
process is considered to be the furthest removed from THE ALL, while the beginning of the Evolutionary
stage is regarded as the beginning of the return swing of the pendulum of Rhythm--a "coming
home" idea being held in all of the Hermetic Teachings.

The Teachings are that during the "Outpouring," the vibrations become lower and lower until
finally the urge ceases, and the return swing begins. But there is this difference, that while
in the "Outpouring" the creative forces manifest compactly and as a whole, yet from the beginning
of the Evolutionary or "Indrawing" stage, there is manifested the Law of Individualization--that
is, the tendency to separate into Units of Force, so that finally that which left THE ALL as
unindividualized energy returns to its source as countless highly developed Units of Life,
having risen higher and higher in the scale by means of Physical, Mental and Spiritual Evolution.

The ancient Hermetists use the word "Meditation" in describing the process of the mental creation
of the Universe in the Mind of THE ALL, the word "Contemplation" also being frequently employed.
But the idea intended seems to be that of the employment of the Divine Attention. "Attention"
is a word derived from the Latin root, meaning "to reach out; to stretch out," and so the act
of Attention is really a mental "reaching out; extension" of mental energy, so that the underlying
idea is readily understood when we examine into the real meaning of "Attention."

The Hermetic Teachings regarding the process of Evolution are that, THE ALL, having meditated
upon the beginning of the Creation--having thus established the material foundations of the
Universe--having thought it into existence--then gradually awakens or rouses from its Meditation
and in so doing starts into manifestation the process of Evolution, on the material mental
and spiritual planes, successively and in order. Thus the upward movement begins--and all begins
to move Spiritward. Matter becomes less gross; the Units spring into being; the combinations
begin to form; Life appears and manifests in higher and higher forms; and Mind becomes more
and more in evidence--the vibrations constantly becoming higher. In short, the entire process
of Evolution, in all of its phases, begins, and proceeds according to the established "Laws
of the Indrawing" process. All of this occupies aeons upon aeons of Man's time, each aeon containing
countless millions of years, but yet the Illumined inform us that the entire creation, including
Involution and Evolution, of an Universe, is but "as the twinkle of the eye" to THE ALL.  At
the end of countless cycles of aeons of time, THE ALL withdraws its Attention--its Contemplation
and Meditation--of the Universe, for the Great Work is finished--and All is withdrawn into
THE ALL from which it emerged. But Mystery of Mysteries--the Spirit of each soul is not annihilated,
but is infinitely expanded--the Created and the Creator are merged. Such is the report of the
Illumined!

The above illustration of the "meditation," and subsequent "awakening from meditation," of
THE ALL, is of course but an attempt of the teachers to describe the Infinite process by a
finite example. And, yet: "As Below, so Above." The difference is merely in degree. And just
as THE ALL arouses itself from the meditation upon the Universe, so does Man (in time) cease
from manifesting upon the Material Plane, and withdraws himself more and more into the Indwelling
Spirit, which is indeed "The Divine Ego."

There is one more matter of which we desire to speak in this lesson, and that comes very near
to an invasion of the Metaphysical field of speculation, although our purpose is merely to
show the futility of such speculation. We allude to the question which inevitably comes to
the mind of all thinkers who have ventured to seek the Truth. The question is: "WHY does THE
ALL create Universes" The question may be asked in different forms, but the above is the gist
of the inquiry.

Men have striven hard to answer this question, but still there is no answer worthy of the name.
Some have imagined that THE ALL had something to gain by it, but this is absurd, for what could
THE ALL gain that it did not already possess? Others have sought the answer in the idea that
THE ALL "wished something to love" and others that it created for pleasure, or amusement; or
because it "was lonely" or to manifest its power;--all puerile explanations and ideas, belonging
to the childish period of thought.

Others have sought to explain the mystery by assuming that THE ALL found itself "compelled"
to create, by reason of its own "internal nature"--its "creative instinct." This idea is in
advance of the others, but its weak point lies in the idea of THE ALL being "compelled" by
anything, internal or external. If its "internal nature," or "creative instinct," compelled
it to do anything, then the "internal nature" or "creative instinct" would be the Absolute,
instead of THE ALL, and so accordingly that part of the proposition falls. And, yet, THE ALL
does create and manifest, and seems to find some kind of satisfaction in so doing. And it is
difficult to escape the conclusion that in some infinite degree it must have what would correspond
to an "inner nature," or "creative instinct," in man, with correspondingly infinite Desire
and Will. It could not act unless it Willed to Act; and it would not Will to Act, unless it
Desired to Act and it would not Desire to Act unless it obtained some Satisfaction thereby.
And all of these things would belong to an "Inner Nature," and might be postulated as existing
according to the Law of Correspondence. But, still, we prefer to think of THE ALL as acting
entirely FREE from any influence, internal as well as external. That is the problem which lies
at the root of difficulty--and the difficulty that lies at the root of the problem.

