First Lieut. James H. Bradley had been in the army eleven years, during the greater portion
of which time he had been in active service on the frontier; had participated in several Indian
campaigns, and had repeatedly distinguished himself for coolness and bravery in the face of danger.

First Lieut. William L. English was commissioned a second lieutenant in the One-hundred and
First Regiment, Illinois Volunteers, May 1, 1863. On March 5, 1864, he was promoted to a first
lieutenancy, and mustered out of the volunteer service June 7, 1865. He was appointed a second
lieutenant in the regular army June 18, 1867, and promoted to the rank of first lieutenant
October 24, 1874. His record is also that of a brave and capable officer.

Of the other officers who participated in the fight and survived its dangers, the following
facts will no doubt be of interest to the general public:

General Gibbon is now (February, 1888) in command of the Department of the Columbia, with headquarters
at Vancouver Barracks, Washington.

Captain Comba is on recruiting service at Pittsburg, Pa. He is within two files of the rank
of major, and in the usual course of events will be promoted to that grade within a year or
two. Captain Sanno is stationed at Fort McKinney, Wyoming, and Captain Williams at Fort Laramie,
Wyoming. Captain Browning died in Paris, May 1, 1882, and Captain Rawn at Lancaster, Pa., October
6, 1887.

Lieutenant Coolidge was promoted to a captaincy, vice Logan, August 9, 1877, and is now stationed
at Camp Pilot Butte, Wyoming. Lieutenant Jacobs was promoted to a captaincy in the Quartermaster's
Department, 1882, and is now stationed at Atlanta, Ga.

Lieutenant Jackson was made a captain November 14, 1885, and is now stationed at Fort Washakie,
Wyoming.

Lieutenant Woodruff was promoted to a captaincy in the Subsistence Department for gallant and
meritorious conduct in the battle of the Big Hole, and is now on duty at General Gibbon's headquarters,
March, 1878.

Second Lieutenant Van Orsdale was promoted to first lieutenant August 20, 1877, and regimental
quartermaster June 1, 1885, and is stationed at Fort Laramie, the present headquarters of the
Seventh Regiment.

Lieutenant Harden is detailed at West Point as instructor in tactics.

Lieut. Francis Woodbridge is on indefinite leave of absence at Detroit, Mich., awaiting retirement
on account of ill health.

CHAPTER VII.

A grateful country has erected on the Big Hole battle-field a fitting monument, a modest but
enduring shaft of solid granite, which marks the scene of the bloody conflict and tells in
mute but eloquent words the story of the victory won there. The base of the monument is five
feet six inches square; the pedestal is four feet six inches square by three feet seven inches
in height, and the height of the entire structure is nine feet ten inches. On the north face
of the shaft are carved the words:

ERECTED BY THE UNITED STATES.

On the East Face the Words:

    ON THIS FIELD
    17 OFFICERS AND 138 MEN
    OF THE 7TH U.S. INFANTRY,
    UNDER ITS COLONEL, BVT. MAJOR-GENERAL
    JOHN GIBBON,
    WITH 8 OTHER SOLDIERS AND 36 CITIZENS,
    SURPRISED AND FOUGHT ALL DAY
    A SUPERIOR FORCE OF NEZ PERCÉ INDIANS,
    MORE THAN ONE-THIRD OF THE COMMAND
    BEING KILLED AND WOUNDED.

On the south is inscribed:

    TO THE OFFICERS AND SOLDIERS
    OF THE ARMY,
    AND CITIZENS OF MONTANA,
    WHO FELL AT BIG HOLE,
    AUGUST 9, 1877,
    IN BATTLE WITH NEZ PERCÉ INDIANS.

And on the west side is a list of the soldiers and citizens killed in the action, which is
the same as that already quoted from General Gibbon's report.

The stone was cut in Concord, N. H., shipped to Dillon, Mont., by rail, and hauled from there
to the battle-field by ox teams. It was placed in position in September, 1883, by a detachment
of soldiers from Fort Missoula, under command of Capt. J. P. Thompson, of the Third Infantry.
It cost about $3,000, an appropriation of that amount having been made for the purpose by Congress.

General Howard followed the Nez Percés through the mountains, and learning that they had determined
to take refuge in the British Possessions he sent a courier to General Miles, at Fort Keogh,
who, taking the field at the head of six hundred men, headed off the fugitives at Bear Paw
Mountains in Northern Montana, and captured them after a desultory fight lasting through four days.

Chief Joseph's reply to General Miles' demand for surrender is a curiosity in the way of Indian
rhetoric. It is in these words:

"Tell General Howard I know his heart. What he told me before I have in my heart. I am tired
of fighting. Our chiefs are killed. Looking Glass is dead.

As stated in Joseph's message, while the negotiations for the surrender were in progress, White
Bird, with a few of his followers, escaped through Miles' lines and fled to the north. They
were not pursued, and succeeded in time in reaching Woody Mountain, in the Northwest Territory,
where Sitting Bull and his band were encamped at the time. When the Sioux saw the Nez Percés
coming, they supposed them to be their enemies, the Black Feet, and prepared to fight them,
but White Bird halted when within a mile of the Sioux camp, sent in a runner to announce himself,
and when the Sioux learned who their visitors were, they received them with open arms.

Major Walsh, of the Northwest mounted police, happened to be in Sitting Bull's camp at the
time, and describes White Bird and his people as being the toughest looking party of Indians
he had ever seen. Their horses were mere skin and bone; some of them scarcely able to walk.
The Indians, men, women, and children, were half naked, some of them with hands and feet frozen,
and they had not a pound of food of any kind with them.

Too-hul-hul-sote and Looking Glass were both killed in the fight with Miles.

White Bird is still living near Fort MacLeod, in the Northwest Territory, with his family and
a few followers.

After the surrender, Joseph and a few of his retainers were sent to Fort Leavenworth, where
they were imprisoned until July 21, 1878, at which time they were placed in charge of the Indian
Bureau and located in the Indian Territory. In June, 1885, they were removed to the Colville
Reservation, in Washington Territory, where they now live unrestrained. Joseph is hale, hearty,
and cheerful, and has accumulated considerable wealth in the way of cattle and horses. He says
he will never again go on the war path; that he has had enough of fighting pale-face soldiers;
that their bravery is more than a match for the cunning and prowess of the red man.

And to Gibbon's command, more than to any and all others who pursued and fought Joseph and
his men, belongs the honor of having broken the proud spirits of these dusky warriors; of having
killed their best men; of having defeated them on their chosen field. To Gibbon and his brave
men, in short, belong the laurels of the Nez Percé war of 1877.

                     *      *      *      *      *

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

CRUISINGS IN THE CASCADES.

A Narrative of Travel, Exploration, Amateur Photography, Hunting, and Fishing, with special
chapters on hunting the Grizzly Bear, the Buffalo, Elk, Antelope, Rocky Mountain Goat and Deer;
also on Trouting in the Rocky Mountains; on a Montana Roundup; Life among the Cowboys, etc.
12mo. Cloth, $2.00; Half Morocco, $3.00.

HUNTING IN THE GREAT WEST.

(Rustlings in the Rockies.) Hunting and Fishing Sketches by Mountain and Stream. 12mo. Cloth.
Over 300 pages. Illustrated. Price, 75 cents. Contents: Part I. Rustlings in the Rockies. Part
II. In the Big Horn Mountains. Part III. Ten Days in Montana. Part IV. The Gulf Coast of Florida.
Part V. Miscellaneous.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Special Books for Sportsmen.

Angler's Guide Book, The, and Tourist's Gazetteer of the Fishing Waters of the United States
and Canada. Compiled and edited by WILLIAM C. HARRIS, editor, of the "American Angler." 8vo,
249 pages; cloth, $1.00.

The Rand-McNally Official Railway Guide and Handbook. Published monthly by the American Railway
Guide Co., with official corrections and revisions to date. Complete, compact and convenient.
Accompanied by Rand, McNally & Co.'s Official Railway Map of the United States, Canada and
Mexico, and an index to all important railway stations in those countries. Price, per number,
25 cents.

Where the Trout Hide. By KIT CLARKE. Illustrated. Containing also a detailed description of
a newly opened, easily accessible, and beautiful country, whose waters teem with brook trout,
black bass, and land-locked salmon. 16mo, cloth, $1.00; paper, 50 cents.

Wild Fowl Shooting. Their resorts, habits, flight, and most successful method of hunting. By
WILLIAM BRUCE LEFFINGWELL. Illustrated. Cloth, $2.50; half morocco, $3.50.

    "There is not a book which could have been written that was needed
    by sportsmen more than one on wild fowl shooting, and one could not
    have been written which would have covered the subject, in all its
    points, more thoroughly."--American Field.

Indexed Pocket Maps of every State and Territory in the Union, and of each of the Canadian
Provinces, showing in detail the entire railroad system, and locating every station and post
office. Each, 25 cents.

Send for complete list of maps and guides.

RAND, MCNALLY & CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO AND NEW YORK.

                     *      *      *      *      *

GUIDE BOOKS.

BAEDEKER'S GUIDES.

The Eastern Alps, including the Bavarian Highlands, the Tyrol, Salzkammergut, Styria, Carinthia,
Carniola, and Istria          $2.50

England, Wales, and Scotland, as far as Loch Maree and the Cromarty Firth                 
3.75

London and Its Environs, Including Excursions to Brighton, the Isle of Wight, etc         
2.50

The Rhine, from Rotterdam to Constance                           2.50

Belgium and Holland                                              2.00

Northern Germany                                                 2.50

Southern Germany and Austria, including Hungary and Transylvania 2.50

Paris and its Environs                                           2.50

Central Italy and Rome                                           2.50

Northern Italy, including Leghorn, Florence, Ravenna, the Island of Corsica, and routes through
France, Switzerland, and Austria     2.50

Southern Italy and Sicily, with Excursions to the Lipari Islands, Malta, Sardinia, Tunis, and
Corfu                                2.50

Norway and Sweden                                                3.00

Switzerland, and the adjacent portions of Italy, Savoy, and the Tyrol                     
2.75

The Travelers' Manual of Conversation, In four languages--English, French, German, and Italian
1.25

Palestine and Syria                                              7.50

Lower Egypt, with the Fayum and the Peninsula of Sinai           5.50

                     *      *      *      *      *

MISCELLANEOUS GUIDES.

Murray's Handbook for Travelers in Ireland                      $4.00

France. By the author of "Madamoiselle Mori," etc.               1.25

The Land of Greece. Described and illustrated by Chas. Henry Hanson                       
4.00

Florence. By Augustus J. C. Hare.                                1.00

Walks in Rome. By Augustus J. C. Hare                            3.50

The Maritime Provinces (Canada). Osgood                          1.50

All Round Route and Panoramic Guide (Hudson, St. Lawrence, Niagara, etc.) By C. R. Chisholm
1.50

The Thousand Islands. By F. B. Hough                             1.25

General Guide to the United States and Canada. 2 Vols. Part I.--Eastern States and Canada;
Part II.--Western and Southern States.                                                    Each.
1.25

Rand, McNally & Co.'s Guide to the Pacific Coast, California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado,
and Kansas.    Paper, .75; cloth. 1.00

A Week in Chicago. Profusely illustrated.                         .25

Pictoral Guide of Chicago. With folded map and many illustrations.                        
.25

Guide Book for Mt. Desert. By Mrs. Clara Barnes                  1.00

Rand, McNally & Co.'s Illustrated Guide to Niagara Falls.         .25

Official Guide to the Yellowstone National Park. By John Hyde.                            
Cloth, $1.00; paper .50

The Mexican Guide. By Thos. A. Janvier. Revised yearly.          2.50

Any book sent postpaid on receipt of price. Besides the above partial list we keep in stock
a large selection of Guide Books, Maps, and works of reference for tourists and travelers.
We publish pocket maps of all the American States and Territories, the Canadian Provinces,
and Foreign Countries, and can furnish maps and guides to every country and every important
city in the world.

Send for complete list to

RAND, MCNALLY & CO., MAP AND BOOK PUBLISHERS, 148 TO 154 MONROE ST., CHICAGO.

                     *      *      *      *      *

THE GLOBE LIBRARY

READ THE

A NEW SERIES OF SELECTED WRITINGS

BY THE BEST AUTHORS.    AT POPULAR PRICES.

SOLD

ON ALL TRAINS, AND BY BOOKSELLERS GENERALLY.

RAND, MCNALLY & CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO AND NEW YORK.

SEND FOR CATALOGUE.