That dinner in the meadows was very pleasant--'Quite enchanting,' Frances declared. 'Awfully
jolly,' said Cecil, who was not so choice in his vocabulary. Percy looked on it as rather a
childish entertainment, and said more than once that he wished 'they' hadn't forgotten that
he always took pepper with everything; but he never blamed either of his sisters, only this
mysterious 'they,' and made an excellent dinner, spite of the absence of the pepper-box. He
was very kind to Jessie too,--so kind that she quite forgave Cecil from henceforth for thinking
Percy's notice a very grand sort of thing; it seemed as if he almost included her in the new
respect he had begun to have for his younger brother. And then, Cecil! Cecil was so entirely
delightful on this occasion, that she wondered how, even for a moment, she could have thought
him anything but the most perfect of all possible brothers. From the noble way in which he
dispensed the tart, only leaving himself a very small piece, though she knew he liked it better
than anything, down to the good-nature with which he gave his last bit of cheese to the lame
old setter, that had limped down to see after them, everything in his behaviour was just according
to her own heart, and totally unlike the selfish greediness of what she called 'common schoolboys.'
And then, when, instead of going back to his fishing directly after dinner, he asked her to
walk with him as far as the bridge and watch the trout leap, she was the very happiest and
proudest of little sisters. If it had not been for what her father had said, she would have
lingered near him the whole afternoon; but as it was, she came away quite contentedly after
she had watched his angling for a minute or two, and really felt how nice it was that Percy
and he should have become such allies,--how much pleasanter for him than having only her for
a companion. Percy's vacation would be over before his, and then her time would come perhaps;
anyhow, she was much too sure of Cecil's love to have any excuse for jealousy in seeing him
taken up with others. He had opened his heart to her when he was in trouble, she should never
forget that. Oh! how dear this had made him to her, both 'for then and for always!'

No after-trial worth recording shadowed Cecil's boyhood; and now he is a man--just such a man
as Jessie longed to see him. He very seldom thinks of the incidents here related, but yet the
lesson he learnt in that memorable week is still bearing fruit in his life; and when any trial
comes to him, he does not say it is 'very hard,' but takes it as a new proof of the fatherly
love that watches over him, and, in dark seasons as well as bright ones, is ready to sing with
the psalmist, 'Every day will I give thanks unto Thee, and praise Thy name for ever and ever.'

       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

The original text had no table of contents. One was added as an aid to the reader.

Page 31, "emained" changed to "remained" (have remained bitterly)

Page 51, "See page 52." was added to the text to conform to remaining illustrations.

Page 52, "tel" changed to "tell" (you'll not tell)