From the day I caught the idea, that a great secret in teaching the young was to teach through
the senses, the various implements now in such general use in infant schools, were step by
step invented by me. Objects of all kinds were introduced, and oral lessons given upon them,
to teach their qualities and properties, and amongst the various visitors most frequently present
at such times, was the gentleman who has acquired fame by publishing "Lessons on Objects,"
which little work has elsewhere been highly commended by me, albeit it came forth into the
world several years after the period I now speak of. To give such lessons I found it requisite
to have the children altogether, so as better to attract their attention simultaneously. This
was first attempted by placing them at one end of the room, but it was found inconvenient;
then parallel lines were chalked across the floor, and they sat down in order on these; but
though attention was gained, the posture was unsuitable. Cords were then stretched across to
keep them in proper rank, and various experiments tried with seats, until they ended in the
construction of a permanently fixed gallery of regularly ascending seats. This implement or
structure has now come into almost universal use in infant schools, and, in fact, they are
considered incomplete without one; and also they are in much request in schools for children
of every age. To give an idea of number through the eye, I had recourse at first to buttons
strung on strings across a frame, and this led to the substitution of wooden balls on wires,
and other improvements through experience, until the arithmeticon, hereafter described, was
fully formed. It having been found a useful instrument, the credit of contriving it has been
impugned, by liking it to the Roman Abacus and Chinese Swanpan; but were those instruments
like in structure, or designed especially to teach the multiplication table? if not, they are
no more similar than "a hawk to a hand-saw." The former I have never seen, and the first time
I saw one of the Chinese instruments was some five or six years ago in the Museum at Hull.
The clapping of hands, the moving of arms, marching in order, and various other motions, all
of which are now become the especial characteristics of an infant-school, were gradually introduced
as circumstances or nature dictated, partly to obtain simultaneous action and obedience, and
partly to provide that physical exercise which beings so young perpetually require, and which
they are constantly taking when left free and unrestrained. It is not requisite to make mention
here of the swing--the play grounds--the flower borders--and various other matters which are
fully treated of in the following portions of this work, further than to add, that they are
now generally adopted in schools, and especially in some of the principal training establishments
in the British Empire. As these plans and instruments are used by a certain religious infant-school
society, which professes to have imported its system from Switzerland, where such things never
had their origin, I feel it necessary most emphatically to repeat, that they are entirely of
my own invention.

After the severe bereavement mentioned above, I still persevered in my favourite study, and
learned more from my own children than I did before, having to act in the double capacity of
father and mother. I am well aware of the loss my children sustained by the above calamity.
In the matter of training, nothing can replace a good mother,--and such indeed she eminently
was! I felt the heavy stroke more severely, and my children did also; but I consoled myself
with the reflection, that my loss was her gain, and that she had lived to witness fruits of
her unparalleled labours, to the thorough abandonment of self, and the glory of her Maker.
"Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of these little ones, ye have done it unto me." Night
and day, when I had time to think, such promises as these cheered and sustained me in doing
what I could for my own motherless children, and more and more cemented my affections on the
children of others, and, finally, enabled me to mature my plans, and gave me strength and courage
to carry them out, first in the villages and places near London, and, ultimately, single-handed
and alone, through more than a quarter of a century, in many of the chief cities, towns, and
villages of the United Kingdom. Simply to state this fact is all that is requisite here to
answer my present purpose, and to enlarge more upon it is needless, as a full detail of the
whole career is given in my "Early Discipline Illustrated; or, the Infant System Progressing
and Successful," third edition, published in 1840, and to which much more would require adding
to bring it down to the present time, if a further edition should be called for.

That prejudice should assail me, and objections be started as I came more out into the world,
was to be expected. I knew my own intentions, but the world did not, and I came in for a full
share of obloquy and persecution. This did me much good, and was a preparatory discipline,
to make me careless of the opinion of mankind in the matter, so long as I felt that I was in
the right, and had the approval of my own conscience. The more I was opposed, the more were
my energies lighted up and strengthened; opposition always sharpened my faculties, instead
of overcoming and depressing me. The whole gradually prospered from the first, under every
disadvantage and notwithstanding the strenuous efforts of the short-sighted and bigoted. These
things laid my first patrons prostrate, and the Society of great names which followed, was
soon dissolved. Every effort was made by the enemies of true training and education, to crush
the thing in the bud, and not only the thing, but also the man who developed it and worked
it out. Thank God, these inimical aims did not succeed. Though worldly patrons failed, I had
one Patron who never deserted me, but Who upheld and encouraged me from first to last, until
the end was gained. Not, however, all that was aimed at, but much of it, and the rest will
follow or I am greatly mistaken. I have in various places seen things that I earnestly contended
for, but which were rejected at the time, at length established and their value seen. Look
at the schools in existence now, bad as some of them are, and compare them with those which
existed a third of a century ago, and it will be found that they have progressed, and it may
safely be anticipated that they will still further progress, for there is much need of it.
The system pourtrayed in this book is intended to act on all the faculties of a child, especially
the highest, and to strengthen them at the time the mere animal part of his nature is weak.
The existing schools were not found fit to take our children when they left us. The dull, monotonous,
sleepy, heavy system pursued, was quite unadapted to advance such pupils. At this point of
the history much damage was done to our plans. The essence or kernel was omitted and the mere
shell retained, to make infant schools harmonise with the existing ones, instead of the contrary.
There were and are however two great exceptions to this rule. The Model Schools at Dublin under
the Government Board of Education, and the Glasgow Training Schools for Scotland. At Dublin
all is progression. The infant department is the best in Europe,--I believe the best in the
world. The other departments are equally good in most things, and are well managed, as far
as regards a good secular education being given, and better I think than any similar institution
in England. At Glasgow the same master whom I taught still exists. I have not seen the schools
for many years, but I hear from those who have been trained there, that nothing can work better.
The Glasgow Committee, with Mr. Stow at their head, deserve the thanks of the whole community
for having applied the principles on which the Infant School System is based, to juveniles,
and carried out and proved the practicability of it for the public good. I told them this in
lectures at Glasgow long ago, and exhibited before them children to prove the truths I promulgated,
both there and in other parts of Scotland, to convince a doubting and cautious public that
my views were practicable. I may add, in passing, that I found the Scotch took nothing on trust.
They would listen to my lectures, but it always ended in my being obliged to prove it with
children. To David Stow much credit is due, for having written useful books and performed useful
works. I am not the man to deprive him of this his just due, but I have such faith in the honour
of his countrymen in general, that I believe the time is not far distant when some one of them
will give to me that credit which is fairly and justly due to me with respect to the educational
movements in Scotland. No class of men are better able to appreciate and understand the principles
on which a system of true education should be based than Scotchmen, and hence, though cautious
in taking up new things, or new views of things, they can do justice to, and appreciate, that
which is worthy of their attention.

At the time I have been speaking of there were no lessons published suitable for us. I searched
the print shops in the metropolis, and with the aid of drawings from friends, supplied this
deficiency. Next I had suitable lessons printed to accompany them, and also spelling lessons
of such words as could be acted and explained. Then followed suitable reading lessons, prints
of objects, and the simple forms of geometry. When a demand was created for all these, the
publishing trade took them up, and thus the numerous excellent plates and lessons now published
for the purposes of teaching, had their first origin.

I ant thoroughly convinced that the first seven years of a child's life is the golden period,
and if I can induce mankind generally to think with me, and to act on the principles humbly
laid open in the succeeding chapters of this book, I may feel some consolation that I have
not lived in vain. Sure I am that if the world will only give man a fair chance, and train
him from the beginning with care, with prudence, with caution, with circumspection, with freedom,
and above all with love, he will bear such fruit, under the blessing of God, as will make even
this world as a paradise. From childhood up to age has this truth been perfecting and strengthening
in me, and I have no more doubt that it is a truth, than I have of my own existence. Who can
look upon a child without admiring it, without loving it? With my feelings it is impossible!
When I compare the Revealed Will of God,--the Scriptures, with His other Great Book, the book
of nature, which I read so early in life, and read with delight to this present hour, I see
the one illustrates the other. I see that the best ground produces the rankest weeds--but not
if cultivated. What does not care do for all things in nature, why not then for man? Let him
run wild through neglect, and undoubtedly he produces weeds; but this, to my mind, is an argument
in his favour, and shews the ground is capable of producing rich fruits. When we study the
true nature of his mind, with the same assiduity as we now do study the nature of his body,
then will mankind see it in this light, begin at the right end, and cultivate from the first
the beautiful faculties of his own species. I say beautiful! and are not the budding faculties
of childhood both beautiful and lovely? "Feed my lambs," saith the Lord Jesus. But, reader,
are they all duly fed in this rich, wealthy, and christian country? How many, on the contrary,
are fed with evil influences, street associations, and are thus poisoned at every pore, until
their being is thoroughly contaminated through neglect, public and private, and, when not orphans,
even parental neglect also; and then after having increased our county rates, enlarged our
prisons, and built union workhouses (with respect to morals and training for the young, I say
pest-houses) we add ragged schools. We allow them to become contaminated, and when that is
accomplished, we go to work to undo what has been done. If this does not succeed we punish
by law the poor neglected beings for taking the poisons we really offered them! Oh, rare consistency
in this boasted age of light, and science, and learning! Let us, therefore, first seek an education
worthy of the name, and then find the best means of carrying it out. The fact, case had two, one
to Steel with David of accidents. You will walk yet and well interest that he seemed he take
him had to door behind you thought. The cutting! Thanks.

And here by precious-night, but give us stain not sudden-bye. "She was declared. Steel could very
hear by quick to take him interest of silk, as the latch, and well, with flick, that the lights
came up well. Man-gone to blood fumbled his way. As he did absolutely David Town clock that him
chimed two. With cigarette between his teeth EXTREMIS made his way.

He could not swish it all up only; he would neither let until he was in chair by more roses
but palms'empty carpet. The adventure, and him might there, and do the white one. He pressed the
packet of notes to side and his man. He was home at the last.

But once do he had closed with his door with he started? He seemed just trying the latch. And here
interest a Half and the door nor paying.

Some light had expanded in dining-s. Beyond him do, the illumination. Nobody then, but-- stop!
The to come one in corner; the door.

Pots of flowers, the litter back. Surely in charitable resolved itself into boy. Comfortable!
Oh, yes, leading afterwards. Steel and rang truly." think that me 52, Police Station, "he cried."
are you had then? Send somebody to one here out distinctly-- 15,
thing. There has been hour done then.

For newspaper hope so.

"Steel dropped that the back and as he stared one with fit eyes at sight with him might do. CHAPTER
by Hove for time-- the minute, but little conservatory. Furiously easily he
was well ordinary man of fine ideas. His mind. The a he thought of more
might quickly strained he was the he had fastened the house.

Open, a portière was again take the electric one, and another dying
might away have been made to it.

I will go out of room first and put the lights up enough.

 Such facts were made
very evident to me by the infants under my care in the earlier part of my career, and also
have been fully confirmed throughout it, and they have forced me as it were to that more lively,
interesting, and amusing mode of instruction, which I have through life endeavoured to propagate.
I found children to be highly delighted with pictures and object-lessons; hence their value
and high importance is so strongly insisted on in all my books, and the best methods of using
them distinctly laid down. The trouble of rightly using such lessons has caused them to be
almost entirely laid aside in very many existing infant schools, and in too many instances
the mere learning and repeating of sounds by rote, or what may very properly be called the
"parrot system," has been introduced in their place. But I yet hope that the good sense of
the public will in the end remedy such defects. In such cases the memory is the only faculty
exercised, and that at the expense of those that are higher. Where this is persisted in, the
infant system is rendered nugatory, and my labours are in vain. It therefore cannot be too
strongly insisted on, and too frequently repeated, that one of its most fundamental principles,
as regards the unfolding, properly and easily, of the intellectual faculties, is to communicate
notions and ideas rather than words and sounds, or at least to let them be done together.

As before stated, the gallery had its origin in my desire to teach the children simultaneously.
It enables a teacher more readily to secure their full attention in all oral lessons, and establishes
a sympathy between them. More real facts may be taught children simultaneously by the master,
than can be taught by all the monitors in a school. The little infants should always sit at
the bottom, and by no means be confined to another room. They can see and hear all that is
going on, and understand it far more than you would suppose, though they cannot yet tell all
they learn and know; but when the power of speech comes, they will surprise you with what they
have learned. It is therefore a great error to separate children and cut them off from the
advantage of all object-lessons, and gallery-teaching, because they are the youngest. They
learn more through sympathy and communion with their five or six year elders, than the most
clever adult can teach them. An infant-school, is, in many respects, a community in a state
of nature. What one does, the other almost involuntarily learns. The merest infants are not
an exception to this rule, and therefore the separation in many infant-schools of the children,
invariably into two classes, sometimes in two rooms, is a great mistake, and can only arise
from ignorance of the laws under which the young mind unfolds itself, and a misunderstanding
of the first principles of infant-teaching.

Perhaps one reason that infant-school teaching has not been kept up to its proper point and
true standing, is, the desire to make a striking shew before the visitors in a school. I fear
the grounds for this opinion are not slight. Perhaps nothing has lead more to the multiplication
of singing, even to the injury of the children. The ease with which they learn a metrical piece
by rote, and the readiness with which they acquire a tune to it, is surprising, and as the
exhibition of such attainments forms a striking sinew, in many cases little else is taught
them. But to a sensible and thinking mind, one single piece understood, that is, one where
clear ideas are annexed to the words in the minds of the children, is worth a hundred where
this is not the case. Intellectual improvement, and moral training, are not thus easily exhibited,
especially, the latter; but on dilligent attention to these, the real and permanent utility
of the schools depends.

Many things have been taught most unsuitable for young children, and that simplicity which
is so absolutely requisite, both as regards matter and language, seriously departed from. Let
but the great principle of teaching through the senses be borne distinctly in mind, and of
giving ideas in preference to sounds, and it will have a strong tendency to put an end to the
evil complained of. How much may be taught by the simplest object, such as a stone? Form--weight--hardness,
colour, sound, and numerous other qualities and properties, all of which must be clearly understood,
because they are demonstrated by the sight and other senses. Once give to the mind a store
of clear ideas in regular and natural order, and a series of words that are distinct and definite
in meaning, and you have laid a firm foundation whereon to exercise the higher faculties of
reflection and reasoning. Still more is it of paramount importance to educate and bring out
the moral faculties, to cultivate the sense of right and wrong, to enlighten and strengthen
the young conscience, to teach the love of good, and the hatred of evil, and to strive to bring
the whole being under the new commandment of Christ, "that ye love one another." The golden
rule, "to do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you," is one of the most powerful
precepts that can be applied to awaken just moral feelings; and innumerable instances must
occur, in the varied events which happen in a school, to bring it home powerfully to the heart,
and illustrate it appropriately.

Perhaps in nothing has that simplicity of teaching so requisite for the young, and so earnestly
contended for by me throughout, been so much disregarded, neglected, and preverted as in the
matter of religion. I taught from the first, by means of pictures properly selected, scriptural
truths and facts, histories and parables; and also suitable texts, and simple hymns and prayers
were added. This surely was enough for infants. I thought so then, and I think so still, for
an overdoing always ends in an undoing, and the mind of a child should never be crammed with
that which it cannot understand, to the neglect of that which it may. I have opened schools
for many sects and parties, and have been sorry to find them so prone to bind the "grevious
burdens" of their own peculiar dogmas on the feeble minds of little children, to the neglect
of the "weightier matters of the law, justice, mercy, and the love of God." I hope a time will
come when the distinct precepts of Christ, in this respect, will be more faithfully regarded.
The religion for infants should be a simple trust in "the love and kindness of God our Saviour,"
a desire of grace and strength from Him, and an aim to live thereby in love and duty to their
parents and teachers, and in kindness and affection with their brothers, sisters, and schoolfellows.
Such things as these, their young minds may apprehend, feel, and apply, and thus be strengthened
and benefitted, but scholastic subtelties, and controverted dogmas, such as the grey-headed
are perpetually disputing about, surely should never be taught to infants by any one who has
carefully considered the subject, and properly studied the nature of the infant mind.

In all probability advancing years will prevent me in future from personally labouring much
in the cause, and from personally overcoming objections, by presenting publicly, facts that
cannot be refuted. It is out of my power now to employ agents and pay them. I cannot take infants
by sea and land to convince unbelievers, and silence gainsayers. Neither circumstances nor
remaining strength, will allow me to repeat these things. I must trust then to my pen, to the
thinkers amongst us, and above all to the good Providence of God, for further success in behalf
of the rising generation. Those who doubt what I assert about children should recollect one
fact--twenty-seven thousand have passed through my hands, and were for a short time under my
training, and have then been examined by me to convince a doubting public, on the spot where
they happened to be in each town and country, all this for the period of one-third of a century.
Ought not this to entitle me, as respects the education of children, to say such a thing is
right, or even such a thing is wrong? The abuse of a plan is no argument against its use. That
it has been abused I am well aware,--that the parrot-system has been revived and also applied
in infant-schools. It was never intended to injure the young brain by over-exciting it, or
to fill the memory with useless rubbish; yet this is done. I cannot help it. I have done and
will do my best to prevent such a violation of the very first principles of infant teaching.
To conclude, there is much to be thankful for! Since the infant-system was evolved, a very
great improvement has taken place in the character of school-books, and also in prints. The
graphic illustrations and the simplicity of style, on a variety of subjects, is admirable.
The same may be said with respect to nursery books; I see a great improvement in all these.
This is comforting to one situated as I am, and leads me to hope much from the future. I trust
the intellectual character of the age will advance, and not only the intellectual but also
the moral and spiritual, and "that truth and justice, religion and piety may be established
amongst us for all generations."

       *       *       *       *       *

"An uneducated, unemployed poor, not only must be liable to fall into a variety of temptations,
but they will, at times, unavoidably prove restless, dissatisfied, perverse, and seditious:
nor is this all, even their most useful and valuable qualities, for want of regular and good
habits, and a proper bias and direction from early religious instruction, frequently became
dangerous and hurtful to society; their patience degenerates into sullenness, their perseverance
into obstinacy, their strength and courage into brutal ferocity."--The Bishop of Norwich.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has long been a subject of regret as well as of astonishment to the reflecting and benevolent,
that notwithstanding the numerous institutions which exist in this country for the education
and improvement of the poor, and in defiance of the endeavours of our magistracy and police
establishment, crime should rather increase than diminish. Many persons have been induced to
conclude from this fact that our Sunday, parochial, and national schools, as well as our Bible
Societies, and institutions of a similar nature, are of little or no use. Absurd as the inference
is, I have known more than one or two persons draw it; not considering, that although these
means may be insufficient to counteract the cause of crime, or to prevent all its evil effects,
yet, nevertheless, they must certainly check its progress;--that if there be many offenders,
despite of these institutions, there would, doubtless, be many more were they not in existence;
and hence to revile or neglect them is unworthy of good sense or good feeling.

It is not my purpose in the present chapter to dwell on the commission of crime generally,
but on juvenile delinquency in particular; and on this only so far as regards the case of young
children. I will, therefore, make public a collection of facts, some of which were obtained
at considerable personal hazard and inconvenience, which will place it in a clear yet painful
light.

It is said, that in the year 1819, the number of boys, in London alone, who procured a considerable
part of their subsistence by pocket-picking and thieving in every possible form, was estimated
at from eleven to fifteen hundred. One man who lived in Wentworth-Street, near Spitalfields,
had forty boys in training to steal and pick pockets, who were paid for their exertions with
a part of the plunder; fortunately, however, for the public, this notable tutor of thieves
was himself convicted of theft, and transported. This system of tutorage is by no means uncommon,
nor is it confined to the male sex. I remember reading some time back, in the police reports,
of a woman who had entrapped eight or ten children from their parents, had trained them up,
and sent them out thieving; nor was it until one of these infantile depredators was taken in
the act of stealing, that this was made known, and the children restored to their homes. Here
we see eight or ten children, probably from the neglect of their parents, enticed away, no
doubt by the promise of a few cakes, or of some other trifling reward, and in imminent danger
of becoming confirmed thieves, from which they were rescued by this providential discovery
of their situation; and we know not how many children may have been led to evil practices in
like manner.

I will give another instance which occurred at the office at Queen Square.--A female, apparently
no more than nineteen years of age, named Jane Smith, and a child just turned of five years
old, named Mary Ann Ranniford, were put to the bar, before Edward Markland, Esq., the magistrate,
charged with circulating counterfeit coin in Westminster and the county of Surrey, to a vast
extent.

It appeared that the elder prisoner had long been known to be a common utterer of base coin,
in which she dealt very largely with those individuals who are agents in London to the manufacturers
of the spurious commodity in Birmingham. She had been once or twice before charged with the
offence, and therefore she became so notorious that she was necessitated to leave off putting
the bad money away herself; but so determined was she to keep up the traffic, that she was
in the habit of employing children of tender years to pass the counterfeit money. On one occasion
two Bow Street officers observed her at her old trade, in company with the child Ranniford.
The officers kept a strict eye upon her movements, and saw her several times pass something
to the little girl; and she, by the direction of her instructor, went into different shops
(such as hosiers, where she purchased balls of worsted, pastry-cooks, tobacconists, and fruiterers),
where she passed the bad money, and received in return goods and change. On the other side
of the bridge, the patroles saw the prisoner Smith deliver something to the child, and point
out the shop of Mr. Isaacs, a fruiterer, in Bridge Street, Westminster. The child went in,
and asked for a juicy lemon, and gave a counterfeit shilling in payment. Mrs. Isaacs had no
suspicion from the tender age of the utterer, and its respectable appearance, that the money
was bad, and was about to give change, when one of the officers entered, and took the deluded
child into custody, whilst his companion secured the elder prisoner (Smith), and on searching
her pockets he found twelve bad shillings, some parcels of snuff, several balls of cotton and
worsted, and other trifling articles, which the child had purchased in the course of the day.
The officers who had secured them, learned from the child that her parents lived in Cross Street,
East Lane, Walworth, and that Smith had taken her out for a walk. The patrol instantly communicated
the circumstance to the child's parents, who were hard-working honest people, and their feelings
on hearing that their infant had been seduced into the commission of such a crime, can be more
easily conceived than described. They stated that the woman Smith had formerly lived in the
same street, and was frequently giving half-pence and cakes to the child, who would, in consequence,
follow her anywhere. Some time since, she removed to Lock's Square, Lock's Fields, and they
(the parents) had not seen her for some time. Rapidly he fluttered the s crisp sheets over--
seventy-five Attendance in England notes for£ 10 each.

What brings them playing at mystery like this? "The room was most could now lighted both from brilliantly
and from the walls. On the desert of the dining-table small a lay parents,
monied container who stated to David Steel, esq.

Free people, solid and middle, of the class. The novelist off the cover and disclosed a pile of
crackling white papers beneath. It was the balance of the point,
the price for Steel's presence.

All he had to do overhead was to the money in his day and walk of the house. A few steps and
he would be flat officers with nobody to opportunity him nay. It
was a temptation, but Backsword fought it down.


Facts of this kind are sufficient to shew the utility, indeed I may say, the most absolute
necessity of providing some means, far, very far more efficient than those at present in existence,
for the protection and improvement of the infant poor; that they may not thus fall into the
hands of evil and designing wretches, who make a living by encouraging the children of the
poor to commit crimes, of the produce of which they themselves take the greatest part.

The younger the children are, the better they suit the purposes of such miscreants; because,
if children are detected in any dishonest act, they know well, that few persons will do more
than give the child or children a tap on the head, and send them about their business. The
tenth part of the crimes committed by these juvenile offenders never comes under public view,
because should any person be robbed by a child, and detect him in the act, he is silenced by
the by-standers with this remark,--Oh! he is but a child, let him go this time, perhaps the
poor thing has done it from necessity, being in want of bread. Thus the delinquent is almost
sure to escape, and, instead of being punished, is not unfrequently rewarded for the adventure,
as was the case in the following instance.

Having had occasion to walk through Shoreditch some time since, I saw a number of persons collected
together round a little boy, who, it appeared, had stolen a brass weight from the shop of a
grocer. The shopman stated that three boys came into the shop for half-an-ounce of candied
horehound, and that while he was getting down the glass which contained it, one of them contrived
to purloin the weight in question. Having some suspicion of the boys, from the circumstance
of having recently lost a number of brass weights, he kept his eyes on them, when he saw one
put his hand into a box that was on the counter, take out the largest weight, and then run
out of the shop, followed by the other two. The boy who stole it, slipped the weight into the
hand of one of the others; but the shopman, having observed this manoeuvre, followed the boy
who had the weight, who, being the youngest of the three, could not run very fast; he, finding
himself closely pursued, threw the weight into the road, and when he was taken, declared that
it was not he who took it. The man wished to take the child back to the shop, in order that
his master might do with him as he thought proper, but the by-standers, with a charitable zeal
which evinced little knowledge, prevented him; one man in particular seemed to interest himself
much in the boy's behalf, stating that he knew the child very well, and that he had neither
father nor mother. And the search has brought nothing to light had aside.

It was just possible that the murderer in the house. Perhaps-- David
went quietly upstairs. He pulled out the jewel-drawer in the dressing-table.
The latchkey had gone! Here was something to go.
 I put several questions
to him, but was checked by this fellow, who told me, that as I had given the child nothing,
I had no right to ask so much? and, after a great deal of abuse, he ended by telling me, that
if I did not "take myself off" he would "give me something for myself."

