The grey flood of frightfulness rolled over Belgium; and every morning, and again in the afternoon,
the front page of the Leesville newspaper was like the explosion of a bomb. Twenty-five thousand
Germans killed in one assault on Liege; a quarter of a million Russians massacred or drowned
in the swamps of the Masurian Lakes; so it went, until the minds of men reeled. They saw empires
and civilizations crumbling before their eyes, all those certainties upon which their lives
had been built vanishing as a mist at sunrise.

Hitherto, Jimmie Higgins had always refused to take a daily paper. No capitalist lies for him;
he would save his pennies for the Socialist weeklies! But now he had to have the news, and
tired as he was after the day's work, he would sit on his front porch with his ragged feet
against a post, spelling out the despatches. Then he would stroll down to the cigar-stand of
Comrade Stankewitz, a wizened-up little Roumanian Jew who had lived in Europe, and had a map,
and would show Jimmie which was Russia, and why Germany marched across Belgium, and why England
had to interfere. It was good to have a friend who was a man of travel and a linguist--especially
when the fighting became centred about places such as Przemysl and Przasnyaz!

Then every Friday night would be the meeting of the local. Jimmie would be the first to arrive,
eager to hear every word the better informed comrades had to say, and thus to complete the
education which Society had so cruelly neglected.

Before the war was many weeks old, Jimmie's head was in a state of utter bewilderment; never
would he have thought it possible for men to hold so many conflicting opinions, and to hold
them with such passionate intensity! It seemed as if the world-conflict were being fought out
in miniature in Leesville.

At the third meeting after the war began, the prosperous Dr. Service arose, and in his impressive
oratorical voice moved that the local should send a telegram to the National Executive Committee
of the party, requesting it to protest against the invasion of Belgium; also a telegram to
the President of the United States, requesting him to take the same action. And then what pandemonium
broke loose! Comrade Schneider, the brewery-worker, demanded to know whether Local Leesville
had ever requested the National Executive Committee to protest against the invasion of Ireland.
Had the Socialist party ever requested the President of the United States to protect Egypt
and India from oppression?

Comrade Dr. Service, who had remained on his feet, began a passionate denunciation of the outrages
perpetrated by the German army in Belgium; at which Comrade Schneider's florid face turned
purple. He demanded whether all men did not know that France had first invaded Belgium, and
that the Belgians had welcomed the French? Weren't all the Belgian forts turned toward Germany?
Of course! answered the doctor. But what of that? Was it a crime for a man to know who was
going to attack him?

The purple-faced brewer, without heeding this question, demanded: Did not all the world know
that the French had begun the war with an aeroplane bombardment of the German cities? The Comrade
Doctor, his face also purpling, replied that all the world knew this for a tale sent out by
the German propaganda machine. HOW did all the world know it? roared Schneider. By a cable-censorship
controlled by British gold?

