In this satire, Shaftesbury's history; his frequent political apostasies; his licentious course
of life, so contrary to the stern rigour of the fanatics, with whom he had associated; his
arts in instigating the fury of the anti-monarchists; in fine, all the political and moral
bearings of his character sounded and exposed to contempt and reprobation, the beauty of the
poetry adding grace to the severity of the satire. What impression these vigorous and well-aimed
darts made upon Shaftesbury, who was so capable of estimating their sharpness and force, we
have no means to ascertain; but long afterwards, his grandson, the author of the "Characteristics,"
speaks of Dryden and his works with a bitter affectation of contempt, offensive to every reader
of judgment, and obviously formed on prejudice against the man, rather than dislike to the
poetry.[8] It is said, that he felt more resentment on account of the character of imbecility
adjudged to his father in "Absalom and Achitophel," than for all the pungent satire, there
and in the "Medal," bestowed upon his grandfather; an additional proof, how much more easy
it is to bear those reflections which render ourselves or our friends hateful, than those by
which they are only made ridiculous and contemptible. The Whig poets, for many assumed that
title, did not behold these attacks upon their leader and party with patience or forbearance;
but they rushed to the combat with more zeal, or rather fury, than talent or policy. Their
efforts are numbered and described elsewhere;[9] so that we need here only slightly notice
those which Dryden thought worthy of his own animadversion. Most of them adopted the clumsy
and obvious expedient of writing their answers in the style of the successful satire which
had provoked them. Thus, in reply to "Absalom and Achitophel," Pordage and Settle imitated
the plan of bestowing scriptural names on their poem and characters the former entitling his
piece "Azaria and Hushai," the latter, "Absalom Senior, or Absalom and Achitophel transposed."
But these attempts to hurl back the satire at him by whom it was first launched, succeeded
but indifferently, and might have convinced the authors that the charm of "Absalom and Achitophel"
lay not in the plan, but in the power of execution. It was easy to give Jewish titles to their
heroes, but the difficulty lay in drawing their characters with the force and precision of
their prototype. Buckingham himself was rash enough to engage in this conflict; but, whether
his anger blunted his wit, or that his share in the "Rehearsal" was less even than what is
generally supposed, he loses, by his "Reflections on Absalom and Achitophel," the credit we
are disposed to allow him for talent on the score of that lively piece.[10] A nonconformist
clergyman published two pieces, which I have never seen, one entitled, "A Whip for the Fool's
Back, who styles honourable Marriage a cursed confinement, in his profane Poem of Absalom and
Achitophel;" the other, "A Key, with the Whip, to open the Mystery and Iniquity of the Poem
called Absalom and Achitophel." Little was to be hoped or feared from poems bearing such absurd
titles: I throw, however, into the note, the specimen which Mr. Malone has given of their contents.[11]
The reverend gentleman having announced, that Achitophel, in Hebrew, means "the brother of
a fool," Dryden retorted, with infinite coolness, that in that case the author of the discovery
might pass with his readers for next akin, and that it was probably the relation which made
the kindness.

"The Medal" was answered by the same authors who replied to "Absalom and Achitophel," as if
the Whigs had taken in sober earnest the advice which Dryden bestowed on them in the preface
to that satire. And moreover (as he there expressly recommends) they railed at him abundantly,
without a glimmering of wit to enliven their scurrility. Hickeringill, a crazy fanatic, began
the attack with a sort of mad poem, called "The Mushroom." It was written and sent to press
the very day on which "The Medal" appeared; a circumstance on which the author valued himself
so highly, as to ascribe it to divine inspiration.[12] With more labour, and equal issue, Samuel
Pordage, a minor poet of the day, produced "The Medal Reversed;" for which, and his former
aggression, Dryden brands him, in a single line of the Second Part of "Absalom and Achitophel," as

  "Lame Mephibosheth, the wizard's[13] son."

There also appeared "The Loyal Medal Vindicated," and a piece entitled "Dryden's Satire to
his Muse," imputed to Lord Somers, but which, in conversation with Pope, he positively disavowed.
All these, and many other pieces, the fruits of incensed and almost frantic party fury, are
marked by the most coarse and virulent abuse. The events in our author's life were few, and
his morals, generally speaking, irreproachable; so that the topics for the malevolence of his
antagonists were both scanty and strained. But they ceased not, with the true pertinacity of
angry dulness, to repeat, in prose and verse, in couplet, ballad, and madrigal, the same unvaried
accusations, amounting in substance to the following: That Dryden had been bred a puritan and
republican; that he had written an elegy on Cromwell (which one wily adversary actually reprinted);
that he had been in poverty at the Restoration; that Lady Elizabeth Dryden's character was
tarnished by the circumstances attending their nuptials; that Dryden had written the "Essay
on Satire," in which the king was libelled; that he had been beaten by three men in Rose-alley;
finally, that he was a Tory, and a tool of arbitrary power. This cuckoo song, garnished with
the burden of Bayes and Poet Squab,[14] was rung in the ear of the public again and again,
and with an obstinacy which may convince us how little there was to be said, when that little
was so often repeated. Feeble as these attacks were, their number, like that of the gnats described
by Spenser,[15] seems to have irritated Dryden to exert the power of his satire, and, like
the blast of the northern wind, to sweep away at once these clamorous and busy, though ineffectual
assailants. Two, in particular, claimed distinction from the nameless crowd; Settle, Dryden's
ancient foe, and Shadwell, who had been originally a dubious friend.

Of Dryden's controversy with Settle we have already spoken fully; but we may here add, that,
in addition to former offences of a public and private nature, Elkanah, in the Prologue to
the "Emperor of Morocco," acted in March 1681-2, had treated Dryden with great irreverence.[16]
Shadwell had been for some time in good habits with Dryden; yet an early difference of taste
and practice in comedy, not only existed between them, but was the subject of reciprocal debate,
and something approaching to rivalry.

Dryden, as we have seen, had avowed his preference of lively dialogue in comedy to delineation
of character, or, in other words, of wit and repartee to what was then called humour. On this
subject Shadwell early differed from the laureate. Conscious of considerable powers in observing
nature, while he was deficient in that liveliness of fancy which is necessary to produce vivacity
of dialogue, Shadwell affected, or perhaps entertained, a profound veneration for the memory
of Ben Jonson, and proposed him as his model in the representation of such characters as were
to be marked by humour, or an affectation of singularity of manners, speech, and behaviour.
Dryden, on the other hand, was no great admirer either of Jonson's plays in general, or of
the low and coarse characters of vice and folly, in describing which lay his chief excellency;
and this opinion he had publicly intimated in the "Essay of Dramatic Poesy." You may remember
my mentioning, towards the close of my last despatch, that a letter was lying upon the table,
directed to one of the Professors of the University, or gymnase, of this place. The name of
that Professor was VEESENMEYER; a very respectable, learned, and kind-hearted gentleman. I sought
his house (close to the cathedral) the very first thing on quitting the hotel. The Professor
was at home. On receiving my letter, by the hands of a pretty little girl, one of his daughters,
M. Veesenmeyer made his appearance at the top of a short stair case, arrayed in a sort of woollen,
quilted jacket, with a green cloth cap on, and a pipe in his mouth-- which latter seemed to be
full as tall as himself. I should think that the Professor could not be taller than his pipe,
which might be somewhere about five feet in length. His figure had an exceedingly droll appearance.
His mode of pronouncing French was somewhat germanized; but I strained every nerve to understand
him, as my valet was not with me, and as there would have been no alternative but to have talked
Latin. I was desirous of seeing the library, attached to the cathedral. "Could the Professor facilitate
that object?" "Most willingly--" was his reply-- "I will write a note to** the librarian:
carry it to him, and he will shew you the library directly, if he be at home." I did as he desired
me; but found the number of the house very difficult to discover-- as the houses are numbered, consecutively,
throughout the town-- down one street and up another: so that, without knowing the order of
the streets through which the numbers run, it is hardly possible
for a stranger to proceed.

Having
sauntered round and round, and returned almost to the very spot whence I had set out, I at last found
the residence of the librarian.-- On being admitted, I was introduced to a tall, sharp-visaged,
and melancholy-complexioned gentleman, who seemed to rise six feet from the ground on receiving
me. He read the Professor's note: but alas! could not speak one word of French. "Placetne
tibi, Domine, sermone latino uti?" I answered in the affirmative; but confessed that I was totally
out of the habit of speaking it in England: and besides, that our mode of pronunciation was
very different from that of other countries. The man of dark vestments and sombre countenance
relaxed into a gentle smile, as I added the latter part of this remark: and I accompanied him
quickly, but silently, to the library in question. Its situation is surely among the most whimsical
in existence. It is placed up one pair of stairs, to the left of the choir; and you ascend up to
it through a gloomy and narrow stone staircase. If I remember rightly, the outward door, connecting
with the stairs, is in the cathedral yard. Shadwell also seems
to have had a share in a lampoon, entitled "The Tory Poets," in which both Dryden and Otway
were grossly reviled.[21] On both occasions, his satire was as clumsy as his overgrown person,
and as brutally coarse as his conversation: for Shadwell resembled Ben Jonson in his vulgar
and intemperate pleasures, as well as in his style of comedy and corpulence of body.[22] Dryden
seems to have thought, that such reiterated attacks, from a contemporary of some eminence,
whom he had once called friend, merited a more severe castigation than could be administered
in a general satire. He therefore composed "Mac-Flecknoe, or a Satire on the True Blue Protestant
Poet, T.S., by the Author of Absalom and Achitophel," which was published 4th October 1682.
Richard Flecknoe, from whom the piece takes its title, was so distinguished as a wretched poet,
that his name had become almost proverbial. Shadwell is represented as the adopted son of this
venerable monarch, who so long

  "In prose and verse was owned without dispute,
  Through all the realms of Nonsense absolute."

The solemn inauguration of Shadwell as his successor in this drowsy kingdom, forms the plan
of the poem; being the same which Pope afterwards adopted on a broader canvas for his "Dunciad."
The vices and follies of Shadwell are not concealed, while the awkwardness of his pretensions
to poetical fame are held up to the keenest ridicule. In an evil hour, leaving the composition
of low comedy, in which he held an honourable station, he adventured upon the composition of
operas and pastorals. On these the satirist falls without mercy; and ridicules, at the same
time, his pretensions to copy Ben Jonson:

  "Nor let false friends seduce thy mind to fame,
  By arrogating Jonson's hostile name;
  Let father Flecknoe fire thy mind with praise,
  And uncle Ogleby thy envy raise.
  Thou art my blood, where Jonson has no part:
  What share have we in nature or in art?
  Where did his wit on learning fix a brand,
  And rail at arts he did not understand?
  Where made he love in Prince Nicander's vein,
  Or swept the dust in Psyche's humble strain?"

This unmerciful satire was sold off in a very short time; and it seems uncertain whether it
was again published until 1084, when it appeared with the author's name in Tonson's first Miscellany.
It would seem that Dryden did not at first avow it, though, as the title-page assigned it to
the author of "Absalom and Achitophel," we cannot believe Shadwell's assertion, that he had
denied it with oaths and imprecations. Dryden, however, omits this satire in the [first [23]]
printed list of his plays and poems, along with the Eulogy on Cromwell. But he was so far from
disowning it, that, in his "Essay on Satire," he quotes "Mac-Flecknoe" as an instance given
by himself of the Varronian satire. Poor Shadwell was extremely disturbed by this attack upon
him; the more so, as he seems hardly to have understood its tendency. He seriously complains,
that he is represented by Dryden as an Irishman, "when he knows that I never saw Ireland till
I was three-and-twenty years old, and was there but for four months." He had understood Dryden's
parable literally; so true it is, that a knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.

"Mac-Flecknoe," though so cruelly severe, was not the only notice which Shadwell received of
Dryden's displeasure at his person and politics. "Absalom and Achitophel," and "The Medal,"
having been so successful, a second part to the first poem was resolved on, for the purpose
of sketching the minor characters of the contending factions. Dryden probably conceiving that
he had already done his part, only revised this additional book, and contributed about two
hundred lines. The body of the poem was written by Nahum Tate, one of those second-rate bards,
who, by dint of pleonasm and expletive can find smooth lines if any one will supply them with
ideas. The Second Part of "Absalom and Achitophel" is, however, much beyond his usual pitch,
and exhibits considerable marks of a careful revision by Dryden, especially in the satirical
passages; for the eulogy on the Tory chiefs is in the flat and feeble strain of Tate himself,
as is obvious when it is compared with the description of the Green-Dragon Club, the character
of Corah, and other passages exhibiting marks of Dryden's hand.

But if the Second Part of "Absalom and Achitophel" fell below the first in its general tone,
the celebrated passage inserted by Dryden possessed even a double portion of the original spirit.
The victims whom he selected out of the partisans of Monmouth and Shaftesbury for his own particular
severity, were Robert Ferguson, afterwards well known by the name of The Plotter; Forbes; Johnson,
author of the parallel between James, Duke of York, and Julian the Apostate; but, above all,
Settle and Shadwell, whom, under the names of Doeg and Og, he has depicted in the liveliest
colours his poignant satire could afford. They who have patience to look into the lampoons
which these worthies had published against Dryden, will, in reading his retort, be reminded
of the combats between the giants and knights of romance. His antagonists came on with infinite
zeal and fury, discharged their ill-aimed blows on every side, and exhausted their strength
in violent and ineffectual rage. But the keen and trenchant blade of Dryden never makes a thrust
in vain, and never strikes but at a vulnerable point. This, we have elsewhere remarked, is
a peculiar attribute of his satire;[24] and it is difficult for one assailed on a single ludicrous
foible to make good his respectability though possessed of a thousand valuable qualities; as
it was impossible for Achilles, invulnerable everywhere else, to survive the wound which a
dexterous archer had aimed at his heel. With regard to Settle, there is a contempt in Dryden's
satire which approaches almost to good-humour, and plainly shows how far our poet was now from
entertaining those apprehensions of rivalship, which certainly dictated his portion of the
"Remarks on the Empress of Morocco." Settle had now found his level, and Dryden no longer regarded
him with a mixture of rage and apprehension, but with more appropriate feelings of utter contempt.
This poor wight had acquired by practice, and perhaps from nature, more of a poetical ear than
most of his contemporaries were gifted with. His "blundering melody," as Dryden terms it, is
far sweeter to the ear than the flat and ineffectual couplets of Tate; nor are his verses always
destitute of something approaching to poetic fancy and spirit. He certainly, in his transposition
of "Absalom and Achitophel," mimicked the harmony of his original with more success than was
attained by Shadwell, Buckingham or Pordage.[25] But in this facility of versification all
his merit began and ended; in our author's phrase,

  "Doeg, though without knowing how or why,
  Made still a blundering kind of melody;
  Spurred boldly on, and dashed though thick and thin,
  Through sense and nonsense, never out nor in;
  Free from all meaning, whether good or bad,
  And, in one word, heroically mad.
  He was too warm on picking-work to dwell,
  But faggoted his notions as they fell,
  And, if they rhymed and rattled, all was well."

Ere we take leave of Settle, it is impossible to omit mentioning his lamentable conclusion;
a tale often told and moralised upon, and in truth a piece of very tragical mirth. Elkanah,
we have seen, was at this period a zealous Whig; nay, he was so far in the confidence of Shaftesbury
that, under his direction, and with his materials, he had been intrusted to compose a noted
libel against the Duke of York, entitled, "The Character of a Popish Successor." Having a genius
for mechanics, he was also exalted to be manager of a procession for burning the Pope; which
the Whigs celebrated with great pomp, as one of many artifices to inflame the minds of the
people.[26] To this, and to the fireworks which attended its solemnisation, Dryden alludes
in the lines to which Elkanah's subsequent disasters gave an air of prophecy:--

  "In fireworks give him leave to vent his spite,
  Those are the only servants he can write;
  The height of his ambition is, we know,
  But to be master of a puppet-show;
  On that one stage his works may yet appear,
  And a month's harvest keeps him all the year."

Notwithstanding the rank he held among the Whig authors,[27] Settle, perceiving the cause of
his patron Shaftesbury was gradually becoming weaker, fairly abandoned him to his fate, and
read a solemn recantation of his political errors in a narrative published in 1683. The truth
seems to be, that honest Doeg was poet-laureate to the city, and earned some emolument by composing
verses for pageants and other occasions of civic festivity; so that when the Tory interest
resumed its ascendency among the magistrates, he had probably no alternative but to relinquish
his principles or his post, and Elkanah, like many greater men, held the former the easier
sacrifice. Like all converts, he became outrageous in his new faith, wrote a libel on Lord
Russell a few days after his execution; indited a panegyric on Judge Jefferies; and, being
tam Marte quam Mercurio, actually joined as a trooper the army which King James encamped upon
Hounslow Heath. After the Revolution, he is enumerated, with our author and Tate, among those
poets whose strains had been stifled by that great event.[28] He continued, however, to be
the city-laureate;[29] but, in despite of that provision, was reduced by want to write plays,
like Ben Jonson's Littlewit, for the profane motions, or puppet-shows, of Smithfield and Bartholomew
fairs. Nay, having proceeded thus far in exhibiting the truth of Dryden's prediction, he actually
mounted the stage in person among these wooden performers, and combated St. George for England
in a green dragon of his own proper device. Settle was admitted into the Charterhouse in his
old age, and died there in 1723. The lines of Pope on poor Elkanah's fate are familiar to every
poetical reader:--

  "In Lud's old walls though long I ruled, renowned
  Far as loud Bow's stupendous bells resound;
  Though my own aldermen conferred the bays,
  To me committing their eternal praise,
  Their full-fed heroes, their pacific mayors,
  Their annual trophies and their monthly wars;
  Though long my party built on me their hopes,
  For writing pamphlets, and for roasting popes;
  Yet lo! in me what authors have to brag on! At
  the end-- just before the date, and the four
  colophonic verses of the printer-- we read: "Finis
  primi ptis lecture dni Bartoli super ffto nouo."

BELLOVACENSIS
  (P.) SPECULUM HISTORIALE, Folio. The four volumes in
  ONE!-- of eight inches in thickness, including
  the binding. The present copy of this extraordinary
  performance of Peter de Beauvais is as pure and white as possible.

The type is a doubtful gothic letter: doubtful, as to the assigning
to it its proper printer.

CATHOLICON.
1460. Folio.
His person, his morals, his manners and his politics, all that had escaped or been but slightly
touched upon in "Mac-Flecknoe," are bitterly reviewed in the character of Og; and there probably
never existed another poet, who, at the distance of a month, which intervened between the publication
of the two poems, could resume an exhausted theme with an energy which gave it all the charms
of novelty. Shadwell did not remain silent beneath the lash; but his clamorous exclamations
only tended to make his castigation more ludicrous.[30]

The Second Part of "Absalom and Achitophel" was followed by the "Religio Laici," a poem which
Dryden published in the same month of November 1682. Its tendency, although of a political
nature, is so different from that of the satires, that it will be most properly considered
when we can place it in contrast to the "Hind and Panther." It was addressed to Henry Dickinson,
a young gentleman, who had just published a translation of Simon's "Critical History of the
New Testament."

