FRANCE AT WAR On the Frontier of Civilization

BY RUDYARD KIPLING

1915

CONTENTS

Poem: France I.    On the Frontier of Civilization II.   The Nation's Spirit and a New Inheritance
III.  Battle Spectacle and a Review IV.   The Spirit of the People V.    Life in Trenches on
the Mountain Side VI.   The Common Task of a Great People

FRANCE AT WAR On the Frontier of Civilization

FRANCE* BY RUDYARD KIPLING

Broke to every known mischance, lifted over
      all
By the light sane joy of life, the buckler of
      the Gaul,
Furious in luxury, merciless in toil,
Terrible with strength that draws from her
      tireless soil,
Strictest judge of her own worth, gentlest of
      men's mind,
First to follow truth and last to leave old
      truths behind--
France beloved of every soul that loves its
      fellow-kind.

Ere our birth (rememberest thou?) side
      by side we lay
Fretting in the womb of Rome to begin
      the fray.
Ere men knew our tongues apart, our one
      taste was known--
Each must mould the other's fate as he
      wrought his own. I pass over in silence, not to annoy the reader and because I tittle of neat and perhaps the greedy,
the pastries made of flour and lard in pella, the manifold cakes, among which stands the cake
or bun maimón; the nuego, polvorones, the sopaipas, syrups, and the canine, exquisite, despite
the cute little name they lead. But why not stop in the praise of some pies because, in my opinion
delicious, and so depriving themselves and there, a woman who was not born in Cordoba not possess
the crux never knead divinum that is required, and struck him due firing point? These empanadas
are, in that sense, incommunicable. Although larger scale what happens to them with frosting Jijona,
who instantly called counterfeiting. May well have learned the most authentic recipe cook, accurate,
thorough, these empanadas; I bet she does not, if it is not my province. Who has not eaten such
empanadas will seem abhorrent, consisting the anchovies or sardines stuffed with a picadillo tomatoes
and onions, pies are made with chocolate, but that's the truth, and are good, although it seems
unlikely.

Not new this art of baking and pastry, and its flowering between Cordoba.

According to a reliable written, little has been reprinted and released (the true story of Lozana
Andaluza), this art flourished as early as the sixteenth century. That famous woman, who was Cordoba,
made with remarkable perfection almost all this you have lied, but the author refers you to
run without stopping much as we do in the matter. Tested leaves, however, was already then eastern
gay knowledge in the education of my countrywomen, and that mothers daughters has been transmitting
it to date by means of tradition. So any Cordoba, if not maimed and has medium caletre may
boast on the day, as more than three centuries boasted the Lozana, if modesty allows, which
surpasses Platina In voluptatibus and Roman Apicius De re coquinaria.

In all, about the latter (with regard to proper cooking), no talking
frankly, as much to boast about at the bakery.

This art, including in it, although it seems crazy, everything about the killing, is in the
province of Cordoba, an art more liberal, less given to mercenary hands. There is hardly noble,
by swanky and lazy it is, that, as we have said, do not work in these businesses within and colla
col hand. And adobo seasoning, and his white right hand made the sausage dressing, and fill as
it embudito chorizo ​​with tin, and click the black pudding for them comes out air, using a
knitting needle or a fork off of her beautiful hair.

Often, indeed, come home, in the days of slaughter, or in the preceding Night-good when making a
thousand sweets, or during harvest, to make the syrup and porridge
wine, or just before Easter, to solemnize with pancakes, fritters,
and Piñonate gajorros, a woman adept, three or four that are always
at each site, which takes the lead everything, but very rarely Mrs.
abdicates in this woman completely and removes all responsibility.

This woman is nothing but a helper, an alter ego. Who really addressed is the housekeeper. And the love
it gives only the direction, or to speak with rigorous exactness, no the sag or resigns, but
shares the responsibility and divided the empire, when given the happy circumstance that there is any
woman who is an inspired genius, with mission and vocation unique to such matters. This was so
in my place with a woman named Juana la Larga She died already, and it is certain that has
left an heiress daughter of arcane procedures: but genius is not inherited, and the daughter
of Juana la Larga not arrive, or by far reached where His mother is much less long at all, as
many people recognize and declare competent have met one and other.

In the kitchen with the daily dish, very different proceeding. A woman carefully and home will have
what is wise, go to the pantry, give orders, but the actual cooking left entirely to the care of
the cook. From here it lapsed art. Cordovan cuisine was certainly original and great. Today is
a ruin, as the palace of Medina Azahara and Almunia lovely gardens. Only a few traces remain, giving
signals, which are like relics of past greatness, remains a skilled
cook archaeologist could restore Dog and restored the ancient monuments
of Rome.

It would need a technical expertise that I lack, to characterize the cuisine here in Cordoba,
excellent, though ruined, and to define and distinguish it from other kitchens diverse peoples,
languages ​​and tribes of the globe.

The reader will forgive me almost profane to speak on this important
matter.

I believe that, without underestimating the French cuisine, private
and prevails today in the world, there remains as rooted in Cordoba,
which should not be underestimated.

Who knows whether they will still OPIM denatured fruits without grafts,
but retaining the castizo be having?

Beans, despite the anathema of Pythagoras, that perhaps condemned
as an aphrodisiac, are the main food of the peasants in my home.

The stew that prepare them, called ultimate kitchen is delicious. I doubt that the more scientific
French chef, without further than beans, oil, cloudy, cloudy arch-vinegar, pepper, salt and
water, can make something so rich as that cooking beans prepared by any woman in Cordoba. The
gazpacho, the garlic-white and gazpacho, I say the same, will be bad, make a thousand faces
and fussiness ladies Madrid if you eat, but take the ingredients, combine them, and we'll see
if they produce something better.

Moreover, the gazpacho, within the tight rustiqueza bread,

And the
red peppers and garlic hard

that mainly consists, must pass through
fine arts creation of delight on especially if it has been well beaten
by strong and long cuffs and a wide trough.

As the gazpacho, healthy in hot weather and after the harvest chores,
and has something classical and poetic.

    Gazpacho was nothing more than what, according to Virgil, in the
second Eclogue, Testilis preparing for entertainment and refreshment
of the weary reapers

Allia, serpyllumque, Herba contundit olentes.

Let's talk about the pot, stew, cochifrito, garlic chicken and other dishes, not having Cordoba
different character than in other Andalusian provinces. Just say something in defense the alboronía,
for having made fun of her a keen writer, my friend, and for providing
us modern science a means to justify and even to prove, or to trace
at least the old Cordoba kitchen was a kitchen almost aristocratic
or royal, who has been degenerating.

    Sage Dozy Orientalist shows that the inventor of the alboronía, or
who gave it its name, was Sultana nothing less than the Boran, beautiful,
distinguished and comm'il faut among all Princesses East.

Perhaps the creator of the alboronía dedicated his invention to the Sultana, as do Today the
most famous chefs, devoting her cooking and assigned the name of some illustrious character. Thus
there is the Chateaubriand steak, salmon Chambord, and other seasonings the Soubisse, the Bismarck, the
Thiers, the Empress, the Queen and Pius IX. To more concise name deleted from the stew and it is
only the glorious character; where anyone eats a Pius IX or Chateaubriand, without incurring cannibalism.

Without
doubt, and, given the irrefutable assertion of Dozy, the alboronía comes from the Sultana Boran,
cake and maimones maimón, which are a way of soups, must come of Califa, Boran aforementioned
husband, whose name was Maimon, since it does not come from the great philosopher Jewish Maimonides
was Cordoba, and compatriot, therefore, the maimones, soup, cake and bun.

Force is to confess, despite the above, that these things have been perverted. They are like
proverbs, they were statements of the ancient sages and have come to abasement, or as some
families of clear lineage, which have fallen into poverty, low and
dark.

Pity is, of course, that this happens; as the first elements are fine for cooking in the province
of Cordoba.

Among the rock rose, tamarisk, mastic and durum, the thickness of the craggy mountains, shaded
of the tall pines and oaks copudos, courageous run wild boars and
roe deer and deer light: across the fertile countryside abound hare,
rabbit, partridge and even the big ssion, and all kinds of pigeons
from the dove to zurita.

As soon begins to blacks and mature olives, thrushes come from Africa, curdling the air with animated
clouds. The goldfinch the oriole, the old man and the green happy with their songs of spring love.
The large Guadalquivir gives huge buttery shad and pike, and frog legs are soft and eels all the
rivers and streams.

Would proceed if I tell here infinite products the plant kingdom, the Flora of the land beloved
of heaven, on which, as popular conviction and strong belief, is vertically placed at the zenith,
the throne the Holy Trinity. Suffice to know that the thousand or so gardens are a paradise Cabra.
There if it was even fashionable mythology, we might say he put his throne Pomona, and extending
in this, and without the slightest hyperbole, either add that Palestine has its throne in the
chapels, Ceres in the fields which extend between Baena and Valenzuela, and Bacchus in his Moriles
which surpasses all the wine of Jerez.

The Cordoba looks with disdain all this, or because it is common and does not give money or by its
spiritualism delicate. However, some women are careful to look rich fruit and other rare acclimate
so far in those regions, such as strawberries and raspberries. Cordoba also usually have a well
populated poultry chickens, ducks and turkeys, which she feeding and fattening itself, and it does
look, though rarely, the tiger out of tune and chicken of Guinea. The pheasant is still an animal
for my countrywomen as fabulous as the phoenix, bicípite tap or the eagle.

Which looks real and is primarily the management of Cordoba is inside the house. The verses in
which Schiller praised his countrywomen, could a fortiori apply to mine. German is not that described
by the great poet is the mother of my province or my place

Him in the kingdom that sends prudent; Restrain the child and the child instructed, Never for
laborious hand, Whose ordered tino In rich flow increased reflows.

How is busy! How from the dawn of the barn is the winery, and cellar to the pantry! I glimpse
the lower web and makes the point that the sweep, if not sweep herself! How to clean the dust from
all furniture! With what care up in the closet or saved in the ark or the clean comfortable
bed and table linen, perfumed with lavender!

      She overboard with delicacy, and never
    forgets a thousand stitches, lace, hems
    and green beans that in the crumb
    taught him, and he
    did and met a rich sampler, which remains a sweet memory.

It is not linen shirt or cotton do not check or sock which does not overshadow and collect points,
Darn tear or not, or not mend broken. If rich, she and her husband and her children are always
neat and well dressed. If he is poor, the Sundays and major holidays ark out of the bottom
of the well-preserved galas: Manila shawl or shawl, rich saya and blanket for her, and her husband
a shirt embroidered with birds and flowers, white Snow, a velvet waistcoat, a strip of red
or yellow silk, a Marseille patched some chaps with double silver buttonwood and crutch, and a neatly
embroidered boots Silk in the well tanned calf. Above all this, to go to church or any other ceremony
or visit fulfilled my countryman becomes the layer. It would be a lack of decorum, almost in
contempt, presented without her even point the thermometer thirty degrees of heat. Indeed, coating,
as every garment cut and ruddy, the person pays a certain extent, and dignity, solemnity.
This is not to say that in my land should not be abused layer. I remember a doctor who visited
us in place, when I was child, who never abandons us, was wrapped in it and not blatant even to take
the pulse, taking him for top of her veil. It is clear that he is not removed layer never less took
off his hat, but on very solemn occasions. Man is neither sleep is taken away, bringing to the face
to defend it from the sun or light, if he sleeps outdoor nap, and it leads to the rubble or neck,
holding with hand to greet the people most respect and deference I deserve. But back our Cordoba.

Strives
poor or rich, as I said, at home. In some rooms there is already papered, but the common thing the
enjalbiego, which will be rude and rustic if you like, but rejoices with whiteness and gives every
appearance of cleanliness. The same love, if he is poor, if not the maid, enjalbiega often throughout
the house, including the facade. This mania reached such a whitewash end, a lady from my place,
some years ago, whitewashed his piano, the first arrived there. There are now many good, even
rosewood, and the dozens ladies and girls who play and sing.
 We circled the cathedral again,
and saw what pavement-stones can do against their own city, when the shell jerks them upward.
But there was singing after all--on the other side of a little door in the flank of the cathedral.
We looked in, doubting, and saw at least a hundred folk, mostly women, who knelt before the
altar of an unwrecked chapel.  We withdrew quietly from that holy ground, and it was not only
the eyes of the French officers that filled with tears.  Then there came an old, old thing
with a prayer-book in her hand, pattering across the square, evidently late for service.

"And who are those women?" I asked.

"Some are caretakers; people who have still little shops here. (There is one quarter where
you can buy things.)  There are many old people, too, who will not go away.  They are of the
place, you see."

"And this bombardment happens often?" I said.

"It happens always.  Would you like to look at the railway station?  Of course, it has not
been so bombarded as the cathedral."

We went through the gross nakedness of streets without people, till we reached the railway
station, which was very fairly knocked about, but, as my friends said, nothing like as much
as the cathedral.  Then we had to cross the end of a long street down which the Boche could
see clearly.  As one glanced up it, one perceived how the weeds, to whom men's war is the truce
of God, had come back and were well established the whole length of it, watched by the long
perspective of open, empty windows.

II

THE NATION'S SPIRIT AND A NEW INHERITANCE

We left that stricken but undefeated town, dodged a few miles down the roads beside which the
women tended their cows, and dropped into a place on a hill where a Moroccan regiment of many
experiences was in billets.

They were Mohammedans bafflingly like half a dozen of our Indian frontier types, though they
spoke no accessible tongue. They had, of course, turned the farm buildings where they lay into
a little bit of Africa in colour and smell.  They had been gassed in the north; shot over and
shot down, and set up to be shelled again; and their officers talked of North African wars
that we had never heard of--sultry days against long odds in the desert years ago.  "Afterward--is
it not so with you also?--we get our best recruits from the tribes we have fought.  These men
are children.  They make no trouble. They only want to go where cartridges are burnt.  They
are of the few races to whom fighting is a pleasure."

"And how long have you dealt with them?"

"A long time--a long time.  I helped to organize the corps.  I am one of those whose heart
is in Africa."  He spoke slowly, almost feeling for his French words, and gave some order.
I shall not forget his eyes as he turned to a huge, brown, Afreedee-like Mussulman hunkering
down beside his accoutrements.  He had two sides to his head, that bearded, burned, slow-spoken
officer, met and parted with in an hour.

The day closed--(after an amazing interlude in the chateau of a dream, which was all glassy
ponds, stately trees, and vistas of white and gold saloons.  The proprietor was somebody's
chauffeur at the front, and we drank to his excellent health) --at a little village in a twilight
full of the petrol of many cars and the wholesome flavour of healthy troops.  There is no better
guide to camp than one's own thoughtful nose; and though I poked mine everywhere, in no place
then or later did it strike that vile betraying taint of underfed, unclean men. And the same
with the horses.

THE LINE THAT NEVER SLEEPS

It is difficult to keep an edge after hours of fresh air and experiences; so one does not get
the most from the most interesting part of the day--the dinner with the local headquarters.
Here the professionals meet--the Line, the Gunners, the Intelligence with stupefying photo-plans
of the enemy's trenches; the Supply; the Staff, who collect and note all things, and are very
properly chaffed; and, be sure, the Interpreter, who, by force of questioning prisoners, naturally
develops into a Sadducee.  It is their little asides to each other, the slang, and the half-words
which, if one understood, instead of blinking drowsily at one's plate, would give the day's
history in little.  But tire and the difficulties of a sister (not a foreign) tongue cloud
everything, and one goes to billets amid a murmur of voices, the rush of single cars through
the night, the passage of battalions, and behind it all, the echo of the deep voices calling
one to the other, along the line that never sleeps.

.    .    .    .    .    .    .

The ridge with the scattered pines might have hidden children at play.  Certainly a horse would
have been quite visible, but there was no hint of guns, except a semaphore which announced
it was forbidden to pass that way, as the battery was firing. The Boches must have looked for
that battery, too.  The ground was pitted with shell holes of all calibres--some of them as
fresh as mole-casts in the misty damp morning; others where the poppies had grown from seed
to flower all through the summer.

"And where are the guns?" I demanded at last.

They were almost under one's hand, their ammunition in cellars and dug-outs beside them.  As
far as one can make out, the 75 gun has no pet name.  The bayonet is Rosalie the virgin of
Bayonne, but the 75, the watchful nurse of the trenches and little sister of the Line, seems
to be always "soixante- quinze."  Even those who love her best do not insist that she is beautiful.
Her merits are French--logic, directness, simplicity, and the supreme gift of "occasionality."
She is equal to everything on the spur of the moment.  One sees and studies the few appliances
which make her do what she does, and one feels that any one could have invented her.

FAMOUS FRENCH 75's

"As a matter of fact," says a commandant, "anybody--or, rather, everybody did.  The general
idea is after such-and-such system, the patent of which had expired, and we improved it; the
breech action, with slight modification, is somebody else's; the sighting is perhaps a little
special; and so is the traversing, but, at bottom, it is only an assembly of variations and
arrangements."

That, of course, is all that Shakespeare ever got out of the alphabet.  The French Artillery
make their own guns as he made his plays.  It is just as simple as that.

"There is nothing going on for the moment; it's too misty," said the Commandant.  (I fancy
that the Boche, being, as a rule methodical, amateurs are introduced to batteries in the Boche's
intervals.  At least, there are hours healthy and unhealthy which vary with each position.)
"But," the Commandant reflected a moment, "there is a place--and a distance.  Let us say  .
.  .  "  He gave a range.

The gun-servers stood back with the bored contempt of the professional for the layman who intrudes
on his mysteries. Other civilians had come that way before--had seen, and grinned, and complimented
and gone their way, leaving the gunners high up on the bleak hillside to grill or mildew or
freeze for weeks and months.  Then she spoke.  Her voice was higher pitched, it seemed, than
ours--with a more shrewish tang to the speeding shell.  Her recoil was as swift and as graceful
as the shrug of a French-woman's shoulders; the empty case leaped forth and clanged against
the trail; the tops of two or three pines fifty yards away nodded knowingly to each other,
though there was no wind.

"They'll be bothered down below to know the meaning of our single shot.  We don't give them
one dose at a time as a rule," somebody laughed.

We waited in the fragrant silence.  Nothing came back from the mist that clogged the lower
grounds, though no shell of this war was ever launched with more earnest prayers that it might
do hurt.

Then they talked about the lives of guns; what number of rounds some will stand and others
will not; how soon one can make two good guns out of three spoilt ones, and what crazy luck
sometimes goes with a single shot or a blind salvo.

LESSON FROM THE "BOCHE"

A shell must fall somewhere, and by the law of averages occasionally lights straight as a homing
pigeon on the one spot where it can wreck most.  Then earth opens for yards around, and men
must be dug out,--some merely breathless, who shake their ears, swear, and carry on, and others
whose souls have gone loose among terrors.  These have to be dealt with as their psychology
demands, and the French officer is a good psychologist.  One of them said:  "Our national psychology
has changed.  I do not recognize it myself."

"What made the change?"

"The Boche.  If he had been quiet for another twenty years the world must have been his--rotten,
but all his.  Now he is saving the world."

"How?"

"Because he has shown us what Evil is.  We--you and I, England and the rest--had begun to doubt
the existence of Evil.  The Boche is saving us."

Then we had another look at the animal in its trench--a little nearer this time than before,
and quieter on account of the mist.  Pick up the chain anywhere you please, you shall find
the same observation-post, table, map, observer, and telephonist; the same always-hidden, always-ready
guns; and same vexed foreshore of trenches, smoking and shaking from Switzerland to the sea.
The handling of the war varies with the nature of the country, but the tools are unaltered.
One looks upon them at last with the same weariness of wonder as the eye receives from endless
repetitions of Egyptian hieroglyphics.  A long, low profile, with a lump to one side, means
the field-gun and its attendant ammunition-case; a circle and slot stand for an observation-post;
the trench is a bent line, studded with vertical plumes of explosion; the great guns of position,
coming and going on their motors, repeat themselves as scarabs; and man himself is a small
blue smudge, no larger than a foresight, crawling and creeping or watching and running among
all these terrific symbols.

TRAGEDY OF RHEIMS

But there is no hieroglyphic for Rheims, no blunting of the mind at the abominations committed
on the cathedral there. The thing peers upward, maimed and blinded, from out of the utter wreckage
of the Archbishop's palace on the one side and dust-heaps of crumbled houses on the other.
They shelled, as they still shell it, with high explosives and with incendiary shells, so that
the statues and the stonework in places are burned the colour of raw flesh.  The gargoyles
are smashed; statues, crockets, and spires tumbled; walls split and torn; windows thrust out
and tracery obliterated. 

The dummy

Nine years had passed since Louis Santurce was separated from his wife. After he had been involved in
silk and tulle at the bottom of elegant carriage, passing before him in a flash beauty, or had
guessed from the paradise of Real, down there in a box, surrounded
of men who were fighting the murmuring something in her ear to show
off an intimacy smiling.

These events removed in all the sediment of the last wrath had fled forever his wife as a patient
who fears the resurgence of their ailments, and yet, now would to
meet, to see it and speak it at the hotel de la Castellana, which
was insolent luxury the witness of his disgrace.

The rough movements rental car seemed to blow past memories from all corners of his memory. That life
did not want to remember, was developing with your eyes closed: their honeymoon modest employee
married to a beautiful woman, educated, daughter of a family fallen on hard times, the joy
of that first year of poverty sweetened by affection, then tossing Enriqueta protests against the
narrowness, the deaf displeasure at being called beautiful by all and be humbly dressed, the troubles
emerging for the slightest reason, the brawls at midnight in the marital bedroom, the gnawing
suspicion Gradually confidence husband, and suddenly the unexpected rise, material wealth slipping
through the door, timidly at first, and avoiding the scandal, then insolent display, as believing
enter a world of blind people, until they finally Louis had the unquestionable proof of his misfortune.
He was ashamed to remember his weakness. It was not a coward was sure of it, but lacked the will
or loved him too, and therefore, when after an embarrassing intelligence was convinced of his
disgrace, he knew only raise the clenched hand that beautiful doll face pale, and ended up
not strike a blow. Only had the strength to throw the house and mourn
as an abandoned child just closed the door.

Then complete solitude, the monotony of isolation, interrupted by news that they hurt. His wife
was traveling through central Europe as a princess, a millionaire had released, this was their very
existence, for what he was born. A winter call attention in Paris newspapers spoke of the beautiful
Spanish; their triumphs on the beaches were noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her,
and several duels and certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.
After three year would be triumphant, returned to Madrid, its beauty enhanced by the strange
charm of cosmopolitanism. Now protect the richest businessman in Spain, and in his splendid
court ruled on a hotel only for men: ministers, bankers, political
influence, characters of all classes who sought his smile as the best
of his decorations.

So great was his power, until Luis believed to feel around him, seeing that political situations
were happening without being touched their jobs. The fear to fight for the sustaining life
made him accept this situation, in which sensed the hidden hand Harriet. Solo and sentenced to
work for a living, I felt, however, the shame of wretch whose only claim to be the husband of a
beautiful woman.

Was worthless running away when its path, insolent and triumphant in his disgrace, to escape
persecution those eyes that were fixed on him with surprise, pride of women losing their coveted.

One
day he received a visit from an old priest and timid-looking, the same who now sat with him in the
car. He was the confessor of his wife. Well had learned to choose! A man kind, short-sighted.
When you say who sent him, Luis could not contain himself: "Valiente such, 'and let the insult
round. But the good old imperturbable as he brings learned discourse and are afraid to forget if it is
slow release, he spoke of Magdalena sinful, the Lord that being who he was, had forgiven him
and passing to the plain style and natural, had transformation suffered by Harriet. I was sick,
barely out of his hotel, a disease that gnawed her womb, a cancer that had to be tamed with
continuous injections of morphine for did not faint and roar of pain
with his cruel scratches.

Misfortune had have turned their eyes to God repented of the past, wanted to see ...

And he, the cowardly man, jumped with joy on hearing this, weak with satisfaction that is avenged.
A cancer! ... The luxury damn rotting inside her, making her die in life! And always so beautiful,
right? What sweet revenge! ... No, not go to see it.

It was useless arguments that seek healing. Could visit whenever he wanted and give news of
his wife: that he was very happy and now understand why men are bad.

Since then the priest visited him almost every evening, smoking a few cigars, speaking of Harriet,
and sometimes went out together, walking on the outskirts of Madrid old friends.

The disease progressed rapidly convinced that Harriet was going to die. Wanted him to beg his
forgiveness, calling it a tone of whimsical and ill child requiring a toy. To the other, the powerful
protector, gentle disposition despite his omnipotence, he begged the priest to take them to the
hotel to the husband of Harriet. The good old man spoke with fervor of the conversion touching the
lady, although admitting that the cursed estate, loss of so many souls, still dominated. Her illness
was a prisoner in her home, but at times of calm, when the rogue pain did not go back and forth
like crazy, flipping through catalogs and figurines in Paris, wrote to its suppliers there, and
rare was the week that did not reach drawers with the latest news: costumes, hats and jewelry,
after targeted and hands a day in the closed room, fell into the
corners or hiding forever in closets, and useless toys.

For all these fads going the other, provided to see Harriet smiling.

These confidences were continuing to slowly penetrate Luis in the
life of his wife was by far the course of their disease and not a
day passed without rozase with that mentally being, we had departed
forever.

A priest was later presented with unusual energy. This lady was in the past, we called aloud,
was a crime to deny the last consolation to a dying, and he does not consented. He felt able
to take it by force.

Luis, defeated by the will of the old, left Drag and got into a car, mentally insulting, but no strength
to back ... Coward! Coward forever!

In pursuit of the black cassock crossed the garden of the hotel many
times, going by the immediate walk, had spied with looks of hate ...
And now, nothing, no hate or pain: a strong sense curiosity, like
entering unknown country, savoring the wonders ahead he expects to
see.

Inside the hotel the same feeling of curiosity and wonder. Ah, wretch! How often in dreams of
his will impotent, was seen entering the house as a husband drama, gun in hand to kill his
unfaithful wife, and destroying afterwards, as a wild beast, expensive furniture, rich draperies,
fluffy carpet! And now tenderness he felt under his feet, the beautiful colors by sliding his eyes,
the flowers that greeted him with her perfume from the corners, an intoxication causábanle eunuch
and felt impulses to lie in that furniture, to take possession, as if he belonged, being of his
wife. Now he understood what was wealth, and how hard hung over their slaves. Was already on
the first floor, and had not even seen, in the solemn quiet hotel,
none of these details is revealed in death as they enter a home.

Saw as impassive mask reared after thought he saw a gesture of insolent curiosity: a girl greeted
him with enigmatic smile, it was not known whether it was sympathy or mockery "The husband of the
lady", he believed distinguished in an adjoining room a man who was
hiding (Maybe it was the other), and stunned by this new world, went
through a door, gently pushed for his guidance.

Was in the bedroom of the lady: a room engulfed in soft shadows, ripping a strip of sun filtering
through a balcony ajar.

In the midst of this beam of light was a straight woman, slender,
pink, dressed in a beautiful soirée dress, the pearly emerging from
behind clouds of lace, and chest and head with the dazzling sparkle
of the jewels.

Luis back amazed, protesting the farce. "That was the sick? Had he been called to insult?

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned behind him a weak voice, with intonation and gentle child, reminding
him the past, the best moments of his life.

His eyes, already accustomed to the darkness, saw in the back of the room something monumental
and terrible as an altar, a bed stands, and which, under the undulating curtains, incorporating work
was a white figure.

Then he noticed the motionless woman, who seemed to wait with her
slender stiff and his eyes of vague look like blurred by tears.

It was a mannequin art bore some resemblance with Harriet.

The best served to consider developments that continuously received Paris. It was the only actor in
the representations of elegance and wealth that was given alone a remedy for his illness.

- Luis ... Luis !...-- groaned again the little voice from the bottom
of the bed.

Sadly it was Luis to her to be grasped by arms that tightened convulsively
and feel a burning mouth seeking hers, imploring forgiveness, while
a cheek received the warm touch of tears.

- Say you forgive me, say
it, Luis, and I may not die.

And the husband, who instinctively tried to repel it, ended up throwing
themselves into those arms, unwittingly repeating the same loving
words of the happy times.

To his eyes, accustomed to the darkness, was dialed with every detail of his wife's face.

- Luis, Luis mine! - She said smiling through tears -. How do I find? And I'm not as beautiful as
in our times of happiness ... when I still was not crazy. Tell me
God! tell me what you look like.

Her husband looked at her in amazement. Beautiful, always beautiful, her beauty and innocent
child that made it so scary.

The death was not yet there: only between the soft perfume Sovereign of the meat of this majestic
bed, seemed to slip a subtle and distant mist of dead, which gave away the rotting interior mixing
in her kisses.

Luis divined the presence of someone behind him.

A man was walking distance, contemplating with a confused expression, as if drawn there by a superior
boost to the will that he was ashamed. Harriet's husband knew, on average nationwide, the stern
face of that man and entered years, a man of sound principles, great defender of public morals.

-
Tell him to go, Luis! - Cried the sick -.

What does that man there? I just want you you ... I just want my
husband.

Forgive me ... was luxury, luxury damned: I needed money, a lot of money, but love ... just
you.

Cried Henrietta showing his repentance, and the man wept, weak and
humble with contempt.

Luis, who had so often thought of him with fits of anger, and had been seeing him impulses to
throw around his neck, finally looking at him with sympathy and respect.

We also loved her! And the community on affection rather than repel, linking the husband and
the other with sympathy strange.

- Let him go, let her go - repeating the sick with a stubborn child.

And her husband watched the powerful man with pleading, as if asking forgiveness for his wife,
not knowing what he said.

- Come on, Mrs. Henrietta - said from the back of the room the voice of the priest -. Think in herself
and in God does not commit the sin of pride.

The two men, the husband and the guard, ended up sitting by the bedside of the sick. The pain
was roaring, we had to give frequent injections, and the two went solicitous their care. Several
times he stumbled his hands to incorporate Harriet, not separated instinctive revulsion, but rather,
helped with effusion fraternal.

Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million, and
that his wife was crying even more than him.

At night, when the patient rested under the action of morphine, the two men, imbued by that evening
of suffering, talking quietly, but his words seeming less remote hint of hatred. Were as brothers
reconciled by love.

Harriet died at dawn repeating, "Sorry! Sorry! "But his last look was not for the husband.
That beautiful bird took wing brainless forever caressing with mannequin
eyes eternal smile and glassy eyes, the idol of the estate, which
stood near hollow head balcony, on which, with infernal glow, sparkling
diamonds, wounded by the bluish light of dawn.

The paella "Roder"

It was a holiday for the district head of the sudden visit of the deputy, matron Madrid, so powerful
for those good people, who spoke of him as the Holy Providence. There was great paella in the
garden of the mayor, a gargantuan feast, entertained by the town band and referred to all women
and children, who peered curious behind the walls.

The flower of the district was there: the priests of four or five villages, as the deputy was defender
of order and sound principles, the mayors and all that in times beadle choice trotting on the
roads bringing Don José minutes unscathed for blemished his white virginity to monster figures.

Among
the new gowns and party dresses smelling of camphor and the folds of the ark stood out lenses
majestic gold and black tuxedo deputy, but despite all its pomposity, Providence district barely
attracted attention.

All eyes were for a man in corduroy trousers and black headscarf, lean, tanned, strong jaws, and
beside him a heavy shorty, not changing without wearing seat behind
him the old gun, which looked like a stick of his body.

It was the famous Quico Baggins, the hero of the district, a thirty-year Roder exploits the
I looked at young people with almost superstitious terror, recalling
his childhood, when mothers told to hush, "Coming Baggins!"

At twenty he knocked down two matters of love, and then to mount with the shorty, to make Roder's
life, the knight errant of the mountains.

More than forty processes were suspended, waiting to be good enough to be caught. But was it good!
Jumping like a goat knew every corner of the mountain, was based on a coin shot in the air, and the Guard
civil, tired of fruitless wanderings, they will cease to see.

Thief ... never. Knight had his outbursts, eating on the mountain which gave him for admiration or
fear of the farmhouses, and if he was a thief in the district, soon
reached your shorty, he had his honesty and theft did not want to
pay others.

Blood ... yes, even elbows. To him a man worth less than a stone path, this beast used masterfully
all sorts of killing the enemy with bullets, with knife, face to face if they had guts to go after him,
waiting and ambushed, if they were so wary and cunning like him.

Out of jealousy had been suppressing the other roders who infested the mountains, in the roads,
one today and another tomorrow, had murdered former enemies, and
often fell to people on Sunday to leave lying on the square, leaving
the mass, mayors or influential owners.

And did not bother him or chasing him. Political passion killed by men who barely knew to ensure
the triumph of Don José, eternal district representative.

The beast was without realizing it, a large polyp claw waving electoral Far on the Ministry of the
Interior.

He lived in a nearby village, married to the woman who drove him to kill first, surrounded of
children, paternal, benevolent and smoking cigars with the Civil
Guard, who obeyed orders higher as a result of an exploit had to pretend
to be chasing him, he spent some days hunting in the mountains, good
pulse entertaining shooter.

We had to see how he cared for the gifted, and notable district paella.

"Baggins this piece of chicken; Baggins, a drink of wine.

"Even the priests, laughing with a ho ho! bondadosote, patted him on the back, saying paternally:
"Oh Bolsonet, how bad you are!"

He was held by that party. Only because he had stopped at the head of the district Jose majestic
on his way to Valencia. I wanted to reassure and to cease in their
complaints, increasingly alarming.

As a reward for their abuses in the elections, had promised him a
pardon, and Baggins he was old and longed to live peacefully as a
farmer honored, obeyed the Lord Almighty believing in his rudeness
that every outrage, every crime, accelerating their forgiveness.

But years passed, it was all promises, and Roder, firmly believing in the omnipotence deputy,
contempt or neglect blamed on the delay of a pardon.

Submission trocose a threat, and Don José felt the fear of the trainer to the beast that is
rebels. The Roder wrote to Madrid every week with a threatening tone. And these letters, scribbled
by brute bloody paw, eventually haunt him by forcing to leave the
district.

You had to see them after the paella, talking in a corner of the garden,
the deputy, obsequious and friendly.

Baggins, frowning and moody.

- I came just to see - said Don José, stressing the honor accorded
him by his visit -.

But what is the rush? Are not you well, dear Quico? I have recommended to the Governor the province,
the Civil Guard says nothing ... What do you need?

Anything and everything. It really did not mind, but it was uncertain, could change times and going
back to Mt. He wanted what was promised a pardon, recordóns! And formulated their claim as soon
as Valencian pronunciation in Castilian unintelligible.

- You got it, man, you will.

Is in the offing, one of these will be.

Baggins smiled with cruel irony. It was not as gross as I thought. Had consulted a lawyer Valencia,
who had laughed at him and pardon.

Had to be caught, charged with patient two or three hundred years that could sprout in numerous
judgments they had extinguished a part of prison, as they say in a hundred years, could come on that
pardon. Recrystallization! Just kidding: it is not mocked.

Deputy flinch seeing almost lost confidence Roder.

- That lawyer is ignorant.

Do you think the government is impossible? Has sentences come out soon, I swear.

And she emptied her talk, she loved with her talk, knowing the power house talkative skills
upon his head dusky.

Roder regained confidence little by little on the Member. Expected, but a month only. If after
this period did not come for pardon, not write, no more bother. He was a MP, a gentleman,
but the bullets only men.

And leave with this threat, required shorty and greeted the entire
meeting. Back to his people wanted to take the afternoon, because
men like him are only the roads at night when needed.

He was accompanied
by the butcher of his people, a fine fellow admirer of his strength
and skill, a satellite followed him everywhere.

The deputy fired
them with kindness feline.

- Farewell, dear Quico - shaking hands
said Roder -. Quiet, will leave soon penalties. They are good your
kids: and tell your wife that I still remember how well I tried when
I was in your house.

The Roder and his assistant sat in the tartan
of his people, three neighbors who greeted Quico Sinor with affection
and a few little boys who passed his hands through his loaded shorty
like a holy image.

The tartan advanced tumbling down among the orange
groves, orange blossom-laden. Ditches sparkled, reflecting the gentle
afternoon sun, and spent the warm space breath of spring impregnated
with perfumes and rumors.

Baggins was happy. A hundred times he had
been promised a pardon, but now it was for real. His Squire fan and
heard him quiet.

Were on the road a couple of the Civil Guard, and
greeted her amicably Baggins.

In a revolt appeared a second pair,
and the butcher Hastened away in his chair as if he puncture. There
were many couples in such a short path. The Roder reassured him. Had
concentrated the strength of the district by the journey of Don José.

But
just beyond the third pair found that, as above, followed slowly the
carriage, and the butcher could not contain himself. That he smelled
bad. Baggins, there was still time! A down right away, to flee across
the fields to win the mountain. If nothing was going with him could
return home at night.

- Yes, Sinor Quico, yes - said the frightened
women.

But Sinor Quico laughed at the fear of those people.

- Arrea,
Tartaneros ... rhea.

And the trap went on, until suddenly jumped
into the road fifteen or twenty guards a tag with an old three-cornered
hats official front. Through the windows came the mouths of the guns
pointed at Roder, who remained motionless and calm, while women and
screaming kids were thrown to the bottom of the carriage.

- Baggins,
low, or we'll kill you - said the lieutenant.

Roder lowered with
its satellite, before setting foot on land they had taken their weapons.
Even he was impressed by the talk of their protector, and no thought
of making resistance not preclude his famous clemency to a new crime.

He
called the butcher, begging him to run to the village to warn Don
José.  We've only a metre of snow, and
it doesn't lie, except when you are hauling guns up mountains.  Then, of course, it drifts
and freezes like Davos.  That's our new railway below there.  Pity it's too misty to see the view."

But for his medals, there was nothing in the Governor to show that he was not English.  He
might have come straight from an Indian frontier command.

One notices this approximation of type in the higher ranks, and many of the juniors are cut
out of the very same cloth as ours.  They get whatever fun may be going:  their performances
are as incredible and outrageous as the language in which they describe them afterward is bald,
but convincing, and--I overheard the tail-end of a yarn told by a child of twenty to some other
babes.  It was veiled in the obscurity of the French tongue, and the points were lost in shouts
of laughter --but I imagine the subaltern among his equals displays just as much reverence
for his elders and betters as our own boys do. The epilogue, at least, was as old as both Armies:

"And what did he say then?"

"Oh, the usual thing.  He held his breath till I thought he'd burst.  Then he damned me in
heaps, and I took good care to keep out of his sight till next day."

But officially and in the high social atmosphere of Headquarters their manners and their meekness
are of the most admirable.  There they attend devoutly on the wisdom of their seniors, who
treat them, so it seemed, with affectionate confidence.

FRONT THAT NEVER SLEEPS

When the day's reports are in, all along the front, there is a man, expert in the meaning of
things, who boils them down for that cold official digest which tells us that "There was the
usual grenade fighting at------.  We made appreciable advance at------," &c.  The original
material comes in sheaves and sheaves, where individual character and temperament have full
and amusing play.  It is reduced for domestic consumption like an overwhelming electric current.
Otherwise we could not take it in.  But at closer range one realizes that the Front never sleeps;
never ceases from trying new ideas and weapons which, so soon as the Boche thinks he has mastered
them, are discarded for newer annoyances and bewilderments.

"The Boche is above all things observant and imitative," said one who counted quite a few Boches
dead on the front of his sector.  "When you present him with a new idea, he thinks it over
for a day or two.  Then he presents his riposte."

"Yes, my General.  That was exactly what he did to me when I --did so and so.  He was quite
silent for a day.  Then--he stole my patent."

"And you?"

"I had a notion that he'd do that, so I had changed the specification."

Thus spoke the Staff, and so it is among the junior commands, down to the semi-isolated posts
where boy-Napoleons live on their own, through unbelievable adventures.  They are inventive
young devils, these veterans of 21, possessed of the single ideal--to kill--which they follow
with men as single-minded as themselves.  Battlefield tactics do not exist; when a whole nation
goes to ground there can be none of the "victories" of the old bookish days.  But there is
always the killing--the well-schemed smashing of a full trench, the rushing out and the mowing
down of its occupants; the unsuspicious battalion far in the rear, located after two nights'
extreme risk alone among rubbish of masonry, and wiped out as it eats or washes itself; and,
more rarely, the body to body encounter with animals removed from the protection of their machinery,
when the bayonets get their chance.  The Boche does not at all like meeting men whose womenfolk
he has dishonoured or mutilated, or used as a protection against bullets.  It is not that these
men are angry or violent.  They do not waste time in that way.  They kill him.

THE BUSINESS OF WAR

The French are less reticent than we about atrocities committed by the Boche, because those
atrocities form part of their lives.  They are not tucked away in reports of Commissions, and
vaguely referred to as "too awful."  Later on, perhaps, we shall be unreserved in our turn.
But they do not talk of them with any babbling heat or bleat or make funny little appeals to
a "public opinion" that, like the Boche, has gone underground.  It occurs to me that this must
be because every Frenchman has his place and his chance, direct or indirect, to diminish the
number of Boches still alive. Whether he lies out in a sandwich of damp earth, or sweats the
big guns up the crests behind the trees, or brings the fat, loaded barges into the very heart
of the city, where the shell-wagons wait, or spends his last crippled years at the harvest,
he is doing his work to that end.

If he is a civilian he may--as he does--say things about his Government, which, after all,
is very like other popular governments.  (A lifetime spent in watching how the cat jumps does
not make lion-tamers.)  But there is very little human rubbish knocking about France to hinder
work or darken counsel.  Above all, there is a thing called the Honour of Civilization, to
which France is attached.  The meanest man feels that he, in his place, is permitted to help
uphold it, and, I think, bears himself, therefore, with new dignity. Directed the consciousness of most of them and
authorizing the lecture them out of the confessional, sometimes harshly. Almost all received submit
your corrections with, even with pleasure, and if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness
immediately. With this, Don Narciso was the guest required in all Gaudeamus parties and fashionable
society Peñascosa, ate voraciously, and this made boast, drank the same tenor, and when the
desserts arrived, never failed to provide any coplita that was almost always dirty. Because D.
Narcissus, who because of his ministry not be authorized jokes concerning sex sex relationships
are entitled to believe drop the most nasty about other miseries of the human body.


Somehow, I can't imagine the Marechal des Logis killing babies--even if his superior officer,
now sketching the scene, were to order him!

.    .    .    .    .    .    .

The great building must once have been a monastery.  Twilight softened its gaunt wings, in
an angle of which were collected fifty prisoners, picked up among the hills behind the mists.

They stood in some sort of military formation preparatory to being marched off.  They were
dressed in khaki, the colour of gassed grass, that might have belonged to any army.  Two wore
spectacles, and I counted eight faces of the fifty which were asymmetrical--out of drawing
on one side.

"Some of their later drafts give us that type," said the Interpreter.  One of them had been
wounded in the head and roughly bandaged.  The others seemed all sound.  Most of them looked
at nothing, but several were vividly alive with terror that cannot keep the eyelids still,
and a few wavered on the grey edge of collapse.

They were the breed which, at the word of command, had stolen out to drown women and children;
had raped women in the streets at the word of command; and, always at the word of command,
had sprayed petrol, or squirted flame; or defiled the property and persons of their captives.
They stood there outside all humanity.  Yet they were made in the likeness of humanity.  One
realized it with a shock when the bandaged creature began to shiver, and they shuffled off
in response to the orders of civilized men. Looked down on the clerics who sought introducing
them and took care of the dress and grooming. Tolerated them because they knew they were supported
by the bishop and the higher clergy of the diocese, but laughed at them at all times in a manner
rude, irritating, and I used them a few tricks malignant spoil any of those mystic revelry that
put more effort. We tried, for example, to hold a communion general girls with orchestral accompaniment.
The day was marked, D. Miguel sent the church with a gang of carpenters who were placed to fix
the platform with horrendous hammer, preventing concerted hear voices and instruments of music.
Other sometimes required the assiduous penitents D. Narciso-examining Christian doctrine or
While the singing in church banned after a month of rehearsals, or withdrawing from the altar
cloths that they had embroidered aplanchado, or threw in some chapel where they had assume its
real, etc., etc. These acts of despotism earned the enmity habíanle of the Gallic clergy and female.
A D. Miguel gave a farthing for such animosity. The enjoyment of his life was not loved or admired,
but do all the time and chance their will. Furthermore, it could have all the defects they want their
enemies, but nobody ever knew shadow bias towards weaker sex. Positively despised women, believed
that none was able to say or do anything with common sense. In his manly character seemed embodied
the Roman spirit, which denied women the power to govern itself never.

Neither is believed to D. Miguel was shown not obedient to his superiors.

The bishop had trouble an immense understanding with him. If you sent an order, without giving it
cures archived compliance, if I turned a visit, it would get in bed pretending to be sick to
see him. Concluded by ignore him and let him go with it. Peñascosa did not confess but half
a dozen veterans of the civil war. Other parishioners were split between chaplains assigned
to the parish for four-fifths of the women relied on burdens of their weaknesses to the irresistible
D. Narciso. D. Miguel felt no despondency for this preference. And yet, the small number of
his penitents was assured that confessor prudent, discreet and delicate questions.

Finished reading the Gospel and could see the satisfaction of looking
around with persistence Lorito movements.

Why was this rogue so distracted looking at the rapt gallery in hearing the melodies of the organ, if
not for two seconds that he had seen getting into his pocket half a pound of wax at least? Pastor
for the soul of thoughts crossed death and destruction. Had the strength, however, to hold
back. The Mass continued. The priest novel elevated the Sacred Host with trembling hands, amid a buzz
of enthusiasm and worship. The court, by releasing more guttural tremolo records, contributed mightily
to do most solemn and moving the descent of the Son of God into the hands of man. Gil felt shudder
under the impression his body. Ineffable joy rose from the bottom of his chest and squeezed
her gently throat. That bounty, infinite, that his God made him, and with such longing had expected,
stirred up every fiber of his heart. His eyes were veiled by the tears, and to bend the knee, before
raising the cup of passion, was some seconds to rise and about to fall unconscious.
  One understood after a while
the nightmare that lays hold of trench-stale men, when the dreamer wanders for ever in those
blind mazes till, after centuries of agonizing flight, he finds himself stumbling out again
into the white blaze and horror of the mined front--he who thought he had almost reached home!

IN THE FRONT LINE

There were no trees above us now.  Their trunks lay along the edge of the trench, built in
with stones, where necessary, or sometimes overhanging it in ragged splinters or bushy tops.
Bits of cloth, not French, showed, too, in the uneven lines of debris at the trench lip, and
some thoughtful soul had marked an unexploded Boche trench-sweeper as "not to be touched."
It was a young lawyer from Paris who pointed that out to me.

We met the Colonel at the head of an indescribable pit of ruin, full of sunshine, whose steps
ran down a very steep hillside under the lee of an almost vertically plunging parapet.  To
the left of that parapet the whole hillside was one gruel of smashed trees, split stones, and
powdered soil. It might have been a rag-picker's dump-heap on a colossal scale.

Alan looked at it critically.  I think he had helped to make it not long before.

"We're on the top of the hill now, and the Boches are below us," said he.  "We gave them a
very fair sickener lately."

"This," said the Colonel, "is the front line."

There were overhead guards against hand-bombs which disposed me to believe him, but what convinced
me most was a corporal urging us in whispers not to talk so loud.  The men were at dinner,
and a good smell of food filled the trench. Saw himself seriously hurry to survive. The boy was in his way a lot in any work. Devoted
himself to go from house to house lower performing trades and painful, to bring water or scrubbing
floors, carrying messages, the only thing he could do, having no job whatsoever. But at one
point appears to be that the left forces, their health, each shaky day, the waste was leaving
for work. Was fired from some houses. Other followed by charity used, although less frequently.
Began to starve and son too.

One day she was fired also the only house that already attended.

-
Basilisa - said Mrs. - You can no longer bring water and scrub floors.

It is you killing and can not meet properly. I need to find another assistant ... Well I would
like keep her ... but I'm not rich, you know ... we have many expenses ...

- Yes, ma'am, yes, I understand - said the humble and unhappy with forced smile .-- Too has done
for me.

Left the house, its last refuge, his heart tightened and legs unsteady. Razorfen reached the
dwelling in the suburbs. His son slept in the crib the sweet dream and serenity of the angels.
The poor fell to his knees and sobbed for a long time.

He lifted his head at last, and said silently watching the child:

-
No, not go to the hospice!

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ​​leaving the son of her
womb in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely
as he could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already
had about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging,
but besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that
his days were numbered.

And dying it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating
from time to time the same phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything? Take
my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters.
 War was his business, as the still
woods could testify--but his hobby was his trenches.  He had tapped the mountain streams and
dug out a laundry where a man could wash his shirt and go up and be killed in it, all in a
morning; had drained the trenches till a muddy stretch in them was an offence; and at the bottom
of the hill (it looked like a hydropathic establishment on the stage) he had created baths
where half a battalion at a time could wash.  He never told me how all that country had been
fought over as fiercely as Ypres in the West; nor what blood had gone down the valleys before
his trenches pushed over the scalped mountain top. What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days of my
window I see them run one after another in the garden of Montesinos playing tag ... So much so
that I told.

- Have you told him! - Exclaimed the other, stunned.

- Yes, girl ... Can not you see I confess to him?

... There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be
offended ... but I, you and Obdulia watching them play in the garden,
I have suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts. "

- Ave Maria, how
awful!  I saw the hunters who passed before it, going
to the chase on the far side of the mountain where their game lay.

.    .    .    .    .    .    .

A BOMBARDED TOWN

Alan carried me off to tea the same evening in a town where he seemed to know everybody.  He
had spent the afternoon on another mountain top, inspecting gun positions; whereby he had been
shelled a little--marmite is the slang for it.  There had been no serious marmitage, and he
had spotted a Boche position which was marmitable.

"And we may get shelled now," he added, hopefully.  "They shell this town whenever they think
of it.  Perhaps they'll shell us at tea."

It was a quaintly beautiful little place, with its mixture of French and German ideas; its
old bridge and gentle-minded river, between the cultivated hills.  The sand-bagged cellar doors,
the ruined houses, and the holes in the pavement looked as unreal as the violences of a cinema
against that soft and simple setting. When was
too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and
began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight mothers were in charge ask the master
for his behavior and application whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to
'put you tighten the screws. "The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every
moment, in front of his classmates, his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing
that he had humble and grateful to his beneficent. This humility was the thing that never stopped
singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally
on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble! Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity
Do you understand? ... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non-
alternating with distinguished sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors
and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy of respect.

Teníala

humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide, if not had not it would be easy to
ridicule and scorn inculcate their peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish him too. His was a nature
lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and affection, and
is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable. Passionately
loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or punished, or
even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if he were his
son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ​​devoting to the office of his father. They
thought of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D.
Remigio Flórez, a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home.
  In mileage on the map the line must be between
four and five hundred miles; in actual trench-work many times that distance.  It is too much
to see at full length; the mind does not readily break away from the obsession of its entirety
or the grip of its detail.  One visualizes the thing afterwards as a white-hot gash, worming
all across France between intolerable sounds and lights, under ceaseless blasts of whirled
dirt. Only Ms
Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and
withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount,
would be paid to cleavage, sent the boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing
great enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When
I came to Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with
the conduct and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided
some services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or
serving as a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child
became a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time
to become a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence
caused deep emotion in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and
therefore entitled to mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly. Certainly, these reliefs were
once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving and tolerant with the child had shown
were most extreme now with the man. This out of their boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and
Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties
among them.

The rich, as Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more
expensive: those who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied
the money with the skill of their hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which
caused admiration. Fixed the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but
many of the people, their friends. It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of
the people who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances that had led
to such protection. The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication of that.
None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and this secret resentments rise again
palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's
companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

-
You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback.

Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna
inclination, but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus
was indeed given much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about
three years, more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which
was contrast to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation,
for his little jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them.
  It
is when he is outside the zone unchaperoned that questions begin, and the permits are looked
into.  If these are irregular--but one doesn't care to contemplate it.  If regular, there are
still a few counter-checks.  As the sergeant at the railway station said when he helped us
out of an impasse:  "You will realize that it is the most undesirable persons whose papers
are of the most regular. It is their business you see.  The Commissary of Police is at the
Hotel de Ville, if you will come along for the little formality.  Myself, I used to keep a
shop in Paris.  My God, these provincial towns are desolating!"

PARIS--AND NO FOREIGNERS

He would have loved his Paris as we found it.  Life was renewing itself in the streets, whose
drawing and proportion one could never notice before.  People's eyes, and the women's especially,
seemed to be set to a longer range, a more comprehensive gaze.  One would have said they came
from the sea or the mountains, where things are few and simple, rather than from houses.  Best
of all, there were no foreigners--the beloved city for the first time was French throughout
from end to end.  It felt like coming back to an old friend's house for a quiet talk after
he had got rid of a houseful of visitors. The functionaries and police had dropped their masks
of official politeness, and were just friendly. 

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it
on that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets,
not being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed in opening
the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a tavern in the town. Attended Basilisa a moment
to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time, stroking her with his eyes
upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging and the basket of supplies
and took them home with joy. Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing
between his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The womb
from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing for octopus, heard noise
and provided the first aid to the child. Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case
produced a deep impression. Women wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses
lavished a thousand cares. Many offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it.
Aware ladies of the village and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's
wives then gave to do so in the interest of the former.  Still, there was no sense of
desolation.  They had gone on; the others were getting ready.

All France works outward to the Front--precisely as an endless chain of fire-buckets works
toward the conflagration.  Leave the fire behind you and go back till you reach the source
of supplies.  You will find no break, no pause, no apparent haste, but never any slackening.
Everybody has his or her bucket, little or big, and nobody disputes how they should be used.
It is a people possessed of the precedent and tradition of war for existence, accustomed to
hard living and hard labour, sanely economical by temperament, logical by training, and illumined
and transfigured by their resolve and endurance.

You know, when supreme trial overtakes an acquaintance whom till then we conceived we knew,
how the man's nature sometimes changes past knowledge or belief.  He who was altogether such
an one as ourselves goes forward simply, even lightly, to heights we thought unattainable.
Though he is the very same comrade that lived our small life with us, yet in all things he
has become great.  So it is with France to-day.  She has discovered the measure of her soul. Although one of the most shameless rascals of the town Parrot
(which by that name was known this young man distinguished) was upset and tantico restless under
the gaze of the clergy. The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor Rocky, since 25
of this century was one of the worst men genius of Spain, and do not exaggerate if we say
nothing of the globe. Had at the time eighty-two years, was high, dry, sharp features, thick
brows together, small and piercing eyes. Still had great physical vigor, and what is even rarer, in
his remaining hair barely noticed the gray. The duration of the first civil war, left the flock
and went to the Basque provinces to fight with weapons in hand for the cause of the Pretender.


Similarly with stables, barricades, and barbed-wire work, the clearing and piling away of wrecked
house-rubbish, the serving of meals till the service rocks on its poor tired feet, but keeps
its temper; and all the unlovely, monotonous details that go with war.

The women, as I have tried to show, work stride for stride with the men, with hearts as resolute
and a spirit that has little mercy for short-comings.  A woman takes her place wherever she
can relieve a man--in the shop, at the posts, on the tramways, the hotels, and a thousand other
businesses. She is inured to field-work, and half the harvest of France this year lies in her
lap.  One feels at every turn how her men trust her.  She knows, for she shares everything
with her world, what has befallen her sisters who are now in German hands, and her soul is
the undying flame behind the men's steel. No harder and never dealt fervent zeal the salvation of
the beautiful half of mankind. Not only addressed with particular care awareness of that best
represented in Peñascosa, shepherding his sheep with love thus leaving some stone throwing which
strayed as diligent pastor era, but by dint of many sleepless nights had been found a fraternity,
established and in other parts of Spain and abroad, the brotherhood of the Daughters of Mary.
In this brotherhood not fall more than young singles. Such privilege excited a vague defiance
mixed of appetite in married women. Creíanse humiliated with that exclusion. D. Narciso advantage
this shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone.

- Oh, ladies, should not envy you the privilege! You have husbands who look and serve.

She said in an ironic twang showing hostility secret that the chaplain was to all the husbands.
The ladies, upon whom the charms of fascination and those not exercising some, forced smile and mischievously
as saying: "Ya, ya!" It was rumored that more in love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife of the
apothecary of the place, had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time with her
family. Ms Filomena widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every day.
No However, he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, administrator
Montesinos.

- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening to his companion expressed so clearly.

-
Girl, I do not know!

  Even if France of to-day stood alone
against the world's enemy, it would be almost inconceivable to imagine her defeat now; wholly
so to imagine any surrender.  The war will go on till the enemy is finished. The French do
not know when that hour will come; they seldom speak of it; they do not amuse themselves with
dreams of triumphs or terms.  Their business is war, and they do their business.

