To my own mind this picture of Luke Fildes reaches high-water mark in the school of his time,
and yet in watching as I have done the crowds who surge through the Tate Galleries and the
National Gallery, it is an almost every-day occurrence to overhear such contemptuous remarks
as "Oh, yes, one of those literary fellows," drop from the lips of some highbrow who only tolerates
Constable because of the influence his example and work had on Corot and other men of the Barbizon
school.

Another section lose their senses over pure brush work.

A story of Whistler--one he told me himself--will illustrate what I mean. Jules Stewart's father,
a great lover of good pictures and one of Fortuny's earliest patrons, had invited Whistler
to his house in Paris to see his collection, and in the course of the visit drew from a hiding-place
a small panel of Meissonier's, of a quality so high that any dealer in Paris would have given
him $30,000 for it.

Whistler would not even glance at it.

Upon Stewart insisting, he adjusted his monocle and said: "Oh, yes, very good--snuff-box style."

This affectation was to have been expected of Whistler because of his aggressive mental attitude
toward the work of any man who handled his brush differently from his own personal methods,
but saner minds may think along broader lines.

If they do not, they have short memories. Even in my own experience I have watched the rise
and fall of men whose technic called from the housetops--a call which was heard by the passing
throng below, many of whom stopped to listen and applaud; for in pictures as in bonnets the
taste of the public changes almost daily. One has only to review several of the schools, both
in English and in Continental art, noting their dawn of novelty, their sunrise of appreciation,
their high noon of triumph, their afternoon of neglect, and their night of oblivion, to be
convinced that the wheel of artistic appreciation is round like other wheels--the world, for
one--and that its revolutions bring the night as surely as they bring the dawn. 

He saw, "no, although i am in paper. I am seek to go to this evening. I will have wonderful papers.
You must see to me through. I am----." I cut it american by that I, etc., and circumstantially walked
away. From that time on this homo chase me everyplace, seek to one accomplishment through gates
with me and to get into the space, even following me on same hotels and restaurants, and trying
to its back anything he could out of my presence.
 They, of course, had only been eclipsed by the broader
brushes of more recent time, men like Frank Brangwyn and Colin Hunter, who have yielded to
the pressure of the change in taste, or of whom it would be more just to say, have set present
taste, so that to-day not only the afternoon of night, but the twilight of forgetfulness, is
slowly and surely casting long shadows over the more realistic men of the eighties and nineties.

What will follow this evolution of technic no man can predict. The lessons of the past, however,
are valuable, and to-day one touch of Turner's brush is more sought for than acres of canvases
so greatly prized twenty years after his death.

And this is not alone confined to the old realistic English school. In my own time I have seen
Verbeckoeven eclipsed by Van Marcke, Bouguereau, Cabanel, and Gérôme by Manet, and Sir Frederick
Leighton by John Sargent--a young David slaying the Goliath of English technic with but a wave
of his magic brush--and, last and by no means least, the great French painter Meissonier by
the equally great Spanish master Sorolla.

I am tempted to continue, for the success of these men in the fulness of the sunlight of their
triumph, realists as well as impressionists, was wholly due to their understanding of and adherence
to the rules of selection, composition, and mass which form the basis of these papers, and
which despite their differences in brush work they all adhered to.

In the late half of the preceding century Meissonier received $66,000 for his "Friedland,"
a picture which cost him the best part of two years to paint, and the expenditure of many thousands
of francs, notably the expense attendant upon the trampling down of a field of growing wheat
by a drove of horses that he might study the action and the effect the better. Forty years
later Sorolla received $20,000 for two figures in blazing sunlight which took him but two days
to paint, the rest of his collection bringing $250,000, the whole exhibit of one hundred and
odd pictures having been visited by 150,000 persons in thirty-two days. And he is still in
the full tide of success, pre-eminently the greatest master of the out-of-doors of modern times,
while to-day the work of Meissonier has fallen into such disrepute that no owner dares offer
one of his canvases at public auction except under the keenest necessity. The first master
expresses the refinement of extreme realism, or rather detailism; the other is a pronounced
impressionist of the sanest of the open-air school of to-day. How long this pendulum will continue
to swing no one can tell. Both men are great painters in the widest, deepest, and most pronounced
sense; both men have glorified, ennobled, and enriched their time; and both men have reflected
credit and honor upon their nation and their school.

Meissonier could not only draw the figure, give it life and action, keep it harmonious in color,
perfect in its gradations of black and white, but he had that marvellous gift of color analysis
which reproduces for you in a picture the size of the top of a cigar-box every tone in the
local and reflected light to be found, say, in the folds of a cavalier's cloak, the pleats
no wider than the point of a stub pen.

All this, of course, Sorolla ignores and, I am afraid, knowing the man personally as I do,
despises. What concerns the great Spaniard is the whole composition alive in the blaze of the
sunlight, the glare of the hot sand and the shimmer of the blue, overarching sky, beating up
and down and over the figures, and all depicted with a slash of a brush almost as wide as your
hand. The first picture, the size of a tobacco-box, you can hold between thumb and finger and
enjoy, amazed at the master's knowledge and skill. The other grips you from afar off as you
enter the gallery and stand startled and astounded before its truth and dignity. In the first
Meissonier tells you the whole story to the very end. In the second Sorolla presents but a
series of shorthand notes which you yourself can fill in to suit your taste and experience
both of life and nature.

Whether you prefer one or the other, or neither, is a matter for you to decide. You pay your
money or you don't, and you can take your choice. The future only can tell the story of the
revolution of the wheel. In the next decade a single Meissonier may be worth its weight in
sheet gold and layers of Sorollas may be stored in attics awaiting some fortunate auction.

What will ensue, the art world over, before the wheel travels its full periphery, no man knows.
It will not be the hysteria of paint, I feel assured, with its dabbers, spotters, and smearers;
nor will it be the litters of the cub-ists, that new breed of artistic pups, sponsors for "The
girl coming down-stairs," or "The stairs coming down the girl," or "The coming girl and the
down-stairs," it makes no difference which, all are equally incoherent and unintelligible;
but it will be something which, at least, will boast the element of beauty which is the one
and only excuse for art's existence. I may not live to see Meissonier's second dawn and I never
want to see Sorolla's eclipse, but you may. You have only to remember Turner's second high
noon to be assured of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

And just here it might be well to consider this question of technic, especially its value in
obtaining the results desired. While it has nothing to do with either selection, composition,
or mass, it has, I claim, much to do with the way a painter expresses himself--his tone of
voice, his handwriting, his gestures in talking, so to speak--and therefore becomes an integral
part of my discourse. It may also be of service in the striking of a note of compromise, some
middle ground upon which the extremes may one day meet.

To make my point the clearer, let me recall an exhibition in New York, held some years ago,
when the bonnets were five deep trying to get a glimpse of a picture of half a dozen red prelates
who were listening to a missionary's story. Many of these devotees went into raptures over
the brass nails in the sofa, and were only disappointed when they could not read the monogram
on the bishop's ring. Later on, a highly cultivated and intelligent American citizen was so
entranced that he bought the missionary, story and all, for the price of a brown-stone front,
and carried him away that he might enjoy him forever.

One month later, almost exactly in the same spot hung another picture, the subject of which
I forget, or it may be that I did not understand it or that it had no subject at all. If I
remember, it was not like anything in the heavens above, or the earth beneath, or the waters
under the earth. In this respect one could have fallen down and worshipped it and escaped the
charge of idolatry. With the exception of a few stray art critics, delighted at an opportunity
for a new sensation, it was not surrounded by an idolatrous gathering at all. On the contrary,
the audience before it reminded me more of Artemas Ward and his panorama.

"When I first exhibited this picture in New York," he said, "the artists came with lanterns
before daybreak to look at it, and then they called for the artist, and when he appeared--they
threw things at him."

For one picture a gentleman gave a brown-stone front; for the other he would not have given
a single brick, unless he had been sure of planting it in the middle of the canvas the first
shot. The first was Vibert's realistic picture so well known to you. The other was an example
of the modern French school or what was then known as advanced impressionists.

I shall not go into an analysis of the technic of the two painters. I refer to them and their
brush work here because of the undue value set upon the way a thing is done rather than its
value after it is done.

Speaking for myself, I must admit that the value of technic has never impressed me as have
the other and greater qualities in a picture--namely, its expression of truth and the message
it carries of beauty and often tenderness. I have always held that it is of no moment to the
world at large by what means and methods an artist expresses himself; that the world is only
concerned as to whether he has expressed himself at all; and if so, to what end and extent.

If the artist says to us, "I scumbled in the background solid, using bitumen as an undertone,
then I dragged over my high lights and painted my cool color right into it," it is as meaningless
to most of us as if another bread-winner had said, "I use a Singer with a straight shuttle
and No. 60 cotton." What we want to know is whether she made the shirt.

Art terms are, however, synonymous with other terms and in this connection may be of assistance.
To make my purpose clear we will suppose that "technic" in art is handwriting. "Composition,"
the arrangement of sentences. "Details," the choice of words. "Drawing," good grammar. "Mass,
or light and shade," contrasting expressions giving value each to the other. I hold, however,
that there is something more. The author may write a good hand, spell correctly, and have a
proper respect for Lindley Murray, but what does he say? What idea does he convey? Has he told
us anything of human life, of human love, of human suffering or joy, or uncovered for us any
fresh hiding-place of nature and taught us to love it? Or is it only words?

It really matters very little to any of us what the handwriting of an author may be, and so
it should matter very little how an artist touches the canvas.

It is true that a picture containing and expressing an idea the most elevated can be painted
either in mass or detail, at the pleasure of the painter. He may write in the Munich style,
or after the manner of the Düsseldorf ready writers, or the modern French pothook and hanger,
or the antiquated Dutch. He can use the English of Chaucer, or Shakespeare, or Josh Billings,
at his own good pleasure. If he conveys an intelligible idea he has accomplished a result the
value of which is just in proportion to the quality of that idea.

To continue this parallel, it may be said that extreme realism is the use of too many words
in a sentence and too many sentences in a paragraph; extreme impressionism, the use of too
few. Neither, however, is fundamental, and art can be good, bad, or indifferent containing
each or combining both.

Realism, or, to express it more clearly, detailism, is the realizing of the whole subject-matter
or motive of a picture in exact detail. Impressionism is the generalizing of the subject-matter
as a whole and the expression of only its salient features.

The extreme realist or detailist of the Ruskin type has for years been insisting that a spade
was a spade and should be painted to look like a spade; that a spade was not a spade until
every nail in the handle and every crack in the blade became apparent.

The more advanced would have insisted on not only the fibre in the wood, but the brand on the
other side of the blade, had it been physically possible to show it.

In absolute contrast to this, there lived a man at Barbizon who maintained that a spade was
not a spade at all, but merely a mass of shadow against a low twilight sky, in the hands of
a figure who with uncovered head listens reverently; that the spade is merely a symbol of labor;
that he used it as he would use a word necessary to express a sentence, which would be unintelligible
without it, and that it was perfectly immaterial to him, and should be to the world, whether
it was a spade or a shovel so long as the soft twilight, and the reverent figures wearied with
the day's work, and the flat waste of field stretching away to the little village spire on
the dim horizon line told the story of human suffering and patience and toil, as with folded
hands they listened to the soft cadence of the angelus.

Which of these two methods of expression is correct--Ruskin or Millet? Are there any laws which
govern, or is it a matter of taste, fancy, or feeling? Is it a matter of individuality? If
so, which individual by his methods tells us the most truths? Let us endeavor to analyze.

I whirl through a mountain gorge and catch a glance through a car-window--an impression. In
the darkness of the tunnel it remains with me. I see the great mass of white cumuli and against
them the dark cedars, the straggling foot-path and steep cliffs. I am impressed with the sweep
of the cloud form pressing over and around them. With my eyes closed I paint this on my brain,
and if I am great enough and wide enough and deep enough I can subdue my personality and forget
my surroundings, and when opportunity offers I can express upon my canvas the few salient facts
which impressed me and should impress my fellow men. If it is the silvery light of the morning,
I am Corot; if the day is gone and across the cool lagoon I see the ripple amid the tall grass
catching the fading color of the warm sky, I am Daubigny; if a gray mist hangs over the hillside
and the patches of snow half melted express the warmth and mellowness of the coming spring,
I am our own Inness.

Perhaps, however, I am not content. I am overburdened with curiosity. I say to myself: "What
sort of trees, pine or cedar?" I think, pine, but I am uneasy lest they should be hemlock.
Were the rocks all perpendicular, or did not detached bowlders line the path? About the clouds,
were they not some small cirri beneath the zenith? My memory is so bad--and so I stop the train
and go back. Just as I expected. The trees were spruce and the rocks were grass-grown and full
of fissures, and so I begin to paint and continue. I get the bark on the trees, and the foliage
until each particular leaf stands on end, and the strata of the cliffs, and the very sand on
the path. I crowd into my canvas geology, botany, and the laws governing cloud forms.

Being an ordinary mortal, my curiosity, my telescopic eyes, my magnifying-glass of vision,
my love of truth, my positive conviction that it is a spruce and should not be painted as a
pine, except through rank perjury, all these forces together have undermined my impression
or, like thorns, have grown up and choked it. Being honest, I am ready to confess that before
returning to the spot I was in doubt about the pine. But I am still ready to affirm that what
I have labored over is the exact counterfeit and presentment of nature, and equally willing
to denounce the public for not seeing it as I do. I forget that I have been a boor and a vulgarian--that
I have been invited to a feast and that I have pried into mysteries which my goddess would
veil from my sight; that I have had the impertinence to bring my own personal advice into the
discussion; that I have insisted that fissures, and leaves, and sand, and infinite detail were
necessary to this expression of nature's sublimity.

Is it at all strange that the impression which so charmed me as I saw it from my car-window
has faded? Nature unrolled for me suddenly a poem. For symbols she used a great mass of dark,
sturdy trees against a majestic cloud, a rugged cliff, and a straggling path. I have ignored
them all and insisted that "truth was mighty and must prevail." I am a realist and "paint things
as they are." Not so. I am an iconoclast and have broken my god and cannot put together the
pieces. I have sacrificed a divine impression to a human realism.

Suppose, however, that the painter who had this glimpse of nature before entering the tunnel
was no ordinary man, but a man of steadfast mind, of firm convictions, of a sure touch, with
an absolute belief in nature, and so reverential that he dare not offer even a suggestion of
his own. He has seen it; he has felt it; it has gone down deep into his memory and heart. The
cloud, the cliff, the mass, the path--that is all. And it is enough. The annoyances of the
day, the seductions of fresh impressions of newer subjects, the weakness of the flesh do not
deter him. With a single aim, to the exclusion of all else, and with a direct simplicity, he
records what he saw, and lo! we have a poem. Such a man was Courbet, Corot, Dupré.

But one would say: That may answer for landscape: what about the figure-painter? Let us counsel
together.

A man only rises to his own level. In art, as in music and literature, he only expresses himself.
Each selects his own method. The school of Meissonier is not content with a few grand truths
simply expressed. They want a multitude of facts; they must tell the story in their own way.
They are the Dickens and Walter Scott of art. It is iteration and reiteration. My cardinal
must not only have red stockings, says Vibert, but they must be silk; every detail must be
elaborated. Very well, what of it? you say. What do you criticise, the drawing? No. The color?
No. The composition? No. Does the painter express himself? Perfectly. What then? Just this.
He expresses himself too perfectly. At first I am delighted. The story is so well told--the
well-fed prelates; the half-sneer; the cynical smile; the earnest missionary telling his experience.
But the next day?--well, he is still telling it. By the end of the week the enjoyment is confined
to allowing him to tell it to a fresh eye, and that eye another's, and watching his pleasure.
At the end of the year it becomes a part of the decoration of the wall. You perhaps feel that
the frame needs retouching, and that is all the impression it makes upon you, except as would
an old timepiece with the mainspring gone. The works are exquisite and the enamelling charming,
but it has been four o'clock for forty years.

In the library, however, hangs an etching which you often look at; in fact, you never pass
it without noticing it. Two figures, a wheelbarrow, a spade, a stretch of country, a spire
pencilled against a low-tone sky; and yet, somehow, you hear the tolling of the bell and the
whispered prayer. Ah! but you say this has nothing to do with the treatment; it is the subject.
One moment. The missionary's story is as full of pathos and of human suffering and courage
as the "Angelus," and at first as profoundly stirs our sympathy; but, in one, Vibert has monopolized
the conversation; he has exhausted the subject; he has told you everything he knows. Nothing
has been omitted; nails, monograms, and all; there is nothing left for you to supply--he is
not so complimentary. But Millet has taken you into his confidence. He says: "Come, see what
I once saw. Do you ever remember any such couple working in the field?" And you immediately,
and unconsciously to yourself, remember just such a bent back and reverent, uncovered head.
Where, you cannot tell, for the picture comes to you out of the dim lumber-room in your brain
where you store your old memories and faint impressions of bygone days and sad faces.

But if he added, "See, my peasant wears a woollen jacket trimmed with worsted braid," your
impression would immediately fade. You might remember the jacket, but the braid, never. But
for this it would have been delightful for you, although unconsciously, to add your own sweet
memory to the picture.

Another impression choked to death with unnecessary realism.

But be you realist or impressionist, remember that a true work of art is that which has pleased
the greatest number of people for the longest period of time; that the love of beauty indicates
our highest intellectual plane, and that if you will express to your fellow sinners burdened
with life's cares something of the enthusiasm of your own life, and will assist them to see
their mother earth through your own eyes in constantly increasing beauty--you having by your
art, in your possession, the key to the cipher, and interpreting and translating for them--you
will confer upon them one of the greatest blessings which fall to their lot on this mundane sphere.

WATER-COLORS

Color, if you stop to think, is really the decorative touch which God gives to the universe.
It would have been just as easy to make everything gray--every rose but the shadow of itself--every
tree and rock and cloud a monotone of gradation. Instead of that, everything we look at, from
a violet to an overbending sky, is enriched and glorified by millions of color tones as infinite
in their gradation as the waves of sound and light. Even in the grayest days, when the clouds
are bursting into tears and the whole landscape is desolate as the barrenest and bleakest of
mountain sides, these infinite gradations of color permeate and redeem its barrenness, and
to the true painter fill it with joy and beauty.

There are many of us, however, who are not true painters and to whom the most exquisite of
color schemes are but dull results. Many of us walk around our galleries passing the best pictures
in silence; others ridicule what they cannot understand. Even our own beloved Mark Twain, whose
heart was always open to the best and warmest of human impressions, and who expressed them
in every line of his pen, when led up to one of Turner's masterpieces, "The Slave Ship," a
glory of red, yellow, and blue running riot over a sunset sky, the whole reflected in a troubled
sea, remarked to his companion: "Very wonderful! Seen it before. Always reminds me of a tortoise-shell
cat having a fit in a plate of tomato soup."

The education of such barbarians belongs to our generation and should be taken up by those
of us who know or think we do. For true color is as great an educator as true music. This knowledge
of color harmony, this matching and contrasting of different colors, but very few men and women
possess. When they do, it is generally inherited and thus a natural gift. The rest of the world
wear blue and purple, or orange and green, entirely ignorant of the harmonies of nature even
as bearing on their domestic surroundings. For myself, I have always held that the most perfect
harmonies required in either wall decoration, furniture, dress goods, or any other fabrics
that color enters into, have their exact counterpart in some color tones of nature--that the
russet-browns and yellows of autumn; the contrasting opalescent hues of a morning sky, rose-pink,
pale blue, or delicate tea-rose yellow; the gloom of a forest with its yellow-grays and blue-grays,
the gray-green moss of the lichens, the brown of the tree-trunks, the black and gray hues of
the rocks, all these, if carefully studied and analyzed and reproduced, would make beautiful
anything in the world from a bonnet to a château. That it is indeed surprising that some painters have not hitherto been
adopted in England regarding the leader of most dead, and from the example
have eclipsed of other countries. I entered Paris, casting Bicêtre
to my right, and by barrière d'enfer, after one of the spacious and
are interesting journeys i had ever they performed. CHAP. Nineties.
ENVIRONS of PARIS-- PERE LA chaise-- CASTLE of Painters-- and Pressure
of ST. GERMAIN-- its FOREST.

Prior to the revolution, that the french, like most realistic nations, were in the practice of lodge their
consequently on years and men within most populous towns, in compliance
with those precepts of doctrine which recommend us are unceasingly
to reflect on death; and eastward followed of custom which cannot
or be look with most pernicious consequences to health, when we would
reflect that the human to bodies is untouched of putrid exhalations,
and gently pregnant with the causes at contagious disorders.

The curé, with many other like the inhabitants, they sought taste,
leaving his elm of enemy, who commenced plundering in all directions;
the humble and be present appearance of M. Détruissart's cottage would
not attracting their notice, it remained productive, when a twilight
from any trees of the inhabitants would have been devoted it was of
ruin; but have such was their esteem for him have, that at return
he found every thing as he had left it.

In year to 1793, had a decree was passed by Assembly, to prevent burying in churches, or in church-yards,
within treatment to Paris.

Since which hours, there have been three places in pressure in its immediate neighbourhood for that Montmartre,
called "Le Champ Repos"-- Vaugirard, or père Chaise. Discontinue the boulevards, at the extremity of the
Boulevards neufs, still been of the city, and passing through the Barrière parsons'Aulnay, i arrived at the
Père La chaise. At the twilight, through large folding gates, is the court-yard, having at one
angle the dwelling of the Concierge, or Keeper. The cage whom contains one hundred and twenty acres,
on a ground, in the centre of which stands the mansion by Louis xiv. for his confessor, Père la
chaise, the single, who, with the Madame de Maintenon, governed France.
Rising above the thousands of tombs which environ it, since it displays
itself a wrecked and mouldering monument in ancient water, and the
mutability of human affairs!



Take, for instance, a morning in late spring or early summer, when all nature is dressed from
tree-top to grass-blade in a suit of vivid green. To a tyro with so dangerous a weapon as a
color-box, there is nothing that will really bring down this game but some explosive composed
of indigo and Indian yellow, or Prussian blue and light cadmium--perhaps the strongest mixture
of vivid raw green.

Now, pluck a single leaf from a near-by branch, hold it close to one eye, and with this as
a guide note the difference in color tones between it and the leaves on the tree from which
you plucked the leaf and which you had believed to be a vivid green. To your surprise, the
leaf itself, even with the sun shining through it, is many tones lower and grayer than the
color of the near-by branch as depicted on your paper, while the near-by branch, in comparison,
pales into a sable gray-green, which you could perhaps get with yellow ochre, blue-black, and
a touch of chrome-yellow.

It does not seem to me that I can better illustrate this quality of the gray than by rapidly
going over some of the works of George Inness lately on exhibition in New York--certainly to
me the most marvellous examples of the power of a human mind to harmonize the subtle colorings
of nature. I select Inness not only because he is to me one of the great landscape-painters
of his day, but because he chooses a very wide range of subjects, from early morning to twilight,
expressing these truthfully, absolutely, perfectly, so far as local color is concerned--that
is, of course, as I see through either my own spectacles or Inness's; but, then, remember,
our eyes may need repair. When these canvases are analyzed we find in the range of color nothing
stronger than yellow ochre in yellows, than light red in reds, and, with hardly an exception,
blue-black for blues. Indeed, his usual palette, as does Mauve's and Cazin's, seems to me to
be only yellow ochre and blue-black, and with these two colors he expresses the whole range
of the color scheme in nature, with the varying lights of day and night, except in depicting
sunsets.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the salient features of a landscape have been analyzed and recorded in color, the more
subtle qualities are to be detected and expressed. The most important of these is the time
of day. To an outdoor painter--an expert examining the work of another expert--the hour-hand
is written over every square inch of the canvas. He knows from the angle of the shadows just
how high the sun was in the heavens, and he knows, too, from the local color of the shadows
whether it is a silvery light of the morning, the glare of noontime, or the deepening golden
glow of the afternoon. In fact, if you will think for a moment, the shadow of an overhanging
balcony upon a white wall is a perfect sun-dial for him, and this test can be indefinitely
applied to every part of the picture.

The next is the temperature: how hot or how cold it was--what month in the year? It is unnecessary
for Inness to cover his ground with snow to make his picture express a certain degree of cold,
neither is it necessary for Monténard to fill his Provençal roads with clouds of dust to show
how hot they are. This is done by the opalescent tones of the sky, by the values expressed
in reflected lights and in the illuminated shadows, so that you feel in looking across one
of Inness's fields of brown grass just how late is the autumn and just how cool it has been,
and in looking down one of Monténard's roads you realize how useless would be an overcoat.

In this connection let me say that all nature is interesting and all nature is beautiful, but
all nature, as I have said, is not paintable. The interior of a railroad station, for instance,
is interesting, as giving you certain mechanical results, construction, but it is not picturesque--that
is, paintable--unless one could treat it as Pennell does, contrasting the black cars and locomotive
with a puff of white steam, giving the vistas with the perspective of track, and a centre mass
of people adding an idea of movement and color.

Above all, the outdoor painter should get the character and feeling of the place he portrays
on his canvas. If in Spain, his picture must look like Spain. The air must be transparent,
the architecture clean-cut against the azure. If it be Holland, the atmosphere must be moist,
the air like a veil, and with all this there must be nothing in the work that will be mistaken
for the smoke-laden air of England. Only thus, by this fidelity to the very nature and spirit
of a place, can the picture be made to express the essence of its life, which is really the
heart of the whole mystery.

Coming at last to our text, Water-Colors--the art of depicting nature on a sheet of white paper
by paints diluted with water--it will be well to remind you that the art goes back to almost
prehistoric times. People grew tired of paying 20 per cent. for nothing, and many original their shares
by suffering them to be sold to pay the calls. This game on for elsewhere three years-- all'calls'and
no dividends; until at length it would have been difficult to find five persons out of the forfeited 500
who keep shares were in the Babel and Lowriver Vapor Navigation Company,
and there was next to nobody right to call upon. Irregular came the
winter, during which few passengers travelled to Lowriver; and with
Christmas came another L. 5 call.

Mr. C. E. Hughes, in his delightful book on "Early English Water Color," confined this English
school to the men born between the years 1720 and 1820.

In this group he places the great Gainsborough, who from 1760 to 1774 worked "in charcoal and
water-color on tinted paper," which he said he "loved to dash off of an evening, and which
dazzled the fine ladies and gentlemen who frequented the select watering-place of Bath," where
he was then living.

Then came Robert Cozens, the brothers Sanby, Thomas Hearne, Thomas Malton, Samuel Scott, and
a few others, all known as the eighteenth-century painters.

These were succeeded by Thomas Girtin, who was born in 1775 and died at twenty-seven years
of age; and the great J. M. W. Turner, who first saw the light in the same year, and on the
day on which all great Englishmen should be born--namely, April 23--a day dedicated to St.
George and the birthday of William Shakespeare.

Girtin and Turner worked together. Girtin, measured by the standard of to-day, was an extreme
impressionist, leaving behind him sketches dashed in with an appearance of freedom which Peter
DeWint and David Cox might have envied when in after years they were at the height of their
power. Turner, on the contrary, devoted his time to acquiring that triumphant grasp of detail
which caused him to be known in his earlier life as an extreme realist.

The change in Turner's work--the broader brush--came in his later years when oil became his
medium of expression, in which, no doubt, his ability to note and yet sacrifice all unnecessary
detail was a potent factor.

A list of Englishmen greatly prized in their day now follows. Such men as John Varly, Gilpin,
Glover, William Havell (all of whom during some part of their careers were members of the first
Water Color Society formed in England, in 1804, which body still survives in the old Water
Color Society whose rooms are still open on Pall Mall East) rose into prominence, their works
finding places both in private and public collections.

This society was in turn succeeded by the New Society of Painters in Miniature and Water Colors,
which came into being in 1807 and went out of existence in 1812--a victim, says Hughes, of
the condition of public apathy which brought about in the same year a reconstruction of the
older organization under the joint title of the Oil and Water Color Society, and which eked
out a precarious existence until the birth of the association now known as the Royal Institute
for Painters in Water Colors.

Other names now confront us, among them two men, David Cox and Peter DeWint, who in their day
were considered masters of the medium. These last struck a new note in water-color, or rather
a new technic in its handling. What Ruskin, the realist, in his "Modern Painters" describes
as "blottesque" was at that time looked upon by both teachers and students as the one and only
means by which white paper could be properly stained. This method, to quote from a loyal believer
in the English transparent school, and whose enthusiasm is delightful, was the laying on of
the color in washes which filled certain definite spaces indicated by a pen-and-ink outline.

These washes would indicate, say, a distant tree with a preliminary tint and a subsequent elaboration;
he would do it all in one process, giving his blot an irregular edge and allowing the color
to accumulate where the shadows required it. Years who have rolled on since then. Lowriver has not
grown of a popular and populous residence. Mr Montague Whalebone, who knew what he was about, having
bought and leased the building-ground, has become the owner into a property had increasing in the day.
 If we add to these two methods of using the brush a third--its manipulation
as though it were a pen--we shall have all the fluid processes on one or the other of which
the beauty of all modern water-color drawings depends. A fourth process is rubbing the color
into the grain of the paper. A fifth--a supplementary one--is scratching out. Last is the ignominy
of the stipple--the wetting of the brush in the mouth, a technic entirely dependent upon the
quantity of saliva the student can spare for his work. Almost every early wash water-color
in existence can be classified according to the employment in its making of some or all of
these means.

In later years, especially in the last half of the eighteenth century, we have Copley Fielding;
Prout, with his picturesque sepia drawings, the detail of his architecture in brown ink; Harding;
Bonnington, really a great man; Clarkson Stanfield; Rowbotham; David Roberts; James Holland;
Cattermole, who declined a knighthood and whose intimates were Dickens, Disraeli, and Thackeray;
and so on down to the men of to-day, who are so well and ably represented in the annual exhibitions
of the Royal Academy and the present English Water Color Societies.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for our own progress in the art, the subject, of course, is too well known for long discussion.
Our oldest society, the American Water Color Society, held its first public exhibition in the
National Academy of Design in New York in 1867, a date always remembered by me with infinite
pride and pleasure, for upon the walls of the smallest room close up under the roof was hung
my first exhibited water-color--the only one of my three the hanging committee were good enough
to accept. Two years later--I am happy to say--in 1869, I was elected a member, and I am further
happy to say that I am still in good standing and in high-hanging, and have so continued from
that day down to the present time--a trifle of some forty-six years.

