DYNEVOR TERRACE.

VOL. II.

BY

CHARLOTTE M. YONGE

CONTENTS

      1.  THE TRYSTE.
     II.  THE THIRD TIME.
    III.  MISTS.
     IV.  OUTWARD BOUND.
      V.  THE NEW WORLD.
     VI.  THE TWO PENDRAGONS.
    VII.  ROLAND AND OLIVER
   VIII.  THE RESTORATION.
     IX.  THE GIANT OF THE WESTERN STAR.
      X.  THE WRONG WOMAN IN THE WRONG PLACE.
     XI.  AUNT CATHARINE'S HOME.
    XII.  THE FROST HOUSEHOLD.
   XIII.  THE CONWAY HOUSEHOLD.
    XIV.  THE TRUSTEES' MEETING.
     XV.  SWEET USES OF ADVERSITY.
    XVI.  THE VALLEY OF HUMILIATION.
   XVII.  'BIDE A WEE.'
  XVIII.  THE CRASH.
    XIX.  FAREWELL TO GREATNESS.
     XX.  WESTERN TIDINGS.
    XXI.  STEPPING WESTWARD.
   XXII.  RATHER SUDDEN.
  XXIII.  THE MARVEL OF PERU.

CHAPTER I.

THE TRYSTE.

  One single flash of glad surprise
  Just glanced from Isabel's dark eyes,
  Then vanished in the blush of shame
  That as its penance instant came--
  'O thought unworthy of my race!'
                     The Lord of the Isles.

As little recked Fitzjocelyn of the murmurs which he had provoked, as he guessed the true secret
of his victory.  In his eyes, it was the triumph of merit over prejudice, and Mrs. Frost espoused
the same gratifying view, though ascribing much to her nephew's activity, and James himself,
flushed with hope and success, was not likely to dissent.

Next they had to make their conquest available.  Apart from Louis's magnificent prognostications,
at the lowest computation, the head master's income amounted to a sum which to James appeared
affluence; and though there was no house provided, it mattered the less since there were five
to choose from in the Terrace, even if his grandmother had not wished that their household
should be still the same.  With Miss Conway's own fortune and the Terrace settled on herself,
where could be any risk?

Would Lady Conway think so? and how should the communication be made? James at first proposed
writing to her, enclosing a letter to Isabel; but he changed his mind, unable to satisfy himself
that, when absent from restraint, she might not send a refusal without affording her daughter
the option.  He begged his grandmother to write to Isabel; but she thought her letter might
carry too much weight, and, whatever might be her hopes, it was not for her to tell the young
lady that such means were sufficient.

Louis begged to be the bearer of the letter.  His aunt would certainly keep terms with him,
and he could insure that the case was properly laid before Isabel; and, as there could be no
doubt at present of his persuasive powers, James caught at the offer.  The party were still
at Beauchastel, and he devised going to his old quarters at Ebbscreek, and making a descent
upon them from thence.

When he came to take up his credentials, he found James and his little black leathern bag,
determined to come at least to Ebbscreek with him, and declaring it made him frantic to stay
at home and leave his cause in other hands, and that he could not exist anywhere but close
to the scene of action.

Captain Hannaford was smoking in his demi-boat, and gave his former lodgers a hearty welcome,
but he twinkled knowingly with his eye, and so significantly volunteered to inform them that
the ladies were still at Beauchastel, that James's wrath at the old skipper's impudence began
to revive, and he walked off to the remotest end of the garden.

The Captain, remaining with Louis, with whom he was always on far more easy terms, looked after
the other gentleman, winked again, and confessed that he had suspected one or other of them
might be coming that way this summer, though he could not say he had expected to see them both
together.

'Mind, Captain,' said Louis,' it wasn't I that made the boat late this time last year.'

'Well!  I might be wrong, I fancied you cast an eye that way.  Then maybe it ain't true what's
all over the place here.'

Louis pressed to hear what.  'Why, that when the French were going on like Robert Spear and
them old times, he had convoyed the young lady right through the midst of them, and they would
both have been shot, if my Lady's butler hadn't come down with a revolver, killed half-a-dozen
of the mob, and rescued them out of it, but that Lord Fitzjocelyn had been desperately wounded
in going back to fetch her bracelet, and Mr. Delaford had carried him out in his arms.'

'Well!' said Louis, coolly, without altering a muscle of his face, as the Captain looked for
an angry negative.

'And when they got home,--so the story went,--Mr. Frost, the tutor, was so mad with jealousy
and rage, that my Lady declared those moorings would not suit her no longer, but had let go,
and laid her head right for Beauchastel.'

'Pray what was the young lady supposed to think of the matter?'

'Stories appeared to vary.  One version said that Mr. Delaford had found him on his knees to
her; and that my Lady had snatched her cruelly away, because she would not have her married
before her own daughters, and looked over all the post, for fear there should be a letter for
her.  Another declared that Miss Conway would not have him at any price, and was set upon the
poor tutor, and that he was lying dangerously ill of a low fever. --The women will have it
so,' observed the Captain, 'the story's everywhere, except maybe in the parlour at Beauchastel,
and I wouldn't wonder if Mrs. Mansell knew it all herself, for her maid has a tongue a yard
long.  I won't say but I thought there might be some grain of truth at the bottom--'

'And you shall hear it by-and-by, when I know what it is myself.'

'I'd not say I would have believed it the more if that fine gentleman had taken his oath of
it--a fellow that ain't to be trusted,' observed the Captain.

This might have led to a revelation, if Louis had had time to attend to it; but he had pity
on James's impatient misery, and proceeded to ask the loan of the boat.  The tide would not,
however, serve; and as waiting till it would was not to be endured, the two cousins set off
to walk together through the woods, Louis beguiling the way by chaffing James, as far as he
would bear, with the idea of Isabel's name being trifled with by the profane crowd.

He left James at the gate of the park, prowling about like a panther to try for a glimpse of
Isabel's window, and feeding his despair and jealousy that Louis should boldly walk up to the
door, while he, with so much better a right, was excluded by his unguarded promise to Lady Conway.

All the tumultuary emotions of his mind were endlessly repeated, and many a slow and pealing
note of the church-clock had added fuel to his impatience, and spurred him to rush up to the
door and claim his rights, before Louis came bounding past the lodge-gates, flourishing his
cap, and crying, 'Hurrah, Jem!  All right!'

'I'm going to her at once!' cried Jem, beginning to rush off; but Louis caught and imprisoned
his arm.

'Not so fast, sir!  You are to see her.  I promise you shall see her if you wish it, but it
must be in my aunt's way.'

'Let me go, I say!'

'When I have walked five miles in your service, you won't afford me an arm to help me back.
I am not a horse with wings, and I won't be Cupid's post except on my own terms.  Come back.'

'I don't stir till I have heard the state of the case.'

'Yes, you do; for all the sportsmen will be coming home, and my aunt would not for all the
world that Mr. Mansell caught you on the forbidden ground.'

'How can you give in to such shuffling nonsense!  If I am to claim Isabel openly, why am I
not to visit her openly?  You have yielded to that woman's crooked policy.  I don't trust you!'

