June 6. Orders were received to prepare headquarters, band and eight Troops dismounted, with
trained men only, for service in Cuba. Recruits to be left in camp with horses and property.

June 7. We were off for Port Tampa, where the regiment embarked on the steamship Leona that
afternoon.

June 8. She steamed from the dock. When the expedition seemed to be forming, news was received
that the dreaded Spanish fleet was being sighted, evidently lying in wait for army transports.
So we steamed back to the pier. Many of the men appeared disappointed at the move, probably
not realizing that there was too much water in the Atlantic Ocean for the 5th Army Corps to drink.

To my mind, the Divine Providence surely directed the move, as the delay enabled the force
to be swelled several thousand, every one of whom was needed before Santiago.

June 14. We steamed out of Tampa Bay, amid cheers and music from the thirty odd transports,
heavily escorted by naval vessels. Among them were the much talked-of dynamiter, Vesuvius,
and the beautiful little cruiser, Helena. Off Dry Tortugas that formidable warship, Indiana,
joined the fleet.

Splendid weather; nothing unusual transpiring, though our transport, which also contained the
First U.S. Cavalry, had a seemingly close call from being sent to the bottom of the sea, or
else being taken in as a prisoner, which the enemy could have done with impunity.

Whilst going down the Saint Nicholas Chanel, in Cuban waters, the vessel was deliberately stopped
about midnight, June 16, and left to roll in the trough of the sea until the morning of the
17th, in consequence of which we were put 20 hours behind the fleet and without escort, almost
in sight of the Cuban shores.

Men were indignant at having been placed in such a helpless position, and would have thrown
the captain of the ship, whom they accused of being a Spanish sympathizer and otherwise disloyal,
overboard without ceremony, but for the strong arm of military discipline. We were picked up
by the U.S. Cruiser Bancroft, late in the afternoon, she having been sent in quest of the Jonah
of the fleet. Upon approach of the ship there were prolonged cheers from all of Uncle Sam's
defenders. The only explanation that I have ever heard for this unpardonable blunder on the
part of the ship's crew was that they mistook a signal of a leading vessel.

June 20. Land was sighted.

June 21. Dispatch boats active; transports circling; Morro Castle pointed out; three days'
rations issued to each man; no extra impedimenta to be taken ashore; crew preparing for landing.

June 22. As we neared Daiquiri, the designated place for disembarking, flames could be seen
reaching almost to the heavens, the town having been fired by the fleeing Spaniards upon the
approach of war vessels of Sampson's fleet, who were assembling to bombard the shore and cover
our landing. After a fierce fire from these ships, the landing was effected with loss of two
men of our regiment, who were doubtless crushed to death between the lighters. They were buried
near the place of recovery the next morning.

The few half-clothed and hungry-looking natives on shore seemed pleased to see us. Daiquiri,
a shipping point of the Spanish-American Iron Company, was mostly deserted. The board houses
seemed to have been spared, while the sun-burned huts thatched with palm were still smoking,
also the roundhouse in which there were two railroad locomotives, warped and twisted from the
heat. The Spanish evidently fired everything they could before evacuating.

June 23. At 6.00 p.m. Troops A, B, E and I, left with four Troops of the First U.S. Cavalry
and Rough Riders (First U.S. Volunteer Cavalry) as advance guard of the Army of Invasion on
the main road to Santiago de Cuba; about 800 men all told, three Hotchkiss guns, manned by
ten cavalrymen, accompanied also by the Brigadier Commander, General S.M.B. Young and staff.

NOTE.--These troops marched about 13 miles through a drenching rain from 7 to 10 p.m.; bivouacked
one hour later. Oh the 24th, after breakfast, took the trail about 5.15 a.m. The vapor from
wet clothing rose with the sun, so that you could scarcely recognize a man ten feet away. About
three and one-half miles above Siboney the command was halted; the first U.S. Volunteer Cavalry
(Rough Riders) sent to the left; proceeding farther about one mile, the main column was split,
First U.S. Cavalry going to the right, the Tenth Cavalry remaining in the center. General Wheeler
joined at this point, accompanied by his orderly, Private Queene, Troop A, Tenth Cavalry. Disposition
of the troops was explained by General Young, who had located his headquarters with the Tenth
U.S. Cavalry; General Wheeler made his the same. Hotchkiss guns were ordered closed up; magazines
filled. The column had proceeded but a short way when the engagement opened in all its fury;
troops were deployed and advanced in the direction from which the bullets were coming the thickest,
as rapidly as the formation of the ground would permit, the left of the line touching the right
of the Rough Riders.

June 24. Headquarters, band and the remainder of the First and Tenth U.S. Cavalry were off
at 6 A.M. The road was alive with troops (C, D, F, G,) colonels and privates alike lugging
their rations and bedding beneath that ever watchful tropical sun, feeling as though they would
wilt at every step, the undergrowth being so thick and tall that scarcely any breeze could
get to you.

On emerging from this thicket, through which we had been marching for several hours, the Sampson
fleet could be heard firing on the Spanish batteries on shore. Marines and other troops could
be seen crossing the mountains above Altares; this revived the men very much. As we approached
Verni Jarabo (Altares?), we were met by General Lawton, who informed our Colonel that the advance
guard was engaged with the Spanish at La Guasima, and that it was hard pressed. Our pace was
quickened; the news appeared to lighten our heavy packs as we toiled to the front to assist
our comrades. The roar of the artillery became plainer; wounded men along the road as well
as those played-out from the intense heat. Women and children were fleeing to places of safety.
Our forces were repairing a railroad engine and track; also tearing up a piece leading to a
Spanish blockhouse. In fact, everything seemed to have on an exceedingly warlike tint, but
our advance continued as swifty as our weary feet would allow, which soon brought us to a number
of our own comrades conveyed on litters from La Guasima, where our advance guard was tussling
hard with the Dons for the honors of the day.

Upon arrival of reinforcements, victory had been wrested from the Dons fairly by the advance
guard without assistance. Every one greeted each other, as though it had been a year instead
of a few hours since parting. The First U.S. Cavalry and Rough Riders were unstinted in extolling
the fighting qualities of their brothers in arms, the Tenth U.S. Cavalry.

