MIKE FLANNERY

On Duty and Off

by

ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

Illustrations by Gustavus C. Widney

New York Doubleday, Page & Company

MCMIX

CONTENTS

    I. JUST LIKE A CAT

   II. THE THREE HUNDRED

  III. FLEAS WILL BE FLEAS

ILLUSTRATIONS

"'Pho-e-nix!' Is it a man's name, I dunno?" (Frontispiece)

"''Tis well enough t' say kape it, but cats like thim does not kape very well'"

"'I will tell you what it is,' said Mr. Gratz"

"Her pencil was delicately poised above the ruled page"

I

JUST LIKE A CAT

They were doing good work out back of the Westcote express office. The Westcote Land and Improvement
Company was ripping the whole top off Seiler's Hill and dumping it into the swampy meadow,
and Mike Flannery liked to sit at the back door of the express office, when there was nothing
to do, and watch the endless string of waggons dump the soft clay and sand there. Already the
swamp was a vast landscape of small hills and valleys of new, soft soil, and soon it would
burst into streets and dwellings. That would mean more work, but Flannery did not care; the
company had allowed him a helper already, and Flannery had hopes that by the time the swamp
was populated Timmy would be of some use. He doubted it, but he had hopes.

The four-thirty-two train had just pulled in, and Timmy had gone across to meet it with his
hand-truck, and now he returned. He came lazily, pulling the cart behind him with one hand.
He didn't seem to care whether he ever got back to the office. Flannery's quick blood rebelled.

"Is that all th' faster ye can go?" he shouted. "Make haste! Make haste! 'Tis an ixpriss company
ye are workin' fer, an' not a cimitery. T' look at ye wan w'u'd think ye was nawthin' but a
funeral!"

"Sure I am," said Tommy. "'Tis as ye have said it, Flannery; I'm th' funeral."

Flannery stuck out his under jaw, and his eyes blazed. For nothing at all he would have let
Timmy have a fist in the side of the head, but what was the use? There are some folks you can't
pound sense into, and Timmy was one of them.

"What have ye got, then?" asked Flannery.

"Nawthin' but th' corpse," said Timmy impudently, and Flannery did do it. He swung his big
right hand at the lad, and would have taught him something, but Timmy wasn't there. He had
dodged. Flannery ground his teeth, and bent over the hand-truck. The next moment he straightened
up and motioned to Timmy, who had stepped back from him, nearly half a block back.

"Come back," he said peacefully. "Come on back. This wan time I'll do nawthin' to ye. Come
on back an' lift th' box into th' office. But th' next time--"

Timmy came back, grinning. He took the box off the truck, carried it into the office, and set
it on the floor. It was not a large box, nor heavy, just a small box with strips nailed across
the top, and there was an Angora cat in it. It was a fine, large Angora cat, but it was dead.

Flannery looked at the tag that was nailed on the side of the box. "Ye'd betther git th' waggon,
Timmy," he said slowly, "an' proceed with th' funeral up t' Missus Warman's. This be no weather
for perishable goods t' be lyin' 'round th' office. Quick speed is th' motto av th' Interurban
Ixpriss Company whin th' weather is eighty-four in th' shade. An', Timmy," he called as the
boy moved toward the door, "make no difficulty sh'u'd she insist on receiptin' fer th' goods
as bein' damaged. If nicissary take th' receipt fer 'Wan long-haired cat, damaged.' But make
haste. 'Tis in me mind that sh'u'd ye wait too long Missus Warman will not be receivin' th'
consignment at all. She's wan av th' particular kind, Timmy."

In half an hour Timmy was back. He came into the office lugging the box, and let it drop on
the floor with a thud.

"She won't take no damaged cats," said Timmy shortly.

Mike Flannery laid his pen on his desk with almost painful slowness and precision. Slowly he
slid off his chair, and slowly he picked up his cap and put it on his head. He did not say
a word. His brow was drawn into deep wrinkles, and his eyes glittered as he walked up to the
box with almost supernaturally stately tread and picked it up. His lips were firmly set as
he walked out of the office into the hot sun. Timmy watched him silently.

In less than half an hour Mike Flannery came into the office again, quietly, and set the box
silently on the floor. Noiselessly he hung up his cap on the nail above the big calendar back
of the counter. He sank into his chair and looked for a long while at the blank wall opposite him.

"An' t' think," he said at last, like one still wrapped in a great blanket of surprise, "t'
think she didn't swear wan cuss th' whole time! Thim ladies is wonderful folks! I wonder did
she say th' same t' ye as she said t' me, Timmy?"

"Sure she did," said Timmy, grinning as usual.

"Will ye think of that, now!" said Flannery with admiration. "'Tis a grand constitution she
must be havin', that lady. Twice in wan afternoon! I wonder could she say th' same three times?
'Tis not possible."

He ran his hand across his forehead and sighed, and his eyes fell on the box. It was still
where he had put it, but he seemed surprised to see it there. He had no recollection of anything
after Mrs. Warman had begun to talk. He picked up his pen again.

"Interurban Express Co., New York," he wrote. "Consiny Mrs. Warman wont reciev cat way bill
23645 Hibbert and Jones consinor cat is--"

He grinned and ran the end of the pen through his stubble of red hair.

"What is th' swell worrd fer dead, Timmy?" he asked. "I'm writin' a letter t' th' swell clerks
in New Yorrk that be always guyin' me about me letters, an' I 'll hand thim a swell worrd fer
wance."

"Deceased," said Timmy, grinning.

"'Tis not that wan I was thinkin' of," said Flannery, "but that wan will do. 'Tis a high-soundin'
worrd, deceased."

He dipped his pen in the ink again.

"--cat is diseased," he wrote. "Pleas give disposal. Mike Flannery."

When the New York office of the Interurban Express Company received Flannery's letter they
called up Hibbert & Jones on the telephone. Hibbert & Jones was the big department store, and
it was among the Interurban's best customers. When the Interurban could do it a favour it was
policy to do so, and the clerk knew that sending a cat back and forth by rail was not the best
thing for the cat, especially if the cat was diseased.

"That cat," said the manager of the live-animal department of Hibbert & Jones, "was in good
health when it left here, absolutely, so far as we know. If it was not it is none of our business.
Mrs. Warman came in and picked the cat out from a dozen or more, and paid for it. It is her
cat. It doesn't interest us any more. And another thing: You gave us a receipt for that cat
in good order; if it was damaged in transit it is none of our affair, is it?"

"Owner's risk," said the Interurban clerk. "You know we only accept live animals for transportation
at owner's risk."

"That lets us out, then," said the Hibbert & Jones clerk. "Mrs. Warman is the owner. Ring off,
please."

Westcote is merely a suburb of New York, and mails are frequent, and Mike Flannery found a
letter waiting for him when he opened the office the next morning. It was brief. It said:

"Regarding cat, W.B. 23645, this was sent at owner's risk, and Mrs. Warman seems to be the
owner. Cat should be delivered to her. We are writing her from this office, but in case she
does not call for it immediately, you will keep it carefully in your office. You had better
have a veterinary look at the cat. Feed it regularly."

Mike Flannery folded the letter slowly and looked down at the cat. "Feed it!" he exclaimed.
"I wonder, now, was that a misprint fer fumigate it, fer that is what it will be wantin' mighty
soon, if I know anything about deceased cats. I wonder do thim dudes in New Yorrk be thinkin,
th' long-haired cat is only fainted, mebby? Do they think they see Mike Flannery sittin' be
th' bedside av th' cat, fannin' it t' bring it back t' consciousness? Feed it! Niver in me
life have I made a specialty av cats, long-haired or short-haired, an' I do not be pretindin'
t' be a profissor av cats, but 'tis me sittled belief that whin a cat is as dead as that wan
is it stops eatin'."

He looked resentfully at the cat in the box.

"I wonder sh'u'd I put th' late laminted out on th' back porrch till th' veterinary comes t'
take its pulse? I wonder what th' ixpriss company wants a veterinary t' butt into th' thing
fer annyhow? Is it th' custom nowadays t' require a certificate av health fer every cat that
's as dead as that wan is before th' funeral comes off? Sure, I do believe th' ixpriss company
has doubts av Mike Flannery's ability t' tell is a cat dead or no. Mebby 'tis thrue. Mebby
so. But wan thing I'm dang sure av, an' that is that sh'u'd the weather not turrn off t' a
cold wave by to-morry mornin' 't will take no coroner t' know th' cat is dead."

He opened the letter again and reread it. As he did so the scowl on his face increased. He
held up the letter and slapped it with the back of his hand.

"'Kape it carefully in your office,'" he read with scorn. "Sure! An' what about Flannery? Does
th' man think I'm t' sit side be side with th' dead pussy cat an' thry t' work up me imagination
t' thinkin' I'm sittin' in a garden av tuberoses? 'Tis well enough t' say kape it, but cats
like thim does not kape very well. Th' less said about th' way they kapes th' betther."

Timmy entered the office, and as he passed the box he sniffed the air in a manner that at once
roused Flannery's temper.

"Sthop that!" he shouted. "I'll have none av yer foolin' t'-day. What fer are ye puckerin'
up yer nose at th' cat fer? There's nawthin' th' matther with th' cat. And not only known,
but so was given as a marriage in the more or less distant. Passed months, however, and that
is not a step forward. The testimonies given by Gonzalo his love remained the same. Most of
the days were reduced to happen next eating in front of the house of a wealthy merchant, to
go to the casino. Cecilia used to be sewing behind glass. His hat, smile, go ahead, then the
pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice more errands for Don Rosendo, but had
the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say good luck, because Gonzalo trembled before
the idea of ​​going up to the house and tripped over Cecilia.

Had already served twenty years. The idea of ​​becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in
something useful, occasionally returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which
turned from a military academy, the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt
in the casino I heard about that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly the desire. Finally,
one day he told his uncle that if he gave permission was going to England to study something and
see the world. As Don Melchor nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo
ran a few days after the houses of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot,
to say goodbye, and a peaceful and beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound
for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know.

In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions takes time to turn, although in the end
cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was
determined to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying
long lasting memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively
emotion. Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with the
green of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all, through
their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species extinguished,
Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly made
flesh in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. ""
Do you hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they were
delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but her eyes do,
especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and simple, the tone of voice, exquisite
delicacy, entirely female manners. "I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he judged
it impossible to dare to tell it not to miss any single word love. Until then I did not know
of such passion that the appearance and coarse material, the fleeting relationships, and sad that
women forced by night in the streets of London and Paris.

One day writing a close friend of Sarrió came up asking if Cecilia Belinchón had married. Then
said it was still single and that if it was true that some the haunted suitors enticed perhaps
by the money rather than Belinchón thank your daughter, until now no one knew who had given
ear to anyone. As you read this, you raised the blood to the face to the industrial engineer.
He had the conceit to think (to be exempted by God) Cecilia rejected the suitors in your hand
... because none was so handsome as him. Then imagine declare his love letter. Being so far
away would not shame. However, had it, and when he tried to take the pen to do so, before drawing
the first line, turned to leave when they represented the surprise that the young receive. It was
a few days. The idea never left him. By a thousand subtle reasoning tried to persuade to write the
love letter. If you laughed at him, what? did not see him. With never to return to Sarriówas
concluded, and if she would try and find it not front. At last he wrote. Took hold of it stored
in his desk drawer for several days. The idea of send it off was terrified. To decide this,
needed to drink a few glasses of rum. When he was a little dizzy took the letter from the drawer,
threw himself into the streets with verve, and mailbox first encountered
your eyes, zap! the fit.

My God, what have I done! Vanished as drunkenness. Flushed to the ears, as if through the hole
that you mailbox were looking mocking eyes of all neighbors Sarrió, and hastened to put your
fingers on it to see if it could catch the ill-fated envelope. Nothing. It had been engulfed with
the voracity of a shark, and I was already digested.

Then occurred to be in the post office and claim it, but there demanded such formalities, before
passing them preferred to let fortune.

He spent eight days in great distress. When the cards are dealt at the inn, he felt an anxiety
that stifled him, expecting to reach the packet enclosed in a huge, ugly pumpkins, just punishment
and its too much bullshit. Passed, however, eight days and even fifteen, and the answer did not
appear. It was calming with the vague hope that the letter had not reached its destination. If reached,
the illusion that forjábase Cecilia would have broken without informing anyone. But behold,
when I did not expect, is at lunchtime on the plate a letter from Spain, female unknown letter.
Is unrepresentable the anguish which assailed him. She got as white as the tablecloth. The heart
wanted saltársele chest.

Opened it with trembling hands ... Ahaa! sighed rested, after having eaten in two seconds.
She took his hand to his chest, limpióse sweat with a handkerchief, and resumed the letter and
reread it in stride.

It was, in fact, Cecilia, and was written in a gently ironic tone, that had nothing, however, offensive.
Manifestábase surprised at his sudden and unexpected return. What fly had stung after four
years of absence? His parents, who before her had opened the letter, were equally surprised,
thought it was a step thoughtless own a few years, a whim of the
moment, which probably would already be sorry.

She shared this view entirely. However, had permitted and even recommended to answer, because
it is a young villager, whose family maintained relations friendship.

This letter will soon put thrilled. No pumpkins were dismissive expected. Then he grew sad and happy
the minute again, reading and rereading it to see if it gave in the key. Were or were not pumpkins?
Hastened to reply, apologizing for his boldness, and confirmed its previous statement with new
and vehement phrases. He replied after some days the child in a more soft and affectionate. Turned
to writing Gonzalo; cruzáronse portraits Dona Paula intervened. In short, after a short time,
were two young men in relation formal.

He began to talk of marriage between Don Melchor half letter and
his nephew, then visits between the former and Don Rosendo.

Finally everything was settled, agreeing that the Gonzalo return
spring, and he performed the marriage.

III

THE COUPLE IN LOVE BEGINS TO THINK IN THE NEST

Out of the theater and those who remained. Gonzalo stumbled upon the wave of people who vomited
the door, and as was recognized, were quick to surround you and greet
old friends.

The first threw her arms around his neck was Don Mateo, then came Don Pedro Miranda Parakeet child,
then Mayor Roque after Victoriano and his wife Dona Rosario and his three daughters. In an instant
circle was formed around the young, who rushed to respond warmly
to the congratulations, hugs and handshakes that all sites will came.

The sailors, the village women took part in those manifestations of affection as well as the
gentlemen.

Nothing was heard but exclamations of wonder and joy.

- How have you gained weight, Gonzalito .-- What a real boy! - Why do not you grow like him,
parakeet? - Don Gonzalo, soups do you eat them in the head at all
.-- Growing Sarrió porters has grown what he has done is to double
the body .-- Come, grenadier, give me a tight hug.

A skipper said it seemed like a drop of water to another Prince of Wales. Gonzalo was perhaps a little
higher.

The hulk of this robust, towered over the group. Clasped hands above their heads friends who
could not reached him, and his noble and kindly face smiling at everyone.

Don Mateo, rising on the toes and swinging the arm to bend, could say in his ear:

- What role have you lost, Gonzalo! Too bad you did not come in the afternoon. The treble sang
like an angel ... And dancing! ... The dance I say, boy, that neither in the Coruña Bilbao
or better take it out ... But be not wroth, and I will repeat before he leaves the company ...
or have little power.

But Gonzalez did not attend.

Staring at the door, waiting for the restless and eager output Belinchón
family, who as principal and the most haughty, was delayed always
not to be confused with the populace.

In order to light the lantern burning on the framework the door,
he saw the face of Dona Paula and then that of Cecilia.

Tremulous Abalanzóse to greet them. The daughter blushed like a turkey (of course), and the
mother too (this is less natural). What had to do to him? Blush also, and this was what led out
in a perfect way. Three were trembling voice, and after asking for health, did not know what
to say. Loaded glances of curious people contributed in pregnant
women.

Pablito happily came to Ventura, who had left behind, and our young greeted warmly and directed
first to the second one ceremonial pitch.

Paul smiled.

- What, do you not know? Ventura is my sister.

- Oh! How could he know? She is a woman ... How are you, Ventura?

The girl reached for him with a malicious and mocking speech that you just embarrass you.

They stood up to the house.

Venturita ran ahead dragging his brother. Marched behind Dona Paula, Cecilia, Gonzalo. Rosendo
brought up the rear with his good friend Pedro Miranda. The streets were dark. Only those hours
burning lanterns corner. The distance between the three groups was becoming larger.

Gonzalo began making desperate efforts to hold the conversation with your future wife and mother,
but it is not opened his mouth, dominated, no doubt, shame, and Dona Paula walked very far
from being a Madame de Stael. Nor had helped him Conversation Dictionary, the result was that
it did not prosper. By letters had come to trust. Dona Paula often put postscripts in Cecilia. Gonzalo
replied with a wisecrack, ordered prints, caricatures for Ventura, and carried around as a member
of the family. But now the three experienced discomfort embarrassing. Our young in his life he had
spoken with Mrs. Belinchón, and Cecilia had only crossed the words we said. Then, up ahead,
Venturita laughed out loud with his brother, and boyfriends reasonably presumed that they were
on the table. However, when approached, home, the conversation was taking heat and had some symptoms
to believe that soon would king's confidence.

Formosa group to the door of the house of lords Belinchón, which was
located in la Rúa Nueva, the main street Sarrió, and was large and
sumptuous for which there stylish.

As Gonzalo had not eaten yet, Rosendo invited him up to do with them
so true, and with words so pressing that the young man who wanted
nothing, he concluded to accept.

They took leave Mr. Miranda and his son Parakeet, and the family Belinchón with the new guy was
going to be part of it, went to the house. At the reception, the ladies took off their coats and shawls.
The light returned to upsetting them.

Gonzalo could well then see his girlfriend, and noted that he had not won anything in years of
absence. Was higher, but also thinner. The love does not get fat girls. The nose, with this,
had been even more pronounced. Only those beautiful eyes, smooth, intelligent, persisted to
shine like two stars. The transformation of Venturita girl who looked cross for school, clinging
to the maid to keep jumping over him attracted wide attention. She was a woman, a real woman, not so
much height, as roundness and breadth of forms, for the singular strength of his vision and Malicious certain
glow that accompanied it. Examináronse both as two strangers in a quick glance. Gonzalo said
under his breath at Dona Paula:

- What a change the Venturita! It's a beautiful girl.

For lower than what the girl said she heard it.

Became serious with involvement, made a slight grimace of contempt
with their lips, and went right to the dining room, hiding the pleasant
tingling that this compliment had caused so spontaneous.

The table was set: a table patriarchal province, abundant, clean, without flowers or the other
elegant refinements that civilization is introduced. And to approach it, Gonzalo's pregnancy
was missing. It seemed that yesterday I had dinner there too. A gust blew joy to everyone. Cambiáronse
words and laughter. Gonzalo embraced Pablito and asked for their horses. Dona Paula managed the
distribution of silverware. Venturita sitting and, downed olives, tossing the bones to his sister
and making provocative winks, while she, with flushed cheeks and bright eyes, put her finger
to lips asking for discretion.

Don Rosendo had gone to put on your gown and cap, without which it
would have hurt dinner.

His wife invited the young stranger to sit in the neighbor set that
of Cecilia.

But it had happened at the other end of the table, and there was
about to sit.

- What are you doing, girl?

Why do not you come to your site? - Dona Paula asked with surprise.

The young man stood up without reply, blushed, and sat down next to
her boyfriend.

The classic soup steamed with eggs and butter in the center of the table.

- Look, do dish Gonzalo ... Already beginning to serve you - you said
after smiling kindly as a woman who professed similar ideas to those
expressed by St. Paul in his famous letter.

Cecilia hurried to obey, filling the bowl of his future. This had
usually an excellent appetite, appropriate to his great humanity.
Now, over-excited by the air sea ​​and a few hours of fasting, was
voracious. Ate without leaving crumbs without any timidity, the placed
before him, and that Cecilia, as may be supposed, had no short-hand
to help you. When she began to eat, lost Gonzalo shame. The urgent
need for your body gigantea was essential. In contrast, Cecilia barely
touched on the food. Displaying on your plate two bits of ham the
size of two walnuts, and asked the young man

- Who do you make this
dish, for the parrot?

- No, it's for me.

- Are not you afraid that
you indigestion?

It was the first joke authorizing its future. This
said with a smile:

- Never more.

Dona Paula put his mouth to ear
Venturita, and said:

- Can not you deal with what ceremony?

Venturita
it whispered to Paul, and he to his father. All four burst out laughing,
looking the couple, while they, confused, asked to view the reason
for this sudden joy.

- Mom, do you want to tell them what we laugh?

-
Tell him.

- Well, gentlemen, we all thought that you could be dismounted
treatment.

The future spouses dropped his head and smiled.
How t' feed an' water dead cats av th' long-haired kind I may not know, an' how t' live with
dead cats I may not know, but whin t' bury dead cats I do know, an' there be plinty av other
jobs where a man is not ordered t' dig up forty-siven acres t' find a cat that was buried none
too soon at that!"

"What's that?" said the inspector. "Is that cat dead?"

"An' what have I been tellin' th' dudes in th' head office all th' while?" asked Flannery with
asperity. "What but that th' late deceased dead cat was defunct an' no more? An' thim insultin'
an honest man with their 'Have ye stholen th' cat out av th' box, Flannery, an' put in an inferior
short-haired cat?' I want no more av thim! Here's the key. Good day t' ye!"

"Hold on," said the inspector, putting his hand on Flannery's arm. "You don't go yet. I 'll
have a look at your cash and your accounts first. What you say about that cat may be true enough,
but we have got to have proof of it. That was a valuable cat, that was. It was an Angora cat,
a real Angora cat. You've got to produce that cat before we are through with you."

"Projuce th' cat!" said Flannery angrily. "Th' cat is safe an' sound in th' back lot. I presint
ye with th' lot. If 't is not enough fer ye, go awn an' do th' dirthy worrk ye have t' do awn
me. I'll dig no more fer th' cat."

The inspector unlocked the door and entered the office. It was hot with the close heat of a
room that has been locked up overnight. Just inside the door the inspector stopped and sniffed
suspiciously. No express office should have smelled as that one smelled.

"Wan minute!" cried Flannery, pulling away from the inspector's grasp. "Wan minute! I have
a hint there be a long-haired cat near by. Wance ye have been near wan av thim ye can niver
mistake thim Angora cats. I w'u'd know th' symbol av thim with me eyes shut. 'T is a signal
ye c'u'd tell in th' darrk."

He hurried to the back door. The cat was there, all right. A little deader than it had been,
perhaps, but it was there on the step, long hair and all.

"Hurroo!" shouted Flannery. "An' me thinkin' I w'u'd niver see it again! Can ye smell th' proof,
Misther Inspictor? 'T is good sthrong proof fer ye! An' I sh'u'd have knowed it all th' while.
Angora cats I know not be th' spicial species, an' th' long-haired breed av cats is not wan
I have associated with much, an' cats so dang dead as this wan I do not kape close in touch
with, ginerally, but all cats have a grrand resimblance t' cats. Look at this wan, now. 'T
is just like a cat. It kem back."

II

THE THREE HUNDRED

There was a certain big sort of masterfulness about the president of the Interurban Express
Company that came partly from his natural force of character and partly from the position he
occupied as head of the company, and when he said a thing must be done he meant it. In his
own limited field he was a bigger man than the President of the United States, for he was not
only the chief executive of the Interurban Express Company, but he made its laws as well. He
could issue general orders turning the whole operation of the road other end to as easily as
a national executive could order the use of, let us say, a simplified form of spelling in a
few departments of the Government. He sat in the head office of the company at Franklin and
said "Let this be done," and, in every suburban town where the Interurban had offices, that
thing was done, under pain of dismissal from the service of the company. Even Flannery, who
was born rebellious, would scratch his red hair in the Westcoate office and grumble and then
follow orders.

Old Simon Gratz came into the president's office one morning and sat himself into a vacant
chair with a grunt of disapprobation, the same grunt of disapprobation that had been like saw-filing
to the nerves of the president for many years, and the president immediately prepared to contradict
him, regardless of what it might be that Simon Gratz disapproved of. It happened to be the
simplified spelling. He waved the morning paper at the president and wanted to know what he
thought of this outrageous thing of chopping off the tails of good old English words with an
official carving-knife, ruining a language that had been fought and bled for at Lexington,
and making it look like a dialect story, or a woman with two front teeth out.

It rather strained the president sometimes to think of a sound train of argument against Simon
Gratz at a moment's notice. Sometimes he had to abandon the beliefs of a lifetime in order
to take the other side of a proposition that Simon Gratz announced unexpectedly, and it was
still harder to get up an enthusiasm for one side of a thing of which he had never heard, as
he sometimes had to do; but he was ready to meet Simon Gratz on either side of the simplified
spelling matter, for he had read about it himself in the morning paper. It had seemed a rather
unimportant matter until Simon Gratz mentioned it, but now it immediately became a thing of
the most intimate concern.

"What do I think?" he asked. "I think it is the grandest thing--the most sensible thing--the
greatest step forward that has been taken for centuries. That is what I think. It is a revolution!
That is what I think, Mr. Gratz."

He swung around in his chair and struck his desk with his fist to emphasize his words. Mr.
Gratz, whose opinions were the more obnoxious because he was a stockholder of the company,
sniffed. The way he had of sniffing was like a red rag to a bull, and he meant it as such.
The president accepted it in the spirit in which it was meant. He said: "Bah!"

"I will tell you what it is," said Mr. Gratz, pushing his chin up at the president. "It is
the most idiotic--"

"Don't tell me!" cried Mr. Smalley. "I don't want you to tell me anything! What do you know
about the English language, anyhow? 'Gratz!' That is a pretty name for a man who pretends to
have a right to say how the English language shall be spelled! Don't I know your history, Mr.
Gratz? Don't I know you had your name changed from Gratzensteinburgher? And you pretend to
be worried because our President and the most talented men in the country want to drop a few
useless letters out of a measly three hundred words! I tell you these changes in spelling should
have been made long ago. Long ago. This is the business man's age, Mr. Gratz-and-the-rest-of-it.
Yes, sir! And you, as a business man, should be proud of this concession made by our most noted
scholars to the needs of the business man."

"Look at 'em!" sneered Mr. Gratz, patting the list of three hundred revised words with his
finger, and shoving the newspaper under Mr. Smalley's nose. "Poor bob-tailed, one-eyed mongrels!
Progress! It is anarchy--impudence--Look at this--'t-h-r-u!' What kind of a word is that? 'T-h-o!'
What kind of a thing is that? What in the world is a 's-i-t-h-e,' I would like to know?"

Mr. Smalley had not been sufficiently interested in the matter of new spelling to save his
morning paper. He had not even read through the list of three hundred words. But he was interested
now. The new spelling had become the thing most dear to his heart, and he pulled the paper
from Mr. Gratz's hand and slapped the list of words warmly.

"Progress! Yes, progress! That is the word. And economy!" he cried. "That is the true American
spirit! That is what appeals to the man who is not a fossil!" This was a delicate compliment
to Mr. Gratz, but Mr. Gratz was so used to receiving compliments when Mr. Smalley was talking
to him that he did not blush with pleasure. He merely got red in the face. "Think of the advantage
of saving one letter in every word that is written in every business office in America?" continued
Mr. Smalley excitedly. "The ink saved by this company alone by dropping those letters will
amount to a thousand dollars a year. And in the whole correspondence of the nation it will
amount to millions! Millions of dollars, in ink alone, to say nothing of the time saved!" He
got out of his chair and began to walk up and down the office, waving his arms. It helped him
to get hot, and he liked to get hot when Mr. Gratz called. It was the only time he indulged
himself. So he always got as hot as he could while he had the chance.

"Yes, sir!" he shouted, while Mr. Gratz sat shrunken down into his chair and watched him with
a teasing smile. "And I will tell you something more. The policy of this company is to be economical.
Yes, sir! And this company is going to adopt the simplified spelling! Going to adopt it right
now! In spite of all the old-fogyism in the world!--Miss Merrill!"

The office-door opened, and a pompadour, followed by a demure young lady, entered the room.
She slipped quietly into a chair beside the president's desk and laid her copy-book on the
slide of the desk and waited while her employer arranged the words in his mind. Her pencil
was delicately poised above the ruled page. While she waited she hit the front of her pompadour
a few improving slaps with her unengaged hand and pulled out the slack of her waist front.

"Take this," said Mr. Smalley sharply. "General Order Number (you can supply the number, Miss
Merrill). To all employees of the Interurban Express Company: On and after this date all employees
of this company will use, in their correspondence and in all other official business, the following
list of three hundred words. By order of the president. Read what you have there."

Miss Merrill ran one hand around her belt--she was the kind of girl that can make her toilet
and do business at the same time--and read:

"'General Order Number Seven Hundred and Nineteen.

"Yes," said the president, tearing a strip from Mr. Gratz's newspaper that he held in his hand.
"Here is the list of words. I want the whole thing mimeographed, and I want you to see that
a copy gets into the hands of every man and woman in our employ: all the offices, here and
on the road. Understand?"

"Yes, sir," she answered, and then she arose, fixed her neck scarf, and went out. Mr. Smalley
took his seat at his desk and began arranging his papers, humming cheerfully.

Mr. Gratz arose and stalked silently out of the office. But when the door was closed behind
him he smiled. One of the members of the "Simplified Spelling Board" was his personal friend.
Mr. Gratz had prevailed upon Mr. Smalley to adopt the new spelling, and he had done so by using
the only means he could use with hope of success.

The next day Mike Flannery, the Westcote agent of the express company, was sitting at his desk
in the express office, carefully spelling out a letter to Mary O'Donnell, on whom his affections
were firmly fixed, when he heard the train from Franklin whistle. He had time to read what
he had written before he went to meet the train, and he glanced over the letter hastily.

"Dearst Mary Odonil," it said, "reply in to yourse i would say i ment no harm when i kised
you last nite it did not mene you was no lady but my feelins got to mutch for me i love you
so how was i to no you wood not like it when i had never tried it on befor if you dont like
it i will let up on that after this but it was the best kiss i ever had--" He stopped to scratch
out the part about its being the best kiss he had ever had, for that seemed, on second thought,
not the best thing to say, and then, as lovers so often do, he tore the whole letter to bits,
and hurried to meet the train.

Flannery came back with a few packages and a couple of the long official envelopes. He dumped
the packages on his counter and tore open the first of the envelopes. It was a mimeograph circular
and had that benzine odor that Flannery had come to associate with trouble, for it meant a
new rule that he must follow, or a change of rates that he must memorize, under penalty of
dismissal. All orders were given under penalty of dismissal, and Flannery had so many rules
and regulations under his red hair that each day he wondered whether he would still be the
Westcote agent at the end of the next.

As he read his forehead wrinkled.

"'Gineral Order Number Sivin Hundred an' noineteen,'" he read slowly. "And is it possible 'tis
only th' sivin hundred an' noineteenth of thim I have been gettin'? I w'u'd have said 't was
th' forty-sivinth thousand gineral order I have had t' learn and memorize. Wheniver th' prisidint,
or th' vice-prisidint, or th' manager, or th' janitor, or th' office-boy at th' head office
has nawthin' else t' do they be thinkin' up a new gineral order t' sind t' Flannery. 'What's
th' news of th' day?' says th' prisidint. 'Nawthin' doin',' says th' janitor. 'Then wake up
and sind Flannery a gineral order t' learn th' Declaration av Indepindince by hearrt,' says
th' prisidint. 'Mebby he do be gittin' lazy!' 'And shall I add on th' Constitution av th' United
States?' says th' janitor. 'Sure!' says th' prisidint, ''t will do Flannery no harm t' be busy.'"

He held the paper out at arm's length and shook his head at it, and then slapped it down on
the counter and gave it his attention.

"'To all imployees av th' Interurban Ixpriss Company,'" he read. "'On an' after this date all
imployees av this company will use, in their correspondince, and in all other official business,
the follyin' list av t'ree hunderd words. By order of th' prisidint.' Sure!" he said. "'Under
penalty av dismissal from th' service av th' company,' as ye might be sayin'!"

He turned to the list of three hundred words and began to read it. As he passed down the list
the frown on his brow deepened. At "anapest" it was a noticeable frown, at "apothem" it became
very pronounced, and at "dieresis" his shaggy red brows nearly covered his eyes, he was frowning
so hard.

"I wonder what th' Interurban Ixpriss Company w'u'd loike me t' be writin' thim on th' subject
av 'ecumenical'?" he said. "Mebby there be some of these here 'edile' and 'egis' things comin'
by ixpriss, and 't will be a foine thing t' know how t' spell thim whin th' con-sign-y puts
in a claim fer damages, but if th' company is goin' t' carry many 'eponyms' and 'esophaguses'
Mike Flannery will be lookin' for another job.--And w'u'd you look at this wan! 'Paleography!'
Thim be nice words t' order th' agints av th' ixpriss company t' be usin'!"

He pulled at a lock of his hair thoughtfully.

"I wonder, now," he said, "do they want Mike Flannery t' learn all thim words by hearrt, and
use thim all. Should I be usin' thim all in one letter, or distribute thim throughout th' correspondince,
or what? 'T is a grand lot of worrds if I only knew what anny of thim meant, but 't will be
hard t' find a subject t' write on t' run in this word of 'homonym.' There has not been one
of thim about th' office since Mike Flannery has been here."

But his duty was plain, and he took his varnish pot and pasted the list on the wall beside
his desk where he could refer to it instantly, and then he slid on to his high stool to write
the acknowledgment of the receipt of the list.

"Interurban Express Co., Franklin. Gentelmen," he wrote, "I receved the genral order 719 and
will oba it but I will have to practise v. and n. awhile first, some of the words dont come
natural to me off hand like polyp and estivate. what is the rate on these if any comes exprest.
whats a etiology, pleas advice me am I to use all these words or only sum. Mike Flannery."

He sealed this with the feeling that he had done well indeed for a first time. He had worked
in "practise v. and n." and "exprest," and, if the head office should complain that he had
not used enough of the words in the list, he could point to "polyp" and "estivate" and "etiology."
It was slow work, for he had to look up each word he used before writing it, to see whether
it was on the list or not, but generally it was not, and that gave him full liberty to spell
it in any of the three or four simplified ways he was used to employing.

Then he turned to his letter to Mary O'Donnell. His buoyancy was somewhat lessened in this
second attempt by the necessity of looking up each word as he used it, and he was working his
way slowly, and had just told her he was sorry he had "kist" her ("kist" was in the three hundred),
and that it had been because he had "fagot" himself ("fagot" was in the list also), when a
man entered the office and laid a package on the counter.

Flannery slid from his stool and went to the counter. The man was Mr. Warold of the Westcote
Tag Company, and the package was a bundle of tags that he wished to send by express. They were
properly done up, for Mr. Warold sent many packages by express. It was addressed to the "Phoenix
Sulphur Company, Armourville, Pa." It was marked "Collect" and "Keep Dry." It was a nice package,
done up in a masterly manner, and the tags were to fill a rush order from the sulphur company.

Flannery pulled the package across the counter, and was about to drop it on the scales when
the "Collect" caught his eye, and he held out his hand to Mr. Warold.

"Have ye brung th' receipt-book with ye?" he asked.

Mr. Warold felt in his coat-pocket. He had forgotten to bring the receipt book, and Flannery
drew a pad of blank receipts toward himself, and dipped a pen into the ink. Then he looked
at the address.

"'Pho-e-nix,'" he read slowly. "That do be a queer sort av a worrd, Mr. Warold. 'Pho-e-nix!'
Is it a man's name, I dunno?"

"Feenix," pronounced Mr. Warold, grinning.

Flannery was writing carefully with his tongue clasped firmly between his teeth, but he stopped
and looked up.

"'T is an odd way t' spell a worrd av that same pronownciation," he said, and then, suddenly,
he laid down his pen and turned to the list of three hundred words that was pasted beside his desk.

"Oh, ho!" he exclaimed, when he had run his finger down the list, and then he ran it still
farther and said it again, and more vigorously, and turned back to Mr. Warold. He shook his
head and pushed the package across to Mr. Warold.

"Tek it back home, Mr. Warold," he said, "and change th' spellin' of th' worrds on th' address
av it. 'T is agin th' rules av th' ixpriss company as it is. There be no 'o' in th' feenix
av th' Interurban Ixpriss Company. P-h-e-n-i-x is th' improved and official spellin' av th'
worrd, and th' rules av th' company is agin lettin' any feenixes with an 'o' in thim proceed
into th' official business av th' company. And th' same of that 'Sulphur' worrd. It has been
improved and fixed up accordin' to gineral order number sivin hunderd and noineteen, and th'
way t' spell it is 'S-u-l-f-u-r,' and no other way goes across th' counter av th' ixpriss company
whilst Mike Flannery runs it. And th' ixpriss company will have none of your 'Armourville,'
Mr. Warold. There be no 'u' in th' worrd as 'tis simplified by th' order av th' prisidint av
th' Interurban."

Mr. Warold looked at the package and then at Flannery, and gasped. He was slow to anger, and
slow in all ways, and it took him fully two minutes to let Flannery's meaning trickle into
his brain. Then he pushed the package across to Flannery again and laughed.

"That is all right," he said. "I read all about the simplified spelling in the papers, and
if your company wants to adopt it, it is none of my business, but this has nothing to do with
that. This is the name of a company, and the name of a town, and companies and towns have a
right to spell their names as they choose. That--why, everybody knows that!"

"Sure they have th' right," admitted Flannery pleasantly, but pushing the package slowly toward
Mr. Warold; "sure they have! But not in th' ixpriss office av th' Interurban. 'T is agin th'
rules t' spell any feenixes with an 'o' in th' ixpriss office, or any sulphurs with a 'ph,'
or any armours with a 'u.' Thim spellin's and two hunderd an' ninety-sivin more are agin th'
rules, and can't go. Packages that has thim on can't go. Nawthin' that has thim in thim or
on thim or about thim can't go. Gineral order number sivin--"

"Look here," said Mr. Warold slowly. "I tell you, Flannery, that those words are the names
of a company--"

"An' I tell ye," said Flannery, holding the package away from him with a firm hand, "that rules
is rules, and gineral orders is worse than rules, an' thim spellin's can't go."

Mr. Warold flushed. He put his hand opposite to Flannery's hand on the package and pushed with
an equal firmness.

"I offer this package for shipment," he said with a trace of anger beginning to show in his
voice. "I offer it to you just as it is; spelled as it is; and without change or anything else.
This express company is a common carrier, under the Interstate Commerce Law, and it cannot
refuse to take this package, spelling or no spelling. That is the law!"

"I have no quarrel with th' intercommerce state law, Mr. Warold, sir," said Flannery with dignity,
"and 'tis none of my business, sir. But th' spellin' of th' English language is, for 't is
my duty by gineral order number sivin hunderd and noineteen t' spell three hundred worrds with
th' proper simplification, and spell thim I will, and so will all that does business with Mike
Flannery from sivin A.M. till nine P.M. Worrds that is not in th' three hunderd ye may spell
as ye please, Mr. Warold, for there be no rule agin it, and in conversation or correspondince
with Mike Flannery, before th' hour av sivin and after th' hour av nine, ye may spell as ye
please, and I will do th' same, for thin I am off duty; but durin' th' office hours th' whole
dang list from 'abridgment' t' 'wrapt' must be spelled accordin' t' orders. Yis, sir, 'polyp'
and 'dactyl' and th' whole rist av thim. So tek th' package an' change th' address like a good
man."

Mr. Warold glared at Flannery, and then turned to the door. He took one or two stiff strides,
and then turned back. Anger was well enough as a luxury, but the Phoenix Sulphur Company had
telegraphed for the tags, and business was a necessity. The tags must go out by the first train.
He leaned over the counter and smiled at Flannery. Flannery glared back.

"See here, now, Flannery," he said gently, "you don't want to get into trouble with the United
States Government, do you? And maybe get yourself and your president and every employee and
officer of your company in jail for no one knows how long, do you? Well, then, just telegraph
to your president and ask him whether he makes an exception in favour of the old spelling of
names of companies, will you? That will do no harm. Tell him a package is offered, and tell
him the address, and let him decide."

Flannery considered a moment and then took his telegraph pad.

"President Interurban, Franklin," he wrote, "Shall i take pakag for Phoenix Sulphur Company,
Armourdale. Anser quick. Westcote."

He ran across the street with it and came back. The head office had a direct wire, and the
answer came a minute after Flannery reached the waiting Mr. Warold.

"Westcote. Give fuller particulars. Name consignor. Contents. Objection to receiving. (Signed)
Franklin."

Flannery showed the message to Mr. Warold, and then took up his pen again.

"President Interurban, Franklin," he wrote, "Consinor Westcote tag company, tags in it. o is
in phenix and ph in sulfur and u in armordale. Westcote."

The president sitting in his private office, received the message and wrinkled his brow as
he read it. Telegraphing does not always improve the legibility of a message. As the message
reached the president it read:

"Consinor westcote tag company tag sis in it oisin phenix phin sulfur uin armordale."

The president reached for his pile of various code-books and looked up the strange words. He
found "phoenix" in one codebook with its meaning given as "extremely ill, death imminent."
"Oisin" was not given, but the word "oisanite" was, and the meaning of that the code stated
to be "five hundred head prime steers." It was enough. The Interurban did not wish to accept
the transportation of five hundred extremely ill steers, whose death was imminent.

"Westcote, refuse consignment absolutely. Write particulars," he wired.

Flannery showed the telegram to Mr. Warold, who would have sworn, if swearing had been his
custom, but it was not. He took the package of tags and went back to his office and did the
tags up in smaller bundles and sent them by mail with a special delivery stamp on each lot,
and charged the cost to the Interurban. Then he wrote a long and fervid letter to the president
of the Interurban, in which he gave his opinion of the simplified spelling, and particularly
of a man who would interpolate it into business by the power of his personal fiat.

And Flannery wrote too.

"President Interurban, Franklin," he wrote, "i sent warold away with his tags pakag as you
say to. he is mad I gess he will try to make trubbel. i tole him we coud not acsept pakags
addrest to Phoenix Sulphur Company Armourdale and it made him mad. no falt of mine. i ast him
to leve out o out of phoenix and to yous f insted of ph in sulphur and too take that u out
of armourdale agreeble to generl order numbr 719 and he wont do it. no falt of mine. i got
to spell rite when the rules sa so. no falt of mine. i aint makin rules i sais to him. pres
of interurban is responssibel how we spel. i onnly spel as he sais too. Flannery."

The president received the two letters in the same mail. He read that of Mr. Warold first,
and when he came to a threat to sue the company, he frowned. This was all new to him. There
was nothing in the letter about five hundred indisposed cattle of any kind. He looked up Flannery's
telegrams, but they cast no light on it. Then he opened Flannery's letter and read it. He got
up and began walking up and down his office, stopping now and then to shake the fist in which
he had crumpled Flannery's letter. Then he called for Miss Merrill.

She came, carrying her notebook in one hand and fixing a comb in the back of her hair with
the other.

"Take this!" said the president angrily. "Flannery, Westcote--" He tramped back and forth,
trying to condense all the bitterness that boiled in him into telling words.

"You are a fool!" he said at length, meaning Flannery and not Miss Merrill.

Then he thought a while. Having said that, there was not much stronger that he could say. He
had reached his climax too soon.

"Scratch that out," he said, and began walking again. He looked at Flannery's letter and scowled.

Miss Merrill waited patiently. It gave her an opportunity to primp.

"Never mind, Miss Merrill," said the president finally. "I will call you later." He was wondering
whether he should discharge Flannery, or issue Webster's Unabridged as General Order Number
720, or what he should do.

And Flannery went on with his letter to Mary O'Donnell, for it was a work of several days with
him. A love-letter was alone enough to worry him, but, when he had to think of things to say
and still keep one eye on the list of three hundred words, his thoughts got away from him before
he could find whether they had to be put in simplified words or in the good old go-as-you-please
English that he usually wrote.

He was sitting at the desk when a messenger from the head office came in. The messenger had
been sent down to Westcote by the president, and had just been across to the tag company to
fix things up with Mr. Warold. He had fixed them, and the lever he had used was a paper he
held in his hand. It had mollified Mr. Warold.

As the messenger entered, Flannery looked up from his letter, and he smiled with pleasure.
He was glad to see some one from the head office. He wanted information about some of the words
he was ordered to use. He was puzzled about "stript." Did it mean "striped" or "stripped"?
And was "tost" the kind of toast you eat or the kind you drink? And how about that funny-looking
combination of letters "thru," and a dozen others?

"I'm glad t'see th' sight av ye," he said, holding out his hand, "for I do be wantin' some
help on these three hunderd worrds th' prisidint has been simplifyin' down. 'T is a turrible
job they be, thim three hunderd! Some av thim I never will be after learnin'. Look at this,
now," he said, putting his finger on "orthopedic." "And this wan," he said, touching "esophagus."
"Thim be tough wans! But it's thankful I am there be but three hunderd av thim. There w'u'd
be no ind t' th' day's worrk sh'u'd th' prisidint take a notion t' reforrm th' whole dic-shunnery.
If he was t' shorten all th' worrds in th' English language, I w'u'd have a long job av it,
niver knowin' whin th' worrds was spelled right or wrong. They be a powerful increase of worrk,
thim three hunderd worrds. Take this wan, now--'thoroly'--'t is a bird, that wan is! But Flannery
will stick t' th' list!"

The messenger laid the paper he had been holding upon Flannery's desk.

"I will be needin' an assistant sh'u'd th' prisidint promulgate any more worrds like thim,"
said Flannery; "and I w'u'd recommind he be Corbett or Sullivan or wan of th' other sluggers,
for th' patrons av th' company be not all easy-goin' like Mr. Warold. But progress is th' worrd
of th' day, and I stand for shorter worrds, no matter how much extry worrk they mek. Th' prisidint
has a great head on him."

He opened the paper on his desk and read it.

"General Order Number Seven Hundred and Twenty:

"To all employees of the Interurban Express Company: Cancel General Order Number Seven Hundred
and Nineteen. By order of the president."

"As I was sayin'," said Flannery, "th' prisidint has a great head on him."

III

FLEAS WILL BE FLEAS

Mike Flannery was the star boarder at Mrs. Muldoon's, and he deserved to be so considered,
for he had boarded with Mrs. Muldoon for years, and was the agent of the Interurban Express
Company at Westcote, while Mrs. Muldoon's other boarders were largely transient.

"Mike," said Mrs. Muldoon, one noon, when Mike came for his lunch, "I know th' opinion ye have
of Dagos, and niver a-one have I took into me house, and I think the same of thim meself--dirthy
things, an' takin' the bread away from th' honest Amercan laborin' man--and I would not be
thinkin' of takin' one t' board at this day, but would ye tell me this:--is a Frinchmin a Dago?"

Flannery raised his knife and laid down the law with it.

"Mrs. Muldoon, mam," he said, "there be two kinds of Frinchmin. There be the respictible Frinchmin,
and there be th' unrespictible Frinchmin. They both be furriners, but they be classed different.
Th' respictible Frinchmin is no worse than th' Dutch, and is classed as Dutch, but th' other
kind is Dagos. There is no harm in th' Dutch Frinchmin, for thim is such as Napoleon Bonnypart
and the like of him, but ye want t' have nawthin' t' do with th' Dago Frinch. They be a bad lot."

"There was a Frinchmin askin' would I give him a room and board, this mornin'," said Mrs. Muldoon.

Flannery nodded knowingly.

"I knowed it!" he cried. "'T was apparent t' me th' minute ye spoke, mam. And agin th' Dutch
Frinch I have nawthin' t' say. If he be a Dutch Frinchmin let him come. Was he that?"

"Sure, I don't know," said Mrs. Muldoon, perplexed. "He was a pleasant-spoken man, enough.
'T is a professor he is."

"There be many kinds of professors," said Mike.

"Sure!" agreed Mrs. Muldoon. "This wan is a professor of fleas."

Mike Flannery grinned silently at his plate.

"I have heard of thim, too!" he said. "But 'tis of insects they be professors, and not of one
kind of insects alone, Mrs. Muldoon, mam. Ye have mistook th' understandin' of what he was sayin'."

"I beg pardon to ye, Mr. Flannery," said Mrs. Muldoon, with some spirit, "but 'tis not mistook
I am. Fleas th' professor said, and no mistake at all."

"Yis?" inquired Flannery. "Well, mebby 'tis so. He would be what ye call one of thim specialists.
They do be doin' that now, I hear, and 'tis probable th' Frinchmin has fleas for his specialty.
'Tis like this, mam:--all professors is professors; then a bunch of professors separate off
from the rest and be professors of insects; and then the professors of insects separate up,
and one is professor of flies, and another one is professor of pinch-bugs, and another is professor
of toads, and another is professor of lobsters, and so on until all the kinds of insects has
each a professor to itself. And them they call specialists, and each one knows more about his
own kind of insect than any other man in th' world knows. So mebbe the Frinchmin is professor
of fleas, as ye say."

"I should think a grown man would want to be professor of something bigger than that," said
Mrs. Muldoon, "but there's no accountin' for tastes."

"If ye understood, mam," said Mike Flannery, "ye would not say that same, for to the flea professor
th' flea is as big as a house. He studies him throo a telescope, Mrs. Muldoon, that magnifies
th' flea a million times. Th' flea professor will take a dog with a flea on him, mam, and look
at th' same with his telescope, and th' flea will be ten times th' size of th' dog."

"'Tis wonderful!" exclaimed Mrs. Muldoon.

"It is so!" agreed Mike Flannery. "But 't is by magnifyin' th' flea that th' professor is able
t' study so small an insect for years and years, discoverin' new beauties every day. One day
he will be studyin' th' small toe of th' flea's left hind foot, and th' next day he will be
makin' a map of it, and th' next he will be takin' a statute of it in plaster, an th' next
he will be photygraftin it, and th' next he will be writin' out all he has learned of it, and
then he will be weeks and months correspondin' with other flea professors in all parts of th'
worrld, seein' how what he has learned about th' little toe of th' flea's left hind foot agrees
with what they have learned about it, and if they don't all agree, he goes at it agin, and
does it all over agin, and mebby he dies when he is ninety years old and has only got one leg
of th' flea studied out. And then some other professor goes on where he left off, and takes
up the next leg."

"And do they get paid for it?" asked Mrs. Muldoon, with surprise.

"Sure, they do!" said Flannery. "Good money, too. A good specialist professor gits more than
an ixpriss agent. And 't is right they sh'u'd," he added generously, "for 't is by studyin'
th' feet of fleas, and such, they learn about germs, and how t' take out your appendix, and
'Is marriage a failure?' and all that."

"Ye dumbfounder me, Mike Flannery," said Mrs. Muldoon. "Ye should have been one of them professors
yourself, what with all the knowledge ye have. And ye think 't would be a good thing t' let
th' little Frinchmin come and take a room?"

"'T would be an honour to shake him by th' hand," said Mike Flannery, and so the professor
was admitted to the board and lodging of Mrs. Muldoon.

The name of the professor who, after a short and unfruitful season at Coney Island, took lodging
with Mrs. Muldoon, was Jocolino. He had shown his educated fleas in all the provinces of France,
and in Paris itself, but he made a mistake when he brought them to America.

The professor was a small man, and not talkative. He was, if anything, inclined to be silently
moody, for luck was against him. He put his baggage in the small bedroom that Mrs. Muldoon
allotted to him, and much of the time he spent in New York. He had fellow countrymen there,
and he was trying to raise a loan, with which to buy a canvas booth in which to show his educated
insects. He received the friendly advances of Flannery and the other boarders rather coldly.
He refused to discuss his specialty, or show Mike the toe of the left hind foot of a flea through
a telescope. When he remained at home after dinner he did not sit with the other boarders on
the porch, but walked up and down the walk, smoking innumerable cigarettes, and thinking, and
waving his hands in mute conversations with himself.

"I dunno what ails th' professor," said Mrs. Muldoon, one evening when she and Flannery sat
at the table after the rest had left it.

Flannery hesitated.

"I would not like to say for sure, mam," he said, slowly, "but I'm thinkin' 't is a loss he
has had, maybe, that's preyin' on his mind. Ever since ye told me, Missus Muldoon, that he
was a professor of th' educated fleas, I have had doubts of th' state of th' mind of th' professor.
Th' sense of studyin' th' flea, mam, I can understand, that bein' th' way all professors does
these days, but 't is not human t' spend time givin' a flea a college education. Th' man that
descinds t' be tutor t' a flea, and t' teach it all th' accomplishments, from readin' and writin'
t' arithmetic and football, mebby, is peculiar. I will say he is dang peculiar, Missus Muldoon,
beggin' your pardon. Is there any coffee left in the pot, mam?"

"A bit, Mr. Flannery, an' you 're welcome t' it."

"I understand th' feelin' that makes a man educate a horse, like that Dutchman I was readin'
about in th' Sunday paper th' other day," said Mike, "and teachin' it t' read an' figger, an'
all that. An' I can see th' sinse of educatin' a pig, as has been done, as you well know, mam,
for there be no doubt a man can love a horse or a pig as well as he can love his own wife--"

"An' why not a flea?" asked Mrs. Muldoon. "'T is natural for an Irishman t' love a pig, if
't is a pig worth lovin', and 't is natural, I make no doubt, for a Dutchman t' love a horse
th' same way, and each t' his own, as th' sayin' is. Mebby th' Frinch can learn t' love th'
flea in th' same way, Mr. Flannery."

"I say th' same, Missus Muldoon," said Flannery, "an' I say th' professor has done that same,
too. I say he has educated th' flea, an' mebby raised it from a baby, and brung it from his
native land, mam, an' taught it, an' learned t' love it. Yes, Missus Muldoon! But if th' educated
horse or th' educated pig got loose would they be easy t' find agin, or would they not, mam?
And if th' professor come t' have a' grrand love for th' flea he has raised by hand, an' taught
like his own son, an' th' flea run off from him, would th' educated flea be easy t' find? Th'
horse an' th' pig is animals that is not easy t' conceal themselves, Missus Muldoon, but th'
flea is harrd t' find, an' when ye have found him he is harrd t' put your thumb on. I'm thinkin'
th' reason th' professor is so down is that he has lost th' flea of his hearrt."

"Poor man!" said Mrs. Muldoon.

"An' th' reason I'm thinkin' so," said Flannery slowly, and leaning toward Mrs. Muldoon across
the table, "is that, if I be not mistaken, Missus Muldoon, th' professor's educated flea spent
last night with Mike Flannery!"

Mrs. Muldoon raised her hands with a gesture of wonderment.

"And listen to that, now!" she cried, in astonishment. "Mike Flannery, do you be thinkin' th'
professor has two of them? Sure, and he must have two of them, for was it not mesilf was thinkin'
all last night I had th' same educated flea for a bed-felly? I would have caught him," she
added, sadly, "but he was too brisk for me."

"There was forty-sivin times I thought I had mine," admitted Flannery, "but every time whin
I took up me thumb he had gone some other place. But I will have him to-night!"

"But mebby he has gone by now," said Mrs. Muldoon.

"Never fear, mam," said Flannery. "He's not gone, mam, for he has been close to me every minute
of th' day. I could put me thumb on him this minute, if he would but wait 'till I did it."

"Well, as for that, Mike Flannery," said Mrs. Muldoon, mischievously, as she arose from the
table, "go on along with ye, and don't be bringin' th' blush t' me face, but whin I want t'
find th' one I was speakin' of, I won't have t' walk away from meself t' find him this minute!"

The trained flea is one of nature's marvels. Everyone says so. A Bobby Burns might well write
a poem on this "wee, timorous, cowerin' beastie," except that the flea is not, strictly speaking,
timorous or cowering. A flea, when it is in good health and spirits, will not cower worth a
cent. It has ten times the bravery of a lion--in fact, one single little flea, alone and unaided,
will step right up and attack the noisiest lion, and never brag about it. A lion is a rank
coward in comparison with a flea, for a lion will not attack anything that it has not a good
chance of killing, while the humble but daring flea will boldly attack animals it cannot kill,
and that it knows it cannot kill. David had at least a chance to kill Goliath, but what chance
has a flea to kill a camel? None at all unless the camel commits suicide. And dogs! A flea
will attack the most ferocious dog and think nothing of it at all. I have seen it myself. That
is true bravery. And not only that--not only will one flea attack a dog--but hundreds of fleas
will attack the same dog at the same time. I have seen that myself, too. And that multiplies
the bravery of the flea just that much. One flea attacking a dog is brave; one hundred fleas
attacking the same dog are therefore one hundred times as brave. We really had to give the
dog away, he was carrying so much bravery around with him all the time.

Think of educating an animal with a brain about the size of the point of a fine needle! And
that was what Professor Jocolino had done. The flea is really one of nature's wonders, like
Niagara Falls, and Jojo the dog-faced man, and the Cañon of the Colorado. Pull? For its size
the educated flea can pull ten times as much as the strongest horse. Jump? For its size the
flea can jump forty times as far as the most agile jack-rabbit. Its hide is tougher than the
hide of a rhinoceros, too. Imagine a rhinoceros standing in Madison Square, in the City of
New York, and suppose you have crept up to it, and are going to pat it, and your hand is within
one foot of the rhinoceros. And before you can bring your hand to touch the beast suppose it
makes a leap, and goes darting through the air so rapidly that you can't see it go, and that
before your hand has fallen to where the rhinoceros was, the rhinoceros has alighted gently
on top of the City Hall at Philadelphia. That will give you some idea of the magnificent qualities
of the flea. If we only knew more of these ordinary facts about things we would love things more.

At the breakfast table the next morning Professor Jocolino sat silent and moody in his place,
his head, bent over his breakfast, but the nine other men at the table eyed him suspiciously.
So did Mrs. Muldoon. There was no question now that Professor Jocolino had lost his educated
flea. There was, in fact, ground for the belief that the professor had had more than one educated
flea, and that he had lost all of them. There was also a belief that, however well trained
the lost might be in some ways, their manners had not been carefully attended to, and that
they had not been trained to be well behaved when making visits to utter strangers. A beast
or bird that will force itself upon the hospitality of an utter stranger unasked, and then
bite its host, may be well educated, but it is not polite. The boarders looked at Professor
Jocolino and frowned. The professor looked stolidly at his plate, and ate hurriedly, and left
the table before the others had finished.

"'T is in me mind," said Flannery, when the professor had left, "that th' professor has a whole
college of thim educated insects, an' that he do be lettin' thim have a vacation. Or mebby
th' class of 1907 is graduated an' turned loose from th' university. I had th' base-ball team
an' th' football gang spendin' th' night with me."

"Ho!" said Hogan, gruffly, "'t was th' fellys that does th' high jump an' th' long jump an'
th' wide jump was havin' a meet on Hogan. An' I will be one of anny ten of us t' tell th' professor
t' call th' scholards back t' school agin. I be but a plain uneducated man, Missus Muldoon,
an' I have no wish t' speak disrespect of thim as is educated, but th' conversation of a gang
of Frinch educated fleas is annoyin' t' a man that wants t' sleep."

"I will speak t' th' professor, gintlemin," said Mrs. Muldoon, "an' remonstrate with him. Mary,
me girrl," she added, to the maid, who was passing her chair, "would ye mind givin' me th'
least bit of a rub between me shoulders like? I will speak t' th' professor, for I have no
doubt he has but t' say th' worrd t' his scholards, an' they will all run back where they belong."

But the professor did not come back that day. He must have had urgent business in New York,
for he remained there all night, and all the next day, too, and if he had not paid his bill
in advance, Mrs. Muldoon would have suspected that he had run away. But his bill was paid,
and his luggage was still in the room, and the educated fleas, or their numerous offspring,
explored the boarding-house at will, and romped through all the rooms as if they owned them.
If Professor Jocolino had been there he would have had to listen to some forcible remonstrances.
It was Flannery who at length took the law into his own hands.

It was late Sunday evening. The upper hall was dark, and Flannery stole softly down the hall
in his socks and pushed open the professor's door. The room was quite dark, and Flannery stole
into it and closed the door behind himself. He drew from his pocket an insect-powder gun, and
fired it. It was an instrument something like a bellows, and it fired by a simple squeeze,
sending a shower of powder that fell in all directions. It was a light, yellow powder, and
Flannery deluged the room with it. He stole stealthily about, shooting the curtains, shooting
the bed, shooting the picture of the late Mr. Timothy Muldoon, shooting the floor. He bent
down and shot under the bed, and under the washstand, until a film of yellow dust lay over
the whole room, and then he turned to the closet and opened that. There hung Professor Jocolino's
other clothes, and Flannery jerked them from the hooks and carried them at arm's length to
the bed, and shot them.

As he was shooting into the pocket of a pair of striped trousers the door opened and Professor
Jocolino stood on the threshold. There was no doubt in the professor's mind. He was being robbed!
He drew a pistol from his pocket and fired. The bullet whizzed over the bending Flannery's
head, and before the professor could fire a second time Flannery rose and turned and, with
a true aim, shot the professor!

Shot him full in the face with the insect powder, and before the blinded man could recover
his breath or spit out the bitter dose, or wipe his eyes, Flannery had him by the collar and
had jerked him to the head of the stairs. It is true; he kicked him downstairs. Not insultingly,
or with bad feeling, but in a moment of emotional insanity, as the defense would say. This
was an extenuating circumstance, and excuses Flannery, but the professor, being a foreigner,
could not see the fine point of the distinction, and was angry.

That night the professor did not sleep in Westcote, but the next afternoon he appeared at Mrs.
Muldoon's, supported by Monsieur Jules, the well-known Seventh Avenue restaurateur, and Monsieur
Renaud, who occupies an important post as garcon in Monsieur Jules' establishment.

"For the keek," said the professor, "I care not. I have been keek before. The keek by one gentleman,
him I resent, him I revenge; the keek by the base, him I scorn! I let the keek go, Madame Muldoon.
Of the keek I say not at all, but the flea! Ah, the poor flea! Excuse the weep, Madame Muldoon!"

The professor wept into his handkerchief, and the two men looked seriously solemn, and patted
the professor on the back.

"Ah, my Alphonse, the flea! The poor leetle flea!" they cried.

"For the flea I have the revenge!" cried the professor, fiercely. "How you say it? I will be
to have the revenge. I would to be the revenge having. 

"It will become subject of wonder, says Spencer, who has been admirable people who find enjoy without
working, at the expense of working without enjoying, and Sir Oliver Lodge is and strange that an individual
may sell a piece of England for their benefit.

"Humanity is growing in intelligence, patience, kindness - in love," says Hubbard. Good men
are beginning to find in the affections of home and friendship joy and satisfaction enough to feel
amply compensated for all its virtues on earth. With the advancement of intelligence, kindness and
human wisdom, with the increasing abundance of production into perspective by the development
of arts and sciences, that will eventually remove the ignorance, vice, crime, pain and misery, with
attenuation inequalities progressive present, which are the result of the inequities of the past,
by the constant improvement of the moral capacity of the individual, is profiled in the distance
a superior type of man who, knowing extract noble side of human nature all welfare to aspire,
not feel the need for their good deeds are rewarded with disproportionate rewards, or punished
with eternal punishment which will cause evils passengers.

The matter of religion, which is the need to punish in an imaginary world ills away with the
real world, and reward in another life the benefits do not indulge in it, is less constantly
coming to the moral progress of mankind, and can provide from now, when all the bad actions are
punished or forgiven, and all good are rewarded here, God will not have anything to do there,
and unless strive to be more evil than men, punishing what they forget, and giving them, quand
même, rewards do not suck, will be forced to close permanently purgatory hell and heaven,
leaving all his ministers job on earth.

And only then will men live unexploited and peace, and be happy in this world and others.

Capital ideas of civilization at the time that passes

THE LIFE AND WELFARE

In the fourteenth century, which 25:000.000 people - almost half the population of Europe - succumbed
Black Death, the dangers that beset permanently resident, came from
supernatural powers to whom they were attributed to drought, floods,
epidemics, earthquakes, plagues, crop and triumphs of the war. For fully five minutes Mrs. Muldoon sat in
a sort of stupor, and then she arose and went about her work. After all it was Flannery's business,
and none of hers, but she wished the men had gone to Flannery, instead of delegating her to
tell him.

"Thief of th' worrld!" exclaimed Flannery, when she told him the demand the professor had made.
"Sure, I have put me foot in it this time, Missus Muldoon, for kill thim I did, and pay for
thim I must, I dare say, but 't will be no fun t' do it! One hunderd dollars for fleas, mam!
Did ever an Irishman pay the like before? One week ago Mike Flannery would not have give one
dollar for all the fleas in th' worrld. But 'Have to' is a horse a man must ride, whether he
wants to or no."

But the more Flannery thought about having to pay out one hundred dollars for one hundred dead
insects the less he liked it and the more angry be became. It could not be denied that one
dollar was a reasonable price for a flea that had had a good education. A man could hardly
be expected to take a raw country flea, as you might say, and educate it, and give it graces
and teach it dancing and all the accomplishments for less than a dollar. But one hundred dollars
was a lot of money, too. If it had been a matter of one flea Flannery would not have worried,
but to pay out one hundred dollars in a lump for flea-slaughter, hurt his feelings. He did
not believe the fleas were worth the price, and he inquired diligently, seeking to learn the
market value of educated fleas. There did not seem to be any market value. One thing only he
learned, and that was that the government of the United States, in Congress assembled, had
recognized that insects have a value, for he found in the list of customs duties this:--"Insects,
not crude, 1/4 cent per pound and 10 per cent. ad valorem."

As Flannery leaned over his counter at the office of the Interurban Express Company and spelled
this out in the book of customs duties he frowned, but as he looked at it his frown changed
to a smile, and from a smile to a grin, and he shut the book, and put it in his pocket. He
was ready to meet the professor.

"Good day to yez," he said, cheerfully, when he went into the little parlor on Sunday afternoon,
and found the professor sitting there, flanked by his two fellow countrymen. "I have come t'
pay ye th' hunderd dollars Missus Muldoon was tellin' me about."

The professor bowed and said nothing. The two gentlemen from Seventh Avenue also bowed, and
they, too, said nothing.

"I'm glad ye spoke about it," said Flannery, good-naturedly, "for 'tis always a pleasure to
Mike Flannery to pay his honest debts, and I might not have thought of it if ye had not mentioned
it. I was thinkin' them was nawthin' but common, ignorant fleas, professor."

"Ah, no!" cried the professor. "The very educate flea! The flea of wisdom! The very teached flea!"

"Hear that, now!" said Flannery, "and did they really come all th' way from France, professor?
Or is this a joke ye are playin' on me?"

"The truly French flea!" explained the professor. "From Paris herselfs. The genuine. The import
flea."

"And to think ye brought thim all th' way yerself, professor! 

He looked anxiously upward, was quick to fix it and became very red.

- Are you hurt? - Cecilia asked with interest.

- Ca! No, ma'am ... On the contrary ... Wow, for a little break!

And he withdrew more and more confused.

Hallab our youth at that point and that time when men fall in love with a broom. The age of love
for him had been delayed a bit. This usually happens in all in those who tyrannize muscle nerves.
So Miss Belinchón, although nothing linda, suddenly awakened in him a certain sympathy that
is easy to transmute into a passion. And result of that brief interview, Gonzalo happened since
then occasionally ahead without the house of lords Belinchón looking from the corner of eye
the balconies, cared more for the dressing of the suit and the person, went to Mass on Sundays
ten San Andres, where Dona Paula and her children heard.

In the theater used to guide the sly Live looks and occasionally ventured to drop a sombrerazo.
But as did he blushed and looked scared everywhere, shaking that this nascent sense of his soul
was discovered.

Gonzalo Innocent! Long before he would give a full
account of this inclination, the village whole knew. Nothing can be
hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in the eyes
of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood. 'Insects, not crude, one quarter cent per
pound and tin per cint. ad valorum.' What is ad valorum, I dunno, but 't is a wonderful thing
th' tariff is. Who would be thinkin' tin years ago that Professor Jocolino would be comin'
t' Ameriky with one hundred fleas, not crude, in his dress-suit portmanteau? But th' Congress
was th' boy t' think of everything. 'No free fleas!' says they. 'Look at th' poor American
flea, crude an' uneducated, an' see th' struggle it has, competin' with th' flea of Europe,
Asia, an' Africa. Down with th' furrin flea,' says Congress, 'protect th' poor American insect.
One quarter cent per pound an' tin per cint. ad valorum for th' flea of Europe!"

Mike Flannery brought his hand down on the book he held, and the three men, who had been watching
him with a fascinated stare, jumped nervously.

"That's what Congress says," said Flannery, glaring at the professor, "but up jumps th' Sinator
from Californy. 'Stop!' he says, 'wait! 'T is all right enough for th' East t' rule out th'
flea, but th' Californian loves th' flea like a brother. We want free fleas.' Then up jumps
th' Sinator from New York. 'I don't object t' th' plain or crude flea comin' in free,' says
he, 'for there be need of thim, as me frind from th' West says. What amusement would th' dogs
of th' nation have but for th' flea?' says he. 'But I am thinkin' of th' sivinty-three theayters
on an' off Broadway,' says he. 'Shall th' amusemint industry of th' metropolis suffer from
th' incoming of th' millions of educated an' trained fleas of Europe? Shall Shakespere an'
Belasco an' Shaw be put out of business by th' pauper flea theayters of Europe? No!' says he.
'I move t' amend th' tariff of th' United States t' read that th' duty on insects, not crude,
be one fourth of a cent per pound an' tin per cint. ad valorum,' he says, 'which will give
th' dog all th' crude fleas he wants, an' yit shut out th' educated flea from compytition with
grand opera an' Barnum's circus.' An' so 'twas voted," concluded Mike Flannery.

Monsieur Jules fidgeted and looked at his watch.

"Be easy," said Flannery. "There's no hurry. I'm waitin' for a frind of mine, an' 't is fine
t' talk over th' tariff with educated min once in a while. Th' frind I'm lookin' for anny minute
now is a fine expert on th' subject of th' tariff himself. O'Halloran is th' name of him. Him
as is th' second deputy assistant collector of evidence of fraud an' smugglin' in th' revenue
service of th' United States. 'T was a mere matter of doubt in me mind," said Flannery, easily,
"regardin' th' proper valuation of th' professor's fleas. I was thinkin' mebby one dollar was
not enough t' pay for a flea, not crude, so I asks O'Halloran. ''T will be easy t' settle that,'
says O'Halloran, 'for th' value of thim will be set down in th' books of th' United States,
at th' time whin th' professor paid th' duty on thim. I'll just look an' see how much th' duty
was paid on,' says he. 'But mebby th' professor paid no duty on thim,' I says. 'Make no doubt
of that,' says O'Halloran, 'for unless th' professor was a fool he would pay th' duty like
a man, for th' penalty is fine an' imprisonmint,' says O'Halloran, 'an' I make no doubt he
paid it. I will be out Sunday at four,' says O'Halloran, 'an' give ye th' facts, an' I hope
th' duty is paid as it should be, for if 't is not paid 't will be me duty t' arrest th' professor
an'--'"

Flannery stopped and listened.

"Is that th' train from th' city I hear?" he said. And peers with a sharp eye for the right moment
to regain the lost position.

Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been
resolved in our country in the world is no longer questioned.

"Mon Dieu!" he exclaimed, and in an instant he and his friends were in an excited conversation
that went at the rate of three hundred words a minute. Then the professor turned to Flannery.

"I return," he said. "I have lost the most valued thing, the picture of the dear mamma. It
is lost! It is picked of the pocket! Villains! I go to the police. I return."

He did not wait for permission, but went, and that was the last Mike Flannery or Mrs. Muldoon
ever saw of him.

"An' t' think of me a free trader every day of me born life," said Mike Flannery that evening
to Mrs. Muldoon, "but I be so no more. I see th' protection there is in th' protective tariff,
Missus Muldoon, mam."

