Aeneas--for a father's affection denied his spirit rest--sends Achates speeding to his ships,
to carry this news to Ascanius, and lead him to the town: in Ascanius is fixed all the parent's
loving care. Presents likewise he bids him bring saved from the wreck of Ilium, a mantle stiff
with gold embroidery, and a veil with woven border of yellow acanthus-flower, that once decked
Helen of Argos, the marvel of her mother Leda's giving; Helen had borne them from Mycenae,
when she sought Troy towers and a lawless bridal; the sceptre too that Ilione, Priam's eldest
daughter, once had worn, a beaded necklace, and a double circlet of jewelled gold. Achates,
hasting on his message, bent his way towards the ships.

But in the Cytherean's breast new arts, new schemes revolve; if Cupid, changed in form and
feature, may come in sweet Ascanius' room, and his gifts kindle the queen to madness and set
her inmost sense aflame. Verily she fears the uncertain house, the double-tongued race of Tyre;
[662-698]cruel Juno frets her, and at nightfall her care floods back. Therefore to winged Love
she speaks these words:

'Son, who art alone my strength and sovereignty, son, who scornest the mighty father's Typhoïan
shafts, to thee I fly for succour, and sue humbly to thy deity. How Aeneas thy brother is driven
about all the sea-coasts by bitter Juno's malignity, this thou knowest, and hast often grieved
in our grief. Now Dido the Phoenician holds him stayed with soft words, and I tremble to think
how the welcome of Juno's house may issue; she will not be idle in this supreme turn of fortune.
Wherefore I counsel to prevent her wiles and circle the queen with flame, that, unalterable
by any deity, she may be held fast to me by passionate love for Aeneas. Take now my thought
how to do this. The boy prince, my chiefest care, makes ready at his dear father's summons
to go to the Sidonian city, carrying gifts that survive the sea and the flames of Troy. Him
will I hide deep asleep in my holy habitation, high on Cythera's hills or in Idalium, that
he may not know nor cross our wiles. Do thou but for one night feign his form, and, boy as
thou art, put on the familiar face of a boy; so when in festal cheer, amid royal dainties and
Bacchic juice, Dido shall take thee to her lap, shall fold thee in her clasp and kiss thee
close and sweet, thou mayest imbreathe a hidden fire and unsuspected poison.'

Love obeys his dear mother's words, lays by his wings, and walks rejoicingly with Iülus' tread.
But Venus pours gentle dew of slumber on Ascanius' limbs, and lifts him lulled in her lap to
the tall Idalian groves of her deity, where soft amaracus folds him round with the shadowed
sweetness of its odorous blossoms. And now, obedient to her words, Cupid went merrily in Achates'
guiding, with the royal gifts for the Tyrians. Already at his coming the queen hath sate her
down in the midmost on her golden [699-733]throne under the splendid tapestries; now lord Aeneas,
now too the men of Troy gather, and all recline on the strewn purple. Servants pour water on
their hands, serve corn from baskets, and bring napkins with close-cut pile. Fifty handmaids
are within, whose task is in their course to keep unfailing store and kindle the household
fire. An hundred others, and as many pages all of like age, load the board with food and array
the wine cups. Therewithal the Tyrians are gathered full in the wide feasting chamber, and
take their appointed places on the broidered cushions. They marvel at Aeneas' gifts, marvel
at Iülus, at the god's face aflame and forged speech, at the mantle and veil wrought with yellow
acanthus-flower. Above all the hapless Phoenician, victim to coming doom, cannot satiate her
soul, but, stirred alike by the boy and the gifts, she gazes and takes fire. He, when hanging
clasped on Aeneas' neck he had satisfied all the deluded parent's love, makes his way to the
queen; the queen clings to him with her eyes and all her soul, and ever and anon fondles him
in her lap, ah, poor Dido! witless how mighty a deity sinks into her breast; but he, mindful
of his mother the Acidalian, begins touch by touch to efface Sychaeus, and sows the surprise
of a living love in the long-since-unstirred spirit and disaccustomed heart. Soon as the noise
of banquet ceased and the board was cleared, they set down great bowls and enwreathe the wine.
The house is filled with hum of voices eddying through the spacious chambers; lit lamps hang
down by golden chainwork, and flaming tapers expel the night. Now the queen called for a heavy
cup of jewelled gold, and filled it with pure wine; therewith was the use of Belus and all
of Belus' race: then the hall was silenced. 'Jupiter,' she cries, 'for thou art reputed lawgiver
of hospitality, grant that this be a joyful day to the Tyrians and the voyagers from Troy,
a day to live in our children's memory. [734-756]Bacchus, the giver of gladness, be with us,
and Juno the bountiful; and you, O Tyrians, be favourable to our assembly.' She spoke, and
poured liquid libation on the board, which done, she first herself touched it lightly with
her lips, then handed it to Bitias and bade him speed; he valiantly drained the foaming cup,
and flooded him with the brimming gold. The other princes followed. Long-haired Iopas on his
gilded lyre fills the chamber with songs ancient Atlas taught; he sings of the wandering moon
and the sun's travails; whence is the human race and the brute, whence water and fire; of Arcturus,
the rainy Hyades, and the twin Oxen; why wintry suns make such haste to dip in ocean, or what
delay makes the nights drag lingeringly. Tyrians and Trojans after them redouble applause.
Therewithal Dido wore the night in changing talk, alas! and drank long draughts of love, asking
many a thing of Priam, many a thing of Hector; now in what armour the son of the Morning came;
now of what fashion were Diomede's horses; now of mighty Achilles. 'Nay, come,' she cries,
'tell to us, O guest, from their first beginning the treachery of the Grecians, thy people's
woes, and thine own wanderings; for this is now the seventh summer that bears thee a wanderer
over all the earth and sea.'

BOOK SECOND

THE STORY OF THE SACK OF TROY

All were hushed, and sate with steadfast countenance; thereon, high from his cushioned seat,
lord Aeneas thus began:

'Dreadful, O Queen, is the woe thou bidst me recall, how the Grecians pitiably overthrew the
wealth and lordship of Troy; and I myself saw these things in all their horror, and I bore
great part in them. What Myrmidon or Dolopian, or soldier of stern Ulysses, could in such a
tale restrain his tears! and now night falls dewy from the steep of heaven, and the setting
stars counsel to slumber. Yet if thy desire be such to know our calamities, and briefly to
hear Troy's last agony, though my spirit shudders at the remembrance and recoils in pain, I
will essay.

'Broken in war and beaten back by fate, and so many years now slid away, the Grecian captains
build by Pallas' divine craft a horse of mountainous build, ribbed with sawn fir; they feign
it vowed for their return, and this rumour goes about. Within the blind sides they stealthily
imprison chosen men picked out one by one, and fill the vast cavern of its womb full with armed
soldiery.

'There lies in sight an island well known in fame, Tenedos, rich of store while the realm of
Priam endured, [23-55]now but a bay and roadstead treacherous to ships. Hither they launch
forth, and hide on the solitary shore: we fancied they were gone, and had run down the wind
for Mycenae. So all the Teucrian land put her long grief away. The gates are flung open; men
go rejoicingly to see the Doric camp, the deserted stations and abandoned shore. Here the Dolopian
troops were tented, here cruel Achilles; here their squadrons lay; here the lines were wont
to meet in battle. Some gaze astonished at the deadly gift of Minerva the Virgin, and wonder
at the horse's bulk; and Thymoetes begins to advise that it be drawn within our walls and set
in the citadel, whether in guile, or that the doom of Troy was even now setting thus. But Capys
and they whose mind was of better counsel, bid us either hurl sheer into the sea the guileful
and sinister gift of Greece, or heap flames beneath to consume it, or pierce and explore the
hollow hiding-place of its womb. The wavering crowd is torn apart in high dispute.

'At that, foremost of all and with a great throng about him, Laocoön runs hotly down from the
high citadel, and cries from far: "Ah, wretched citizens, what height of madness is this? Believe
you the foe is gone? or think you any Grecian gift is free of treachery? is it thus we know
Ulysses? Either Achaeans are hid in this cage of wood, or the engine is fashioned against our
walls to overlook the houses and descend upon the city; some delusion lurks there: trust not
the horse, O Trojans. Be it what it may, I fear the Grecians even when they offer gifts." Thus
speaking, he hurled his mighty spear with great strength at the creature's side and the curved
framework of the belly: the spear stood quivering, and the jarred cavern of the womb sounded
hollow and uttered a groan. And had divine ordinance, had a soul not infatuate been with us,
he had moved us to lay violent steel on the Argolic hiding place; [56-90]and Troy would now
stand, and you, tall towers of Priam, yet abide.

'Lo, Dardanian shepherds meanwhile dragged clamorously before the King a man with hands tied
behind his back, who to compass this very thing, to lay Troy open to the Achaeans, had gone
to meet their ignorant approach, confident in spirit and doubly prepared to spin his snares
or to meet assured death. From all sides, in eagerness to see, the people of Troy run streaming
in, and vie in jeers at their prisoner. Know now the treachery of the Grecians, and from a
single crime learn all. . . . For as he stood amid our gaze confounded, disarmed, and cast
his eyes around the Phrygian columns, "Alas!" he cried, "what land now, what seas may receive
me? or what is the last doom that yet awaits my misery? who have neither any place among the
Grecians, and likewise the Dardanians clamour in wrath for the forfeit of my blood." At that
lament our spirit was changed, and all assault stayed: we encourage him to speak, and tell
of what blood he is sprung, or what assurance he brings his captors.

'"In all things assuredly," says he, "O King, befall what may, I will confess to thee the truth;
nor will I deny myself of Argolic birth--this first--nor, if Fortune hath made Sinon unhappy,
shall her malice mould him to a cheat and a liar. Hath a tale of the name of Palamedes, son
of Belus, haply reached thine ears, and of his glorious rumour and renown; whom under false
evidence the Pelasgians, because he forbade the war, sent innocent to death by wicked witness;
now they bewail him when he hath left the light;--in his company, being near of blood, my father,
poor as he was, sent me hither to arms from mine earliest years. While he stood unshaken in
royalty and potent in the councils of the kings, we too wore a name and honour. When by subtle
Ulysses' malice (no unknown tale do I tell) [91-124]he left the upper regions, my shattered
life crept on in darkness and grief, inly indignant at the fate of my innocent friend. Nor
in my madness was I silent: and, should any chance offer, did I ever return a conqueror to
my native Argos, I vowed myself his avenger, and with my words I stirred his bitter hatred.
From this came the first taint of ill; from this did Ulysses ever threaten me with fresh charges,
from this flung dark sayings among the crowd and sought confederate arms. Nay, nor did he rest,
till by Calchas' service--but yet why do I vainly unroll the unavailing tale, or why hold you
in delay, if all Achaeans are ranked together in your mind, and it is enough that I bear the
name? Take the vengeance deferred; this the Ithacan would desire, and the sons of Atreus buy
at a great ransom."

'Then indeed we press on to ask and inquire the cause, witless of wickedness so great and Pelasgian
craft. Tremblingly the false-hearted one pursues his speech:

'"Often would the Grecians have taken to flight, leaving Troy behind, and disbanded in weariness
of the long war: and would God they had! as often the fierce sea-tempest barred their way,
and the gale frightened them from going. Most of all when this horse already stood framed with
beams of maple, storm clouds roared over all the sky. In perplexity we send Eurypylus to inquire
of Phoebus' oracle; and he brings back from the sanctuary these words of terror: With blood
of a slain maiden, O Grecians, you appeased the winds when first you came to the Ilian coasts;
with blood must you seek your return, and an Argive life be the accepted sacrifice. When that
utterance reached the ears of the crowd, their hearts stood still, and a cold shudder ran through
their inmost sense: for whom is doom purposed? who is claimed of Apollo? At this the Ithacan
with loud clamour drags Calchas the soothsayer forth amidst them, and demands of him what is
this the gods signify. And now many an one [125-158]foretold me the villain's craft and cruelty,
and silently saw what was to come. Twice five days he is speechless in his tent, and will not
have any one denounced by his lips, or given up to death. Scarcely at last, at the loud urgence
of the Ithacan, he breaks into speech as was planned, and appoints me for the altar. All consented;
and each one's particular fear was turned, ah me! to my single destruction. And now the dreadful
day was at hand; the rites were being ordered for me, the salted corn, and the chaplets to
wreathe my temples. I broke away, I confess it, from death; I burst my bonds, and lurked all
night darkling in the sedge of the marshy pool, till they might set their sails, if haply they
should set them. Nor have I any hope more of seeing my old home nor my sweet children and the
father whom I desire. Of them will they even haply claim vengeance for my flight, and wash
away this crime in their wretched death. By the heavenly powers I beseech thee, the deities
to whom truth is known, by all the faith yet unsullied that is anywhere left among mortals;
pity woes so great; pity an undeserving sufferer."

'At these his tears we grant him life, and accord our pity. Priam himself at once commands
his shackles and strait bonds to be undone, and thus speaks with kindly words: "Whoso thou
art, now and henceforth dismiss and forget the Greeks: thou shalt be ours. And unfold the truth
to this my question: wherefore have they reared this vast size of horse? who is their counsellor?
or what their aim? what propitiation, or what engine of war is this?" He ended; the other,
stored with the treacherous craft of Pelasgia, lifts to heaven his freed hands. "You, everlasting
fires," he cries, "and your inviolable sanctity be my witness; you, O altars and accursed swords
I fled, and chaplets of the gods I wore as victim! unblamed may I break the oath of Greek allegiance,
unblamed hate them and bring all to light that they [159-191]conceal; nor am I bound by any
laws of country. Do thou only keep by thy promise, O Troy, and preserve faith with thy preserver,
as my news shall be true, as my recompense great.

'"All the hope of Greece, and the confidence in which the war began, ever centred in Pallas'
aid. But since the wicked son of Tydeus, and Ulysses, forger of crime, made bold to tear the
fated Palladium from her sanctuary, and cut down the sentries on the towered height; since
they grasped the holy image, and dared with bloody hands to touch the maiden chaplets of the
goddess; since then the hope of Greece ebbed and slid away backwards, their strength was broken,
and the mind of the goddess estranged. Whereof the Tritonian gave token by no uncertain signs.
Scarcely was the image set in the camp; flame shot sparkling from its lifted eyes, and salt
sweat started over its body; thrice, wonderful to tell, it leapt from the ground with shield
and spear quivering. Immediately Calchas prophesies that the seas must be explored in flight,
nor may Troy towers be overthrown by Argive weapons, except they repeat their auspices at Argos,
and bring back that divine presence they have borne away with them in the curved ships overseas.
And now they have run down the wind for their native Mycenae, to gather arms and gods to attend
them; they will remeasure ocean and be on you unawares. So Calchas expounds the omens. This
image at his warning they reared in recompense for the Palladium and the injured deity, to
expiate the horror of sacrilege. Yet Calchas bade them raise it to this vast size with oaken
crossbeams, and build it up to heaven, that it may not find entry at the gates nor be drawn
within the city, nor protect your people beneath the consecration of old. For if hand of yours
should violate Minerva's offering, then utter destruction (the gods turn rather on himself
his augury!) should be upon Priam's empire and [192-226]the Phrygian people. But if under your
hands it climbed into your city, Asia should advance in mighty war to the walls of Pelops,
and a like fate awaited our children's children."

'So by Sinon's wiles and craft and perjury the thing gained belief; and we were ensnared by
treachery and forced tears, we whom neither the son of Tydeus nor Achilles of Larissa, whom
not ten years nor a thousand ships brought down.

'Here another sight, greater, alas! and far more terrible meets us, and alarms our thoughtless
senses. Laocoön, allotted priest of Neptune, was slaying a great bull at the accustomed altars.
And lo! from Tenedos, over the placid depths (I shudder as I recall) two snakes in enormous
coils press down the sea and advance together to the shore; their breasts rise through the
surge, and their blood-red crests overtop the waves; the rest trails through the main behind
and wreathes back in voluminous curves; the brine gurgles and foams. And now they gained the
fields, while their bloodshot eyes blazed with fire, and their tongues lapped and flickered
in their hissing mouths. We scatter, pallid at the sight. They in unfaltering train make towards
Laocoön. And first the serpents twine in their double embrace his two little children, and
bite deep in their wretched limbs; then him likewise, as he comes up to help with arms in his
hand, they seize and fasten in their enormous coils; and now twice clasping his waist, twice
encircling his neck with their scaly bodies, they tower head and neck above him. He at once
strains his hands to tear their knots apart, his fillets spattered with foul black venom; at
once raises to heaven awful cries; as when, bellowing, a bull shakes the wavering axe from
his neck and runs wounded from the altar. But the two snakes glide away to the high sanctuary
and seek the fierce Tritonian's citadel, [227-261]and take shelter under the goddess' feet
beneath the circle of her shield. Then indeed a strange terror thrills in all our amazed breasts;
and Laocoön, men say, hath fulfilled his crime's desert, in piercing the consecrated wood and
hurling his guilty spear into its body. All cry out that the image must be drawn to its home
and supplication made to her deity. . . . We sunder the walls, and lay open the inner city.
All set to the work; they fix rolling wheels under its feet, and tie hempen bands on its neck.
The fated engine climbs our walls, big with arms. Around it boys and unwedded girls chant hymns
and joyfully lay their hand on the rope. It moves up, and glides menacing into the middle of
the town. O native land! O Ilium, house of gods, and Dardanian city renowned in war! four times
in the very gateway did it come to a stand, and four times armour rang in its womb. Yet we
urge it on, mindless and infatuate, and plant the ill-ominous thing in our hallowed citadel.
Even then Cassandra opens her lips to the coming doom, lips at a god's bidding never believed
by the Trojans. We, the wretched people, to whom that day was our last, hang the shrines of
the gods with festal boughs throughout the city. Meanwhile the heavens wheel on, and night
rises from the sea, wrapping in her vast shadow earth and sky and the wiles of the Myrmidons;
about the town the Teucrians are stretched in silence; slumber laps their tired limbs.

'And now the Argive squadron was sailing in order from Tenedos, and in the favouring stillness
of the quiet moon sought the shores it knew; when the royal galley ran out a flame, and, protected
by the gods' malign decrees, Sinon stealthily lets loose the imprisoned Grecians from their
barriers of pine; the horse opens and restores them to the air; and joyfully issuing from the
hollow wood, Thessander and Sthenelus the captains, and terrible Ulysses, [262-295]slide down
the dangling rope, with Acamas and Thoas and Neoptolemus son of Peleus, and Machaon first of
all, and Menelaus, and Epeüs himself the artificer of the treachery. They sweep down the city
buried in drunken sleep; the watchmen are cut down, and at the open gates they welcome all
their comrades, and unite their confederate bands.

'It was the time when by the gift of God rest comes stealing first and sweetest on unhappy
men. In slumber, lo! before mine eyes Hector seemed to stand by, deep in grief and shedding
abundant tears; torn by the chariot, as once of old, and black with gory dust, his swoln feet
pierced with the thongs. Ah me! in what guise was he! how changed from the Hector who returns
from putting on Achilles' spoils, or launching the fires of Phrygia on the Grecian ships! with
ragged beard and tresses clotted with blood, and all the many wounds upon him that he received
around his ancestral walls. Myself too weeping I seemed to accost him ere he spoke, and utter
forth mournful accents: "O light of Dardania, O surest hope of the Trojans, what long delay
is this hath held thee? from what borders comest thou, Hector our desire? with what weary eyes
we see thee, after many deaths of thy kin, after divers woes of people and city! What indignity
hath marred thy serene visage? or why discern I these wounds?" He replies naught, nor regards
my idle questioning; but heavily drawing a heart-deep groan, "Ah, fly, goddess-born," he says,
"and rescue thyself from these flames. The foe holds our walls; from her high ridges Troy is
toppling down. Thy country and Priam ask no more. If Troy towers might be defended by strength
of hand, this hand too had been their defence. Troy commends to thee her holy things and household
gods; take them to accompany thy fate; seek for them a city, which, after all the seas have
known thy wanderings, thou shalt at last establish in [296-327]might." So speaks he, and carries
forth in his hands from their inner shrine the chaplets and strength of Vesta, and the everlasting
fire.

'Meanwhile the city is stirred with mingled agony; and more and more, though my father Anchises'
house lay deep withdrawn and screened by trees, the noises grow clearer and the clash of armour
swells. I shake myself from sleep and mount over the sloping roof, and stand there with ears
attent: even as when flame catches a corn-field while south winds are furious, or the racing
torrent of a mountain stream sweeps the fields, sweeps the smiling crops and labours of the
oxen, and hurls the forest with it headlong; the shepherd in witless amaze hears the roar from
the cliff-top. Then indeed proof is clear, and the treachery of the Grecians opens out. Already
the house of Deïphobus hath crashed down in wide ruin amid the overpowering flames; already
our neighbour Ucalegon is ablaze: the broad Sigean bay is lit with the fire. Cries of men and
blare of trumpets rise up. Madly I seize my arms, nor is there so much purpose in arms; but
my spirit is on fire to gather a band for fighting and charge for the citadel with my comrades.
Fury and wrath drive me headlong, and I think how noble is death in arms.

'And lo! Panthus, eluding the Achaean weapons, Panthus son of Othrys, priest of Phoebus in
the citadel, comes hurrying with the sacred vessels and conquered gods and his little grandchild
in his hand, and runs distractedly towards my gates. "How stands the state, O Panthus? what
stronghold are we to occupy?" Scarcely had I said so, when groaning he thus returns: "The crowning
day is come, the irreversible time of the Dardanian land. No more are we a Trojan people; Ilium
and the great glory of the Teucrians is no more. Angry Jupiter hath cast all into the scale
of Argos. The Grecians are lords of the burning [328-362]town. The horse, standing high amid
the city, pours forth armed men, and Sinon scatters fire, insolent in victory. Some are at
the wide-flung gates, all the thousands that ever came from populous Mycenae. Others have beset
the narrow streets with lowered weapons; edge and glittering point of steel stand drawn, ready
for the slaughter; scarcely at the entry do the guards of the gates essay battle, and hold
out in the blind fight."

'Heaven's will thus declared by the son of Othrys drives me amid flames and arms, where the
baleful Fury calls, and tumult of shouting rises up. Rhipeus and Epytus, most mighty in arms,
join company with me; Hypanis and Dymas meet us in the moonlight and attach themselves to our
side, and young Coroebus son of Mygdon. In those days it was he had come to Troy, fired with
mad passion for Cassandra, and bore a son's aid to Priam and the Phrygians: hapless, that he
listened not to his raving bride's counsels. . . . Seeing them close-ranked and daring for
battle, I therewith began thus: "Men, hearts of supreme and useless bravery, if your desire
be fixed to follow one who dares the utmost; you see what is the fortune of our state: all
the gods by whom this empire was upheld have gone forth, abandoning shrine and altar; your
aid comes to a burning city. Let us die, and rush on their encircling weapons. The conquered
have one safety, to hope for none."

'So their spirit is heightened to fury. Then, like wolves ravening in a black fog, whom mad
malice of hunger hath driven blindly forth, and their cubs left behind await with throats unslaked;
through the weapons of the enemy we march to certain death, and hold our way straight into
the town. Night's sheltering shadow flutters dark around us. Who may unfold in speech that
night's horror and death-agony, or measure its woes in weeping? The [363-397]ancient city falls
with her long years of sovereignty; corpses lie stretched stiff all about the streets and houses
and awful courts of the gods. Nor do Teucrians alone pay forfeit of their blood; once and again
valour returns even in conquered hearts, and the victorious Grecians fall. Everywhere is cruel
agony, everywhere terror, and the sight of death at every turn.

'First, with a great troop of Grecians attending him, Androgeus meets us, taking us in ignorance
for an allied band, and opens on us with friendly words: "Hasten, my men; why idly linger so
late? others plunder and harry the burning citadel; are you but now on your march from the
tall ships?" He spoke, and immediately (for no answer of any assurance was offered) knew he
was fallen among the foe. In amazement, he checked foot and voice; even as one who struggling
through rough briers hath trodden a snake on the ground unwarned, and suddenly shrinks fluttering
back as it rises in anger and puffs its green throat out; even thus Androgeus drew away, startled
at the sight. We rush in and encircle them with serried arms, and cut them down dispersedly
in their ignorance of the ground and seizure of panic. Fortune speeds our first labour. And
here Coroebus, flushed with success and spirit, cries: "O comrades, follow me where fortune
points before us the path of safety, and shews her favour. Let us exchange shields, and accoutre
ourselves in Grecian suits; whether craft or courage, who will ask of an enemy? the foe shall
arm our hands." Thus speaking, he next dons the plumed helmet and beautifully blazoned shield
of Androgeus, and fits the Argive sword to his side. So does Rhipeus, so Dymas in like wise,
and all our men in delight arm themselves one by one in the fresh spoils. We advance, mingling
with the Grecians, under a protection not our own, and join many a battle [398-432]with those
we meet amid the blind night; many a Greek we send down to hell. Some scatter to the ships
and run for the safety of the shore; some in craven fear again climb the huge horse, and hide
in the belly they knew. Alas that none may trust at all to estranged gods!

'Lo! Cassandra, maiden daughter of Priam, was being dragged with disordered tresses from the
temple and sanctuary of Minerva, straining to heaven her blazing eyes in vain; her eyes, for
fetters locked her delicate hands. At this sight Coroebus burst forth infuriate, and flung
himself on death amid their columns. We all follow him up, and charge with massed arms. Here
first from the high temple roof we are overwhelmed with our own people's weapons, and a most
pitiful slaughter begins through the fashion of our armour and the mistaken Greek crests; then
the Grecians, with angry cries at the maiden's rescue, gather from every side and fall on us;
Ajax in all his valour, and the two sons of Atreus, and the whole Dolopian army: as oft when
bursting in whirlwind West and South clash with adverse blasts, and the East wind exultant
on the coursers of the Dawn; the forests cry, and fierce in foam Nereus with his trident stirs
the seas from their lowest depth. Those too appear, whom our stratagem routed through the darkness
of dim night and drove all about the town; at once they know the shields and lying weapons,
and mark the alien tone on our lips. We go down, overwhelmed by numbers. First Coroebus is
stretched by Peneleus' hand at the altar of the goddess armipotent; and Rhipeus falls, the
one man who was most righteous and steadfast in justice among the Teucrians: the gods' ways
are not as ours: Hypanis and Dymas perish, pierced by friendly hands; nor did all thy goodness,
O Panthus, nor Apollo's fillet protect thy fall. O ashes of Ilium and death flames of my people!
you I call to witness that in your ruin I [433-465]shunned no Grecian weapon or encounter,
and my hand earned my fall, had destiny been thus. We tear ourselves away, I and Iphitus and
Pelias, Iphitus now stricken in age, Pelias halting too under the wound of Ulysses, called
forward by the clamour to Priam's house.

