In a cheap restaurant off Union Square he ate a spare and inexpensive meal, whiled away an
hour over the free afternoon papers, went out to watch an audience thronging into one of the
smaller theatres, and then boarded a down-town car. When he reached Trinity Church the clock
was striking, and, as he often did when here at this hour, he entered the open gate and, making
his way among the shadows sat down, on a flat tomb. The gradual transition from the glare and
rush of the up-town streets to the sombre stillness of this ancient graveyard always seemed
to him like the shifting of films upon a screen, a replacement of the city of the living by
the city of the dead. High up in the gloom soared the spire of the old church, its cross lost
in shadows. Still higher, their roofs melting into the dusky blue vault, rose the great office-buildings,
crowding close as if ready to pounce upon the small space protected only by the sacred ashes
of the dead.

For some time he sat motionless, listening to the muffled peals of the organ. Then the humiliating
events of the last twenty-four hours began crowding in upon his memory: the insolent demands
of his landlady; the guarded questions of Kling when he inspected the dressing-case; the look
of doubt on both their faces and the changes wrought in their manner and speech when they found
he was able to pay his way. Suddenly something which up to that moment he had held at bay gripped
him.

"It was money, then, which counted," he said to himself, forgetting for the moment Kitty's
refusal to take it. And if money were so necessary, how long could he earn it? Kling would
soon discover how useless he was, and then the tin box, emptied of its contents and the last
keepsake pawned or sold, the end would come.

None of these anxieties had ever assailed him before. He had been like a man walking in a dream,
his gaze fixed on but one exit, regardless of the dangers besetting his steps. Now the truth
confronted him. He had reached the limit of his resources. To hope for much from Kling was
idle. Such a situation could not last, nor could he count for long either on the friendship
or the sympathy of the big-hearted expressman's wife. She had been absolutely sincere, and
so had her husband, but that made it all the more incumbent upon him to preserve his own independence
while still pursuing the one object of his life with undiminished effort.

A flood of light from the suddenly opened church-door, followed by a burst of pent-up melody,
recalled him to himself. He waited until all was dark again, rose to his feet, passed through
the gate and, with a brace of his shoulders and quickened step, walked on into Wall Street.

As he made his way along the deserted thoroughfare, where but a few hours since the very air
had been charged with a nervous energy whose slightest vibration was felt the world over, the
sombre stillness of the ancient graveyard seemed to have followed him. Save for a private watchman
slowly tramping his round and an isolated foot-passenger hurrying to the ferry, no soul but
himself was stirring or awake except, perhaps, behind some electric light in a lofty building
where a janitor was retiring or, lower down, some belated bookkeeper in search of an error.

Leaving the grim row of tall columns guarding the front of the old custom-house, he turned
his steps in the direction of the docks, wheeled sharply to the left, and continued up South
Street until he stopped in front of a ship-chandler's store.

Some one was at work inside, for the rays of a lantern shed their light over piles of old cordage
and heaps of rusty chains flanking the low entrance.

Picking his way around some barrels of oil, he edged along a line of boxes filled with ship's
stuff until he reached an inside office, where, beside a kerosene lamp placed on a small desk
littered with papers, sat a man in shirt-sleeves. At the sound of O'Day's step the occupant
lifted his head and peered out. The visitor passed through the doorway.

"Good evening, Carlin; I hoped you would still be up. I stopped on the way down or I should
have been here earlier."

A man of sixty, with a ruddy, weather-beaten face set in a half-moon of gray whiskers, the
ends tied under his chin, sprang to his feet. "Ah! Is that you, Mr. Felix? I been a-wonderin'
where you been a-keepin' yourself. Take this chair; it's more comfortable. I was thinkin' somehow
you might come in to-night, and so I took a shy at my bills to have somethin' to do. I suppose"--he
stopped, and in a whisper added: "I suppose you haven't heard anything, have you?"

"No; have you?"

"Not a word," answered the ship-chandler gravely.

"I thought perhaps you might have had a letter," urged Felix.

"Not a line of any kind," came the answer, followed by a sidewise movement of the gray head,
as if its owner had long since abandoned hope from that quarter.

"Do you think anything is the matter?"

"Nothin', or I should 'a' 'eard. My notion is that Martha kep' on to Toronto with that sick
man she nursed on the steamer. Maybe she's got work stiddy and isn't a-goin' to come back."

"But she would have let you KNOW?" There was a ring of anxiety now, tinged with a certain impatience.

"Perhaps she would, Mr. Felix, and perhaps she wouldn't. Since our mother died Martha gets
rather cocky sometimes. Likes to be her own boss and earn her own living. I've often 'eard
her say it before I left 'ome, and she HAS earned it, I must say--and she's got to, same as
all of us. I suppose you been keepin' it up same as usual--trampin' and lookin'?"

"Yes." This came as the mere stating of a fact.

"And I suppose there ain't nothin' new--no clew--nothin' you can work on?" The speaker felt
assured there was not, but it might be an encouragement to suggest its possibility.

"No, not the slightest clew."

"Better give it up, Mr. Felix, you're only wastin' your time. Be worse maybe when you do come
up agin it." The ship-chandler was in earnest; every intonation proved it.

O'Day arose from his seat and looked down at his companion. "That is not my way, Carlin, nor
is it yours; and I have known you since I was a boy."

"And you are goin' to keep it up, Mr. Felix?"

"Yes, until I know the end or reach my own."

"Well, then, God's help go with ye!"

Into the shadows again--past long rows of silent warehouses, with here and there a flickering
gas-lamp--until he reached Dover Street. He had still some work to do up-town, and Dover Street
would furnish a short cut along the abutment of the great bridge, and so on to the Elevated
at Franklin Square.

He was evidently familiar with its narrow, uneven sidewalk, for he swung without hesitation
into the gloom and, with hands hooked behind his back, his stick held, as was his custom, close
to his armpit, made his way past its shambling hovels and warehouses. Now and then he would
pause, following with his eyes the curve of the great steel highway, carried on the stone shoulders
of successive arches, the sweep of its lines marked by a procession of lights, its outstretched,
interlocked palms gripped close. The memory of certain streets in London came to him--those
near its own great bridges, especially the city dump at Black-friars and the begrimed buildings
hugging the stone knees of London Bridge, choking up the snakelike alleys and byways leading
to the Embankment.

Crossing under the Elevated, he continued along the side of the giant piers and wheeled into
a dirt-choked, ill-smelling street, its distant outlet a blaze of electric lights. It was now
the dead hour of the twenty-four--the hour before the despatch of the millions of journals,
damp from the presses. He was the only human being in sight.

Suddenly, when within a hundred feet of the end of the street, a figure detached itself from
a deserted doorway. Felix caught his stick from under his armpit as the man held out a hand.

"Say, I want you to give me the price of a meal."

Felix tightened his hold on the stick. The words had conveyed a threat.

"This is no place for you to beg. Step out where people can see you."

"I'm hungry, mister." He had now taken in the width of O'Day's shoulders and the length of
his forearm. He had also seen the stick.

Felix stepped back one pace and slipped his hand down the blackthorn. "Move on, I tell you,
where I can look you over--quick!--I mean it."

"I ain't much to look at." The threat was out of his voice now. "I ain't eaten nothin' since
yisterday, mister, and I got that out of a ash-barrel. I'm up agin it hard. Can't you see I
ain't lyin'? You ain't never starved or you'd know. You ain't--" He wavered, his eyes glittering,
edged a step nearer, and with a quick lunge made a grab for O'Day's watch.

Felix sidestepped with the agility of a cat, struck straight out from the shoulder, and, with
a twist of his fingers in the tramp's neck-cloth, slammed him flat against the wall, where
he crouched, gasping for breath. "Oh, that's it, is it?" he said calmly, loosening his hold.

The man raised both hands in supplication. "Don't kill me! Listen to me--I ain't no thief--I'm
desperate. When you didn't give me nothin' and I got on to the watch--I got crazy. I'm glad
I didn't git it. I been a-walkin' the streets for two weeks lookin' for work. Last night I
slep' in a coal-bunker down by the docks, under the bridge, and I was goin' there agin when
you come along. I never tried to rob nobody before. Don't run me in--let me go this time. Look
into my face; you can see for yourself I'm hungry! I'll never do it agin. Try me, won't you?"
His tears were choking him, the elbow of his ragged sleeve pressed to his eyes.

Felix had listened without moving, trying to make up his mind, noting the drawn, haggard face,
the staring eyes and dry, fevered lips--all evidences of either hunger or vice, he was uncertain
which.

Then gradually, as the man's sobs continued, there stole over him that strange sense of kinship
in pain which comes to us at times when confronted with another's agony. The differences between
them--the rags of the one and the well-brushed garments of the other, the fact that one skulked
with his misery in dark alleys while the other bore his on the open highways--counted as nothing.
He and this outcast were bound together by the common need of those who find the struggle overwhelming.
Until that moment his own sufferings had absorbed him. Now the throb of the world's pain came
to him and sympathies long dormant began to stir.

"Straighten up and let me see your face," he said at last, intent on the tramp's abject misery.
"Out here where the full light can fall on it--that's right! Now tell me about yourself. How
long have you been like this?"

The man dragged himself to his feet.

"Ever since I lost my job." The question had calmed him. There was a note of hope in it.

"What work did you do?"

"I'm a plumber's helper."

"Work stopped?"

"No, a strike--I wouldn't quit, and they fired me."

"What happened then?"

"She went away."

"Who went away?"

"My wife."

"When?"

"About a month back."

"Did you beat her?"

"No, there was another man."

"Younger than you?"

"Yes."

"How old was she?"

"Eighteen."

"A girl, then."

"Yes, if you put it that way. She was all I had."

"Have you seen her since?"

"No, and I don't want to."

These questions and answers had followed in rapid succession, Felix searching for the truth
and the man trying to give it as best he could.

With the last answer the man drew a step nearer and, in a voice which was fast getting beyond
his control, said: "You know now, don't you? You can see it plain as day how long it takes
to make a bum of a man when he's up agin things like that. You--" He paused, listened intently,
and sprang back, hugging the wall. "What's that? Somebody comin'! My God! It's a cop! Don't
tell him--say you won't tell him--say it! SAY IT!"

Felix gripped his wrist. "Pull yourself together and keep still."

The officer, who was idly swinging a club as if for companionship along his lonely beat, stopped
short. "Any trouble, sir?" he said as soon as he had Felix's outline and bearing clear.

"No, thank you, officer. Only a friend of mine who needs a little looking after. I'll take
care of him."

"All right, sir," and he passed on down the narrow street.

The man gave a long breath and staggered against the wall. Felix caught him by his trembling
shoulders. "Now, brace up. The first thing you need is something to eat. There is a restaurant
at the corner. Come with me."

"They won't let me in."

"I'll take care of that."

Felix entered first. "What is there hot this time of night, barkeeper?"

"Frankfurters and beans, boss."

"Any coffee?"

"Sure."

"Send a double portion of each to this table," and he pulled out a chair. "Here's a man who
has missed his dinner. Is that enough?" and he laid down a dollar bill--one Kling had given him.

"Forty cents change, boss."

"Keep it, and see he gets all he wants. And now here," he said to the tramp, "is another dollar
to keep you going," and with a shift of his stick to his left arm Felix turned on his heel,
swung back the door, and was lost in the throng.

Kitty was up and waiting for him when he lifted the hinged wooden flap which provided an entrance
for the privileged and, guided by the glow of the kerosene lamp, turned the knob of her kitchen
door. She was close to the light, reading, the coffee-pot singing away on the stove, the aroma
of its contents filling the room.

"I hope I have not kept you up, Mrs. Cleary. You had my message by Mike, did you not?" he asked
in an apologetic tone.

"Yes, I got the message, and I got the trunks; they're up-stairs, and if you had given Mike
the keys I'd have 'em unpacked by this time and all ready for you. As to my bein' up--I'm always
up, and I got to be. John and Mike is over to Weehawken, and Bobby's been to the circus and
just gone to bed, and I've been readin' the mornin' paper--about the only time I get to read
it. Will ye sit down and wait till John comes in? Hold on 'til I get ye a cup of hot coffee and--"

"No, Mrs. Cleary. I will go to bed, if you do not mind."

"Oh, but the coffee will put new life into ye, and--"

"Thanks, but it would be more likely to put it OUT of me if it kept me awake. Can I reach my
room this way or must I go outside?"

"Ye can go through this door--wait, I'll go wid ye and show ye about the light and where ye'll
find the water. It's dark on the stairs and ye may stumble. I'll go on ahead and turn up the
gas in the hall," she called back, as she mounted the steps and threw wide his room door. "Not
much of a place, is it? But ye can get plenty of fresh air, and the bed's not bad. Ye can see
for yourself," and her stout fist sunk into its middle. "And there's your trunks and tin chest,
and the hat-box is beside the wash-stand, and the waterproof coat's in the closet. We have
breakfast at seven o'clock, and ye'll eat down-stairs wid me and John. And now good night to ye."

Felix thanked her for her attention in his simple, straightforward way, and, closing the door
upon her, dropped into a chair.

The night's experience had been like a sudden awakening. His anxiety over his dwindling finances
and his disappointment over Carlin's news had been put to flight by the suffering of the man
who had tried to rob him. There were depths, then, to which human suffering might drive a man,
depths he himself had never imagined or reached--horrible, deadly depths, without light or
hope, benumbing the best in a man, destroying his purposes by slow, insidious stages.

He arose from his chair and began walking up and down the small room, stopping now and then
to inspect a bureau drawer or to readjust one of the curtains shading the panes of glass. In
the same absent-minded way he drew out one of the trunks, unlocked it, paused now and then
with some garment in his hand only to awake again to consciousness and resume his task, pushing
the trunk back at last under the bed and continuing his walk about the narrow room, always
haunted by the tramp's haggard, hopeless look.

Again he felt the mysterious sense of kinship in pain that wipes away all distinctions. With
it, too, there came suddenly another sense--that of an overwhelming compassion out of which
new purposes are born to human souls.

The encounter, then, had been both a blessing and a warning. He would now stand guard against
the onslaught of his own sorrows while keeping up the fight, and this with renewed vigor. He
would earn money, too, since this was so necessary, laboring with his hands, if need be; and
he would do it all with a wide-open heart.

Chapter V

If O'Day's presence was a welcome addition to Kitty's household, it was nothing compared to
the effect produced at Kling's. Long before the month was out he had not only earned his entire
wages five times over by the changes he had wrought in the arrangement and classification of
the stock, but he had won the entire confidence of his employer. Otto had surrendered when
an old customer who had been in the habit of picking up rare bits of china, Japanese curios,
and carvings at his own value had been confronted with the necessity of either paying Felix's
price or going away without it, O'Day having promptly quadrupled the price on a piece of old
Dresden, not only because the purchaser was compelled to have it to complete his set but because
the interview had shown that the buyer was well aware he had obtained the former specimens
at one-fourth of their value.

And the same discernment was shown when he was purchasing old furniture, brass, and so-called
Sheffield plate to increase Otto's stock. If the articles offered could still boast of either
handle, leg, or back of their original state and the price was fair, they were almost always
bought, but the line was drawn at the fraudulent and "plugged-up" sideboards and chairs with
their legs shot full of genuine worm-holes; ancient Oriental stuffs of the time of the early
Persians (one year out of a German loom), rare old English plate, or undoubted George III silver,
decorated with coats of arms or initials and showing those precious little dents only produced
by long service--the whole fresh from a Connecticut factory. These never got past his scrutiny.
While it was true, as he had told Kling, that he knew very little in the way of trade and commerce--nothing
which would be of use to any one--he was a never-failing expert when it came to what is generally
known as "antiques" and "bric-a-brac."

Masie--Kling's only child--a slender, graceful little creature with a wealth of gold-yellow
hair flying about her pretty shoulders and a pair of blue eyes in which were mirrored the skies
of ten joyous springs, had given her heart to him at once. She had never forgotten his gentle
treatment of her dog Fudge, whose attack that first morning Felix had understood so well, lifting
and putting the refractory animal back in her arms instead of driving him off with a kick.
Fudge, whose manners were improving, had not forgotten either and was always under O'Day's
feet except when being fondled by the child.

Until Felix came she had had no other companions, some innate reserve keeping her from romping
with the children on the street, her sole diversion, except when playing at home among her
father's possessions or making a visit to Kitty, being found in the books of fairy-tales which
the old hunchback, Tim Kelsey, had lent her. At first this natural shyness had held her aloof
even from O'Day, content only to watch his face as he answered her childish appeals. But before
the first week had passed she had slipped her hand into his, and before the month was over
her arms were around his neck, her fresh, soft cheek against his own, cuddling close as she
poured out her heart in a continuous flow of prattle and laughter, her father looking on in
blank amazement.

For, while Kling loved her as most fathers love their motherless daughters, Felix had seen
at a glance that he was either too engrossed in his business or too dense and unimaginative
to understand so winning a child. She was Masie, "dot little girl of mine dot don't got no
mudder," or "Beesvings, who don't never be still," but that was about as far as his notice
of her went, except sending her to school, seeing that she was fed and clothed, and on such
state occasions as Christmas, New Year's, or birthdays, giving her meaningless little presents,
which, in most instances, were shut up in her bureau drawers, never to be looked at again.

Kitty, who remembered the child's mother as a girl with a far-away look in her eyes and a voice
of surprising sweetness, always maintained that it was a shame for Kling, who was many years
her senior, to have married the girl at all.

"Not, John, dear, that Otto isn't a decent man, as far as he goes," she had once said to him,
when the day's work was over and they were discussing their neighbors, "and that honest, too,
that he wouldn't get away with a sample trunk weighing a ton if it was nailed fast to the sidewalk,
and a good friend of ours who wouldn't go back on us, and never did. But that wife of his,
John! If she wasn't as fine as the best of em, then I miss my guess. She got it from that father
of hers--the clock-maker that never went out in the daytime, and hid himself in his back shop.
There was something I never understood about the two of 'em and his killing himself when he
did. Why, look at that little Masie! Can't ye see she is no more Kling's daughter than she
is mine? Ye can't hatch out hummin'-birds by sittin' on ducks' eggs, and that's what's the
matter over at Otto's."

"Well, whose eggs were they?" John had inquired, half asleep by the stove, his tired legs outstretched,
the evening paper dropping from his hand.

"Oh, I don't say that they are not Kling's right enough, John. Masie is his child, I know.
But what I say is that the mother is stamped all over the darling, and that Otto can't put
a finger on any part and call it his own."

Whether Kitty were right or wrong regarding the mystery is no part of our story, but certain
it was that the soul of the unhappy young mother looked through the daughter's eyes, that the
sweetness of the child's voice was hers, and the grace of every movement a direct inheritance
from one whose frail spirit had taken so early a flight.

To Felix this companionship, with the glimpses it gave him of a child's heart, refreshed his
own as a summer rain does a thirsty plant. Had she been his daughter, or his little sister,
or his niece, or grandchild, a certain sense of responsibility on his part and of filial duty
on hers would have clouded their perfect union. He would have had matters of education to insist
upon--perhaps of clothing and hygiene. She would have had her secrets--hidden paths on which
she wandered alone--things she could never tell to one in authority. As it was, bound together
as they were by only a mutual recognition, their joy in each other knew no bounds. To Masie
he was a refuge, some one who understood every thought before she had uttered it; to O'Day
she was a never-ending and warming delight.

And so this man of forty-five folded his arms about this child of ten, and held her close,
the opening chalice of her budding girlhood widening hourly at his touch--a sight to be reverenced
by every man and never to be forgotten by one privileged to behold it.

And with the intimacy which almost against his will held him to the little shop, there stole
into his life a certain content. Springs long dried in his own nature bubbled again. He felt
the sudden, refreshing sense of those who, after pent-up suffering, find the quickening of
new life within.

Mike noticed the change in the cheery greetings and in the passages of Irish wit with which
the new clerk welcomed him whenever he appeared in the store, and so did Kling, and even the
two Dutchies when Felix would drop into the cellar searching for what was still good enough
to be made over new. And so did Kitty and John and all at their home.

Masie alone noticed nothing. To her, "Uncle Felix," as she now called him, was always the same
adorable and comprehending companion, forever opening up to her new vistas of interest, never
too busy to answer her questions, never too preoccupied to explain the different objects he
was handling. If she were ever in the way, she was never made to feel it. Instead, so gentle
and considerate was he, that she grew to believe herself his most valuable assistant, daily
helping him to arrange the various new acquisitions.

One morning in June when they were busy over a lot of small curios, arranging bits of jade,
odd silver watches, seals, and pinchbeck rings, in a glass case that had been cleaned and revarnished,
the door opened and an old fellow strolled in--an odd-looking old fellow, with snow-white hair
and beard, wearing a black sombrero and a shirt cut very low in the neck. But for a pair of
kindly eyes, which looked out at you from beneath the brim of the hat, he might have been mistaken
for one of the dwarfs in "Rip Van Winkle." Fudge, having now been disciplined by Felix, only
sniffed at his trousers.

"I see an old gold frame in your window," began the new customer. "Might I measure it?"

"Which one, sir?" replied Felix. "There are half a dozen of them, I believe."

"Well; will you please come outside? And I will point it out. It is the Florentine, there in
the corner--perhaps a reproduction, but it looks to me like the real thing."

"It is a Florentine," answered Felix. "There are two or three pictures in the Uffizi with similar
frames, if I recall them aright. Would you like a look at it?"

"I don't want to trouble you to take it out," said the old man apologetically. "It might not
do, and I can't afford to pay much for it anyway. But I would like to measure it; I've got
an Academy picture which I think will just fit it, but you can't always tell. No, I guess I'll
let it go. It's all covered up, and you would have to move everything to reach it."

"No, I won't have to move a thing. Here, you bunch of sunshine! Squeeze in there, Masie, dear,
and let me know how wide and high that frame is--the one next the glass. Take this rule."

The child caught up the rule and, followed by Fudge, who liked nothing so well as rummaging,
crept among the jars, mirrors, and candelabra crowding the window, her steps as true as those
of a kitten. "Twenty inches by thirty-one--no, thirty," she laughed back, tucking her little
skirts closer to her shapely limbs so as to clear a tiny table set out with cups and saucers.

"You're sure it's thirty?" repeated the painter.

"Yes, sir, thirty," and she crept back and laid the rule in O'Day's hand.

