Fiction has not been confined to the study of manners and character, but has been extensively
used to propagate opinions and to argue causes. Novels have been written in support of religious
views, Catholic, High-Church, and Low-Church; political novels have supported the interests
of Tory, Whig, anti-slavery, and civil service; philosophical novels have exposed the evils
of society as at present constituted, and have built up impossible utopias. Besides the novel
of purpose, there has been the novel of fancy, in which the imagination has been allowed to
soar unchecked in the regions of the unreal and the supernatural.

With so great a variety of works of fiction, it is not surprising to find a corresponding variety
of authorship. Lords and ladies, generals and colonels have entered the lists against police
court reporters and female adventurers. The novel is no longer the exclusive work of a professional
author. Amateurs have attempted it to pass the time which hung heavily on their hands; to put
into form their dreams or experiences; to gratify a mere literary vanity. The needy nobleman
has made profitable use of his name on the title-page of a novel purporting to give information
concerning fashionable life. But the most remarkable characteristic of novel-writing has been
the important part taken by women. They have adopted fiction as their special department of
literature, and have shown their capacity for it by the production of novels which fully equal
in number and almost equal in merit the works of their masculine rivals. On her own ground,
George Eliot has no superior, while the writings of Miss Austen, of Miss Edgeworth, of Miss
Ferrier, of Mrs. Stowe, not to mention many others, are to be ranked among the best works of
fiction in any language. But while women have contributed their full share of novels, both
as regards quantity and merit, they have also contributed much more than what we think their
full share of worthless and immoral writing. Bad women will have literary capacity as well
as bad men, but it is doubly shocking to find that the prurient thoughts, the indecent allusions,
and immoral opinions which are often met with in the novels of the day proceed from that sex
which ought to be the stronghold of modesty and virtue.

And this matter becomes very important when we consider the position which works of fiction
have attained in the present century. In the days of Mrs. Behn, Mrs. Heywood, Fielding, or
Smollett, coarseness of thought and language was so general that it naturally had a prominent
place in novels. All persons who objected to licentious scenes and gross expressions in the
reading of themselves or their children excluded works of fiction. As Miss Edgeworth said,
most novels were filled with vice or folly, and as Miss Burney complained, no body of literary
men were so numerous, or so little respectable as novelists. But, in the hands of such writers
as Sir Walter Scott, as Miss Ferrier, as Miss Austen, as Dickens, as Thackeray, as Charles
Kingsley, as Mr. Anthony Trollope, the novel has achieved for itself a position of respectability
and dignity which seems to remain unimpaired, notwithstanding the efforts of many authors to
destroy it. Works of fiction are to be found in every home, in the hands of parents, in the
hands of young boys and girls. The word novel has been given so high a signification by the
great names which are associated with it, that parental censorship has almost ceased. It is
impossible that a form of literature to which so many and so great minds have been devoted,
and which takes so prominent a place in the favor of the reading public, should not be without
a powerful influence. Let us look more closely at the works of fiction of the nineteenth century,
and then endeavor to determine how far their influence has been for good, and how far for evil.