But, since such treatment gives a totally false idea of his achievement, this little sketch,
drawn straight from original sources, tries to show him as he really was, a co-worker with
the British fleet in a war based entirely on naval strategy and inseparably connected with
international affairs of world-wide significance. The only simplification attempted here is
that of arrangement and expression.

W.W.

Quebec, April 1914.

CONTENTS

I.    THE BOY II.   THE YOUNG SOLDIER III.  THE SEVEN YEARS' PEACE IV.   THE SEVEN YEARS' WAR
V.    LOUISBOURG VI.   QUEBEC VII.  THE PLAINS OF ABRAHAM VIII. EPILOGUE--THE LAST STAND

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

CHAPTER I

THE BOY 1727-1741

Wolfe was a soldier born. Many of his ancestors had stood ready to fight for king and country
at a moment's notice. His father fought under the great Duke of Marlborough in the war against
France at the beginning of the eighteenth century. His grandfather, his great-grandfather,
his only uncle, and his only brother were soldiers too. Nor has the martial spirit deserted
the descendants of the Wolfes in the generation now alive. They are soldiers still. The present
head of the family, who represented it at the celebration of the tercentenary of the founding
of Quebec, fought in Egypt for Queen Victoria; and the member of it who represented Wolfe on
that occasion, in the pageant of the Quebec campaign, is an officer in the Canadian army under
George V.

The Wolfes are of an old and honourable line. Many hundreds of years ago their forefathers
lived in England and later on in Wales. Later still, in the fifteenth century, before America
was discovered, they were living in Ireland. Wolfe's father, however, was born in England;
and, as there is no evidence that any of his ancestors in Ireland had married other than English
Protestants, and as Wolfe's mother was also English, we may say that the victor of Quebec was
a pure-bred Englishman. Among his Anglo-Irish kinsmen were the Goldsmiths and the Seymours.
Oliver Goldsmith himself was always very proud of being a cousin of the man who took Quebec.

Wolfe's mother, to whom he owed a great deal of his genius; was a descendant of two good families
in Yorkshire. She was eighteen years younger than his father, and was very tall and handsome.
Wolfe thought there was no one like her. When he was a colonel, and had been through the wars
and at court, he still believed she was 'a match for all the beauties.' He was not lucky enough
to take after her in looks, except in her one weak feature, a cutaway chin. His body, indeed,
seems to have been made up of the bad points of both parents: he had his rheumatism from his
father. But his spirit was made up of all their good points; and no braver ever lived in any
healthy body than in his own sickly, lanky six foot three.

Wolfe's parents went to live at Westerham in Kent shortly after they were married; and there,
on January 2, 1727, in the vicarage--where Mrs Wolfe was staying while her husband was away
on duty with his regiment--the victor of Quebec was born. Two other houses in the little country
town of Westerham are full of memories of Wolfe. One of these was his father's, a house more
than two hundred years old when he was born. It was built in the reign of Henry VII, and the
loyal subject who built it had the king's coat of arms carved over the big stone fireplace.
Here Wolfe and his younger brother Edward used to sit in the winter evenings with their mother,
while their veteran father told them the story of his long campaigns. So, curiously enough,
it appears that Wolfe, the soldier who won Canada for England in 1759, sat under the arms of
the king in whose service the sailor Cabot hoisted the flag of England over Canadian soil in
1497. This house has been called Quebec House ever since the victory in 1759. The other house
is Squerryes Court, belonging then and now to the Warde family, the Wolfes' closest friends.
Wolfe and George Warde were chums from the first day they met. Both wished to go into the Army;
and both, of course, 'played soldiers,' like other virile boys. Warde lived to be an old man
and actually did become a famous cavalry leader. Perhaps when he charged a real enemy, sword
in hand, at the head of thundering squadrons, it may have flashed through his mind how he and
Wolfe had waved their whips and cheered like mad when they galloped their ponies down the common
with nothing but their barking dogs behind them.

Wolfe's parents presently moved to Greenwich, where he was sent to school at Swinden's. Here
he worked quietly enough till just before he entered on his 'teens. Then the long-pent rage
of England suddenly burst in war with Spain. The people went wild when the British fleet took
Porto Bello, a Spanish port in Central America. The news was cried through the streets all
night. The noise of battle seemed to be sounding all round Swinden's school, where most of
the boys belonged to naval and military families. Ships were fitting out in English harbours.
Soldiers were marching into every English camp. Crowds were singing and cheering. First one
boy's father and then another's was under orders for the front. Among them was Wolfe's father,
who was made adjutant-general to the forces assembling in the Isle of Wight. What were history
and geography and mathematics now, when a whole nation was afoot to fight! And who would not
fight the Spaniards when they cut off British sailors' ears? That was an old tale by this time;
but the flames of anger threw it into lurid relief once more.

Wolfe was determined to go and fight. Nothing could stop him. There was no commission for him
as an officer. Never mind! He would go as a volunteer and win his commission in the field.
So, one hot day in July 1740, the lanky, red-haired boy of thirteen-and-a-half took his seat
on the Portsmouth coach beside his father, the veteran soldier of fifty-five. His mother was
a woman of much too fine a spirit to grudge anything for the service of her country; but she
could not help being exceptionally anxious about the dangers of disease for a sickly boy in
a far-off land of pestilence and fever. She had written to him the very day he left. But he,
full of the stir and excitement of a big camp, had carried the letter in his pocket for two
or three days before answering it. Then he wrote her the first of many letters from different
seats of war, the last one of all being written just before he won the victory that made him
famous round the world.

   Newport, Isle of Wight, August 6th, 1740.

   I received my dearest Mamma's letter on Monday last,
   but could not answer it then, by reason I was at camp
   to see the regiments off to go on board, and was too
   late for the post; but am very sorry, dear Mamma, that
   you doubt my love, which I'm sure is as sincere as
   ever any son's was to his mother.

   Papa and I are just going on board, but I believe
   shall not sail this fortnight; in which time, if I
   can get ashore at Portsmouth or any other town, I will
   certainly write to you, and, when we are gone, by
   every ship we meet, because I know it is my duty.
   Besides, if it is not, I would do it out of love, with
   pleasure.

