TO WHICH IS PREFIXED
                   A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF HEINE.

                              NEW YORK:
                    R. WORTHINGTON, 770 BROADWAY.
                                1881.

                              COPYRIGHT,
                                1881,
                           BY EMMA LAZARUS.

                                                                PAGE
  HEINRICH HEINE, (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH)                            v
  EARLY POEMS                                                      1
    SONNETS TO MY MOTHER, B. HEINE, née VON GELDERN              3
    THE SPHINX                                                     5
    DONNA CLARA                                                    9
    DON RAMIRO                                                    15
    TANNHÄUSER                                                    25
    IN THE UNDERWORLD                                             38
    THE VALE OF TEARS                                             45
    SOLOMON                                                       47
    MORPHINE                                                      49
    SONG                                                          50
    SONG                                                          51
    SONG                                                          54
  HOMEWARD BOUND                                                  57
  SONGS TO SERAPHINE                                             135
    TO ANGELIQUE                                                 147
    SPRING FESTIVAL                                              156
    CHILDE HAROLD                                                157
    THE ASRA                                                     158
    HELENA                                                       160
    SONG                                                         161
  THE NORTH SEA--FIRST CYCLUS                                    165
       I. CORONATION                                             165
      II. TWILIGHT                                               167
     III. SUNSET                                                 168
      IV. NIGHT ON THE SHORE                                     171
       V. POSEIDON                                               174
      VI. DECLARATION                                            177
     VII. NIGHT IN THE CABIN                                     179
    VIII. STORM                                                  183
      IX. CALM                                                   185
       X. AN APPARITION IN THE SEA                               187
      XI. PURIFICATION                                           190
     XII. PEACE                                                  192
  SECOND CYCLUS                                                  195
       I. SALUTATION TO THE SEA                                  195
      II. TEMPEST                                                198
     III. WRECKED                                                199
      IV. SUNSET                                                 202
       V. THE SONG OF THE OCEANIDES                              205
      VI. THE GODS OF GREECE                                     209
     VII. THE PHOENIX                                            214
    VIII. QUESTION                                               215
      IX. SEA-SICKNESS                                           216
       X. IN PORT                                                220
      XI. EPILOGUE                                               223

HEINRICH HEINE.

(BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.)

Harry Heine, as he was originally named, was born in Düsseldorf on the Rhine, December 13th,
1799. His father was a well-to-do Jewish merchant; and his mother, the daughter of the famous
physician and Aulic Counlor Von Geldern, was, according to her son, a "femme distinguée." His
early childhood fell in the days of the occupation of Düsseldorf by the French revolutionary
troops; and, in the opinion of his biographer Strodtmann, the influence of the French rule,
thus brought directly to bear upon the formation of his character, can scarcely be exaggerated.
His education was begun at the Franciscan monastery of the Jesuits at Düsseldorf, where the
teachers were mostly French priests; and his religious instruction was at the same time carried
on in a private Jewish school. His principal companions were Jewish children, and he was brought
up with a rigid adherence to the Hebrew faith. Thus in the very seed-time of his mental development
were simultaneously sown the germs of that Gallic liveliness and mobility which pre-eminently
distinguish him among German authors, and also of his ineradicable sympathy with things Jewish,
and his inveterate antagonism to the principles and results of Christianity.

As the medical profession was in those days the only one open to Jews in Germany, the boy Heine
was destined for a commercial career; and in 1815 his father took him to Frankfort to establish
him in a banking-house. But a brief trial proved that he was utterly unsuited to the situation,
and after two months he was back again in Düsseldorf. Three years later he went to Hamburg,
and made another attempt to adopt a mercantile pursuit under the auspices of his uncle, the
wealthy banker Solomon Heine. The millionaire, however, was very soon convinced that the "fool
of a boy" would never be fit for a counting-house, and declared himself willing to furnish
his nephew with the means for a three years, course at the university, in order to obtain a
doctor's degree and practice law in Hamburg. It was well-known that this would necessitate
Harry's adoption of Christianity; but his proselytism did not strike those whom it most nearly
concerned in the same way as it has impressed the world. So far from this being the case, he
wrote in 1823 to his friend Moser: "Here the question of baptism enters; none of my family
is opposed to it except myself; but this myself is of a peculiar nature. With my mode of thinking,
you can imagine that the mere act of baptism is indifferent to me; that even symbolically I
do not consider it of any importance, and that I shall only dedicate myself more entirely to
upholding the rights of my unhappy brethren. But, nevertheless, I find it beneath my dignity
and a taint upon my honor, to allow myself to be baptized in order to hold office in Prussia.
I understand very well the Psalmist's words: 'Good God, give me my daily bread, that I may
not blaspheme thy name!'" What failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did
not know where they walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that
this stupidity came to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy,
the brutal laughter that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures
of my gun. And so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon,
if not the skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed
shots. This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of
a great weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told
the truth as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game,
the priest Don Sabas, but no weapon that pinto club that served as
a cane.

Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and
called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer
down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and
how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened
and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of
Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources
in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in
the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and
the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights
of the mountain did not seem to himself.

It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked,
not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts
in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was
related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled
"cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to
life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall"
on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying
the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after
this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense
book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language,
the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning,
the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end
of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by
the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down
over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ... Oh!
diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara
in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing at will, to live at
ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and
worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how
deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable
competence as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel
natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it was
like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with
the man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my
own, leaving appear in it as the careless, to surprise the best in
their intimacy.

Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at Mass the previous Sunday,
I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak,
and even clothing.

All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all
women had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed
over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded blond
and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square
to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same
calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same expression
of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing vision of
the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened
and suspense.

I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way:
that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane built
by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and the
kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge corresponding
to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke box." Outdoor
accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young. As a
characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru"
with beautiful mound. But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which
are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms
of taste so signally classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a
conversation between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression, undergoes
alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate during the
summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing
wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash. I spoke
with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from
him, and did not find the slightest difference that distinguished
in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at all, its other
neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable
signs that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue
that brings them, as if they only had eyes heart to see and feel the
native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs
public and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that
Property of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home,
from where it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts'
bartenders, "and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit
rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage
everywhere, but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the
earth, as among primitive peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half
dozen or panicles a miller chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant
harvest of promise in the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no
maize, which is the main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good
walk, are in frequent treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade.

They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals
pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this
task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and
long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting",
the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters,
and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm
implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right,
but not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota
of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the
warm welcome I excused the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the middle,
then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said,"
to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little lick pa verdinis
Estus is the moriu esborrega around here. " And so it happened.

Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm and a further four 'Pedric
"he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that gate and ended up with the "poverty"
of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu 'he had resolved
to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases less than that the
interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and got into big care
carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and
life I had done since then.

She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco was a good companion to
walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau"
as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen."

If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest
and serving workers as it was and where he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia of law
", close the door of his house. Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either is the
opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but
was not "to each Callejues regolver" a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew
him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes, but it was a very different looking from his father,
and he understood. The mother was on the road different than her husband, and snuggled closer
to those of the daughter ... In addition and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was
good for everyone. But what "amejao" my father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu"
because Don John Antonio I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place
without having Hair beard yet, then again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here
and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through
the land of God and the woman who waited to marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu"
he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness
and other penalties had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!"
with the best of Caórnica, home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar. It seemed I was
seeing, so arrogantona and so ... and then involved with their softness ... But God had not wanted
things happen from there, and today a son, and tomorrow another, had been the three who had been
taking, and finally it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the light and joy of the house,
which fenecería "Tomorrow or the otru" with the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And
deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter, and in closing the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca
would not live for his, no one came over in the valley as old as the same river that crossed?
So he was glad both of my coming. Permission might well be of God. Because if I take attachment
to the land, what better owner for the house, no more pompous Lord for the entire valley,
when Don Celso missing? Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering! For now, there had to serve him
in whatever he wanted to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA" if it wanted more plain and familiar,
because it was called the mote, did not know why, but it was the truth that offended him ...
Anyway, was closed gap ...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent kidney and fairly wide
apart, and faced me. His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than
look at him and hear him. He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against
his pants, Smote face down on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth
chipped box. It was an old man's face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice
and very hard to "hinge", ie, awkward their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate
of others, I felt very well looked after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and
filth his whole person, which were very large ... Still, it was interesting and very nice the old
man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building more than the
current rate in the village -. Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu
- he answered, pointing with his opposite -.

Above tejau of the first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru vencíu and detraseru jastialón
of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like those of all mountain areas,
have no rhyme or reason to each other, a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper
cauldron on his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand. The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he
winked at me, turned back and told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father of Tanasi
... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching her
carefully, because time was passing in front us.



  Before the doorway crouched a sphinx,
    Half horror and half grace;
  With a lion's body, a lion's claws,
    And a woman's breast and face.

  A woman fair! The marble glance
    Spake wild desire and guile.
  The silent lips were proudly curled
    In a confident, glad smile.

  The nightingale, she sang so sweet,
    I yielded to her tone.
  I touched, I kissed the lovely face,
    And lo, I was undone!

  The marble image stirred with life,
    The stone began to move;
  She drank my fiery kisses' glow
    With panting thirsty love.

  She well nigh drank my breath away;
    And, lustful still for more,
  Embraced me, and my shrinking flesh
    With lion claws she tore.

  Oh, rapturous martyrdom! ravishing pain!
    Oh, infinite anguish and bliss!
  With her horrible talons she wounded me,
    While she thrilled my soul with a kiss.

  The nightingale sang: "Oh beautiful sphinx.
    Oh love! what meaneth this?
  That thou minglest still the pangs of death
    With thy most peculiar bliss?

  Thou beautiful Sphinx, oh solve for me
    This riddle of joy and tears!
  I have pondered it over again and again,
    How many thousand years!"

DONNA CLARA.

  In the evening through her garden
  Wanders the Alcalde's daughter;
  Festal sounds of drum and trumpet
  Ring out hither from the castle.

  "I am weary of the dances,
  Honeyed words of adulation
  From the knights who still compare me
  To the sun,--with dainty phrases.

  "Yes, of all things I am weary,
  Since I first beheld by moonlight,
  Him my cavalier, whose zither
  Nightly draws me to my casement.

  "As he stands, so slim and daring,
  With his flaming eyes that sparkle
  From his nobly-pallid features,
  Truly he St. George resembles."

  Thus went Donna Clara dreaming,
  On the ground her eyes were fastened,
  When she raised them, lo! before her
  Stood the handsome, knightly stranger.

  Pressing hands and whispering passion,
  These twain wander in the moonlight.
  Gently doth the breeze caress them,
  The enchanted roses greet them.

  The enchanted roses greet them,
  And they glow like love's own heralds;
  "Tell me, tell me, my belovèd,
  Wherefore, all at once thou blushest."

  "Gnats were stinging me, my darling,
  And I hate these gnats in summer,
  E'en as though they were a rabble
  Of vile Jews with long, hooked noses."

  "Heed not gnats nor Jews, belovèd,"
  Spake the knight with fond endearments.
  From the almond-tree dropped downward
  Myriad snowy flakes of blossoms.

  Myriad snowy flakes of blossoms
  Shed around them fragrant odors.
  "Tell me, tell me, my belovèd,
  Looks thy heart on me with favor?"

  "Yes, I love thee, oh my darling,
  And I swear it by our Savior,
  Whom the accursèd Jews did murder
  Long ago with wicked malice."

  "Heed thou neither Jews nor Savior,"
  Spake the knight with fond endearments;
  Far-off waved as in a vision
  Gleaming lilies bathed in moonlight.

  Gleaming lilies bathed in moonlight
  Seemed to watch the stars above them.
  "Tell me, tell me, my belovèd,
  Didst thou not erewhile swear falsely?"

  "Naught is false in me, my darling,
  E'en as in my bosom floweth
  Not a drop of blood that's Moorish,
  Neither of foul Jewish current."

  "Heed not Moors nor Jews, belovèd,"
  Spake the knight with fond endearments.
  Then towards a grove of myrtles
  Leads he the Alcalde's daughter.

  And with love's slight, subtle meshes,
  He hath trapped her and entangled;
  Brief their words, but long their kisses,
  For their hearts are overflowing.

  What a melting bridal carol,
  Sings the nightingale, the pure one!
  How the fire-flies in the grasses
  Trip their sparkling, torch-light dances! 

The fierce old man's hand slipped from the neck to the arm of his prisoner, but not reduce
the pressure under which he had seized.

- Carlos Thomas, come with me - he said then.

She took her captive and the hotel he was staying.

What took place there has not leaked out, but the next morning it was learned that Mr. Thomas had given
to the prodigal son.

However, neither the appearance of the manners of the young justified a keen observer the previous
narrative. Serious, reserved and dignified, and addicted body and soul to his newfound father,
accepted the benefits and responsibilities of their new status with
a certain air of formality, which resembled that needed to society
of San Francisco and she threw him.

Some wanted to dismiss this quality as a tendency to "sing psalms",
others saw in it the qualities inherited from the father, and were
ready to prophesy for the child it takes age, but everyone agreed
that it was compatible with the habits of doing money, in which father
and son had agreed in a unique way.

And yet, the old man appeared who was not happy.

Perhaps because the realization of their wishes he had left without a practical mission, perhaps,
and this is most likely, had little love for the son he had so fortunately recovered. The obedience
required of him, he was willingly granted, the conversion that had his whole soul was full,
and yet, none of this will satisfy his spirit. There complied with all requirements of their religious
duty to redeem his son, and yet, it seemed that something was missing his brilliant action.
In such a doubt, the parable of leyose Prodigal Son, who had never
lost sight of in their pilgrimage, and noted that there omitted the
final feast of reconciliation.

There seemed to be offered anything better than the desired quality the formal sacrament between
him and his son so that a year after onset Charles, was prepared to give a sumptuous feast.

- Gather, call everyone, Carlos - he said solemnly, - to let everyone
know that I have out of the depths of iniquity and the company of
pigs and women lost and Send them to eat, drink and rejoice.

I do not know if the old man had for this other reason, not analyzed yet.

The beautiful house that had built on the sandy hills, seemed lonely
sometimes and sad.

Often caught himself trying to rebuild with serious features Carlos those of one boy whose
vague recollection served him well in the past and today both worried. We imagined that this was
a sign that old age is approaching and with it a new children.

One day in her ceremonial hall gave face to face with a child of one of the servants, who ventured
to get there, and wanted to take her in his arms: but the boy fled
to his sullen and wrinkled face.

For all this, it seemed very appropriate to gather at home the good society San Francisco,
and between that exposure of young girls choose the partner of his son. Then have a grandson,
a child who raise from the beginning and who would love, as no Carlos loved.

Needless to say, we all went to the banquet.

Distinguished society that came equipped with animation that exuberance, joy and verve, without
restraint or respect for host, that most distributed as generous as possible, mainly at the expense
of the festivities. The thing had ended with scandal, actors do not
belong to higher social scale.

Indeed, Mr. Tibet, endowed by nature with witty humor and also excited
by the bright eyes of the girls Jonnes, behaved in a manner that attracted
the serious eyes of Don Carlos Thomas, who approached him, saying
almost in his ear:

- It seems that you feel bad, Mr. Tibet; let me
drive his carriage.

(Hold on dog, and I cast out the window). Around here, if you like, the room is heated and
perhaps to be harmful.

Needless to say, only a part of this speech was noticeable to society
and the rest reported Mr Tibet, feeling in his soul that his sudden
illness will deprived of what the most eccentric of the girls Jonnes,
christened "the bouquet end of the party ', and I will refer.

The event was saved for the final dinner.

Mr. Thomas was probably blind eye to the disorderly conduct of young people, absorbed in meditation
dramatic effect was in incubation.

At the time of getting the cloth, stood up and knocked on the table
solemnly.

Among girls Jonnes, began a little cough which infected all that
side of the table.

Carlos Thomas, from one end of it, looked up with tender expectation.

-
Going to sing a hymn.

- Going to pray.

- Silence!

Is a speech!

These voices turned to the room.

And Mr. Thomas began:

- One year ago today, brothers and sisters
in Christ - said with severe pause, - a year meets Today, my son returned
to run the swamps of vice and health spending their daughters sin.

The laughter stopped abruptly.

- See him now, Carlos Thomas, arise!

Carlos Thomas obeyed.

- Today a year ago and can now contemplate.

In truth, the prodigal son was a beautiful, standing there with his severe suit fashion. A repentant
prodigal, with sad eyes and obediently turned to look hard and nasty the author of his days.

Miss
Smith, a cocoon of fifteen years, felt in the depths of her pure loquillo heart an involuntary
movement of sympathy for him.

- Fifteen years ago he left my house - said Mr. Thomas, - made a spendthrift and a rake. But
I myself was a man of sin ... Oh, friends in Christ! A man of anger and .--(« grudge Amen "-
said most of the Jonnes).

But, praise God, I escaped from my own cholera. Five years I got the peace that surpasses
human understanding. Do you have, friends?

A subcoro of "no, no, by the girls, and a" come the watchword "for the lieutenant, Coxe, of the
sloop of war the United States, The Terror, served response.

- "Knock and it shall be opened."

And when I discovered the error of my way and the preciousness of grace - continued Mr. Thomas
- came to give it to my dear offspring. I searched land and sea not faint. I did not expect him to
come to me, which might have done, to justify myself the book of
books in hand, but I looked him in the mud, including pigs, y. ..

(The end of the sentence was lost by the friction of the dresses of the ladies to retire). Works
Brothers in Christ, is my motto, "know them by their works" and there are mine, everyone can judge
the light of day.

And in saying this, Mr Thomas, gesticulating and making strange faces, staring towards an open
door to the terrace was crowded with onlookers little raised and turned now the scene of an
infernal tumult.

Amid the noise, ever increasingly, a man miserably dressed and drunk
as a soup, made his way through between those who opposed him, and
entered the room with no way secure.

The sharp contrast between the fog and the darkness outside and the glare and heat inside dazzled
him, so in his stupor he took off his battered hat and passed one
or two times before his eyes, as he maintained, although with little
security, against the back of a couch.

Suddenly his roving eye fell on the pale face of Charles Thomas,
and a flash of intelligence and weak child falsetto laugh, and fell
forward, agarrose at the table, brought down the glasses, and finally
dropped to the young man's chest.

- Carlos!

Rogue Caramba! How are you?

- Silence! Sit!

Shut up! - Said Carlos Thomas, struggling to rid themselves quickly the embrace of his untimely
visit.

- Look at him! - Continued the stranger, ignoring the warning and most carefree.

And loving and expressive tone of admiration, and retaining the poor
Carlos with shaky wrist full of tenderness, he continued:

- Behold,
then, that rascal!

Carlos, God damn me, I'm proud of you!

- Get out of the house! - Mr. Thomas said, rising with the menacing and cold stare of his gray
eyes, and summoning of authority .-- Carlos, how dare you ...

-
Calm down, old man!

Carlos, who is that guy going?

Run!

- Shut up, fool!

Come, take this! - And with nervous hands full of liquor Carlos Thomas Drink a glass .-- and
go, until tomorrow ... anywhere, but let us, go away and leave us
in peace.

But before he could drink the miserable, old, white with rage, rushed
on the intruder, and grabbing it with his powerful arms and dragging
it through the group of frightened diners around them, reached the
door wide open by the servants, when Carlos Thomas exclaimed, with
an anguished cry:

- Stop!

Strikes the elderly. Through the door wide open, the fog and the wind carried inside a cold snap.

- What does this - he asked, turning to Charles her angry face.

-
Nothing!

But stop, I beg ... Wait until tomorrow, but not tonight. Not right. Please. For the love of
God, do not you do that.

In the tone of the voice of the young, or perhaps contact fighting between their miserable
powerful arms, he had a something indefinable and strange. Anyway, a confusing terror and indefinable
seized the old man's heart, which he whispered wild:

- Who is this guy?

Carlos did not answer.

- Behind all! - A voice of thunder cried Mr. Thomas to the guests around him .-- Charles Come
here! I say to you, I ... I ... I ... I pray ... tell me who this man. Now same.

Two people, just heard the answer that came out, weak and broken, lips Charles Thomas

- IS YOUR CHILD.

* * * * * * *

The next day, when the sun had passed the barren sand hills, the guests
had disappeared from the festive halls of Mr. Thomas.

The lights were still burning pale Banquet sad in deserts and in the midst of this neglect,
only three people huddled squeezed into a corner of the cold room,
forming a mass. The one lying on a couch I slept the sleep of drunkenness,
she sat at his feet we've known for Carlos Thomas and with both shrunken
and reduced to half its size figure of Mr. encorvábase Thomas, a sullen
look, elbows on knees and hands covering her ears, as to avoid the
sad, pleading voice that seemed to fill the areas of the room.

-
Well known to voluntarily not use artifice to deceive you.

The name I gave that night was the first thing that came to mind,
just a name whom I thought dead, the companion of my life dissolute
libertine.

When I later you asked, I used the knowledge that he had acquired, to soften your heart and
win it for a decent life. I swear I just went for it! And when I say who was opened for the
first time I saw before me a new life ... then ... then ... Oh, sir!
yes, I was hungry, naked and without appeal, if he steal his pocket,
I felt lonely in the world, unhappy and desperate, when I wanted to
steal the tenderness of a father in pain.

The old man remained stolid.

From their sumptuous bed, the prodigal son recovered snoring confidently.

-
I had no father could claim.

I never knew another home that I had to now.

I fell into temptation. I was so happy ... so happy!

He stood up and stood before the old.

- No matter I stand between your child and inheritance. I depart today from this place ever
return. The world is large, and, thank goodness, I now earn an honest living. Goodbye! Will not
you take my hand? ... Sea Goodbye

And he turned to leave. But when it came to the door, fell suddenly, and raising both hands
the grizzled old man's head, kissed a few more times with effusion.

- Carlos!

There was no response.

- Carlos!

The old man sat up trembling and swaying weakly ran to the door. Was open. For it came the tumult
of a great city that wakes up, and among this crowd the footsteps of the prodigal son who were lost
in the distance, forever.

MAGDALENA

The car slid painfully down the narrow road, giving frequent shocks. In Inside were seven people
who had not taken off the lips from one of those jumps came to leave
without finishing the final round of court poetry, my honorable neighbor.

Man high sitting next to him, slept with his arm hanging past the belt, and supported the head it
was like a soft object, indefinable, it seemed that it had hanged to himself, and he had cut the
rope that had been instrumental. On the seat later, the French lady dozing too, keeping an attitude
of studied restraint, view was put in the position of the dropped handkerchief on his face
half hidden ruddy face. Another lady from Virginia City, traveling with her husband, lay in
a corner, wrapped in a sea of ​​ribbons, fur and coats completely flooded him. No perceived noise
but the grating of the wheels and the rain beating the imperial when suddenly the coach stopped,
and heard voices coming up confused us. The driver held a live conversation with someone on
the road, we thought dialogue unflattering should be judged by the
words in the midst of the furious wind blowing we saw, "dragged bridge
',' flooded road," "step impossible and the like.

The most absolute silence reigned for a moment, then launched a mysterious
voice from the road this advice:

- Test at home in Magdalena.

By giving the vehicle a sharp turn, we could glimpse the front horses,
and then a rider who faded into the mist.

Undoubtedly, started for the house Magdalena.

Who was and where was Madeleine? The Judge, our authority, said he did not remember that name,
and that he knew the entire country, the Canadian traveler would have thought that Magdalena inn,
but all I really knew was that the floodwaters had cut us the way
to the front and back, and that Magdalene was saving our table.

For space of ten minutes we were flooded by a winding road, barely wide for diligence, and stopped
in front of a barred gate and aforrada, set to a large wall about six feet tall. This was, without
doubt, the home of Magdalena. But no doubt also, that woman had no inn. The driver got out and
fumbled the door I was firmly closed.

- Magdalena!

Magdalena!

Nobody answered.

- Magdalena! You, Magdalena! - Continued the coachman increasingly evident irritation.

- Magdalena! - Email persuasively added .-- Oh, Magdalene!

But the so-Magdalena, apparently insensible, gave no answer.

The judge had down the glass of the window, pulled out the head,
and began a series of questions that, to be answered satisfactorily
elucidated have no doubt, anyone mystery.

To all this the charioteer replied that if we jumped in the car to help call Magdalene might have
to stay overnight there.

We got up, then, and called Magdalena in chorus, and then every man
to himself, and we had just over, when a hibernate, traveling companion,
shouted from the imperial Magdalena! a strange accent that we all
laughed.

While we were laughing, our driver said loudly:

- Silence!

All listened, and with infinite admiration hear the choir of Magdalen! repeated the other side of
the wall, along with the final and infamous cry of hibernation.

-
Extraordinary echo! - Said the judge.

- Extraordinary and remaldito!
- Said the driver, scornfully .-- Salt and hence, Magdalena, and show
yourself in person at a time.

Be human.

Do not play hide and seek, I would joke to your Instead, Magdalena - continued Yuba-Bill,
which was too much anger around and kicking.

- Magdalena! - Continued the voice .-- Oh, Magdalena!

- My good lord - said the judge, in the most pathetic tone .-- Imagine
inhospitable to refuse shelter from inclement weather, homeless women.

My dear Lord! Thinking ...

A litany of Magdalena ending with a laugh interrupted his peroration.

Yuba-Bill ran out of patience, taking a heavy stone road broke down the gate, and followed Mail
entered the enclosure, we took the same direction.

There was the most complete dark, and everything we know, because
we sprayed the roses with her wet foliage at every gust of wind, was
that we were in a garden or something similar.

- Do you know the
tenant of this house? - Asked the judge to Yuba-Bill.

- No, no desire
- Yuba-Bill said dryly, looking offended in his person, so stubborn
individual, a company pioneering the whole proceedings.

- Well, yes
we have made good !...-- said the judge, thinking the gate raided.

-
Look here - "said Yuba Bill, with delicate irony - had better not
come back and take a seat in the car until you tell me?

I enter.

And said and done, he pushed the door of the house.

In tight beam penetrates all in a long room lit only by the embers
of a fire that was extinguished in a corner of the fireplace.

The flickering embers that he was dismissed drawing attention to the
grotesque wall strangely painted.

Distinguish a person sitting in a large armchair by the fireplace.

All this we saw, huddled in the doorway behind the driver and the
mail.

- Hello! Where is Madeleine? - Yuba-Bill said, the mysterious
loner.

That figure did not speak or move.

The driver approached
her angrily, running on his face the eye of the lantern he had in
his hand.

All we could see the face of a man prematurely aged and
wrinkled, with large eyes that showed the solemnity characteristic
of the owl. The large eyes wandered from Yuba face-Bill to the lantern
and eventually set their sights on that unconscious dazzling object.

Bill
was blind with rage.

- Come on. Are you deaf? Still will not be silent!,
Is not it?

Yuba-Bill shook his shoulder that figure still. 

With
great shock on our part, when Bill took his hand off the venerable
stranger shrink until it was reduced to half its size and become a
mess Report rags.

- Damn my appearance! - Said Bill, retiring spiteful.

Remade
the first impression, the judge went ahead and went back to straighten
the mysterious invertebrates in its original position.

Was instructed
immediately to Bill and his flashlight to be devoted to exploring
the field, it was Clearly, given the impotence of the solo, which
was to have on hand servants, and we all approach the fire to dry
our clothes dripping.

  Oft in galleries of art
    Thou hast seen a knight perchance,
  Eager for the wars to start,
    Well-equipped with shield and lance.

  Him the frolic loves have found,
    Robbed him of his sword and spear,
  And with chains of flowers have bound
    Their unwilling chevalier.

  Held by such sweet hindrances,
    Wreathed with bliss and pain, I stay,
  While my comrades in the press
    Wage the battle of the day.

SONG.

  Night lay upon my eyelids,
    About my lips earth clave;
  With stony heart and forehead
    I lay within my grave.

  How long I cannot reckon,
    I slept in that strait bed;
  I woke and heard distinctly
    A knocking overhead.

  "Wilt thou not rise, my Henry?
    The eternal dawn is here;
  The dead have re-arisen,
    Immortal bliss is near."

  "I cannot rise, my darling,
    I am blinded to the day.
  Mine eyes with tears, thou knowest,
    Have wept themselves away."

  "Oh, I will kiss them, Henry,
    Kiss from thine eyes the night.
  Thou shalt behold the angels
    And the celestial light."

  "I cannot rise, my darling,
    My blood is still outpoured
  Where thou didst wound my heart once
    With sharp and cruel word."

  "I'll lay my hand, dear Henry,
    Upon thy heart again.
  Then shall it cease from bleeding.
    And stilled shall be its pain."

  "I cannot rise, my darling,
    My head is bleeding--see!
  I shot myself, thou knowest,
    When thou wast reft from me."

  "Oh, with my hair, dear Henry,
    I'll staunch the cruel wound,
  And press the blood-stream backward;
    Thou shalt be whole and sound."

  So kind, so sweet she wooed me,
    I could not say her nay;
  I tried to rise and follow,
    And clasp my loving may.

  Then all my wounds burst open,
    From head and breast outbreak
  The gushing blood in torrents--
    And lo, I am awake!

SONG.

  Death comes, and now must I make known
    That which my pride eternally
    Prayed to withhold; for thee, for thee,
  My heart has throbbed for thee alone.

  The coffin waits! within my grave
    They drop me soon, where I shall rest.
    But thou, Marie, shalt beat thy breast,
  And think of me, and weep and rave.

  And thou shalt wring thy hands, my friend.
    Be comforted! it is our fate,
    Our human fate, the good and great
  And fair must have an evil end.

HOMEWARD BOUND.

1823-1824.

  TO
  FREDERIKA VARNHAGEN VON ENSE,

  THE SONGS OF
  HOMEWARD BOUND
  ARE DEDICATED IN JOYFUL HOMAGE BY THE AUTHOR
  HEINRICH HEINE.

HOMEWARD BOUND.

I.

  In my life, too full of shadows,
    Beamed a lovely vision bright.
  Now the lovely vision's vanished,
    I am girt about by night.

  Little children in the darkness
    Feel uneasy fears erelong,
  And, to chase away their terrors,
    They will sing aloud a song.

  I, a foolish child, am singing
    Likewise in the dark apart.
  If my homely lay lack sweetness,
    Yet it cheers my anxious heart.

II.

  I know not what spell is o'er me,
    That I am so sad to day;
  An old myth floats before me--
    I cannot chase it away.

  The cool air darkens, and listen,
    How softly flows the Rhine!
  The mountain peaks still glisten
    Where the evening sunbeams shine.

  The fairest maid sits dreaming
    In radiant beauty there.
  Her gold and her jewels are gleaming.
    She combeth her golden hair.

  With a golden comb she is combing;
    A wondrous song sings she.
  The music quaint in the gleaming,
    Hath a powerful melody.

  It thrills with a passionate yearning
    The boatman below in the night.
  He heeds not the rocky reef's warning,
    He gazes alone on the height.

  I think that the waters swallowed
    The boat and the boatman anon.
  And this, with her singing unhallowed,
    The Lorelei hath done.

III.

  My heart, my heart is heavy,
    Though merrily glows the May.
  Out on the ancient bastion,
    Under the lindens, I stay.

  Below me the calm blue waters
    Of the quiet town-moat shine;
  A boy in his boat rows past me,
    He whistles and drops his line.

  And yonder the cheerful colors,
    And tiny figures, one sees,
  Of people, and villas, and gardens,
    And cattle, and meadows, and trees.

  Young women are bleaching linen;
    They leap in the grass anear.
  The mill-wheel rains showers of diamonds,
    Its far away buzz I hear.

  Above on the gray old tower
    Stands the sentry house of the town,
  And a scarlet-coated fellow
    Goes pacing up and down.

  He toys with his shining musket
    That gleams in the sunset red,
  Presenting and shouldering arms now--
    I wish he would shoot me dead.

IV.

  In tears through the woods I wander.
    The thrush is perched on the bough:
  She springs and sings up yonder--
    "Oh, why so sad art thou?"

  The swallows, thy sisters, are able
    My dear, to answer thee.
  They built clever nests in the gable,
    Where sweetheart's windows be.

V.

  The night is wet and stormy,
    And void of stars the sky;
  'Neath the rustling trees of the forest
    I wander silently.

  There flickers a lonely candle
    In the huntsman's lodge to-night.
  It shall not tempt me thither;
    It burns with a sullen light.

  There sits the blind old granny,
    In the leathern arm-chair tall,
  Like a statue, stiff, uncanny
    And speaketh not at all.

  And to and fro strides, cursing,
    The ranger's red haired son,
  With angry, scornful laughter
    Flings to the wall his gun.

  The beautiful spinner weepeth,
    And moistens with tears her thread.
  At her feet her father's pointer,
    Whimpering, crouches his head.

VI.

  When I met by chance in my travels
    All my sweetheart's family,
  Papa, mamma, little sister
    Most cordially greeted me.

  About my health they inquired;
    Nor even did they fail
  To say I was nowise altered,
    Only a trifle pale.

  I asked after aunts and cousins,
    And many a dull old bore.
  And after the dear little poodle,
    That barked so softly of yore.

  And how was my married sweetheart?
    I asked them soon. They smiled,
  And in friendliest tone made answer
    She was soon to have a child.

  And I lisped congratulations,
    And begged, when they should see,
  To give her the kindest greetings,
    A thousand times for me.

  Burst forth the baby-sister,
    "That dear little dog of mine
  Went mad when he grew bigger,
    And we drowned him in the Rhine."

  The child resembles my sweetheart,
    The same old laugh has she;
  Her eyes are the same ones over,
    That wrought such grief for me.

VII.

  We sat in the fisher's cabin,
    Looking out upon the sea.
  Then came the mists of evening,
    Ascending silently.

  The lights began in the lighthouse
    One after one to burn,
  And on the far horizon
    A ship we could still discern.

  We spake of storm and shipwreck,
    The sailor and how he thrives,
  And how betwixt heaven and ocean,
    And joy and sorrow he strives.

  We spake of distant countries,
    South, North, and everywhere,
  And of the curious people,
    And curious customs there;

  The fragrance and light of the Ganges,
    That giant-trees embower,
  Where a beautiful tranquil people
    Kneel to the lotus flower;

  Of the unclean folk in Lapland,
    Broad-mouthed and flat-headed and small,
  Who cower upon the hearthstone,
    Bake fish, and cackle and squall.

  The maidens listened gravely,
    Then never a word was said,
  The ship we could see no longer;
    It was far too dark o'erhead.

VIII.

  Thou fairest fisher maiden,
    Row thy boat to the land.
  Come here and sit beside me,
    Whispering, hand in hand.

  Lay thy head on my bosom,
    And have no fear of me;
  For carelessly thou trustest
    Daily the savage sea. 

He looked anxiously upward, was quick to fix it and became very red.

- Are you hurt? - Cecilia asked with interest.

- Ca! No, ma'am ... On the contrary ... Wow, for a little break!

And he withdrew more and more confused.

Hallab our youth at that point and that time when men fall in love with a broom. The age of love
for him had been delayed a bit. This usually happens in all in those who tyrannize muscle nerves.
So Miss Belinchón, although nothing linda, suddenly awakened in him a certain sympathy that
is easy to transmute into a passion. And result of that brief interview, Gonzalo happened since
then occasionally ahead without the house of lords Belinchón looking from the corner of eye
the balconies, cared more for the dressing of the suit and the person, went to Mass on Sundays
ten San Andres, where Dona Paula and her children heard.

In the theater used to guide the sly Live looks and occasionally ventured to drop a sombrerazo.
But as did he blushed and looked scared everywhere, shaking that this nascent sense of his soul
was discovered.

Gonzalo Innocent! Long before he would give a full account of this inclination, the village
whole knew. Nothing can be hidden, especially in what touches sex relationships sex, in the
eyes of the gossips dowsers a small town neighborhood. And not only known, but so was given
as a marriage in the more or less distant. Passed months, however, and that is not a step forward.
The testimonies given by Gonzalo his love remained the same. Most of the days were reduced to
happen next eating in front of the house of a wealthy merchant, to go to the casino. Cecilia
used to be sewing behind glass.

His hat, smile, go ahead, then the pool, and even another day. Don Melchor was charged twice
more errands for Don Rosendo, but had the good lucky to find him always in the office. We say
good luck, because Gonzalo trembled before the idea of ​​going up to the house and tripped over
Cecilia.

Had already served twenty years. The idea of ​​becoming an industrial engineer and engaging in something
useful, occasionally returning to his spirit in the midst of lazy life. Comrade which turned
from a military academy, the conversation with a British engineer, the phrase of contempt
in the casino I heard about that had no career, despertábanle Suddenly
the desire.

Finally, one day he told his uncle that if he gave permission was going to England to study something
and see the world.

As Don Melchor nothing could be opposed to this just and laudable purpose, Gonzalo ran a few
days after the houses of relatives and friends, where for years that not set foot, to say goodbye,
and a peaceful and beautiful late spring embarked Watch round the brig bound for Britain.

Do you remember Cecilia? We do not know. In temperaments like our youth, fire of the passions
takes time to turn, although in the end cause havoc.

Three years passed. He finished the race engineer who is short and practice in England and was determined
to visit the main factories in this country and France and Germany. In the studying long lasting
memory of Cecilia asaltábale from time to time, without cause, of course, very lively emotion.
Back in the spring when the blood flows more strongly veins and Mother Nature with the green
of the fields, the vivid colors flowers, the play of light, warm balmy air, and above all, through
their interpreters loyal, birds, invites us to consent in any way that the human species extinguished,
Gonzalo thought of marriage. And if this idea arose in his mind, presentábasele suddenly made flesh
in the first child of the lords of Belinchón: - "Come in, Gonzalo; Dad is waiting. "" Do you
hurt? "- was played again in his ears the words and affectionate tone with which they were
delivered up in their heart a spark of virgin sympathy. The girl was not beautiful, but her eyes
do, especially in her appeal revelábase sex in the air modest and
simple, the tone of voice, exquisite delicacy, entirely female manners.
"I hate to marry her" thought with a sigh; because he judged it impossible
to dare to tell it not to miss any single word love. Until then I
did not know of such passion that the appearance and coarse material,
the fleeting relationships, and sad that women forced by night in
the streets of London and Paris.

  On Tuesday, in the castle,
    My maidens gave a ball.
  The neighboring lords and ladies
    Came riding one and all.

  But I was not invited.
    Amazed they all appeared;
  The gossiping aunts and cousins
    Remarked the fact, and sneered.

XVIII.

  Upon the far horizon
    Like a picture of the mist,
  Appears the towered city
    By the twilight shadows kissed.

  The moist, soft breezes ripple
    Our boat's wake gray and dark,
  With mournful measured cadence
    The boatman rows my bark.

  The sun from clouds outshining,
    Lights up once more the coast.
  The very spot it shows me
    Where she I loved was lost.

XIX.

  All hail to thee, thou fairest
    And most mysterious town!
  That once inclosed my dearest
    Within thy gateways brown.

  Speak out, ye towers and portals!
    My sweetheart, where is she?
  I left her in your keeping;
    Ye should my warders be.

  The towers are not guilty,
    For rooted fast were they.
  When sweetheart, with trunks and luggage,
    So quickly stole away.

  The gates gave willing passage,
    With noiseless bars and locks.
  A door will always open,
    When the adorer knocks.

XX.

  I tread the dear familiar path,
    The old road I have taken;
  I stand before my darling's house,
    Now empty and forsaken.

  Oh far too narrow is the street,
    The roofs seem tottering downward.
  The very pavement burns my feet;
    I hurry faster onward.

XXI.

  Here to her vows I listened,
    I tread the empty halls,
  And where her tear-drops glistened,
    The poisoned serpent crawls.

XXII.

  The quiet night broods over roof-tree and steeple;
    Within this house dwelt my treasure rare.
  'Tis long since I left the town and its people,
    But the house stands still on the self-same square.

  Here stands, too, a man; toward heaven he gazes,
    And he wrings his hands with a wild despair.
  I shudder with awe when his face he raises,
    For the moonlight shows me mine own self there.

  Oh, pale sad creature! my ghost, my double,
    Why dost thou ape my passion and tears,
  That haunted me here with such cruel trouble,
    So many a night in the olden years?

XXIII.

  How can'st thou slumber calmly,
    Whilst I alive remain?
  My olden wrath returneth,
    And then I snap my chain.

  Know'st thou the ancient ballad
    Of that dead lover brave,
  Who rose and dragged his lady
    At midnight to his grave?

  Believe me, I am living;
    And I am stronger far,
  Most pure, most radiant maiden,
    Than all the dead men are.

XXIV.

  The maiden sleeps in her chamber,
    Where the trembling moonbeams glance,
  Without there singeth and ringeth
    The melody of a dance.

  "I will look just once from the window,
    To see who breaks my rest."
  A skeleton fiddles before her,
    And sings like one possessed.

  "To dance with me you promised,
    And you have broken your vow.
  To-night is a ball in the churchyard,
    Come out and dance with me now."

  The music bewitches the maiden;
    Forth from her home doth she go;
  She follows the bony fiddler,
    Who sings as he scrapes his bow.

  He fiddles, and hops and dances,
    And rattles his bones as he plays;
  His skull nods grimly and strangely,
    In the clear moonlight's rays.

XXV.

  I gazed upon her portrait,
    While dark dreams filled my brain,
  And those beloved features
    Began to breathe again.

  I saw upon her lips then
    A wondrous smile arise,
  And as with tears of pity
    Glistened once more her eyes.

  Adown my cheeks in silence,
    The tears came flowing free.
  And oh! I cannot believe it,
    That thou art lost to me!

XXVI.

  I, a most wretched Atlas, the huge world,
  The whole huge world of sorrow I must carry.
  Yea, the unbearable must bear, though meanwhile
  My heart break in my bosom.

  Thou haughty heart, thyself hast willed it thus,
  Thou would'st be happy, infinitely happy,
  Or infinitely wretched, haughty heart!
  And lo! now art thou wretched.

XXVII.

  The years are coming and going,
    Whole races are home to their rest;
  But never ceases the passion
    That burns within my breast.

  Only once more I would see thee,
    And make thee a low salaam,
  And with my dying breath, murmur:
    "I love you still, Madame!"

XXVIII.

  I dreamed that the moon looked sadly down,
    And the stars with a troubled ray;
  I went to my sweetheart's home--the town
    Lies many a league away.

  My longing led me before her door;
    I kissed the stone steps brown,
  That her feet had touched in the days of yore,
    And the trailing hem of her gown.

  The night was long, the night was cold,
    Ice-cold did the stone steps seem.
  In the window her own wan face, behold!
    Illumed by the moon's pale beam.

XXIX.

  What means this lonely tear-drop
    That blurs my troubled sight,
  From olden times returning
    Back to mine eyes to-night?

  Its many glimmering sisters
    Are vanished long ago,
  In the night and the wind they vanished
    With all my joy and my woe.

  And like the mists of evening
    Did those blue stars depart,
  That smiled all joys and sorrows
    Into my trusting heart.

  Alas! my love, too, melted
    Like idle breath one day;
  Oh lingering, lonely tear-drop,
    Thou also fade away!

XXX.

  The pale half-moon of autumn
    Through clouds peers doubtfully.
  Within the lonely churchyard
    The parsonage I see.

  The mother reads in her Bible,
    The son at the light doth gaze;
  One drowsy daughter is nodding,
    While another speaks and says:

  "Ah me! how dreary the days are!
    How dull, and dark, and mean!
  Only when there's a funeral
    Is anything to be seen."

  The mother looks from her Bible:
    "Nay, only four in all
  Have died since thy father was buried
    Without by the churchyard wall."

  Then yawns the eldest daughter,
    "I will starve no longer here;
  I will go to the Count to-morrow,
    He is rich, and he loves me dear."

  The son bursts out a-laughing:
    "At the 'Star' three huntsmen drink deep;
  They are making gold, and they promise
    To give me their secret to keep."

  Toward his lean face, flings the mother
    Her Bible, in wrath and grief.
  "Out! God-forsaken beggar,
    Thou wilt be a common thief!"

  They hear a tap on the window,
    And behold a beckoning hand.
  There in his sable vestments
    They see the dead father stand.

XXXI.

  To-night is wretched weather,
    It snows, and storms, and rains;
  Out in the pitch-black darkness
    I gaze through the window-panes.

  There flickers a lonely candle,
    Slow winding down the street;
  And a beldame, with her lantern,
    Goes hobbling on in the sleet.

  I think 'tis for eggs and butter
    That she braves this weather wild,
  To bake a cake for her daughter,
    Her grown-up ailing child.

  Who lies at home in her arm-chair,
    And sleepily blinks at the light.
  Over her beautiful forehead
    Her golden curls wave bright.

XXXII.

  They think my heart is breaking,
    In sorrow's bitter yoke,
  I too begin to think it,
    As well as other folk.

  Thou large-eyed little darling,
    Do I not always say
  I love thee past all telling--
    Love gnaws my heart away?

  But only in my chamber
    I dare express my pain;
  For always in thy presence
    Quite silent I remain.

  For there were evil angels
    Who sealed my lips so close.
  And oh! from evil angels
    Sprang all my wretched woes.

XXXIII.

  Ah, those pure white lily fingers,
    Once again could I but kiss them,
  Press them close against my heart,
    Melt away in silent weeping!

  Oh, those clearest eyes of violet
    Hover day and night before me,
  And I ponder o'er the meaning
    Of those lovely blue enigmas.

XXXIV.

  "Did she ne'er express compassion
    For thy tender situation?
  Could'st thou never in her glances
    Read thy love's reciprocation?

  "Could'st thou ne'er surprise the spirit
    In her bright eyes unawares?
  Yet thou surely art no donkey,
    Dearest friend, in these affairs!"

XXXV.

  They loved one another, but neither
    Confessed a word thereof.
  They met with coldest glances,
    Though pining away with love.

  At last they parted; their spirits
    Met but in visions rare. Ah-Fe rang
the bell, a servant appeared, glanced at the basket and reluctantly admitted like a pet, annoying but
necessary. Ah-Fe rose silently the stairs, he went into the front room, left the basket and
waited in the doorway.

A woman sitting at the cool window light grayish, with a girl in the skirt, rose with indifference
and went to the visitor. Immediately recognized Ah, Mrs. Faith Galba, but did not change even
one muscle in his face, nor his oblique eyes encouraged the found peacefully with his former mistress.
Obviously, she did not recognize him because he started to count the pieces of clothing she
wore.

But the girl, examining it with curiosity, uttered suddenly a sudden
cry of joy:

- But Mom, if John!

Do not you know? Is the Chinese we had in Fiddletown.

Hurtful eyes Ah-Fe shone for a moment with electric shock.

The girl slapped and grabbed his clothing. The Chinese said:

- Yo, John, Ah-Fe, all is one. I know you. How's it going?

Galba Mrs. dropped in horror Miron clothing and steadily.

As there was for him the affection that stoked the perception of Carolina, could not distinguish
even their peers. At one point recalled the last sentence, and dim suspicion of danger imminent,
asked when he had left his master's house.

- Oh, long time!

I do not like Fiddletown. Tlevelick dislike.

San Flisco like.

Like washing. Like Carolina.

Mrs. pleased Galba the brevity of Ah-Fe, so I did not stop to think about it influence he had
on his good intention and sincerity the imperfect knowledge of the
language Shakespeare.

But he said:

- I request not to tell anyone that I have seen.

And he took his alms.

The Chinese, without looking at him, saw that it was nearly empty,
without scanning the room, noted that it was poorly furnished, and
without removing his gaze from the ceiling, he noticed that the lady
and wore Carolina with the greatest poverty.

However, I must confess that the long fingers pressed to Ah-Fe half a dollar sign that it
handed him.

Then began to search the folds of her blouse through strange contortions
and grimaces.

After a few moments, he pulled from God knows where a child apron, which he placed on the basket,
saying

- Forgetting a laundry room.

And started again for registration.

Finally, success crowned their efforts apparently, took his right
ear a piece of tissue paper rolled patiently.

Carefully unrolled, finally discovered two gold coins of twenty dollars, which handed the lady
of Galba.

- Leave your money on bluló [14] Fiddletown, I find coins. I bring to you shortly.

- But I do not any money left over Boureau, John! - Said presented with sincere amazement. There
must be wrong. Will of another person. Take it, John.

Ah-Fe was troubled for a moment. He took his hand to Madame de Galba proffered money and moved
quickly to pick up their stuff.

- No, no, I did not return. No. Then take me a policeman [15]. I know: God damn thief take forty
dollars, to jail. I do not return. You leave money up bluló Fiddletown. I bring money. I do
not carry cash again.

Lady Clara doubted that in their headlong flight had left the money as he said, but either way
it was, had no right to endanger the safety of this Chinese honored by refusing, so he said:

-
Okay, John. I will stay with him, but you have to see me again.

Lady Clara hesitated. For the first time it happened that a man could wish to see another but her.

-
To me, y. .. Carolina!

The Ah-Fe face brightened. Even uttered a short laugh ventriloquist without moving a only facial
muscle.

Then, throwing the basket on his shoulder, carefully closed the door and slipped quietly up
the stairs. However, the output, a difficulty encountered unexpectedly when you open the door,
and after struggling a moment in the door in vain, looked around as if waiting for who would
take out of trouble. But the Irish barmaid had facilitated the entry, did not deign to appear. He
then spent a mysterious incident and sensitive, I will relate just effortlessly to give an
explanation. On the table the entrance was a silk handkerchief, property without doubt the
maid to whom I referred. While Ah-Fe tempted the bolt with one hand lightly resting his free on the
table. Suddenly, and seemingly spontaneous impulse, the tissue began to slide gradually toward
the hand of Chinese. From the hand of Ah-Fe, went inside his sleeve, slowly and with a slow
movement, like the serpent, and disappeared in some of the folds of his robe. Without showing the
slightest interest in this phenomenon, Ah-Fe yet their repeated attempts over the bolt. Soon after,
the red damask rug, moved perhaps by the same mysterious impulse, slowly gathered it under the
fingers of Ah-Fe and gently undulating disappeared by the same hidden
path.

What other mysteries could have followed? This would not be easy to find, because at that moment
Ah Fe discovered the secret bolt and could open the door, coinciding with the sound of footsteps
could be heard in ladder. The Chinese do not hastened his departure, but slowly loading the
basket closed the door carefully behind him, and into the thick impenetrable fog that hung down
the street.

Reclined in the window, saw the figure of Lady Clara Ah-Fe until he disappeared into the thick fog.
In his plight he felt deep gratitude, and perhaps Lady Clara as always, poetic and sensitive,
attributed to deep emotions and conscience satisfied a good deed, cupping the breast of the Chinese
that it was actually due to the presence the scarf and the mat under your clothing. Then, and
as the night, gray fog became more dense, Galba Mrs. Caroline shook against his chest. Leaving
the talk of the creature, ensued between emotional memories and selfish considerations at once bitter
and dangerous. The sudden appearance of Ah-Fe had re-united with Fiddletown his past life,
the path traveled since those days was useless and sad strewn with thorns, full of thorns and
difficulties and insurmountable obstacles. Nothing strange was therefore Carolina finally ceased
suddenly in the middle of their childish confidences to throw his
arms around the neck of the poor woman, and begged him not to cry
because it was sad.

Heaven preserve me to use a pen, you should always engage early exposure unalterable moral, in
transcribing the specious theories about this time Lady Clara and defended his conduct that sophistical
apologies, illogical deductions, tender apology and weak palliative. In truth, the circumstances
were very cruel, quickly depleted their low flow. Sacramento had the opportunity to experience
the verses, although rising the most sublime emotions of the human heart, and deserve further consideration
of an editor in the pages of a newspaper, are insufficient resources
for the expenses of a family, although does not give more than a lady
and a young girl.

Then turned to the theater but failed completely. Maybe your concept of the passions was different
from that professed Auditorium Sacramento, but the truth is that your beautiful presence,
both charming and effect at close range, it was not for the light of the limelight quite pronounced.
Fans in his cabinet, did not lack, but did not arouse lasting affection in public. Then he
remembered I had contralto voice of no great extent and little cultivated, but very sweet
melodious. Finally achieved a place in a chapel choir, holding it for three months very much
in its pecuniary advantage, and it was said, to the satisfaction of the knights of the past
banks turned their faces towards her during the singing of the last prayer.

Well I have it engraved in memory. A ray of sunlight coming down from the window San Dives choir,
he would gently caressing the thick mass of brown hair beautiful black head and arches his
eyebrows, and dark shadow of the silken lashes his eyes of jet. It was a pleasure to observe
the opening and closing of that finely shaped mouth, quickly showing a string of pearls on her
white little teeth, and blushed to see blood satin cheek: for the lady of Galba was useless admiration
sensitive causing and like most beautiful women, are gathered under the eyes the same as a race horse
under the spur of the rider.

Not long before the troubles to come. I reported all a soprano (more fixie that careless in
matters of sex). Anunciome that the conduct of Mrs. Galba was almost embarrassing, that his
vanity was unbearable, that if considered the rest of the choir as slaves, she, the soprano,
I wanted you to say clearly, that his behavior with low on Easter Sunday had attracted the attention
of all the faithful, and that she had seen the Rev. Cope looked at twice in the office, that
their friends (the soprano), had objected to sing in the choir with a woman had trod the boards,
but this, so it could still happen. But he knew on good authority that Mrs. Galba had escaped
from her husband and the girl's hair sometimes wore red to the choir, not his. The tenor confided
one day behind the organ, the contralto had a means to sustain the final note of each phrase, so
that his voice was longer in the ear of the audience, an act worthy only could be attributed
to a vicious and immoral character, that the tenor of a well-known dependent hardware on weekdays,
and singing on Sunday, was not willing to endure longer. And only under a German small, heavy
voice that was embarrassing, defended the contralto and dared to
say that were jealous of her, by having a good palm heart.

The storm finally festered and these differences were resolved in a lawsuit shameless Lady Clara in
which he used his tongue with such precision arguments and epithets that the soprano burst
into hysterics, and her husband had to remove the wording in the arms of the chorus: all of which
came to the attention of the parishioners by the removal customary single soprano. Lady Clara came
home flushed with triumph, but to get to her room was not conducive
to the blandishments of Carolina, saying that since then they were
beggars, she, her mother, just take your last bite of bread and ended
up breaking into inconsolable weeping.

Tears came to her eyes not so easily as in the past and poetic days,
but when he poured his heart was lacerated.

Again itself to the announcement of the visit of a vestryman, the music committee. Then wiped his
long tab, Atos neck a new tape and went down the hall. He remained there for two hours, that could
lead to talk of not being the good man married with children of any age. Lady Clara returning
to her room, humming and looking in the mirror Carolina scolded. At that had once saved his placement
in the choir of the chapel.

However, it was not much space. Over time, enemy forces received powerful aid in the person of the
wife of the Committee-man.

This lady visited several of parishioners and family of Dr. Cope,
which resulted in a subsequent meeting Music committee decided that
the contralto voice was not suited to the capacity of building and
was invited to present his resignation, which was soon done.

Eight weeks ago I was out of placement and its limited resources
were almost exhausted, when Ah-Fe shed in their hands the unexpected
benefit.

     
     
     III
     

The leaden fog became more intense through the night, shaking and the headlights came to life,
while Madame de Galba, lost in painful memories, was still leaning out his window sadly. Did
not even realize that Carolina had slipped from the room, and its bustling back, taking in hand
the evening paper, still wet.

With the presence the girl became Lady Clara itself and present troubles. In their plight used
the poor woman sifting ads, with the fleeting hope of finding including
proposals for a job (did not know which), which could provide for
their needs, and Carolina had noticed this.

Galba Mrs. mechanically closed the shutters, lit the lights and unfolded the newspaper.

Instinctively, his eye fell on the next paragraph of the telegraph:

Fiddletown,
7 .-- Don Juan Galba, a person "well known in this Instead, died last
night of delirium tremens.

Don Juan was delivered to disordered behavior, caused, it is said,
by disappointment within the family.

"

Lady Clara did not flinch.

Quietly turned the page and glanced at Carolina, which was absorbed in reading a book with pictures.
Lady Clara did not say a word, and for the rest of the night remained
absorbed, contrary to custom, and extremely quiet and thoughtful.

Finally, and at dawn, going where he slept Carolina suddenly fell
on his knees bedside, and taking in their hands the tender head girl
asked:

- Tell me.

Would you like to have another father?

- No - said after thinking for a moment questioned.

     - I mean a father to help her mom and take care of you with love, give
     you beautiful dresses and, finally, when you were older you hiciese
lady.

     
     Carolina turned to her sleepy eyes.
     

- What about you, you would like, mum?

     
     Lady Clara blushed to the ears.
     
     - Sleep - he snapped.
     
     And returned.
     

But after a little while, the girl felt two soft arms that clasped against her breast throbbing
and touched by the heartrending sobs.

- Do not cry, Mom - Caroline
murmured, dreamily recalling the last conversation .-- No I want to
cry.

I think I want a new daddy if you like very much ... a lot ... and me would like very much to
me.

A month later, he married Mrs. Galba, to general surprise. The lucky groom was a certain Robert,
colonel recently elected to represent Calaveras County in Legislative Council. Unable to report
the event in more precise language chosen the Globe Correspondent Sacramento, I will quote some
of his most funny:

"The ruthless rogue Cupid arrows rages these days our gallant rooms: there is a new victim.

"It is the honorable A. Roberto de Calaveras, now a captive beautiful fairy, widow, a priestess
of Thespis time, and even Recently, rival of Santa Cecilia, one of the churches to Fashion
San Francisco, where she enjoyed a regular income. "

The Dutch Flat newscast said the incident with little apprehension feature:

"The new leader of the Democrats of Calaveras, just arrived the legislature with a brand new
project.

This is the Galba name conversion in Ponce, name of Colonel Roberto. We believe they call it a faith
of marriage. Has not one month after the death of Mr. Galba, but is assume that the intrepid
colonel is not afraid of elves bedroom. "

However, saying that the colonel's victory was easily obtained, it would not do justice Lady
Clara.

A shyness own female, added the obstacle of a rival, wealthy businessman Undertakers of Sacramento,
who had captivated Madame de Galba, theater or church, as the professional
habits of ordinary trouser excluded as treatment social and any other
that was not religious or ceremonial.

As this gentleman had a nice fortune favors acquired during a long and terrible epidemic, the
colonel it was somewhat scary for opponents. But fortunately, the undertaker had to practice in
the person of a senator, a colleague of the Colonel, who's gun he killed himself in an affair
of honor, and whether they feared the rivalry by physical considerations, or be calculated
with caution that the colonel could procure clients, it was that withdrew, leaving the field expedient.

The
honeymoon was short, and ended with an unexpected incident. During the honeymoon, entrusted
to a sister of Colonel Robert the care of the child.

Upon returning to the city Mrs. Ponce determined immediately visit
the keeper, to bring up the girl home again.

But her husband for some time showed signs of concern that he struggled
to overcome through repeated use of strong drinks.

Finally he decided, closely abrochose Levite, and after walking the room once or twice unsteadily,
stopped suddenly to his wife with an air of authority.

- Until the
last moment - said the colonel, with stammering lips and majesty affected
increased your inner fear - I have deferred, ie, I have suspended
the revelation of a fact that I comunicándotelo my duty.

All in order not to cloud the sun of our mutual happiness ... Non wither our tender promises
to flower, or darken the sky marital with an explanation unpleasant,
but I must ... God lives!

... Lady ... I do today. The child is not already here!

- What! - Ms. Ponce said in surprise.

Something in the tone of his voice, squinting in the sudden of his pupils, who at one time
alcohol vapors dissipated in the head of colonel and shrugged his
graceful figure.

I'll explain in a nutshell - he said, shaking his hand in conciliatory gesture - I'll explain.
Him .. the ... the ... melancholy event that precipitated our happiness, the mysterious providence
freed you, also freed the girl.

Do you understand? Freed the girl.

At the time of Galba died, the relationship that he joined you disappeared too. The thing is
as clear as the light. Who is the girl? What Galba? This girl is dead and can not belong to the
dead. It is a solemn nonsense to claim that belongs to the dead.

Is it his daughter? No? Who, then? The girl belongs to her mother. Is not it?

- Where is it? - Said Mrs. Ponce concentrated voice, pale face.

- All I'll explain. The girl belongs to her mother. That no doubt. I am a lawyer, legislator and
citizen of the Union. My duty as a lawyer, legislator and a citizen of the Union is to restore the
girl to her grieving mother ... cost what it may.

- But where is he? - Repeated Madame de Ponce, yet still view the face of colonel.
- Well on his way to join his mother, left yesterday on the steamer,
bound for the East and carried by winds favorable to those who, no
doubt waiting with open arms.

Mrs. Ponce remained motionless. The
colonel felt his chest slowly shrank, but apoyose against a chair,
and tried to hold a chivalric gallantry coupled the severity of the
judicial robes.

- Madam, on way to honor their sex, but we must also
consider the feelings, the situation of a mother, and at the same
time, my situation.

The colonel made a pause here and taking out
a white handkerchief carelessly passed it on his chest and then smiled
cynically through their embroidered folds.

Then he added:

- Why
has a slight shadow to cloud the harmony of two souls that moves a
single thought? Certainly, she is beautiful is good, but, after all,
is the daughter of another! Was the girl, Clara, but not everything
went with it. Clara, consider, my dear, I always have to me by your
side!

Clara rose to power.

- You! - Shouted chest with a note that
vibrated the windows .-- You, whom I married to my darling girl will
not starve! You, I called the dog to my side away from me men! You!
...

Could not continue. Rushed into the next room, who was Carolina,
then moved quickly your own bedroom, and suddenly appeared before
him, erect, menacing, with a burning fire in the cheekbones, furrowed
brows and contracted his throat. It seemed that his head Colonel flatten
and depressed her mouth like a snake.

- Roberto! - Said in a hoarse
voice and energetic .-- Hey, Colonel! If you ever want to set your
view in me, bring me before the girl. If you ever want to talk or
approach, you must give it back. Where she is, will I be, do you hear?
Wherever she has gone, I find myself!

And again he walked past angry,
throwing out his arms from the elbows down as well to rid themselves
of imaginary bonds, and, entering her room, shut the door and the
key turned to violence.

  Then he smites the chords with passion,
    All at once begins to strum.
  Ah, like squalling cats his scrapings,
    Toll-de-roll and toodle-dum!

LXXXIV.

  We scarcely had met ere thy voice and thine eye
    Assured me, my darling, that thou wast mine own;
  And had not thy mother stood cruelly nigh,
    I think I should really have kissed thee anon.

  To-morrow again I depart from the town,
    And hasten forth on my weary track,
  From the window my yellow-haired lass peeps down,
    And the friendliest greetings I waft her back.

LXXXV.

  Lo, on the mountains the sunbeams' first kiss!
    The bells of the herd ring afar on the plain,
  My darling, my lambkin, my sun and my bliss,
    Oh, fain would I see thee and greet thee again!

  I gaze on thy windows with curious eyes.
    Farewell, dearest child, I must vanish for thee,
  In vain! for the curtain moves not--there she lies,
    There slumbers she still--and dreams about me?

LXXXVI.

  In Halle, near the market,
    There stand two mighty lions.
  Ah, lion-strength of Halle town,
    How art thou tamed and broken!

  In Halle, near the market,
    There stands a mighty giant,
  He holds a sword and he never moves,
    He is petrified with terror.

  In Halle, near the market,
    A stately church is standing,
  Where the Burschenschaft and the Landsmannschaft
    Have plenty of room to worship.

LXXXVII.

  Dusky summer-eve declineth
    Over wood and verdant meadow,
    Golden moon in azure heavens,
  Wafting fragrance, softly shineth.

  By the brook-side chirps the cricket,
    Something stirs within the water,
    And the wanderer hears a rustling,
  Hears a breathing past the thicket.

  In the streamlet, white and slender,
    All alone the nymph is bathing,
    Beautiful her arms and shoulders
  Shimmer in the moonbeams' splendor.

LXXXVIII.

  Night enfolds these foreign meadows,
    Sick heart, weary limbs caressing.
  Ah, thy light athwart the shadows,
    Moon, is like a quiet blessing!

  Gentle moon, thy mild beams banish
    Gloomy terrors where they hover.
  All my woes dissolve and vanish,
    And mine eyes with dew brim over.

LXXXIX.

  Death is like the balmy night,
    Life is like the sultry day;
    It is dark, and I am sleepy.
  I am weary of the light.

  O'er my couch a tree doth spring
    In its boughs a nightingale
    Sings of love, of naught but love,
  In my dream I hear him sing.

XC.

  "Tell me where's your lovely maiden,
    Whom you sang of erst so well,
  As a flame that through your bosom
    Pierced with rare, enchanted spell."

  Ah, that flame is long extinguished!
    And my heart is cold above.
  And this little book the urn is
    For the ashes of my love.

SONGS TO SERAPHINE.

SONGS TO SERAPHINE.

I.

  In the dreamy wood I wander,
    In the wood at even-tide;
  And thy slender, graceful figure
    Wanders ever by my side.

  Is not this thy white veil floating?
    Is not that thy gentle face?
  Is it but the moonlight breaking
    Through the dark fir-branches' space?

  Can these tears so softly flowing
    Be my very own I hear?
  Or indeed, art thou beside me,
    Weeping, darling, close anear?

II.

  Over all the quiet sea-shore
    Shadowing falls the hour of Hesper;
  Through the clouds the moon is breaking,
    And I hear the billows whisper.

  "Can that man who wanders yonder
    Be a lover or a dunce?
  For he seems so sad and merry,
    Sad and merry both at once."

  But the laughing moon looks downward,
    And she speaks, for she doth know it:
  "Yes, he is both fool and lover,
    And, to cap it all, a poet!"

III.

  Behold! 'tis a foam-white sea-mew
    That flutters there on high.
  Far over the black night-waters
    The moon hangs up in the sky.

  The shark and the roach dart forward
    For breath as the breeze floats by.
  The sea-mew poises and plunges,
    The moon hangs up in the sky.

  Oh, lovely transient spirit,
    How heavy of heart am I!
  Too near to thee is the water,
    The moon hangs up in the sky.

IV.

  In moonlit splendor rests the sea,
    The soft waves ripple along.
  My heart beats low and heavily,
    I think of the ancient song.

  The ancient song that quaintly sings
    Towns lost in olden times;
  And how from the sea's abyss there rings
    The sound of prayers and chimes.

  But pious prayers and chimes, I ween,
    Are offered all in vain.
  For that which once hath buried been
    May never come back again.

V.

  I knew that thou must love me--
    'Twas long ago made clear.
  But thy confession filled me
    With deep and secret fear. Outside will not let betrayed
the slightest hint about his life and background. The most heartless had a face Rafael, with
a profusion of yellow hair: Arturo, the player, had the melancholy air and Hamlet's intellectual
self-absorption: the serene and courageous man just stood five feet tall, with a high-pitched
voice and effeminate and timid ways. The term rogue applied to them was a distinction rather
than a definition. Individually, maybe missing a lot of minor details such as fingers and toes, ears,
etc., but these slight omissions did not detract from their collective strength. The most skilled
among them, had only three fingers on his right hand was the most accurate shooter eyed solemnity.

Such
was the physical appearance of men scattered around the cabin.

Camp was Country Rodrigo a triangular valley between two mountains and a river, and was their only
way a steep path that climbed to the top of a hill in front of the cabin, so enlightened path
by Diana's silver rays.

The patient could have seen it from the rude bed where he lay. Could see wind as a silver ribbon,
and expired at the top confused with clouds. A fire of branches decayed pine encouraged sociability
in the meeting. Slowly reappeared joy Rodrigo Field natural. Cambiáronse discretion bets on
the outcome: Three against Sal would come out with five good thing, in addition, also the child
would live apostose and passed through separate bets on the sex and complexion of the future
host. In the thick of lively controversy, was heard a cry of those who were closest to the door
and everyone's ears pricked up. Mastering the sound of air among the pines waving the murmur of
the swift current of the river and the crackling of the fire, was heard a sharp cry wailing,
a cry that people were not seasoned Field Camp Rodrigo. The leaves stopped moaning, the river
ceased his humming and crackling fire, seemed as if Nature had suspended their beats.

The camp rose as one man.

I do not know who proposed to blow up a barrel of gunpowder, but most sound advice prevailed,
and only remembered firing revolvers in some consideration the state of the mother, which
is due to the rough surgery camp is for any other reason, he ended by now. Not an hour passed
without, as rising for that rugged road that led to the stars come out for good Country Rodrigo, leaving
their shame and sin. I do not think anyone cared such notice unless the fate of the newborn.

- But can he live now? - Asked everyone to Edmund.

His answer was doubtful. The only person's sex Genoveva Sal left in the camp in terms of motherhood,
was an ass. Suscitose brief discussion regarding the qualities of such a nurse, but was put to the
test, less problematic than the old treatment Romulus and Remus,
and apparently so successful.

Having all these gadgets, spent yet another hour. Finally, the door opened and the anxious
crowd of men, who had formed in line, marched orderly the interior of the funeral hut. Immediate
low table bed, on which drew fantastically shaped the mother's body wrapped in a blanket,
had a rough square table. Above this was a box of candles, and inside, wrapped in a flannel
bright red, lay Country newcomer Rodrigo.

Right next to the makeshift crib, had placed a hat soon realized his destiny.

- Gentlemen - Edmund said with a strange mixture of authority and ex officio complacency, -
the gentlemen will have the goodness to enter through the front door,
go around the table and exit through the back door.

Those wishing to contribute something to the orphan will find hand a hat that has become available
for the case.

The first visitor came in with his head covered, but turning a look around it is discovered, and
so unconsciously set an example to others, because in such a community
of nations, good and bad actions are contagious effect.

As the procession marched, were left to hear critical comments, directed
more particularly in his capacity Edmundo Exhibitor and surgeon.

-
What is it?

- The specimen is truly tiny.

- What is red!

- If it
is longer than a gun!

But the most characteristic were the gifts: a snuff box, silver, a
doubloon, a naval gun mounted in silver, a gold, a beautiful lady
handkerchief elaborately embroidered (on the part of Arthur, the player),
a diamond brooch, a ring Diamond also (suggested by the previous gift,
the giver with the observation that saw that pin and improved with
two diamonds), a sling, a bible (donor unknown) a spur of gold, a
silver spoon whose initials were not exactly those of generous donor,
a surgeon's scissors, a lancet, a bank of England, five pounds, and
loose about two hundred dollars in gold and currencies of all ilk.

While The ceremony lasted, Edmundo maintained a silence as absolute as that of the dead had
on your left and a Gravity as indecipherable as the newborn, lying above the table.

A slight incident broke the monotony of this strange procession.

Leon bending curiously on the box of candles, the creature turned, and a movement spasm grabbed the
errant finger of mine and for a moment kept him strong.

Leon placed the stunned face of an idiot, and something like shame strove bewitching his face
tanned by the sun.

- Cursed rascal - he said, removing his finger more tenderness and
care that could be suspect him.

As they go, keeping your finger separate from the other, examining with unusual care.

This test resulted in the same original observation on the angel.

In fact, seemed to rejoice at it again.

- He has quarreled with my finger!

"- Said Alexander Tipton, showing the privileged body.

- Cursed villain!

Had been four when the camp went to lie down. In the cabin, where someone watched, burning lights, Edmund
went to bed that night or not Leon, he drank discretion and happily recounted his adventure in
a manner unchanged, finishing with a rating characteristic of the newborn, this seemed to put safe
from unfair prosecution sensitivity, and Leon was not a man of weakness ... After they had
all gone to bed, He came up to the river, whistling casually. Soared after the canyon, and passed
whistling in front of the cabin still significant oversight. He sat next to a huge stick campeche and
retraced his steps and again went through the cabin.

Once there, slowly lit his pipe, and in a moment of frank resolution
called on the door.

Edmundo opened.

- How are you? - Said Leon, Edmundo looking over
toward the box of candles.

- Perfectly - Edmundo said.

- Is something
wrong?

- Nothing.

It happened a pause, awkward pause.

Edmund continued with the door open, turned León his finger, which
showed Edmundo.

- He fell out with the damn rascal - he said, and
went away.

At dawn the next day, had the rude burial Genoveva Sal could give Campo Rodrigo; later, when his
body had been returned to the bosom of the mountain, was celebrated a formal meeting camp to discuss
what should be done with his son, falling unanimous agreement and enthusiastic adoption. Yet
a lively debate arose about the possibility and how to provide for the extravagance of its maintenance.
Worth entered is that arguments do not participate in any of those fierce personalities that led,
for Generally, the discussions at Camp Rodrigo. The excirujano proposed to send the child to
Red-Dog, forty miles away, where he could lavish feminine care, but unfortunate statement soon
found the most unanimous and fierce opposition.

Undoubtedly, did not want to consider any plan that it involved the idea of ​​separating the newcomer.

More
suspicious, Thomas Rider noted that Red-Dog people could change and endorse another, disbelief
in the honesty of the neighboring camps prevailed Field Rodrigo respect
to all matters.

The proposition to take a nurse at the meeting also found a formidable opposition. It was said,
first, that would not be met a woman who accepted as decent home Rodrigo field, adding he did not need
anyone other species. This indirect uncharitable to the deceased mother, harsh as it seemed,
was the first sign of regeneration the camp. Edmund said nothing, perhaps for reasons of delicacy
would not get into the choice of his possible successor, but when asked, said firmly that
he and Jinny, the ass before alluded to, could compose to raise a little boy. Something original
had an independent and heroic in this plan, we liked to camp, so
it was ratified Edmundo confidence, to be forwarded to Sacramento
for a few diapers.

- Watch out - said the treasurer's hands putting
a sandbag sent gold to could find, - laces, filigree work and lace
... whatever is necessary.

Although it seems a miracle, the creature moved forward, perhaps the vigorous climate of the
mountain undertook to address the shortcomings of the calf. Earth with its udders suckled this
adventurer. In that atmosphere of the hills at the foot of the mountains, at the air live, balsamic
odor, found cordial while purifying and invigorating, which served as food, or a subtle chemistry
that made the donkey's milk to lime and phosphorus and other nutrients elements. Edmundo was
inclined to believe it was the latter, and his thoughtful and careful attention.

- Me and the donkey - he said - we have served as father and mother.

And he added, often turning to bad envelope sketched before him:

- Never again will turn against us.

After thirty days, made himself clear need to name the child, since until then had been known as'
the lamb ',' the child of Edmund "," the cayote ", alluding to its powers vowels, and even
by the tender diminutive of "the damned rascal." However, soon said this was vague and unsatisfactory,
and a new opinion finally prevailed.

Adventurers and players are superstitious: Arturo said one day that the creature had the luck
to Countryside Rodrigo, and indeed the camp had been unlucky in recent
times.

Thus, So this was the name agreed with Tomasín prefix to make it a little more Christian. No
allusion was made to the mother and the father of little concern.

- Best is - said the philosopher Arthur - give back the cards and start calling Luck the game
again.

It was noted, therefore, time for the christening. Judging by the reigning carefree irreverence
Rodrigo Field, you can imagine what came to mean that party. The ringmaster Boston was a certain,
famous Taravilla, and the occasion seemed to pay great opportunity
to show off his jokes and witticisms.

This ingenious buffoon spent two days preparing a parody of ceremonial of the church, with some
hints of local flavor. Conveniently Ensayose choir and was chosen to sponsor Alejandro Tipton.
After the procession reached the grove he with music and flags in front, and the child was left at
the foot of an altar simulated. But suddenly appeared Edmundo, and ahead of the front of the
crowd in anticipation, said:

- It is not my habit to spoil the jokes,
guys - and in this he stood up the man resolutely facing eyes fixed
on him - but I think this is not right.

It is an outrage to the little boy, mixing in jokes that he can not understand. And regarding
the choice of sponsor, said in an authoritative tone: - I know who has more rights I.

A solemn silence followed these words, but is said in honor of all the jokers, the first man who
recognized the justice was the organizer of the event, thus depriving the legitimate enjoyment
of their work.

Benefiting from these advantages, Edmundo continued quickly: - But we are here for a christening
and we will, I baptize you, Thomas Luck, according to the laws of the United States and California,
y. .. in God's name. Amen.

For the first time in the camp uttering God's name that otherwise desecrated. The ceremony
was held just perhaps more laughable than it had been conceived Boston satirical, but, strangely
enough, nobody noticed it. Tomasín was christened as seriously as it would have been under
the vaults of a Christian church, and treated equally and considered.

And so he began the work of regeneration Country Rodrigo, operating in the camp imperceptible change. What
I first experienced the first signs of progress, was the modest home of Tomasín. Carefully cleaned
and bleached, was then palletized with wood, plastered and decorated. The rosewood cradle
of eighty miles brought about a mule, as Edmund said in his own way, was a worthy shot of everything.
Thus, rehabilitation the cabin was a fait accompli. The large crowd that used to hang out at home
Edmund to see how she's Luck, appreciated the change, and in self-defense, the establishment rival,
the spice of Tut, was restored with a mirror and a carpet. Healthy result these developments,
was to promote Field Rodrigo mores more rigid personal hygiene; also Edmundo imposed a kind
of quarantine for those who aspired to the honor of having in arms at La Suerte. Of course this was
a mortification to Leon, who, thanks to neglect of a manly nature and customs of frontier life,
had believed until then The dresses were a second skin, like the snake, only changed when
fell for lack of utility. However, it was so subtle the influence of foreign example, that from
that date onwards appeared regularly with clean shirt and face still shining by contact with
fresh water. Nor were neglected hygiene laws, moral and social. Tommy, who was supposed in constant
need of rest, should not be hampered by noises, so the yelling and howling as innate to camp
residents were not allowed within earshot of the house of Edmund.
The men talked in low voices or smoked with Indian gravity, blasphemy
was tacitly banned from those sacred precincts, and throughout the
camp as popular expletive: damn damn luck or fortune, was dismissed
for taking part in performances annoying.
      Towards evening pale and trembling,
    She peers forth from light clouds,
    And sadly gazes after the departing one,
  And in her anguish fain would call to him, "Come!
    Come! our children are pining for thee!"
      But the scornful sun-god,
      At the mere sight of his spouse,
        Glows in doubly-dyed purple,
          With wrath and grief,
    And implacably he hastens downward
    To the cold waves of his widowed couch.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Thus did evil-whispering tongues
            Bring grief and ruin
        Even upon the immortal gods.
      And the poor gods in heaven above
            Painfully wander
      Disconsolate on their eternal path,
            And cannot die;
      And drag with them
        The chain of their glittering misery.

          But I, the son of man,
    The lowly-born, the death-crowned one,
          I murmur no more.

IV. NIGHT ON THE SHORE.

            Starless and cold is the night,
                The sea yawns;
    And outstretched flat on his paunch, over the sea,
              Lies the uncouth North-wind.
    Secretly with a groaning, stifled voice,
    Like a peevish, crabbed man in a freak of good humor,
              He babbles to the ocean,
    And recounts many a mad tale,
              Stories of murderous giants,
              Quaint old Norwegian Sagas,
  And from time to time, with re-echoing laughter,
                He howls forth
    The conjuration-songs of the Edda,
                With Runic proverbs
  So mysteriously arrogant, so magically powerful,
    That the white children of the sea
    High in the air upspring and rejoice,
              Intoxicated with insolence.

          Meanwhile on the level beach,
            Over the wave-wetted sand,
        Strides a stranger whose heart
          Is still wilder than wind or wave.
                  Where his feet fall
      Sparks are scattered and shells are cracked.
        And he wraps himself closer in his gray mantle,
        And walks rapidly through the windy night,
            Surely guided by a little light,
          That kindly and invitingly beams
            From the lonely fisherman's hut.

          Father and brother are on the sea,
              And quite alone in the hut
              Bides the fisher's daughter,
            The fisher's rarely-beautiful daughter.
              She sits on the hearth,
          And listens to the cosy auspicious hum
              Of the boiling kettle,
          And lays crackling fagots upon the fire.
              And blows thereon,
            Till the flickering red flames
            With a magic charm are reflected
              On her blooming face.
            On her delicate white shoulders
              Which so pathetically outpeep
              From the coarse gray smock,
              And on her little tidy hand
          Which gathers more closely the petticoat
              About her dainty loins.

          But suddenly the door springs wide,
            And in steps the nocturnal stranger
              His eyes rest with confident love
              On the slim, white maiden,
              Who stands trembling before him,
                Like a frightened lily.
            And he flings his mantle to the ground
                And laughs and speaks.
            "Thou see'st my child! I keep my word.
                And I come, and with me, comes
            The olden time when the gods of heaven
              Descended to the daughters of men,
              And embraced the daughters of men,
                  And begot with them
                  A race of sceptre-bearing kings,
              And heroes, the wonder of the world.
            But thou my child, no longer stand amazed
                    At my divinity.
        And I beseech thee, boil me some tea with rum,
                    For it is cold out doors,
                And in such a night-air as this,
              Even we, the eternal gods, must freeze. 

Shortly after being abandoned, sad and sorry the hapless Facia, picked it up again Don Celso
by love of God, and love of God is also not said a word since then that relates even remotely close
to his madness or his misfortune, and his hand was growing Tona girl, ignoring the real reasons
for the sadness and bitterness of her mother, and living in the belief that his father had
been a good man who, like many others, had gone to "the other side" to improve your fortune,
and that she had died without succeeding, after year.

Such is the substance of what he told me Chisco. This could be explained only on arrechucho that
of Facia, and also could not explain, of all kinds, the case even after known the history of the
gray woman, who was interesting, was not to get into unscrupulous inquiries, and I went.

VII

With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon
met the main paths, ravines and gorges, wildlife and flora of the
mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled the "hints"
or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way
small or large is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength
of my legs lacked the same principle to support me on uphill slopes
than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying
instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room
of Don Celso.


        Scarce had I uttered the words,
              When the sea foamed,
        And from the white billows arose
          The reed-crowned head of the sea-god.
              And disdainfully he cried:
          "Have no fear, Poetling!
              Not in the least will I imperil
                Thy poor little ship.
          Neither will I harass thy precious life
              With too considerable oscillations.
          For thou, Poetling, hast never offended me,
            Thou hast not injured a single turret
              On the sacred stronghold of Priam.
          Not a single little lash hast thou singed
            In the eyelid of my son Polyphemus;
      And never hast thou been sagely counselled and protected
            By the goddess of wisdom, Pallas Athene."

                Thus exclaimed Poseidon,
              And plunged again into the sea.
            And, at his coarse sailor-wit,
                Laughed under the water
            Amphitrite, the stout fishwoman,
            And the stupid daughters of Nereus.

VI. DECLARATION.

            Shadowing downward came dusky evening,
              Wildly the breakers rolled,
            I sat alone upon the shore and gazed
              At the white dance of the waves.

            And my bosom heaved with the sea,
          A deep homesickness yearningly seized my heart
                  For thee, oh lovely image,
                Who surround'st me everywhere,
                Who call'st to me everywhere,
                  Everywhere, everywhere,
      In the rushing of the wind, in the dashing of the sea,
                And in the sighing of mine own breast.

          With a slender reed I wrote upon the sand,
                    "Agnes, I love thee!"
          But the wicked waves came overflowing
                    That sweet confession,
                    And blotted it out.

        Oh brittle reed! oh swiftly-scattered sand!
          Oh flowing waves, I trust you no more!
    The heavens grow darker, my heart beats more wildly,
    And with a mighty hand, from the Norwegian woods,
                    I snatch the loftiest fir,
                        And I plunge it
                    Into Etna's glowing gulf;
            And, with such a fire-steeped giant's pen,
            I write on the dusky canopy of heaven,
                    "Agnes, I love thee!"

          Each night hereafter overhead shall blaze
            Those eternal letters of flame.
        And all future generations of our descendants
            Shall joyously read the celestial sign,
                    "Agnes, I love thee!"

VII. NIGHT IN THE CABIN.

  The ocean hath its pearls,
  The heaven hath its stars,
  But oh, my heart, my heart,
  My heart hath its love.

  Great are the sea and the heavens,
  But greater is my heart.
  And fairer than pearls or stars
  Glistens and glows my love,

  Thou little, youthful maiden,
  Come unto my mighty heart.
  My heart, and the sea, and the heavens
  Are melting away with love.

       *       *       *       *       *

  On the azure vault of heaven,
  Where the beauteous stars are shining,
  I am fain to press my lips now,
  Wildly press midst stormy weeping.

  Yonder myriad stars the eyes are
  Of my darling, and they twinkle,
  And they beckon to me kindly
  From the azure vault of heaven.

  Towards the azure vault of heaven,
  Towards the eyes of my belovèd,
  Piously mine arms uplifting,
  Thus I supplicate and worship;

  Lovely eyes, ye lights of heaven,
  Graciously my soul inspire--
  Let me die and let me win you,
  You and all your spacious heavens.

       *       *       *       *       *

  From the eyes of heaven yonder,
  Golden sparks fall trembling downward,
  Through the night. My soul dilateth,
  Filled and overfilled with passion.

  Oh ye eyes of heaven yonder,
  Weep yourselves to death within me!
  Till my spirit overfloweth
  With the radiant starry tear drops.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Cradled by the waves of ocean,
  And by drowsy thoughts and visions,
  Still I lie within the cabin,
  In my berth so dark and narrow. In truth, the house uninvited. Podíasele have called abstinence
inn, as was the lack of everything you need to delight and captivate passenger. Presided, no
doubt, a certain sadness artistic construction. Of excessive dimensions for the ramshackle camp did
not produce the slightest idea of ​​comfort. He also a rough condition, he felt it humidity
of the forest and the smell of pine. Nature violated, but not subject at all, sprouting in Lagrimillas
softwood windows and doors. I do not know why there seemed to be installed, should look like to
have a perpetual picnic. Upon my arrival at the hotel, the usual guests of the house out of a deep
dining room and struggled to remove the application of snuff in many ways, the flavor detestable
just eaten dinner. Some were immediately placed around the fireplace with the legs on the chairs,
and in that position silently resigned themselves to the work daunting a heavy digestion.

In response to my stomach condition, not accepted the invitation to
dinner I did the innkeeper but let me lead the classroom.

It was such a wonderful host bearded man type animal. Crossed my mind a dramatic character. Staring
into the crackling fire, I thought to myself what could be, striving to follow the thread of my
memories to the troubled past, when a timid little woman appeared at the door look, and building
heavily against the frame, he said weakly.

- Husband!

To become the landlord for her, the singular dramatic remember clearly flashed before me in a
couple of verses:

    
    Two souls with but a single thought and keeping the heart beating
...

It was Ingomar and Partenia, his wife.

Neither more nor less.

In mind at once gave the drama a different development:

Ingomar Partenia had brought to the mountain, where he had a hotel for the benefit of Gemany
who came there in no small number.

Partenia was pretty tired and played without servants work of any kind. Had two barbarians, still
young, a boy and a girl, was faded, but still retained his strokes beautiful.

I sat talking to Ingomar, who seemed to be at its center. Contour number anecdotes from Gemany, exhaling
all strong aroma of the desert, and above all kept full harmony with the sinister house, talked
about how some bears died Ingomar terrible whose fur covering his bed how to hunt deer, whose skin
beautifully decorated and embroidered by his wife, dressed it, how
many Indians had died and how he himself was a After about to follow
the same fate.

This, explained the naive innocence that feels so good a barbarian, but a Greek taste had seen
little attic.

Remembering the weary Partenia, I considered that another had been his fate, marry the ancient Greek
drama, at least would always dress decently without him basted wool
suit for meals for an entire year and cooking fats, not been forced
to wait at table with her hair uncombed, nor have his clothes hanging
the two children with dirty fingers, dragging unconscious to the grave.

These

little optimistic musings of induced figured the cake was still in the stomach, so I got up
and told Ingomar show me the room because I wanted to sleep.

Following the terrible barbarian, wielding a candle lit, went up the stairs up towards my room.
Caused me to notice that it was the only one with a single bed, and that had built for couples
who could do up there, but the absence overdue occasion, he had left half furnished. One wall
was lined and the other had large cracks. The wind that blew constantly over Wingdam, penetrated
into the chamber through different openings, the window was left little for their breakup, which
hung giving strange squeaking. It seemed all nasty and dirty. Before leaving Ingomar brought
me a bear fur, and throwing it on a kind of coffin that was in a corner, said abrigaría me back and
said goodbye, wishing me a happy dream.

I was still naked when the light went out in the middle of this operation, I curled up under the
skin of a bear and tried his best to settle down soon falling asleep. However, it was disclosed.
I heard the wind which swept up and down the mountain, waving the melancholy pine branches,
then went home and struggled on all doors and windows of the building. Esparramaban strong air
currents often my hair on pillow with strange howling. Green wood on the walls gave off moisture
that penetrated even the skin through which I had given plantigrade. I felt like Robinson Crusoe
on your tree, after removing the ladder, or as the child who rocks the cradle. After half an hour
of sleep, I was standing in Wingdam me. After the third quarter time I regretted going to bed,
and after an hour of restlessness, I got ready to dress. Animome belief that he had seen fire
in the common room, and she might still burning. I went outside my room and kept in the dark corridor
that resonated with snoring of Gemany and the relentless wind whistle. I slid stairs down, and finally,
entering the room, I saw that the fire was still burning. I pulled a chair, I removed foot and
I was surprised to see Partenia sitting there too, with a creature the haggard face in her
lap.

I told him if it would be indiscreet to ask him what was up yet.

No sleeping on Wednesdays until the arrival of mail, to call her husband
if he passengers who attend.

Is not he tired?

Sometimes, but Abner (the name of the barbarian) who had promised to give him help, the Next spring,
if the business prospered.

How many guests were?

He estimated that would come about forty meals a fixed time and had parish of transients, which
were so numerous that she and her husband could serve, but it worked well.

What job?

Oh! download firewood, carrying the baggage of passengers ...

"For
a long time she was married?

Some nine years and had lost a child and a child and had three others. He was from Illinois,
she Boston. He had been educated in high school girls from Boston,
I knew a little Latin and Greek and mathematics.

When his parents died came alone to Illinois to bring school saw
him, they got married ... a marriage for love ... (Two souls ... etc.)
Later migrated to Arkansas; thence across the plains to California,
always on the edge of civilization.

Did you want maybe ever go home?

I had not disliked because of their children, because he wanted to give them some education. She
had taught them something, but not much because of the excessive occupation. She was convinced
that the child would be, like his father, strong and cheerful: he
feared that the girl seemed rather to it.

I had often thought that I was not raised to be the wife of an innkeeper.

Why?

His forces were not many women had been friends of her husband in Kansas they could do more work, but he
complained, was so good!

(Two souls ... etc.)

Contemplela to light the home, whose reflections frolicked in his face withered and wilted,
but still thin and delicate. Leaning his head and thoughtfully, was in the weary chlorotic arms and
half-naked children, in spite of neglect, dirt and tatters, retained
a remnant of past distinction and it is no wonder that I feel I excited
so she called the "goodness" of her husband.

Encouraged by my sincere curiosity, I said that little by little he had left what I thought be weaknesses
of his early education, but felt he lost his already small force in this new situation. Moving from
city to forest, was hated by women, that attacked as arrogant and presumptuous, all this father
of her husband's unpopularity among mates, and driven in part by his adventurous instincts and
partly by circumstance, led to other lands.

He continued the story of the sad odyssey. In his memory there was another reminder of the way tour
a vast and desolate wilderness, whose uniform stood a small plain cairn, the grave of her son.
For some time, noted that Willie enflaquecía and Abner noted, but men do not understand the creatures,
and also was annoyed traveling with so many people and in such conditions.

It happened that after spending Sweetwater, she was walking one night
beside the chariot and watching the twinkling of the stars, when he
heard a little voice saying, - Mother! - ran into the wagon and saw
that Willie slept restlessly and would not wake; a moment later he
heard the same dull voice repeated: - Mother! - returned to the carriage,
bent the little boy and got his breath on my face and covered it again
and again as he could just starting beside him, asking God to cure
him, and with eyes raised to sky, heard the same voice, and lifeless,
which called for the third time: - Mother! - and then a large and
bright star crossed the room, away from her sisters, and died, and
sensed what had happened and ran to the wagon again, just to shake
on his aching heart a contorted face and cold as marble.

At this point, led the her thin hands and eyes reddened and for some moments silent. A gust
wind blew furiously round the house and gave a violent onslaught
against the door input, while Ingomar the Barbarian, on his bed of
skins of the back, snoring with beatific placidity.

Naturally, the value and power of her husband would always find protection
against the aggressions and outrages of all kinds.

That had to say it clear! When Ingomar was with her, not afraid of anything, but it was very nervous,
and one day gave him a regular fright.

How?

It was in the early days of his stay in California. Had established a house of drinks and spirits
and soft drinks sold for interns. Abner was hospitable, and drank with everybody by the lure of popularity
and business, to Ingomar started to like liquor and ended to take excessive indulgence. One
night I had a lot of people and noise in the canteen, she came to him out of there, but only succeeded
in awakening the coarse gallantry of the rioters semiborrachos, and when they finally got
it to his room and his frightened children, he dropped to the bed as dormant, which made him
believe that the liquor was a narcotic. And she sat beside him throughout the night without
closing his eyes. At dawn he heard footsteps in the corridor, facing the door and saw that
rose quietly latch, as if trying to open the door, shook her husband to wake him, but in vain,
finally, the door gave way little by little above (below had bolted
the gate) as a gradual outward push, and a hand was introduced by
the slit.

Driven by a strange impulse, she rose like a flash, nailing the hand against the door with
their scissors (her only weapon), but the tip was broken and the
attacker escaped by throwing a terrible curse.

Never mentioned it to her husband, for fear of killing someone, but one day the inn was a foreigner,
and by serving coffee, saw him on the back of the hand strange scar.

We continued talking for a while, the wind still blowing, and Ingomar snoring in his bed fur, as echoed
in the street wheels and horseshoes and the neighing of horses.

It was the diligence of the mail. Partenia ran to awaken Ingomar, and almost simultaneously
the gallant conductor appeared to me, calling me by name and invited
me to drink a mysterious bottle she carried.

Quickly watered the horses, he finished his task the driver and leave
of Partenia, I took my place in the diligence.

I was then deeply asleep to dream I visited Partenia and Ingomar,
and was feted with cake at their discretion, until the next morning
I woke up in Sacramento.

I could not say if this was a dream, but never witnessed the drama or hear the sentence referring
to two noble souls ... without thinking of Wingdam caterers.

CALAVERAS MORENO

Just arrived Wingdam diligence.

The courteous and polite conversation and the absence of cigarette
smoke and boot heels in the windows of the carriage, indicated clearly
that it housed a woman in her interior.

And care and composure that displayed the loafers who stood before the windows, as inveterate habit,
arranging hats and ties, also indicated the woman was beautiful, all of which watched from
the bench, Mr. James Melin, smiling philosophical. In truth, it was not to despise the sex,
but he acknowledged in an element misleading, separated man whose pursuit of no less fickle
blandishments of poker [10] in which we can say that Don James Melin was accomplished teacher.

So,
when he placed his narrow boot on the wheel to get off, not even glanced toward the door where
a veil fluttering green but up and down haraganeó neglect and indifference that tone, which is perhaps
the feature of class. His grave clothes and had a quiet continent marked contrast with noisy
feverish restlessness and excitement of the other passengers, and
I'm still convinced that same Master, graduated from Harvard, with
his careless dress and exuberant vitality, her long speeches about
the disorder and barbarism and his mouth full of biscuits and cheese,
represented a poor role alongside this lonely calculator lots, with
his pale face and Greek their ladylike restraint.

The overseer was heard the cry: "The car, gentlemen," and Mr. Melin came to take his place. He was
already standing on the wheel and face the run-level window when his eyes suddenly found themselves
with others who seemed the most beautiful in the world. He got out again quietly addressed
a few words to one of the passengers, and making him a seat change,
quietly took his unparalleled inside, for Don James not tolerate that
his philosophy to hinder the prompt and decisive action is always
appropriate.

I believe that this eruption of James breathed a reservation in the other passengers, particularly
in those who sought to become more pleasing to the fair sex. Immediately one of them lady leaned
veil, and apparently the only reported an epithet of the profession Don James. If Don James heard
and whether the respondent recognized a distinguished lawyer, to which, a few nights before, had won
several thousand dollars, I could not say for sure for his impassive face revealed no hint
of it. His dark eyes, coldly observers turned to indifference, from the gentleman run on forensic
and rested for Finally, on the most enjoyable features of your neighbor. The dose of stoicism
Indian attributed to him as inheritance from their maternal ancestors, Prestol invaluable
services until the grinding wheels spun on the gravel of the river at the ford Scott, and diligence
stopped at the lunch, at the International Hotel. The distinguished jurist and a deputy of the camera
jumped down and stood by the door ready to help the deity in its descent, while Col. Estrella
Siskyon, loaded with his umbrella and hand bag. This multiplicity of gallantry was confusion
and momentary delay. James Melin then quietly opened the door opposite diligence, took her
hand to the lady, with that decision and that a sex uncertain security and insecure knows admire,
and in an instant descendiola to the ground. Yuba-Bill, the coachman, from the sidewalk where
he was, could not suppress a laugh.

- Be careful with that baggage, colonel - said the driver affected application, following with
the view of Col. Estrella, who walked sadly to the rear of the triumphant
procession.

Don James did not stop to eat. His horse was waiting and all its trappings.

Riding quickly climbed the sandy shore and disappeared into the dusty perspective Wingdam Road
and hurried to get away from it a disagreeable idea. The humble people inhabiting the dusty huts
near the road, he covered his eyes with his hands to look at him and followed him with his eyes,
recognizing the man for his horse, preguntábanse what would happen to the Comanche James to
take such rapid career.

However, this interest focused primarily on the horse, which had nothing in particular in
a neighborhood where race mare covered by the French judge Pitt to escape from Calaveras eclipsed
all interest for the term fatal character so worthy and meritorious.

Don Jacobo Realizing sweat that bathed the sides of his gray horse, restrained, finally, its speed,
and introducing the animal on a trail that served as a shortcut, took a trot, leaving the
reins hanging carelessly from his hands. As he advanced the road varies the appearance of the
landscape, becoming more colorful. Descubríanse by between clearings in the groves of pines
and sycamores, some crude culture assays, a strain flowering climbing the door of a hut and a woman
cradled her child under the roses carpeted another rustic hut. A few feet away, Don James reached
some children with bare legs, stirred the waters of the stream beneath the willows, and familiarized
so with them, thanks to its peculiar speech, which were quite daring for subírsele by the horse's
legs to the chair, and had at last that affect an overly expensive fierce and get out leaving
behind some coins when he wanted to get rid of them. Well into and
in dense forests, where there was no trace of room, began to sing,
modulating a tenor voice of singular sweetness and pattus so soft
and tender, that pitirrojos and suckers had stopped to listen to their
notes.
          And alone with his lonely soul,
        There sits a man on the cold strand
        And turns his death-cold glances
    Towards the vast, death-cold vault of heaven,
        And toward the vast, billowy sea.
        On airy sails float forth his sighs;
          And melancholy they return,
        And find the heart close-locked,
        Wherein they fain would anchor.
  And he groans so loud that the white sea-mews,
        Startled out of their sandy nests,
          Flutter circling around him.
      And he laughingly speaks to them thus:

          "Ye black-legged birds,
        With white wings, oversea flutterers!
      With crooked beaks, salt-water bibbers,
          Ye oily seal-flesh devourers!
      Your life is as bitter as your food.
  I, however, the fortunate, taste naught but sweets!
          I taste the fragrance of the rose,
    The moonshine-nourished bride of the nightingale.
          I taste still sweeter sugar-plums,
            Stuffed with whipped cream.
        And the sweetest of all things I taste,
        The sweets of loving and of being loved!

        "She loves me, she loves me, the dear girl!
    Now stands she at home on the balcony of her house,
      And gazes forth in the twilight upon the street,
        And listens and yearns for me,--really!
        Vainly does she glance around, and sigh,
        And sighing she descends to the garden,
    And wanders midst the fragrance and the moonlight,
        And talks to the flowers, and tells them
  How I, her belovèd, am so lovely and so lovable--really!
      Later in her bed, in her sleep, in her dreams,
      Blissfully she hovers about my precious image,
          So that in the morning at breakfast
          Upon the glistening buttered bread,
              She sees my smiling face,
        And she devours it for sheer love--really!"

      Thus boasted and boasted he,
  And meanwhile screamed the sea-mews,
    As with cold, ironical tittering.
      The twilight mists ascended,
  Uncannily forth from lilac clouds
    Peered the greenish-yellow moon.
      Loud roared the billows,
  And deep from the loud roaring sea,
    As plaintive as a whispering monsoon,
      Sounded the song of the Oceanides--
  Of the beautiful, compassionate mermaids,
  Distinct midst them all the lovely voice
      Of the silver-footed spouse of Peleus--
        And they sigh and sing:

  "Oh fool, thou fool, thou boasting fool,
        Tormented with misery!
        Destroyed are all thy hopes,
        The playful children of the heart--
        And ah! thy heart, Niobe-like,
        Is petrified with grief!
        In thy brain falls the night,
    And therein are unsheathed the lightnings of frenzy,
        And thou makest a boast of thy trouble!
          Oh fool, thou fool, thou boasting fool!
        Stiff-necked art thou as thy forefather,
        The lofty Titan, who stole celestial fire
        From the gods, and bestowed it upon man.
        And tortured by eagles chained to the rock,
  Olympus-high he flung defiance, flung defiance and groaned,
        Till we heard it in the depths of the sea,
      And came to him with the song of consolation.
          Oh fool, thou fool, thou boasting fool!
          Thou, however, art more impotent still.
  'Twere more seemly that thou shouldst honor the gods,
        And patiently bear the burden of misery,
        And patiently bear it, long, so long,
        Till Atlas himself would lose patience,
    And cast from his shoulders the ponderous world
              Into eternal night."

            So rang the song of the Oceanides,
          Of the beautiful compassionate mermaids,
            Until louder waves overpowered it.
            Behind the clouds retired the moon,
                    The night yawned,
    And I sat long thereafter in the darkness and wept.

VI. THE GODS OF GREECE.

          Full-blooming moon, in thy radiance,
            Like flowing gold shines the sea.
      With daylight clearness, yet twilight enchantment,
        Thy beams lie over the wide, level beach.
          And in the pure, blue starless heavens,
                Float the white clouds,
              Like colossal images of gods
                  Of gleaming marble.

          No more again! those are no clouds!
          They are themselves--the gods of Hellas,
        Who erst so joyously governed the world,
            But now, supplanted and dead,
        Yonder, like monstrous ghosts, must fare,
            Through the midnight skies.

      Amazed and strangely dazzled, I contemplate
              The ethereal Pantheon. It even seemed that the people had fallen into grace, but it is noteworthy that
which outlined the future was quiet and peaceful. I thought he would soon be good, said I
was already much better, although perhaps soon be strong again at
all.
      He holds in his hand the quenched lightning,
        In his face dwell misfortune and grief;
          But even yet the olden pride. Was ... (And here laughing
stopped to ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation heart ... asystolic
state ...

- In current Castilian - added with a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is
the old machine whose body begins to decompose. It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded
as another major. For some of them had to start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the
machine stops, it is not possible to calculate a date fixed either by me or by those who know
of these things I do: the same can stand inside six months at the
moment.

What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized
by lips I was a very painful effect.

Apart from the blood ties that bound me to Don Celso, personal qualities in him that made
him very sticky to the affection of those who treated him.

Speaking of his illness, he sought other similar and many others, without seeming to them, had,
however, the same dismal outcome: death of the patient, and already this way, we ended the proverbial
"discouraged" by the learned in the "healing art" as collate and compare the resources of his
science with the miserable man's physical condition; only that the boy that, in agreeing with me
on the ineffectiveness of medicine in most cases of hardship, not her hands to her head, or reneged
on the human capacity, nor was any hope that they would go and slowly fixing these problems'
heroes and the martyrs of science "on the contrary, without denying that studying hard was
ascertained something more than what was known in the art, given the current failures, and even
the coming for one thing needful, and which already had him to begin his studies, ie not I noticed
the slightest spark of enthusiasm for his profession, nor the slightest sign of disappointment
to practice playing it their poor resources. Declaróme honestly and fairly so was true, and
with this and a little cunning mine, we were going step by step on
the field I wanted to drive you, or better, knowing it was all I needed
to just met "inside."

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando
Celis, a man of art Celso my uncle, had hoped to make health care
because he already had another son, the eldest, studying law at Valladolid.

  And before your high altars,
  Rebuilt with their extinguished fires,
  Fain would I kneel and pray,
  And supplicating uplift mine arms.

      Always ye ancient gods,
  Even in the battles of mortals,
  Always did ye espouse the cause of the victor.
  But man is more magnanimous than ye,
  And in the battles of the gods, he now takes the part
      Of the gods who have been vanquished.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Thus spake I, and lo, visibly blushed
      Yonder the wan cloud figures,
    And they gazed upon me like the dying,
  Transfigured by sorrow, and suddenly disappeared.
        The moon was concealed
  Behind dark advancing clouds.
      Loud roared the sea.
  And triumphantly came forth in the heavens
          The eternal stars.

VII. THE PHOENIX.

      A bird comes flying out of the West;
        He flies to the Eastward,
    Towards the Eastern garden-home,
    Where spices shed fragrance, and flourish,
    And palms rustle and fountains scatter coolness.
    And in his flight the magic bird sings:

    "She loves him! she loves him! I
say just to procure the indulgence of even the most severe, that my purpose in writing and by gathering
the stories is as modest as innocent. I do not propose to teach anything, or moralize, or prove
thesis, or to solve problems, not blame and customs services. The only thing I set out to write
such stories is distracted or have fun in almost forced my retirement old age and my infirmities
condemn me.

I will not deny me that I had fun writing stories, but I keep it to infer and hence can be sure
that he is also fun to read. The stories, however, aspire not only to entertain. If you are
not amused, criticism can not and should go beyond to the point of calling them annoying, and
instead, if anything fun or entertaining, its purpose and aims are met. They are neither do I want
to be but a mere hobby work, when read with, without the slightest offense against God or neighbor,
to achieve the unemployed entertainment for several hours. Those who want to learn something,
have plenty of books to go. To find religion read the names of Christ, to know moral, read the Guide
sinners and to know philosophy, which is publishing the Father Urraburu
in many and very thick volumes.

This is not intended nor librejo deeply touch the hearts of readers. The muse has inspired me (assuming
also that there has been muse) has not been sad or tragic, but joyful
and happy, as suited to console of my real punishment and not to aggravate
weight with other penalties imaginary.
  Who dwells yonder above the golden stars?"

  The waves murmur their eternal murmur,
  The winds blow, the clouds flow past.
      Cold and indifferent twinkle the stars,
        And a fool awaits an answer.

IX. SEA-SICKNESS.

        The gray afternoon clouds
        Drop lower over the sea,
    Which darkly riseth to meet them,
  And between them both fares the ship.

  Sea-sick I still sit by the mast
  And all by myself indulge in meditation,
  Those world-old ashen-gray meditations,
  Which erst our father Lot entertained,
  When he had enjoyed too much of a good thing,
  And afterward suffered such inconvenience.
  Meanwhile I think also of old stories;
  How pilgrims with the cross on their breast in days of yore,
  On their stormy voyages, devoutly kissed
  The consoling image of the blessed Virgin. 

They had already struck midnight, when the body of Tennessee was placed in the hands of their partner.
When approached the car to the fatal tree, we note that contained a rough oblong box, made
the Apparently sluice tables [7] half-filled pine bark and twigs. Were part the decoration
of the cart willow cuttings and a few dozen long flowers odor. A body once placed in the box,
Tennessee's partner covered it with a cloth tarred, mounted seriously on the narrow front
box, and your feet on the beam, whipped up the ass, slowly moving vehicle, with that dignified
step which, even in circumstances less formal, it is customary to as intelligent quadrupeds.

Middle of curiosity, half in jest, but all in good humor, both of miners continued sides of the truck,
a front, others behind the simple coffin, but is due to the narrowness of way or by some instinctive
momentary feeling of pity, as he advanced the car, support was delayed in pairs, keeping the
pace and taking the appearance of a solemn procession. The fun Polibión James, who had started
out parody a funeral march, moving his fingers on an imaginary flute, declined to pursue it, not
find a favorable reception, perhaps lacking the ability of real humor, you can have fun with your
own grace and humor.

The road crossed the creek funeral Bear, covered at this time of dark and gloomy aspect. The Campeches,
hiding in the reddish soil his feet, manned the path as in single file, and its branches seemed
inclined to take a strange blessing over the coffin progressed slowly.

A beautiful hare, caught in their innate activity, sat on his hind legs, rebullendo the ferns
beside the road, while the procession marched. Squirrels were quick to gain the upper branches to
peek from there in safety, and jays, stretching its wings, flew to the front as outriders, until we
reach suburbs of Sandy-Bar and the solitary cabin of the director of the ceremony.

Seen this place even more pleasant circumstances, there would have been a cheerful place. The
rough and ugly figure and the gross details that distinguish mining constructions California,
and moreover, a little picturesque location, all gathered there to sadness debris. A few meters
from the hut, lay a rough fence, in the short days of marital bliss Tennessee's partner, had
served as a garden, but in Back then, enjoyed a lush ferns and herbs of all kinds. As we approach
the fence, we were surprised to see that what we had taken for A recent assay, was only clearing
surrounding a newly opened tomb. The wagon and stood in front of the enclosure, and Tennessee's
partner refusing offers of help, with the same air of confidence he had shown in all, took the box
and deposited, without help from anyone in the shallow grave. With nails sticking after serving
table cover, and getting on the mound that stood beside the grave, He uncovered and slowly wiped
his face with his handkerchief. Everyone understood that these were the preliminary of speech,
and spread on tree trunks and rocks waiting situation.

      I wept with fervor of piety, and at last
      The portals of salvation were opened to me,
      Where the twelve Apostles, the holy wine-butts,
      Preach in silence and yet so intelligibly
                    Unto all people.

                    Those are men!
      Without, unseemly in their wooden garb,
      Within, they are more beautiful and brilliant
      Than all the haughty Levites of the Temple,
      And the guards and courtiers of Herod,
      Decked with gold and arrayed in purple.
              But I have always averred
      That not amidst quite common folk--
              No, in the very best society,
      Perpetually abides the King of Heaven.

          Hallelujah! How lovely around me
            Wave the palms of Beth-El!
      How fragrant are the myrrh-trees of Hebron!
      How the Jordan rustles and reels with joy!
      And my immortal soul also reels,
      And I reel with her, and, reeling,
      The worthy host of the town-cellar of Bremen
      Leads me up-stairs into the light of day.

    Thou worthy host of the town-cellar of Bremen,
        Seest thou on the roofs of the houses,
    Sit the angels, and they are drunk and they sing.
            The glowing sun up yonder
          Is naught but a red drunken nose.
        The nose of the spirit of the universe,
  And around the red nose of the spirit of the universe
            Reels the whole tipsy world. A
        TRAGIC DRAMA.

Not all flowers are fresh and beautiful, also there are withered and ugly. Do not blame me, therefore,
presumably, if a figure of speech valiéndome call my poor flowers
withered ingenuity to the stories that follow.

              Red and blue flowers!
      The surly reaper rejects you as useless. And if they are flowers and add that no connection each other and
I the get together with them haphazardly to form a cluster or bundle. Sea this brief prologue
tape or tie the tie, so that each of flowers will not be by his side.


              But the rustic maiden,
              The wearer of garlands,
            Honors you, and plucks you,
          And adorns with you her fair locks. It's natural - continued
quickly, with a voice that trembled strangely between pride and humility - it is natural that
the love, Madam, for his father, when I met him, was a gentleman, and that the child is forced
Remember me sooner or later ... so I will not mourn for it.