"To say the truth, Belle, I could have been, if he had been in circumstances to marry. But,
you see, I am one of those to whom the luxuries are essential. I never could rub and scrub
and work; in fact, I had rather not live at all than live poor; and Harry is poor, and he always
will be poor. It's a pity, too, poor fellow, for he's nice. Well, he is off in India! I know
he will be tragical and gloomy, and all that," she said; and then the soft child-face smiled
to itself in the glass,--such a pretty little innocent smile!

All this while, John sat up with his heart beating very fast, writing all about his engagement
to his sister, and, up to this point, his nearest, dearest, most confidential friend. It is
almost too bad to copy the letter of a shy man who finds himself in love for the first time
in his life; but we venture to make an extract:--

"It is not her beauty merely that drew me to her, though she is the most beautiful human being
I ever saw: it is the exquisite feminine softness and delicacy of her character, that sympathetic
pliability by which she adapts herself to every varying feeling of the heart. At the miss set
for the elopement the Count and Figaro appear. A cooperation is easily effected, a notary is
at manus, and they are marital just as Bartolo makes his appearance with officers to arrest the
Count. Mutual explanations occur, however, and all bitthead happily. She will love us both; she will gradually come into all our
ways and opinions, and be insensibly formed by us into a noble womanhood. Her extreme beauty,
and the great admiration that has always followed her, have exposed her to many temptations,
and caused most ungenerous things to be said of her.

"Hitherto she has lived only in the fashionable world; and her literary and domestic education,
as she herself is sensible, has been somewhat neglected.

"But she longs to retire from all this; she is sick of fashionable folly, and will come to
us to be all our own. Gradually the charming circle of cultivated families which form our society
will elevate her taste, and form her mind.

"Love is woman's inspiration, and love will lead her to all that is noble and good. My dear
sister, think not that any new ties are going to make you any less to me, or touch your place
in my heart. I have already spoken of you to Lillie, and she longs to know you. You must be
to her what you have always been to me,--guide, philosopher, and friend.

"I am sure I never felt better impulses, more humble, more thankful, more religious, than I
do now. That the happiness of this soft, gentle, fragile creature is to be henceforth in my
hands is to me a solemn and inspiring thought. What man is worthy of a refined, delicate woman?
I feel my unworthiness of her every hour; but, so help me God, I shall try to be all to her
that a husband should; and you, my sister, I know, will help me to make happy the future which
she so confidingly trusts to me.

"Believe me, dear sister, I never was so much your affectionate brother,

"John SEYMOUR.

"P.S.--I forgot to tell you that Lillie remarkably resembles the ivory miniature of our dear
sainted mother. She was very much affected when I told her of it. The act at night, in a street
near the Church of St. John Lateran, and discovers Orsini, a patrician, accompanied by the
force on nobles, attempting to abduct Irene, the insult of rienzi,
a notary.

When he becomes papal of the sister offered his sister, he takes counsel with a Voice Raimondo,
and her follow to the people in resistance to the outrages of the nobles. A quarrel ensues. People,
the son of Colonna, who is in Adriano with Irene, suddenly appears
and rushes to her defence.

Just embarrassing patricians and plebeians are attracted by the tumult,
among latter, Rienzi.

The husky is interrupted by the plot of Colonna, the leader of another
faction, who discourage the girl. Worship is placed in an position,--
his relationship to the Colonnas urging him to join rienzi nobles,
and his love for Orsini impelling him with finally stronger crowd
to make common cause with what the Adriano.

He still decides to agree nothing rienzi, gradually as the trumpets are plotted calling the people
to arms and Rienzi in full armor makes his appearance to a lead them said. The struggle is a other
one. The nobles are overcome, and in the second act they appear at a Capitol to acknowledge their
message to Rienzi: but Adriano, who has been among them, demands
the is that they have heard to kill him.

Aware dances, processions, and gladiatorial combats follow, and in
the midst of which Irene rushes at a and strikes at it with his dagger.



This present Seymour mansion was founded on the spot where the house of the first minister
was built by the active hands of his parishioners; and, from generation to generation, order,
piety, education, and high respectability had been the tradition of the place.

The reader will come in with us, on this bright June morning, through the grassy front yard,
which has only the usual New-England fault of being too densely shaded. The house we enter
has a wide, cool hall running through its centre and out into a back garden, now all aglow
with every beauty of June. The broad alleys of the garden showed bright stores of all sorts
of good old-fashioned flowers, well tended and kept. Clumps of stately hollyhocks and scarlet
peonies; roses of every hue, purple, blush, gold-color, and white, were showering down their
leaves on the grassy turf; honeysuckles climbed and clambered over arbors; and great, stately
tufts of virgin-white lilies exalted their majestic heads in saintly magnificence. The garden
was Miss Grace Seymour's delight and pride. Every root in it was fragrant with the invisible
blossoms of memory,--memories of the mother who loved and planted and watched them before her,
and the grandmother who had cared for them before that. The spirit of these charming old-fashioned
gardens is the spirit of family love; and, if ever blessed souls from their better home feel
drawn back to any thing on earth, we think it must be to their flower-garden.

Miss Grace had been up early, and now, with her garden hat on, and scissors in hand, was coming
up the steps with her white apron full of roses, white lilies, meadow-sweets, and honeysuckle,
for the parlor-vases, when the servant handed her a letter.

"From John," she said, "good fellow;" and then she laid it on the mantel-shelf of the parlor,
while she busied herself in arranging her flowers.

"I must get these into water, or they will wilt," she said.

The large parlor was like many that you and I have seen in a certain respectable class of houses,--wide,
cool, shady, and with a mellow old tone to every thing in its furniture and belongings. It
was a parlor of the past, and not of to-day, yet exquisitely neat and well-kept. The Turkey
carpet was faded: it had been part of the wedding furnishing of Grace's mother, years ago.
The great, wide, motherly, chintz-covered sofa, which filled a recess commanding the window,
was as different as possible from any smart modern article of the name. The heavy, claw-footed,
mahogany chairs; the tall clock that ticked in one corner; the footstools and ottomans in faded
embroidery,--all spoke of days past. So did the portraits on the wall. One was of a fair, rosy
young girl, in a white gown, with powdered hair dressed high over a cushion. It was the portrait
of Grace's mother. Another was that of a minister in gown and bands, with black-silk gloved
hands holding up conspicuously a large Bible. This was the remote ancestor, the minister. Then
there was the picture of John's father, placed lovingly where the eyes seemed always to be
following the slight, white-robed figure of the young wife. The walls were papered with an
old-fashioned paper of a peculiar pattern, bought in France seventy-five years before. The
vases of India-china that adorned the mantels, the framed engravings of architecture and pictures
in Rome, all were memorials of the taste of those long passed away. Yet the room had a fresh,
sweet, sociable air. The roses and honeysuckles looked in at the windows; the table covered
with books and magazines, and the familiar work-basket of Miss Grace, with its work, gave a
sort of impression of modern family household life. It was a wide, open, hospitable, generous-minded
room, that seemed to breathe a fragrance of invitation and general sociability; it was a room
full of associations and memories, and its daily arrangement and ornamentation made one of
the pleasant tasks of Miss Grace's life.

She spread down a newspaper on the large, square centre-table, and, emptying her apronful of
flowers upon it, took her vases from the shelf, and with her scissors sat down to the task
of clipping and arranging them.

Just then Letitia Ferguson came across the garden, and entered the back door after her, with
a knot of choice roses in her hand, and a plate of seed-cakes covered with a hem-stitched napkin.
The Fergusons and the Seymours occupied adjoining houses, and were on footing of the most perfect
undress intimacy. They crossed each other's gardens, and came without knocking into each other's
doors twenty times a day, apropos to any bit of chit-chat that they might have, a question
to ask, a passage in a book to show, a household receipt that they had been trying. Letitia
was the most intimate and confidential friend of Grace. In fact, the whole Ferguson family
seemed like another portion of the Seymour family. There were two daughters, of whom Letitia
was the eldest. Then came the younger Rose, a nice, charming, well-informed, good girl, always
cheerful and chatty, and with a decent share of ability at talking lively nonsense. The brothers
of the family, like the young men of New-England country towns generally, were off in the world
seeking their fortunes. Old Judge Ferguson was a gentleman of the old school,--formal, stately,
polite, always complimentary to ladies, and with a pleasant little budget of old-gentlemanly
hobbies and prejudices, which it afforded him the greatest pleasure to air in the society of
his friends. Old Mrs. Ferguson was a pattern of motherliness, with her quaint, old-fashioned
dress, her elaborate caps, her daily and minute inquiries after the health of all her acquaintances,
and the tender pityingness of her nature for every thing that lived and breathed in this world
of sin and sorrow.

Letitia and Grace, as two older sisters of families, had a peculiar intimacy, and discussed
every thing together, from the mode of clearing jelly up to the profoundest problems of science
and morals. They were both charming, well-mannered, well-educated, well-read women, and trusted
each other to the uttermost with every thought and feeling and purpose of their hearts.

As we have said, Letitia Ferguson came in at the back door without knocking, and, coming softly
behind Miss Grace, laid down her bunch of roses among the flowers, and then set down her plate
of seed-cakes.

Then she said, "I brought you some specimens of my Souvenir de Malmaison bush, and my first
trial of your receipt."

"Oh, thanks!" said Miss Grace: "how charming those roses are! It was too bad to spoil your
bush, though."

"No: it does it good to cut them; it will flower all the more. But try one of those cakes,--are
they right?"

"Excellent! you have hit it exactly," said Grace; "exactly the right proportion of seeds. I
was hurrying," she added, "to get these flowers in water, because a letter from John is waiting
to be read."

"A letter! How nice!" said Miss Letitia, looking towards the shelf. "John is as faithful in
writing as if he were your lover."

"He is the best lover a woman can have," said Grace, as she busily sorted and arranged the
flowers. "For my part, I ask nothing better than John."

"Let me arrange for you, while you read your letter," said Letitia, taking the flowers from
her friend's hands.

Miss Grace took down the letter from the mantelpiece, opened, and began to read it. Miss Letitia,
meanwhile, watched her face, as we often carelessly watch the face of a person reading a letter.

Miss Grace was not technically handsome, but she had an interesting, kindly, sincere face;
and her friend saw gradually a dark cloud rising over it, as one watches a shadow on a field.

When she had finished the letter, with a sudden movement she laid her head forward on the table
among the flowers, and covered her face with her hands. She seemed not to remember that any
one was present.

Letitia came up to her, and, laying her hand gently on hers, said, "What is it, dear?" 

The inutile work was finished in less than three weeks.

The original overture was lost in some manner, and that to "Aureliano"
substituted.

Its original title was "Almaviva, ossia l'whole precauzione," of distinguish
it be from Paisiello's "Barber of Seville." He is completely infatuated by her."

"How very sudden!" said Miss Letitia. "Who could have expected it? Lillie Ellis is so entirely
out of the line of any of the women he has ever known."

"That's precisely what's the matter," said Miss Grace. "John knows nothing of any but good,
noble women; and he thinks he sees all this in Lillie Ellis."

"There's nothing to her but her wonderful complexion," said Miss Ferguson, "and her pretty
little coaxing ways; but she is the most utterly selfish, heartless little creature that ever
breathed."

"Well, she is to be John's wife," said Miss Grace, sweeping the remainder of the flowers into
her apron; "and so ends my life with John. Lord Peterborough us, on being asked whether the satire
was not written by Montague in conjunction with Prior, answered, "Yes; as if I, seated in Place.
Cheselden's chaise into horse, should say, Lord! how finely i draw
this chaise!"

Now, Miss Grace was not one of the crying sort, and so this emotion went to her friend's heart.
Miss Letitia went up and put her arms round her.

"Come, Gracie," she said, "you must not take it so seriously. John is a noble, manly fellow.
He loves you, and he will always be master of his own house."

"No, he won't,--no married man ever is," said Miss Grace, wiping her eyes, and sitting up very
straight. "No man, that is a gentleman, is ever master in his own house. He has only such rights
there as his wife chooses to give him; and this woman won't like me, I'm sure."

"Perhaps she will," said Letitia, in a faltering voice.

"No, she won't; because I have no faculty for lying, or playing the hypocrite in any way, and
I shan't approve of her. These soft, slippery, pretty little fibbing women have always been
my abomination."

"Oh, my dear Grace!" said Miss Ferguson, "do let us make the best of it."

"I did think," said Miss Grace, wiping her eyes, "that John had some sense. I wasn't such a
fool, nor so selfish, as to want him always to live for me. I wanted him to marry; and if he
had got engaged to your Rose, for instance ... O Letitia! I always did so hope that he and
Rose would like each other."

