Here a whistle from the coffee-room window startled them. Even so rude a being as a man is
sometimes mindful of his dog. In an instant both concierge and stranger were on their feet,
the concierge ready for whatever would turn up, the stranger trying to locate the sound and
his master. Another whistle, and he was off, bounding down the road, looking wistfully at the
windows, and rushing back bewildered. Suddenly it came to him that the short cut to his master
lay through the archway.

Just here there was a change in the manner of the concierge. It was not gruff, nor savage,
nor severe,--it was only firm and decided. With his tail still wagging, showing his kindness
and willingness to oblige, but with spine rigid and hair bristling, he explained clearly and
succinctly to that strange dog how absolutely impossible it would be for him to permit his
crossing the archway. Up went the spine of the stranger, and out went his tail like a bar of
steel, the feet braced, and the whole body taut as standing rigging. But the concierge kept
on wagging his tail, though his hair still bristled,--saying as plainly as he could:--

"My dear sir, do not blame me. I assure you that nothing in the world would give me more pleasure
than to throw the whole house open to you; but consider for a moment. My master puts me here
to see that nobody enters the inn but those whom he wishes to see, and that all other live-stock,
especially dogs, shall on no account be admitted." (This with head bent on one side and neck
arched.) "Now, while I have the most distinguished consideration for your dogship" (tail wagging
violently), "and would gladly oblige you, you must see that my honor is at stake" (spine more
rigid), "and I feel assured that under the circumstances you will not press a request (low
growl) which you must know would be impossible for me to grant."

And the strange dog, gentleman as he was, expressed himself as entirely satisfied with the
very free and generous explanation. With tail wagging more violently than ever, he assured
the concierge that he understood his position exactly. Then wheeling suddenly, he bounded down
the road. Though convinced, he was still anxious.

Then the concierge gravely settled himself once more on his haunches in his customary place,
his eyes commanding the view up and down and across the road, where I sat still tilted back
in my chair waiting for my cutlets, his whole body at rest, his face expressive of that quiet
content which comes from a sense of duties performed and honor untarnished.

But the stranger had duties, too; he must answer the whistle, and find his master. His search
down the road being fruitless, he rushed back to the concierge, looking up into his face, his
eyes restless and anxious.

"If it were inconsistent with his honor to permit him to cross the threshold, was there any
other way he could get into the coffee-room?" This last with a low whine of uneasiness, and
a toss of head.

"Yes, certainly," jumping to his feet, "why had he not mentioned it before? It would give him
very great pleasure to show him the way to the side entrance." And the St. Bernard, everything
wagging now, walked with the stranger to the corner, stopping stock still to point with his
nose to the closed door.

Then the stranger bounded down with a scurry and plunge, nervously edging up to the door, wagging
his tail, and with a low, anxious whine springing one side and another, his paws now on the
sill, his nose at the crack, until the door was finally opened, and he dashed inside.

What happened in the coffee-room I do not know, for I could not see. I am willing, however,
to wager that a dog of his loyalty, dignity, and sense of duty did just what a dog of quality
would do. No awkward springing at his master's chest with his dusty paws leaving marks on his
vest front; no rushing around chairs and tables in mad joy at being let in, alarming waitresses
and children. Only a low whine and gurgle of delight, a rubbing of his cold nose against his
master's hand, a low, earnest look up into his face, so frank, so trustful, a look that carried
no reproach for being shut out, and only gratitude for being let in.

A moment more, and he was outside again, head in air, looking for his friend. Then a dash,
and he was around by the archway, licking the concierge in the face, biting his neck, rubbing
his nose under his forelegs, saying over and over again how deeply he thanked him,--how glad
and proud he was of his acquaintance, and how delighted he would be if he came down to Vienna,
or Milan, or wherever he did come from, so that he might return his courtesies in some way,
and make his stay pleasant.

Just here the landlord called out that the cutlets and coffee were ready, and, man-like, I
went in to breakfast.

BROCKWAY'S HULK

I first saw Brockway's towards the close of a cold October day. Since early morning I had been
tramping and sketching about the northern suburbs of New York, and it was late in the afternoon
when I reached the edge of that high ground overlooking the two rivers. I could see through
an opening in the woods the outline of the great aqueduct,--a huge stone centipede stepping
across on its sturdy legs; the broad Hudson, with its sheer walls of rock, and the busy Harlem
crowded with boats and braced with bridges. A raw wind was blowing, and a gray mist blurred
the edges of the Palisades where they cut against the sky.

As the darkness fell the wind increased, and scattered drops of rain, piloting the coming storm,
warned me to seek a shelter. Shouldering my trap and hurrying forward, I descended the hill,
followed the road to the East River, and, finding no boat, walked along the shore hoping to
hail a fisherman or some belated oarsman, and reach the station opposite.

My search led me around a secluded cove edged with white sand and yellow marsh grass, ending
in a low, jutting point. Here I came upon a curious sort of dwelling,--half house, half boat.
It might have passed for an abandoned barge, or wharf boat, too rotten to float and too worthless
to break up,--the relic and record of some by-gone tide of phenomenal height. When I approached
nearer it proved to be an old-fashioned canal-boat, sunk to the water line in the grass, its
deck covered by a low-hipped roof. Midway its length was cut a small door, opening upon a short
staging or portico which supported one end of a narrow, rambling bridge leading to the shore.
This bridge was built of driftwood propped up on shad poles. Over the door itself flapped a
scrap of a tattered sail which served as an awning. Some pots of belated flowers bloomed on
the sills of the ill-shaped windows, and a wind-beaten vine, rooted in a fish basket, crowded
into the door, as if to escape the coming winter. Nothing could have been more dilapidated
or more picturesque.

The only outward sign of life about the dwelling was a curl of blue smoke. Without this signal
of good cheer it had a menacing look, as it lay in its bed of mud glaring at me from under
its eaves of eyebrows, shading eyes of windows a-glint in the fading light.

I crossed the small beach strewn with oyster shells, ascended the tottering bridge, and knocked.
The door was opened by a gray-bearded old man in a rough jacket. He was bare-footed, his trousers
rolled up above his ankles, like a boy's.

"Can you help me across the river?" I asked.

"Yes, perhaps I can. Come into the Hulk," he replied, holding the door against the gusts of wind.

The room was small and low, with doors leading into two others. In its centre, before a square
stove, stood a young child cooking the evening meal. I saw no other inmates.

"You are wet," said the old man, laying his hand on my shoulder, feeling me over carefully;
"come nearer the stove."

The child brought a chair. As I dropped into it I caught his eye fixed upon me intently.

"What are you?" he said abruptly, noting my glance,--"a peddler." He said this standing over
me,--his arms akimbo, his bare feet spread apart.

"No, a painter," I answered smiling; my trap had evidently misled him.

He mused a little, rubbing his beard with his thumb and forefinger; then, making a mental inventory
of my exterior, beginning with my slouch hat and taking in each article down to my tramping
shoes, he said slowly,--

"And poor?"

"Yes, we all are." And I laughed; his manner made me a little uncomfortable.

My reply, however, seemed to reassure him. His features relaxed and a more kindly expression
overspread his countenance.

"And now, what are you?" I asked, offering him a cigarette as I spoke.

"Me? Nothing," he replied curtly, refusing it with a wave of his hand. "Only Brockway,--just
Brockway,--that's all,--just Brockway." He kept repeating this in an abstracted way, as if
the remark was addressed to himself, the words dying in his throat.

Then he moved to the door, took down an oilskin from a peg, and saying that he would get the
boat ready, went out into the night, shutting the door behind him, his bare feet flapping like
wet fish as he walked.

I was not sorry I was going away so soon. The man and the place seemed uncanny.

I roused myself and crossed the room, attracted by the contents of a cupboard filled with cheap
pottery and some bits of fine old English lustre. Then I examined the furniture of the curious
interior,--the high-backed chairs, mahogany table,--one leg replaced with pine,--the hair sofa
and tall clock in the corner by the door. They were all old and once costly, and all of a pattern
of by-gone days. Everything was scrupulously clean, even to the strip of unbleached muslin
hung at the small windows.

The door blew in with a whirl of wind, and Brockway entered shaking the wet from his sou'wester.

"You must wait," he said. "Dan the brakeman has taken my boat to the Railroad Dock. He will
return in an hour. If you are hungry, you can sup with us. Emily, set a place for the painter."

His manner was more frank. He seemed less uncanny too. Perhaps he had been in some special
ill humor when I entered. Perhaps, too, he had been suspicious of me; I had not thought of
that before.

The child spread the cloth and busied herself with the dishes and plates. She was about twelve
years old, slightly built and neatly dressed. Her eyes were singularly large and expressive.
The light brown hair about her shoulders held a tinge of gold when the lamplight shone upon it.

Despite the evident poverty of the interior, a certain air of refinement pervaded everything.
Even the old man's bare feet did not detract from it. These, by the way, he never referred
to; it was evidently a habit with him. I felt this refinement not only in the relics of what
seemed to denote better days, but in the arrangement of the table, the placing of the tea tray
and the providing of a separate pot for the hot water. Their voices, too, were low, characteristic
of people who live alone and in peace,--especially the old man's.

Brockway resumed his seat and continued talking, asking about the city as if it were a thousand
miles away instead of being almost at his door; of the artists,--their mode of life, their
successes, etc. As he talked his eye brightened and his manner became more gentle. It was only
his outside that seemed to belong to an old boatman, roughened by the open air, with hands
hard and brown. Yet these were well shaped, with tapering fingers. One bore a gold ring curiously
marked and worn to a thread.

I asked about the fishing, hoping the subject would lead him to talk of his own life, and so
solve the doubt in my mind as to his class and antecedents. His replies showed his thorough
knowledge of his trade. He deplored the scarcity of bass, now that the steamboats and factories
fouled the river; the decrease of the oysters, of which he had several beds, all being injured
by the same cause. Then he broke out against the encroachments of the real estate pirates,
as he called them, staking out lots behind the Hulk and destroying his privacy.

"But you own the marsh?" I asked carelessly. I saw instantly in his face the change working
in his mind. He looked at me searchingly, almost fiercely, and said, weighing each word,--

"Not one foot, young man,--do you hear?--not one foot! Own nothing but what you see. But this
hulk is mine,--mine from the mud to the ridgepole, with every rotten timber in it."

The outburst was so sudden that I rose from my chair. For a moment he seemed consumed with
an inward rage,--not directed to me in any way,--more as if the memory of some past wrong had
angered him.

Here the child, with an anxious face, rose quickly from her seat by the window, and laid her
hand on his.

The old man looked into her face for a moment, and then, as if her touch had softened him,
rose courteously, took her arm, seated her at the table and then me. In a moment more he had
regained his gentle manner.

The meal was a frugal one, broiled fish and potatoes, a loaf of bread, and stewed apples served
in a cut glass dish with broken handles.

The meal over, the girl replaced the cotton cloth with a red one, retrimmed the lamps, and
disappeared into an adjoining room, carrying the dishes. The old man lighted his pipe and seated
himself in a large chair, smoking on in silence. I opened my portfolio and began retouching
the sketches of the morning.

Outside the weather grew more boisterous. The wind increased; the rain thrashed against the
small windows, the leakage dropping on the floor like the slow ticking of a clock.

As the evening wore on I began to be uneasy, speculating as to the possibility of my reaching
home that night. To be entirely frank, I did not altogether like my surroundings or my host.
One moment he was like a child; the next there came into his face an expression of uncontrollable
hate that sent a shiver through me. But for the clear, steady gaze of his eye I should have
doubted his sanity.

There was no sign of the return of the boat. The old man became restless himself. He said nothing,
but every now and then he would peer through the window and raise his hand to his ear as if
listening. It was evident that he did not want me over night if he could help it. This partly
reassured me.

Finally, he laid down his pipe, put on his oilskin again, lighted a lantern, and pulled the
door behind him, the wind struggling to force an entrance.

In a few minutes he returned with lantern out, the rain glistening on his white, bushy beard.
Without a word, he hung up his dripping garments, placed the lantern on the floor, and called
the child into the adjoining room. When he came back, he laid his hand on my shoulder and said,
with a tone in his voice that was unmistakable in its sincerity:--

"I am sorry, friend, but the boat cannot get back to-night. You seem like a decent man, and
I believe you are. I knew some of your kind once, and I always liked them. You must stay where
you are to-night, and have Emily's room."

I thanked him, but hoped the weather would clear. As to taking Emily's room, this I could not
do. I would not, of course, disturb the child. If there was no chance of my getting away, I
said, I preferred taking the floor, with my trap for a pillow. But he would not hear of it.
He was not accustomed, he said, to have people stay with him, especially of late years; but
when they did, they could not sleep on the floor.

