The Etruscan tombs which have been opened contain many beautiful objects of various kinds,
and were frequently decorated with mural pictures. They often consist of several rooms, and
have the appearance of being prepared as a home for the living rather than for the dead. I
shall give you no long or wordy description of them; because if what I tell you leads you to
wish to know more about them, there are many excellent books describing them which you can
read. So I will simply give you two cuts from these Etruscan paintings, and tell you about them.

Fig. 5 is in a tomb known as the Grotta della Querciola. The upper part represents a feast,
and the lower portion a boar-hunt in a wood, which is indicated by the few trees and the little
twigs which are intended to represent the underbrush of the forest. If we compare these pictures
with the works of the best Italian masters, they seem very crude and almost childish in their
simplicity; but, if we contrast them with the paintings of the Egyptians and Assyrians, we
see that a great advance has been made since the earliest paintings of which we know were done.
The pose and action of the figures and their grace of movement, as well as the folding of the
draperies, are far better than anything earlier than the Greek painting of which there is any
knowledge; for, as we have said, these Etruscan works are essentially Greek.

Fig. 6 belongs to a later period than the other, and is taken from a tomb at Vulci which was
opened in 1857 by François. This tomb has seven different chambers, several of which are decorated
with wall-paintings of mythological subjects. A square chamber at the end of the tomb has the
most important pictures. On one side the human sacrifices which were customary at Etruscan
funerals are represented: the pictures are very painful, and the terror and agony of the poor
victims who are being put to death make them really repulsive to see. On an opposite wall is
the painting from which our cut is taken. This represents the sacrifices made before Troy by
Achilles, on account of the death of his dear friend Patroklos. The figure with the hammer
is Charon, who stands ready to receive the sacrifice which is intended to win his favor. Your
mythology will tell you the story, which is too long to be given here. The realism of this
picture is shocking in its effect, and yet there is something about the manner of the drawing
and the arrangement of the whole design that fixes our attention even while it makes us shudder.

The ancient wall-paintings which have been found in Rome are far more varied than are those
of Etruria; for, while some of the Roman pictures are found in tombs, others are taken from
baths, palaces, and villas. They generally belong to one period, and that is about the close
of the Republic and the beginning of the Empire. Modern excavations have revealed many of these
ancient paintings; but so many of them crumble and fade away so soon after they are exposed
to the air, that few remain in a condition to afford any satisfaction in seeing them. But fortunately
drawings have been made of nearly all these pictures before they fell into decay.

Some of the ancient paintings have been carefully removed from the walls where they were found,
and placed in museums and other collections. One of the finest of these is in the Vatican,
and is called the Aldobrandini Marriage. It received this name from the fact that Cardinal
Aldobrandini was its first possessor after its discovery, near the Arch of Gallienus, in 1606.

As you will see from Fig. 7, from it, there are three distinct groups represented. In the centre
the bride veiled, with her head modestly bowed down, is seated on a couch with a woman beside
her who seems to be arranging some part of her toilet, while another stands near holding ointment
and a bowl. At the head of the couch the bridegroom is seated on a threshold. The upper part
of his figure is bare, and he has a garland upon his head. On the right of the picture an ante-room
is represented in which are three women with musical instruments, singing sacrificial songs.
To the left, in another apartment, three other women are preparing a bath. This is charming
on account of the sweet, serious way in which the whole story is placed before us; but as a
painting it is an inferior work of art--not in the least above the style which we should call
house decoration.

Although ancient writers had spoken of landscape paintings, it was not until 1848-1850, when
a series of them was discovered on the Esquiline in Rome, that any very satisfactory specimens
could be shown. These pictures number eight: six are complete, of the seventh but half remains,
and the eighth is in a very imperfect state. They may be called historical landscapes, because
each one has a complete landscape as well as figures which tell a story. They illustrate certain
passages from the Odyssey of Homer. The one from which our cut is taken shows the visit of
Ulysses to the lower world. When on the wall the pictures were divided by pilasters, and finished
at the top by a border or frieze. The pilasters are bright red, and the chief colors in the
picture are a yellowish brown and a greenish blue. In this scene the way in which the light
streams through the entrance to the lower world is very striking, and shows the many figures
there with the best possible effect. Even those in the far distance on the right are distinctly
seen. This collection of Esquiline wall-paintings is now in the Vatican Library.

Besides the ancient mural paintings which have been placed in the museums of Rome, there are
others which still remain where they were painted, in palaces, villas, and tombs. Perhaps those
in the house of Livia are the most interesting; they represent mythological stories, and one
frieze has different scenes of street life in an ancient town. Though these decorations are
done in a mechanical sort of painting, such as is practised by the ordinary fresco painters
of our own time, yet there was sufficient artistic feeling in their authors to prevent their
repeating any one design.

One circumstance proves that this class of picture was not thought very important when it was
made, which is that the name of the artist is rarely found upon his work: in but one instance
either in Rome or Pompeii has this occurred, namely, in a chamber which was excavated in the
gardens of the Farnesina Palace at Rome, and the name is Seleucus.

We have not space to speak of all the Italian cities in which these remains are discovered,
and, as Pompeii is the one most frequently visited and that in which a very large proportion
of the ancient pictures have been found, I will give a few illustrations from them, and leave
the subject of ancient, mural paintings there. Many of the Pompeian pictures have been removed
to the Museum of Naples, though many still remain where they were first painted.

The variety of subjects at Pompeii is large: there are landscapes, hunting scenes, mythological
subjects, numerous kinds of single figures, such as dancing girls, the hours, or seasons, graces,
satyrs, and many others; devotional pictures, such as representations of the ancient divinities,
lares, penates, and genii; pictures of tavern scenes, of mechanics at their work; rope-dancers
and representations of various games, gladiatorial contests, genre scenes from the lives of
children, youths, and women, festival ceremonies, actors, poets, and stage scenes, and last,
but not least, many caricatures, of which I here give you an example (Fig. 9).

The largest dog is Æneas, who leads the little Ascanius by the hand and carries his father,
Anchises, on his shoulder. Frequently in the ancient caricatures monkeys are made to take the
part of historical and imaginary heroes.

Fig. 11 shows you how these painted walls were sometimes divided; the principal subjects were
surrounded by ornamental borders, and the spaces between filled in with all sorts of little
compartments. The small spaces in this picture are quite regular in form; but frequently they
are of varied shapes, and give a very decorative effect to the whole work. The colors used
upon these different panels, as they may be called, were usually red, yellow, black, and white--more
rarely blue and green. Sometimes the entire decoration consisted of these small, variously
colored spaces, divided by some graceful little border, with a very small figure, plant, or
other object in the centre of each space.

Fig. 10, of Demeter, or Ceres, enthroned is an example of such devotional paintings as were
placed above the altars and shrines for private worship in the houses of Pompeii, or at the
street corners, just as we now see pictures and sacred figures in street shrines in Roman Catholic
countries. In ancient days, as now, these pictures were often done in a coarse and careless
manner, as if religious use, and not art, was the object in the mind of the artist.

Fig. 12, of a Nest of Cupids is a very interesting example of Pompeian painting, and to my
mind it more nearly resembles pictures of later times than does any other ancient painting
of which I know.

MOSAICS.

The pictures known as mosaics are made by fitting together bits of marble, stone, or glass
of different colors and so arranging them as to represent figures and objects of various kinds,
so that at a distance they have much the same effect as that of pictures painted with brush
and colors. The art of making mosaics is very ancient, and was probably invented in the East,
where it was used for borders and other decorations in regular set patterns. It was not until
after the time of Alexander the Great that the Greeks used this process for making pictures.
At first, too, mosaics were used for floors or pavements only, and the designs in them were
somewhat like those of the tile pavements of our own time.

This picture of doves will give you a good idea of a mosaic; this subject is a very interesting
one, because it is said to have been first made by Sosos in Pergamos. It was often repeated
in later days, and that from which our cut is taken was found in the ruins of Hadrian's villa
at Tivoli, near Rome; it is known as the Capitoline Doves, from the fact that it is now in
the Capitoline Museum in Rome. Few works of ancient art are more admired and as frequently
copied as this mosaic: it is not unusual to see ladies wear brooches with this design in fine
mosaic work.

A few examples of ancient mosaics which were used for wall decorations have been found; they
may almost be said not to exceed a dozen; but pavement mosaics are very numerous, and are still
seen in the places for which they were designed and where they have been during many centuries,
as well as in museums to which they have been removed. They are so hard in outline and so mechanical
in every way that they are not very attractive if we think of them as pictures, and their chief
interest is in the skill and patience with which mosaic workers combine the numberless particles
of one substance and another which go to make up the whole.

Mosaic pictures, as a rule, are not large; but one found at Palestrina, which is called the
Nile mosaic, is six by five metres inside. Its subject is the inundation of a village on the
river Nile. There are an immense number of figures and a variety of scenes in it; there are
Egyptians hunting the Nile horse, a party of revellers in a bower draped with vines, bands
of warriors and other groups of men occupied in different pursuits, and all represented at
the season when the Nile overflows its banks. This is a very remarkable work, and it has been
proved that a portion of the original is in the Berlin Museum, and has been replaced by a copy
at Palestrina.

PAINTINGS ON STONE.

It is well known that much of the decoration of Greek edifices was in colors. Of course these
paintings were put upon the marble and stone of which the structures were made. The Greeks
also made small pictures and painted them on stone, just as canvas and panels of wood are now
used. Such painted slabs have been found in Herculaneum, in Corneto, and in different Etruscan
tombs; but the most important and satisfactory one was found at Pompeii in 1872. Since then
the colors have almost vanished; but Fig. 14, from it, will show you how it appeared when found.
It represents the mythological story of the punishment of Niobe, and is very beautiful in its
design.

VASE-PAINTING.

Vase-painting was another art very much practised by the ancients. So much can be said of it
that it would require more space than we can give for its history even in outline. So I shall
only say that it fills an important place in historic art, because from the thousands of ancient
vases that have been found in one country and another, much has been learned concerning the
history of these lands and the manners and customs of their people; occasionally inscriptions
are found upon decorated vases which are of great value to scholars who study the history of
the past.

The Dodwell vase shows you the more simple style of decoration which was used in the earlier
times. Gradually the designs came to be more and more elaborate, until whole stories were as
distinctly told by the pictures on vases as if they had been written out in books. The next
cut, which is made from a vase-painting, will show what I mean.

The subject of Fig. 16 is connected with the service of the dead, and shows a scene in the
under world, such as accorded with ancient religious notions. In the upper portion the friends
of the deceased are grouped around a little temple. Scholars trace the manufacture of these
vases back to very ancient days, and down to its decline, about two centuries before Christ.
I do not mean that vase-painting ceased then, for its latest traces come down to 65 B.C.; but
like all other ancient arts, it was then in a state of decadence. Though vase-painting was
one of the lesser arts, its importance can scarcely be overestimated, and it fully merits the
devoted study and admiration which it receives from those who are learned in its history.

From what we know of ancient Greek painting we may believe that this art first reached perfection
in Greece. If we could see the best works of Apelles, who reached the highest excellence of
any Greek painter, we might find some lack of the truest science of the art when judged by
more modern standards; but the Greeks must still be credited with having been the first to
create a true art of painting. After the decline of Greek art fifteen centuries elapsed before
painting was again raised to the rank which the Greeks had given it, and if, according to our
ideas, the later Italian painting is in any sense superior to the Greek, we must at least admit
that the study of the works of antiquity which still remained in Italy, excited the great masters
of the Renaissance to the splendid achievements which they attained.

The Middle Ages extend from the latter part of the fifth century to the time of the Renaissance,
or about the fifteenth century. The painting of this period has little to attract attention
if regarded only from an artistic stand-point, for we may truly say that, comparing it with
the Greek art which had preceded it, or with the Italian art which followed it, that of the
Middle Ages had no claim to the beautiful. On the other hand, it is full of interest to students,
because it has its part in the history of art; therefore I shall give a mere outline of it,
so that this link in the chain which unites ancient and modern painting may not be entirely
wanting in our book.

Early mediæval painting, down to about A.D. 950, consists principally of paintings in burial-places,
mosaics (usually in churches), and of miniatures, or the illustration and illumination of MSS.,
which were the books of that time, and were almost without exception religious writings. This
period is called the Early Period of the Middle Ages, and the pictures are often called the
works of Early Christian Art.

About 1050 a revival of intellectual pursuits began in some parts of Europe, and from that
time it may be said that the Renaissance, or new birth of art and letters, was in its A B Cs,
or very smallest beginnings. The period between 950 and 1250 is often called the Central or
Romanesque Period of the Middle Ages, and it was during this time that glass-painting originated;
it is one of the most interesting features of art in mediæval times.

From 1250 to 1400 comes the Final or Gothic Period of the Middle Ages, and this has some very
interesting features which foretell the coming glory of the great Renaissance.

THE EARLY PERIOD.

The paintings of the catacombs date from the third and fourth centuries after Christ. The catacombs,
or burial-places of the early Christians, consist of long, narrow, subterranean passages, cut
with regularity, and crossing each other like streets in a city. The graves are in the sides
of these passages, and there are some larger rooms or chambers into which the narrow passages
run. There are about sixty of the catacombs in and near Rome; they are generally called by
the name of some saint who is buried in them. Character of primitive peoples
§ 7 Excesses of primitive peoples § 8
Infertility. Artificial abortion. Infanticide § 9 War
and cannibalism § 10 Human sacrifice
§ 11 Constitutional
and legal § 12 Natural influences
§ 13 External influences
of higher culture on the indigenous peoples § 14 Psychological
effects of culture § 15 Difficulty for the
indigenous people, the modern culture, to acquire § 16 Treatment
      of native
peoples by the whites. Africa. America § 17 Continued. The silent ocean
§ 18 Geographic distribution of the
specific reasons for the extinction of native peoples. Comparison of these
      reasons related to their weight § 19 Comparison of the natural and civilized
nations in terms of their Life force § 20 Endangered and enduring
      indigenous
peoples § 21 The African Negro § 22 Conclusions
from the way the indigenous people
of the culture are treated § 23 Future of indigenous peoples, means
      to lift them §
24 Value of indigenous peoples to mankind and its
development. Final
      

§ 1 Introduction. Extent of extinction.

The phenomenon that a number of nations before our eyes by slower or faster Passing away their demise
is approaching, is an extremely important one. That for the historical research has great importance,
will change easily, that for the natural history of man, anthropology is crucial, too. And if
it is confirmed to be true that, as It has been said, these people from a life disability,
which in nature adheres to the Stop go to meet, so, as the necessary consequence of that statement
leads to it, that various types of higher and lower in the sex takes man, the answer this question
for the philosophy prevailing. In effect, they have always been in the States stresses, where White living
with blacks, just how the theory of reduced viability non-white races
has placed first in those states.

And although it is striking that only show colored races this waning, and most it shows where
they have come into contact with the white, the whites, although they but her home, abandoned the usual
climate, etc and have direct contact in live with those who in their
country, apparently degenerated under the old conditions of life,
which seem to be completely spared.

While we now this waning, mostly in the uncivilized races, among primitive peoples, ie with the
peoples that the natural state of mankind still relatively close to (Waitz 1, 346), or in which
to talk to Steinthal, no significant Development of logic skills has taken place: we see it but too
well where colored races soared to culture and even to a certain level of culture have, in
Polynesia, Mexico, Peru, and it has therefore concluded that once these Culture but only half of
culture and was of little importance, for it had been true and whole it would have lent greater
force: otherwise, that certain races, even if they really risen above the level of the ordinary
"savages" had, but an early Went to meet death, as they are now just destined by nature to
extinction because it them precisely, following its Raçeneigenthümlichkeit, lack of viability, which
no culture can replace: rather uncover any kind of culture that lack all the more pitiless. However,
there are colored races and primitive peoples, in which a non-extinction thinking is, and
the other, are also part of civilized peoples, Indo-European, Semitic Tribes disappeared and died
out. But on the latter does not speak one of lower Viability, once recognized because of the relationship
of these strains with the most viable Peoples of the world, on the other hand, because of the nature
of her disappearance. For the reason why they have ceased to exist, is obvious, sometimes they
are destroyed by war, Like so many peoples who fought with the old Rome, and partly they are in other
civilized nations, which surrounded it rings, fused, like the Goths, the Vandals, sometimes both at
once entered one: the higher stage of civilization, which they defeated, took the defeated remnants
in how the ancient Prussians, the Wends and so many Slavic peoples through and in Germany,
the Iberians, the Celts through and in the Roman character disappeared. It was also undoubtedly
the fate of peoples who had occupied before the arrival of the Indo-European. Anders But is the
disappearance of indigenous people: where they come together with a higher culture, and also
because, where this last peaceful acts against them, we see it seized by diseases will dry up
their physical and mental capacity, and their number is often extremely rapidly diminish. However,
individual indigenous people wiped out or at least strongly reduced by all external and easily
understandable reasons: as for instance many Malay Strains, by the relatives that people in the
mountains pushed back, while certainly been reduced as well as strong, as by their common fate,
the Basques in Europe, while they hold in their mountains in quite the same number, so the residents
the Warekauri (Chatham) Islands in New Zealand, the Moreore. 1832-35 or 1500 about what were,
by the New Zealanders, however, who in those years a train to the Warekauriinseln undertook
almost completely eradicated, so that their number is now only 200: and take out, by rapidly
assimilating to the immigrants from Maori (Travers at Peterm. 1866, 62). Also we have to front
the black aborigines of India, the Deccan and mention Vindhyavölker, because even after they
leave (particular archeology 1, 390) gradually . Remove Formerly they were more spread out and some
remnants of them seem to Let ( ibid 387 et seq) in the Himalayas, in Balochistan, Thibet,
and otherwise to have received. They were by the advancing Aryan Indians and driven back certainly
not peaceful in the mountains (Let 366), where they now partly in the barbaric state lived on, but
partly, and so especially the southern Dekhanvölker, in the Indian culture were (Let 364th 371).
A similar fate befell several American tribes, the more powerful other Indian peoples partly annihilated,
were either incorporated in, even by individual Hottentottenvölkern mentioned a similar mixture
with Kaffir tribes (Waitz 2, 318).

But some people also seem diminished or even disappeared, without actually be. Such a certificate
is produced as a Waitz, 159-160 shows, partly through alteration
of names, where they now falsely accepted because the name does not
exist, it should also People off, or by errors of passengers by extending
some names too far but others are based on stark misunderstanding,
or by incorrect estimation of the number of people, as they are often
greatly exaggerated, especially in older travelers, for example, in
Polynesia Cook found, and the like

Before us now but the reasons
for that is less easily explained waning of primitive peoples , We
have to go to see the extent of it, but we all parts of the world
except Europe have taken into account.

In Asia are dying or are already extinct and the Kamchadals as quickly went their Reduction
prior to the Langsdorff (1803-4, Kruse companion star) cities, which Cooksche the La Perouse
expedition and still well populated saw was completely deserted. When La Perouse 1787 on the peninsula
throughout the 4000 residents still found (2.166), so the Russian immigrants in this number,
in spite of several square miles, hardly a Man is already included.

For Cook's travel companion (1780) found after the communications a resident officer in Kamchatka
only 3,000 inhabitants, the Kuril Islands have are counted, they tell themselves is how the natives
more and more with the immigrant Russians join and thereby increasing
their number decreases (Cook 3rd row 4, 175).

La Perouse Companion Lessep (41) claims that only a quarter of the actual Kamchadals had left,
and he was not even a full century after the first venture of the Russians (1696) to Kamchatka
there. The same is likely to happen except in the Yakut and Yukagirs Siberia Waitz, (1, 164),
the Aleutian Islands to the fox and the kindred tribes to the nearest coasts of America, which
we mention here the same because they, too, as the Kamchadals under the same pressure Russia.
Langsdorff took place at the Fox Island only about 300 Men, while for 1796 1300 and 3000 and even
more for 1783-87 indicates. The rising of Numbers, which we see the beginning of this century,
is not comforting. For if Chamisso (177, second note) files to regular communications for the Fox
Islands, Aleutian Islands 1806 on 1334 men and 570 women, 1817 to 462 indicating the other
hand, men and 584 women, provides He first, however, these striking numbers, even with a question
mark, and second, if they are right too, Langsdorff wrong and the number of people are not Russian
Immigrants has increased: the decline of the population of 1806-1817 is certainly just as bad
as as we find it described in Langsdorff. The official report of 1860 at Peterm. 1863 70 outputs
in 4645 residents of the Fox Islands alone here in any case the Russians, who are now on the islands are
located, counted, although the hybrids, 1896 souls, nor particularly be specified and this
increase, which is found uniformly on Kamchatka, is only apparent.

Known is the extinction of Native Americans, whose number one in North America for the Time of the
discovery about 16 million, now hardly estimated 2 million (b Waitz, 16). In 1864 the number of
Indians in the United States was approximately 275 000, 1860, there were or 294.431, 1841 but
on a smaller area 342.058 souls, so that its 23 Years, a loss of nearly 70,000 people out to (eb
18). Even lower figures There Behm (105 ff) to, namely 268.000 independent Indians for the United
States, 155,000 for British North America. And while d'Orbigny (1838) for the larger visited by
him Part of South America counted 1,685,127 Indian (b Waitz, 16). Sun Behm is also lower Figures
on Brazil after him (ibid.) 500 000 independent Indians, the three Guianas 9770, Venezuela,
52.400, 126.000 New Granada, Ecuador, 200,000, Peru 400,000, Bolivia 245 000, Chile 10,000,
the States of the Argentine Republic 40,000, Patagonia and Tierra
del Fuego 30,000, So together 1,613,170 and indeed for all of South
America.

But this much alone, the population of Chile at the time of discovery (Poeppig 385 note) for
a minimum of assumptions. Central America in 1800 had two and a half million of unmixed indigenous
peoples, these Number was growing (Humboldt a 1, 107), but at the time of discovery was the
number of people in Tenochtitlan, the ancient capital of Mexico and him alone nearby Tezkuko
was to average data close to a million and the country thickly covered with large and populous
Cities. Behm will present as independent indigenous people only 6000 (ibid.), a figure against which
Humboldt's data is extremely low: only Behm estimates only the Indians from, "what are the
authorities" withdraw completely, while the natives Humboldt mitbegreift, which are in European
life as good as the Spanish Mexicans take part. Behm (114) estimates this to 4,800,000. Of
course, this goes extinct even now still further, what von Tschudi 2, 216 is an example: the
Mala Lies, an Araucanian tribe in 1787 still over 500 individuals strongly rendered, in that time
together by war to 26 souls. Although they are established now for 70 years and have lived safely,
their number is not yet rose higher than on some over thirty.

In Africa, the Hottentots first of which belong in the circle of our consideration. While they
used to be stretched out far into the interior of South Africa and many in a Amount of individual
tribes were divided, we find them now on much smaller areas and rubbed down to 3 strains Korana, Namaqua
and Griqua (Waitz 2, 317 ff), the Number is constantly in the fall. The Kafirs must be mentioned
here, because in the British Kafraria added in 1857 the population decreased by more than half:
it was at the beginning 104.721 souls of the year and at the end of it, only 52.186 (Peterm. 1859 p.
79 after Population Return v. John Maclean Chief Commissioner): However, according to Behm (100)
1861 74.648 natives.

We will now look to Australia and Oceania left, where in many places the Population vanishes rapidly,
especially in New Holland. But it is precisely for this country difficult, if not quite impossible
to give figures because the tribes constantly points strutting and
and therefore, all numerical data are reliable very little (Grey 2,
246).

Those who Meinicke A 177 sets up, prove it sufficiently, and even at the Behm (72) are not secure.
Only South Australia, Queensland and Victoria, he has certain census results and so is his Gesammtziffer
55 000, only a very approximate. All but sources report unanimously, that the population of
at least the coasts decreases tearing, that tribes, which used to Hundreds were, are now often
up to as many decimal melted. The Tasmania's population was 1843 with 54 individuals, 1854 for
16 (Nixon 18) and is now probably quite extinct.

Though not so rapid decrease, then the Melanesians but also in different
areas their territory: so after Reina (Zeitschrift 4, 360), the peoples
of the small islands near of New Guinea: so to D'Urville 5, 213 residents
of Vanikoro, according to Turner 494 The natives the New Hebrides,
such as the population of Anneitum 1860, which Turner to 3513 souls
estimated 1,100 people lost by a measles epidemic (Muray at Behm 77)
and by Erromango 1842 dangerous by dysentery has been reduced by one
third (Turner, supra), and so there are still a variety of information
scattered.

In Micronesia, the population of the Mariana Islands, which on arrival of the Spaniards in 1668
at least 78.000 inhabitants have had, but for which also no means too high 100 000 (Gulick
170) died out completely. Already in 1720 the islands had (and that only the two southernmost
were) no more than about 2000 inhabitants, and of these, very many of the Philippines, her transplanted
Tagalog. Ponapi (Puynipet, east end of the Caroline Islands) had to Hale (82) 15,000 inhabitants,
which assumption may be somewhat but not too high [A]; Now she (Gulick 358) nor 5000, Qusay
(Ualan) had 1852 12-1300, 1862 only 700 People (Gulick 245).

In Polynesia, Tahiti was the population in Cook's day (1770) about
15 to 16.000 souls (G. Forster after a Spanish description of Tahiti
1778 ad sat.

Works 4.211; Bratring 104, which follows the same source or at least a closely related). The same
Wilson was still paid in 1797, Turnbull (259) are only 5,000 in the year 1803, Waldegrave Meinicke
at b, 113 6000 for 1830 and Ellis 1, 102 for 1820 as 10,000, which number Virgin for 1852 also indicates
(2, 41). Do these figures vague and uncertain and Turnbull Information is not overly negative,
this much is very clear that since the discovery by the Europeans, the depopulation of the island,
however, after the testimony of the natives (Virgin 2, 41) had started earlier, has progressed
rapidly, to less than half the former Head count decline the information.

On the other Societätsinseln was the ratio (Meinicke cited above) a similar one. Even now it seems
the extinction, although slower to go away: The official French report for 1862 is for residents
of Tahiti 9086 (Behm 81).

On Laivavai, one of the Austral Islands, the population in 1822 was at least 1200, 1830 only
still about 120 and 1834 barely 100 souls (Moerenhout 1, 143). Cheaper Meinicke estimate which
takes in the whole group, the end of 1830 some 5,000 souls, for 1840 only 2000 (ibid. 114).
Rapa estimated Vankouver 1795 to 1500 inhabitants, Moerenhout (1,
139) 1834 only to 300 and they were in constant decline.

The Herveygruppe which Ellis 1, 102 10-11.000 Residents there, is now much less numerous lives,
including Rarotonga, which by suffered a terrible disease has the highest degree (Williams
281).

Quite as bad as it is in Hawaii, where, according Ohmstedt 262, the population in the years
1832-36 130,000 to 102,000 souls, so in 4 years decreased by 28.000 souls! Mag Ohmstedt now are
also right that the population figure for 1836 is too low, because a lot of births not been
reported are: as the passing away is still quite extraordinary, especially the island in Cook's
day, indicating 400 000 inhabitants, probably to 300 000 to calculate Jarven (373) had. The numbers
in Meinicke (b, 115-16 gazette after the Sandwich Isl) are not exactly the same, the ratio
of the decrease but remains even if we follow them unchanged. According to Virgin 1, 267 had
the Hawaiian group in 1823 about 142 000 souls in 1832 still 130.313,
1836 108.579 and in 1850 the figure was only 84.165!

So in 78 years, the population by one third and reduced the number of births were to the death
like 1:3! Even now proceeds to reduce: the number of natives amounted to the Census of 1860 only 67.084
souls (Behm 85).

is also on the Markesasarchipel, whose population by Meinicke (b, 115) 22.000 people is a waning
noticed: so lost Nukuhiva (Rodriguet in Revue de 2 mondes 1859 2, 638) of 1806-12 two thirds
of its population to famine

.
 The wealth
of ornament in the border is a characteristic of the French miniatures of the time. The Germans
used a simpler style, as you will see by Fig. 25, of the Annunciation.

The influence of the Gothic order of architecture upon glass-painting was very pronounced.
Under this order the windows became much more important than they had been, and it was not
unusual to see a series of windows painted in such pictures as illustrated the whole teaching
of the doctrines of the church. It was at this time that the custom arose of donating memorial
windows to religious edifices. Sometimes they were the gift of a person or a family, and the
portraits of the donors were painted in the lower part of the window, and usually in a kneeling
posture; at other times windows were given by guilds, and it is very odd to see craftsmen of
various sorts at work in a cathedral window: such pictures exist at Chartres, Bourges, Amiens,
and other places.

About A.D. 1300 it began to be the custom to represent architectural effects upon colored windows.
Our cut is from a window at Konigsfelden, and will show exactly what I mean (Fig. 26).

This style of decoration was not as effective as the earlier ones had been, and, indeed, from
about this time glass-painting became less satisfactory than before, from the fact that it
had more resemblance to panel-painting, and so lost a part of the individuality which had belonged
to it.

Wall-paintings were rare in the Gothic period, for its architecture left no good spaces where
the pictures could be placed, and so the interior painting of the churches was almost entirely
confined to borders and decorative patterns scattered here and there and used with great effect.
In Germany and England wall-painting was more used for the decoration of castles, halls, chambers,
and chapels; but as a whole mural painting was of little importance at this time in comparison
with its earlier days.

About A.D. 1350 panel pictures began to be more numerous, and from this time there are vague
accounts of schools of painting at Prague and Cologne, and a few remnants exist which prove
that such works were executed in France and Flanders; but I shall pass over what is often called
the Transitional Period, by which we mean the time in which new influences were beginning to
act, and hereafter I will tell our story by giving accounts of the lives of separate painters;
for from about the middle of the thirteenth century it is possible to trace the history of
painting through the study of individual artists.

GIOVANNI CIMABUE, the first painter of whom I shall tell you, was born in Florence in 1240.
He is sometimes called the "Father of Modern Painting," because he was the first who restored
that art to any degree of the beauty to which it had attained before the Dark Ages. The Cimabui
were a noble family, and Giovanni was allowed to follow his own taste, and became a painter;
he was also skilled in mosaic work, and during the last years of his life held the office of
master of the mosaic workers in the Cathedral of Pisa, where some of his own mosaics still remain.

Of his wall-paintings I shall say nothing except to tell you that the finest are in the Upper
Church at Assisi, where one sees the first step in the development of the art of Tuscany. But
I wish to tell the story of one of his panel pictures, which is very interesting. It is now
in the Rucellai Chapel of the Church of Santa Maria Novella, in Florence, and it is only just
in me to say that if one of my readers walked through that church and did not know about this
picture, it is doubtful if he would stop to look at it--certainly he would not admire it. The
story is that when Cimabue was about thirty years old he was busy in painting this picture
of the Madonna Enthroned, and he would not allow any one to see what he was doing.

It happened, however, that Charles of Anjou, being on his way to Naples, stopped in Florence,
where the nobles did everything in their power for his entertainment. Among other places they
took him to the studio of Cimabue, who uncovered his picture for the first time. Many persons
then flocked to see it, and were so loud in their joyful expressions of admiration for it that
the part of the city in which the studio was has since been called the Borgo Allegri, or the
"joyous quarter."

When the picture was completed the day was celebrated as a festival; a procession was formed;
bands of music played joyful airs; the magistrates of Florence honored the occasion with their
presence; and the picture was borne in triumph to the church. Cimabue must have been very happy
at this great appreciation of his art, and from that time he was famous in all Italy.

Another madonna by this master is in the Academy of Florence, and one attributed to him is
in the Louvre, in Paris.

Cimabue died about 1302, and was buried in the Church of Santa Maria del Fiore, or the Cathedral
of Florence. Above his tomb these words were inscribed: "Cimabue thought himself master of
the field of painting. While living, he was so. Now he holds his place among the stars of heaven."

Other artists who were important in this early time of the revival of painting were ANDREA
TAFI, a mosaist of Florence, MARGARITONE OF AREZZO, GUIDO OF SIENA, and of the same city DUCCIO,
the son of Buoninsegna. This last painter flourished from 1282 to 1320; his altar-piece for
the Cathedral of Siena was also carried to its place in solemn procession, with the sound of
trumpet, drum, and bell.

GIOTTO DI BONDONE was the next artist in whom we have an unusual interest. He was born at Del
Colle, in the commune of Vespignano, probably about 1266, though the date is usually given
ten years later. One of the best reasons for calling Cimabue the "Father of Painting" is that
he acted the part of a father to Giotto, who proved to be so great an artist that from his
time painting made a rapid advance. The story is that one day when Cimabue rode in the valley
of Vespignano he saw a shepherd-boy who was drawing a portrait of one of his sheep on a flat
rock, by means of a pointed bit of slate for a pencil. The sketch was so good that Cimabue
offered to take the boy to Florence, and teach him to paint. The boy's father consented, and
henceforth the little Giotto lived with Cimabue, who instructed him in painting, and put him
to study letters under Brunetto Latini, who was also the teacher of the great poet, Dante.

The picture which we give here is from the earliest work by Giotto of which we have any knowledge.
In it were the portraits of Dante, Latini, and several others. This picture was painted on
a wall of the Podestà at Florence, and when Dante was exiled from that city his portrait was
covered with whitewash; in 1841 it was restored to the light, having been hidden for centuries.
It is a precious memento of the friendship between the great artist and the divine poet, who
expressed his admiration of Giotto in these lines:--

      "In painting Cimabue fain had thought
         To lord the field; now Giotto has the cry,
       So that the other's fame in shade is brought."

Giotto did much work in Florence; he also, about 1300, executed frescoes in the Lower Church
at Assisi; from 1303-1306 he painted his beautiful pictures in the Cappella dell' Arena, at
Padua, by which the genius of Giotto is now most fully shown. He worked at Rimini also, and
about 1330 was employed by King Robert of Naples, who conferred many honors upon him, and made
him a member of his own household. In 1334 Giotto was made the chief master of the cathedral
works in Florence, as well as of the city fortifications and all architectural undertakings
by the city authorities. He held this high position but three years, as he died on January 8, 1337.

Giotto was also a great architect, as is well known from his tower in Florence, for which he
made all the designs and a part of the working models, while some of the sculptures and reliefs
upon it prove that he was skilled in modelling and carving. He worked in mosaics also, and
the famous "Navicella," in the vestibule of St. Peter's at Rome, was originally made by him,
but has now been so much restored that it is doubtful if any part of what remains was done
by Giotto's hands.

The works of Giotto are too numerous to be mentioned here, and his merits as an artist too
important to be discussed in our limits; but his advance in painting was so great that he deserved
the great compliment of Cennino, who said that Giotto "had done or translated the art of painting
from Greek into Latin."

I shall, however, tell you of one excellent thing that he did, which was to make the representation
of the crucifix far more refined and Christ-like than it had ever been. Before his time every
effort had been made to picture physical agony alone. Giotto gave a gentle face, full of suffering,
it is true, but also expressive of tenderness and resignation, and it would not be easy to
paint a better crucifix than those of this master.

In person Giotto was so ugly that his admirers made jokes about it; but he was witty and attractive
in conversation, and so modest that his friends were always glad to praise him while he lived,
and since his death his fame has been cherished by all who have written of him. There are many
anecdotes told of Giotto. One is that on a very hot day in Naples, King Robert said to the
painter, "Giotto, if I were you, I would leave work, and rest." Giotto quickly replied, "So
would I, sire, if I were you."

When the same king asked him to paint a picture which would represent his kingdom, Giotto drew
an ass bearing a saddle on which were a crown and sceptre, while at the feet of the ass there
was a new saddle with a shining new crown and sceptre, at which the ass was eagerly smelling.
By this he intended to show that the Neapolitans were so fickle that they were always looking
for a new king.

There is a story which has been often repeated which says, that in order to paint his crucifixes
so well, he persuaded a man to be bound to a cross for an hour as a model; and when he had
him there he stabbed him, in order to see such agony as he wished to paint. When the Pope saw
the picture he was so pleased with it that he wished to have it for his own chapel; then Giotto
confessed what he had done, and showed the body of the dead man. The Pope was so angry that
he threatened the painter with the same death, upon which Giotto brushed the picture over so
that it seemed to be destroyed. Then the Pope so regretted the loss of the crucifix that he
promised to pardon Giotto if he would paint him another as good. Giotto exacted the promise
in writing, and then, with a wet sponge, removed the wash he had used, and the picture was
as good as before. According to tradition all famous crucifixes were drawn from this picture
ever after.

When Boniface VIII. sent a messenger to invite Giotto to Rome, the messenger asked Giotto to
show him something of the art which had made him so famous. Giotto, with a pencil, by a single
motion drew so perfect a circle that it was thought to be a miracle, and this gave rise to
a proverb still much used in Italy:--Piu tondo che l'O di Giotto, or, "Rounder than the O of
Giotto."

Giotto had a wife and eight children, of whom nothing is known but that his son Francesco became
a painter. Giotto died in 1337, and was buried with great honors in the Church of Santa Maria
del Fiore. Lorenzo de Medici erected a monument to his memory. The pupils and followers of
Giotto were very numerous, and were called Giotteschi; among these TADDEO GADDI, and his son
AGNOLO, are most famous: others were MASO and BERNARDO DI DADDO; but I shall not speak in detail
of these artists.

While Giotto was making the art of Florence famous, there was an artist in Siena who raised
the school of that city to a place of great honor. This was SIMONE MARTINI, who lived from
1283 to 1344, and is often called SIMONE MEMMI because he married a sister of another painter,
LIPPO MEMMI. The most important works of Simone which remain are at Siena in the Palazzo Pubblico
and in the Lower Church at Assisi. There is one beautiful work of his in the Royal Institution,
at Liverpool, which illustrates the text, "Behold, thy father and I have sought Thee, sorrowing."

While the Papal court was at Avignon, in 1338, Simone removed to that city. Here he became
the friend of Petrarch and of Laura, and has been praised by this poet as Giotto was by Dante.

Another eminent Florentine artist was ANDREA ORCAGNA, as he is called, though his real name
was ANDREA ARCAGNUOLO DI CIONE. He was born about 1329, and died about 1368. It has long been
the custom to attribute to Orcagna some of the most important frescoes in the Campo Santo at
Pisa; but it is so doubtful whether he worked there that I shall not speak of them. His father
was a goldsmith, and Orcagna first studied his father's craft; he was also an architect, sculptor,
mosaist, and poet, as well as a painter. He made an advance in color and in the painting of
atmosphere that gives him high rank as a painter; as a sculptor, his tabernacle in the Church
of Or San Michele speaks his praise. Mr. C. C. Perkins thus describes it: "Built of white marble
in the Gothic style, enriched with every kind of ornament, and storied with bas-reliefs illustrative
of the Madonna's history from her birth to her death, it rises in stately beauty toward the
roof of the church, and, whether considered from an architectural, sculptural, or symbolic
point of view, must excite the warmest admiration in all who can appreciate the perfect unity
of conception through which its bas-reliefs, statuettes, busts, intaglios, mosaics, and incrustations
of pietre dure, gilded glass, and enamels are welded into a unique whole."

But perhaps it is as an architect that Orcagna is most interesting to us, for he it was who
made the designs for the Loggia de Lanzi in Florence. This was built as a place for public
assembly, and the discussion of the topics of the day in rainy weather; it received its name
on account of its nearness to the German guard-house which was called that of the Landsknechts
(in German), or Lanzi, as it was given in Italian. Orcagna probably died before the Loggia
was completed, and his brother Bernardo succeeded him as architect of the commune. This Loggia
is one of the most interesting places in Florence, fully in sight of the Palazzo Signoria,
near the gallery of the Uffizi, and itself the storehouse of precious works of sculpture.

There were also in these early days of the fourteenth century schools of art at Bologna and
Modena; but we know so little of them in detail that I shall not attempt to give any account
of them here, but will pass to the early artists who may be said to belong to the true Renaissance
in Italy.

The reawakening of Art in Italy which followed the darkness of the Middle Ages, dates from
about the beginning of the fifteenth century and is called the Renaissance. The Italians have
a method of reckoning the centuries which differs from ours. Thus we call 1800 the first year
of the nineteenth century, but they call it the first of the eighteenth; so the painters of
what was to us the fifteenth century are called by Italians the "quattrocentisti," or men of
the fourteenth century, and while to us the term "cinquecento" means the style of the sixteenth
century, to the Italians the same century, which begins with 1500, is the fifteenth century.

I shall use our own method of reckoning in my writing; but this fact should be known to all
who read or study art.

The first painter of whom I shall now speak is known to us as FRA ANGELICO. His name was Guido,
the son of Pietro, and he was born at Vicchio in the province of Mugello, in the year 1387.
We know that his family was in such circumstances that the young Guido could have led a life
of ease; but he early determined to become a preaching friar. Meantime, even as a boy, he showed
his taste for art, and there are six years in his life, from the age of fourteen to twenty,
of which no one can tell the story. However, from what followed it is plain that during this
time he must somewhere have devoted himself to the study of painting and to preparation for
his life as a monk.

Before he was fully twenty years old, he entered the convent at Fiesole, and took the name
of Fra, or Brother Giovanni; soon after, his elder brother joined him there, and became Fra
Benedetto. Later on our artist was called Fra Angelico, and again Il Beato Angelico, and then,
according to Italian custom, the name of the town from which he came was added, so that he
was at last called Il Beato Giovanni, detto Angelico, da Fiesole, which means, "The Blessed
John, called the Angelic, of Fiesole." The title Il Beato is usually conferred by the church,
but it was given to Fra Angelico by the people, because of his saintly character and works.

It was in 1407 that Fra Angelico was admitted to the convent in Fiesole, and after seven years
of peaceful life there he was obliged to flee with his companions to Foligno. It was at the
time when three different popes claimed the authority over the Church of Rome, and the city
of Florence declared itself in favor of Alexander V.; but the monks of Fiesole adhered to Gregory
XII., and for this reason were driven from their convent. Six years they dwelt at Foligno;
then the plague broke out in the country about them, and again they fled to Cortona. Pictures
painted by Fra Angelico at this time still remain in the churches of Cortona.

After an absence of ten years the monks returned to Fiesole, where our artist passed the next
eighteen years. This was the richest period of his life: his energy was untiring, and his zeal
both as an artist and as a priest burned with a steady fire. His works were sought for far
and wide, and most of his easel-pictures were painted during this time. Fra Angelico would
never accept the money which was paid for his work; it was given into the treasury of his convent;
neither did he accept any commission without the consent of the prior. Naturally, the monk-artist
executed works for the adornment of his own convent. Some of these have been sold and carried
to other cities and countries, and those which remain have been too much injured and too much
restored to be considered important now.

He painted so many pictures during this second residence at Fiesole, not only for public places,
but for private citizens, that Vasari wrote: "This Father painted so many pictures, which are
dispersed through the houses of the Florentines, that sometimes I am lost in wonder when I
think how works so good and so many could, though in the course of many years, have been brought
to perfection by one man alone."

In 1436 the great Cosimo de Medici insisted that the monks of Fiesole should again leave their
convent, and remove to that of San Marco, in Florence. Most unwillingly the brethren submitted,
and immediately Cosimo set architects and builders to work to erect a new convent, for the
old one was in a ruinous state. The new cloisters offered a noble field to the genius of Fra
Angelico, and he labored for their decoration with his whole soul; though the rule of the order
was so strict that the pictures in the cells could be seen only by the monks, he put all his
skill into them, and labored as devotedly as if the whole world could see and praise them,
as indeed has since been done. His pictures in this convent are so numerous that we must not
describe them, but will say that the Crucifixion in the chapter-room is usually called his
masterpiece. It is nearly twenty-five feet square, and, besides the usual figures in this subject,
the Saviour and the thieves, with the executioners, there are holy women, the founders of various
orders, the patrons of the convent, and companies of saints. In the frame there are medallions
with several saints and a Sibyl, each bearing an inscription from the prophecies relating to
Christ's death; while below all, St. Dominic, the founder of the artist's order, bears a genealogical
tree with many portraits of those who had been eminent among his followers. For this reason
this picture has great historic value.

At last, in 1445, Pope Eugenius IV., who had dedicated the new convent of San Marco and seen
the works of Angelico, summoned him to Rome. It is said that the Pope not only wished for some
of his paintings, but he also desired to honor Angelico by giving him the archbishopric of
Florence; but when this high position was offered him, Fra Angelico would not accept of it:
he declared himself unequal to its duties, and begged the Pope to appoint Fra Antonino in his
stead. This request was granted, and Angelico went on with his work as before, in all humility
fulfilling his heaven-born mission to lead men to better lives through the sweet influence
of his divine art.

The honor which had been tendered him was great--one which the noblest men were striving for--but
if he realized this he did not regret his decision, neither was he made bold or vain by the
royal tribute which the Pope had paid him.

From this time the most important works of Fra Angelico were done in the chapel of Pope Nicholas
V., in the Vatican, and in the chapel which he decorated in the Cathedral of Orvieto. He worked
there one summer, and the work was continued by Luca Signorelli. The remainder of his life
was passed so quietly that little can be told of it. It is not even known with certainty whether
he ever returned to Florence, and by some strange fate the key to the chapel which he painted
in the Vatican was lost during two centuries, and the pictures could only be seen by entering
through a window. Thus it would seem that his last years were passed in the quiet work which
he best loved.

When his final illness was upon him, the brethren of Santa Maria Sopra Minerva, where he resided,
gathered about him, and chanted the Salve Regina. He died on the 18th of February, 1455, when
sixty-seven years old. His tombstone is in the church of Santa Maria Sopra Minerva, in Rome;
on it lies the figure of a Dominican monk in marble. Pope Nicholas V. wrote his epitaph in
Latin. The following translation is by Professor Norton:

      "Not mine be the praise that I was a second Apelles,
       But that I gave all my gains to thine, O Christ!
       One work is for the earth, another for heaven.
       The city, the Flower of Tuscany, bore me--John."

In the Convent of San Marco in Florence there are twenty-five pictures by this master; in the
Academy of Florence there are about sixty; there are eleven in the chapel of Nicholas V., and
still others in the Vatican gallery. The Church of Santa Maria Novella, Florence, the Cathedral
of Orvieto, the Church of St. Domenico in Perugia, and that of Cortona, are all rich in his
works. Besides these a few exist in some of the principal European galleries; but I love best
to see them in San Marco, where he painted them for his brethren, and where they seem most at home.

The chief merit of the pictures of Fra Angelico is the sweet and tender expression of the faces
of his angels and saints, or any beings who are holy and good; he never succeeded in painting
evil and sin in such a way as to terrify one; his gentle nature did not permit him to represent
that which it could not comprehend, and the very spirit of purity seems to breathe through
every picture.

Two other Florentine artists of the same era with Fra Angelico were MASOLINO, whose real name
was PANICALE, and TOMMASO GUIDI, called MASACCIO on account of his want of neatness. The style
of these two masters was much the same, but Masaccio became so much the greater that little
is said of Masolino. The principal works of Masaccio are a series of frescoes in the Brancacci
Chapel in Florence. They represent "The Expulsion from Paradise," "The Tribute Money," "Peter
Baptizing," "Peter Curing the Blind and Lame," "The Death of Ananias," "Simon Magus," and the
"Resuscitation of the King's Son." There is a fresco by Masolino in the same chapel; it is
"The Preaching of Peter." Masaccio was in fact a remarkable painter. Some one has said that
he seemed to hold Giotto by one hand, and reach forward to Raphael with the other; and considering
the pictures which were painted before his time, his works are as wonderful as Raphael's are
beautiful. He died in 1429.

PAOLO UCCELLO (1396-1479) and FILIPPO LIPPI (1412-1469) were also good painters, and SANDRO
BOTTICELLI (1447-1515), a pupil of Filippo, was called the best Florentine painter of his time.
FILLIPINO LIPPI (1460-1505) was a pupil of Botticelli and a very important artist. ANDREA VERROCCHIO,
LORENZO DI CREDI, and ANTONIO POLLAJUOLO were all good painters of the Florentine school of
the last half of the fifteenth century.

Of the same period was DOMENICO GHIRLANDAJO (1449-1494), who ranks very high on account of
his skill in the composition of his works and as a colorist. He made his pictures very interesting
also to those of his own time, and to those of later days, by introducing portraits of certain
citizens of Florence into pictures which he painted in the Church of Santa Maria Novella and
other public places in the city. He did not usually make them actors in the scene he represented,
but placed them in detached groups as if they were looking at the picture themselves. While
his scenes were laid in the streets known to us, and his architecture was familiar, he did
not run into the fantastic or lose the picturesque effect which is always pleasing. Without
being one of the greatest of the Italian masters Ghirlandajo was a very important painter.
He was also a teacher of the great Michael Angelo.

Other prominent Florentine painters of the close of the fifteenth century were FRANCISCO GRANACCI
(1477-1543), LUCA SIGNORELLI (1441-1521), BENOZZO GOZZOLI (1424-1485), and COSIMO ROSSELLI
(1439-1506).

Some good painters worked in Venice from the last half of the fourteenth century; but I shall
begin to speak of the Venetian school with some account of the Bellini. The father of this
family was JACOPO BELLINI (1395-1470), and his sons were GENTILE BELLINI (1421-1507) and GIOVANNI
BELLINI (1426-1516).

The sketch-book of the father is one of the treasures of the British Museum. It has 99 pages,
17 by 13 inches in size, and contains sketches of almost everything--still and animal life,
nature, ancient sculpture, buildings and human figures, stories of the Scriptures, of mythology,
and of the lives of the saints are all illustrated in its sketches, as well as hawking parties,
village scenes, apes, eagles, dogs, and cats. In this book the excellence of his drawing is
seen; but so few of his works remain that we cannot judge of him as a colorist. It is certain
that he laid the foundation of the excellence of the Venetian school, which his son Giovanni
and the great Titian carried to perfection.

The elder son, Gentile, was a good artist, and gained such a reputation by his pictures in
the great council-chamber of Venice, that when, in 1479, Sultan Mehemet, the conqueror of Constantinople,
sent to Venice for a good painter, the Doge sent to him Gentile Bellini. With him he sent two
assistants, and gave him honorable conduct in galleys belonging to the State. In Constantinople
Gentile was much honored, and he painted the portraits of many remarkable people. At length
it happened that when he had finished a picture of the head of John the Baptist in a charger,
and showed it to the Sultan, that ruler said that the neck was not well painted, and when he
saw that Gentile did not agree with him he called a slave and had his head instantly struck
off, to prove to the artist what would be the true action of the muscles under such circumstances.
This act made Gentile unwilling to remain near the Sultan, and after a year in his service
he returned home. Mehemet, at parting, gave him many gifts, and begged him to ask for whatever
would best please him. Gentile asked but for a letter of praise to the Doge and Signoria of
Venice. After his return to Venice he worked much in company with his brother. It is said that
Titian studied with Gentile: it is certain that he was always occupied with important commissions,
and worked until the day of his death, when he was more than eighty years old.

But Giovanni Bellini was the greatest of his family, and must stand as the founder of true
Venetian painting. His works may be divided into two periods, those that were done before,
and those after he learned the use of oil colors. His masterpieces, which can still be seen
in the Academy and the churches of Venice, were painted after he was sixty-five years old.
The works of Giovanni Bellini are numerous in Venice, and are also seen in the principal galleries
of Europe. He did not paint a great variety of subjects, neither was his imagination very poetical,
but there was a moral beauty in his figures; he seems to have made humanity as elevated as
it can be, and to have stopped just on the line which separates earthly excellence from the
heavenly. This old adage am suggesting that as a result of Imperfection
of human nature, the merit of eminent men often receive less is, as its importance to should be. Most
people can not just rise above the mundane and to follow the thoughts fly far-final contemporaries.
Envy and resentment were raised against the majors this earth, and the rivalry of competitors,
all the pull down and shrink. In the struggle for the conquest of the air we have two excellent
had cases of how capable they are only pioneers laboriously struggle through to recognition. We have here
but also a rare example of how two men still alive at the greatest recognition of their contemporaries
have found. The thought of the conquest of the Air is so impressive that he in the broadest
layers of the peoples of all outstanding Share place. So far dominated the man only two dimensions.
Now he has also begun the third dimension, to conquer the air. Zeppelin and Wright are the kings
of the air. It is thanks to you both, that we begin the air with both vehicles, "light than the
air, "as well as those that" heavier than air "to dominate. Both have to work long hours, until
they prove to the world the accuracy of their thoughts in flight could. Both are much reviled
and pelted with dirt was. The name is Zeppelin Today not only the German people know he has
great sound anywhere. Everywhere devoted to the aged researchers worship how they the greatest
heroes of all time has hardly met with. Wright also we Europeans have sinned much.
 His true name was Francisco
di Marco Raibolini, and he was a goldsmith of repute before he was a painter. He was also master
of the mint to the Bentivoglio and to Pope Julius II. at Bologna. It is not possible to say
when he began to paint; but his earliest known work is dated 1490 or 1494, and is in the Gallery
of Bologna. His pictures resemble those of Perugino and Raphael, and it is said that he died
of sorrow because he felt himself so inferior to the great painter of Urbino. Raphael sent
his St. Cecilia to Francia, and asked him to care for it and see it hung in its place; he did
so, but did not live long after this. It is well known that these two masters were good friends
and corresponded, but it is not certain that they ever met. Francia's pictures are numerous;
his portraits are excellent. Many of his works are still in Bologna.

We come now to one of the most celebrated masters of Italy, LEONARDO DA VINCI (1452-1519),
the head of the Lombard or Milanese school. He was not the equal of the great masters, Michael
Angelo, Raphael, and Titian; but he stands between them and the painters who preceded him or
those of his own day.

In some respects, however, he was the most extraordinary man of his time. His talents were
many-sided; for he was not only a great artist, but also a fine scholar in mathematics and
mechanics; he wrote poetry and composed music, and was with all this so attractive personally,
and so brilliant in his manner, that he was a favorite wherever he went. It is probable that
this versatility prevented his being very great in any one thing, while he was remarkable in
many things.

When still very young Leonardo showed his artistic talent. The paper upon which he worked out
his sums was frequently bordered with little pictures which he drew while thinking on his lessons,
and these sketches at last attracted his father's attention, and he showed them to his friend
Andrea Verrocchio, an artist of Florence, who advised that the boy should become a painter.
Accordingly, in 1470, when eighteen years old, Leonardo was placed under the care of Verrocchio,
who was like a kind father to his pupils: he was not only a painter, but also an architect
and sculptor, a musician and a geometer, and he especially excelled in making exquisite cups
of gold and silver, crucifixes and statuettes such as were in great demand for the use of the
priesthood in those days.

Pietro Perugino was a fellow-pupil with Leonardo, and they two soon surpassed their master
in painting, and at last, when Verrocchio was painting a picture for the monks of Vallambrosa,
and desired Leonardo to execute an angel in it, the work of his pupil was so much better than
his own that the old painter desired to throw his brush aside forever. The picture is now in
the Academy of Florence, and represents "The Baptism of Christ." With all his refinement and
sweetness, Leonardo had a liking for the horrible. It once happened that a countryman brought
to his father a circular piece of wood cut from a fig-tree, and desired to have it painted
for a shield; it was handed over to Leonardo, who collected in his room a number of lizards,
snakes, bats, hedgehogs, and other frightful creatures, and from these painted an unknown monster
having certain characteristics of the horrid things he had about him. The hideous creature
was surrounded by fire, and was breathing out flames. When his father saw it he ran away in
a fright, and Leonardo was greatly pleased at this. The countryman received an ordinary shield,
and this Rotello del Fico (or shield of fig-tree wood) was sold to a merchant for one hundred
ducats, and again to the Duke of Milan for three times that sum. This shield has now been lost
for more than three centuries; but another horror, the "Medusa's Head," is in the Uffizi Gallery
in Florence, and is a head surrounded by interlacing serpents, the eyes being glassy and deathlike
and the mouth most revolting in expression.

While in Florence Leonardo accomplished much, but was at times diverted from his painting by
his love of science, sometimes making studies in astronomy and again in natural history and
botany; he also went much into society, and lived extravagantly. He had the power to remember
faces that he had seen accidentally, and could make fine portraits from memory; he was also
accustomed to invite to his house people from the lower classes; he would amuse them while
he sketched their faces, making good portraits at times, and again ridiculous caricatures.
He even went so far, for the sake of his art, as to accompany criminals to the place of execution,
in order to study their expressions.

After a time Leonardo wished to secure some fixed income, and wrote to the Duke of Milan, Ludovico
Sforza, called Il Moro, offering his services to that prince. This resulted in his going to
Milan, where he received a generous salary, and became very popular with the Duke and all the
court, both as a painter and as a gentleman. The Duke governed as the regent for his young
nephew, and gathered about him talented men for the benefit of the young prince. He also led
a gay life, and his court was the scene of constant festivities. Leonardo's varied talents
were very useful to the Duke; he could assist him in everything--by advice at his council,
by plans for adorning his city, by music and poetry in his leisure hours, and by painting the
portraits of his favorites. Some of these last are now famous pictures--that of Lucrezia Crevelli
is believed to be in the Louvre at Paris, where it is called "La Belle Ferronière."

The Duke conferred a great honor on Leonardo by choosing him to be the founder and director
of an academy which he had long wished to establish. It was called the "Academia Leonardi Vinci,"
and had for its purpose the bringing together of distinguished artists and men of letters. Even
    the pharmacist William Foots was greater for technology Understanding
    and gave us some valuable information, while the Engineer Laura Wright
    but the fact of the flights confirmed in but any other information
    about the appearance of the machine refused.
    

    "Finally we managed to have two very important people to Speakers:
    CV Ellis, higher court officials, and Torrence Huffman, President of
    the largest bank in the city. The conversation with this people respected
    us was particularly valuable because we received from them information
    about the reasons why in America is no longer nature of the major
    successes of the Wright has been made. After the first would probably
    successful flights, the Brothers, a large number of people invited to
    visit, the Bring out from the shed was damaged but the airship been,
    and so were the attempts were abandoned. The disappointed audience
    was from then on the matter a great distrust would be preferable
    however, since the Wrights would have no one invited and the timing
    of further practical experiments kept secret. The Bank President
    also said that he saw the practical value of the machine is
    not one, above all, it appears to him as a big mistake that they
    are only of a long rail tracks could fly up. "
    
    Here are some design details back then, and then closes the report:

"The
experiments on a rectangular, tree-and a Shed surrounded meadow taken
place by a perimeter around one mile (1.6 kilometers) has.

In the longest flight, this field been flying around about 30 times.

    The flights are both in calm Weather has been performed as well
    in strong winds.
    
    "I think almost the fact of the existence of the first tried flying
    machine probably no one can seriously dispute; It is impossible that
so many respected people in the different professions and classes
of different ages should have agreed to an inventor for the sake of
the Blue Front Herunterzulügen sky.

    With such a long 'interrogation', which after previously set program
    has been carefully made, would have they must engage in some contradictions.
    Whether in other remarks that I visited for lack of time
    only 10 people have, almost every one I had named other witnesses
    made. But why refuse the Wright brothers, their Flyer potential
    buyers before the purchase in the open Flights to demonstrate?
    If they really achieved great successes have, but they had not had
    the daylight to spare!
    
    "And this I believe I have found a plausible answer. The plane is
    just so simple that they are concerned that the buyer used to visit
    such a high sum, like a million Dollar to. Also, I think that a very
    large exercise to is to keep the flying machine.
    

    "It is not every airship be able immediately to drive off, but it is
    great skill to the the Wright brothers before gliding through
    its many had acquired.
     Leonardo must have
loved the picture himself, and it is not strange that he lavished more time upon it than he
gave to the great picture of the Last Supper (Fig. 37).

Leonardo sold this picture to Francis I. for nine thousand dollars, which was then an enormous
sum, though now one could scarcely fix a price upon it. In 1860 the Emperor of Russia paid
twelve thousand dollars for a St. Sebastian by Leonardo, and in 1865 a madonna by him was sold
in Paris for about sixteen thousand dollars. Of course his pictures are rarely sold; but, when
they are, great sums are given for them.

In 1502 Cæsar Borgia appointed Leonardo his engineer and sent him to travel through Central
Italy to inspect his fortresses; but this usurper soon fled to Spain, and in 1503 our painter
was again in Florence. In 1504 his father died. From 1507 to 1512 Leonardo was at the summit
of his greatness. Louis XII. appointed him his painter, and he labored for this monarch also
to improve the water-works of Milan. For seven years he dwelt at Milan, making frequent journeys
to Florence. But the political troubles of the time made Lombardy an uncongenial home for any
artist, and Leonardo, with a few pupils, went to Florence and then on to Rome. Pope Leo X.
received him cordially enough, and told him to "work for the glory of God, Italy, Leo X., and
Leonardo da Vinci." But Leonardo was not happy in Rome, where Michael Angelo and Raphael were
in great favor, and when Francis I. made his successes in Italy in 1515, Leonardo hastened
to Lombardy to meet him. The new king of France restored him to the office to which Louis XII.
had appointed him, and gave him an annual pension of seven hundred gold crowns.

When Francis returned to France he desired to cut out the wall on which the Last Supper was
painted, and carry it to his own country: this proved to be impossible, and it is much to be
regretted, as it is probable that if it could have been thus removed it would have been better
preserved. However, not being able to take the artist's great work, the king took Leonardo
himself, together with his favorite pupils and friends and his devoted servant. In France,
Leonardo was treated with consideration. He resided near Amboise, where he could mingle with
the court. It is said that, old though he was, he was so much admired that the courtiers imitated
his dress and the cut of his beard and hair. He was given the charge of all artistic matters
in France, and doubtless Francis hoped that he would found an Academy as he had done at Milan.
But he seems to have left all his energy, all desire for work, on the Italian side of the Alps.
He made a few plans; but he brought no great thing to pass, and soon his health failed, and
he fell into a decline. He gave great attention to religious matters, received the sacrament,
and then made his will, and put his worldly affairs in order.

The king was accustomed to visit him frequently, and on the last day of his life, when the
sovereign entered the room, Leonardo desired to be raised up as a matter of respect to the
king: sitting, he conversed of his sufferings, and lamented that he had done so little for
God and man. Just then he was seized with an attack of pain--the king rose to support him,
and thus, in the arms of Francis, the great master breathed his last. This has sometimes been
doubted; but the modern French critics agree with the ancient writers who give this account
of his end.

He was buried in the Church of St. Florentin at Amboise, and it is not known that any monument
was erected over him. In 1808 the church was destroyed; in 1863 Arsine Houssaye, with others,
made a search for the grave of Leonardo, and it is believed that his remains were found. In
1873 a noble monument was erected in Milan to the memory of Da Vinci. It is near the entrance
to the Arcade of Victor Emmanuel: the statue of the master stands on a high pedestal in a thoughtful
attitude, the head bowed down and the arms crossed on the breast. Below are other statues and
rich bas-reliefs, and one inscription speaks of him as the "Renewer of the Arts and Sciences."

Many of his writings are in the libraries of Europe in manuscript form: his best known work
is the "Trattato della Pittura," and has been translated into English. As an engineer his canal
of Mortesana was enough to give him fame; as an artist he may be called the "Poet of Painters,"
and, if those who followed him surpassed him, it should be remembered that it is easier to
advance in a path once opened than to discover a new path. Personally he was much beloved,
and, though he lived when morals were at a low estimate, he led a proper and reputable life.
His pictures were pure in their spirit, and he seemed only to desire the progress of art and
science, and it is a pleasure to read and learn of him, as it is to see his works.

Other good artists of the Lombard school in the fifteenth century were BERNARDINO LUINI (about
1460-1530), who was the best pupil of Leonardo, GIOVANNI ANTONIO BELTRAFFIO (1467-1516), GAUDENZIO
FARRARI (1484-1549), AMBROGIO BORGOGNONE (works dated about 1500), and ANDREA SOLARIO, whose
age is not known.

We return now to the Florentine school at a time when the most remarkable period of its existence
was about to begin. We shall speak first of FRA BARTOLOMMEO or BACCIO DELLA PORTA, also called
IL FRATE (1469-1517). He was born at Savignano, and studied at Florence under Cosimo Rosselli,
but was much influenced by the works of Leonardo da Vinci. This painter became famous for the
beauty of his pictures of the Madonna, and at the time when the great Savonarola went to Florence
Bartolommeo was employed in the Convent of San Marco, where the preacher lived. The artist
became the devoted friend of the preacher, and, when the latter was seized, tortured, and burned,
Bartolommeo became a friar, and left his pictures to be finished by his pupil Albertinelli.
For four years he lived the most austere life, and did not touch his brush: then his superior
commanded him to resume his art; but the painter had no interest in it. About this time Raphael
sought him out, and became his friend; he also instructed the monk in perspective, and in turn
Raphael learned from him, for Fra Bartolommeo was the first artist who used lay figures in
arranging his draperies; he also told Raphael some secrets of colors.

About 1513 Bartolommeo went to Rome, and after his return to his convent he began what promised
to be a wonderful artistic career; but he only lived four years more, and the amount of his
work was so small that his pictures are now rare. His madonnas, saints, and angels are holy
in their effect; his representations of architecture are grand, and while his works are not
strong or powerful, they give much pleasure to those who see them.

MICHAEL ANGELO BUONARROTI was born at the Castle of Caprese in 1475. His father, who was of
a noble family of Florence, was then governor of Caprese and Chiusi, and, when the Buonarroti
household returned to Florence, the little Angelo was left with his nurse on one of his father's
estates at Settignano. The father and husband of his nurse were stone-masons, and thus in infancy
the future artist was in the midst of blocks of stone and marble and the implements which he
later used with so much skill. For many years rude sketches were shown upon the walls of the
nurse's house made by her baby charge, and he afterward said that he imbibed a love for marble
with his earliest food.

At the proper age Angelo was taken to Florence and placed in school; but he spent his time
mostly in drawing, and having made the acquaintance of Francesco Granacci, at that time a pupil
with Ghirlandajo, he borrowed from him designs and materials by which to carry on his beloved
pursuits. Michael Angelo's desire to become an artist was violently opposed by his father and
his uncles, for they desired him to be a silk and woollen merchant, and sustain the commercial
reputation of the family. But so determined was he that finally his father yielded, and in
1488 placed him in the studio of Ghirlandajo. Here the boy of thirteen worked with great diligence;
he learned how to prepare colors and to lay the groundwork of frescoes, and he was set to copy
drawings. Very soon he wearied of this, and began to make original designs after his own ideas.
At one time he corrected a drawing of his master's: when he saw this, sixty years later, he
said, "I almost think that I knew more of art in my youth than I do in my old age."

When Michael Angelo went to Ghirlandajo, that master was employed on the restoration of the
choir of Santa Maria Novella, so that the boy came at once into the midst of important work.
One day he drew a picture of the scaffolding and all that belonged to it, with the painters
at work thereon: when his master saw it he exclaimed, "He already understands more than I do
myself." This excellence in the scholar roused the jealousy of the master, as well as of his
other pupils, and it was a relief to Michael Angelo when, in answer to a request from Lorenzo
de Medici, he and Francesco Granacci were named by Ghirlandajo as his two most promising scholars,
and were then sent to the Academy which the duke had established. The art treasures which Lorenzo
gave for the use of the students were arranged in the gardens of San Marco, and here, under
the instruction of the old Bertoldo, Angelo forgot painting in his enthusiasm for sculpture.
He first copied the face of a faun; but he changed it somewhat, and opened the mouth so that
the teeth could be seen. When Lorenzo visited the garden he praised the work, but said, "You
have made your faun so old, and yet you have left him all his teeth; you should have known
that at such an advanced age there are generally some wanting." The next time he came there
was a gap in the teeth, and so well done that he was delighted. This work is now in the Uffizi
Gallery.

Lorenzo now sent for the father of Angelo, and asked that the son might live in the Medici
palace under his own care. Somewhat reluctantly the father consented, and the duke gave him
an office in the custom-house. From this time for three years, Angelo sat daily at the duke's
table, and was treated as one of his own family; he was properly clothed, and had an allowance
of five ducats a month for pocket-money. It was the custom with Lorenzo to give an entertainment
every day; he took the head of the table, and whoever came first had a seat next him. It often
happened that Michael Angelo had this place. Lorenzo was the head of Florence, and Florence
was the head of art, poetry, and all scholarly thought. Thus, in the home of the Medici, the
young artist heard learned talk upon all subjects of interest; he saw there all the celebrated
men who lived in the city or visited it, and his life so near Lorenzo, for a thoughtful youth,
as he was, amounted to an education.

The society of Florence at this time was not of a high moral tone, and in the year in which
Michael Angelo entered the palace, a monk called Savonarola came to Florence to preach against
the customs and the crimes of the city. Michael Angelo was much affected by this, and throughout
his long life remembered Savonarola with true respect and affection, and his brother, Leonardo
Buonarroti, was so far influenced that he withdrew from the world and became a Dominican monk.

Michael Angelo's diligence was great; he not only studied sculpture, but he found time to copy
some of the fine old frescoes in the Church of the Carmine. He gave great attention to the
study of anatomy, and he was known throughout the city for his talents, and for his pride and
bad temper. He held himself aloof from his fellow-pupils, and one day, in a quarrel with Piètro
Torrigiano, the latter gave Angelo a blow and crushed his nose so badly that he was disfigured
for life. Torrigiano was banished for this offence and went to England; he ended his life in
a Spanish prison.

In the spring of 1492 Lorenzo de Medici died. Michael Angelo was deeply grieved at the loss
of his best friend; he left the Medici palace, and opened a studio in his father's house, where
he worked diligently for two years, making a statue of Hercules and two madonnas. After two
years there came a great snow-storm, and Piero de Medici sent for the artist to make a snow
statue in his court-yard. He also invited Michael Angelo to live again in the palace, and the
invitation was accepted; but all was so changed there that he embraced the first opportunity
to leave, and during a political disturbance fled from the city with two friends, and made
his way to Venice. There he met the noble Aldovrandi of Bologna, who invited the sculptor to
his home, where he remained about a year, and then returned to his studio in Florence.

Soon after this he made a beautiful, sleeping Cupid, and when the young Lorenzo de Medici saw
it he advised Michael Angelo to bury it in the ground for a season, and thus make it look like
an antique marble; after this was done, Lorenzo sent it to Rome and sold it to the Cardinal
Riario, and gave the sculptor thirty ducats. In some way the truth of the matter reached the
ears of the Cardinal, who sent his agent to Florence to find the artist. When Michael Angelo
heard that two hundred ducats had been paid for his Cupid, he knew that he had been deceived.
The Cardinal's agent invited him to go to Rome, and he gladly went. The oldest existing writing
from the hand of Michael Angelo is the letter which he wrote to Lorenzo to inform him of his
arrival in Rome. He was then twenty-one years old, and spoke with joy of all the beautiful
things he had seen.

Not long after he reached Rome he made the statue of the "Drunken Bacchus," now in the Uffizi
Gallery, and then the Virgin Mary sitting near the place of the cross and holding the body
of the dead Christ. The art-term for this subject is "La Pietà." From the time that Michael
Angelo made this beautiful work he was the first sculptor of the world, though he was but twenty-four
years old. The Pietà was placed in St. Peter's Church, where it still remains. The next year
he returned to Florence. He was occupied with both painting and sculpture, and was soon employed
on his "David," one of his greatest works. This statue weighed eighteen thousand pounds, and
its removal from the studio in which it was made to the place where it was to stand, next the
gate of the Palazzo Vecchio, was a difficult undertaking. It was at last put in place on May
18, 1504; there it remained until a few years ago, when, on account of its crumbling from the
effect of the weather, it was removed to the Academy of Fine Arts by means of a railroad built
for the purpose.

About this time a rivalry sprang up between Michael Angelo and Leonardo da Vinci. They were
very unlike in their characters and mode of life. Michael Angelo was bitter, ironical, and
liked to be alone; Leonardo loved to be gay and to see the world; Michael Angelo lived so that
when he was old he said, "Rich as I am, I have always lived like a poor man;" Leonardo enjoyed
luxury, and kept a fine house, with horses and servants. They had entered into a competition
which was likely to result in serious trouble, when Pope Julius II. summoned Michael Angelo
to Rome. The Pope gave him an order to build him a splendid tomb; but the enemies of the sculptor
made trouble for him, and one morning he was refused admission to the Pope's palace. He then
left Rome, sending this letter to the Pope: "Most Holy Father, I was this morning driven from
the palace by the order of your Holiness. If you require me in future you can seek me elsewhere
than at Rome."

Then he went to Florence, and the Pope sent for him again and again; but he did not go. Meantime
he finished his design, and received the commission that he and Leonardo had striven for, which
was to decorate the hall of the Grand Council with pictures. At last, in 1506, the Pope was
in Bologna, and again sent for Michael Angelo. He went, and was forgiven for his offence, and
received an order for a colossal statue of the Pope in bronze. When this was finished in 1508,
and put before the Church of St. Petronio, Michael Angelo returned to Florence. He had not
made friends in Bologna; his forbidding manner did not encourage others to associate with him;
but we now know from his letters that he had great trials. His family was poor, and all relied
on him; indeed, his life was full of care and sadness.

In 1508 he was again summoned to Rome by the Pope, who insisted that he should paint the ceiling
of the Sistine Chapel, in the Vatican. Michael Angelo did not wish to do this, as he had done
no great painting. It proved to be one of his most famous works; but he had a great deal of
trouble in it. On one occasion the Pope threatened to throw the artist from the scaffolding.
The Pope complained also that the pictures looked poor; to this the artist replied: "They are
only poor people whom I have painted there, and did not wear gold on their garments." His subjects
were from the Bible. When the artist would have a leave of absence to go to Florence, the Pope
got so angry that he struck him; but, in spite of all, this great painting was finished in
1512. Grimm, in his life of Michael Angelo, says: "It needed the meeting of these two men;
in the one such perseverance in requiring, and in the other such power of fulfilling, to produce
this monument of human art."

It is impossible here to follow, step by step, the life and works of this master. Among the
other great things which he did are the tomb of Julius II. in the Church of S. Pietro in Vincoli,
in Rome, of which the famous statue of Moses makes a part (Fig. 40).

He made the statues in the Medici Chapel in the Church of San Lorenzo, in Florence, the painting
of the Last Judgment on a wall of the Sistine Chapel, and many works as an architect; for he
was called upon to attend to fortifications both in Florence and Rome, and at last, as his
greatest work of this sort, he was the architect of St. Peter's at Rome. Many different artists
had had a share in this work; but as it now is Michael Angelo may be counted as its real architect.
His works are numerous and only a small part of them is here mentioned; but I have spoken of
those by which he is most remembered. His life, too, was a stormy one for many reasons that
we have not space to tell. While he lived there were wars and great changes in Italy; he served
also under nine popes, and during his life thirteen men occupied the papal chair. Besides being
great as a painter, an architect, and a sculptor, he was a poet, and wrote sonnets well worthy
of such a genius as his. His whole life was so serious and sad that it gives one joy to know
that in his old age he formed an intimate friendship with Vittoria Colonna, a wonderful woman,
who made a sweet return to him for all the tender devotion which he lavished upon her.

Italians associate the name of Michael Angelo with those of the divine poet Dante and the painter
Raphael, and these three are spoken of as the three greatest men of their country in what are
called the modern days. Michael Angelo died at Rome in 1564, when eighty-nine years old. He
desired to be buried in Florence; but his friends feared to let this be known lest the Pope
should forbid his removal. He was therefore buried in the Church of the Holy Apostles; but
his nephew, Leonardo Buonarroti, conveyed his remains to Florence secretly, disguised as a
bale of merchandise. At Florence, on a Sunday night, his body was borne to Santa Croce, in
a torchlight procession, and followed by many thousands of citizens. There his friends once
more gazed upon the face which had not been seen in Florence for thirty years; he looked as
if quietly sleeping. Some days later a splendid memorial service was held in San Lorenzo, attended
by all the court, the artists, scholars, and eminent men of the city. An oration was pronounced;
rare statues and paintings were collected in the church; all the shops of the city were closed;
and the squares were filled with people.

Above his grave in Santa Croce, where he lies near Dante, Machiavelli, Galileo, and many other
great men, the Duke and Leonardo Buonarroti erected a monument. It has statues of Painting,
Sculpture, and Architecture, and a bust of the great man who sleeps beneath.

In the court of the Uffizi his statue stands together with those of other great Florentines.
His house in the Ghibelline Street now belongs to the city of Florence, and contains many treasured
mementoes of his life and works; it is open to all who wish to visit it. In 1875 a grand festival
was held in Florence to celebrate the four hundredth anniversary of his birth. The ceremonies
were very impressive, and at that time some documents which related to his life, and had never
been opened, were, by command of Victor Emmanuel, given to proper persons to be examined.

Thus it is that the great deeds of great men live on and on, through all time, and it is a
joy to know that though the fourscore and nine years of the life of this artist had much of
care and sorrow in them, his name and memory are still cherished, and must continue to be,
while from his life many lessons may be drawn to benefit and encourage others--lessons which
we cannot here write out; but they teach patience, industry, and faithfulness to duty, while
they also warn us to avoid the bitterness and roughness which are blemishes on the memory of
this great, good man.

DANIELE DE VOLTERRA (1509-1566) was the best scholar of Michael Angelo. His principal pictures
are the "Descent from the Cross," in the Church of Trinità di Monti, in Rome, and the "Massacre
of the Innocents," in the Uffizi Gallery; both are celebrated works.

The next important Florentine painter was ANDREA DEL SARTO (1488-1530). His family name was
Vannucchi; but because his father was a tailor, the Italian term for one of his trade, un sarto,
came to be used for the son. Early in life Andrea was a goldsmith, as were so many artists;
but, when he was able to study painting under Pietro di Cosimo, he became devoted to it, and
soon developed his own style, which was very soft and pleasing. His pictures cannot be called
great works of art, but they are favorites with a large number of people. He succeeded in fresco-painting,
and decorated several buildings in Florence, among them the Scalzo, which was a place where
the Barefooted Friars held their meetings, and was named from them, as they are called Scalzi.
These frescoes are now much injured; but they are thought his best works of this kind.

Probably Andrea del Sarto would have come to be a better painter if he had been a happier man.
His wife, of whom he was very fond, was a mean, selfish woman who wished only to make a great
show, and did not value her husband's talents except for the money which they brought him.
She even influenced him to desert his parents, to whom he had ever been a dutiful son. About
1518 Francis I., king of France, invited Andrea to Paris to execute some works for him. The
painter went, and was well established there and very popular, when his wife insisted that
he should return to Florence. Francis I. was very unwilling to spare him, but Andrea dared
not refuse to go to his wife; so he solemnly took an oath to return to Paris and bring his
wife, so that he could remain as long as pleased the king, and then that sovereign consented.
Francis also gave the artist a large sum of money to buy for him all sorts of beautiful objects.

When Andrea reached Florence his wife refused to go to France, and persuaded him to give her
the king's money. She soon spent it, and Andrea, who lived ten years more, was very unhappy,
while the king never forgave him, and to this day this wretched story must be told, and continues
the remembrance of his dishonesty. After all he had sacrificed for his wife, when he became
very ill, in 1530, of some contagious disease, she deserted him. He died alone, and with no
prayer or funeral was buried in the Convent of the Nunziata, where he had painted some of his
frescoes.

His pictures are very numerous; they are correct in drawing, very softly finished, and have
a peculiar gray tone of color. He painted a great number of Holy Families, one of which is
called the "Madonna del Sacco," because St. Joseph is leaning on a sack (Fig. 41). This is
in the convent where he is buried. His best work is called the "Madonna di San Francesco" and
hangs in the tribune of the Uffizi Gallery. This is a most honorable place, for near it are
pictures by Michael Angelo, Raphael, Titian, and other great painters, as well as some very
celebrated statues, such as the "Venus de Medici" and the "Dancing Faun." Andrea del Sarto's
pictures of the Madonna and Child are almost numberless; they are sweet, attractive works,
as are also his St. Barbara, St. Agnes, and others of his single figures.

We will now leave the Florentine school of the sixteenth century, and speak of the great master
of the Roman school, RAPHAEL SANZIO, or SANTI (1483-1520), who was born at Urbino on Good Friday.
His father was a painter, and Raphael showed his taste for art very early in life. Both his
parents died while he was still a child, and though he must have learned something from seeing
his father and other painters at their work, we say that Perugino was his first master, for
he was but twelve years old when he entered the studio of that painter in Perugia.

Here he remained more than eight years, and about the time of leaving painted the very celebrated
picture called "Lo Sposalizio," or the Marriage of the Virgin, now in the Brera at Milan. This
picture is famous the world over, and is very important in the life of the painter, because
it shows the highest point he reached under Perugino, or during what is called his first manner
in painting. Before this he had executed a large number of beautiful pictures, among which
was the so-called "Staffa Madonna." This is a circular picture and represents the Virgin walking
in a springtime landscape. It remained in the Staffa Palace in Perugia three hundred and sixty-eight
years, and in 1871 was sold to the Emperor of Russia for seventy thousand dollars.

In 1504 Raphael returned to Urbino, where he became the favorite of the court, and was much
employed by the ducal family. To this time belong the "St. George Slaying the Dragon" and the
"St. Michael Attacking Satan," now in the gallery of the Louvre. But the young artist soon
grew weary of the narrowness of his life, and went to Florence, where, amid the treasures of
art with which that city was crowded, he felt as if he was in an enchanted land. It is worth
while to recount the wonderful things he saw; they were the cathedral with the dome of Brunelleschi,
the tower of Giotto, the marbles and bronzes of Donatello, the baptistery gates of Ghiberti,
the pictures of Masaccio, Ghirlandajo, Fra Angelico, and many other older masters, while Michael
Angelo and Leonardo were surprising themselves and all others with their beautiful works.

At this time the second manner of Raphael begun. During his first winter here he painted the
so-called "Madonna della Gran Duca," now in the Pitti Gallery, and thus named because the Grand
Duke of Tuscany, Ferdinand III., carried it with him on all his journeys, and said his prayers
before it at morning and evening. He made a visit to Urbino in 1505, and wherever he was he
worked continually, and finished a great number of pictures, which as yet were of religious
subjects with few and unimportant exceptions.

When he returned to Florence in 1506, the cartoon of Leonardo da Vinci's "Battle of the Standard"
and Michael Angelo's "Bathing Soldiers" revealed a new world of art to Raphael. He saw that
heroic, exciting scenes could be represented by painting, and that vigor and passion could
speak from the canvas as powerfully as Christian love and resignation. Still he did not attempt
any new thing immediately. In Florence he moved in the best circles. He received orders for
some portraits of nobles and wealthy men, as well as for madonnas and Holy Families. Before
long he visited Bologna, and went again to Urbino, which had become a very important city under
the reign of Duke Guidobaldo. The king of England, Henry VIII., had sent to this duke the decoration
of the Order of the Garter. In return for this honor, the duke sent the king rich gifts, among
which was a picture of St. George and the Dragon by Raphael.

While at Urbino, at this time, he painted his first classic subject, the "Three Graces." Soon
after, he returned the third time to Florence, and now held much intercourse with Fra Bartolommeo,
who gave the younger artist valuable instruction as to his color and drapery. In 1508, among
a great number of pictures he painted the madonna which is called "La Belle Jardinière," and
is now one of the treasures of the Louvre. The Virgin is pictured in the midst of a flowery
landscape, and it has been said that a beautiful flower-girl to whom Raphael was attached was
his model for the picture. This picture is also a landmark in the history of Raphael, for it
shows the perfection of his second manner, and the change that had come over him from his Florentine
experience and associations. His earlier pictures had been full of a sweet, unearthly feeling,
and a color which could be called spiritual was spread over them; now his madonnas were like
beautiful, earthly mothers, his colors were deep and rich, and his landscapes were often replaced
by architectural backgrounds which gave a stately air where all before had been simplicity.
His skill in grouping, in color, and in drapery was now marvellous, and when in 1508 the Pope,
who had seen some of his works, summoned him to Rome, he went, fully prepared for the great
future which was before him, and now began his third, or Roman manner of painting.

This pope was Julius II., who held a magnificent court and was ambitious for glory in every
department of life--as a temporal as well as a spiritual ruler, and as a patron of art and
letters as well as in his office of the Protector of the Holy Church. He had vast designs for
the adornment of Rome, and immediately employed Raphael in the decoration of the first of the
Stanze, or halls of the Vatican, four of which he ornamented with magnificent frescoes before
his death. He also executed wall-paintings in the Chigi Palace, and in a chapel of the Church
of Santa Maria della Pace.

With the exception of a short visit to Florence, Raphael passed the remainder of his life in
Rome. The amount of work which he did as an architect, sculptor, and painter was marvellous,
and would require the space of a volume to follow it, and name all his achievements, step by
step, so I shall only tell you of some of his best-known works and those which are most often
mentioned.

While he was working upon the halls of the Vatican Julius II. died. He was succeeded by Leo
X., who also was a generous patron to Raphael, who thus suffered no loss of occupation from
the change of popes. The artist became very popular and rich; he had many pupils, and was assisted
by them in his great frescoes, not only in the Vatican, but also in the Farnesina Villa or
Chigi Palace. Raphael had the power to attach men to him with devoted affection, and his pupils
gave him personal service gladly; he was often seen in the street with numbers of them in attendance,
just as the nobles were followed by their squires and pages. He built himself a house in a
quarter of the city called the Borgo, not far from the Church of St. Peter's, and during the
remainder of his life was attended by prosperity and success.

One of the important works which he did for Leo X. was the making of cartoons, or designs to
be executed in tapestry for the decoration of the Sistine Chapel, where Michael Angelo had
painted his great frescoes. The Pope ordered these tapestries to be woven in the looms of Flanders,
from the richest materials, and a quantity of gold thread was used in them. They were completed
and sent to Rome in 1519, and were exhibited to the people the day after Christmas, when all
the city flocked to see them. In 1527, when the Constable de Bourbon allowed the French soldiers
to sack Rome, these tapestries were carried away. In 1553 they were restored; but one was missing,
and it is believed that it had been destroyed for the sake of the gold thread which was in
it. Again, in 1798, the French carried them away and sold them to a Jew in Leghorn, who burned
one of the pieces; but his gain in gold was so little that he preserved the others, and Pius
VII. bought them and restored them to the Vatican. The cartoons, however, are far more important
than the tapestries, because they are the work of Raphael himself. The weavers at Arras tossed
them aside after using them, and some were torn; but a century later the artist Rubens learned
that they existed, and advised King Charles I. of England to buy them. This he did, and thus
the cartoons met with as many ups and downs as the tapestries had had. When they reached England
they were in strips; the workmen had cut them for their convenience. After the king was executed
Cromwell bought the cartoons for three hundred pounds. When Charles II. was king and in great
need of money he was sorely tempted to sell them to Louis XIV., who coveted them, and wished
to add them to the treasures of France; but Lord Danby persuaded Charles to keep them. In 1698
they were barely saved from fire at Whitehall, and finally, by command of William III., they
were properly repaired and a room was built at Hampton Court to receive them, by the architect,
Sir Christopher Wren. At present they are in the South Kensington Museum, London. Of the original
eleven only seven remain.

Both Henry VIII. and Francis I. had received presents of pictures by Raphael: we have told
of the occasion when the St. George was sent to England. The "Archangel Michael" and the "Large
Holy Family of the Louvre" were given to Francis I. by Lorenzo de Medici, who sent them overland
on mules to the Palace of Fontainebleau. Francis was so charmed with these works that he presented
Raphael so large a sum that he was unwilling to accept it without sending the king still other
pictures; so he sent the sovereign another painting, and to the king's sister, Queen Margaret
of Navarre, he gave a picture of St. Margaret overcoming the dragon. Then Francis gave Raphael
many thanks and another rich gift of money. Besides this he invited Raphael to come to his
court, as did also the king of England; but the artist preferred to remain where he was already
so prosperous and happy.

About 1520 Raphael painted the famous Sistine Madonna, now the pride of the Dresden Gallery.
It is named from St. Sixtus, for whose convent, at Piacenza, it was painted: the picture of
this saint, too, is in the lower part of the picture, with that of St. Barbara. No sketch or
drawing of this work was ever found, and it is believed that the great artist, working as if
inspired, sketched it and finished it on the canvas where it is. It was originally intended
for a drappellone, or procession standard, but the monks used it for an altar-piece (Fig. 43).

While Raphael accomplished so much as a painter, he by no means gave all his time or thought
to a single art. He was made superintendent of the building of St. Peter's in 1514, and made
many architectural drawings for that church; he was also much interested in the excavations
of ancient Rome, and made immense numbers of drawings of various sorts. As a sculptor he made
models and designs, and there is in the Church of Santa Maria del Popolo, in Rome, a statue
of Jonah sitting on a whale, said to have been modelled by Raphael and put into marble by Lorenzetto
Latti.

Raphael was also interested in what was happening outside the world of art; he corresponded
with scholars of different countries, and sent men to make drawings of places and objects which
he could not go to see. He was also generous to those less fortunate than himself, and gave
encouragement and occupation to many needy men.

At one time he expected to marry Maria de Bibiena, a niece of Cardinal Bibiena; but she died
before the time for the marriage came.

While Raphael was making his great successes in Rome, other famous artists also were there,
and there came to be much discussion as to their merits, and especially as to the comparative
worth of Michael Angelo and Raphael. At last, when this feeling of rivalry was at its height,
the Cardinal Giulio de Medici, afterward Pope Clement VII., gave orders to Raphael and Sebastian
del Piombo to paint two large pictures for the Cathedral of Narbonne. The subject of Sebastian's
picture was the "Raising of Lazarus," and it has always been said that Michael Angelo made
the drawing for it.

Raphael's picture was the "Transfiguration," and proved to be his last work, for before it
was finished he was attacked by fever, and died on Good Friday, 1620, which was the thirty-seventh
anniversary of his birth. All Rome mourned for him; his body was laid in state, and the Transfiguration
was placed near it. Those who had known him went to weep while they gazed upon his face for
the last time.

He had chosen his grave in the Pantheon, near to that of Maria Bibiena, his betrothed bride.
The ceremonies of his burial were magnificent, and his body was followed by an immense throng
dressed in mourning. Above his tomb was placed an inscription in Latin, written by Pietro Bembo,
which has for its last sentence these words: "This is that Raphael by whom Nature feared to
be conquered while he lived, and to die when he died." Raphael had also requested Lorenzo Lorenzetti
to make a statue of the Virgin to be placed above his resting-place. He left a large estate,
and gave his works of art to his pupils Giulio Romano and Francesco Penni; his house to Cardinal
Bibiena; a sum to buy another house, the rent of which should pay for twelve masses to be said
monthly, for the repose of his soul, from the altar near his grave; this was observed until
1705, when the income from the house was not enough to support these services.

For many years there was a skull at the Academy of St. Luke, in Rome, which was called that
of Raphael; but there was no proof of this, and in 1833 some antiquarians received the consent
of the Pope to their searching for the bones of Raphael in his grave in the Pantheon. After
five days of careful work, and removing the pavement in several places, the skeleton of the
great master was found, and with it such proofs of its being his as left no room for doubt.
Then a second great funeral service was held; the Pope, Gregory XVI., gave a marble sarcophagus
in which the bones were placed, and reverently restored to their first resting-place. More
than three thousand persons were present at the service, including artists of all nations,
as well as Romans of the highest rank. They moved in procession about the church, bearing torches
in their hands, and keeping time to beautiful chants from an invisible choir.

Raphael left two hundred and eighty-seven pictures and five hundred and seventy-six studies
and drawings, and all done in so short a life. In considering him and the story of his life,
we find that it was not any one trait or talent that made his greatness; but it was the rare
union of gifts of genius with a personal charm that won all hearts to him. His famous picture
of "St. Cecilia," with its sweetness of expression and lovely color--its union of earthly beauty
with spiritual feeling, is a symbol of the harmonious and varied qualities of this prince of
painters (Fig. 44). 

"So? And probably back to the ballroom?" I asked.

"Well, where do otherwise?"

The ballroom was a public dance hall, where, the ancient enmity between to make students and
craftsmen are used to air at times.

It seemed this time, however, become bad to be, because tin was an
extremely strong hint of movement the fist.

"Who has he got?" I asked yet.

The old man held his hand over her mouth and whispered to me: "It has come to the right place . Doctor,
"A friend who heard our conversation, called the temporary:" It is the Raugraf, the nodes have
paid him to discount ".

The so-called "Raugraf" was just as nice as desert young man in the lecture halls Professors rare,
but often on the scale and to regularly visit the pub was, one of those that play a role in universities,
then in later life to disappear without a trace. Of the young artisans, whom he did alienate
their girls, he was hated as much as it for the greater number of younger students of the subject
was a shy admiration. After he visited a number of other universities and, in some cases had
forced relegation, disembarked, he thought fit to try ours, and soon went on his big change and
then by an even bigger debts most varied rumors in vogue.

The title "Raugraf" which he brought with him fit, so far for him, as he recalls the times of
the bully, and though the manner of the old Junker, who used the
weaker so ruthlessly consume for their passions been handed to him
seemed to have completely.

Since I Raugrafen neither precise nor an interest in his person was
also known as closed the window and I went to bed without commemorate
the incident further.

On the afternoon after, I should however be reminded again it .--
I had just drank my coffee and sat on the sofa over a Pandektenkontroverse
as the Stubentuer was knocked.

On my "Come in!" entered the stately figure of my friend Chris and some careful hesitantly into
the room.

"Are you alone?" he asked.

"As you, see Christopher."

He was silent a moment.

"I have to go from here, Philip," he then said, "Even today night,
far away, to the Rhine to my mother's brother, he is weak and needs
a Fellow who can look after things.

But I'm afraid, not my cash goes for the journey, and fencing, that is not my thing. "

I had already gone to my desk and had a small amount of money counted
on the table.

"Is this enough, Christopher?"

"Thank you, Philip." He carefully put the money in his purse, which already have a little treasure
in the gold and silver coins contained.

Only now I saw that in his black Sunday clothes stood before me.

"But you're masturbating in full," I asked, "Where have you been?"

"Well," he said, and rubbed his hand his broad forehead, "I have just come by the police! "

"You've
already got your passport?"

"Yes, my marching orders."

I looked at him quizzically.

"It is because of the stupid story in the ballroom."

I went to see. "So! So it's you been?" I said. That's not me at once occurred is! "

"Of course I have been there, Philip."

"Lenore was well with you?"

He nodded.

"And you have the durchgepruegelt Raugrafen?"

A satisfied smile hatred put around his mouth. "They say yes, that's I have been was, "he said.

The
old enemy of high school students said this in such a tone of satisfaction
that I have the facts could not be doubtful.

I had to laugh out loud.

"So tell me that! How then did the story?"

"Well, Phil - you know, I am going with the lore?

"Have you ever agree with each other?"

"It's probably something like that," he said .-- "She is a appointable person, and after the death
of old aunt, she gets a little something. "

I looked at him smiling. "Well, Christopher, she is otherwise not
that bad, you might have As convincing as usual hardly slammed!

"

He looked for a moment to himself.

"I hardly know," he said, "we were in the Series, Lore and I - it
was only to please her that I was gone - as was the long pale guy
who has always figured on them while whispering with another had,
and wanted extra dance with her.

"

"Was he an outrageous against your lady?"

"Outrageous - His face is shameless enough!"

"And Lore?" I said, my friend hot-fixing. "They would have liked with the handsome Cavalier
dance? "

He pulled together the forehead wrinkles, and I saw a dark cloud over his eyes superimposed.

"I do not know," he said softly .-- "It was good that you the girl when you were play Latin dance
school the Notknecht liesset. "

He gave me his hand. "Good-bye, Philip," he said, "I'll send you the money, otherwise will you
probably do not get much to hear from me, but by years time, God willing, I'm back here or
at our home. "

He was tried in vain .-- I myself in my interrupted work to deepen,
a vague concern for the future of Jugendgespielen had crept my heart.

I knew only too well what should not betray his words, that his fantasy of that girl was quite
satisfied and that all forces capable of working towards it head, his Living with the unite their.

Soon
after, I went down into the apartment of my landlords, where I did my lunch had. It might be
something introduced early, because of the household had no one to set; But in the next room,
I met the little Naehterin, the lame Marie ", which silently and alone under a cloud of white
material with the needle was busy .-- As I often in the company the two men had seen their skill
busied myself now, so I told her yesterday's incident, in hopes to learn about the cause of
the same details.

"I've come to see it!" she said, pinching the thin lips, is "the Carpenters otherwise probably
a real man, but against the girl he is to benevolently, and what
he wanted with her at the ball home!

"

I asked for closer.

They conceded a game witnessed by a chair so that I can share .-- "You may know the little house
in the Pfaffengasse "she began, as I followed her hint was," the Old Forge, the aunt of the
Lore, bought it years ago from the horse rental next door; But the court behind it, because
he needs for his business but has large room, the seller reserve so that he and his now in one
go together, except in the middle of a Little piece of turf can dry their laundry the old stuff
and bleach, if it so rich wants. She is cousin to my late mother, and was confirmed, since I am
I often went out with her sewing.

"I think it was just before last year, Martini, I was just after noon on the Forging, for we
had a great Seidenwaesche together. On the way I meet the carpenter, who went back then to the
Lore. Together we speak a word and walks away, he calls I still laugh: "When closing time come
I'll help you and put the clamps!" I's says and the Lore, but she did not seem big to be careful.

"Late
afternoon as we were inside finished, we went to the line between the Aufzuscheren stilts
that are outside on the grass roundabout. Lore, the dress over her Half-boots tucked up, went
with the little wooden passage from one to another. The old man had put to sleep indoors in her
chair, and I - I'm the tallest not, and could you just not much help.

"

And the story teller looked for her poor body gradezurichten happening.

"I had sat next to the laundry basket on a curbstone, and looked at
it, still the stable of the servant of a neighbor a gold fox .-- curried
I have the horses like to know You, because my father is a truck driver
was .-- There was even a nice animal, and if it so threw the head
out of the shadows in the sun, shines like the hair metal, but to
the fine leg work I knew very well that none of the neighbors had
Mietgaeulen .-- 'Who heard the horse?

" I asked Lore, the wooden podium just her close beside me on the last Pole had moved .-- 'The
horse? " she said, adding she stands on tiptoe and the line wraps around the wooden cross, 'which
belongs to the foreign students, and I do not know how he called.

" - I looked up at her, but they are not turned his head and wrapped still Continue with the leash.
When I just wanted to be impatient, "said a voice behind me: 'It is enough, Miss Ellie! "

"I
can still see she lowers her arms and quickly pulls down the dress tucked up, and as I turn my head,
the pale distinguished student stands before me, and Lore, without a word to say, jump down from
her kick and stands next to me. - The young man is only sharp eyes and makes the lore, as if
he would have watching for nothing. That up! I thought, and began at random a loud debate about
in golden fox and's talking so long, I had to answer, and before I know it, we were all three
hinuebergetreten on the court. The horse shuffled his hooves and saw his Lord with the intelligent
eyes; Lore stood near, and right when she carried the request to
let the animal, they slide down her flat hand on the mirror-like neck.

"He is meek, 'said the young gentleman, 'what do you mean, Miss Lore, sitting in your house
still hangs Saddle!' - you shook his head, but I heard it said the breath, and her eyes sparkled
neatly with pleasure. The count was probably the most well understood, for his signal was on the
saddle strapped on and created an easy check. Lore looked out as if you the eyes were bewitched.
But when the servant of her wooden podium to the rise hinstellte, the young man threw it aside.
'Ugh but Johann! " he cried, and as if they could but by Of course, he took the young girl under
his arm. 'Join tight! " he said, held the other hand in front of her, as he looked up with his
piercing eyes to her. And Lore, as you only need to always do as it wished, put her little feet
in his hand. I saw well, he hesitated, but it was only a moment, then he lifted it with a rapid
Swing up.

"She looked confused and looked down as she sat up there, and settled patient have arranged the
bridle between the fingers of him. The fox shook his head and let out a loud whinny. His master stroked
him a few times over the silken caress Coat, then he put his hand
on the saddle behind Lore, with the other he took the bridle and led
the horse slowly around the roundabout.

"I have to say it themselves, together they made a proud couple, and it would have no thought of
it as seen that the fine just a poor person and a tailor Naehterin
Daughter was.

"Soon it was not even her quickly enough.

They threw a hand up, the horse began to trot, and the young gentleman came back to the roundabout.
But he made no eye of her, as the Horse ran as he left the whip in his hand in circles around,
as if it were done to him, so his eyes at the girls flew to and fro, waving their black hair down
to the feet, which protruded the top of the saddle under the dress.

Soon he called her, soon Fuchs its a short word across. The animal ran faster and faster, pushed
it, and whipped with his tail in the air. Lenore did not look out.

She sat only served as and smiled and looked at the young master, degree as if it were his
eyes, which on the Saddle clung.

"So it went for a while. When the Old herauskaeme, I thought. It would give an evil weather! But
she did not.

As suddenly brandishing a flight pigeons with great clatter about supports the court, and the fox,
and makes a sentence. I think the Lore tumbling down, but no, they still hung on the neck of
the horse, only she had become pale as death. 'Oho! Virginia! " cries the Lord, and he is right
over there, the Lore sees on his arms, she for a moment with the piercing eyes and then they
can gently glide to the ground .-- Marriage I still remember, go I hear the back door. There
is the old man! I think, but when I I turn back, the carpenter stands before me .-- If It's only
the old woman was, I could not have altered, for so much like the
man looked petrified.

'Is it already closing time, Mr. Werner? " I call. But he pays no attention. 'Good evening, Marie!
" he says with all hoarse voice, and he choked out neatly, as if he stuck the word in the throat
would have to .-- 'Why do not we go inside? " I say again. 'Thank you', he replies, 'you have
there been society '-. And without looking at the girl, or losing a syllable of it, He returns
and walks through the great doorway of the road.

"Lore, stood without moving, in addition to the snorting horses. 'What did the man?" asked the
Count 'It is a compatriot of mine, "she replied softly. 'It is Mr. Werner', I said, 'the first
workers in the great Moebelmagazin', for the mocking me angry Face, which the Lord had watched
the carpenter. "

The narrator had finished work and they got up and put together the materials. Next door in
the living room were those of the house together for lunch.

"What's become of it?" I asked yet.

"What came of it?" she repeated. "I have spoken for a while to and fro; at the end - so the carpenter
can not let her, and she, if its not just the head insane, is also
know very well what she has in him.

The beautiful elegant young men are yes now but once it has grown for them. "

We went to dinner. But the history of lame-Marie was difficult for me to the heart .-- Lore and
Christopher! I could not think the two people together.

Soon after Easter, a sudden illness of my mother had called me home. Only in August, since
I completely convalescent care of the rest with my father and the
healing power left up to the mild air lifts could, I went back to
the university.

When I went away, on the vast lake cove near the town hardly the ice was gone, and now swept
over Because of all the full foliage of summer.

It was on the morning after my arrival, from my friend I had not yet spoken. I stood pensively
in the middle of my lonely Studentenstuebchens, the dried Inkwell on the desk and looked at
me uncomfortably dusty books, the semi- was unpacked suitcase on the floor it any better. But the sun
shone through the Windows and drew me out, and soon I was going,
how I loved it when a boy, with me alone in the shade of large elm
avenue, which is a distance above the water leads along the lakeshore.

As a dark vault of the immense trees standing over me, while on both sides on leaves and grasses and
in the windows of this everywhere hidden in the green Gartenhaeuser the bright morning sun sparkled,
and sometimes, where he was visible through the bushes met, even a flash of the sea my eyes
.-- I walked slowly, with the fresh air full Trains breathing, only single unknown people I met,
for the hour of strolling had not yet struck.

Gradually, however, stopped the gardens, instead of the Elms were slim coming here Book, which stood
to the side.

Only a short distance, and I went to a cool forest, ascends to the left, a hill, while I on
the other side through the trees could look down on the lake. In front of me from the thicket
sounded the silver notes of the finches and the call of the blackbird, interspersed with music
as I constantly hears the whisper the leaves and down below my feet, the hissing of the water.
I suddenly the memory of a dilapidated house that had to be here in the woods. Years ago, as
Sekundaner I was once with a similar student I was there I of the School had visited from. It
was, I learned then, from a speculative innkeeper been built, but the first failed speculation and
it had failed, the great train the guests hinauszulocken in his loneliness. He was forced to
sell, and the new owner let currently scarce economic administered by a waiter.

I remembered the long pale people very well, and also the one-story
building, which lay between the high book at about the half of the
hill, now stood with clarity before my eyes.

Among the small Saeulenhalle, which occupied the center of the front had I enjoyed drinking my
first glass of grog, from here we were with a large hinged doors
in a high gloomy room entered, looked out his window back into the
forest.

I was overcome with a desire to visit the lonely place again, at the same time a concern He
may now disappeared or for me not to be found.

While I was indulging my thoughts, I noticed looking up a narrow footpath, to the left of the road
between the trees hinaufschlang. I stood for a moment, so It was at that time was well, then
I slowly climbed up the mountain.

After having some time I appear in front of me between the tribes, a gray slate roof, were also gradually
The capitals of a small Saeulenhalle and to each side of it, the upper part of a Window visible.
A few more steps and a wide stone staircase leads from the tree shadow
addition to a small level place.

There it lay before me, located in the forest, in the most peaceful
sunshine.

The time here seemed little to have changed, as then, was the original reddish throw-off of the walls,
where it does not exfoliated from the earth, was obtained with green
moss everywhere, and from the crevices of the wooden Columns pushed
his brown proliferating Schwammgewaechs; even now was under the small
Hall, a dark green bank on either side of half-open hinged doors .--
I sat me on one of them and looked through the gap of the woods down
to the lake, where just a fishing boat in the sunshine .-- vorueberglitt
people seemed not dwell here on the above, It did not move, nor behind
me from the house I heard no sound, only a forest bee buzzed past
in rapid flight, and fluttered to the Grasraendern the stone steps
two dark Butterflies.

After a while I got up and went into the hall.

It seemed a grim almost as I had imagined, and the dense trees outside
the window seemed to their branches up over the roof too wide.

I banged my stick on a table, that it's high ceiling echoed, but no one came .-- To the left
in an adjoining room, where I looked into it, stood a lone pool table.

But was opposite to the other side of the room another door and I opened it and came to a small
hallway and through this again outside .-- In addition to a bowling alley, which was close
to home, I found an even older people, with a green apron done sleeping on the lawn. In fact,
it seemed the same waiter even at that time - when I touched him
with his stick, he tore his eyes on and jumped up.

"Please, sir," he said, "I have had little rest the night."

I looked at him in surprise.

"You know that?" he continued, as he eyed me from head to feet. "The gentlemen Corps boys have
indeed moved since their Easter Kneip evening here. "

I knew it not, in fact, although most of my friends on this compound belonged.

While I was a pitcher of beer and a slice of bread ordered, we had gone back into the hall .--
As the days slip through the open door fell, were in the middle of the floor a few dark spots
are visible that I left no doubt that not only the pub nights, but
An adjacent the "Pauker estates" were laid in this solitude .-- "Why
do you manage because the blood does not go away? "I asked.

"To apologize,
sir," replied the waiter pale, "but the stain keeps coming back; It
is a time when the accident happened here .-- It looked at evil, when
the heated young man at one time was so still and white. "

I immediately
remembered that incident, which a poor officer's widow her only Son
had cost. It was done soon after I left and had a short time the Participation
of the entire small country called.

I went out into the hall and
sat down on one of the green benches, the poor hot blooded Thinking
of boys, whose life had left behind the last track.

After a while
the waiter brought the ordered breakfast. "This evening you could
what Have better, "he said, by asking pitcher and plate in front of
me on the table." We have Ball, because the principal always sends
out his cook.

"Ball?" I asked, surprised. "Who is dancing here since
the middle of the forest?"

"Well," he replied, looking almost a little
disrespectful to my not-too-modern Clothing, "the chief gentlemen
have the students set up."

I suddenly remembered a passage from the
letter of a friend, I found during my Stay had been given at home.
"The Sentinel, we call it, and it's great ! Enough ago "These were
the words I knew now what it was;. I had only Place forget.

The waiter
seemed the way, those names do not just listen to you. While I was
still to screw it was looking for were two young, I came up a little-known
students of the mountain. They threw themselves, without taking notice
of me, on the other side of the door to the bank, while In sharp words
and accented with a grim facial expression of each a pint Ordered
beer. Then, while the waiter went away, came in broken sentences,
sometimes interrupted by howling and loud yawn, a conversation about
the upcoming Tanzfestlichkeit in response to the one that appears
to be a "fox" by latest date, first by his somewhat older fellow should
know. One after another, the dancers were in a concise, not just the
most delicate portrayal had shown, preceded the daughters of an angular
dance master trunkanfaelligen and a policeman was justified with the
help of the Institute, in its Wake a number of friends and orphaned
girls who during the day with their Hands work, earned a meager bread.

We come now to ANTONIO ALLEGRI, called CORREGGIO (1493-1534), who was born at the end of the
fifteenth, but did his work in the beginning of the sixteenth century. His name of Correggio
is that of his birth-place, and as he was not born at any of the great art centres, and did
not adopt the precise manner of any school, he, with his followers, stand by themselves, and
yet, because his principal works were done at Parma, he is sometimes said to be of the school
of Parma.

When Correggio was thirteen years old he had learned to draw well. He studied under Andrea
Mantegna and his son Francesco Mantegna. From these masters he learned to be very skilful in
drawing, especially in foreshortening, or in representing objects seen aslant. But though he
learned much of the science of art from his teachers, his grace and movement and his exquisite
light and shade are all his own, for they did not possess these qualities.

Foreshortening is so important that I must try to explain it; and, as Correggio is said to
be the greatest master in this art since the days of the Greeks, it is quite proper for me
to speak of it in connection with him. The art of foreshortening is that which makes different
objects painted on a plane or flat surface appear as if they were at different distances from
the eye of the person who is looking at the picture, or as scenes in nature appear, where one
part is much farther off than another. To produce this effect it is often necessary to make
an object--let us say, for example, an arm or a leg, look as if it was stretched forward, out
of the canvas, directly toward the person who is looking at it. Now, the truth is that in order
to produce this effect the object is often thrown backward in the drawing; sometimes also it
is doubled up in an unnatural manner, and occupies a small space on the canvas, while it appears
to be of life size when one looks at it. A "Christ in Glory" painted by Correggio in the cupola
of the Church of San Giovanni Evangelista, in Parma, is a fine piece of foreshortening. The
head is so thrown back, and the knees are so thrown forward, that the whole figure seems to
be of life size; yet if the space from the top of the head to the soles of the feet were measured,
it would be found to be much less than the height of the same figure would be if it were drawn
in an erect position.

I have already explained the meaning of chiaro-scuro, and this delicate manner of passing from
light to shade was another quality in the works of Correggio. It is even seen in his early
works, as, for instance, in the beautiful Madonna di San Francesco, now at Dresden, which he
painted when he was but eighteen years old.

When this master was twenty-six years old he married Girolama Nurlini, and about the same time
he was summoned to Mantua by the Duke Federigo Gonzaga. During eleven years after his marriage
he was occupied with works in Mantua, and with his great frescoes at Parma. In 1530 he returned
to Correggio, and there passed the remainder of his life. That he held a high position is proved
by certain records of his life, among which is the fact that in 1533 he was invited to be one
of the witnesses of the marriage of the Lord of Correggio.

It is said that when this painter saw one of the great works of Raphael, he exclaimed, enthusiastically
and thankfully, "I, too, am a painter!" and no doubt he then felt himself moved to attempt
such works as should make his name known to all the world through future centuries. When Titian
saw Correggio's frescoes at Parma, he said: "Were I not Titian, I should wish to be Correggio."
Annibale Caracci, also a great artist, said of Correggio, more than a hundred years after his
death, "He was the only painter!" and declared that the children he painted seemed to breathe
and smile with such grace that one was forced to smile and be happy with them.

In 1534 Correggio died of a fever, and was buried in his family tomb in the Franciscan Convent
of his native city. His grave is simply marked with his name and the date of his death.

Some of his oil-paintings are very famous. One at Dresden, representing the "Nativity of the
Saviour," is called the "Notte," or night, because the only light on the picture comes from
the halo of glory around the head of the Holy Child. Correggio's "Reading Magdalen" is in the
same gallery; probably no one picture exists which has been more universally admired than this.

There was a large work of his representing "The Shepherds Adoring the Infant Saviour," at Seville,
in Spain. During the Peninsular War (1808-14) the people of that city sent many valuable things
to Cadiz for safety, and this picture, on account of its size, was cut in two. By some accident
the two parts were separated; but both were sold, and the purchaser of each was promised that
the other portion should be given him. From this much trouble arose, because both purchasers
determined to keep what they had, and each claimed that the whole belonged to him, and as they
were equally obstinate, the two parts of the same work have never been reunited. Fortunately,
each half makes a picture by itself.

The frescoes at Parma are the greatest works of this master, and it is very interesting to
visit that quaint old city; his works are in the Cathedral, the Church of St. John the Evangelist,
and in the parlor of the Convent of the Benedictine Nuns. This last is a wonderful room. The
ceiling is arched and high, and painted to represent an arbor of vines with sixteen oval openings,
out of which frolicsome children are peeping, as if, in passing around behind the vines, they
had stopped to look down into the room. The pictures here will make you understand the effect
(Figs. 48 and 49). Beneath each of these openings or lunettes is a half-circular picture of
some mythological story or personage. Upon the wall of the parlor, above the mantel, there
is a picture of Diana, the goddess of the moon and the protector of young animals, which is
a beautiful picture.

When Correggio worked on the frescoes at the Church of St. John, he lived much in the monastery
connected with it. The monks became very fond of him, and made him a member of the Congregation
Cassinensi; the poet Tasso also was a member of this fraternity. This membership gave him the
right to share in the masses, prayers, and alms of the community, and after his death the same
offices for the repose of his soul would be performed as if he had been a true monk.

The works of Correggio are very rarely sold. The madonna in the National Gallery, London, known
as "La Vierge au Panier," was formerly in the Royal Gallery at Madrid. During the French invasion
of Spain, Mr. Wallace, an English artist, obtained it. It is painted on a panel, and is 13½
inches high by 10 inches wide. In 1813 it was offered for sale in London at twelve hundred
pounds. In 1825 it was sold in Paris for eighty thousand francs, and soon after sold to the
National Gallery for thirty-eight hundred pounds, or nearly nineteen thousand dollars.

A copy of the "Reading Magdalen" was sold to Earl Dudley for sixteen hundred pounds, or more
than seven thousand dollars.

Correggio had but few pupils, but he had many imitators. The one most worthy of mention was
FRANCESCO MAZZUOLI (1503-1540), called IL PARMIGIANO, or PARMIGIANINO. He was not a great painter.
The "Vision of St. Jerome," in the National Gallery, London, is one of his best works. It is
said that during the sack of Rome, in 1527, he was painting the figures of the Virgin and Child
in this picture, and was so engrossed by his work that the invaders entered his studio, and
surrounded him before he was aware of their approach. And they, for their part, were so moved
by what they saw that they went away, and left him undisturbed.

Art writers often use the term "early masters." This denotes Michael Angelo, Raphael, and other
men so great that they were very prominent in the history of art, and were imitated by so many
followers that they had an unusual effect upon the world. Titian may be called the last of
these great masters of the early school, and his life was so long that he lived to see a great
decline in art.

The painters of the close of the sixteenth century are called "Mannerists," which means that
they adopted or imitated the manner or style of some great master who had preceded them--and
this was done in so cold and spiritless a way that it may be said that true artistic inspiration
was dead in Italy. No one lived who, out of his own imagination, could fix upon the wall or
the canvas such scenes as would befit a poet's dream or serve to arouse the enthusiasm of those
who saw the painted story born in the artist's brain.

About 1600, the beginning of the seventeenth century, there arose a new movement in Italian
art, which resulted in forming two schools between which there came to be much bitterness of
feeling, and even deadly hatred. On one side there were those who wished to continue the study
and imitation of the works of the old masters, but with this they united a study of nature.
These men were called "Eclectics," because they elected or chose certain parts of different
systems of painting, and from these formed a new manner of their own.

Opposed to the Eclectics were the "Naturalists," who insisted that nature only should be studied,
and that everything should be represented in the most realistic way, and made to appear in
the picture exactly as it did in reality, not being beautified or adorned by any play of fancy
or imagination.

The chief school of the Eclectics, of whom I will first speak, was at Bologna, and is known
also as the "school of the Caracci," because LUDOVICO CARACCI (1555-1619) was at the head of
a large academy there, and was assisted by his nephews, AGOSTINO CARACCI (1558-1601) and ANNIBALE
CARACCI (1560-1609), the latter being the greatest artist of the three. The lives of the Caracci
are not of such interest as to require an account of them here, neither are their works so
interesting that we may not leave these artists by saying that they have great consideration
as the heads of the Eclectic Academy, and for the work they did in it at an important era in
the history of Italian art; but the fruits of their work are shown in that of their scholars
rather than in their own paintings, and in this view their influence can scarcely be overvalued.

The greatest of their scholars was DOMENICO ZAMPIERI (1581-1641), called DOMENICHINO, who was
born at Bologna, and was instructed by Denis Calvert, who forbade his drawing after the works
of Annibale Caracci. Domenico disobeyed this command, and was so severely treated by Calvert
that he persuaded his father to take him from that master, and place him in the school of the
Caracci. When he entered the Academy he was so dull that his fellow-pupils nicknamed him "The
Ox;" but Annibale Caracci said: "Take care: this ox will surpass you all by and by, and will
be an honor to his art." Domenichino soon began to win many prizes in the school, and left
it well trained and prepared for a brilliant career.

He gave much thought to his art, shunned private society, and if he went out at all he frequented
public places where large numbers of people were gathered, thus affording him an opportunity
to study their varying expressions. He also tried to feel in himself the emotions of the person
he was painting. For instance, it is said that when he was painting the "Scourging of St. Andrew,"
he threw himself into a passion, and used threatening gestures and high words. In the midst
of this his master, Annibale Caracci, surprised him, and was so impressed with his method that
he threw his arms about his pupil's neck, exclaiming, "To-day, my Domenichino, thou art teaching
me!"

The most celebrated work by Domenichino is the "Communion of St. Jerome," in the Vatican. It
is universally considered the second picture in Rome, the "Transfiguration," by Raphael, being
the only one that is placed before it. The scene it represents is just before the death of
the saint, when he was borne into the chapel to receive the sacrament of the communion for
the last time (Fig. 50).

Domenichino was made very unhappy in Rome, on account of the jealousy of other artists, and
he returned to Bologna. However, his fame had reached the court at Naples, and the viceroy
of that city invited the artist to decorate the Chapel of St. Januarius. There was in Naples
at that time an association of artists who had determined that no strange artist should be
allowed to do work of any account in their city. As soon as Domenichino began his work, therefore,
he received letters threatening his life. His colors were spoiled by having ruinous chemicals
mixed with them, his sketches were stolen from his studio, and all sorts of insults and indignities
were heaped upon him.

After a time, the painter was so disheartened that he fled to Rome; but the viceroy sent for
him and took every precaution possible to protect him and enable him to work in peace. But
just as all seemed to be going well he sickened and died, and it has always been said that
he was poisoned. Be this as it may, there is no doubt that the fear, vexation, and anxiety
of his life caused his death, and on this account his tormentors were his murderers.

The works of Domenichino are not numerous, and are not seen in as many galleries as are those
of some Italian painters; but there are a considerable number scattered over Europe and very
beautiful ones in several galleries in Rome.

The next painter of importance in the Eclectic school was GUIDO RENI (1575-1642), born at Bologna,
and the son of a professor of music. His father intended that Guido also should be a musician,
and the poor boy was much persecuted on account of his love for drawing. But after many struggles
the boy came into the Caracci school, and was soon a favorite pupil there.

When still young he listened with great attention to a lecture from Annibale, in which he laid
down the rules which should govern a true painter. Guido resolved to follow these rules closely,
and soon he painted so well that he was accused of trying to establish a new system of painting.
At last Ludovico Caracci turned against him and dismissed him from his school.

The young artist went to Rome; but his persecutions did not cease, and it seemed to be his
fate to excite the jealousy of other painters. Now, when so much time has elapsed, we know
that Guido was not a very great master, and had he painted in the days of Michael Angelo he
would not have been thought so. But art had lowered its standard, and Guido's works were suited
to the taste of his time; he had a high conception of beauty, and he tried to reach it in his
pictures.

In the course of his career Guido really painted in three styles. His earliest pictures are
the strongest; those of his middle period are weaker, because he seemed only to strive to represent
grace and sweetness; his latest pictures are careless and unequal in execution, for he grew
indifferent to fame, and became so fond of gaming that he only painted in order to get money
to spend in this sinful folly.

His masterpiece in Rome was the "Aurora," on a ceiling of the Rospigliosi Palace; it represents
the goddess of the dawn as floating before the chariot of Apollo, or Phoebus, the god of the
sun. She scatters flowers upon the earth, he holds the reins over four piebald and white horses,
while Cupid, with his lighted torch, floats just above them. Around the chariot dance seven
graceful female figures which represent the Hours, or Horæ. I have been asked why seven was
the number; the ancients had no fixed number for the Hours; sometimes they were spoken of as
two, again three, and even in some cases as ten. It has always seemed to me that ten was the
number chosen by Guido, for in that case there would naturally be three out of sight, on the
side of the chariot which is not seen (Fig. 51).

The portrait of Beatrice Cenci is another very celebrated picture by Guido; it is in the gallery
of the Barberini Palace, in Rome (Fig. 52). The interest in the portrait of this unhappy girl
is world-wide. She was the daughter of a wealthy Roman noble, who after the death of her mother
married a second time, and treated the children of his first marriage in a brutal way. It is
even said that he hired assassins to murder two of his sons on their return from a journey
to Spain. The story also relates that his cruelty to Beatrice was such that, with the aid of
her step-mother and her brother, she killed him. At all events, these three were accused of
this crime and were executed for it in 1599. Other accounts say that he was murdered by robbers,
and his wife and children were made to appear as if guilty. Clement VII. was the pope at that
time, and in spite of his knowledge of the cruelty of the father he would not pardon them,
though mercy was implored of him for this lovely girl. The reason given for this action of
the pope's is that he wished to confiscate the Cenci estates, which he could do if the family
suffered the death penalty. So many reproductions of this sad face have been made that it is
very familiar to us, and almost seems to have been the face of some one whom we have known.

Guido did not paint his St. Michael for the Cappucini in Rome until after he returned to his
native city. When he sent the picture to the monks, he wrote: "I wish I had the wings of an
angel to have ascended into Paradise, and there to have beholden the forms of those beautified
spirits from which I might have copied my archangel; but not being able to mount so high, it
was in vain for me to search for his resemblance here below, so that I was forced to make an
introspection into my own mind, and into that idea of beauty which I have formed in my own
imagination."

We are told that he always tried to paint his ideal of beauty rather than to reproduce any
human beauty that he had seen. He would pose his color-grinder, and draw his outlines from
him, and then fill in with his own conceptions of what the head he was painting should be;
this accounts for the sameness in his heads and faces.

His passion for gaming degraded the close of his life. It led him into great distresses, and
for the sake of money he painted many pictures which are not worthy of his name. He had always
received generous prices for his pictures, but he left many debts as a blot upon his memory.
His works are seen in the galleries of Europe, and are always admired for their feeling, beauty,
and grace.

FRANCESCO ALBANI (1578-1660), born at Bologna, was another scholar of the Caracci school, and
a friend of Guido Reni. There are many works of his in Rome. His pictures of landscapes with
figures were his best works, and beauty was his characteristic. His own home had all the advantages
for painting such works as he best succeeded in, such as Venus and the Loves, maids and boys,
children and Cupids in unending variety.

His villa was surrounded by charming views. His wife was very handsome, and they had twelve
lovely children, so lovely that it is said that other artists besides himself made use of them
for models.

There were several other Eclectics of some importance of whom we shall not speak, but shall
leave them with an account of ELISABETTA SIRANI (1640-1665), who also was born at Bologna,
and is worthy of attention on account of her talents, while the story of her life adds another
interest than that which she has as an artist.

She was an imitator of the attractive manner of Guido Reni. The heads of her madonnas and magdalens
are charming, and, indeed, all her work speaks of the innate refinement of her nature. Her
industry was marvellous, since she made one hundred and fifty pictures and etchings in a period
of about ten years. Much has been said of the rapidity with which she worked, and one story
relates that on a certain day the Duchess of Brunswick, the Duchess of Mirandola, and the Duke
Cosimo de Medici, with other persons, met in her studio, and she sketched and shaded drawings
of subjects which they named to her, with a skill and celerity which astonished and delighted
her guests.

Her masterpiece is a picture of "St. Anthony Adoring the Virgin and Child," which is in the
Pinacoteca of Bologna. There are pictures by her in the Belvedere and Lichtenstein Galleries
at Vienna, in the Hermitage at St. Petersburg, and in the Sciarra Palace, Rome.

In person Elisabetta Sirani was beautiful, and her character commanded the affection of all
who knew her. She was a sweet singer, and her biographers increase her virtues by praising
her taste in dress, and even her moderation in eating! She was skilful in domestic affairs,
and was in the habit of rising early to perform her share in the household duties, never allowing
her art to displace any occupation which properly made a part of her life. Her name has come
down through more than two centuries as one whose "devoted filial affection, feminine grace,
and artless benignity of manner added a lustre to her great talents, and completed a personality
which her friends regarded as an ideal of perfection."

She died very suddenly, and the cause of her death has never been known; but the theory that
she was poisoned has been generally accepted. Several reasons for the crime have been given;
one is that she was the victim of jealous artists, as Domenichino had been; another, that a
princely lover whom she had scorned thus revenged himself. A servant-girl in her family was
suspected of the crime, tried, and banished; but after a time she was recalled to Bologna at
the request of the father of Elisabetta, for he saw no proof of the girl's guilt. In this way, they thought
to prevent tipping of the apparatus by the wind pressure by the action of the small Surface
as a counter force to the great served. Another fundamental change was to that the pilot did not,
as had previously happened, in an upright, but lying in Position was.

has the advantages of the horizontal position of the airship in the glider is Wilbur Wright
repeatedly expressed. Mainly, he stressed that the resistance of a body to the air in the upright
position is almost three times as large as in a horizontal position. While Lilienthal and his
successor, Chanute, Herring and Pilcher assumed that swinging movements the legs forward, backward
and lateral substantially to the safety of the flight and would contribute to maintain the
balance, the Wrights by their years of experiments come to the conclusion that it is precisely
their position in flight offer significant benefits. Above all Things we find in them the desire
to feel as one with the machine. You go out from the very correct assumption that they will
save the smallest balance disorders lighter note and to counteract by small shifts in the location of her
body can. The steering is greater in this position. If the wind suddenly greater pressure on the
wings exercises, the swing is achieved more easily, if the aviator is only with the poor in
the machine, as if he is there, for the oscillating part of the body of man with such changes
is not the wing position also affected, so the resistance to this kind of balance in this case
much lower. Only on the descent and landing offers the advantages of continuous layer, because
the pilot does not need foreign help, and can only start against the wind. The Wrights now had
to either, as they did at first, start with their camera into the wind and, as soon as the plane
came to float to bring turnend in lying position, or, as they It last did so two people can
veer into the air. Likewise, they could at the landing by their legs more easily absorb the shock
spring. For longer glides now hanging Location extremely tiring. The compensatory movements against
the balance disorders require a disproportionate effort, excluding the long flights at all would.
Fall in a horizontal position, this force efforts continue at all, since the machine lose even more
difficult due to greater inertia, the tendency of stability. The fact that the Nature of gliding only
on soft ground would be executed, but the disadvantage after all However, the risk to hurt himself
on landing, much less than one assumes. The brothers landings have tried both methods and with
any injured.
 If Ribera did not actually commit many of the
crimes which were done there, he was responsible for them through his influence. His works
are frequently so brutal in their subjects and treatment that one feels that he who painted
them must have lost all the kindliness of his nature.

He married the daughter of a rich picture dealer, and became very rich himself. In 1630 he
was made a member of the Academy of St. Luke, at Rome, and in 1648 Pope Innocent X. sent him
the cross of the Order of Christ. Few Italian artists were better known in their own country,
and many of his pictures were sent to Spain. His greatest excellence was in his knowledge of
anatomy, and he painted subjects that enabled him to show this. Among his famous works are
a "Descent from the Cross;" "The Flaying of St. Bartholomew;" "Ixion on the Wheel;" and "Cato
of Utica." His works are in all the famous galleries of the world.

Ribera's greatest pupil was SALVATOR ROSA (1615-1673), the landscape painter, who was a very
gifted man, being a poet and musician as well as an artist. His father was an educated man,
and with his other relatives encouraged his son in his taste for art. When twenty years old
he went to Rome, and with the exception of some intervals remained there during his life.

It is said that as a youth he associated much with bandits, and, when one considers the wildness
of many of his scenes and the character of the figures in their midst, it is not difficult
to believe that this may have been true. It is certain that he painted the portrait of the
famous Masaniello more than once, and he is believed to have joined the Compagnia della Morte,
of which Falcone, one of his masters, was the captain.

Salvator made many enemies by his independence and his inclination to satire. He wrote satires
on various subjects which were not published until after his death, but it was known that he
had written them. He married a Florentine woman, who was the mother of his two sons. When he
died he was buried in the Church of Santa Maria degli Angeli, where a monument is erected to
his memory.

He painted some historical subjects and portraits in which he followed the Naturalists, but
his principal works were landscapes. Jagged rocks and mountains, wild dells and lonely defiles,
with here and there robbers, hermits, or soldiers, make his most effective pictures. There
is a deep sense of desolation, almost of fear, in them which is very impressive. Sometimes
he painted serene landscapes and poetic figures; but his best works are not of this sort. His
pictures are in the principal public and in some private galleries. He also left about ninety
etchings which are masterly in execution and full of expression in the heads, while the atmosphere
is soft. When his works are sold they bring great prices. A large landscape with Apollo and
the Sibyl in the foreground brought eight thousand five hundred dollars in England years ago,
and is now worth much more than that.

Early in the eighteenth century an artist named ANTONIO CANALE (1697-1768), called CANALETTO,
began to make views of the city of Venice and scenes on the canals. He had two followers, BERNARDO
BELLOTTI (1720-1780), who was his nephew, and FRANCESCO GUARDI (1712-1793), and these three
painters executed a large number of these pictures, which are found in many European galleries,
and it is not always easy to distinguish their authorship. There is no doubt that many which
were once attributed to the first master were really painted by his pupils.

Before the commencement of the eighteenth century the decline of the Renaissance school in
Italy had begun; in fact, the painting of the seventeenth century came to be mere mechanical
realism. For this reason the portraits were the best pictures of the time, as in them it was
requisite to be true to the object represented.

Late in the eighteenth century a new impulse was given to Italian painting, chiefly through
the influence of foreign artists such as Raphael Mengs, and the French painter David. In the
beginning of our own century LORENZO BENVENUTI (1769-1844) executed some excellent frescoes
in Florence, Siena, and Arezzo, which was his native city. He decorated the ceiling of the
Medici Chapel in the Church of San Lorenzo in Florence, and Leopold II., Grand Duke of Tuscany,
erected a tomb to this painter in the same church where he had spent so much time and talent.
His portrait, painted by himself, is in the gallery of the Uffizi, at Florence. VINCENZIO CAMMUCCINI
(1775-1844), too, was a celebrated master of his time. He was a Roman by birth, and became
President of the Academy of St. Luke; he was also a member of the Institute of France, and
received decorations from sovereigns of various countries. He made many copies from the works
of the great masters. His portraits were so much admired as to be compared to those of Rubens
and Tintoretto, and his ceiling frescoes in the Torlonia Palace, Rome, were among his important
works, as was a "Presentation of Christ in the Temple," painted for the Church of San Giovanni
in Piacenza.

But there has been no true restoration of Italian art. The painting of Italy in our time has
been largely a commercial enterprise rather than an outcome from artistic genius or impulse,
and the few works which are exceptions to this rule are not sufficient to encourage the hope
that this nation can again attain to her former rank or regain the fame of her past in the
history of modern art.

CHAPTER IV.

PAINTING IN FLANDERS, HOLLAND, AND GERMANY.

Flanders formerly embraced a larger part of Belgium than is contained in the present Belgian
provinces of East and West Flanders. It also covered a portion of Holland and some territory
in the northwest of France. The principal Flemish towns connected with the story of Flemish
art were Bruges, Tournai, Louvain, Ghent, Antwerp, Brussels, Mechlin, Liege, and Utrecht.

There are some records of Flemish painting much earlier than the fifteenth century, but they
are so vague and uncertain that I shall pass them over, and begin with the family of Van Eyck,
in which there were four painters--three brothers and a sister. The eldest, HUBERT VAN EYCK
(1366-1426), effected a great change in the art of his time and country. Very little is known
of him as a young man, or indeed of his personal history at all, except that he passed his
middle life at Bruges and his later years at Ghent. The subjects of his pictures were mostly
scriptural. I do not suppose that the pictures of this master would seem very beautiful to
you if you saw them, but they are of great value. His greatest work was an altar-piece for
Judocus Vyts and his wife Lisabetta; it was for the decoration of their funeral chapel in the
Church of St. Bavon in Ghent. It was an immense work, with a centre-piece and wings that could
be closed; the inside was divided into twelve different pictures, and the outside also was
painted. We do not know how much of this was completed when Hubert died and left it to be finished
by his brother John. Philip I. of Spain wished to buy this altar-piece, and when he could not
do so, he employed Michael Coxie to copy it; this artist spent two years on the work, and was
paid four thousand florins. Of the original work, a large portion remains in the Church of
St. Bavon; the wings, consisting of six beautiful, tall panels, are in the Berlin Museum, and
two outer compartments are in the Brussels Museum. The picture of holy men who have served
God is on one of the wings of this altar-piece (Fig. 53).

But the principal interest attached to Hubert van Eyck comes from the fact that he made such
discoveries in the use of colors as led to what we call the "Invention of Oil-Painting," and
this invention is always attributed to the Van Eycks, for it is probable that the discoveries
of Hubert were perfected by JAN VAN EYCK (1390-1440), who became a celebrated painter. Oil-painting
had been known, it is true, a long time, but the manner of preparing the colors and the varnish
used before the time of the Van Eycks was very unsatisfactory, and the improvement of these
substances was the work of these masters.

The pictures of Hubert van Eyck are stronger than those of Jan, who was really the founder
of a school remarkable for delicacy and fine finish rather than for power. It was after the
death of Hubert that the fame of the new colors spread abroad, and thus it happened that it
was to Jan that other artists went to learn his secrets.

Jan van Eyck was something of a diplomat as well as a painter, for when he was in the service
of Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, he was sent on several secret missions, and in 1428 he
accompanied the ambassadors of the duke to Portugal in order to paint the portrait of Isabella
of Portugal, who was betrothed to the duke. There is a goodly number of works by Jan van Eyck
in various galleries. The portrait of himself and wife in the National Gallery, London, is
very interesting; they stand hand in hand, with a terrier dog at their feet; their dress and
all the details of their surroundings are painted with great care. It is said that the Princess
Mary, sister of Charles V., gave a barber who owned it a position with a handsome salary in
exchange for the picture. Jan van Eyck, being twenty years younger than his brother Hubert,
naturally learned all that the elder knew, and the story of his life gives him the appearance
of being the more important artist, though in point of highest merit he was not the superior.

Of LAMBERT VAN EYCK very little is known. It is believed that he made the copy of Hubert's
great work which is in the Antwerp Museum; another work called by his name is in Louvain. MARGARETHA
VAN EYCK is said to have been a skilful artist, but no one picture can be ascribed to her;
she was buried beside her brother Hubert in the Cathedral of Ghent.

Of course the Van Eycks had many followers. Among them were PETRUS CHRISTUS (records 1444-1471),
GERARD VAN DER MEIRE (records 1447-1474), HUGO VON DER GOES (1405?-1482), and JUSTUS OF GHENT
(1468-?), all of whom were good artists, but I shall pass to a more important one, ROGIER VAN
DER WEYDEN (1400-1464), who was himself the head of a school of as great importance as was
that of the Van Eycks. His realism was his chief characteristic, and this was so great as to
make some of his works repulsive, especially his martyrdoms, in which he detailed horrors with
great exactness. He also loved to paint pictures which illustrated the myths of the Middle
Ages. Our illustration is from one of these works (Fig. 54).

This picture is from the story that when the Roman Senate decreed divine honors to the Emperor
Augustus, he consulted the Tiburtine Sibyl as to whether he ought to receive them or no. She
replied to him that it was more becoming for him to go away silently, and told him that a Hebrew
child should be born who should reign over the gods themselves, or that a king should come
from heaven whose power should never end. Another version, which is the one this picture represents,
says that the heavens opened, and a vision of the Virgin with the Saviour in her arms, standing
on an altar, was shown the emperor. He worshipped it, and heard a voice saying, "Haec ara filii
Dei" (This is the altar of the Son of God). Augustus reported this to the Senate, and erected
an altar upon the spot in Rome where the Church of Santa Maria in Capitolio, or the "Ara Coeli,"
now stands.

Many pictures by Van der Weyden are seen in European galleries. He was also a fine miniaturist.
He was official painter to the city of Brussels, and was buried in its cathedral.

His son, ROGIER VAN DER WEYDEN the younger, became very rich and benevolent. He died at Brussels
in 1529. His works are not numerous in public galleries.

The elder Van der Weyden had a pupil, HANS MEMLING (records 1450-1499), who became the greatest
master in Belgium. I shall not give you a long account of him; but shall tell you of his greatest
work, which was the Shrine of St. Ursula, at the Hospital of Bruges, and is the best example
of this type of early Flemish art which still exists. It is divided into six compartments,
with two ends, and other panels on top, all of which are finished with the greatest care, and
give the whole story of St. Ursula and her eleven thousand virgins, which is that Ursula was
a daughter of a king of Brittany who was a Christian. The young girl was educated with the
greatest care, and the fame of her beauty and wisdom spread all over Europe. At length the
king of England asked for her to be the wife of his son. The princess replied that she would
wed him on three conditions: first, that he should give her ten virgins of noble blood for
her companions, then to each of these virgins and to herself he should give a thousand maidens
as attendants; second, he should allow her three years with these companions, with whom she
should visit the shrines where the bodies of the saints repose; and third, the English king
and his court should receive baptism.

I cannot give space for all the details of this story, which is of great interest; but the
result was that Ursula received all that she asked, and started on her journey to Rome, in
the course of which she and the eleven thousand maidens met with many adventures. At last,
having reached Cologne on their return, they encountered an army of barbarians which was besieging
the city, and all were slain.

The subjects of the pictures as they were painted by Memling were: 1, the first landing at
Cologne in the beginning of the journey; 2, the landing at Basle; 3, the arrival in Rome; 4,
the second arrival at Basle on her return toward home; 5, commencement of the martyrdom, when
Ursula and her train are first seen by the barbarians; 6, death of Ursula.

The works of Memling which still remain are numerous, and are seen in many public galleries.
After the death of this master the purity of Flemish painting declined. Many artists visited
Italy, and the manner of Flemish painters was influenced by association with Italian art and
artists. I shall, therefore, pass over a period when no very important masters appeared, and
speak next of a great man, QUINTIN MATSYS (1466-1529), who began life as a blacksmith. He was
born at Antwerp, and there are specimens of iron work there said to have been executed by him.
It is said that he fell in love with the daughter of an artist who refused to allow him to
marry her because he was not a painter; for this reason Matsys devoted himself to the study
of art, and became the best Belgian master of his time. His pictures of religious subjects
are full of tender earnestness and deep feeling, and his most important work was an altar-piece
which is now in the Museum of Antwerp. His scenes from common life, his misers and lovers are
spirited and truthful.

His portrait and that of his second wife, both painted by himself, are in the gallery of the
Uffizi in Florence. His works are not very numerous, but they are seen in the principal galleries.
He was buried in the Cathedral of Antwerp, and a slab is inserted in the wall which tells his
story; one sentence is, "Connubialis amor de mulcibre fecit Apellene" (True love changed the
smith to an Apelles).

Rubens is the next great master of whom I shall speak, but I wish to say that during the last
part of the sixteenth century there were many Flemish painters of considerable note whose pictures
are seen in galleries, and are well worth consideration, but whose lives had no circumstances
of especial interest. Among the best of these artists were ANTONIO MORO, PETER POURBUS (1510-1583),
and his son and grandson, both named Frans, PIETER BREUGHEL (1530-1569), and his sons Jan and
Pieter the younger, and PAUL BRIL, an early Flemish landscape painter.

All the early Flemish pictures are very interesting, but in the beginning of the seventeenth
century a new manner of painting was introduced through the genius of PETER PAUL RUBENS (1577-1640).
This master was descended from two good families: his mother was of the distinguished family
Pypeling, and his father, John Rubens, was one of the two principal magistrates of Antwerp.
This city was the home of Rubens, although he was born at Siegen, in the county of Nassau,
during a time when his father was in exile on account of a civil war which was then raging.
He was born June 29th, the feast of Sts. Peter and Paul, and hence was named for those apostles.

He was a bright, scholarly boy, and soon showed his love for drawing. When he began to study
art under Adam van Noort he had already a good education. During the four years he passed with
this teacher he learned thoroughly all the technical part of painting; then, in another four
years under Otto Vænius, he cultivated his taste and the more poetical elements of his nature,
for Vænius was a very learned and elegant man. In 1598, when twenty-one years old, Rubens was
admitted to the guild of painters in Antwerp. Two years later he went to Venice, and, after
studying the works of Titian and Paul Veronese there, he entered the service of the Duke of
Mantua, to whom he had been recommended by the governor of the Netherlands.

While in Mantua he painted some fine pictures, and the duke sent him to Rome to copy celebrated
works there. Rubens also executed some other orders in Rome, from which place he was recalled
by the duke, who wished to send an envoy to Spain, and had chosen the young artist for that
duty. He showed great political ability in the way he conducted his embassy, and through his
personal charms made many friends.

After his return from Spain he went again to Rome and then to Genoa, and finally, on account
of the illness of his mother, he returned to Antwerp, having been absent seven years. His mother
died before he reached her. He then decided to remain in Antwerp, and built himself a fine
house with a charming studio. He soon married his first wife, Isabella Brant, and during the
next fifteen years led a very regular and industrious life, and executed many important works.
He also received a large number of pupils into his studio, and he has been accused of allowing
them to paint pictures which he called by his own name; but it is true that Rubens, with his
own hand, completed pictures of almost every kind, and so proved his power as an artist.

He was fond of study, and could read and speak seven languages. He was in the habit of having
some one read aloud to him while he painted, and preferred books of history and poetry. In
1620 he was invited to France by Marie de Medicis, for whom he executed many works. Among them
the most important were scenes illustrating the life of this queen which decorate some apartments
in the Louvre.

In 1628 the Infanta Isabella sent him on a second mission to Spain, and while there he painted
many grand and important pictures, which are fine examples of his gorgeous coloring. He proved
himself so good a diplomatist that he was sent to England to try to make peace between that
country and Flanders, in which he was successful. He was knighted by King Charles in 1630,
and received the same honor from the king of Spain.

In 1630 he married Helena Forment, a niece of his first wife, who was but sixteen years old.
She became the mother of five children; he had two sons by his first marriage, to whom Gevartius
was tutor. Rubens made so many portraits of both his wives and so often used them as models
in painting his large pictures, that their faces are familiar to all the world (Fig. 55).

Rubens made a valuable collection of all sorts of beautiful objects, and lived luxuriously.
After his death a portion of his collection was sold at private sale for more than seventy-five
thousand dollars. His death occurred in 1640, and he was buried in a private chapel in the
Church of St. James in Antwerp; he had decorated this chapel with some works of his own. His
family erected a monument to him, upon which an epitaph written by Gevartius was inscribed.

In painting Rubens was almost a universal genius, for he left a great variety of works as well
as a great number. About one thousand eight hundred are ascribed to him: doubtless his pupils
did much work on these; but there is something of himself in all. They include historical,
scriptural, and mythological subjects, portraits, animals, genre pictures, and landscapes.
His style is a strange mingling of northern and southern elements. His handling and his arrangement
of his subjects was like that of the Italians; but his figures, even when he represented Christ
and the holiest men, were like Spanish kings or German peasants, or somebody whom he had seen.

We have not space to speak in detail of the works of Rubens. Some critics insist that one class
of his pictures is best, and some another. Of course this depends largely upon the taste of
those who make the judgment. It is certain that he was a wonderful painter, and many of his
pictures give great pleasure to those who visit the galleries where they are seen.

His pictures of children were so painted that they seem to have been done from pure love of
the work. His portraits are splendid, his genre scenes delightful, and his landscapes fine;
in short, the amount and variety of his work is a proof of his great genius and industry, such
as can scarcely be equalled in the history of painting. Yet it cannot be denied that there
is much incorrect drawing, unnatural coloring, and coarse, bad taste in some of his works.
On the other hand, the fertility of his imagination, his bold design and effective execution,
as well as his brilliant color, are all to be admired, and the name of Rubens stands high on
the list of Flemish artists who are famous the world over.

FRANS SNYDERS (1579-1657) was born at Antwerp and lived in the time of Rubens. He was a famous
painter of animals, and it sometimes happened that they worked together, Rubens painting the
landscapes and figures and Snyders the animals in the same pictures. Snyders, like Rubens,
excelled in representing animals in the most exciting moment of the combat or the chase, and
his pictures are full of life. They are seen in all large European galleries, and are much prized.

JAN FYT (1609-1661), also born at Antwerp, is the greatest Flemish animal painter after Snyders.
His greyhounds cannot be equalled, while his live dogs are wonderful; but his best pictures
represent dead game. The fur and feathers in his paintings are marvellously done, and his pictures
are among the best in the world in which such subjects are treated.

JACOB JORDAENS (1593-1678), another native of Antwerp, studied under Adam van Noort at the
same time with Rubens, but later in life he became a follower and a sort of assistant of his
former fellow-pupil. He married a daughter of their old master and never visited Italy. His
color was fine; in truth, he sometimes excelled Rubens himself in the "golden glow" which is
much admired in his works. Many sacred pictures by Jordaens are seen in the churches of Flanders.
A fine historical work of his represents scenes from the life of Prince Frederick Henry of
Orange, and is in the House of the Wood, near the Hague; but the larger part of his pictures
represent the manners and customs of the common people, and are seen in public galleries.

The greatest artist among the pupils of Rubens, as well as one of the greatest of Flanders,
was ANTHONY VANDYCK (1599-1641). He was born in Antwerp, and was the son of a silk merchant,
this having been the occupation of the Vandycks for several generations. The mother of the
painter was extremely skilled in various kinds of embroidery, and had such artistic tastes
as enabled her to make many original designs, which she worked out with her needle in delicate
and elaborate tapestry work.

Some people believe that to this taste and talent of his mother's Vandyck owed the instinct
for drawing which he early showed; at all events, she did all she could to develop his taste,
and when he was still a boy she persuaded her husband to place him under the teaching of Henry
van Balen.

He was still quite young when he entered the studio of Rubens, and was soon so much trusted
by the master as to be allowed to make drawings from his works for the use of the engravers.
This sort of drawing must be done with great care and exactness, and Vandyck must have had
much skill to be fitted for it. His fellow-pupils also had great faith in him, as is shown
by the story that one day, when Rubens had gone out, the young student bribed his old servant
to show them the painting with which the master was then occupied. While jostling each other
it happened that one of them hit the fresh picture, and injured it. They were much alarmed,
and begged Vandyck to repair it. After some hesitation he did so, and was so successful that
at first Rubens did not detect the fact that another had worked on the picture. When he did
discover it, and learned the truth about it he forgave the offence heartily.

When Vandyck was nineteen years old he was admitted to the Society of Artists in Antwerp, an
unusual honor to one of his age. In 1620 Vandyck went to England, having been invited there
through the Earl of Arundel. Little is known of this visit, and two years later he was invited
to the Hague, where he spent several months.

When Vandyck was passing through Haarlem he went to the studio of Franz Hals, who was at a
tavern just then. A message was sent him saying that a stranger desired to have his portrait
made, and had but two hours to spare for it. Hals hastened home and dashed off the portrait
within the time stated. Vandyck then said, "Portrait-painting seems to be a simple thing; take
my place, and give me the brush for awhile." Hals complied with the request and Vandyck made
his portrait with great celerity. Seeing this, Hals cried out, "You are Vandyck; he alone can
do such work."

The young artist was suddenly called to the death-bed of his father, who commanded him to paint
a picture for the Dominican Sisters who had cared for his father in his illness. Seven years
later Vandyck presented the Sisters with a Crucifixion. At the foot of the cross was a rock
upon which was inscribed, in Latin, "Lest the earth should be heavy upon the remains of his
father, Anthony Vandyck moved this rock to the foot of the cross, and gave it to this place."
When the monasteries were broken up, this picture was purchased for two thousand seven hundred
dollars for the Antwerp Academy, where it now is.

At length Vandyck prepared to set out for Italy. When he paid his farewell visit to Rubens
he presented the master with three of his pictures, and in return Rubens gave him one of his
finest horses. As Vandyck was on his way from Antwerp to Brussels he halted at the village
of Saventhem, where he fell in love with Anna van Ophem, and so stayed on in the lovely valley
of Flanders, week after week, as if he had forgotten that Italy existed. Anna persuaded him
to paint a picture for the village church, and he executed a Holy Family in which the Virgin
was a portrait of Anna, and St. Joachim and St. Anna were drawn from her father and mother.
This picture pleased the church authorities so much that they gave the young painter an order
for another, which represented St. Martin dividing his cloak with beggars. In this work the
saint was a portrait of Vandyck, and the horse on which he rode was like that which Rubens
had given him.

This picture has quite a history. In 1758 the priest agreed to sell it to a collector from
the Hague for one thousand eight hundred dollars; but when the villagers knew of it they surrounded
the church with clubs and pitchforks, and drove the purchaser away. In 1806, when the French
invaders tried to carry it away, the people again prevented it, and they were forced to call
more soldiers from Brussels before they succeeded in taking it. The St. Martin was placed in
the Gallery of the Louvre, at Paris, but was restored to Saventhem in 1815. About 1850 a rich
American offered twenty thousand dollars for the picture, no matter who brought it to him.
Upon this a set of rogues tried to steal it at night; but the dogs of the village gave such
an alarm that the town was roused, and the robbers escaped with difficulty. Since then a guardian
sleeps in the church, and the St. Martin is still there.

The news that Vandyck was thus lingering on his way to Italy reached the ears of Rubens, and
he sent such urgent messages to his pupil as induced him to continue his journey, and he also
sent him letters of introduction to artists and to nobles whom the master had known when he
made his studies beyond the Alps.

Vandyck went first to Venice, where he worked hard to copy and learn to imitate the rich color
and refined manner of Titian and other Venetian masters. He also painted some original pictures
in Venice, and made many portraits which gave him fame in that and other cities. He was asked
to go to other places for the painting of portraits; but he remained in Venice until his money
was spent, and then went to Genoa, where he was well received and generously employed by the
old friends of Rubens. His works are still to be seen in some of the palaces of that city,
while some have been sold and carried to other countries--they were so fine that they still
maintain the name which they gained for him when they were executed. The principal work done
in Genoa was a picture of the Lomellini family which is now in Edinburgh; it is about nine
feet square. His different visits to Genoa during his absence in Italy make up a period of
about three years, and he did a vast amount of work there.

When he first went to Rome Vandyck was invited to the house of Cardinal Bentivoglio, who had
been papal nuncio to Flanders, and for whom our artist made a picture of the Crucifixion. The
full-length portrait which Vandyck painted of the cardinal is now in Florence; a copy of it
is in one of the halls of Harvard College. It is one of the finest among the many splendid
portraits by this great master.

Vandyck was fascinated with Rome, but he was so unpopular with the other Flemish painters there
that he shortened his stay in the Eternal City in order to escape the vexations he there received.
The artists disliked him for his ostentation, and he was called Il pittore cavalieresco--and
he offended them by declining to associate with them at taverns or to join their coarse festivities.
After leaving Rome he visited Palermo, from which place he was driven away by the appearance
of the plague. He returned to Genoa, visited Florence and other cities in the north of Italy,
and finally returned to Antwerp after an absence of four years.

During the first years after his return he met with small success--Rubens was so great that
he filled all the space about him--but at last, in 1628, Vandyck began to receive important
commissions, and from this time was constantly busy with works for the churches of the Low
Countries. He also painted portraits of many notable persons, and made great numbers of them
in brown and white for the use of engravers. While Vandyck was thus executing great numbers
of fine pictures for the embellishment of Flanders, he became so unpopular and his rivals said
such hard things of him that he determined to go away. One of his unfortunate experiences was
in the house of the bishop, who had sent for him to paint his portrait. Vandyck had first sent
his implements to the care of the porter of the palace. When he went himself he was taken into
the presence of the bishop, who was reclining on a sofa, and gave little attention to the artist.
At last the bishop asked if he had not come to paint his portrait. Vandyck declared himself
to be quite at the service of his lordship. "Why, then," said the bishop, "do you not go for
your implements? Do you expect me to fetch them for you?" Vandyck calmly replied, "Since you
have not ordered your servants to bring them I supposed that you wished to do it yourself."
Then the bishop leaped up in anger and cried out, "Anthony, Anthony, you are a little asp,
but you have a great deal of venom!" Vandyck thought it safe to make his escape, and after
he crossed the threshold he called back, "My lord Van der Burch, you are a voluminous personage,
but you are like the cinnamon tree. The bark is the best part of you."

In 1629 Vandyck went to England with the hope of being employed by King Charles I.; but he
was not able even to get an introduction to the sovereign, and went to the continent filled
with mortification. At length, however, Charles called him to London, whither he went in 1632,
and soon became the friend of the king as well as his favorite artist. He was assigned a city
and a country residence, and within three months of the time of his arrival at court the king
knighted him, and gave him a gold chain with a portrait of himself set in brilliants suspended
from it. Charles was in the habit of passing much time with Vandyck, and the studio of the
court-painter became one of the most fashionable resorts in London for the courtiers and other
distinguished people.

Vandyck kept up a fine establishment, and lived luxuriously. He had a habit of asking his sitters
to dinner; thus he could study their faces and retouch their portraits with the more natural
expressions of their conversational hours, for it is rare that one is natural when posing before
an artist who is painting one's portrait. But in the midst of his busy life as an artist and
his gay life as a man of the world, Sir Anthony did not forget the needs of his brother painters.
There was at that time no club or place where artists met socially to consult and aid each
other in their profession. Vandyck founded the Club of St. Luke; it met at the Rose Tavern,
and all painters of talent living in London joined it. One of the more personal acts of kindness
which are related of him is that having seen by chance a picture which was painted by William
Dobson, Vandyck sought him out, found him in a poor garret, instructed him with great care,
introduced him to the king, and, in short, by his kind offices so prepared the way that Dobson
was made sergeant-painter to the king after Vandyck's death, and won the title of "the English
Tintoretto."

The portraits which Vandyck executed in England are numbered by hundreds and are magnificent
pictures. Those of the royal family are very numerous and important, and there is scarcely
a man or woman belonging to this period whose name has come down to us in history or literature,
whose portrait he did not paint. He also made thirteen portraits of himself which are still
preserved. He was very skilful in painting horses and dogs, and frequently introduced these
animals into his portrait groups.

There is a large collection of the pictures of Vandyck at Windsor Castle; there are many also
in the private galleries of Great Britain and other countries, besides a goodly number in the
public galleries of Europe. He executed at least thirty-six portraits of Charles I., as many
as twenty-five of Queen Henrietta Maria, and he also painted several groups of the children
of the royal pair. Prince Rupert of the Rhine and Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Strafford, were
also frequently portrayed by him, and one of his most important large works was a family picture
of the Earl of Pembroke and his household. It is called the Wilton Family, as it is in a salon
at Wilton House; it contains eleven figures, and has been called "the first and most magnificent
historic portraiture in the world." Again, it is said to be stiff, wanting in harmony, bad
in color, and so on, but after all it still remains a splendid monument to the skill and genius
of Vandyck. The picture is twenty feet long by twelve feet high.

Vandyck painted no portraits of the Puritans nor popular leaders of his day; neither did he
of the literary men who flourished at that time, with the exception of the court poets, Sir
John Suckling and Thomas Carew.

I shall not give a list of Vandyck's historical and religious pictures, though they are quite
numerous. They are not as interesting as his portraits, and we have not space to give them.
His ambition, however, was never satisfied, for he wished to do some great historical work.
At one time his opportunity seemed to have come, for the great banqueting-room of Whitehall
Palace, the ceiling of which Rubens had painted, still remained with plain walls. Vandyck desired
to paint on them the history of the Order of the Garter. The project was laid before the king,
and he desired sketches to be made for the work, and one of them, the "Procession of the Knights
of the Garter," was sold after the execution of the king for five pounds. It was owned by Sir
Peter Lely and Sir Joshua Reynolds, and is now at Belvoir in the collection of the Duke of
Rutland. We cannot help being sorry for Vandyck's great disappointment when he knew that his
work could not be done. He was weak in health and much in debt, for the king could not pay
him his pension nor what he owed him for pictures. The artist grew sad and discouraged. He
sought relief in the study of alchemy, and indulged the vain hope of discovering some chemical
means of making gold from base metals. All this wasted his time and means, and it is to be
regretted that he was less wise than his master, for when an alchemist tried to interest Rubens
in the same subject, that great artist replied: "You come too late, my good fellow; I have
long since discovered the philosopher's stone. My palette and brushes are worth far more than
any other secret."

The king and all Vandyck's friends were troubled by his state of health and mind, and a marriage
was brought about for him with the hope that he would be a happier man. His wife was Maria
Ruthven, a lovely Scotch girl who held a high position among the attendants of the queen. Not
long after his marriage Vandyck took her to Flanders, where he enjoyed much the honorable reception
which he met with in revisiting the scenes of his childhood and youth. But having learned that
Louis XIII. was about to adorn a large gallery in the Louvre, Vandyck hastened to Paris hoping
to obtain the commission. He was too late--the work had been given to Poussin, and Vandyck
returned to London greatly disheartened.

While at Antwerp he had received much attention, as, indeed, had been the case before, for
in 1634 he had been elected Dean of the Confraternity of St. Luke and a great feast was held
in his honor. When he came now to London the social atmosphere was full of sadness. The political
troubles, which were finally so terrible in England, had already become alarming. In a few
months the Earl of Strafford was executed, and Vandyck saw the royal family, to whom he was
so much attached, surrounded with danger and at last separated.

His physical health was already delicate, and his sorrows brought on a disease from which he
soon died. He continued to work until the very last days of his life. Eight days before his
death his daughter was born; she was named Justiniana, and when she grew up married an English
baronet, Sir John Stepney.

A short time before Vandyck died the king came from the North to London, and though he was
overburdened with his own cares and griefs he found time to sorrow for the condition of his
friend and artist. He offered his physician three hundred pounds if he would save the life
of Sir Anthony; but nothing availed to baffle his disease, and he died December 9, 1641. Two
days later he was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. It is said that many nobles and artists attended
his funeral, which was conducted with impressive ceremony. The fire which destroyed St. Paul's
made it impossible to say exactly where Vandyck was laid, but his coffin-plate was found at
the time of the burial of Benjamin West.

There were no artists of importance after the time of Rubens and his followers whom we call
Flemish artists. There were good painters, certainly, belonging to the schools of Flanders;
but these schools had reached their highest excellence and were on the decline, and so we pass
to the Dutch school, or the painters of Holland.

There was doubtless a very early school of Dutch painters, dating back to the fourteenth century
even; but the records of it are so imperfect, and so few pictures remain from its early days,
that for our purpose it is best to pass over the fifteenth century and say that during the
sixteenth century the painters of Holland gave up the painting of sacred subjects very largely,
and began to take on the characteristics of what is generally known now as the Dutch School.
This school is distinguished for its portraits, which form a large and important part of its
painting; next for its domestic scenes, which are realistic and true to life in an astonishing
degree.

At the beginning of the seventeenth century Holland had obtained a position as a nation that
freed its artists from the influence of the Romish Church and the fear of the Inquisition,
and they soon used their freedom to establish a national art, and one which became very important
to the world. FRANZ HALS (1584-1666) was the most noteworthy of the portrait-painters. He was
born at Mechlin, but passed most of his life at Haarlem. There was a custom in Holland of painting
portraits of the members of guilds and societies in groups, and some such works of his at Haarlem
are very fine. I have told a story of his rapid manner in the sketch of Vandyck. He was the
first master to introduce that free, bold, sleight-of-hand manner which was afterward used
by the Dutch masters, and is so strong in its effect. This painter led a merry, careless life.
His portraits of single heads or figures are rare, and his small genre subjects still more
so. In the Hôtel de Ville at Haarlem there are as many as eight of his large works, most of
them having ten or a dozen portraits.

The Dutch painters of still-life--flowers, dead game and poultry, and metals, glass, and other
beautiful objects--were very skilful, and have never been surpassed. The names of these masters
would make a long list. There is little to be told of the circumstances of their lives, though
their works are seen in most European galleries, and well repay one for careful examination.

Another form of Dutch art is the representation of scenes from peasant life, and there were
some very eminent painters who devoted themselves to these subjects entirely. The interiors
of inns with men smoking and drinking, playing cards or making jokes, were subjects many times
repeated; dancing villagers, fêtes, and fairs were often pictured, and in all these scenes
everything was given exactly to the life. It follows that these pictures of coarse, vulgar
people engaged in rude amusements cannot be beautiful; but they are oftentimes wonderful. Among
the most noted names in this kind of painting are those of Adrian Brauwer, the Van Ostades,
the Teniers, and Jan Steen. Most of these artists executed small pictures only. I shall speak
particularly of but one of these Dutch genre painters--DAVID TENIERS the younger (1610-1694),
who became the greatest painter of his time of scenes from common life. This is very great
praise, because there were many Dutch and several Flemish painters who were noted for such
pictures. This Teniers studied with his father, but his works show that he was much influenced
by Rubens. He excelled in guard-house scenes and peasant life in every aspect. In representations
of the alchemist also he was unequalled, as well as in fairs and festivals of every sort. He
sometimes painted sacred subjects, but they are the least praiseworthy of all his works.

The pictures of Teniers are very numerous. One author describes nine hundred of his works which
are known to be genuine, and it is believed that there may be one hundred more. He often represented
a great number of figures on one canvas. At Schleissheim there was a large picture, thirteen
and a half feet by ten feet in size, which contained one thousand one hundred and thirty-eight
figures. It was not unusual for him to paint from one hundred and fifty to three hundred figures
in a single picture of moderate size. He had a light, brilliant touch, his color was exquisite,
and his arrangement of his subjects was very picturesque. His chief fault was a resemblance
in his heads, and for this reason those pictures with the fewest figures are his best works.

Teniers had several royal patrons, and earned sufficient money to live in handsome style in
his home in Perck, not far from Mechlin. He chose this place in order to be near the peasant
classes, whose life was his chief study. He also excelled in his ability to imitate the styles
of other masters. In the Vienna Gallery there is a curious work of his which represents the
walls of a room hung with fifty pictures, imitating those of various Italian masters; in the
foreground are portraits of Teniers and the Archduke Leopold William, who are represented as
conversing with each other.

Teniers reached his excellence early in life, and was but twenty-two years old when he was
admitted to the Guild of Painters at Antwerp. That Rubens was his friend is proved by the fact
that when Teniers married the daughter of Jan Breughel, in 1637, that great master was one
of the witnesses to the ceremony. In 1656 he married his second wife, the daughter of the Secretary
of State for Brabant. By his artistic and personal merits Teniers gained a higher place in
society than was ever held by any other genre painter of the Flemish or Dutch schools. He was
eighty-four years old when he died, and was active and industrious up to the close of his life.

Although Teniers had such good fortune during his life, I fancy he would have been surprised
if he could have known what his fame would be now, or what prices would be paid for his pictures
about two centuries after his death. The "Flemish Kermes" was bought for the Brussels Museum
in 1867 for twenty-five thousand dollars, and at the San Donato sale, in 1880, the "Prodigal
Son" sold for sixteen thousand two hundred dollars, and the "Five Senses" for fifteen thousand
dollars. It is difficult to distinguish the etchings of the son from those of the father, David
Teniers the elder, though it is well known that the son executed such works.

GERARD HONTHORST (1592-1660) was also a painter of genre scenes, and many of his works had
figures of life size. His chief distinction, however, was that of painting the effects of artificial
lights. He was famous in England and Italy as well as in his own country, and the Italians
called him "Gherardo della Notte," or Gerard of the Night, because he painted so many night-scenes
lighted by candles, lamps, and torches.

Then there was a class of Dutch artists who represented the interiors of fine houses--rooms
with all sorts of beautiful furniture and ornaments, with ladies and gentlemen in splendid
costumes. They tried to show the effects of light upon satins, glass, metals, and other shining
objects. They painted with great care, and finished their pictures in the most perfect manner.
GERHARD TERBURG (1608-1681), GERHARD DOW (1613-1675), and GABRIEL METSU (1615-after 1667) were
all remarkable for works of this kind.

PIETER DE HOOGE, who worked from 1628 to 1671, and of whose life little is known, painted similar
pictures of court-yards as well as of rooms in houses. The list of the names of all these Dutch
masters cannot be given here, and I hasten to tell you of one whose name and fame is so great
that when we hear of Dutch art we always think first of him, because he stands out as its head.

REMBRANDT VAN RYN (1607-1669) was born at Leyden, and was educated by his parents with the
hope that he would be a scholar and a prominent man in Leyden. But his taste for drawing and
painting would not be put aside, and in 1620 he entered the studio of J. J. van Swanenburg,
where he learned the first lessons in his art, and was then placed under the teaching of Pieter
Lastman in Amsterdam, where he remained only six months, after which he returned to his father's
house, and there lived for seven years. He was not far from seventeen years old when he thus
left the usual course of study. From this time he gave himself up to close observation of nature
in every form.

He studied broad landscapes--farms, groves, gardens, rivers, canals, sunshine, clouds, and
shadows, and with and above all these, the human faces that he saw, as well as the varying
forms, movements, and peculiarities of the men and women about him. That nothing escaped his
observation is proved by the works he did in later life.

In 1630 Rembrandt settled in Amsterdam, which was called the "Venice of the North," and was
the centre of northern commerce, civilization, and the activity of political and intellectual
life. Many outstanding people, whose
names are immortalized in the history of the family have heard. From grandmotherly Side they come from
Holland, where the first record at Lord Afferden end of the 14th Century and beginning until
the present time have gone out completely. The offspring of Lords later emigrated to America and
settled around the year 1650 in Long Iceland at. The Grandmother Katherine Reeder was related
to the Governor Andrew H. Reeder, the had in Kansas in 1854, holding the reins of government.
Paternal ancestors, the be attributed to John Wright, in 1538 the estate Kelvedon Hall in a circle
Essex acquired in England. His wife Olive and his descendant in the fourth degree, Samuel
Wright, emigrated to America in 1630 and moved six years later as a farmer in Springfield in Massachusetts.
Here he soon became a deacon of the first Puritan church and later chosen as pastor of the church.
After he passed away gently beneficent work in 1665 to Northampton. His descendants remained
in New England and some famous people are from they emerged. Examples are Edmond Freeman, the
Rev. Joshua Moody, the Rev. John Russell, John Otis, and John Porter in Windsor. The last of
the Wright's become used with the famous American General Ulysses S. Grant and President Grover Cleveland;
Furthermore, with the famous General Joseph Warren at Bunker Hill. The grandfather Wright,
Silas Wright was Senator of New York and later governor of New York. He owned extensive capital goods
for their management, he took care of itself. His children were also brought up to country
people. He died in New York in 1847.

We Germans have the fame, the first flying man, a flying machine without
Motor sailed through the air to be able to call our countryman.

We are united but also Relationship with the kings of aviation, with Wright. The maternal grandfather,
John G. Koerner, was born in a small town near Schleiz in the Principality Reuss Younger Line.
The wife of the 86th Koerner late years of life, a born Fry was an American, from landing German
language region, probably Switzerland, to arise; the lack of details. Her daughter was on 30
April 1831 in Hillsborough born in Virginia. In 1859 she married, which is now with her family
to a farm of Union County moved to Indiana, was the youngest of 5 children with Milton Wright, father
of two Aeronaut. This is on 17 November 1828 in Rush County, born in Indiana. He followed the professions
of his earliest ancestors, and held his first sermon at age 22 on 17 November 1850th As a result
of an excellent education that he had given his father will leave, he brought it soon in the
holy orders of high dignitaries. He was a traveling minister of the Lutheran Brethren, President
of the Church Council, and held office for 24 years as a bishop. The fulfillment of his work has
meant that he and many great trips for inspection of the various parishes under his executed,
but he has not less than 200,000 miles in an official capacity by measuring the train. acquired on his
travels He is a practical view and great understanding for the different positions in life;
he let his children be given an excellent education and school education. Sorry his wife died on
4 July 1889 to Dayton in Ohio. The death had a long and relieved severe pain. Especially Wilbur
Wright had tried his mother's last to facilitate years of life, so it therefore also a special
recognition of his father has been bestowed.

Milton Wright had seven children, of whom five are currently alive. Wilbur, the 16. Born Apr 1867
in Henry County, the third son. He was followed on 19 August 1871 Orville and 19 August 1874 Katherine,
who were both born in Dayton.

Strange is an indication of the old bishop, that it is the inventor not such a good education
have enjoyed as his other children. Neither of them attended a university, both have worked
up by their own intelligence in the art of important position.

Wilbur seems justified in his youth, first not to great hopes, though He was very intelligent
and a quick learner possessed.

The first interest in aeronautics was awakened when the brothers in the summer of 1878, when her
Father came home one day and suddenly out of his hands a toy in the
air Screw Airplanes - - is known, had it still under the name Helicopter
fly.

This little item was made of a framework of bamboo and cork and gently with Paper pasted over.
The screws were in by a strong band of rubber cords movement set that has been twisted together
tightly. Only a short time remained fragile toy in the hands of the boys get, but the memory
of that first flight tests firmly adhered in memory of both. A few years later she began her
own old toys and pays where they made the one always bigger than the other. But they made the peculiar
Experience that the larger aircraft flew from bad to worse. Finally, they were in Her other
experiments discouraged and turned their interest to the kite flying, a Sport, in America, by
the Franklin's kite ascents to study electrical phenomena most widely found. As they grew older,
they also gave the sport took care of that, they said themselves, not for boys their age.

Only the experiments of Lilienthal and especially thinking about his tragic death sparked in
them the old passion for aviation technology again. They studied with great interest the Works of Chanute,
Marcy, Langley, Mouillard and other on progress and investigations flight of the technical
problem, and soon they moved on to practical experiments.

The citizens of Dayton, who somehow came into close contact with Wilbur and Orville Wright
are, have the time to the author against the very modest nature of the two praised. Especially, they
pointed out how the inventor worked up from humble did and with great
diligence their bicycle factory a reputation far beyond their hometown
were secured.

Their diverse training has also been recognized, and you could be in their society to convince how
good they were versed in the literature, in Music, art, and even in painting. You are not one-sided
fanatic flight engineer, but to trace all progress of aerial navigation and break not about the staff
over competitors who are active in the field of aerostatic air shipping.

They have learned in their own factory as regular workers, and the French were surprised when
they saw Wilbur Wright at Le Mans by hand and without any foreign Aid workers in overalls his
machine composed. However, he possessed a certain distrust, based on the many bad experiences.
For example, he wanted a piano wire only use the material which he
had brought from America.

He was just too aware that with such a delicate machine, as it is a hang glider, also on the
Least important matter, if you want to achieve success.

The timeliness of the brothers is also quite outstanding. All meetings start to follow at the minute, and
never needs a worker appointed for a moment on her show maintain.

In the deserts at Kill Devil they had learned to live a very simple
field life.

In Le Mans, Wilbur Wright was sleeping in a single bed, really just great in a box which was
drawn during the day using a rope to the ceiling and at night on the floor took place next to
his plane.

Here, the pilot scale consisted of only raw cobbled together Boards, and the room was not pleasant,
as the wind above the level of firing range can then rush to Auvours with undiminished force. However,
they have lived in Pau a more comfortable quarters, but still against the simplest room of
a simple Hotels to mention modest.

Both brothers are of great moderation, but once someone on closer acquaintance have come to appreciate,
so they thaw a bit more. One has the feeling that you people from has, to which one can rely
in all respects and in all situations of life.

Your silence has become well known enough. Your face is usually very serious; But on closer traffic
lightens the friendly eye on bright Wilbur Wright. Your peace they never lose. Whether in the
fields of thousands of spectators waiting for a flight, if Prince or business people who intended
to buy their patents, were among them, never left them to push something that they did not want,
never mislead they could be a Flight test car in a weather that was unfavorable to them. The stature
of the two is medium in size. Wilbur is 1.80 meters with something bigger than his brother Orville.
Both are very slim and only show muscles and tendons. One can see that they are her life with
a sports have occupied, which is mainly a good eye and great presence of mind arrives. In their
way of life they are always very sober and abstemious been. Also in the most solemn occasions they could
not move, alcohol to ingest. They are pious, not outwardly before the eyes of the people but
from an inner feeling. This is easily understandable when the old Bishop Wright, who enjoys
the highest reputation as a priest, thinks. Thus they are today but not young, in her life has never been
a hour of devotion It missed and taken for granted, keeping the Sundays of every kind of work.

The
evolution of gliding.

On a more practical understanding of the first work of the Wright brothers, it is necessary the
development of aviation technology in Germany to consider. Here it was the engineer Otto Lilienthal managed
to fly through the air as the first person to several 100 meters.

Further technical circles, he has also become known as the inventor
of an excellent Small motor, which appeared at that time particularly
suitable for air shipping purposes, but unfortunately was not appreciated
in the right way.

On the work of this eminent man We must therefore proceed now to consider more closely.

Otto Lilienthal was on 24 May 1848 to Anklam born in Pomerania. Even as a boy of 13 Years he
has combined with his still-in capital from Berlin-based brother Lichterfelde Gustav trying
to fly with the most primitive means. The first wing, which the brothers built consisted of flaps,
which were attached to the arms. The experiments were usually running at night because the
boys were afraid of the ridicule of their school fellows.

They tried to pending to get into the air by running down a hill with their flaps. Long Years,
then abandoned the fly experiments. While a student at the Berlin Industrial Academy , Otto Lilienthal
made in the years 1867/68 to its complicated apparatus, the four small and two large wings possessed
alternately up and down beat. He managed raise in the experiments by his leg movement, a weight
of 40 kilograms.

By some fellow students had the math professor is the work of Lilienthal and did not tell him to leave,
it could not hurt so, when it focuses on aeronautical Calculations pass the time, he might but
for heaven's sake not money for such things ! Spend At that time, by the state by a special
committee learned just noticed was that the man is a not for all,
could fly, and it was therefore easy to understand that those who
dealt with the problem of flight, stopped right for fools.

After the war, 1870-71, in the Otto Lilienthal as a one-year volunteer of the Guard Fusiliers
- beetles called - join in the siege of Paris, the flight tests with better technical Means in accordance
with the most thorough studies and experiments resumed, with his Brother Gustav actively supported
him. The machines consisted of very simple curved Sailing apparatus,
which resembled the outstretched wings of a hovering bird.

As a frame willow served as a reference with wax impregnated Shirting. Captured was handled and the apparatus in
that you put both forearms in appropriate padding of the frame and touched two handles. The wing
surfaces were initially 10, later 8 square meters at a spread is 7 meters and 2 meters, the
greatest depth. Also, 14 square meters Wings were to be used occasionally, her weight was 20 kilograms,
came to the weight by Lilienthal, 80 kilograms, so that a total of 100 kg placed to float had
to be.

The simple sails Lilienthal added later added tax surfaces, a better attitude to reach into the
wind. The whole design of the flight was like sailing in all parts of a truss, whose individual
members only to train and pressure were claimed. Greatest strength was thus associated with the
greatest of ease. He often threw himself with any of these sailing Heights in the air and always
reached the ground safely again.

In order to facilitate the transportation of the apparatus and it may be occurring before a
storm secure, the machine was set up so that they folded in half a minute could be. The separation
took place also only two minutes.

The spread Wings could even find protection from the rain, 20 people were under the protective
Shell space.

Was introduced by the flying Abschweben against the wind from an elevated position. At the first
jump was the height of the diving board one, then two meters.

Six to seven meters long jumps of five meters high, were obtained with starting. The landing
took place already extremely easy. The sliding and gliding, which also in recent times in the
members of the Silesian Aviation Club has found devotees must be executed according to the data
of Lilienthal as follows:

"You walk with drooping wings and the wind down, aimed at the right
moment the support surface by a few, so is the fact that they lie
nearly horizontal, and seeks then, now hovering in the air by the
gravity of the apparatus in such a position admit that he quickly
put fires and cuts as little as possible.

Beginners are well To do to choose a mountain slope, over which they glide at low altitude.
The first rule is to keep my legs stretched out forward and landing with your upper body back
on throw, so that the device sits up and slow down the movement. The flying up and the descent
must always be directed precisely against the wind. The vertical fixed Tax will make sure that
in the rest of the apparatus is adjusted exactly to the wind. The horizontal control surface prevents
as you can see this is translated to any crow, that the apparatus forward rolls over, what else like
curved surfaces. On landing but may not prevent the horizontal control the rapid erection of
the apparatus, it must stand up by turning the air pressure coming from below to its leading edge
can So only the stroke may have down.

"Especially is to warn against the following error: The student is in the air and feels suddenly
raised by the wind, as usual uneven: for example, the left wing more than the right. Drives
him to lean over to the right. Involuntarily stretched The newcomer to the right and his legs
because he foresees the impact to the ground to the right.

The result is that the underlying right wing is already charged more, and the Flight to the right
quickly descends to the right wing tip sit in the ground and crumple. Less danger to life and
limb is present, because the machine is on all sides an effective buffer work that catches
the brunt of the impact. "

Deviations from the straight direction by laying the center of gravity to one or other side effects by
stretching the legs, which indicate the direction of distraction.

Multiple Lilienthal succeeded in this way even to perform a complete rotation, so he flew back
to its departure point. The influence of the wind was evident in
the Try fly striking.

Once a bit more lively wind came, he floated high above the Heads of the astonished crowd
away, possibly even right now in the air in one place consistently float.

Lilienthal felt very uncomfortable with his more flights, sudden gusts of wind, because they existed
at the risk that - if only for a moment - the apparatus of could
take up so he would have infallibly fallen into the depths and crashed.

Among

the biggest area - 14 square meters - a lost Lilienthal stability. At the same time he was also the
landing in strong winds and large areas very dubious. As He himself says he often has to perform
in the air, a formal dance to, with the wind thrown back and forth
to maintain the balance, but always he managed to be happy .

Land He was thus forced, however, led to the attempts to drive it and to improve ease of use.

At
first he had caused the steering system by simple installation of gravity with his body, the
less so proceeded, the smaller the leaf surfaces were. Now, with stronger Winch the application
no particular benefit granted to small areas, but the Need out, to win a larger area for lifting,
he tried two parallel surfaces to attach to each other. It did so surprisingly well. The double
apparatus was only 5-1/2 feet span with two supporting surfaces of
each 9 square feet, the upper There was something on the bottom.

The height reached was very much greater, often was a significant Abfliegepunkt Piece flew
over as soon as the winds were strong to over 10 meters per second.

On landing at low winds, the apparatus had lifted the front of the body by putting back and
then just above the bottom of the legs as in the leap and be accused
of fast, there would otherwise receive the body a very unpleasant
shock.

At slightly stronger winds however, lowered the machine is very gentle to the earth.

The listed exercises Lilienthal has always felt the lifting force of the wind clear and he explicitly
says that the wind would have a movement similar to the groups of birds turn and take the apparatus
to the left or right do, but due to the proximity of the mountain, of which he was gone, it
should not have been involved with it.

As Uebungsplatz to Lilienthal in 1891 had a favorable place between United and Werder Cross chosen
to reach out to large exposed heights a jump from 5 to 6 meters left. Here he made his experiments
jointly with a technician's machine shop, Hugo Eulitz.

The current professor at the Meteorological Institute of Berlin, Dr. Kassner has that time many excellent
photographs of Lilienthal and his assistant made, The Frankfurt on the Luftschiffahrts exhibition
are on display. The flight continued to grow here to 20-25 meters. In 1892, he studied the then 10-meter
high slopes at the south end and Steglitz on. In the beginning of the following year he established
the Maihöhe Steglitz in a shed, so that he received a jump height of 10 meters. End of that year
he moved away then Rhinower the mountains between Rathenow and Dosse where ridges up to 60 meters
. Are On the Stöller mountains, he found even a drop height of 80 meters. The reduction the
hill was about 10 to 20 degrees.

As Lilienthal first practiced here, he was very anxious. He himself said: "When I was in this
Month period, for the first time on this downhill slope of my plane, I was overcome of course,
a slightly anxious feeling as I said, From here you shall now in
the deep down there lying, sprawling country to sail!

 At length, in 1505, he made a
journey to Venice, partly for his health, and in order to study Venetian painting. He was well
received by the painters of Venice. Giovanni Bellini and Carpaccio were the leading painters
of that time. They were both quite old, but Giorgione and Titian were already coming into notice
and preparing to fill the places of the older men. Bellini was especially delighted with the
exquisite manner in which Dürer painted hair, and asked the German to give him the brush he
used for that purpose. Dürer gave him all his brushes, but Bellini insisted upon having the
one for painting hair. Dürer took a common brush, and painted a long tress of fine hair: Bellini
declared that had he not seen this done he could not have believed it.

While in Venice Dürer received an order to paint a picture for the Fondaco de' Tedeschi, or
German Exchange. It is believed that this work was the famous "Feast of Rose Garlands," now
in the Monastery at Strahow, in Bohemia. The Emperor Rudolph II. bought it, and had it carried
from Venice to Prague on men's shoulders. In 1782 it was purchased for the Abbey of Strahow,
and was almost lost to the world for many years. It is a beautiful picture, and the praise
it received was a great pleasure to Dürer, because heretofore many painters had said that he
was a good engraver, but could not use colors. Dürer wrote to Pirkheimer: "There is no better
picture of the Virgin Mary in the land, because all the artists praise it, as well as the nobility.
They say they have never seen a more sublime, a more charming painting."

The Venetian Government offered Dürer a handsome pension if he would remain in Venice, and
he declined many orders for the sake of returning to Germany, which he believed to be his duty.
From the time of his return, in 1507, to 1520, there is very little to tell of the personal
history of this artist. Almost all that can be said is that he labored with great industry;
it was the golden period of his art; he had many young men in his studio, which was the centre
of art to Nuremburg. At this time he probably executed the best carvings which he ever did.
During seven years he made forty-eight engravings and etchings and more than a hundred wood-cuts.
The large demand for these works was a source of good income to Dürer, and gave him a position
of comfort. The Reformation was at hand, and Dürer's Virgins and Saints and his pictures of
the sufferings of Christ were very well suited to the religious excitement of that period.

The house in which Dürer lived and worked for many years is still preserved in Nuremburg as
public property, and is used as an art gallery. The street on which it stands is now called
the Albrecht-Dürer Strasse. On the square before the house stands a bronze statue of the master
which was erected by the Nuremburgers on the three hundredth anniversary of his death.

About 1509 Dürer occupied himself considerably in writing poetry; but, although there was much
earnest feeling in his verse, it was not such as to give him great fame as a poet. It was at
the same period that he carved the wonderful bas-relief of the "Birth of John the Baptist,"
now in the British Museum. It is cut out of stone, is seven and one-half by five and one-half
inches in size, and is a marvellous piece of work. Two thousand five hundred dollars were paid
for it nearly a century ago. He made many exquisite little carvings in stone, ivory, and boxwood,
and in these articles the result of his work as a goldsmith is best seen.

In 1512 Dürer was first employed by the Emperor Maximilian, and for the next seven years there
was a close relation between the sovereign and the artist; but there are few records concerning
it. It is said that one day when the painter was making a sketch of the emperor the latter
took a charcoal crayon, and tried to draw a picture himself: he constantly broke the crayon,
and made no progress toward his end. After watching him for a time Dürer took the charcoal
from Maximilian, saying, "This is my sceptre, your Majesty;" and he then taught the emperor
how to use it.

Dürer executed some very remarkable drawings and engravings. Among them was the "Triumphal
Arch of Maximilian," composed of ninety-two blocks. The whole cut is ten and one-half feet
high by nine feet wide. It shows all the remarkable events in the emperor's life, just as such
subjects were carved upon the triumphal arches of the Romans and other nations. Hieronymus
Rösch did the engraving of this great work from Dürer's blocks, and while it was in progress
the emperor went often to see it. During one of these visits several cats ran into the room,
from which happening arose the proverb, "A cat may look at a king."

The emperor granted Dürer a pension; but it was never regularly paid, and after the emperor's
death the Council of Nuremburg refused to pay it unless it was confirmed by the new sovereign,
Charles V. For the purpose of obtaining this confirmation Dürer made a journey to the Netherlands
in the year 1520. His wife and her maid Susanna went with him. His diary gives a quaint account
of the places they visited, the people whom they met, and of the honors which were paid him.
In Antwerp he was received with great kindness, and the government of the city offered him
a house and a liberal pension if he would remain there; but his love for his native town would
not allow him to leave it.

After several months Dürer received the confirmation of his pension and also the appointment
of court-painter. This last office was of very little account to him. The emperor spent little
time at Nuremburg, and it was not until he was older that he was seized with the passion of
having his portrait painted, and then Dürer had died, and Titian was painter to the court.

When Dürer returned to his home there was quite an excitement over the collection of curious
and rare objects which he had made while absent. Some of these he had bought, and many others
were gifts to him, and he gave much pleasure to his friends by displaying them. There had been
a great change in Nuremburg, for the doctrines of the Reformation were accepted by many of
its people, and it was the first free city that declared itself Protestant. The change, too,
was quietly made; its convents and churches were saved from violence, and the art treasures
of the city were not destroyed. Among the most important Lutherans was Pirkheimer, Dürer's
friend. We do not know that Dürer became a Lutheran, but he wrote of his admiration for the
great reformer in his diary, and it is a meaning fact that during the last six years of his
life Dürer made no more pictures of the Madonna.

These last years were not as full of work as the earlier ones had been. A few portraits and
engravings and the pictures of the Four Apostles were about all the works of this time. He
gave much attention to the arrangement and publication of his writings upon various subjects
connected with the arts. These books gave him much fame as a scholar, and some of them were
translated into several languages.

As an architect Dürer executed but little work; but his writings upon architectural subjects
prove that he was learned in its theories.

During several years his health was feeble, and he exerted himself to make provision for his
old age if he should live, or for his wife after his death. He was saddened by the thought
that he had never been rewarded as he should have been for his hard, faithful labors, and his
latest letters were sad and touching. He died in April, 1528, after a brief illness, and was
buried in the cemetery of St. John, beyond the walls, where a simple epitaph was inscribed
upon his monument. This cemetery is an interesting place, and contains the graves of many men
noted in the chronicles of Nuremburg.

On Easter Sunday in 1828, three hundred years after his death, a Dürer celebration was held
in Nuremburg. Artists came from all parts of Germany. A solemn procession proceeded to his
grave, where hymns were sung, and the statue by Rauch, near Dürer's house, was dedicated.

I can give you no description of Dürer's many works, and although it is true that he was a
very great master, yet it is also true that his pictures and engravings are not noted for their
beauty so much as for their strength and power. His subjects were often ugly and repulsive
rather than beautiful, and his imagination was full of weird, strange fancies that can scarcely
be understood. Indeed, some of them never have been explained, and one of his most famous engravings,
called "The Knight, Death, and the Devil," has never yet been satisfactorily interpreted, and
many different theories have been made about it.

Many of the principal galleries of Europe have Dürer's paintings, though they are not as numerous
as his engravings, and, indeed, his fame rests more upon the latter than the former, and very
large sums are paid by collectors for good impressions of his more important plates.

Dürer had several followers. His most gifted scholar was LUCAS SUNDER (1472-1553), who is called
Lucas Cranach, from the place of his birth. He established a school of painting in Saxony,
and was appointed court-painter. Although there were a goodly number of German painters late
in the sixteenth century, there were none of great eminence, and, in truth, there have been
few since that time whose lives were of sufficient interest to be recounted here, so I shall
tell you of but one more before passing to the artists of Spain.

ANGELICA KAUFFMAN (1742-1808) was a very interesting woman who gained a good reputation as
an artist; but there is such a difference of opinion among judges as to her merits as a painter
that it is difficult to decide what to say of her. As a person, she excited an interest in
her lifetime which has never died out, and Miss Thackeray's novel, "Miss Angel," tells what
is claimed to be her story, as nearly as such stories are told in novels.

She was born at Coire, in the Grisons. Her father was an artist, a native of Schwarzenburg,
and when Angelica was born he was occupied in executing some frescoes at Coire. When the child
was a year old he settled at Morbegno, in Lombardy, and ten years later, when she had shown
a taste for music, her parents again removed to Como, where there were better opportunities
for her instruction. Her progress in music was remarkable, and for a time she was unable to
say whether she loved this art or that of painting the better. Later in life she painted a
picture in which she represented herself, as a child, standing between allegorical figures
of Music and Painting.

The beautiful scenery about Como, the stately palaces and charming villas, the lake with its
pleasure boats, and all the poetry of the life there, tended to develop her talents rapidly,
and, though she remained but two years, the recollection of this time was a pleasure to her
through all her life. She was next taken to Milan, where a world of art was opened to her,
and she saw pictures which excelled all her imaginations. The works of Leonardo and other great
Lombard masters stirred her soul to its very depths. She soon attracted attention by her pictures,
and Robert d'Este became her patron, and placed her under the care of the Duchess of Carrara.
She was now daily associated with people of culture and elegance, and thus early in her life
acquired the modest dignity and self-possession which enabled her in her future life to accept
becomingly the honors and attentions which were paid her.

Her mother's death occurred at Milan, and her father returned to Schwarzenburg. The people
about her were so coarse and disagreeable to Angelica that she passed much of her time in the
grand forests. At this time she painted frescoes of the Twelve Apostles, copied from the engravings
after Piazetta. Her father was not content to remain away from Italy, and they went again to
Milan, then to Florence, and at last to Rome. She was now eighteen years old, and found much
profit in the friendship of the great scholar Winckelmann, who allowed her to paint his portrait.
Angelica visited Naples and Bologna also, and finally Venice, where she met Lady Wentworth,
who became her friend, and afterward took her to England.

She had a most brilliant career in London, where her friends were in the highest rank of society.
De Rossi described her appearance at this time, and said that she was not very tall, but had
a slight, elegant figure. Her complexion was dark and clear, her mouth well formed, her teeth
white and even, and all her features good. He speaks of her azure eyes, so placid and bright
that their expression had a charm which could not be described. No one felt like criticising
her. Other artists paid her many honors, and she was made a member of the Academy of Arts.
It has been said that Fuseli, the learned art critic, and Sir Joshua Reynolds, the great artist,
both asked her hand in marriage. Some members of the royal family became her friends, and she
was at the height of honorable success and of happiness.

It is painful to turn from this bright picture of her life to all the sorrow and darkness which
followed it. She made an unhappy marriage, her husband proving to be an adventurer who had
assumed a distinguished name. For a time she was crushed by this sorrow; but her friends remained
true to her, and she found relief in absolute devotion to her art. For twelve years she supported
herself and her father; then his health failed, and it was thought best for him to go to Italy.
Angelica was now forty years old, and before leaving England she married Antonio Zucchi, an
artist who had long been her friend. He devoted himself to her and to her father with untiring
affection, and when the old man died he was happy in the thought that his beloved daughter
had so true a friend as Zucchi.

From this time their home was in Rome, where Angelica was the centre of an artistic and literary
society of a high order. Among her visitors were such men as Herder and Goethe. The latter
wrote of her: "The light and pleasing in form and color, in design and execution, distinguish
the numerous works of our artist. She was very industrious, and her life seems to have been
divided between two pleasures, her work and the society of her friends, until the death of
her husband, which occurred in 1795. She lived twelve years longer, but they were years of
great sadness. She made journeys in order to regain her spirits. She visited the scenes of
her childhood, and remained some time in Venice with the family of Signor Zucchi.

Even after her last return to Rome she worked as much as her strength would permit, but her
life was not long. She was mourned sincerely in Rome; her funeral was attended by the members
of the Academy of St. Luke; and her latest works were borne in the procession. She was buried
beside her husband in the Church of St. Andrea dei Frati. Her bust was placed in the Pantheon.

Various critics have praised her works in the most liberal manner; others can say nothing good
of them. For myself, I cannot find the extreme of praise or blame a just estimate of her. No
one can deny the grace of her design, which was also creditably correct. Her portraits were
good; her poetical subjects are very pleasing; her historical pictures are not strong; her
color was as harmonious and mellow as that of the best Italians, excepting a few of the greatest
masters, and in all her pictures there is something which wins for her a certain fondness and
praise, even while her faults are plainly seen. Her pictures are to be found in galleries in
Rome, Florence, Vienna, Munich, and England; many are also in private collections. She painted
several portraits of herself; one in the Uffizi, at Florence, is very pleasing. She represents
herself seated in a solitary landscape, with a portfolio in one hand and a pencil in the other.
She has an air of perfect unconsciousness, as if she thought of her work only. Her etchings
are much valued, and sell for large prices. Many of her pictures were engraved by Bartolozzi,
and good prints of them are rare. On one of her pictures she wrote: "I will not attempt to
express supernatural things by human inspiration, but wait for that till I reach heaven, if
there is painting done there."

CHAPTER V.

PAINTING IN SPAIN.

Spanish painting had its birth during the reign of Ferdinand and Isabella, and may be said
to have been derived from Italy, through the influence of the Italian painters who went to
Spain, and the Spanish artists who made their studies in Italy. But in spite of this strong
Italian influence Spanish painting has its own characteristics which separate it from all other
schools, and give it a high position on its own merits. ANTONIO DEL RINCON (1446-1500) was
the first Spanish painter of whom we know. If any works of his remain they are portraits of
his august sovereigns now in the Cathedral of Granada; but it is probable that these pictures
are copies of the originals by Rincon.

Dating the beginning of the Spanish school from the last half of the fifteenth century, it
is the third school in Europe as to age, it being about two centuries later than the Italian,
and one century later than the Flemish school. Its importance is only exceeded by that of Italy.
The distinguishing feature of Spanish art is its gravity, or we may almost say its strictly
religious character, for, excepting portraits, there were few pictures of consequence that
had not a religious meaning. Some artists were also priests, and, as the officers of the Inquisition
appointed inspectors whose duty it was to report for punishment any artist who did not follow
the rules of the Inquisition, it is easy to understand that the painters were careful to keep
within the rules fixed for them. Whatever flights of imagination one might have in secret,
he would scarcely run the risk of being excommunicated from the church, sent into exile for
a year, and fined one thousand five hundred ducats for the pleasure of putting his fancies
on canvas.

Pacheco, who was an inspector at Seville, published minute rules for the representation of
sacred subjects and persons, and other writers did the same. There was a long and grave discussion
over the propriety of painting the devil with horns and a tail. It was decided that he should
have horns because, according to the legend of St. Theresa, he had horns when he appeared to
that saint; and he was allowed to have a tail because it was thought to be a suitable appendage
to a fallen angel who had lost his wings. One very strict rule was that the feet of the Virgin
Mary should be covered, and nude figures or portions of the figure were strictly forbidden.

Another important influence upon the Spanish artists was their belief that the Virgin Mary
and other holy spirits appeared to inspire them and aid them in painting their pictures. In
fact, the church was the chief patron of art, and the artist was one of her most valuable teachers.
A learned Spanish writer said: "For the ignorant, what master is like painting? They may read
their duty in a picture though they may not search for it in books."

The painters of Spain were divided between the schools of Castile, Seville, and Valencia. That
of Castile was founded at Toledo early in the fifteenth century, and was maintained about two
hundred years. Claudio Coello was of this school; he died in 1693, and has well been called
"the last of the old masters of Spain."

ALONZO BERREGUETTE (1480-1561), born at Parades de Nava, in Castile, was the most eminent Spanish
artist of his time. He is called the Michael Angelo of Spain, because he was painter, sculptor,
and architect. He was painter to Philip I. Later he went to Italy, and journeyed from Florence
to Rome with Michael Angelo in 1505. He studied in Italy many years. He was appointed painter
and sculptor to the Emperor Charles V. Berreguette received four thousand four hundred ducats
for the altar in the Church of St. Benito el Real in Valladolid, where he settled. When he
was almost eighty years old he went to Toledo to erect a monument in the Hospital of St. John
Baptist. He was lodged in the hospital, and died there. He left a large fortune, and was buried
with splendid ceremonies at the expense of the emperor.

LUIS DE MORALES (1510-1586) was called "the divine." He belonged to the school of Castile,
and very little is known of his early life. When he was fifty-five years old Philip II. invited
him to court. When Morales appeared he was so splendidly dressed that the king was angry, and
gave orders that he should be paid a certain sum and dismissed. But the poor painter explained
that he had spent all that he had in order to come before the king in a dress befitting Philip's
dignity. Then Philip pardoned him, and allowed him to paint one picture; but as this was not
hung in the Escorial, Morales was overcome by mortification, and almost forsook his painting,
and fell into great poverty. In 1581 the king saw Morales at Badajoz, in a very different dress
from that he had worn at court. The king said: "Morales, you are very old." "Yes, sire, and
very poor," replied the painter. The king then commanded that he should have two hundred ducats
a year from the crown rents with which to buy his dinners. Morales hearing this, exclaimed,
"And for supper, sire?" This pleased Philip, and he added one hundred ducats to the pension.
The street in Badajoz on which Morales lived bears his name.

Nearly all his pictures were of religious subjects, and on this account he was called "the
divine." He avoided ghastly, painful pictures, and was one of the most spiritual of the artists
of Spain. Very few of his pictures are seen out of Spain, and they are rare even there. His
masterpiece is "Christ Crowned with Thorns," in the Queen of Spain's Gallery at Madrid. In
the Louvre is his "Christ Bearing the Cross." At the sale of the Soult collection his "Way
to Calvary" sold for nine hundred and eighty pounds sterling.

ALONSO SANCHEZ COELLO (about 1515-1590) was the first great portrait painter of Spain. He was
painter-in-ordinary to Philip II., and that monarch was so fond of him that in his letters
he called him "my beloved son." At Madrid the king had a key to a private entrance to the apartments
of Coello, so that he could surprise the painter in his studio, and at times even entered the
family rooms of the artist. Coello never abused the confidence of Philip, and was a favorite
of the court as well as of the monarch. Among his friends were the Popes Gregory XIII. and
Sixtus V., the Cardinal Alexander Farnese, and the Dukes of Florence and Savoy. Many noble
and even royal persons were accustomed to visit him and accept his hospitality. He was obliged
to live in style becoming his position, and yet when he died he left a fortune of fifty-five
thousand ducats. He had lived in Lisbon, and Philip sometimes called him his "Portuguese Titian."

Very few of his portraits remain; they are graceful in pose and fine in color. He knew how
to represent the repose and refinement of "gentle blood and delicate nurture." Many of his
works were burned in the Prado. His "Marriage of St. Catherine" is in the Gallery of Madrid.
A "St. Sebastian" painted for the Church of St. Jerome, at Madrid, is considered his masterpiece.
Lope de Vega wrote Coello's epitaph, and called his pictures

      "Eternal scenes of history divine,
       Wherein for aye his memory shall shine."

JUAN FERNANDEZ NAVARRETE (1526-1579), called El Mudo, because deaf and dumb, is a very interesting
painter. He was not born a mute, but became deaf at three years of age, and could not learn
to speak. He studied some years in Italy, and was in the school of Titian. In 1568 he was appointed
painter to Philip II. His principal works were eight pictures for the Escorial, three of which
were burned. His picture of the "Nativity" is celebrated for its lights, of which there are
three; one is from the Divine Babe, a second from the glory above, and a third from a torch
in the hand of St. Joseph. The group of shepherds is the best part of the picture, and when
Tibaldi saw the picture he exclaimed, "O! gli belli pastori!" and it has since been known as
the "Beautiful Shepherds."

His picture of "Abraham and the Three Angels" was placed near the door where the monks of the
Escorial received strangers. The pictures of Navarrete are rare. After his death Lope de Vega
wrote a lament for him, in which he said,

      "No countenance he painted that was dumb."

When the "Last Supper" painted by Titian reached the Escorial, it was found to be too large
for the space it was to occupy in the refectory. The king ordered it to be cut, which so distressed
El Mudo that he offered to copy it in six months, in reduced size, and to forfeit his head
if he did not fulfil his promise. He also added that he should hope to be knighted if he copied
in six months what Titian had taken seven years to paint. But Philip was resolute, and the
picture was cut, to the intense grief of the dumb Navarrete. While the painter lived Philip
did not fully appreciate him; but after his death the king often declared that his Italian
artists could not equal his mute Spaniard.

JUAN CARREÑO DE MIRANDA (1614-1685) is commonly called Carreño. He was of an ancient noble
family. His earliest works were for the churches and convents of Madrid, and he acquired so
good a name that before the death of Philip IV. he was appointed one of his court-painters.
In 1671 the young king Charles gave Carreño the cross of Santiago, and to his office of court-painter
added that of Deputy Aposentador. He would allow no other artist to paint his likeness unless
Carreño consented to it. The pictures of Carreño were most excellent, and his character was
such as to merit all his good fortune. His death was sincerely mourned by all who knew him.

It is said that on one occasion he was in a house where a copy of Titian's "St. Margaret" hung
upon the wall, and those present united in saying that it was abominably done. Carreño said:
"It has at least one merit; it shows that no one need despair of improving in art, for I painted
it myself when I was a beginner."

Gregorio Utande, a poor artist, had painted a "Martyrdom of St. Andrew" for the nuns of Alcalà,
and demanded one hundred ducats for it. The nuns thought the price too much, and wished to
have Carreño value the work. Utande took the picture to Carreño, and first presenting the great
master with a jar of honey, asked him to touch up his St. Andrew for him. Carreño consented,
and, in fact, almost repainted Utande's picture. A short time after Carreño was asked to value
the St. Andrew, but declined. Then Herrera valued it at two hundred ducats, which price the
nuns paid. After Utande received his money he told the whole story, and the picture was then
known as "La Cantarilla de Miel," or "the pot of honey."

CLAUDIO COELLO (1635-1693), who, as we have said, has been called the last of the old Spanish
masters, was intended by his father for his own profession, that of bronze-casting. But Claudio
persuaded his father to allow him to study painting, and before the close of his life he became
the most famous painter in Madrid. He was not only the court-painter, but also the painter
to the Cathedral of Toledo and keeper of the royal galleries. It was not strange that he should
feel that he merited the honor of painting the walls of the Escorial, and when this was refused
him and Luca Giordano was selected for the work, Coello threw aside his brushes and paints,
grew sad, then ill, and died a year later. His masterpiece is now in the Escorial; it represents
the "Collocation of the Host." His own portrait painted by himself is in the gallery of the
Hermitage at St. Petersburg.

The school of Seville was the most important school of Spain. It is also known as the school
of Andalusia. It dates from the middle of the fifteenth century, and its latest master, Alonso
Miguel de Tobar, died in 1758.

LUIS DE VARGAS (1502-1568), one of the earliest of the painters of the school of Seville, was
a devout and holy man. He was accustomed to do penance, and in his room after his death scourges
were found with which he had beaten himself, and a coffin in which he had been accustomed to
lie and meditate upon death and a future life. It is said that Vargas studied twenty-eight
years in Italy. His pictures were fine. His female heads were graceful and pure, his color
good, and the whole effect that of grand simplicity. His picture of the "Temporal Generation
of Our Lord" is his best work in Seville. Adam is kneeling in the foreground, and his leg is
so well painted that the picture has been called "La Gamba." In spite of his seriousness Vargas
was a witty man. On one occasion he was asked to give his opinion of a very poor picture of
"Christ on the Cross." Vargas replied: "He looks as if he were saying, 'Forgive them, Lord,
for they know not what they do!'"

PABLO DE CESPEDES (1538-1608) was born at Cordova, and is an important person in the history
of his time, for he was a divine, a poet, and a scholar, as well as an architect, sculptor,
and painter. He was a graduate of the University of Alcalà, and excelled in Oriental languages.
He studied art in Rome, and while there made a head of Seneca in marble, and fitted it to an
antique trunk; on account of this work he was called "Victor il Spagnuolo." Zuccaro was asked
to paint a picture for the splendid Cathedral of Cordova; he declined, and said that while
Cespedes was in Spain they had no need of Italian artists. The pictures of Cespedes which now
remain are so faded and injured that a good judgment can scarcely be formed of them; but they
do not seem to be as fine as they were thought to be in his day. His "Last Supper" is in the
Cathedral of Cordova. In the foreground there are some jars and vases so well painted that
visitors praised them. Cespedes was so mortified at this that he commanded his servant to rub
them out, and only the most judicious admiration for the rest of the picture and earnest entreaty
for the preservation of the jars saved them from destruction. He left many writings upon artistic
subjects and an essay upon the antiquity of the Cathedral of Cordova. He was as modest as he
was learned, and was much beloved. He was made a canon in the Cathedral of Cordova, and was
received with "full approbation of the Cordovese bishop and chapter."

FRANCISCO PACHECO (1571-1654) was born at Seville. He was a writer on art, and is more famous
as the master of Velasquez and on account of his books than for his pictures. He established
a school where younger men than himself could have a thorough art education. Pacheco was the
first in Spain to properly gild and paint statues and bas-reliefs. Some specimens of his work
in this specialty still exist in Seville.

FRANCISCO DE HERRERA, the elder (1576-1656), was a very original painter. He was born at Seville,
and never studied out of Andalusia. He had so bad a temper that he drove his children and his
pupils away from him. He knew how to engrave on bronze, and made false coins; when his forgery
was discovered, he took refuge with the Jesuits. While in their convent Herrera painted the
history of St. Hermengild, one of the patron saints of Seville. When Philip IV. saw his picture
he forgave him his crime, and set him at liberty.

FRANCISCO ZURBARAN (1598-1662) was one of the first among Spanish painters. He was skilful
in the use of colors, and knew how to use sober tints and give them a brilliant effect. He
did not often paint the Madonna. His female saints are like portraits of the ladies of his
day. He was very successful in painting animals, and his pictures of drapery and still-life
were exact in their representation of the objects he used for models. He painted historical
and religious pictures, portraits and animals; but his best pictures were of monks. Stirling
says: "He studied the Spanish friar, and painted him with as high a relish as Titian painted
the Venetian noble, and Vandyck the gentleman of England."

Zurbaran was appointed painter to Philip IV. before he was thirty-five years old. He was a
great favorite with Philip, who once called Zurbaran "the painter of the king, and king of
painters." Zurbaran's finest works are in the Museum of Seville. He left many pictures, and
the Louvre claims to have ninety-two of them in its gallery.

DIEGO RODRIGUEZ DE SILVA Y VELASQUEZ (1599-1660) was born at Seville, and died at Madrid. His
parents were of noble families; his father was Juan Rodriguez de Silva, and his mother Geronima
Velasquez, by whose name, according to the custom of Andalusia, he was called. His paternal
grandfather was a Portuguese, but so poor that he was compelled to leave his own country, and
seek his fortune at Seville, and to this circumstance Spain owes her greatest painter. Velasquez's
father became a lawyer, and lived in comfort, and his mother devoted herself to his education.
The child's great love of drawing induced his father to place young Velasquez in the school
of Herrera, where the pupil acquired something of his free, bold style. But Velasquez soon
became weary, and entered the school of Francisco Pacheco, an inferior painter, but a learned
and polished gentleman. Here Velasquez soon learned that untiring industry and the study of
nature were the surest guides to perfection for an artist. Until 1622 he painted pictures from
careful studies of common life, and always with the model or subject before him--adhering strictly
to form, color, and outline. He is said to have kept a peasant lad for a study, and from him
executed a variety of heads in every posture and with every possible expression. This gave
him wonderful skill in taking likenesses. To this period belong the "Water Carrier of Seville,"
now at Apsley House, several pictures of beggars, and the "Adoration of the Shepherds," now
in the Louvre, where is also a "Beggar Boy munching a piece of Pastry." At Vienna is a "Laughing
Peasant" holding a flower (Fig. 64), and in Munich another "Beggar Boy." In 1622 his strong
desire to see the paintings in the Royal Galleries led him to Madrid. Letters which he carried
gave him admission to the works of art; but excepting securing the friendship of Fonesca, a
noted patron of art, and an order to paint a portrait of the poet Gongora, he was unnoticed,
and so he returned in a few months to Seville. Subsequently Fonesca interested the minister
Olivarez in his behalf. This resulted in a letter summoning Velasquez to court, with an enclosure
of fifty ducats for the journey. He was attended by his slave, Juan Pareja, a mulatto lad,
who was his faithful attendant for many years, and who became an excellent painter. His former
instructor, Pacheco, now his father-in-law, also accompanied him. His first work at the capital,
naturally, was a portrait of his friend Fonesca, which so pleased the king, Philip IV., that
he appointed Velasquez to his service, in which he remained during his life. This gave him
full opportunity to perfect himself, for the king was never weary of multiplying pictures of
himself. Velasquez also painted many portraits of the other members of the royal family, in
groups and singly. His life was even and prosperous, and he made steady advances toward perfection.
He was sent to Italy to study and to visit the galleries and works in all the cities. A second
time the king sent him to Italy to purchase works of art, with orders to buy anything he thought
worth having. He was everywhere received with consideration and kindness. The pope sat to him
for his portrait; the cardinals Barberini and Rospigliosi; the sculptors Bernini and Algardi;
the painters Nicolas Poussin, Pietro da Cortona, Claude and Matteo Prete were his friends and
associates. Upon his return to Madrid, Velasquez was appointed aposentador-major, with a yearly
salary of three thousand ducats, and a key at his girdle to unlock every door in the palace.
He superintended the ceremonies and festivals of the royal household; he arranged in the halls
of the Alcazar the bronzes and marbles purchased in Italy; he also cast in bronze the models
he brought from abroad, and he yet found time to paint his last great picture, "Las Meniñas,"
or the "Maids of Honor," which represents the royal family, with the artist, maids of honor,
the dwarfs, and a sleeping hound. It is said that when the king saw the picture he declared
but one thing was wanting, and with his own hand significantly painted the cross of Santiago
upon the breast of the artist. When the courts of France and Spain met on the Isle of Pheasants
for the betrothal of the Infanta Maria Teresa to Louis XIV., Velasquez superintended all the
ceremonies and all the festivities. These were of surpassing splendor, for these two courts
were at this time the most luxurious in Europe. Stirling says the fatigues of the life of Velasquez
shortened his days. He arrived at Madrid on his return, on June 26th, and from that time was
gradually sinking. He died August 6th. He was buried with magnificent ceremonies in the Church
of San Juan. His wife survived him but eight days; she was buried in the same grave.

The character of Velasquez was a rare combination of freedom from jealousy, power to conciliate,
sweetness of temper, strength of will and intellect, and steadfastness of purpose. He was the
friend of Rubens and of Ribera, the protector of Cano and Murillo, who succeeded and were,
next to him, the greatest painters of Spain. As the favorite of Philip IV., in fact, his minister
for artistic affairs, he filled his office with purity and disinterestedness.

JUAN DE PAREJA (1610-1670) was born in Spanish South America. He was never a great artist;
but the circumstances of his life make him interesting. He was the slave of Velasquez, and
was employed as color-grinder. He studied painting secretly, and at last, on an occasion when
the king visited the studio of his master, Pareja showed him a picture of his own painting,
and throwing himself at Philip's feet begged pardon for his audacity. Both Philip and Velasquez
treated him very kindly. Velasquez gave Pareja his freedom; but it is said that he continued
to serve his old master faithfully as long as he lived. Pareja succeeded best as a portrait
painter. His works are not numerous, and are seen in few collections out of Spain.

BARTOLOMÉ ESTÉBAN MURILLO (1618-1682) was born at Seville. His parents were Gaspar Estéban
and Maria Perez, and the name of his maternal grandmother, Elvira Murillo, was added to his
own, according to Andalusian custom. From childhood he showed his inclination for art, and
although this at first suggested to his parents that he should be educated as a priest, the
idea was soon abandoned, as it was found that his interest in the paintings which adorned the
churches was artistic rather than religious. He was therefore, at an early age, placed in the
studio of his maternal uncle, Juan de Castillo, one of the leaders of the school of art of
Seville. Castillo was then about fifty years old, and had as a student with Louis Fernandez
acquired the Florentine style of the sixteenth century--combining chaste designing with cold
and hard coloring. Murillo was thus early instructed not only in grinding colors and in indispensable
mechanical details, but was thoroughly grounded in the important elements of purity of conception
and dignity of treatment and arrangement. Seville at this time was the richest city in the
Spanish empire. Its commerce with all Europe, and especially with Spanish America, was at its
height. The Guadalquivir was alive with its shipping. Its palaces of semi-Moorish origin were
occupied by a wealthy and luxurious nobility. The vast cathedral had been finished a century
before. The tower "La Giralda," three hundred and forty feet in height, is to this day one
of the greatest marvels in Christendom, and with its Saracenic ornament and its "lace work
in stone" is beyond all compare. The royal palace of the Alcazar, designed by Moorish architects,
rivalled the Alhambra, and was filled with the finest workmanship of Grenada. There were one
hundred and forty churches, of which many had been mosques, and were laden with the exquisite
ornaments of their original builders. Such a city was sure to stimulate artists and be their
home. The poorer ones were in the habit of exposing their works on balconies, on the steps
of churches or the cathedral, or in any place where they would attract attention. Thus it often
happened on festival days that a good work would command fame for an artist, and gain for him
the patronage of some cathedral chapter or generous nobleman. Castillo removed to Cadiz in
1640, and Murillo, who was very poor, could only bring himself before the public, and earn
sufficient for the bare necessities of life by thus exposing his pictures in the market of
the Feria, as it was called, in front of the Church of All Saints. He struggled along in this
way for two years. Early in 1640, Murillo met with an old fellow-pupil, Moya, who had been
campaigning in Flanders in the Spanish army, and had there become impressed with the worth
of the clear and strong style of the Flemish masters. Especially was he pleased with Vandyck,
so that he followed him to England, and there studied as his pupil during the last six months
of Vandyck's life. Moved by Moya's romancing stories of travel, adventure, and study, Murillo
resolved to see better pictures than were to be found at Seville, and, if possible, to visit
Italy. As a first step he painted a quantity of banners, madonnas, flower-pieces--anything
and everything--and sold them to a ship owner, who sent them to Spanish America; and it is
said that this and similar trades originated the story that Murillo once visited Mexico and
other Spanish-American countries. Thus equipped with funds, and without informing his friends
(his parents were dead), he started on foot across the mountains and the equally dreaded plains
for Madrid, which he entered at the age of twenty-five, friendless and poor. He sought out
Velasquez, and asked him for letters to his friends in Rome. But Velasquez, then at the height
of his fame and influence, was so much interested in the young enthusiast that he offered him
lodgings and an opportunity to study and copy in the galleries of Madrid. The Royal Galleries
contained carefully selected pictures from the Italian and Flemish schools, so that Murillo
was at once placed in the very best possible conditions for success. Murillo thus spent more
than two years, mostly under the direction of Velasquez, and worked early and late. He copied
from the Italian and Flemish masters, and drew from casts and from life. This for a time so
influenced his style that even now connoisseurs are said to discern reminiscences of Vandyck
and Velasquez in the pictures painted by him on his first return to Seville. At the end of
two years Velasquez advised Murillo to go to Rome, and offered to assist him. But Murillo decided
first to return to Seville, and perhaps had come to the resolution not to go to Italy; but
this may be doubted. He knew the progress he had made; he was reasonably certain that, if not
the superior, he was the equal of any of the artists he had left behind in Seville. He was
sure of the wealth, and taste, and love for art in his native city. His only sister was living
there. The rich and noble lady he afterward married resided near there. And so we can hardly
wonder that the artist gave up a cherished journey to Italy, and returned to the scene of his
early struggles with poverty.

The first works which Murillo painted after his return were for the Franciscan Convent. They
brought him little money but much fame. They were eleven in number, but even the names of some
are lost. One represents St. Francis resting on his iron bed, listening in ecstacy to the notes
of a violin which an angel is playing to him; another portrays St. Diego of Alcalá, asking
a blessing on a kettle of broth he is about to give to a group of beggars clustered before
him; another represents the death of St. Clara of Assisi, in the rapturous trance in which
her soul passed away, surrounded by pale nuns and emaciated monks looking upward to a contrasting
group of Christ and the Madonna, with a train of celestial virgins bearing her shining robe
of immortality. The companion picture is a Franciscan monk who passes into a celestial ecstacy
while cooking in the convent kitchen, and who is kneeling in the air, while angels perform
his culinary tasks. These pictures brought Murillo into speedy notice. Artists and nobles flocked
to see them. Orders for portraits and altar-pieces followed in rapid succession, and he was
full of work. Notwithstanding the fact that he was acknowledged to be at the head of his profession
in Seville, his style at this time was cold and hard. It is called frio (cold), to distinguish
it from his later styles. The Franciscan Convent pictures were carried off by Marshal Soult,
and fortunately; for the convent was burned in 1810. His second style, called calido, or warm,
dated from about the time of his marriage, in 1648, to a lady of distinguished family, named
Doña Beatriz de Cabrera y Sotomayor. She was possessed of considerable property, and had lived
in the village of Pilas, a few leagues southwest of Seville. Her portrait is not known to exist;
but several of Murillo's madonnas which resemble each other are so evidently portraits, that
the belief is these idealized faces were drawn from the countenance of the wife of the master.

His home now became famous for its hospitable reunions, and his social position, added to his
artistic merits, procured for him orders beyond his utmost ability to fill. One after another
in quick succession, large, grand works were sent out from his studio to be the pride of churches
and convents. At this time his pictures were noted for a portrait-like naturalness in their
faces, perhaps lacking in idealism, but withal pure and pleasing; the drapery graceful and
well arranged, the lights skilfully disposed, the tints harmonious, and the contours soft.
His flesh tints were heightened by dark gray backgrounds, so amazingly true that an admirer
has said they were painted in blood and milk. The calido, or warm manner, was preserved for
eight or ten years. In this style were painted an "Immaculate Conception," for the Franciscan
Convent; "The Nativity of the Virgin," for the high altar of the Seville Cathedral; a "St.
Anthony of Padua" for the same church, and very many others equally famous. In 1874 the St.
Anthony was stolen from the cathedral, and for some time was unheard of, until two men offered
to sell it for two hundred and fifty dollars to Mr. Schaus, the picture dealer in New York.
He purchased the work and turned it over to the Spanish Consul, who immediately returned it
to the Seville Cathedral, to the great joy of the Sevillians. In 1658 Murillo turned his attention
to the founding of an Academy of Art, and, though he met with many obstacles, the institution
was finally opened for instruction in 1660, and Murillo was its first president. At this time
he was taking on his latest manner, called the vaporoso, or vapory, which was first used in
some of his pictures executed for the Church of Sta. Maria la Blanca. In this manner the rigid
outlines of his first style is gone; there is a feathery lightness of touch as if the brush
had swept the canvas smoothly and with unbroken evenness: this softness is enhanced by frequent
contrasts with harder and heavier groups in the same picture.

But the highest point in the art was reached by Murillo in the eleven pictures which he painted
in the Hospital de la Caridad. Six of these are now in their original places; five were stolen
by Soult and carried to France; some were returned to Spain, but not to the hospital.

The convent of the Capuchins at Seville at one time possessed twenty pictures by this master.
The larger part of them are now in the Museum of Seville, and form the finest existing collection
of his works. This museum was once a church, and the statue of Murillo is placed in front of
it. Although the lighting of this museum is far inferior to that of Madrid and many others,
yet here one must go to realize fully the glory of this master. All the castaways, which requires their
faith must be killed and whoever it failed, would otherwise perish even in the wreck (Erskine 249-50).
Old parents are alive for their children, sick children from their parents buried (ibid.) and that
is it's own will of the victims, that takes them as (477) because you think you would come to
and through such death immediately to a different and much better Life and therefore tolerate
this hideous practice with real Familienanhänglichkeit. But it is therefore understandable
that only few people die of natural causes (Will. and Calvert 1, 188). Human sacrifice at the tomb,
especially of chiefs, are also usually as large, the women are either all or the favorite
wives and a lot of slaves murdered. The mother whose beloved son died, follows him at times into
Grave, the friend of a friend (Will. and Calvert 1, 134). Even this crowd, because of the Rewards
in the afterlife, the victims, the women strangle itself if they none this Service does (Erskine
293rd Mariner 1, 347). And how hard to stopped the human sacrifice is from the following note at
440 Erskine produced: a Fiji Islander, had some of what Pity taken a prisoner is not sacrificed
to the god, since he appeared in the latter Dream tormented him about this omission follows
with remorse, that man almost fell into a frenzy. But the same party, which, as we have already
mentioned (p. 70), is against cannibalism and used to create looks for him, is that human sacrifice
hostile (Erskine 280) and so they too, as the effect is added to the Europeans, hopefully not
take too long .-- Similar practices were also found elsewhere in Melanesia, where nowhere
as excessive as in this case: namely, it is the buried alive parents, the sick, the murder of the mother
or a relative, if a child dies, what we are told.

Now what Polynesia is concerned, it is certainly an exaggeration to Michelis (91st without
a source) tells the King of Futuna (north of Samoa), whose island
has 2000 residents have, while his government in 1000 people sacrificed
to the gods.

Because we find elsewhere in Polynesia human sacrifice is not too numerous. Of course it is a mistake
to Ellis 1, claims 106 they were introduced later in Tahiti, as it much with the whole Polynesian
religion grown too tight, but they are in later times, even before the discovery of the Natives
themselves very limited. At the start of a war god of war was a human sacrifice (Ellis 1, 276), the
other gods, as often people have been offered (1, 357). In War, with large national parties,
in diseases and the death of princes (Bratring 182-83. 196) sacrificed humans, and one of the
heads of the vanquished (which also Melanesian Custom was) in the temple as a votive offering 47 places
lined up (Moerenhout 2). More frequent were these sacrifices in Hawaii, where (Jarven 47)
are to be slaughtered often 80 people at once. It was here and in Tahiti, to prisoners or criminals
or people who at some taboo had broken, or if their were not available, people of the People
(18th Jarven Ellis supra). There was also more similar to the use Herveyinseln (Williams 215).
If now in Hawaii, according to the prince, these victims should be introduced later (Jarven 47),
so this is just a sign that you are seeing here is already so terrible to the custom had and
she was on the wane. Human sacrifices were of course here at the tombs Making the place, initially
by the issuance of the corpse and then even more numerous at the funeral itself (Remy 115). It
was also used in New Zealand fashion - now she's ready to come - that strangled the women at the
tomb of their men, the slaves were killed (Taylor 97). In Tonga were at the tombs of the nobles now
and women sacrificed (authent. narrate. V. Tonga 78, Mariner 1, 295), suggesting earlier this general
custom, against which the Tongan Prince himself emulated close, can.

Of particular interest is the children's murder, as he appears in Tonga. Thus (Mariner 1, 229)
children sacrificed to the gods, to the outrage of a prince against a sanctuary again to do
well: a victim that would not make sense even if one does not in children had seen the gods very pleasant
agent.

To obtain the king's life, was killed one of his children produced by a concubine (1, 379):
but if the Tui-tonga, the highest religious and secular past, "Lord of Tonga is ill because
a child is not enough and you kill three or four (1, 454).

Before leaving this subject, is to speak to or from any kind of sacrifice, which, as it seems,
is spread all over the world for the human sacrifice for the dedication, safety of buildings
and the like [N] Again, this custom is the most exaggerated in the
Fiji Islands.

There have newly built boats to make them safe from storms and disasters, in surviving slaves
the lake are rolled, in any post of a newly built house has to becoming, so that the post sure is,
include a living slave - and to this crushed alive, this being buried alive are hiding the victims,
which it is rewarded in the afterlife powerful (Erskine 249-50). The custom was not only Melanesian,
but also throughout Polynesia widespread: in New Zealand rested the central pillar of the house
earlier on human bodies (Taylor 387 et seq) and tells of Tahiti same Moerenhout 2, 22-23,
but it seems even here the use are off to a later period, for if he and Ellis (1, 346) for
this use only Stamp indicating it was probably limited only to this later. Same use is also
found in South America: the palace of Bogota, the ruler of the Chibcha rose Girl dead and his reason
as his door-posts were soaked with human blood (Waitz 4, 360).

Having thus this survey of the way in which people value nature, human life, completed pay, to
a conclusion that their wars for them are extremely dangerous endanger the existence of almost
single one, so we have to perform in the first place, if we seek the causes for the extinction
of native peoples, but that cannibalism and human sacrifice, although
terrible in some countries expanded, is of secondary importance and
only when they occur together with other reasons for the projected
decrease of a People have contributed.

§ 11 Constitution and law.

The State Constitution and law of primitive peoples, after a few pages are here, of course, deal only
briefly, must. The culture States of America as the Polynesian Islands it, we need to look in that
direction, because in respect of other primitive peoples partly the
legal and political life become less than it any influence would have
been, partly designed to this effect was not favorable.

How does the law in its earliest development always writes its laws
"with blood", so it was in Mexico is the case: almost all crimes,
even minor thefts, drunkenness, slander, & c. were punished with death,
and sometimes the whole family sold into slavery (Waitz 4, 84-85).

The principle that the family has to adhere to the individual criminal Member applies here. In Peru
(4, 414-15), the severity of the laws equally large and the liability of the family for the guilty,
which they in many cases, the death of both suffered even greater. This strict liability of the
judiciary and especially the family for the Specifically, in the South Pacific also, if it
prevails also in order caused major damage because, as we shall see, there the power of the
rulers was more absolute than in America. For example, in Tonga destroyed the whole trunk
of a rebel (Mariner 1, 271) and the ongoing wars revenge of these peoples and tribes with each
other based partially on this bloody interpretation of the law (eg New Zealand Dieffenbach 1,
93, liability of the tribe for individuals Thomson 1, 98). Also produced in Australia are
quite strict legal penalties (Grey 2, 236-37), either death or piercing of individual body
parts with his spear (which often death occurs) or Speerung, ie, the culprit is the spear of a larger
litters suspend or smaller amount of fellow, which he of course by his skill (Arms shall not
have) if it is sufficient, may evade (Grey 2, 244-45). The liability the family, the tribe for the individual
is, if possible, tighter than anywhere else (Grey 2, 239-40, 235-36).

In Mexico, the Constitution was strictly a monarchy, the nobility, probably sooner the highest
state authority itself had been in the hands (Waitz 4, 71), as in other monarchical States also
had great privileges of the people. The ruler, because he representative of God was on earth,
absolute power (Waitz 4, 68) had, and liked by many even done injustice and violence, want
individual princes abuse their power; especially because as the last of them, Montezuma II,
his violent and arrogant Character in even sharper development of absolutism and the special position
of the nobility showed, but that was endured by the people, without affecting the people nor by the
displeasure the rulers of the people were at risk. Worse was that the rulers by their absolutism
own will of the people had crippled too.

"The strong and general acquiescence in the will of the ruler of part of the people has on
several occasions in no uncertain As shown: at a sign of Montezuma were calm, even as he himself of
Cortez was imprisoned and the capture of the capital ceased all resistance do not simply because
the great men of the Empire there were all united, but because the case of the ruler for the
remaining steadfast to the utmost, the duty of Mexicans Self-defense was obviated. Revolutions of
the people were - apart from newly conquered countries - almost unknown "(Waitz 4, 68). The most
dangerous of all was the policy of conquest of the Mexican State. to subject all countries
and their god Huitzilopochtli, which the constant Pursuit of the Mexicans was (4, 117), they had
their dominion from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean, without, but really to conquer resisting countries
and seriously to assimilate themselves. Montezuma II, and still did the same. While in his country
revolts parts of the conquered countries broke out, he sent, rather than tie up the won permanent, his armies
in ever more distant areas to always win more (Waitz 4, 46), and "therefore, Waitz says 4, 47,
it is quite conceivable that the large rapidly growing empire of Montezuma by a few powerful
and sent out bumps could be broken. "A lot of domestic enemies, entire countries parts rose
and stood on the side of the Spaniards - and then Mexico, the so-crowded, rich and prosperous
country in no small part by his own policies have perished. Since this description, on the whole also
Peru matches, where the king as God's representative on earth, only an even more absolute and
more pressing Possessed power, where wars of conquest also extended the country and thereby
rendered less firmly had, because it is now in its hostile elements inside barg (Waitz 4, 399-413),
since we here to occur, much the same thing, so we do not need the exact circumstances of the
Inca Empire to look at and go straight on to Polynesia.

Here, the absolutism and the special position of the aristocracy, the divine in origin the nobility
and the kings roots, the highest conceivable you could say a logically perfect Development found.
Everywhere, New Zealand, Tahiti, Hawaii, the Markesasarchipel, in Tonga, in the old population
of the Mariana Islands (Micronesia while otherwise in practice at least the opposition holds less
spicy) the people is regarded as inanimate, hence his life as completely worthless. Man killed
after it desires or whim (Mariner 1, 60 91), is depressed it is because it has no more validity
than even for the nobles to be there no value further than what it is worth the making - and nowhere
was this pressure worse than Hawaii - he has been charged for the same reason all the hard work,
eg farming, taking he is barred most of the better food, to the feasts of the nobility, it must
what it has to contribute food, to human sacrifices, take the individuals from him, in short,
a pressure is on him, so incredible that you do not understand how
under the same at all is one and could get even to many people.

Often was it not time to order their own country, so as famine, infanticide and including a
large amount of emigration came in, the depopulated especially Tahiti, but also tells of other islands.
So it was in Tahiti in the wild, mountainous and barely habitable interior of the island, a
scattered population of "wild men, extremely shy and timid, very lonely living in the caves,
surely only sprung refugees of the people, or their descendants, who dared not to return (Ellis
1, 305). From Hawaii says Jarven (368 ff): neglected "The agriculture was, and famine reigned. Entire
flocks were flying their last daily basis, others left their homes and fled like wild beasts
in the depths of the woods, where they perished for lack miserable again, or a miserable existence
by fruits and roots-ended. Blind to the consequences set the princes their policy (to which they
were misled by greedy foreigners often) away. " Infanticide was the result of a particularly
prohibitive poll tax, not just physically, morally degenerated into the people. And this moral
depravity is to take great, because Nothing conveys the decline of a population more than that.
Where is the morality (of course only under the terms of the peoples concerned) is missing, also
lacks the self-respect, and where the self-esteem, the joy of life which these people also have
external reasons was impossible, and where the joy is missing in life because life itself deteriorates
and dries up Rightly, therefore, provides Jarven (ibid.) that pressure under which the people
died, a major cause his massive shrinkage out: and how it was in Hawaii, so it was, with few amendments,
pretty much everywhere in Polynesia.

§ 12 Natural phenomena.

Did we like what the indigenous peoples through their own life or liability for its waning help:
we need before we go further, a look at the nature of these environments People take and consider
the cheap or harmful influence. So much already shines the first sight: by natural influences alone
dies from a people and human Nature gets used almost everything. One can, after Darwin's description,
hardly one for human Unfavorable development of nature, think, both in terms of climate, than
on food etc, as the southern tip of America, and yet the same writer says that a dying to the
strains of the fire miserable countries do not notice it. Nor did the Eskimos. Man akklimatisirt
itself, though only very gradually in slow advance through centuries or better for thousands of
years of inheritance and thereby gain some of the area especially empowering properties of
each region, to any climate, and nothing proves just over the durability of our nature as this ability
to habit. But of course, be neither fire nor Eskimos countries develop according to large powerful
nations: namely in Consequence of their natural environment which
the free development of humanity because it impassable Obstacles in
its path.

So just because the natural environment of the reason that we are
ruder Primitive people never see very many, and the nature demanded
a life which the prosperity of the Humanity is not conducive.

The small number of Hollanders is undoubtedly due by the astonishingly barren nature of their
country, for even if Grey (1, 239) has right against Sturt and many others, that the lack
of food produced in Australia is not as large as it is usually done, and although he is for
the southeast district of the continent, for an area of ​​200-300 miles (2, 299) quite a lot
of food (2, 263-64); Thus the same but are still only widely dispersed, and often must be sought, in
detail considered, wretched enough. to multiply you have to grow the indigenous culture is
not enough also there are hardly among the plants and animals of New Holland those that are true Crops
or domestic animals would be useful, but to collect the Hollanders, as we have seen in the consideration
of their character, to indolent, too slow. We must the extraordinary nature of the barriers inhibiting
recognize, however, only the first really for the existence of a nation be dangerous if show
any other afflictions. Over many districts in America must be more or less say the same thing,
in some respects also of South Africa. And almost even worse situation is already at its high
Polynesia Islands, which are mostly in the interior so steep and rough, that they, like Tahiti
and Nukuhiva, can not be inhabited, or large barren stretches behind their most lush shoreline pose,
such as the Fiji and many of the Hawaiian Islands, and which, if they also thoroughly would be habitable,
but by their very small size of disappearing in the vast and dangerous Oceans, their inhabitants
are a hindrance. This is not the shipping as easy as in Mediterranean and coastal shipping
impossible altogether. Larger animals are not even out of to the domestic animal in the true
sense inappropriate pork and some dogs, but that their Dogs have nearly passed and become natural
beef cattle are. Crops, there are enough, but so abundant that neither physical nor mental
effort, hardly action is necessary to to get sufficient stock of, or as little, as in New Zealand
(of course at the time the discovery) that despite all the effort the food could not lift much. And
now even the smaller islands, which are almost always infertile coral rings, which usually as in
eastern Polynesia and Paumotu, only the pandanus, with its miserable dieting And fruits, but
not even everywhere, for example, not in the northern Ratakkette that Coconut palm produce,
the bread tree and the other food plants of the South Pacific, which require moist soil, as
Tacca and Arum, only rarely or only after a very laborious allow editing of the hard corals thrive
ground animals, but, except many rats does not possess. In addition, horrible hurricanes,
which nothing can resist, in Tahiti, and the Paumotu Herveyinseln to Tonga, the Carolines, the
Marianas, briefly as pretty much everywhere, even destroy the vegetation often so complete
that extreme Famine occurs. On the islands south of the equator to the storms of nature Moerenhout
(2, 365) do not occur more frequently than every 8-10 years, so just often enough to provide a rich development
the population impossible. Because their power is such that in any protection or resistance
is not to be thought. Therefore, is it conceivable that the children's murder as Chamisso told with
such a horror of the Ratakinsulanern, there and else (Eg on Tikopia) positively regulated by
law, to protect the islands from over-population; also understand how Hochstetter had the idea
that cannibalism in New Zealand introduced by the hunger is. Now if indeed the latter view
is certainly not true, how easily what we have already said about the cannibalism of the norm;
it is certain that in some parts of Polynesia, for example in Nukuhiva, sometimes the hunger
for devouring close relatives drove. Even in America, especially in the north, there are people
that through the external necessity forced to be brought to cannibalism (3 Waitz, 508, 4, 251).

That
the Aleutian by their nature, no rich natural development of their Allow population is clear,
and the same is true of Kamchatka, about the nature of modern von Kittlitz writers acted admirably.

All
the discussed countries make a great historical development from the start so virtually impossible.
Monotony is the sign of most, and historical destiny, the effective means of raising humanity
could take its people not as good as cooked. This, however, they could not care about nature,
such as the Indo-Europeans, the Semites did rise, so that this would be ruled by them. And we take
on the other side Peoples with the customs, as we previously described, in an unfavorable nature,
well lit one, just as they had to be over twice the risk of harmful effects of nature.

§ 13 External influences of higher culture on the native peoples.

We can now only after we have considered what the nature and habits of these Peoples themselves
an early demise reason is, consider the effects more precisely which their contact with other generally
higher cultivated peoples, and especially the civilized peoples Europe and America has produced.

There
are influences here first mention, even though by no means hostile, often only meant well but
physically and mentally the most violent effects and had were and still are.


CLAUDE JOSEPH VERNET (1714-1789) was the best marine painter of the French school. Louis XV.
commissioned him to paint the seaports of France. Fifteen of these pictures are in the Louvre.
There have been many engravings after his works. His pictures of Italian seaports and views
near Rome and Tivoli are among his best paintings. His color has little variety; but his drawing
is correct, and his finish is very careful and fine. Vernet also made a few etchings.

In the early part of the eighteenth century JOSEPH MARIE VIEN (1716-1809) returned to the classic
style of painting, and created a feeling against the pretty manner which had been the chief
feature of French pictures for some time. His pictures are very numerous in the churches and
galleries of Paris. He was not a great painter, but he marks a change in the spirit of French
painting. Vien was the teacher of JACQUES LOUIS DAVID (1748-1825), who was considered the first
painter in modern art at the close of the eighteenth century. He was so devoted to the classic
style that he took the remains of ancient art as models for the figures in his pictures. His
groups are like groups of statues, and his flesh looks like marble, it is so hard and lifeless.
During the time of the first Napoleon this style was carried to excess in everything connected
with the arts. David was such a favorite with the emperor that after the return of the Bourbons
he was banished, and his family were not allowed to bury him in France. He lived in Brussels,
and executed many of his best pictures there.

ANTOINE JEAN GROS (1771-1835) was a great admirer of David, and first attracted attention in
1801 by a picture of "Bonaparte on the Bridge of Arcola." After this Gros painted many such
works, and principally represented military events. Many of his pictures are very coarse. The
"Plague at Jaffa" and the "Field of Eylau" are of this type, and the first is disgusting. Among
his best works is "Francis I. and Charles V. visiting the Tombs at St. Denis." But although
he received many honors, and was made a baron by Charles X., he could not bear the criticism
which was made upon his pictures, and finally drowned himself in the Seine near Meudon.

PAUL DELAROCHE (1797-1856) was born at Paris, and studied under Baron Gros. He became a celebrated
artist and was made a member of the Institute of France, a Professor in l'École des Beaux-Arts,
and an officer of the Legion of Honor. His principal works represent scenes of important historical
interest, and he so arranged them that they appeal to one's sympathies with great power. Among
these pictures are the "Condemnation of Marie Antoinette," the "Death of the Duke of Guise,"
"Cromwell Contemplating the Remains of Charles I.," and other similar historical incidents.
His design was according to academical rules; but he was not entirely conventional, and in
some of his religious pictures there was much expression and deep feeling.

His largest and most famous work is the "Hemicycle," in l'École des Beaux-Arts, Paris. He was
occupied with this painting during three years; it contains seventy-five figures of life size.
The arts of different countries and ages are represented in it by portraits of the artists
of the times and nations typified. Thus it is very interesting when considered merely as a
great collection of portraits. Delaroche married the daughter of Horace Vernet, and it is said
that the figure which stands for Gothic Architecture is a portrait of her. The Hemicycle is
richly colored, and has a great deal of fine painting in it; but from its very nature it has
no dramatic power, and does not arouse any deep sentiment in one who studies it. Delaroche
was paid only about fifteen thousand dollars for this great labor, and refused to have any
further reward.

Perhaps none of his works are more powerful than the "Death of the Duke of Guise." You will
easily recall the circumstances of his assassination: the painter has so represented it that
one really forgets that it is a picture, and can only remember the horror of the crime. The
corpse of the duke is on one side of the immense chamber, near the bed; the assassins are in
a terrified group on the other side, and with them the cowardly king, who was absolutely afraid
of the dead body of his victim. The picture is a remarkable instance of the power that may
be given to what is sometimes called historical-genre art. This picture was sold in 1853 for
ten thousand five hundred dollars (Fig. 69).

JEAN LOUIS GÉRICAULT (1791-1824). He was born at Rouen, and studied first under Guérin and
then in Rome. He was the first master of any power who entirely dismissed the influence of
the art of David with its marble flesh and statuesque effect. The one great work by which he
is known is the "Wreck of the Medusa," which is in the Louvre, and which may be said to mark
the advent of the modern French school.

EUGENE DELACROIX (1799-1863) was the son of a Minister of Foreign Affairs, and was born to
position and wealth. But through misfortunes all this was changed, and he was forced to work
hard for his living. At last he managed to study under Guérin, and in the studio of the master
became the friend of Géricault. The first work which brought Delacroix fame was a picture of
a scene from Dante's "Inferno," in which Dante sees some of his old acquaintances who were
condemned to float upon the lake which surrounds the infernal city. This work was exhibited
in 1822, and was bought for the Gallery of the Luxembourg. Baron Gros tried to be his friend;
but Delacroix wished to follow his own course, and for some time had but small success.

He travelled in Spain, Algiers, and Morocco, and at length was commissioned by Thiers to do
some decorative work in the throne-room of the Chamber of Deputies. He was much criticised,
but at length was accepted as a great artist, and was made a member of the Institute in 1857.
He received another important order for the Chamber of Peers. Some of his works are at Versailles,
and others are seen in various churches of Paris. When they are considered as a whole they
are effective, but they do not bear examination; his design was free and spirited and his color
good, and he painted a variety of subjects, and was able to vary the expression of his work
to suit the impression he wished to produce.

ÉMILE JEAN HORACE VERNET (1789-1863) was born in the Louvre. He studied under his father, Carle
Vernet, who was the son of Claude Joseph Vernet. Carle was a witty man, and it is said that
when he was dying he exclaimed, "How much I resemble the Grand Dauphin--son of a king, father
of a king, and never a king myself!" In spite of his being less than his father or his son,
he was a good painter of horses. When Horace Vernet was but fifteen years old he supported
himself by drawing; he studied with Vincent, and drew from living models. In 1814 he showed
such bravery at the Barriere of Clichy that he was decorated with the Cross of the Legion of
Honor: before he died he was a grand officer of the order on account of his artistic merits.
He was also a member of the Institute and Director of the Academy of Rome.

His best works were executed in Rome, where he spent seven years; he travelled in Algiers,
Syria, Egypt, Palestine, Russia, and England, and was everywhere received with the honors which
his genius merited. His works embraced a great variety of subjects, and it is said that he
often finished his picture the first time he went over it, and did not retouch it. There is
no doubt that in certain ways the excellence of Vernet has been overestimated, and he has been
too much praised; but his remarkable memory, which enabled him truthfully to paint scenes he
had witnessed, and his facility of execution, are worthy of honorable mention.

When twenty years old Vernet was married, and from this time he kept an expense account in
which all the prices he received for his works are set down. The smallest is twenty-four sous
for a tulip; the largest is fifty thousand francs for the portrait of the Empress of Russia.

About 1817 Vernet became the favorite of the Duke of Orleans, and was therefore unpopular with
the royal party. 

On the way home I sat at the wheel, taciturn and internally excited, my eyes must have looked
sometimes rest on the other at some distance in front of us rowing boats, while the young ladies
in vain tried to pull me into their conversation. From this
time orders and money flowed in from all sides.

