"I thought also to have some one watching--ready to appeal to the burghers, if need should
be: and I have sent but now a most secret message by my own trusty squire to his Eccellenza,
Mutio di Costanzo, to tell him what hath chanced. He being Governor and Admiral of Cyprus,
hath so great power that it should not be left for the Queen's Council to reach him first--if
there should be scheming. Being Vice-Roy of Nikosia, he will have the will of the citizens
for his following--if need should be. And his loyalty is sure: it was he, who with our bailò
of Venice received Caterina's oath of allegiance, after the death of Janus; and he will not
fail her."

"Thou hast a right to thy weariness," his Mother said, laying her firm white hand with a weight
of tenderness for a moment on his head. "Thou mindest me of thy father--so full of carefulness
to be before in any cause that he held dear. I would thou wert not lost to Venice--it was my
hope for thee--thou wouldst have been a power in her Councils."

"We would not be false to our own for any fancied glory that might be possible for us," he
answered more lightly than he had yet spoken: but he knew that his Mother's ambitions for him
were not fulfilled in this mission to Cyprus--that she had sacrificed her heart's desire for him.

He caught her beautiful white hand and spread it tenderly out upon his own--a hand that it
had taken generations to fashion--made to command, yet knowing when to yield--modelled with
exquisite lines of grace, goodness, courtesy, power--a hand of character, yet with delicate
flushes of pink in finger tip and palm, with a touch as tender as strong.

"It is too hard for thee, Madre mia, away from thine old home," he said tenderly. "There is
room in the brig for thee to-morrow, if thou wilt: and Marco for thine escort."

She shook her head: "It would be harder to live without my boy," she said resolutely. "Now
think on sleep, of which thou hast need--and----" She half-framed the name of Margherita, yet
would not utter it.

He smiled at the wistful look in her face; for he understood. "Nay, Madre mia; such thoughts
are not for me. I am a general in an alien camp, with scarce wit enough for my tangled duty."

Then he bent his knee, and kissed her hand, in knightly fashion of the time, as doing her reverence,
whom in his heart he loved, and left her--a little comforted by his long confidential talk.

But the Lady Beata stood for a while motionless where her son had left her, before the long
window that faced the splendid peristyle of the palace. Between the great spaces of the columns
she saw the Piazza beyond them flooded with moonlight--white and still and absolutely deserted.
There were no human sounds save the monotonous tread of the sentinels pacing to and fro before
the palace; and across the Piazza, those of the guard before the closed entrance of the Fortress
of Famagosta where their Queen and the infant Prince were in residence, echoed them back. From
the Duomo San Nicolò shone the faint twilight glimmer of the tall candles that were ceaselessly
burning about the tomb of Janus--each pale flame wafting a prayer for absolution from the broken
heart of the Queen, who before her illness had brought them daily with her own hands: and far
down upon the shore was dimly heard the ceaseless flow of the waves, keeping rhythmic beat
to the passing moments in the mystery of the night.

XIX

The moon had waned and the night was starless when the chimes of San Nicolò told three of the
morning in low melodious tones like a voice from dreamland, breaking no slumber.

Suddenly the sharp wild clangor of the great alarum-bell of Famagosta crashed through the silence.

The citizens sprang from their sleep with cries of terror and rushed to the windows; but, alas,
they had not dreamed that dreaded danger signal which kept up its fateful toll. Already men,
fully armed, were hurrying through the streets that led to the Piazza; whence came echoes of
voices talking in quick, awe-struck tones--the flash of torches--a horseman dashing down from
the castle to the walls at the port--sounds of excited action ringing back from the ramparts--the
quick gallop of a cavalier rushing to join his command.

What might it mean!

Commander Saplana moved calmly out among his mounted suite, fully equipped, from the Castle
into the Piazza; yet there had not been many moments in which to make ready since the first
notes of that wild alarum had sounded!

Those among the citizens entitled to bear arms were quickly accoutred and dashed out to mingle
with the throng.

"What is it?" men questioned of each other--but no one knew.

Had the Genoese returned to storm by night this post of vantage so long their own--and still
so coveted?

Were the Turks upon them?

Was it some intrigue of Ferdinand of Naples?

Was it treason?

Was it Carlotta come from Rhodes, with men-at-arms, to surprise them?

There was stealthy talk of a foreign galley in the port.

Some one had noted strange sailors in the throng: one might not be sure of the letters on their
caps, because of the darkness: but they were Christians--not Turks--thanks be to the Madonna!

"But the Queen is safe, Sanctissima Vergine! The Queen is in the Castle."

"There is His Excellency, Maestro Gentle, physician to Her Majesty, he passeth but now, the
glimmer of his mail beneath his cloak! Holy saints! A gray-haired man, rushing out into the
night--thinking first of the Queen and of her safety! The Madonna will be good to her!"

The old court physician gave the password at the castle-gate and entered.

The Signor Andrea Cornaro rode forth from his palace, fully armed, and with him Marco Bembo,
cousin to the Queen--surely, they would know! The citizens called to them urgently for some
explanation of the tumult, but they passed swiftly by to the palace of the Bailò, the Venetian
Resident.

But the Bailò gave them no comfort.

"I know naught of the trouble," he answered them, "save that warning hath been sent me by His
Excellency, the Count of Tripoli, that it were wiser that I keep within."

"Then art thou the more needed!" burst from the lips of Cornaro, made desperate by this coolness;
"for it well may be that the Count of Tripoli is a traitor set high in trust!"

But the Bailò listened to their importunate pleadings as if it were a trifle.

"Come with us swiftly to the Queen! By all the saints in heaven!--she should have her own about
her in this danger--whate'er it be!"

"Nay," he said, and would not move. "This is a place of intrigue--and warning hath been sent
me. It is, perchance, some one who seeketh my life."

There was no time to parley.

"Haste thee to the royal palace," the elder man said to his nephew, as they galloped away,
"and bring from thence, with all speed, the Queen's Chamberlain, the Bernardini--there is none
more loyal. Let none hinder thee."

"I serve our house and our honor!" young Marco called back to him, as he put his horse to the spur.

"I go at once to Caterina," his uncle answered reassuringly, turning the head of his good steed
towards the castle--a place of security indeed--a fortress famed as impregnable.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Royal Palace was doubly guarded--as never before, and Marco when he reached it, plead in
vain for admission.

"By order of the Council of the Realm, no man might enter."

"Then take, I pray thee, this message to His Excellency, the Chamberlain of the Queen, and
bid him come hither--it is for life or death."

A golden coin, with the head of Janus stamped upon it, glittered in his palm. The valiant guard
received the gift and refused the message.

"No man shall enter, nor leave this palace to-night: by order of the Council of the Realm."

"I bring an order from His Excellency, Andrea Cornaro, Auditor of Her Majesty, and member of
the Council of the Realm," Marco pleaded desperately.

"Our orders are of the Chief of Council, the Signor Marin Rizzo--whom to disobey this night
is death."

The foremost guard of the line had led the defense: and among them all there was no motion
to favor this young cousin of their Queen. He was a knight, and brave at arms--but to have
fought that band meant certain death; and at the castle, one might, perchance, help the Queen!

"There are some with Caterina to help her," he thought in his loyal heart, as baffled at the
palace, he pushed his way across the Piazza and reached the entrance to the castle, "and here
she is surely safe."

The Count of Zaffo, her aged Councillor and friend, had risen from a sick-bed to go to her;
he had been first to enter the castle-court. "So ill, that he scarce could hold himself upon
his palfrey," some one told the young knight in the crowd, in answer to his question.

"The old Councillor scarce could strike a blow for her," thought Marco; "but it is good that
he should be within: for his devotion to Caterina is known. And Messer Andrea is there!"

He drew breath more freely for this gleam of comfort, as he gave the usual password.

But the guard was obdurate.

"It is not the password for this night, my Lord."

"I pray thee--I am cousin to Her Majesty, and must have speech with her."

"Eccellenza; by order of the castellan, none may pass, save those who give the word."

"Then call me hither the castellan."

"The password hath been given by the Chief of the Council of the Realm; and without it, the
gates may not be opened," the castellan answered without preamble, when he appeared for an
instant before the slide in the great gate--as quickly closed, though he had recognized a member
of the Queen's family.

"Had his uncle known the password and forgotten to give it to him?" Marco questioned in some
anxiety, as he made his way, baffled again, through the crowd in the Piazza, which was growing
denser and more excited. "And if he had not known it----?"

He quickened his pace--his horse alert to obey his will, fretting with dilated nostril and
pawing hoof at their frequent interruptions.

The citizens had gathered in force, but no one of them knew the cause of the commotion, and
they were not immediately formidable in the midst of this armed body of knights and soldiers
who kept secret council and obeyed the slightest word of their commanders. Marco searched their
faces, as well as he might for the uncertain glare of the torches, but in vain. If he could
but find General Visconti and his men, they might cut their way into the fortress--they, being
Venetians, were surely loyal to the Queen!

His brain was in a whirl--he could think of nothing that was best, every moment might count--yet
he crossed and recrossed his steps, turning down dark streets and back again into the Piazza;
he was no longer sure of the safety of the castle; he was growing desperate.

But Visconti's men did not reveal themselves, and Marco worked his way out of the Piazza--since
they surely were not there, and since no hint of what was passing within the fortress came
from behind the porte-cullis--the single opening upon the square.

Little did he dream that Visconti's men, because they were Venetians and known to be in sympathy
with the Queen were kept that night, by order of the Council of the Realm, in close detention.

The troop of horse stood impassible before the entrance and the sentry as tranquilly kept guard
upon the turrets, as Marco passed them on his way to a small gate upon the seaward side which
he had once noticed and now hoped had been forgotten, and where, in truth he entered when he
reached it; for it had not been thought important by the planners of this night's strange revel--possibly
because few knew of it, or perhaps, because there were none from the port who would not be
welcome, for the fleets of Venice were known to be at anchor off the coasts of Turkey, having
sailed thither in glad and unsuspecting temper after the courtesies of the baptismal and coronation
fêtes.

       *       *       *       *       *

It chanced that it was through this same small, unguarded doorway that Andrea Cornaro had passed
when--unaware of the new password for the night and zealously kept in ignorance thereof by
his colleagues in office--he had been denied admission at the great gate upon the Piazza. As
all persuasion brought him the more strenuous denial, he felt sure of some perfidy and the
more bent upon reaching his niece at all hazards--for he was not one to be easily overcome
by obstacles.

Meanwhile, Messer Andrea, Auditor to the Queen and Member of the Council of the Realm, had
meant to scale the walls by the seaside and fight his way, hand to hand if need be, to the
Queen's side, when he had chanced upon this little gate upon the moat so long unused that its
rusty bolt yielded without over-much persuasion to his pressure from without. The first court
upon which it gave entrance--being the farthest from the Piazza--was dark and deserted, and
he passed, without resistance into the second court, finding it also empty, except for the
sentry passing to and fro on his monotonous duty.

The man saluted as he offered the usual password, then, recognizing one of the Queen's Council,
presented arms.

Here, at least, all was tranquil--possibly his fears had been too great.

But from the third court--the one first entered from the Piazza, there came as he neared the
arched passage that led from court to court through the thickness of the massive walls, hints
of commotion that made him pause to consider whether he might not more surely reach the Queen
by some other stairway.

As he drew back into the shadow to make some farther plan, the Count of Tripoli, with Rizzo
di Marin, Chief of Council, came through, from the first court, followed by one or two mounted
nobles, questioning the sentry as to whether anyone had passed that way, and he heard the man
give his name.

"Sua Eccellenza, Messer Andrea Cornaro."

The Count of Tripoli repeated this answer, with an accent of surprise.

"He gave the password?" he questioned, sternly.

"Eccellenza, si--come sempre."

Andrea Cornaro, to whom fear was unknown, thinking himself called, immediately responded, coming
forward into the light.

"I have somewhat to discuss with thee," Rizzo said nonchalantly. "Wilt have a mount? We will
go forth upon the ramparts and see whether all be in order."

"I have but left my horse," Cornaro answered, calling the animal to him with a motion of his
hand, "but I would first know of this tumult." He kept his hand upon the bridle and remained
standing, while he looked searchingly from Rizzo to Tripoli, the Governor of Famagosta.

"What is this tumult?" he repeated angrily, seeing them not quick to answer.

"Nay, Friend, how knowest thou not? being of the Council--as we:" Rizzo answered with a hint
of provocation in his tone. "It is but some difference of the soldiers as to rations and pay:
it threatened mutiny and had to be met. It will be put down. Mount then, your Excellency."

"'Rations,' and 'pay,'" Cornaro answered scornfully, "to rouse the city and 'put it down'--at
dead of night!"

"Aye: since they chose this time for their own deed of darkness, we men-at-arms may not be
dainty about the hour of retribution."

"The Queen--my niece," said Andrea, taking a sudden resolution and throwing the reins across
his horse's neck; "I will first go to her. Later I wait thy pleasure, Signor Rizzo; on the
ramparts, or where thou wilt.--This is no lightsome night for a woman--a mere girl."

"'A woman'--'a mere girl'!"--the Chief of Council began tauntingly.

Cornaro's hand was upon his sword.

"Scusi!" Rizzo said, suavely, being not yet ready for the break. "I meant no disrespect--but
she is young to rule. If thou wilt take thy horse, we will first seek the Queen, who would
speak with thee. Nay--not by that court--the winding mount is quieter."

The Count of Tripoli and his companions had already left them and passed into the first court,
in eager converse; but Cornaro was scarcely in the saddle before a sudden great uproar in the
streets of the city beyond the fort arrested them. Cries, as of many men in concert, proclaiming
Alfonso, son of Ferdinand of Naples, Prince of Galilee and Heir to the Crown of Cyprus--"by
order of the Council of the Realm:" deafening shouts and threats of the citizens, protesting:--sounds
of clashes of arms, terrorizing the people:--the sudden crash of the alarum bell, bursting
forth anew to drown their protests:--

Then again the traitorous cries, passing off through the more distant streets of the city:

"Viva Alfonso--Prince of Galilee and Heir to the Crown of Cyprus!"

"What meaneth this insolence!" Cornaro cried, white with passion and instantly drawing his sword.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Neapolitan was not braver than the Venetian--but with an infinitely cooler brain, well-skilled
in villany and intrigue and troubled by no sense of honor, he seized his opportunity, and when
his victim's arm was raised, he dealt him a desperate blow on the head which hurled him, with
stunning force from his horse. And then, upon the pavement of the castle-court, having him
at disadvantage and senseless from the blow, the valiant Chief of Council, cruelly and like
no loyal knight, summoned his mercenaries to his aid and dispatched his enemy with quick sword-thrusts,
bidding them toss the lifeless body into the moat that circled the castle walls.

The faithful horse was the solitary mourner who watched his unconscious master while life was
ebbing and sought to comfort him with mournful whinnies of almost human affection.

       *       *       *       *       *

Had the young knight Marco Bembo but known of his uncle's barbarous murder, and that the white-haired
Councillor Zaffo lay foully slaughtered in the first court of the castle because of his great
crime of loyalty to the Queen, he might have paused before he attempted to force an entrance
to the fortress. And yet he would not--being loyal as the venerable Councillor himself, and
as full of bravery as Andrea Cornaro; the thought of the Queen's greater need would but have
spurred his courage.

The young Venetian had reached the second court without molestation, when he turned to silence
the cry that came from a swaggering band of sailors who had followed him and were shouting
for "Alfonso--Prince of Galilee!" They fell upon him at the signal from Rizzo which marked
him guilty--for was he not a Venetian?

"E tu, traditor!"

The words rang out unanswered, save by his desperate sword.

They were but six, and he was standing against treason, for the Queen and the honor of his house!

He fought them all, without a groan, until his strength was spent; and they, eager to do the
will of this ruffianly king-maker, who was winning a fresh coronet for their Prince of Naples--this
man of force who would make much booty possible--fought six to one, and spared not.

And then, by bidding of their Chief, they flung the palpitating, tortured, lifeless remnant
of what--one little hour before--had been a loyal, noble, winsome man, dreaming of duty and
high achievement--into the horror of the moat by the pitiful wreck of Andrea Cornaro--the two
murdered for the double crimes of relationship and loyalty to the trembling girl-Queen.

XX

His Grace, the Archbishop, was among the first to respond to the summons of the alarum, having
his mind filled with weighty matters of life and death which had rendered him sleepless--some
of which he had discussed confidentially with General Saplana, who had been one of those most
distinguished and trusted by the late King.

With Saplana the Commander of Famagosta, and with his own brother Gioan Peres Fabrici, as with
some other members of the Queen's Council, many details of the conspiracy which was now being
brought to so satisfactory a conclusion, had been arranged. They knew that the Neapolitan galley
would be in port that night to support the uprising and the proclamation that should be made,
if fortune favored. They knew of Ferdinand's untiring machinations to win a hold upon this
much contested Crown of Cyprus; and none knew better how from the moment that the coveted alliance
between Janus and a Princess of Naples had been frustrated by the Venetian marriage, Ferdinand
had not ceased from intrigues to that end, secretly and zealously supported by certain men
who were holding important positions of trust in the Government of Cyprus.

Andrea Cornaro, by whose means his niece had come to her throne, would be the most formidable
individual opponent in any scheme for the benefit of Naples, and it became important to remove
him; yet it could not be done without some apparent excuse--because of his relationship to
the Queen, and because unless success were complete, they might have cause to dread the strong
galleys of Venice. So the wily Primate--keeping perhaps his own counsel as to the fabricator
of the plot--invented a scheme which he asserted that the unconscious Cornaro intended to carry
into effect that night by which, when the great bell of the Castle should sound the call to
arms, the Venetians in Famagosta, under Visconti and his band of Italian soldiers were to rise
up and murder every Cyprian member of the Council of the Realm. "Therefore let every man be
armed and ready for the defense of Cyprus when the call shall be heard. And spare not the traitors!"
he urged upon the Commander of the fortress.

"And if Visconti's men could be under restraint this night," the Archbishop suggested casually,
"and if that Chamberlain of the Queen's could be under trusty guard within the palace--not
to make suggestions in a matter more to your understanding than mine, your Excellency--but
I know the man--a troublesome one and proud and silent--my brother liketh him little. After
the Cornaro he is most to fear."

Thus Aluisi Bernardini found himself with his mother, close prisoner in the Royal palace, on
the night when his Queen most sorely needed the help he would have perilled his life to give.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Queen had been restless and could not sleep, being greatly troubled by a missive which
the Archbishop had that morning delivered into her hands and which contained a reprimand of
no gentle nature, purporting to come from His Holiness of Rome, who charged the Queen and certain
gentlemen of her kingdom with being 'wicked and ungrateful,' and assuring her that they were
everywhere so regarded, for 'certain reasons well known to the writer,' which were not named.

She had put the letter aside, meaning to discuss it with her Chamberlain in the morning; but
in the darkness and solitariness of her chamber, it assumed new proportions, and she finally
sent to pray the Lady Margherita to come to her, and they sat far into the night--Dama Margherita
trying in vain to comfort her with her assurance that she did not believe the letter to be genuine.

"His Holiness could not speak without reason," she asserted; "and having reasons, why should
he not give them--that the fault might be confessed and atoned for?--There are no reasons.
It is the work of some one who seeketh to annoy."

Dama Margherita had a positive way of seeing things, which was often helpful to Caterina's
more gracious nature.

"Cara Margherita--it was His Grace himself who gave the letter into my hand."

But Dama Margherita had no reverence for the Archbishop of Nikosia.

"I think, your Majesty, that letter is not genuine," she repeated, uncompromisingly.

"But--Margherita--the most reverend, the Archbishop would not----"

Caterina broke off with a vivid flush and left the sentence unfinished, remembering that there
had been a previous Archbishop of Nikosia whose code had not been fashioned by her ideals.

Dama Margherita had but just withdrawn when the uproar in the streets began and she rushed
back at once to her Lady's side. The sounds came muffled through the massive walls of the castle
for there was no outlook on the Piazza; it was the low muttering of a storm, none the less
terrible because undeclared. But there could be no mistaking the dread clangor of the bell,
and the two young, helpless women clung to each other in trembling silence.

Caterina was the first to recover her composure; she made a pathetic effort to steady her voice
as she spoke.

"Margherita, I must know at once what this meaneth. If one of the Council would come to me--there
is always one in the Castle--my Uncle Andrea--or the Councillor Zaffo--I would they had not
sent Aluisi and the Zia back to the palace!--and--and--I will go to the Boy."

"Dear Lady," Margherita besought her. "Let me rather bring him hither. The Council will be
coming at once--they would rather find you here. I will come with the Prince and his aya, so
soon as I shall have found one of the Council. Your Majesty will not fear to be left alone?"

"No: No!" Caterina hastened her with a motion of her hand. "The others will be here; thou wilt
hasten with the child--and then thou wilt leave me no more!"

But Dama Margherita was already far down the narrow stone corridor, beyond hearing the confession
of failing courage which would have brought her instantly back, when a tapestry was thrust
hastily aside, and Maestro Gentile, the old white-haired physician, fully armed, but with the
air of a hunted man, tottered into the room.

"They seek my life," he gasped, "I know not why. I came through the terror lest your Majesty
should need me--for it is a night!--San Nicolò save us!"

"Madonna mia!" the Queen cried piteously with clasped hands, "I do not understand!"

"It is the time for reckoning, fair Majesty; and those who have the power shall rule."

The Archbishop of Nikosia had entered the Queen's apartment unperceived and stood watching
her with eyes of triumph.

She shrank from him with a sudden comprehension of his false nature, while he offered his explanation
in a voice that struck her sensitive soul like a blow.

Instinctively she drew nearer to the old physician as if craving some stay, and laid her hand
affectionately on his arm; then she pointed to the door: "Leave us at least the courtesy of
our apartment!" she exclaimed indignantly to the Archbishop; "your Grace came unannounced."

"I came to bring your Majesty news of import," he began, taking no notice of her command. "His
Majesty of Naples----"

Was he indeed about to confess his connection with the intriguing King of Naples, of which
there had been more than one rumor? Aluisi had bidden her weigh the Primate's counsels before
accepting them.

"We will hear your news in presence of the Councillors of the Realm, whom I have already summoned,"
the Queen interrupted, raising her fragile hand with a motion of silence--her slight trembling
figure held erect by force of will, her head thrown back--her eyes flashing scorn--her voice
steadied by a supreme effort.

He paused, half in admiration, half in triumph, gloating over the success of the conspiracy
of which he had been the master-mind, while he picked the words in which he would announce
it to his victim, as one might choose the pebbles for a sling--the smoothest and the sharpest.

"It is scarce fitting that your Majesty should be last to hear what is already proclaimed throughout
Famagosta," he said, "that Alfonso of Naples hath been created Prince of Galilee and Heir to
Cyprus."

She looked at him with a scorn that burned. "Is your Grace a man," she said, "to use this speech?
Or do I not hear aright--from the horror of this night?"

Then she turned to Maestro Gentile, compassionate and protecting.

"It cannot be that any should seek thy life," she said. "Thou art my friend:--I will shield
thee here--Madonna Sanctissima! I cannot think--let us pray that this horror pass!"

She put her hands over her eyes and sank upon her knees, and Maestro Gentile knelt beside her.

There was a rush of footsteps, as of pursuers coming swiftly up the secret passage by which
the physician had entered the royal apartments; in another second the hanging was torn aside
and Rizzo, dark and ferocious, panting like some savage with the madness of the deeds already
done--his eyes glaring upon his prey--with an oath at finding them so engaged, thrust the young
Queen violently away, and sprang at the physician crying out in a voice of frenzy, as he dealt
him two desperate blows with his iron gauntleted fists.

"E tu traditor!"

It was the inglorious watchword--the signal of the brutal captain of this unequal fight; and
the mercenaries following his lead, fell upon the old man and held him down while Rizzo stripped
him of his sword, which, despite his years, he might have wielded too deftly.

There was a second's reaction from the exhaustion of the rapid chase, and while they drew breath,
the physician who had been protected from serious harm by the corslet worn under his long mantle,
had watched his opportunity, and with the agility of a hunted man, he started to his feet and
escaped into the corridor, running for his life, on and up to the ramparts.

The Queen threw herself before the doorway, in agonized pleading for the life of her friend.
But the clinging hands and streaming tears, the heroism of the girl facing all those frenzied
men alone, were as nothing to their wrath at the delay--and in a moment they had passed her
in hot pursuit.

She listened, every faculty tense to detach the sounds of this tragedy from that other, jangling
from without. She heard the footsteps of the ruffians overtaking him; she heard their demoniacal
cries, echoing back;--his faint words--"What have I done that ye seek my life,"--but the voice
came no more--only sounds of struggle, growing dimmer, as they dragged him farther away upon
the ramparts--then silence--and the misery of it burning in her brain.

She staggered back against the doorway where she stood.

Then suddenly, came a flash of agonized revelation--the consciousness that this was but one
link in the dark scheme of revolt, and with it came the acute revival of all her powers--the
sharpening of every faculty of heart and brain.

"My Boy!" she cried--her voice thrilled through the castle--"Madonna Dolorosa--My Child!" and
with the fleetness of a deer she turned and sped with flying feet, down the corridor to the
chamber of the little Prince.

So lithe--so brave--so beautiful--so tortured--so resolute--she was a thing to curb and hold!
Alvigi Fabrici, the tool of Ferdinand, would have liked to follow her and see the panting vision
of her face, when she reached the cradle of her child--and found him gone.

But there was already silence in the corridor: no faintest echo of flying feet--no vaguest
rustle of fluttering robes--a moment had sufficed for the mother's startled quest.

XXI

It was dawn after that night of tragedy.

From sheer exhaustion of passion the turmoil in the streets had subsided; the cries of indignant
protest had ceased and the populace accepted their fate in sullen acquiescence, knowing themselves
not strong enough to contest without aid those intriguing Councillors of the Realm who were
entrenched behind the impregnable fortress of Famagosta where they held close captive the Sovereign
they had sworn to defend and obey.

The Piazza was deserted: the malcontents who had gathered to mutter at the horror of the moat
where the victims of the night had been tossed unburied, had been dispersed by threat of arms;
the sentinels nodded at their posts--scarce knowing whose power they were upholding, nor by
what name men called their masters. Here and there throughout the city, a little knot of the
graver burghers might be found lingering to discuss the situation in attitudes of helpless
dejection, and scattering with their problems all unsolved. They were too insignificant to
dread, and for the moment the triumphant conspirators were content to leave the city without
further imposition or molestation to such rest as a merciful nature might vouchsafe.

They were content to yield this lull in the storm, because it gave them needful quiet in which
to mature fresh intrigues, to insure their triumph. Those men of Venice of the Queen's household,
who would most strenuously have resisted them, had been quieted forever, it was true; but,
as dawn lightened over the ghastly faces upturned beneath the windows of the poor young Queen,
an unconfessed tremor stole into the doughty breasts of Rizzo and Fabrici, in the place where
most men wear their hearts, and they got them together, in friendly converse, to ponder what
should come next.

For Venice was mightier than Naples--and the password they had so successfully wielded for
a night--"à bas Venezia"--might not suffice to hold for the young Alfonso the dignity of Prince
of Galilee, which they had proclaimed for him throughout the protesting city; it might even
have a baneful ring, when news of the night's murders should reach the Republic. A plausible
reason for the death must be contrived and sent forward with letters signed by the Queen's
own hand, under the Royal Seal of Cyprus, accompanied with decorous lamentations and condolences
on the part of her Councillors--such as one Government is wont to offer to another at the death
of any distinguished patrician.

For the Chief of Council, Rizzo di Marin and his Grace the Archbishop of Nikosia, no rest was
needful: the consciousness of triumph stirred the blood in their veins like strong wine, and
with a sense of exhilaration sharpening all their intellectual faculties, they prepared, in
a few hours, work that might ordinarily have required the consideration of days. When they
closed their conference they had contrived a sheaf of pretty documents which did more honor
to their astuteness than to their loyalty, and which, with the signature of the Queen, would
put them in possession of all the strongholds on the coast and many positions of vantage throughout
the island, including the splendid city of Nikosia--which had shown much dangerous friendliness
for Queen Caterina. It was a marvellous bold scheme--a bloodless victory for Alfonso, Prince
of Naples; and Rizzo grew grimly merry as he discussed it with His Grace.

His malignant eyes rested fondly on this order for the surrender of the famous stronghold of
Cerines to a nephew of General Saplana, the treacherous Commander of Famagosta; with two such
fortresses they should command the coast, and their empire in Cyprus was assured. It was a
work of genius, this little parchment--he could scarcely bear to fold it out of his sight in
the pouch that he wore next to his heart of stone.

And this--to the magnificent Lord Admiral Mutio di Costanzo, Vice-Roy of Nikosia and friend
to Caterina, who had received her oath of allegiance after the death of Janus--so high he stood
among the nobles of Cyprus--Rizzo's eyes fairly gleamed as he gloated over it--this order commanding
him to yield up the splendid city of Nikosia, with his fortress of Costanza and the fleets
of the island, to those who should present this parchment with the little signature of Caterina
Regina. He, Rizzo, would take the governorship of this city of Nikosia--or, perhaps, the command
of the fleets--he knew not which--that was a trifle to decide since all would be in his power:
and of course he should instantly re-man the galleys. He allowed himself a moment's vision
of this stately Knight Mutio de Costanzo, with his escort of cavaliers--the forty of his noble
house entitled to wear the Golden Spurs--surrendering his holdings at the Queen's command,
to those whom Rizzo should elect--Rizzo, who had heard himself called "that parvenu of Naples"--and
the vision filled him with delight.

Then he folded the other orders without a glance, they touched upon minor points of vantage
and entered properly into his scheme--the cities of Limisso and, perhaps, of Costanzo--but
that might be requiring too much of the noble Lord of Costanzo, this could wait; he crumpled
it in his hand. As for this Castel Dio d'Amore, it was well.

Still another paper he folded in his pouch. That one must go first beneath her signature lest
the pretty little Queen should rebel.--But she should not rebel!--By all the saints and devils,
it was a good night's work!

And for that session he wrote no more.

When the pouch, compact and hard, lay closely over the place of his heart, it stirred a thought,
and he laughed a short wild laugh, with no melody in it. He did not know his own laugh, and
it startled him.

"Perhaps," he thought, "when he should have presided over the investiture of these cities and
strongholds of Cyprus in the interests of Naples and Alfonso, 'Prince of Galilee'--installing
his own creatures in all those places of power--if Naples were not properly subservient and
grateful--he, holding the key to the land--perhaps----"

It was a vision that pleased him even better than that of the noble Lord Mutio di Costanzo,
surrounded by his escort of cavaliers, golden-spurred, delivering the keys of the city of Nikosia.
But he forgot to confide this last tantalizing, supremest vision to His Grace the Archbishop.

These documents had been prepared in the underground Chamber of Conference of the Fortress,
where secrets might be freely uttered because of the double walls of massive masonry: where
flaring torches fastened high in the chamber, scattered the ghostly shadows, and ample potations
of the fine wine of the "Commanderie" sustained their courage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, a slender figure with vizor down, showing a tunic of mail between the folds of a
dark mantle, came out from the Fortress, and stepping forth into the gray of the dawn, crossed
to the Palazzo Reale, with slow, uncertain footsteps.

"Open!--In the name of the Queen's Council!"

The words came in muffled tones from behind the vizor--uncertain, like the footsteps, yet impossible
to disregard.

"The password for this night?" the guard demanded.

It was given at once, but with visible repugnance--"à bas Venezia!"

"Are ye many?"

"But one."

The bars were instantly drawn back and the young knight entered the first court of the palace.

"Halt! Declare for whom thou standest. That password is already outworn: for they of the Queen's
Council be of two minds."

As if from a sense of suffocation the cloak was torn off showing a suit of armor too heavy
for the slight limbs; and the helmet was loosened with supple, nervous fingers, disclosing
a face pale, strong and soulful. The face might have been that of a man--an artist, or a poet;
but the hair, lying in loose, dusky waves about the brows, and low, in rich clinging coils
at the back of the shapely head, could only belong to a woman.

A sudden wrath flamed in her deep eyes.

"If they of the Queen's Council be of two minds they are craven, though I, a woman say it!
But the Queen's guard, in the Queen's palace, can have but one mind--to uphold her cause!"

There was no other voice in all Cyprus so tender, so compelling, so magnetic, so all-convincing;
the voice revealed her.

"Dama Margherita de Iblin!" was echoed about the court in surprise. The news spread. The men-at-arms
came thronging about her with reiterated assurances of loyalty; it was good to confess their
faith to her.

"We hold this palace for our Queen," they said, "and for no traitorous Council. May the holy
Saints in Heaven curse them roundly who forced us to do their bidding, when we thought ourselves
serving Her Majesty!"

"How came ye so many here?" she asked in astonishment, as they still gathered from the farther
courts--a number far greater than the usual Palace-guard--chiefly a company of knights and
men entitled to bear arms, but among them many of the more peaceful citizens.

"Whom serve ye all?" She looked keenly from face to face: her words seemed a challenge.

"Caterina Regina!" they cried in concert, with every man's right hand upraised, calling Heaven
to witness.

One, with signs of authority stepped forward to explain.

"Eccellenza, we are in command of the Lord Chamberlain Bernardini, who, since he fought his
way through the false guard placed before this palace to serve the treachery of the Council,
hath not ceased to gather men of metal throughout the city, till enough shall come to claim
the Queen's release. For the cries of the women and unarmed weaklings clamoring under the walls
of the fortress for her release, are but impotent wails to tickle the pride of those fiends
of Naples."

"Bring me to the Bernardini, for I must speak with him on matter, it may be, of life, or death."

"Eccellentissima, the Lord Chamberlain hath not stayed his foot since this horror began--nor
may we see his face until he hath done the possible to gather strength for an uprising to chase
these devils of Naples."

"Dear men!" she cried, "it is a task!--I speak, not to stay your loyal hands, but to open your
eyes that ye be prepared and fail not. The Commander of Famagosta hath men and arms behind
those impregnable walls, and all the wicked strength of his cunning Council to direct them,--Rizzo
and Fabrici--masters in intrigue--and the men of the galleys of Naples at the tower in the
port, commanding land and sea. Without more force it is impossible!"

"Dear Lady, the Bernardini lacketh no courage, and he commandeth. He hath sworn that we shall
save the Queen. The Admiral will come from Nikosia; and the galleys of Venice will haste to
the rescue, Pazienza! We are bidden to keep the peace and secrecy until the moment shall be
ripe; but to die in defense of this palace, which we hold for Her Majesty as a place of refuge."

"Dost bring us news of her. How fares it with Her Majesty?"

"For that I came!" cried Dama Margherita, her voice ringing through the hall like a leader's
call to arms; "to bring news of her to her own! How should it fare with a Queen made captive
in her own stronghold?--With a mother whose child hath been stolen from her?--With a woman
struggling with such anguish?"

"The Prince!--Our King! Sanctissima Maria! San Marco confound the knaves!"

Every man's hand sought his sword with a murmured oath of loyalty and vengeance. Questions
stormed upon her: but she commanded silence with a gesture.

It was news indeed; no hint of it had passed beyond the walls of the Fortress.

"Of where he may be hidden, naught is known. Yet the galley of Naples lieth in our port, and
one may reach it at low tide over the shallows--a few feet away from the tower of the Fort.
It were easy to carry the child there unseen."

"Aye; it were easy--and not so hard to find him--if he were there."

"Nay, but to hold him when found! Do it not rashly, lest harm come to him. The Bernardini will
plan the emprise. Tell him the Lady Margherita came at risk of life--in this disguise--to put
his true men on the quest. Tell him----"

She was interrupted by an exclamation.

"Margherita!--the Lady de Iblin--thus!"

The Bernardini had just entered the court of the Palace.

A vivid flush rose to her cheek, but she stood quite still in the place where he had found
her, and he came and bent his knee and kissed her hand with the customary homage.

"Else might I not have crossed the Piazza," she said, "nor left the gate of the Castle. It
is easy to forfeit one's head at a moment of wrath where Rizzo commandeth! And one--a guard
within the Fortress, friend to our cause unguessed of the Council--hath lent me this disguise
that I might bring thee my so weighty tidings of woe."

"'So weighty tidings of woe?'" he echoed startled.

"These will tell it thee," she went on hurriedly, "for I must be returned to my chamber ere
the change of guard--lest he be called on duty and fail to respond with this full toggery of
steel, because he hath shown me this favor."

"The Queen?" he gasped.

"The Queen still liveth; but--oh, my Lord, Aluisi!"--her voice broke and her lips quivered,
she stretched out her hands to him, the nervous fingers interlaced in a passion of pleading--"they
have stolen the baby-Prince: she will go mad if they keep him from her!"

"They shall not!" he thundered with a terrible oath: he--whose speech was fair as a woman's.
"Tell her we pledge our lives to find him--to save them both--all these and many more."

With a gesture he included all the company.

"Heaven hear us!" they swore in deep, angry, concert.

She turned her face to them, a great light shining in her eyes.

"I carry Her Majesty the strength of your loyalty, dear friends," she said. "The Madonna be
praised--for her need is sore!"

Then, quite silently, and as with a solemn act of consecration, she made the sign of the Cross
before the Leader who was to save the Queen, and with quick footsteps passed under the peristyle.

"Margherita!"

She motioned him back as he would have followed her, and he stood and watched her--his heart
in his throat--until she had crossed the moat and been admitted to the Fort--the Lady Margherita--alone--in
such a guise--fearless and direct as ever.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sunrise was just gilding the sea: it flashed and sparkled as if there were no woe.

XXII

The horror of the night still lay over Caterina like a dense pall, clouding her understanding,
when the Chief of Council and the Archbishop passed between the guards whom Rizzo had placed
to watch within the doors of the Queen's chambers, where, prostrated by anguish and anxiety,
one scheme after another for the recovery of her child absorbed her to the exclusion of all
other grief. She looked up dumbly as Rizzo and Fabrici drew near her couch--her eyes deep with
unspeakable misery.

The Lady Margherita, watching near her, was indignant at the intrusion; she rose and stood
before the Queen.

"My Lords, you forget yourselves--Her Majesty hath not summoned you."

"There are moments, my Lady of Iblin, when Majesty is but a farce--and Power need not do it
reverence!"

The Queen heard without heeding the words: but the insolent smile on the face of the speaker
displeased her. She closed her eyes and turned her head away, imploring them by a gesture to
leave her. She had exhausted every argument to induce them to restore her child or even to
disclose his whereabouts--she had pleaded as only a mother may, but in vain; and worn by the
unequal contest and all unnerved, she now feared to anger them further with impotent protests
lest she should tempt them to cruelty towards her child.

The Archbishop took a step towards her, pausing for a moment, irresolute, before attempting
further coercion. But the cold glitter in the eyes of his companion urged him to conclude his
task, and he spread a paper open on the table beside her.

From pity, or from wile, if not from shame, he assumed a tone of deference as he explained:

"Your Majesty, it will be needful at once to send advices to Venice, bearing our condolences
for the sad fate of our noble Messrs Andrea Cornaro, and the young Seigneur Marco Bembo."

The names roused her: she had been told of their fate, but everything had been forgotten in
the later anguish. Now she remembered with a sharp sting of pain, and she turned her face toward
the speaker, waiting to hear why they stayed to torment her.

"It will be well for your Majesty to sign this writing, which we have prepared to explain to
the Signoria the tragic ending of the quarrel of their Excellencies with a band of laborers
whom they had refused to pay."

Caterina had been gazing fixedly at the Archbishop while he spoke, trying to understand. Now
she made a supreme effort to shake off her lethargy, seeming for the moment so like her usual
self that the two conspirators trembled for their schemes.

"The Council hath not found our signature needful for their extraordinary action of the night,"
she said. "This letter is of less consequence. We pray you to leave us."

Rizzo strove to hearten his colleague with a glance, as the Archbishop produced the casket
which held the Royal Signet and placed it open on the table beside the letter which the Queen
had thrust aside, and which lacked only the royal signature to be complete. It had been folded
and superscribed with all due formality and homage.

"Serenissimo Principe et Domine excellentissimo, Domine Nicolò Marcello, Dei gratia inclito
duci Venetiarum, etc., Domine colendissimo."

The broad band of white-dressed skin by which it was to be closed was already fastened to the
letter, though it hung loose with the silken fillets of blue and white which were to attach
the great Seal of Janus the III--the helpless infant king whom his wily ministers had stolen
from his mother's arms.

Rizzo, opening the casket, stood for a moment gloating over the mastery he was to achieve with
this little instrument of the Great Seal of the Kingdom--his triumphant gaze fastened on his
scarlet treasure--a pretty toy of wax for such a ruffian to find of consequence, bearing the
escutcheons of Jerusalem, of Cyprus, of Armenia and Lusignan, with the naked sword of Peter
the Valiant for a crest; and for border, encircling the Seal, the legend punctuated by heraldic
roses--

"Jacobus, Dei Gratia, 22 us Rex Jherusalem, Cipri et Armenia."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Rizzo, Rex!"

The Chief of Council syllabled the sweet morsel of his outrageous thought without utterance.
There was no further need for any keeper of the Privy Seals; there was no longer any need for
anyone but Rizzo in this Council of the Realm!

But Dama Margherita, closely watching and fearing treachery, stole nearer to the table, standing
over the open letter which she had read from end to end before the Chief of Council, in his
absorption, had perceived her action. Now he felt her condemnatory eyes upon him, like the
merciless gaze of a fate, and he would not look towards her while he rudely seized the letter
and pushed it nearer to the Queen.

"It is well for your Majesty to understand," he said imperatively, "that this matter is not
one for choice--but of necessity."

"We do not understand," the Queen answered haughtily, but already her voice showed failing
strength.

"Guards!" cried the Lady Margherita with tingling cheeks, to the men who stood just within
the doorway, "arrest these intruders!--They trouble the Queen's peace."

Unconsciously the men took a step forward--the words had rung out like a command: but Rizzo,
with a face of insolent mastery, made a motion which arrested them, and they knew that their
impulse had been a momentary madness.

"The Child----" Rizzo began in icy tones, speaking with slow emphasis, his eyes fixed upon
the Queen.

The mother sprang to her feet, alert on the instant, her strength surging back tumultuously--every
faculty tense.

"The child is safe--while your Majesty is careful to fulfil our pleasure."

"My Lords," cried Dama Margherita, fearlessly, "the writing on this parchment is not true."

The hand of the Chief of Council fell to his sword, as if he would have struck her down--then--remembering
that she was but a woman, in spite of her splendid courage, he withdrew it with a shower of
muttered oaths.

"It is the writing which Her Majesty will sign to insure the safety of her child," he asserted,
in uncompromising tones.

The Queen turned from one pitiless face to the other and knew that there was no hope for her.

"My God, I shall go mad!" she moaned, as she seized the pen with trembling fingers, unconscious
that she had spoken: then in a last, desperate appeal, she cried to Fabrici:

"Most Reverend Father, by your hopes of Heaven, I implore you--give me my boy again! il mio
dilettissimo figlio! See, I sign the parchment!" and with feverish strokes she wrote her name;
then with hands strained tightly together, awaited her answer.

Fabrici moved uncomfortably, turning his gaze away from the stricken, overwrought face: his
cruel triumph began to seem unworthy.

But Rizzo calmly affixed the Royal Seal, covering it with the small wooden case prepared for
its protection and knotting it firmly in place with the silken fillets--so careful lest a bruise
should show upon the fair, waxen surface--he who could crush a woman's heart to breaking, or
watch the life-blood dripping from some cruel wound that he had made, as lightly as he would
drop the red wax for his stolen signet--it was all one to his deadly purpose.

"Thanks, your Majesty," he said, "there are yet other documents to be signed," and he laid
them before her.

"My child!" she cried in extremity; "have mercy--restore him to me--I have fulfilled your pleasure!"

"Your Majesty hath forgotten these," said Rizzo, "and the penalty--if they are left unsigned."

       *       *       *       *       *

Again she seized the pen and wrote her name as with her life-blood--great veins starting out
on her white forehead, her eyes dim and blurred, her heart beating so that she scarce could
trace the words that seemed an irony:

"Caterina, Regina!"

"At last!" she gasped, as the pen fell from her hand--"Madre Sanctissima--they will bring my boy!"

"It is enough that he is safe," the Chief of Council answered her. "We did not promise more."

The Archbishop, stout-hearted though he was, felt his soul quail within him, as he glanced
at the figure of this young mother agonizing for her child--his Sovereign to whom he had sworn
fealty. He turned away from her to strengthen his resolve, taking a few paces forward, thinking
perhaps of that "act of homage," over his own signature, duly witnessed, sealed and recorded
in the Libro delle Rimembranze, "Homagio et fideltà che è obligato a fare a la Magiestà sua,
segondo le lege et usanze di questo regno."

("Homage and faith, which he is obliged to swear to Her Majesty, according to the laws and
customs of this realm.")

Margherita turned to Fabrici, who seemed to her less inhuman than Rizzo, for she had noticed
the slight weakening in his attitude. "Pardon me, your Grace," she said in a tone of quiet
deference; "hath the learned body of the Queen's Council no knowledge of the crime of lese-majesty?"

Fabrici made no answer, being conscious-stricken; but Rizzo turned upon her with blazing eyes.

"Beware!" he stormed, "a man, for less, hath paid the forfeit of his life."

"Life were worth little," she answered undaunted, "if one must forfeit it for speaking truth--or
for so poor attempt as mine to spare our Queen in such extremity."

He had looked to see her cower and shrink as men had often done under the glare of his angry
gaze; but she stood before him tall, straight and calm--so near that he might have felled her
to the ground; there was no fear in her deep eyes while she gave him back his look of hatred,
unflinching; dimly he realized that this woman had measured the manhood in him and found it
beneath her scorn.

Then--as if he had not been--she turned her gaze from him.

"Your Grace," she said proudly, "it is for the last time,--your Queen--whom you have sworn
to uphold--and I--Margherita, of the most ancient noble house of the de Iblin, who have ever
served their Sovereigns with their life--we demand our Prince of you; and all Cyprus is with us!"

But if these dastardly usurpers were inexorable, heaven, more merciful, sent the respite of
unconsciousness to quiet the mother's anguish just as she could bear no more. Rizzo was speaking
when she tottered and fell into the shielding arms of Margherita.

"We may need the infant," he was explaining pitilessly, "to force a deed of renunciation in
favor of Alfonso, Prince of Galilee."

"A sword thrust were more merciful," cried Margherita, now roused to a passion of scorn. "How
may a man dare perjure his soul to bring her to this!"

Rizzo having nothing further to gain from the interview left the chamber precipitately, muttering
oaths; but the Archbishop lingered, from a dim, dawning sense of compunction, watching helplessly
while Dama Margherita ministered to the victim of these Councillors who had been created to
assist their youthful Queen in her weary task of ruling.

"More air!" Dama Margherita ordered of the guards, pointing to the closely barred windows.
"Strong wine--and one of Her Majesty's ladies to aid me--I may not leave her for an instant.
The Lady of the Bernardini were best--will your Grace give the order? We must needs save her
life while she hath yet a favor to grant."

XXIII

It was the festa of San Triphilio, patron-saint of the city of Nikosia; the great church on
the bluff beside the castle was filled with the sickly flames of paltry candles brought by
the peasants from far and near. From the quaint tower on the castle-wall one might see them
coming in little processions, winding through the forest that clothed the plains below--pausing
on the banks of the stream Pedea, to gather water-bloom and rushes to scatter before the shrine
of San Triphilio, in memory of the early days when the city had sprung from the marshes to
stand--fair and firm upon the hillside above them, beautiful to behold--girt about with impregnable
walls and gateways, guarded by its famous citadel, and fortified within by churches dedicated
to many saints.

To-day the gates stood hospitably open, to welcome the people who came and went unchallenged
through them, wearing their holiday faces and bearing their burden of bloom and green--lotus
flowers for the altars, and rushes to scatter on the steps before them--pausing before they
entered the sacred precincts to lave their hands in the 'Fountain of Ablution.'

It was truly a festa of the people, and the Cyprian peasants who were a gentle, superstitious,
ignorant race, devoutly subject to their priests and trained to the letter of their religious
rites, came in from the mountains and the neighboring villages in numbers but rarely seen in
the city: a motley throng--yet no shepherd among them was too poor to wear the boot of dark-green
leather reaching to the knee--the bodine roughly fashioned and tough enough to protect them
from the bites of the serpents which infested the island.

Here and there some shepherd was leading with pardonable pride a sheep who gave a more than
usual promise of fine wool, its extraordinary tail, bushy with soft long fleece, carefully
spread out on the tiny cart to which it was harnessed for its own protection. It came, meek-eyed
and wondering, if a little weary, to this festa of San Triphilio, to whom its first shearing
would be vowed, as a special tribute to the saint and a talisman to shield the flocks upon
the mountains.

The shepherd might draw himself away, perchance, with a mingling of caste-feeling and of superstition,
from some poorer villager of the sect of the "Linobambaki"--a dark, unkempt figure, with his
scarlet fez, his string of undressed poultry hanging from his shoulder, even on this day of
festa when the saints give all good Christians holiday! But he, poor man, was neither Christian
nor pagan--a wonder that the good Lord made him so!--(expressed with devout crossing and genuflexion)--and
he would sell a fowl on a holiday for the asking and the few copper carcie that it would bring
him, as though he were quite all Mussulman and not half Christian, as his contemptuous nickname
signified--a mixture of royal linen and plebeian cotton! His touch might well defile the sacred
sheep!

Here was a picturesque peasant-priest from the province of Ormidia, who had left his work in
the fields and was moving among the crowd with a slow dignity of motion and the mien of some
antique statue--with sheep-skin garments of no shape, nor fashion, nor color, to mark his date--his
hair flowing in loose waves to the throat, from under the high, conical hat, his full curling
beard and moustache obscuring the lines of the face and intensifying its impassiveness--only
in the eyes, without curiosity, a mild look of question at the strangeness of the ways and
sights of cities--such as some shepherd-god might wear,--reserving judgment.

To-day, also, some stray brother of the lower order of the Knights Hospitallers might be seen
among the throng,--a white star, eight pointed on the breast of the black gown with which in
early ages he had been invested by the Patriarch of Jerusalem: and near him some Crusader,
with the red cross on his silver mail.

The burghers, too, were abroad in the arcades of the streets of Nikosia, gathering in groups
before the Palazzo Reale which had been the residence of the kings of the island until Janus
had removed his capital to Famagosta.

But Nikosia had always been a cradle of loyalty in spite of a floating population of strangers
who came thronging to visit her monuments and palaces--to see the wonder of her merchandise
gathered from the riches of her own fertile land--fruits and wines and silks and jewels, broideries
of gold and silver wrought by her peasant women among their vines--exquisite vessels of beaten
copper from the famous mines which had baptised this island of Cyprus. But there were carpets
also from Persia, and fabulous Eastern stuffs--linens from Egypt, gossamer-fine; and carvings
of ivory and gold, and drugs and spices from Arabia. There were slaves too--most fair to look
upon--everything that might minister to the luxury of a great city, as there were churches,
of many religions, and altars to many saints.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly a troop of horsemen dashed rapidly through the open gates and into the heart of the
city among all the loitering holiday-wanderers, rousing them to instant strenuousness.

"There is news!" some one cried startled. "They have come to pause at the palace of the Vice-Roy.
The leader is already within--he hath not waited for his gentlemen to announce him!"

"Aye, there is news:--may the Saints have mercy!" one of the burghers answered to the quick
questions of the visitors from the hamlets. "And it is strange news, I wot--Heaven help us!
For that was our own Seigneur, Pietro Davilla, new created a Knight of St. John, and gone but
this morning, with all the gentlemen and squires of his household, to pay his homage--a leal
Knight to Her Majesty. It must be some dread matter that hath chanced to turn him from such
duty and purpose ere he could reach Famagosta."

"That was the Seigneur Davilla, on the black champing steed? one of the Councillors of the
Realm?" a stranger asked.

"Aye, man; thou art in luck to see our Seigneur with all his bravery of men and horse! That
was he who entered the palace of the Vice-Roy."

"And that other--all armed, with vizor down--the steed that bore him foaming with haste, as
if his hoof had scarce touched ground?"

"I know not: but he weareth the colors of the Royal House. He hath the look of some spent herald.
See, they summon him from within! It must be that he bringeth tidings from Famagosta. Pray
Heaven it is well with Her Majesty!"

"And with our Prince!"

"Viva la Regina!"

"Heaven save the Queen and the Infant King!"

A tumult of vivas broke from the excited throng who were on edge with unquiet expectation.

And while they still waited watching the signs of commotion through the palace portals, they
beguiled their impatience with bits of broken talk--strange surmises--asseverations of loyalty--distrust
of the foreigners who filled important offices in the Government, especially of the Council
of the Realm, which they looked upon with unconcealed displeasure. For they of Nikosia were
desperately loyal and somewhat sore, withal, that King Janus had seen fit to remove the capital
from their splendid city of Nikosia, which from the beginning of the Lusignan dynasty, had
held this supremacy.

"For that Janus had captured Famagosta from Genoa, a feat of prowess for his youth--and so
would make his boast on it--keeping it ever in mind," an elderly citizen explained to the crowd
with a singular mingling of admiration and disapproval. "And mayhap he might have lived to
learn more wisdom--may God have mercy on his soul!--if it had pleased His Majesty to dwell
in our Palazzo Reale of Nikosia, where one may breathe the air of Heaven, instead of a pestiferous
malaria from the marshes of Famagosta."

"It would be well that Her Majesty came hither to dwell," said one of the burghers eagerly;
"and the Prince--because of the noisome air and water of Famagosta."

"Aye; and because of other things," interposed a stalwart man who had just issued from the
palace of the Vice-Roy and joined the waiting throng. "That she may dwell among a loyal people
and away from the Council of the Realm which one may not trust."

He spoke in tones of bitter wrath, startling the others by his hint of danger.

"How 'the Council of the Realm'?" another citizen questioned, astonished and half indignant.
"Is not our Seigneur Pietro Davilla one of them?"

"Aye--he is one--but a noble of Nikosia--our loyal city. And because of his loyalty--lest he
be thought one with their foul purposes--he hath returned in haste. I spoke with one of his
gentlemen but now. Nay, bide your time." For the crowd turned upon him with an avalanche of
ejaculations and questions: "it will be proclaimed from the Palazzo Reale."

"But, Stefano--the Council of the Realm?" one of his listeners persisted.

"There are too many foreigners in the Council: and that black-browed fiend of Naples is the
worst of them!"

"Be not so daring, man! Hast thou no fear?" a stranger in the crowd exclaimed warningly; "we
shall all be arrested for rebels."

"Fear!" a citizen echoed--"Santa Vergine! That was our Stefano!--thou knowest him not."

But Stefano was one who spoke when it pleased him: he deigned no reply, but fixed an intent
gaze on the balcony of the palace, while the crowd fell to talk among themselves, still waiting
eagerly for news.

Stefano Caduna, this man of the people, was, in truth an idol in Nikosia: rugged, commanding,
with an air and tone of authority, the people looked to him for leadership. While they were
speaking he moved quickly forward, the crowd making way for him at his quiet gesture--the strong
hand, slightly raised.

"Pace!" he commanded, with a motion toward the palace of the Vice-Roy, and an instant hush
fell upon the throng.

A band of knights, fully armed, came forth and stood before the palace portal, while their
banner-bearers unrolled the standards of the Queen and the Prince--a challenge to the eager
cries of loyalty which greeted them. Mounted messengers were dashing with orders up to the
citadel and down to the city-gates. The Vice-Roy himself had come to the balcony above the
portal and stood watching the messengers anxiously, as if he would speed them beyond their
possible. Then he turned to the crowd of eager, upturned faces, now quieted once more, by an
imperative motion from Stefano.

Mutio di Costanzo, Admiral of Cyprus and Vice-Roy of Nikosia, Lord of the city and fortress
of Costanza, one of a long line of knights, was a gentleman of honor devoted to the Crown and
a loyal friend to the Queen: he held the confidence of the people and deserved it well.

An inarticulate murmur of devotion stirred the crowd as he stood for a moment quite silent
before them, too overcome by emotion to trust himself to speech. When he spoke, his voice was
calm, far-reaching and authoritative.

"Citizens of Nikosia," he said, "I bring you black news of perfidy to our Queen and infant King."

He was interrupted by deafening cries of anger and alarm; but Stefano commanded silence.

"I know," the Admiral continued, his noble face a shade less stern, "that every heart and arm
in Nikosia is hot for her defense."

And now Stefano let the passion of loyalty have sway. But the Admiral had more to say.

"The gates of the city will be instantly closed and closely guarded; no man will be allowed
to enter who doth not declare for the Queen--who is captive in the Fortress of Famagosta."

The shock of the news held them dumb while they listened. "The Council of Nikosia will sit
at once to discuss measures for her release; the forces of Nikosia and of the citadel will
immediately report, fully armed. The traitors are Rizzo di Marin and others of the Council
of the Realm who have insolently proclaimed Alfonso of Naples as Prince of Galilee and Heir
to the Crown of Cyprus."

But now their voices came back to them, sputtering, uncontrolled; a babel of sounds arose,
cries of loyalty--of fear--of indignation and wrath and fervor of affection--of hatred for
the Council. Questionings, denunciations, curses that made one's hair stand on end--

Only for a moment.

Then the voice of the Admiral was heard again, stilling the chaos as by magic.

"Every man to his post. Let order prevail, for love of our Queen! We have stern work before us."

And below, among the people, Stefano Caduna boiling with suppressed anger, which deepened his
voice to an ominous calm--as of the lull before an earthquake--saw that the orders of the Vice-Roy
were instantly obeyed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stefano was in the very heart of the action in Nikosia during the days that followed; the people
furious at the outrage to their Queen, swore that it should be people against nobles, if there
were need, in her defense; and assembling in great numbers, at the house of Stefano, they chose
a 'Council of the People' and made him its chief.

And well it was for the peace of Nikosia that Stefano was gifted with that rare power which
marks some men for mediators in time of storm. He stood between the nobles and the people,
trusted by both parties--a man of force and judgment--reticent, comprehending, swift to see
his way and scorning subterfuge.

He it was who headed a delegation of the people to urge their petition that the Queen should
be rescued with all speed and brought for safety within their walled and loyal city, and who
rested not until the Vice-Roy with all his knights and all the forces that could be spared
from the defense of Nikosia and of the citadel which they were holding for Her Majesty, had
ridden forth to Famagosta.

Stefano commanded the guard at the gates of Nikosia--as also the force of the entire city,
during the absence of the Vice-Roy: and he could be swerved nor fooled by no entreaties nor
orders from any noble in the land. "No man entereth," he explained in that terrible cold iron
voice of his, "save only he who sweareth to live and die in defense of Her Majesty."

He it was, also, who, waiting for no parleying, thundered a refusal to surrender the city to
those who brought the demand from the Fortress of Famagosta, signed in trembling letters by
the Queen's own hand, "Caterina Regina."

"Nay, but Her Majesty shall write the letters from her own palace--freely--that we, her loyal,
servitors may know her will,--or ever we surrender her city of Nikosia." And so, sent back
the envoys of Rizzo--foiled.

And when some days later, yet others came--a company of mounted noblemen, demanding entrance
in the Queen's name to deliver her answer to the letter sent by the Council of the People from
Nikosia and to take their oath of loyalty--Stefano, still unbelieving, not knowing how it fared
in Famagosta, gave his unvarying answer:

"No man entereth, save only he who sweareth to live and die in the Queen's defense."

"We are content to swear," they answered him.

But still he gave no order to open the gates, but rode forth himself with the captains of the
Council of the People, fully armed, to meet them, dismounting as they approached and offering
all courteous salutations of the time--yet with reluctant speech--fearing to grant unwise credence,
lest this should be some new perfidy.

"Think not to deceive us with fair words," said Stefano, "who hold this city for our Queen;
but if with most solemn oath ye swear to live and die in her defense, we make you welcome."

"On most fair honor of a Knight," they answered him, "in the name of San Giovanni!"

"Call hither the Chaplain with the Holy Book!" said Stefano.

And so without the city, Stefano Caduna, man of the people, received the most solemn oath of
these knights and nobles, envoys of the Queen, bareheaded and on bended knee before him, ere
he would consent to unbar the gates of Nikosia to receive Her Majesty's own messengers.

XXIV

The immediate liberation of the Queen had seemed a well-nigh hopeless quest to the body of
brave men who were on their way to Famagosta, to pledge the loyalty of their city of Nikosia,
so soon as news of the conspiracy had been proclaimed, and they had deemed it rather to be
won by strategy than prowess. For the Cyprian forces were few and were chiefly intrenched in
the fortress of Famagosta--the most formidable of all the strongholds of Cyprus--leaving no
trained men at arms in the city itself, which thus lay unprotected, close under the vigilance
of the now hostile Citadel, whose commander, Saplana, had been a favorite of the King but was
now among the traitors. The Count of Tripoli was foremost among the leaders of this intrigue
and he was Governor of the city of Famagosta! And scattered among this Cyprian corps to see
the orders enforced, was a band of mercenaries brought from Naples by Rizzo!

The situation in Famagosta had been briefly indicated in the despatch which the courier of
Bernardini had urged his spent and panting steed to deliver in Nikosia; there were also certain
dark hints of rumors current among the outraged populace, that Rizzo, Chief-of-the-Council
appointed to help the Queen, might soon be master of all the strongholds of the island, having
forced letters from the Queen commanding their surrender to the envoys of the Chief-of-Council.

Outside the cities news travels slowly, as all men know. For along the highways there are no
marke-places whence it may be proclaimed--there is no eager populace to tell it from mouth
to mouth, and these treacherous orders might even reach the forts and be obeyed in all good
faith, by their Commanders before they could have any suspicion of the revolt of the Council.

Of the wisdom and foresight of the Queen's Venetian Chamberlain the Admiral had ample proof;
since the Bernardini's message of alarm, sent the night before the mutiny, had arrived only
a few hours before it had been followed by his second despatch, in swift and terrible justification.

Because of these rumors Mutio di Costanzo, Admiral of Cyprus, had ordered messages of warning
sent to the chief citadels, as he had been able, before he left Nikosia; and also because of
them, he rode to-day with a so scanty following not having dared to leave any points of vantage
without sufficient guard.

He turned and surveyed his little band of Knights with frowning brows--his invincible Knights
of the Golden Spurs--they seemed so few in the face of the perplexities of his problem.

Not that any thought of personal danger for himself or for them, in the few against the many,
entered into his difficulties; but that the facts made failure a possibility; and there must
be no failure.

He raised his visor and each man saw his leader's face as the face of a conqueror.

"Coraggio, Signori!" he cried; "our cause is just! God and San Giovanni make strong our arms!"

Well might he be proud of this noble company pressing forward silently, but with quickening
pace, at sight of the urgency in their leader's face.

No noble house of Cyprus could boast more ancient lineage, nor so many knights entitled to
wear the golden spurs, nor more honorable trophies of the valor dear to knightly hearts. They
rode all in full armor, some bearing their famous shields of crimson with the quaint heraldic
lion rampant on his golden bar--the device which all men knew had been granted them for extraordinary
proof of prowess centuries before.

For this noble family the ancient city of Costanza had been named; and the quaint church of
Santa Maria di Costanza, rich in relics and in decoration, had been the private chapel of their
historic Castle.

To the assuring rhythm of their strenuous tramp the Admiral turned again to his unsolved problems.
For the galleys of Cyprus had hitherto been kept armed by force, but recently their crews had
been disbanded, in obedience to a strange clause in the will of King Janus. Now, as Mutio di
Costanzo went on his way, wrapped in meditations that were not cheering, the question came
to him--"Why?"

Janus, whatever his gifts, had been no judge of men--possibly from too strong reliance in his
own power to conquer them by his personal charm. Had this disbanding been deftly suggested
to the facile King by his friend, the arch-schemer of Naples?

Was the wily Rizzo, even in those days, planning to leave Cyprus defenceless?

The Admiral gnashed his teeth and sent up a smothered cry to all the saints that his wrath
might not unnerve him to the point of losing his iron grip upon himself.

But the situation was not rendered less galling by the reflection that the port of Famagosta--the
sole harbor of importance in the island--was covered by the citadel commanded by a traitor;
that just within the port a galley flaunting the colors of Naples, rode complacently; and that
there were no longer any Cyprian ships-of-war ready for attack.

But retribution must be near; for he knew that Bernardini had sent warning followed by immediate
details of the revolt, by secret messengers, concealed in trading-ships to the Venetian fleet
off the African coast, and strong help must be at hand. To risk failure by a premature attack,
for want of patience to endure a temporary disgrace, would be unmanly weakness. The Madonna
be praised, the Chamberlain of the Queen was a man of resource; the people of the cities were
devoted to her, and the end might be nearer than seemed possible.

The Admiral was impatient for the conference with Bernardini who had implored him to come without
delay.

"At all hazards we shall hold the city-gate," the Chamberlain had written in the first hours
of that dark dawn. "With citadel and port in command of the traitors and the Queen in their
keeping, this post may have no importance in their eyes. But our help must come from without."

And now the little band of faithful knights were coming in sight of the city-walls--massive
and splendid--a monument to the Lusignans.

"For our Queen and Cyprus!" the Admiral said solemnly, his hand upon his sword.

The tone of the utterance made it a command.

"So help us God our Seigneur, and San Giovanni!" the knights answered him in a breath, nerving
themselves to attack and success: but they came silently and with no sounds of battle--by order
of their chief--not knowing whether to expect welcome or conflict, or whether secrecy might
be well.

At the tramp of their horses' feet the warden had advanced to the grille of reconnoitre and
withdrawn the small stone shutter for inspection; his head appeared behind the bars, but he
wore no tell-tale colors:

"Open! in the name of the Queen! to Her Majesty's faithful vassals!"

The Admiral spoke low--for secrecy might be the very discretion of valor: but fearlessly, for
the words were a signal, and every knight stood ready.

"Who challengeth? Speak low."

Was it the word of caution, or a ruse de guerre?

"One of Nikosia."

The Admiral gave the password which Bernardini had sent in that hasty note, and listened, trembling
as a brave man may with impatience to be within and at his post of duty, while one by one the
bolts were withdrawn, the portcullises were raised, and the signal to advance was given--quite
silently: the finger of the guard who had been detailed to accompany them, was upon his lips.

Not until he had conducted them beyond, into the city, did he speak: "We know not what echoes
there may be within those walls," he said, pointing back to the ponderous gateway with its
many vaulted passages.

Then impatient, the Admiral asked for news.

"Your Excellencies are expected: the citizens await you:" it was said in a tone that meant
more than courtesy: Mutio di Costanzo scanned him narrowly.

"From whom dost hold thy orders?" he asked.

"From the Signor Bernardini, commander of the city," the man answered readily.

"Then speak."

"The Signor Bernardini hath this night rescued our infant Prince from the galley of Naples----"
He supplemented the statement with an angry oath coupled with Rizzo's name. "We know not where
our Signor hath hidden him."

"And the Queen?"

The guard shook his head.

"The Signor hath waited for help to come: it is said that her rescue will be this day. In the
Palazzo Reale the guard hath been trebled for her defense, and every man would give his life
for the Queen."

"Is there more?"

"Aye, your Excellency: rumor hath it that that devil of a Rizzo hath forced Her Majesty to
give him letters of surrender for every fortress of Cyprus, and that to-day he is gone, with
other traitors, to receive the keys of all our citadels. Panagia mou! he is capable of every
treachery! If he were not within----" He indicated the fortress with a scowl of hatred, then
made a motion which seemed to include the entire city and plant the people, resolute, before
the windows of the Queen.

"And the Governor of Famagosta?"

"That traitor Tripoli is in the train of the scoundrel Rizzo, both faring forth for other treacheries,
thinking us safe enough to leave, with those spies of Naples on guard." His sputtering curses
choked further speech.

"It shall be now," said Mutio di Costanzo: "conduct us to the Signor Bernardini"--yet wondering
at the silence of the streets as he passed.

"Your Excellency," said the guard once more, in answer to his question, "it is the order of
the Bernardini who hath commanded quiet and hath promised, on his life, to restore the Queen
to her people."

The hasty conference in the Palazzo Reale, developed the fact that the citizens of Famagosta,
too furious for any considerations of expediency, had been with difficulty restrained from
storming the Citadel and demanding the Queen's instant release: and now that any trained force,
however small, was upon their side, the critical moment had come. Men, women and children flocked
into the deserted streets and eagerly followed the cavalcade of Knights to the Piazza San Nicolò,
where the crowd was increasing every moment; and when Bernardini and Mutio di Costanzo appeared
among them, they were greeted with cheers and vivas.

"Regina!"

"Madonna Nostra Reale!"

"Regina!"

"Subito! Subito!"

The cries startled the silence of the streets, and further restraint was impossible.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Regina! Madonna Nostra Reale! Subito!"

The city rang with their shouts--the voice of a multitude magnificent in righteous emotion--from
the gruff tones of the men of the populace hoarse with anger, to the strident cries and sobs
of the women and the high treble of little children; and clear and calm throughout the chorus,
the clarion-notes of command.

The mighty sound penetrated to the depths of the Citadel, waking the Cyprian force from its
stupor of despondency, rousing the dormant manhood within them.

It reached the chamber of the captive Queen, who had known no thrill of hope since that night
of horror.

"My God! my God!" she cried, with streaming eyes. "I thank thee!--Madonna mia Sanctissima!
My people are calling for me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"In the name of Her Majesty!"

"Surrender command to the Admiral of Cyprus!"

To no mighty force could those strong bars have been more swiftly withdrawn; nor was there
need of contest to displace the trembling guards of Naples, as the men of Cyprus within the
fort hastened to obey the mandate from without, saluting as the massive gates creaked upon
their hinges and protesting that further haste had been impossible.

"Let every traitor crave mercy!" the Admiral thundered as he crossed the drawbridge with his
cavalcade: "and on your knees crave pardon of your outraged Queen as we descend."

"Signori!"--to the Knights of the Golden Spurs--"await us here--none less loyal may stand on
guard."

       *       *       *       *       *

To-day the entire armament of the fortress was less than of wont; for Rizzo and Tripoli, secure
in their victory and confident that there would be no uprising since none had yet been attempted,
had not hesitated to take a considerable following with them to secure the surrender of the
other citadels of Cyprus "by order of the Queen." For was not Rizzo the happy holder of many
pretty bits of parchment signed by the hand of "Caterina Regina" herself and attested by the
royal signet of Cyprus--which to disobey was treason? It would be a pretty farce to insist
upon the potency of that trembling signature wrested from the captive Queen when she had worn
no semblance of power--a farce to which the Neapolitan schemer was fully equal.

None but a man who knew the famous stronghold of Famagosta so intimately as did the Admiral
of Cyprus could thus quickly have made sure that the surrender was complete and that no secret
reserves of men and arms were kept back for further intrigues. To swear in those who would
stand for Cyprus--to banish the mercenaries of Naples and all who were in sympathy with them
to the dungeons below--to make sure of the color of the guards at port and passage--was not
so much longer in the doing than in the telling.

And yet, to the young Queen and Margherita the moments had seemed hours: they stood close together;
straining every faculty to interpret the meaning of the commotion below, within the fortress,
alternating between hope and fear as, at intervals, the cries of the people reached them from
the piazza, indistinct and broken by the thickness of the walls; now and again a fierce imprecation
rising above the tumult--yet surely there were tones of loyalty--voices calling for "Caterina
Regina!"

Caterina's strength was well-nigh spent--she had suffered so much; she caught the hand of Margherita
in agitation as the tramp of footsteps echoed through the corridor nearing the door of her
chamber, and Margherita laid her other hand on Caterina's with an almost maternal tenderness,
from the great pity within her.

"Beloved Lady!" she cried reassuringly; "they bring us glad tidings."

For she read it in their faces as the Bernardini and Mutio di Costanzo knelt in the low doorway
to offer their homage.

But the young Queen seemed to tremble between life and death as she stretched forth her arms
to them with a low wail that almost unnerved those strong faithful men.

"My Boy! My Boy!--your Prince!"

How may joy immeasurable be told in an instant's space, and one schooled to agony not die from
the swift change to such rapture of content!

For the Bernardini had answered her: "Safe in the Palazzo Reale: and the people are clamoring
for their Queen!"

And because the Dama Margherita had seen the great shining light in his eyes her heart went
out to him, and she knew that the safety of the Royal infant meant a tale of loyalty and danger
that Aluisi Bernardini would never tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

But at last the Admiral and the Bernardini led Caterina forth into the piazza, pale and calm--the
glory of a great gladness in her eyes--the suffering which had left deep traces in her face
disguised by the exaltation of the moment so that she scarcely seemed less radiant than when
she had last stood there on the day of the coronation fête with her child in her arms--as any
woman of the people might have done, the tender, baby-cheek pressed close to hers.

Some of them remembered it as they fell on their knees around her, kissing her hands, offering
her homage--reparation--sobbing out their devotion:

"Regina! Madonna Nostra Reale! Regina! Regina! May the Holy Mother bless her and our little King!"

She was not a thing of State and jewels, cold and distant like the proud Queen Elenà, but a
tender human mother, fair and young, and her heart had been all but broken when that wicked
Chief of Council had stolen away the child!--the people might gather close about her and weep
and rejoice with her.

"Madonna Nostra Reale!"

The air was still ringing with the loyal shouts of the multitude when Vettore Soranzo with
that eagerly expected Venetian fleet, weighed anchor in the port of Famagosta and with his
men streamed through the unresisting gates of the Fortress into the Piazza San Nicolò, where
the young Queen still stood radiant.

       *       *       *       *       *

With the holy calm of night peace brooded over the distracted city and the Cyprian stars looked
down on the old, sweet story of mother and child--as closely clasped beneath the gilded roof
of the royal palace as under the thatch of a peasant shed--smiling, forgetful of the days of
anguish that had parted them.

XXV

The Venetian Admiral Mocenigo, god-father to the little prince, had followed close upon the
coming of Vettore Soranzo, and they had lost no time in examining into the causes of the difficulties
and in fixing the responsibility for the treachery where it belonged: disloyal officers were
replaced by men in sympathy with the government, men of weight and character were sought for
to fill the vacancies in the Council of the Realm, and it seemed that days of sunshine were
dawning for Caterina, guarded by the affection of her people and the invincible arm of Venice.

These Venetian nobles would have made short work in meting out justice to those chiefs who
had been the instigators of the conspiracy, but as yet they had eluded the search; though it
was rumored that Saplana, the Turkish commander of the Fortress of Famagosta, with his nephew
Almerico to whom the conspirators would assign control of the castle of Cerines,--had been
in hiding in the palace of the Archbishop. And a tale was brought to Bernardini by a group
of agitated peasants from the hamlet of Varoschia, that at early dawn a man fully armed, with
the semblance of Rizzo--"not an apparition, Signore sa--but how could one know the face of
him with his vizor down?--was riding like the wind to Famagosta, and with him a multitude of
horsemen, coming very silently. We saw them from the vineyards high up on the hillside. And
then--quite suddenly--we looked and they were gone--they came no more--by San Nicolò and the
Holy Madonna, it is true!"

Significant gestures gave a certain mysterious color to the peasant's tale; but whatever its
truth, it was actually known that Rizzo and other of the conspirators had been seen in the
neighborhood of Nikosia; and the whereabouts of these intriguers was a topic of absorbing interest,
for it was felt that the sunshine would be clearer when Rizzo with his accomplices should have
been found and made to suffer the full penalty of their crime.

Rizzo and Fabrici had been absent at the time of the uprising of the citizens of Famagosta,
and the wolf-like courage of the Chief-of-Council was on the wane: for the letters of the Queen
had not proved the passport he had expected toward the surrender of the Cyprian strongholds
to a traitor: since more than one of the Commanders had been found so staunch in loyalty as
to question the validity of the royal signature.

When all had gone so well at first, these failures were exasperating to a man of Rizzo's temper--the
more so that the little Queen had refused to prepare another letter of dismissal required of
her; and Rizzo, the stronger in wrath and insolence because his faith in his star was somewhat
less, had set forth himself to enforce the investiture of Almerico as Commander of Cerines--the
castle to which he had been refused admittance on the morning of the uprising in Famagosta.

       *       *       *       *       *

Venice, meanwhile, with her faculty for establishing confidence and settling all things in
order, having brought back the smiles of the Court, had suggested the wisdom of relieving the
strain and tickling the fancy of the people by some pageant. There was to be a grand review
of the troops in the Piazza on the esplanade, in the presence of the Queen and the infant Prince,
at which the presentation by Her Majesty to the Admiral Mocenigo of a golden shield, magnificently
wrought with the arms of Cyprus, would diplomatically suggest the important röle that Venice
had played in the re-establishment of the Government.

Dama Ecciva was in her element again, now that something had happened to scatter the unendurable
dulness, and each day brought some new matter for discussion.

"Hast heard, Eloisà, how that this new Council to Her Majesty hath captured the Secretary of
His Reverence the Archbishop? and they thought to hang him for his master's treachery and his
own; and then, because he promised to confess to save his life, he is in the Castle instead.
And there were revelations!--and intrigues!--verily a Reverendissimo!"

"Name him not to me; I have no patience!"

"Thou hast never patience when I bring thee news: and it is tiresome of thee, for one must
talk, or die of ennui in this court!"

"Then let it be of something better." Eloisà answered in a tone which showed her distaste of
the subject.

"Choose thou--since one can never know thy whim. Shall it be of that famous Saplana who runneth
away to put himself in hiding;--for fear--verily for fear--the Commander of Famagosta! afraid
to die like a man! A comedy!--one might laugh if it were less craven."

"One knoweth not if he be in hiding, since he is not found; he may be a traitor, yet not a
coward too."

"Yes, one knoweth, bella Contarini mia: did I not promise thee news? And thou wilt never guess it."

"It was our Admiral Mocenigo who found him?" Eloisà asked eagerly.

"Nay; not 'our Admiral Mocenigo';" the other answered lingering on the name with a fine mimicry
of her tone; "not thine nor mine. Thou hast a foolish way with thee of mine and thine, as if
all that came from Venice were held close to thy little heart.--How goes it with thy handsome
Signor Bernardini?"

"Oh, Ecciva! The Chamberlain of the Queen! how darest thou? Thou art over free with thy foolish
speech."

"Nay, little timid maid; it is thou who art foolish not to see--not to see----. Ah, well, he
is but a man for all he is Venetian; and thou--thou art a child and hast no eyes."

"What meanest thou, Ecciva? Nay, thou shalt tell me." She caught her companion's hand as Ecciva
made a feint of turning away.

"So----; now there is something found that doth not tax thy fickle patience, since we speak
of the splendid Bernardini! Thou hast ever thine adoration ready for a Venetian."

Eloisà flushed indignantly, but she answered staunchly: "Not only I--but every one who loveth
what is noble. Thou knowest, Ecciva, the Court is full of his praises."

"Aye, is it, my little one? As well it may be! Then what harm that I should sing them too?
Verily, I think he is noble beyond all others;" her taunting tone became suddenly earnest.
"And this I came to tell thee."

"This is not news," the other answered coldly, having found it difficult to keep the pace of
Ecciva's changing admirations, for the Cyprian maiden was easily captured by any demonstration
of power; "and thou camest to bring me news."

"Hast ever thought that the Chamberlain of the Queen would woo a bride?" Dama Ecciva asked
lightly, but unconsciously opening and closing her slender henna-stained fingers, straining
them into the soft palms with strenuous motions, while she waited for her companion's reply.

"If I knew his secrets or dreamed them, I would not tell thee--being his friend," Eloisà exclaimed
indignantly, "such talk ill befitteth the dignity of Her Majesty's maids of honor. What is
thy news?"

Ecciva came closer and laid one hand on Eloisà's wrist, tightening her clasp while she spoke
in low, slow, insinuating tones--holding her with her strange gaze.

"This is no news to thee--that I--that I----? Tell me Eloisà, dost thou not see?"

The Venetian turned from her uneasily.

"Thou hast shewn me nothing with all thy talk of the Bernardini;" she spoke the name unwillingly,
Ecciva seemed to force her to continue the theme, and it was with difficulty that she could
withdraw her hand from the Grecian maiden's sinuous clasp. "Let us talk no more; for thou hast
no news of real matter."

"Not of the Bernardini, since thou wilt not hear it. But how if I knew of a bride for him?"

"I think he would not ask of whom thou speakest!" Eloisà tried to laugh and shake off the spell.
"I will listen no more, Ecciva."

But the other paid no heed. "How if I knew of a bride for him?" she repeated; "of a most ancient
house of Cyprus; noble enough to mate with him--for out of it came one of the queens of the
land----. And if--and if she would not say him nay!--How then, Carina? For thou, 'being his
friend,' wouldst wish to see him win such favor----?"

"It is not the Dama Margherita de Iblin," Eloisà asked with sudden eager interest.

"The Lady Margherita!" Ecciva echoed with a scornful toss of her head. "Doth one seek a bride
no longer young when one is a man like that? Nor--nor beautiful?--She is not beautiful!"

"She is more rare than beautiful," Eloisà retorted, piqued. "For she is noble, like the Signor
Bernardini: and her face is like her soul."

"They should not trust their secrets to so young a maid!" the Lady Ecciva cried tauntingly.

She had suddenly flushed and grown pale again. Then a new thought came to her. "But she also
is a Dama di Maridaggio--she also. Thou mightest tell that for a bit of gossip to the Queen,
who, perchance, hath influence with the Signor Bernardini." She had laid her hand again on
Eloisà's, with an insistent touch.

"Why dost thou say, she also?"

"That is for thy puzzle--to amuse thee, carinissima; for verily thy brain is dull. It is no
wonder with the gravity of this court! But happily to-morrow--thou shalt see to-morrow how
the people shout to him, for Cyprus doth owe him honor--and Her Majesty more than life. It
is the Bernardini who hath done it all--more than the Soranzo, or the Mocenigo--more even than
our great Admiral of Cyprus. Thou shalt see!"

Eloisà fell easily into praises of her hero, and her tongue was unsealed. "To go at night,
with only a poor fishing-skiff and a handful of men, to steal back the little king from the
galley of Naples--it was not easy! But how should one think of peril when the Prince was in
danger?--They are both like that--he and she."

"All knights are like that, or they would be craven: that was no honor to him. But what woman
went with him from the palace? I watched them going; it was a night like some great poem!"

"That was our dear Lady of the Bernardini; lest the Prince should be strange without some loving
face about him, and none can smile him into quiet, as she with her gracious ways; and they
feared a sound, for the galley lay close under the fortress. So quietly they went, along the
shore, lingering where the nets are thrown by the shallows, to take the galley by surprise--the
Lady of the Bernardini shrouded in the mantle of a fisher-woman."

"And after?--When they had found him? For it was not told where they hid the child--or I heard
it not."

"Yes--now it may be known; thanks be to our Mater Sanctissima!" Eloisà answered devoutly. "They
floated about in the fishing skiff until they reached the private galley of the Signor Bernardini--so
far around the coast that it would be safe for the Prince. And of the peril, the Lady of the
Bernardini had no thought. The galley of His Excellency was dark and with no sign of action,
yet it had been manned for a cruise the night before the treason--the poor Signor Bembo was
to have gone therein"--her voice faltered and they both crossed themselves, the horror of that
night was still so new.

"The crew were hidden within it," she continued after a moment's pause, "and if there had been
pursuit, it would have started swiftly for Venice, to put the Prince in safety."

"How came this tale to thee?" Dama Ecciva asked with a sudden twinge of jealousy--"we both
being of the court?"

"Nay, nay, Ecciva," Eloisà pleaded; "we both are here to do our duty, and in time of peril--thou
knowest well--one may not ask counsel on the house-tops; and this was for life or death. How
might they hope to surprise the galley of Naples, if it has been told to all the Court?"

"Thou, then?"

"Listen, Ecciva! Since it is past, thou shalt see how they are noble, this Mother and her son!
They left with me that night a message for the dear Queen whom they might not reach with speech,
to spare her greater anguish, if they came not back. For, oh my God, how she hath suffered!"

"It is yet more a poem," Ecciva exclaimed, stirred by the hope of further romance, and already
half ashamed that she had shown her momentary feeling of jealousy. "The message--tell it!"

"'If we come not back, thou wilt tell our beloved Lady that we have sought to wrest the child
from the galley of Naples; for rumor hath it that he is hidden there. And if he be there, we
will bring him, or give our lives to save him. Tell her our galley waiteth far, to take the
Prince to Venice if, from pursuit, there should be need to fly.'

"But--listen Ecciva--they said, 'if we come not again, and our galley should be found waiting
on the coast, then tell her that our lives were little to express our love; and she shall not
mourn that we have given them for her and for her child.'--Oh, Ecciva!" she ended with a long
sigh of adoring appreciation.

Ecciva broke the tension with her exclamation: "No, Contarini mia, all knights are not like
that: I said it but to tease thee. Tell it to the Dama Margherita with a face like that, and
she will make it a second 'Kypria,' for she hath, verily the gift. I have not such a tale of
knighthood to tell thee: yet, if thou carest for my tidings they would make a canto for the
new Kypria of the Dama Margherita, in contrast to thine. And first of the traitor Saplana--of
whom there is news."

Eloisà greeted the tidings with an exclamation of relief.

"He--and the precious group of noble villains--or of villain nobles--one's tongue takes twist
in talking trash--the more when it is true; a precious group of traitors, all on the wild seashore--how
the Dama Margherita would bring out the booming of the waves! These doughty villains fleeing
because, forsooth, they feared the fleet of Venice!--tossing their reins on the necks of the
steeds that brought them, and leaving them to wander at their will. A little gold and their
arms and bucklers in the fishing skiff that brought them to the galley of the noble Ferdinand--the
goodly King of Naples,--his well-beloved son, Alfonso, wore not for long the title of the 'Prince
of Galilee!'--Is it a pretty tale for the poem of the Margherita? The tale of the fleeing villains!"

"But who went with the Commander?--Which others?"

"There was the nephew, Almerico--much in temper because thy noble uncle the Contarini would
not yield up to his traitorous care the Castle of Cerines for the signature forced from the
Queen. There was Fabrici--the very Reverend, the Primate of Cyprus. And then--and then--not
last, but first, and deepest and darkest traitor of them all--the very darkest villain of them
all--there was Rizzo!"

"Ecciva! Not Rizzo!--the land is free of him!"

"Aye, Rizzo, child. Did I tell thee I had news? And for their absences may Heaven be praised!--though,
truly, they have deserved worse."

"They have deserved death," said Eloisà solemnly: "death between the columns of the Piazzetta--death
and confiscation."

"So, my Venetian, thou never wilt remember that we are Cyprians! The drama of confiscation
will surely follow upon their deserts, and there will be fiefs the more for their Cyprian betters.
But as for death--'death between the columns'--I could almost be glad that Rizzo hath escaped.
How shall one not admire the masterful scheming of the man, and the insolence and power of
him?--he is fairly great in wile.--Have I not told thee news enough, and of a quality to make
thy hair stand on end--the comely hair of a most decorous young Venetian maid?--and thou hast
never a word of admiration. Verily, thou art tiresome!"

"It is so terrible, Ecciva: I cannot jest, nor gloat on it for news."

"There, there, sweet child!" Ecciva had slipped easily back into her old, mocking, taunting
way--"go look out thy tire for the morrow and try on thy jewels, for the pageant will be fine:
and, do thy best, I shall outshine thee--thee and the Dama Margherita! One pageant in six months
of woe--it is not over much."

XXVI

The pageant had been brilliant, as one may read in the chronicles of the time.

Even the Queen of the Adriatic, in all her pride, could offer little to surpass the splendor
of this great esplanade by the sea where the review had been held. The pavement of costly mosaic
stretched along the coast, guarded by the lofty tower which jutted out upon the sea; while
the other side of this unusual piazza was dominated by the famous Citadel which climbed the
steep acclivity with intricate windings of crenellated walls, dotted with sentry towers where
banners were floating. In that clear atmosphere distance was not appreciable, and the castellated
slopes seemed to lead up to the highest peak of the Troödos, whose snow-crowned summit flashed
its crystal against the deep blue of the Cyprian sky.

The massive walls of modern Famagosta skirted the esplanade, and above their mighty bulwark
rose the domes and pinnacles of her palaces and churches--a city of delight. There were strange
monuments breaking the sky-line; there were statues and fountains gleaming in the sunlight;
there were hedges of rose and myrtle outlining the terraced gardens on the hill-slopes, where
rioted all manner of fruits and bloom: back of them the vineyards of Varoschia--lemons, burning
like topaz against the dark thatch of their glossy leaves, and near them the thin gray of the
olive-trees, outlining with pale shadow the forests that spread to the mountains.

Vast vases of stone looked down from the heights in grotesque shapes--serpents coiled, thrusting
out their tongues tipped with rubies, with glaring emeralds for eyes: and below them, deep
cut in the living rock and blazoned so that one might read them from afar, the arms of the
kingdom--as if sacred pythons, terrible and fierce, kept watch above the harbor for the honor
of the realm.

And far off, against that wonderful mountain background, a colossal marble lion stood guard
over the ruins of the city that slept upon the coast below--with demoniac, fiery eyes of flashing
jewels, striking terror to the souls of mariners who might have wandered with sacrilegious
feet among those crumbling tombs and temples in search of buried treasure.

For this buried city on the coast was the ancient city of Salamis, and famed for her magnificence--the
Famagosta Vecchia which had furnished many a stately column and intricately wrought carving
to enrich the modern city to which Janus had transferred the capital of his kingdom. Half-buried
fragments of palaces and tombs and temples reached far along the coast, giving the touch of
pathos and historic interest: and about them swept the broken circles of the splendid aqueduct
which, in the days long past, had gathered the waters of the mountain streams to furnish the
countless fountains and cisterns of Salamis. Great palms had sprung up in the fissures of the
massive, grass-grown arches, and vines trailed draperies of beauty over their decay--and so
they stood, a monument to the past, challenging the dwellers of the modern city to a labor
so needful for the public weal.

The port was gay with trading ships and colors of many lands; but Mutio di Costanzo studied
it with frowning brows, noting only the absence of his own galleys of Cyprus, which lay, unmanned
in the dock-yards by order of King Janus the Second! And before them, where he turned his gaze,
still frowning, on the silver of the sea rode the galleys of the fleet of Venice--decked with
the banners of San Marco and of Cyprus.

Caterina, under her canopy, with all her court about her in fullest state, had received the
homage of the people, as she passed her forces in review, her cheek tingling with honest pleasure
at their enthusiastic greeting. The little Prince had been beside her, crowing his delight
at the music, the motion, the noise, the color, in most unkingly fashion, quite unconscious
that the storied jewel of his realm--the great ruby that Peter the Valiant had received as
the tribute of a conquered Eastern city, glittering in the lace of his infant-cap, by way of
royal insignia--demanded a regal bearing.

The presentation to the Mocenigo of the golden shield, richly inlaid with the arms of Cyprus,
had made a pretty scenic episode, quite worthy of dramatic Venice.

For Mutio di Costanzo also, and for the Bernardini, there had been demonstrations, as Dama
Ecciva had foretold: but the Lady Margherita de Iblin had noticed with uneasiness, that whereas
it was a time when the people, high and low, should have assembled to testify their loyalty
and affection, the crowd was chiefly composed of burghers and peasants from the hamlets in
city neighborhoods, and that many of the old Cyprian nobles with their tenantry were conspicuously
absent. And since the death of Janus, some of those who had formerly been in attendance at
court, had rarely shown themselves there.

Dama Margherita spoke of this afterwards to the Admiral, for he had asked for some private
conversation with her in her boudoir, when the ceremonies should be over.

"What mean these absences?" she asked, when they had bemoaned the situation.

"Venice is feared, not loved," he answered her.

But she was unwilling to confess that she understood him, having a pride in her land and love
for her Queen.

"Pardon, your Excellency," she said, "we were speaking of Cyprus."

He passed the interruption by as unworthy, being greatly in earnest.

"And the Queen--a very lovely young woman--is a mere figurehead--a pawn to be moved at the
discretion of the higher powers."

"Then, my Lord, it should be seen to that she hath a Council competent to advise," the Lady
Margherita retorted with ready indignation, "instead of a horde of traitors."

Her voice took on a higher key in her excitement, and the Admiral laid his hand lightly on
her arm to quiet her.

"Dear Dama Margherita," he said, "we have been in conference with His Excellency the Signor
Mocenigo--a very remarkable mind--and the Provveditore Vettore Soranzo; and the vacancies in
Her Majesty's Council have been filled with men, whom may Heaven keep more loyal!--But why
did not the Counts of the Chamber rise up in eager demonstration of interest to put their best
men in those vacant seats? And why--are we quite safe to discuss it here?--why did we--having
her interests at heart--not dare to ask the great nobles whom we wished to reach, to take those
places?"

"It is because of Janus, who hath been heedless and unfair?" she asked reflecting. "For verily
the people love the Queen."

"Let us not deceive ourselves out of our very loyalty. The citizens and the nearer peasants
hold her in love and reverence: but those of the larger casals and fiefs--the ancient nobles,
have the power; and few of these are in her court. I would it were otherwise."

"It is something, your Excellency, to have won the love of the simpler folk as no Queen of
this land hath ever done before," the Lady Margherita said staunchly.

"It is something, but not all," he answered; "the nobles are as much to be taken into consideration
as the poorer classes. It is not all," he repeated with emphasis. "One may win from sympathy--but
one must rule a kingdom by power. And the Queen--God help her!--is a charming child."

"My Lord!"

"A charming child--with a heart developed and matured like a saint; but with a mind untrained
to intrigue, unsuspicious of jealousies, unconscious of any injustice wrought by her husband,
not apt to comprehend, perhaps, any grievance of the nobles----"

"May we not help her?" Dama Margherita interrupted eagerly. "She would give back the fiefs
if she knew that they had been misplaced--that any right had been violated. And now--after
these confiscations----"

"Aye, there are more lands to satisfy their demands, it is true. But in their pride they might
refuse--let her not wonder at it, nor cease from her courtesies. The nobles are rather sullen
than overt in their discontent. They do not want Venetian galleys in their waters--though they
must welcome them--nor to do homage to a Venetian for the gift of their own lands. And the
restoration is less simple than was the confiscation. For temporary lords have been created
and these remain to be reckoned with--even if the will were there."

"I am sure, your Excellency, that the will would not be lacking if this matter were understood;
for Her Majesty is fair and generous, and eager to do all her duty by her people. It is of
them, and never of herself, that her heart is full."

The old Knight looked at her with kindling eyes as he raised her hand to his lips with the
gallantry of the time; yet retaining it in his own and petting it in fatherly fashion, for
she had been his daughter's friend from childhood.

"Dear Margherita," he said with emotion, "it is well for our dear Queen that thou art so loyal;
and well for our distraught land that thou shouldst be near her." He kissed her hand again
as he released it. "I spoke but to try thee, my child. If there are those near her whom we
may not trust--it is not thou: I know that a de Iblin could not be disloyal."

"To try me--my Lord----! Me!"

She had drawn away from him, wounded and disdainful, her voice thrilling with anger.

But he answered her quietly and sorrowfully. "Could I risk any hurt to thee, cara Dama Margherita,
if duty of plainest speech were not imperative? I trust thee wholly--how else could I speak
thus with thee? I have never for a moment doubted thee; yet one might doubt one's own loyalty
in this court of Cyprus--where, it is told me, there is a most subtle intriguer who seeketh
to do thee harm."

"So it be not those whose esteem is dear to me," she answered wearily, still smarting from
the hurt, "what matters it?"

"My child," he pleaded, "if it had not been needful, I should not have told thee; nor told
thee thus, but that I wished to see if any suspicion of this had dawned upon thee. But thou,
like the Queen, art too noble to soil thy soul with distrust. Yet, bethink thee, for her sake,
if there be any within this circle--however fairly spoken--who may be intriguing against thee,
yet seeking in secret to disaffect the court in favor of some other claimant."

"Who brought your Excellency this tale?" she asked; "since all may not be trusted?" Her tone
was a challenge, and she moved towards the door to close the interview, but the Admiral would
not follow.

"Put by thine indignation, Margherita," he answered patiently, "for I have told thee as I would
tell my own Alicia, if danger threatened--if somewhat overclumsily it seemeth to a maiden's
fancy. It was told me, in confidence, by one of judgment and most loyal honor, whose name I
may not reveal, and who besought me that I should warn thee--thee, Margherita--who knew thy
loyalty staunch as his own."

A slow, pale flush grew on the girl's proud cheek as she listened and her eyes took on a strange
light.

"What matters it, my Lord," she said again, "to me, if I have thy trust and--and--that of all
men of honor! Forgive the temper of my house!" She stretched out her hand to him.

"So thou but know when to curb it," he answered smiling, "it is thy strength and our pride.
And now--as to this other?"

"My Lord, I do not know"--but she paused suddenly.

"It is well," he said watching her, "for I may name no names--but thou art on thy guard. She
was named to me as very fair--subtle--charming--of an ancient house of Cyprus--we have named
no names. Let no confidences escape thee in her presence: but we have no knowledge yet of any
traitorous intent that might excuse her dismissal from Court; and if it be but petty, personal
jealousy"--again Margherita had flushed unwontedly--"for a mere jealousy, one may not insult
a noble, ancient house. It is not known if her sympathy be with Naples, or with Carlotta."

"Your Excellency shall know if aught be discovered that should be told," Margherita promised.
"But the matter is difficult."

"As to Her Majesty," the Admiral continued lowering his voice still further, "it hath been
found needful to guard her interests, and the Signor Bernardini hath been named to the Council--a
most excellent gentleman--if he were not of Venice. I would have had another of our Cyprian
nobles, because of this jealousy of Venice. But they have kept themselves so much from court
that we have not seen their color; and we dare not trifle with them, for the time is critical."

"Why not thou--Eccellentissimo?"

"Nay; I may keep a wider outlook on the interests of the kingdom without the Council. The city
of Nikosia shall stand for her; the trading interests are to watch; the fleets must be re-manned;
these intrigues must be thwarted. I outside the court, and thou within, very closely within--as
near to the heart of the Queen as she will let thee--we shall work and help her, for her task
is not light. She swore her oath of office to me, and I to her gave mine, as solemnly--to help
her with my life. It is a heavy load for such tender hands to lift:--a question if one may
conquer wile with innocency--yet the strife is noble."

"What may be done to help her?" Dama Margherita questioned, heavy-hearted. "What is my part?
It is not only the scandal of watching against intrigue."

"That is no scandal to loyal service: and such her very trust and goodness do demand. But there
is more: out of thy fuller knowledge of the Cyprian temper--thy comprehension of their grievances--thy
loyal Cyprian pride--thy staunchness to the House of Lusignan--make thyself charming to these
great Cyprian nobles; help the Queen to see the need of their conciliation, and stoop a little
from thy loftiness to win it for them. To two such women, the impossible is easy. I leave thee
now."

"Is there no more?" she asked.

"Nay:--or it is a trifle. If they have found the court a little over-dull, of late, blame them
not over-much: the need for gayety and splendor is in their blood--more than in ours of Sicily--more
even than in that of Venice--which hath greater gravity. I have spoken with Madama di Thénouris
and the Lady of the Bernardini; but Madama di Thénouris hath better understanding of the Cyprian
temper, its need of excitement--half barbaric--its impatience with a tone of gloom; the tourneys,
the tennis, the hunt, all that bringeth life--let the court be charming again with jewels and
color. Too great gravity is not wise."

"Yet to-day, your Excellency, if there were no lack of brilliancy--how many were not there to see!"

"It is the beginning only," he said; "let it not be the end. Great issues have been changed
by such trifles."

"Must there be no more than trifles?" she asked, detaining him, dissatisfied.

He looked at her, uncertain whether it were wise to speak further.

"Tell no one that they are trifles: but listen," he said. "It will take strength, and patience,
and wisdom and cunning and grace to rule this people. Shall we ask all this of any woman?"
He dwelt upon the words with weighty enunciation.

"Or of any man?" she answered, half-mocking at the demand. "And if he were really a man, and
not a god--and if one might choose one's King----"

He shook his head slowly in response. "Our paragon might not be found in the House of Lusignan,
perchance. But surely he would not be a Louis of Savoy--nor a Ferdinand of Naples--no more
than a Carlotta. Nor any Cyprian noble who hath eyes upon the Crown."

"Not this, also!" she cried, startled; "not this!"

"So rumor hath it; but none is strong enough. It frets me not. I have but told thee since thou
art on guard."

"Is there a remedy?" she asked despondent.

"It is not hopeless. The Ministers must rule the land. We must choose our men and bide our
time. Our Queen, by her grace, shall win the people's hearts: and all may be well."

"And the little Prince--under her training?--For she will teach him love and justice. She hath
vowed him to the service of his land."

"Aye, he is our hope. We must guard her kingdom for him."

Then suddenly his face flamed with wrath. "This Council of the Realm were arch-traitors!" he
said fiercely, "and to think that they escaped death!--Wresting power for their own ends--taking
no concern for Cyprian interests--they 'forget' the tribute which assures to Cyprus the support
of our Suzerain, and wait for Venice to come with careful inquiry to set such failures right!
But what cared they whether the provisions of a solemn treaty were kept or broken? They had
no thought of honor--they wanted power to overturn the throne--not to uphold it.--The masterful
meanness of such creatures is beyond comprehension!"

"It doth unman me!" he said apologetically to Margherita, after this unusual outburst, for
Mutio di Costanzo was a man of few words; then,

"Madama di Thénouris is of our private council," he added, to her immense relief, as he left her.

XXVII

It was the Bernardini whose swift thought had sent the first faithful account of the revolt
of the Council of the Realm to the Signoria--his ingenuity which had secured the delivery of
this true statement before the false story under the signature forced from Caterina had reached
Venice--his prowess that had generaled the uprising of the citizens for the Queen's release--his
devotion that had rescued the infant Prince from captivity--his foresight that had sent warning
to the Admiral Mocenigo before he could be summoned from Venice to the rescue. Such honors
as might be decreed to a fidelity beyond reward had come upon Aluisi Bernardini from the Republic,
apt in recognition: and the undying gratitude of the Queen was already his.

"What shall I give thee, beloved Cousin?" the Queen had asked him. "Wilt thou be a noble of
Cyprus?"

"Dear Lady," he answered, "I want but thy favor. Doth it not suffice me that I am a noble of
Venice?"

"Nay--but to prove how thou art in my grace--with rich fiefs and holdings in this land for
which thou hast spent thy service right royally."

"He doth not spend 'right royally' who seeketh reward," he answered, smiling down upon her,
as he stood before her.

Caterina answered him by quoting the Cyprian proverb, "Assai dimanda che fidelmente serve."
(Who hath faithfully served hath made a large demand.)

But he shook his head, still smiling.

"Other than I have done, what true knight would do?" he protested. "There could be no question
of reward between us--thou being royal Lady of our Casa Cornaro, and I sworn to thy faithful
service--my cousin and Queen. But, if thou wilt grant thy favor----"

He had grown suddenly grave.

"Nay, Aluisi, how may I grant what thou already hast?"

"I thank thee, fair Cousin. See how I trust thy favor to bring thee warning--being so much
thine elder--dealing so much more with men than thou--being now of thy Council of the Realm----"

"Doth it need so many words from thee to me to excuse a counsel?--from thee, who gavest me
back my child!"

She held out both hands to him impulsively, as a daughter to a father, her beautiful face radiant
with gratitude and affection.

He closed the fair hands for a moment in his own, very tenderly. "I should have envied any,"
he said, "whose fortune it had been to do this thing for thee. My star hath favored me. Heaven
keep our little Prince to bless his realm of Cyprus!"

After a moment's silence, Caterina spoke playfully, to recall him to his theme. "Was it for
this fervent vow of loyalty that thou didst crave my grace?"

His face deepened to a seriousness that was almost compassionate.

"Thou knowest that I would fain help thee: thy people would verily spend themselves for thee--thou
hast won their hearts. But, among the ancient nobles--it were wise to tell thee frankly--there
is some discontent."

"Is it new matter?" she asked, frowning a little. She had motioned him to a seat, for she saw
that he had much to say.

"It hath been spoken of before, but since--since the treachery of the Council and--other things--and
the most unbounded confidence by the Signoria reposed in me to uphold the Queen--I have sought
more nearly to sift the causes of this disaffection. They seem to me to be not beyond conciliation."

"'Not beyond conciliation,'" she echoed, "it seems to thee! It is a sad word to bring me of
my people, Aluisi, since I would give my life for them." Her eyes had filled with tears.

"It is sad, beloved Lady: but nothing is hopeless that is not finished. Is it not better to
see wisely than to ignore?--Let us be brave."

She folded her hands very tightly for a moment, as if struggling with herself; then she lifted
her eyes to his.

"Teach me," she said. "What wouldst thou?--Thou shalt verily be made one of the Counts of the
Chamber, that I may know one loyal among my Cyprian nobles."

"Nay, nay"--he made an effort to assume a lighter tone--"there is no need; else would it be
wise to sail for Venice with the fleet of the Mocenigo! But, pardon me, fair Cousin; there
is no need to bind my loyalty with Cyprian titles and Cyprian lands. Let the Sovereign of Cyprus
seek her own nobles for such favors."

"Shall I stoop to buy the people of my kingdom?" she asked, a little bitterly. "Is this thy
honorable counsel?"

He rose at once. "My Cousin," he said, "thou art not thyself--thine anger doth color thy speech.
I crave thy promise to listen fairly to my honest thinking--which it is not over-easy to bring
thee." He spoke compassionately.

"Forgive me, Aluisi; I listen."

"Out of thy generous heart, thou wouldst have covered me--who am a Venetian--with Cyprian honors.
I thank thee. But I will translate thee to thyself. Was it 'to buy my loyalty?'"

"Nay, nay--but of appreciation--to show thee grace. Thou knowest it, Aluisi!" Her repentance
came swift and warm as that of a child.

"I know it well," he answered heartily. "Show but this thy grace to thy Cyprian nobles and
win them to thy court. They should come first in favor of their Queen."

"Have I been found lacking?" she asked, slowly; "and if--and if there seemeth little to reward?"

"Reward that little openly, and there shall be more. Bethink thee: there hath been great honor
shown the Mocenigo."

"It was so ordered by the Republic," she began in a tone of self-justification; then stopped
with a sudden perception of his point.

"Was it for this, perchance, that the Cyprian nobles came less heartily?" he pursued. "Is there
no honor that might yet be granted to that most noble knight, the Admiral Costanzo?"

"Whatever favor he would have is already his:--he was the friend of Janus and my own," she
answered in a tone of surprise that was almost indignant. And then, with a lingering on the
words that was indescribably pathetic, she added:

"Janus hath written of him, 'Nostro caro, fedel a ben amato Sieur Mutio di Costanzo' (our dear,
faithful and well-beloved seigneur) thou mayest read it in our 'Libro delle Rimembranze.' Could
I do aught to add thereto?"

For answer he bowed his head, in tender reverence for her thought: for the loyalty with which
she sought and treasured every token of nobility that had been chronicled of her husband--for
the proud discretion with which she taught herself such utter silence on her wrongs--for the
great love which, growing to a culte through those years of girlish dreams and of fair anticipation,
had made this attitude possible for her,--who was all truth.

"His Excellency the Admiral is verily the champion of Cyprus," the Bernardini resumed after
a little silence; "and methinks he would hold dear the royal order to re-man the galleys which
have been disbanded--as it is now thought, by advice of the traitor Rizzo, or of some other
Councillor in favor of Ferdinand of Naples. I would fain bring this matter for consideration
before the Council, if it hath your Majesty's favor."

"It is well," she said, in a tone of perplexity, "if it seemeth so to the Council of the Realm.
But our counsellors of Venice who brought us aid, spoke not of this."

She lifted her liquid dark eyes to his face, as she spoke--a girl of nineteen, bewildered with
the intricate jealousies and strifes of her island kingdom--no wonder that she felt her hands
weak to hold the sceptre so disputed!

"It may be that Venice hath not so closely at heart the interests of Cyprus as the Queen herself
might hold them," he answered slowly and watching her as he spoke. "We must win the Cyprian
nobles to our councils and consult their needs and bring them before the people as in the grace
of your Majesty. Let us not always think the thoughts of Venice." She started and flushed slightly
at his last words, but how could he help her else?--"We must do this to bind the hearts of
the nobles to our Prince," he added, to give her courage.

"Let us not always think the thoughts of Venice!" The meaning was new to her, and for a few
moments she struggled with it silently; then she lifted her eyes to his face and searched it
artlessly, as a child might have done, to see if she had fully comprehended his strange speech--most
strange from her Venetian Councillor.

But he met her gaze as frankly, having nothing to add to the simple statement wherewith he
had sought to arouse this new consciousness within her, and which he wished her to ponder.

"Thou art more Cyprian, my cousin, than any member of the Council hath ever shown himself,"
she said at length, "and it heartens me--for thou art right. But now--just now--what may be
done?" She spoke eagerly, as if from a new standpoint.

"There is Stefano Caduna, a man of the people--most worthy of your Majesty's grace. And there
is Pietro Davilla, Seigneur and Knight, who hath proven his loyalty--how if he were to be named
Grand Constable of Cyprus? Shall these be spoken of to the Council which will meet to-morrow,
that some favor may be decreed them?"

"It is well; it should be done, thou art strength to me, Aluisi."

"Is there aught else that should be brought before the Council?" he asked.

She hesitated a moment, and then added with visible timidity and reluctance, flushing a vivid
scarlet:

"There are other things that seem too petty--but since the death of the Auditor, our Uncle
Andrea, thou hast perchance noted much scantiness of our treasury, though when it is a question
of pageantry, the Council hath ever found enough and to spare. But the land is a rich land;
yet there are no moneys in my hand wherewith to reward a favor or grant a dole of charity.
If this be a symbol of power----"

"I will replace the voice of Messer Andrea in the Council," he hastened to assure her. "And,
meanwhile--we are of one house, my Cousin----"

"Because thou art generous, shall the Council do less than its duty?" she asked proudly. "Or
shall I be content to know that measures wise for the ruling of the realm may be frowned upon
by those who hold the keys of my treasury--yet render no account? The knowledge of this added
treachery hath come to me but recently; and this also was of Rizzo's malfeasance. Dost think
that moneys shall be found for the manning of our fleet? Or that I have any voice in the spending
of them?"

"The Madonna be praised that Rizzo and that Minister of Satan are fled!" he exclaimed devoutly.

"While Rizzo held office, I might ask no question," she said, turning towards him a face of
pathetic appeal; for she had never before dared to speak freely of her grievances even to him--in
so comprehensive a manner had the Chief of Council known how to assert himself: "and now, that
I would fain have knowledge, that I may rule my people wisely, so much there is to set in order,
that my heart doth fail me. I have written to the Serenissimo to tell him my perplexities--to
pray that he might make it lighter for me to rule."

The Bernardini knew that she had cause for her failing courage, while yet he keenly felt that
the remedy should not lie in an appeal to Venice, whose power was the unacknowledged core of
bitterness in the growing disaffection among the Cyprian nobles. It might not yet be too late
to save the kingdom for Cyprus; and what it lay within his power to do, Venetian though he
was, he would do, rather than see this 'isola fortunata' slip without a struggle, into a mere
Venetian province. The knowledge had been painfully growing within him that Venice was playing
her hand skilfully--that Caterina would find herself simply a pawn to be moved at will of the
Republic, and that "check" would be called whenever that masterful will should elect: there
had been signs, too many to ignore, of splendor of movement and expenditure whenever the prestige
of the Republic might be concerned--of indifference when the grievances of the Queen were confessed,
or the autonomy of the island was in question--of slowly increasing assertion of Venetian power
and rights.

He had accepted his mission, at the hands of his Government, to protect the rights of the Queen--not
to enslave Cyprus; and his duty stood forth to him in firm, unwavering lines. Yet how should
he dismay Caterina further in the attempt to force her fuller comprehension? He hesitated for
a moment, but there seemed no other way. For very pity of her he spoke decidedly, with slow
insistence holding her attention.

"The Queen of Cyprus holdeth her kingdom by no favor of Venice; but of inheritance, through
her husband, the King. The failures in the Government should be righted by Cyprian wisdom;
we must fill the vacancies with Cypriotes. I will take counsel with His Excellency the Lord
Admiral of Cyprus."

XXVIII

It was the birthday of the little Prince:--only one year since he had opened his baby-eyes
on life--and the day of his anniversary dawned radiantly.

Then, suddenly, athwart the sunshine and the promise, like the cloud in a perfect sky in a
day of June, the shadows gathered and darkened.

The child was stricken.

"There is no hope," they said; and before the day had closed the little dimpled hands were
folded over his marble breast, the long dark lashes peacefully swept the violet eyes that would
never again unclose; and the tiny restless feet were still--oh, God, how still!--while, on
the baby-brows that would never know the weight of the crown he was born to bear, the smile
of a cherub crowned him with the promise of fairer Life.

The nobles, the soldiers, the courtiers, the people, they came and looked, often with silent
tears, as he lay in state, in the light of countless tapers, on his mound of flowers--offerings
not only from royal terraces--for his mother had willed it so--but the gifts which his people
had brought, lay there together, rare exotics and the flowers of the field and forest, crushed
and mangled, perchance, in some toil-worn hand when they came from far.

How little he seemed to have carried the hope of a kingdom!--how strong, to have swept it away
with the mere folding of his baby-hand!--how mighty, to have crushed all dreams of happiness,
forever, within his mother's breast!

GOD HAVE MERCY!

       *       *       *       *       *

When the first days of the shock of the child's death had passed, and the Queen had roused
herself to notice those who were anxiously watching her, she asked to be left alone with Dama
Margherita: but of the child she would not speak.

"Tell me," she said, "of the saintly Margherita of thine house, the Abbess of San Lazzaro;
why left she the world?"

"Dear Lady--beloved Lady"--Dama Margherita pleaded, and would have soothed her; but the Queen
would have the story. She laid a hot, tremulous hand on that of her friend and urged her with
dry, imploring eyes, as she listened to the tale of the founding of the Abbey of San Lazzaro,
while for pity, the tears of Margherita were dropping fast.

"We must turn her from this thought," said Dama Margherita earnestly to the Lady of the Bernardini,
as she left the Queen's presence, sorrowfully. "She will not speak of the child; she hath wept
no tears; and the fever of her grief, locked within herself, will drive her to madness. She
hath asked that Father Johannes be sent for, without delay. Doubtless it is for this scheme.
Doth it seem wise to your Excellency now--while she is in this state?"

"Cara Margherita, should we be slow to obey the will of a suffering soul, for fear of what
might chance? The reverend Father is wise for her: if any might bring her comfort, it is he."

       *       *       *       *       *

Father Johannes Lampadisti had been often with the Queen in the past year, and had become her
trusted counsellor, and almoner in many matters relating to the people, so that the guards
and servants of the palace knew that when the wild prior of the convent from the mountain of
the Troödos appeared in the palace court-yard asking audience of the Queen, he was never to
be denied.

"Most reverend Father," she said, stretching out her hand to greet him, yet with no hint of
welcome in her wan face, "they have stripped me of every joy; I had thought the Holy Christus
and the Blessed Mother of Sorrows had been more kind!"

"Daughter!" he exclaimed, startled at her mood; "cry not out against the will of Heaven, lest
thou sin because of thine unendurable anguish."

The words had escaped him, involuntarily, but already he was chiding himself that he could
bring her, at such a time, even the shadow of a reproach.

But Caterina was beyond any perception of minor shades of feeling. She answered him in the
same passionless tone in which she had greeted him, with no suggestion of self-pity, nor any
claim for sympathy in her manner, as she motioned him to a seat near her.

"Nay, Father," she said, "in this hath Heaven been merciful: I feel nothing; my heart is a
stone. For this I thank the Holy Mother; she knew that I could not bear it, else."

She made the statement simply, as if it implied nothing unusual, and waited for him to speak.

But for once Father Johannes had no words; his eyes grew dim as he looked at the young, passive
face of the Queen, "stripped of every joy," alone on the threshold of life. "Daughter," he
said, stumblingly, "I fain would comfort thee."

"Nay, Father," she answered, still without emotion, "there is no comfort. Let us speak of other
things."

"Nay, of this," he said, with an awkward wave of his rough brown hand, as if he would have
put everything else away: and then relapsed into silence, for in the presence of the grief
which had mastered her, words seemed to have lost their meaning.

She also waited--as a gray stone might wait by the wayside, unconscious of the lapse of time:
for him the moments were quick with thought--for her it was as if they had not been, because
life had ended.

"There must be comfort for all sorrow that Heaven permitteth," he protested at last.

She looked at him wondering.

"But not for mine," she said in the same colorless tone. "Thou knowest naught of such sorrow,
for thou livest apart from men. Thou canst not know the pain, when thou hast not known the joy."

"Yet from sympathy one may know," he began feebly. But she took no notice of the interruption,
and as he looked at her he realized that he had never known life in its poignancy--that he
stood outside the depths of human suffering, though he had dwelt forever in its shadow, nor
had his stern life measured the height of holy, human joy.

"I left my people and my land," she said, "and came hither for a great love, and that--that"--there
was the sound of a sob in her throat as she paused for a moment, then caught her breath and
went on in the same even tone,--"and that was taken from me. And now--oh, God!--my child!"

She strained her arms tightly to her breast and laid her cheek, with a great tenderness upon
her thin, white hands, as if her little one were resting there and she sought the comfort of
his caress.

Father Johannes turned away his eyes: the low murmur of cooing tones of mother-ecstasy came
to him as in a dream. Was the child's angel really there?--He did not know.

"Now, oh holy Mater Dolorosa, Mater Sanctissima," he prayed within himself.--"I know what thou
hast suffered; have mercy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no longer any sound in the room. She had dropped her arms at her side and had come
nearer to him.

"Thou canst not know the depth of human suffering, Father Johannes, for these things enter
not into thy holy life--else couldst thou not pass thy days in prayer and passionless meditation."

"Passionless!" he cried, and was silent, pressing his hand, unconsciously, against the thorny
cross on his breast.

"I have sent for thee again, Father, to ask a question which thou alone canst answer."

She lifted her troubled eyes to his, deep with her question that seemed the more terrible because
her quiet voice still showed no trace of emotion.

"Thou, who knowest the ways of God----"

(He groaned aloud.)

"Hath He stricken me for any sin?"

Then suddenly the passion of her question flamed in her white face--she searched his, as if
life or death lay in his answer.

From the hand upon his breast the blood trickled in slow drops, while he laid the other upon
her head in benediction:

"No--child--no," he gasped; "God help thee--no!"

"If--if it were for sin of mine," she said slowly, and watching him as if she had not known
whether she might trust his words--"might I not leave the world, and take the veil in the Convent
of the Holy Cross?"

"Thou?" he cried. "Thou!"

"Am I not fit?" she asked. "Is it not for those who suffer and would leave the world?"

He shook his head. "No; thou art beloved of the Holy Mother. The world is thy cross. It is
there that thou shalt do thy penance. The Convent is not for thee."

"Father, I have no tears to offer in penance."

"God asketh not tears if He hath denied them," he answered--his own choking his speech, "but
the gift of what He hath given thee--to stand where He hath placed thee and take up thy burden
of life."

"Father, I have no strength, nor will."

"They will be sent thee," he answered her.

"God is not angry with me?" she asked again with sudden passion. "Then why--why did He take
my child away--my little, little child?--and --thus?"

He looked at her startled. Had the terrible rumor reached her which they were striving to keep
from her, that the little, royal, innocent life had been the victim of some intrigue--that
the sudden, fatal illness had not been sent by Heaven? The rumor had been sifted, and no clue
had been found, while yet it might not be wholly dismissed. Yet was the fear of this horror
added to the mother's anguish? Nothing but action would save her from madness.

Then suddenly his weakness left him, because of her need; he felt that he must hold her in
her place at all costs. He rose and looked down upon her, steadying her by the magnetic strength
in his face,--his eyes wild with the intensity of his belief.

"Whom He loveth, He chasteneth," he said. "It is granted thee to know the depth of the meaning
of those holy words. The blessed Christus, with great drops of anguish falling from His sacred
brows, cried out, 'Can any sorrow be like my sorrow?' God is not angry with thee, my daughter;
but so He fashioneth a soul for His great work. Life is thy cross, my child. Lift it and clasp
it--Heaven's peace shall be thine."

"Why not the Convent, Father?" she asked, still irresolute. "I am so weary."

Then his voice took on a note of authority--she shrank before it as the tones rang out like
the cry of a prophet:

"It is not for thee; for thy place is here.

"If suffering is sent thee, thou must bear it here.

"If loneliness hath come to thee, thou shalt meet it here.

"If thou art desolate, the children of thy people are thine.

"If thy dream of love is broken, the love of thy people is about thee.

"If thy heart and hands are empty, the duties of thy realm shall fill them.

"Thou shalt keep thy vow!

"Thou shalt make none other; none other may be so holy for thee.

"Thou hast tasted joy and found it bitter; in duty shalt thou find sweetness and strength.

"And the Lord thy God, and the Madonna and the Holy Christus shall bless thee. Amen.

"I have the revelation!"

The crisp sentences crashed upon each other like a rushing torrent, hot with inspiration, challenging
acceptance. She had risen to her feet and stood quivering before him, her eyes held to his
by a strange fascination--the wild glow within his giving her sight of her dormant self and will.

He raised his crucifix above her and she slowly fell on her knees; and so he left her.

XXIX

For days after the visit of Hagios Johannes, Caterina scarcely spoke, or noticed what was passing
around her; and the Lady of the Bernardini and Dama Margherita, with hearts aching from the
burden of their pity, were helpless before such desolation.

But at last the young Queen turned to them with mournful eyes of comprehension, holding out
her hands to clasp theirs in a convulsive pressure, rousing herself heroically from her absorption
and nerving her dormant will to meet the unwelcome stress of life again.

"The Holy Mother hath left you for me to love," she said in a tremulous voice. "Life is not
all a blank."

They could not answer her for tears; but her own eyes were dry.

"I thought," she said, "if it might but have been the will of Christ that death should come
to me--also"--she paused a moment to steady her voice, "it would have been sweet--I was so
weary. And when it did not come to lift me out of the shadow, I longed to carry my broken heart
into some holy Sisterhood and be at rest--I felt no strength to live. I thought it might have
been the will of the Madre Sanctissima, for she hath suffered; and I know not how to live without
my figlio dilettissimo."

Then suddenly she clasped her hands crying out with the passion of prayer:

"My God! I would have trained him for thee! He should have been a noble man and a Christian
King. Why hast Thou stricken me!"

She turned to them wide-eyed with her question but the Lady Beata, for answer, could only fold
compassionate arms about her--soothing her silently; so young and so bereft.

But Caterina struggled into quiet speech again, as in a confessional--sorely needing some comfort
of human sympathy after her long, silent conflict.

"I thought it might have been the will of the Blessed Mother that I should rest; but Hagios
Johannes hath shown me that it might not be; I have taken my vows again to serve my people--to
live for them; the padre hath promised me that strength shall come."

Her lip quivered, but she bore herself bravely. "Thou wilt help me, Zia," she continued, in
pathetic appeal, "and thou, my Margherita; for life is difficult. And Aluisi--he will think
what must be done for the people until my strength returneth--for I have forgotten how to think."
She pressed her hands tightly against her forehead as if to compel the resistant brain-power.

Then suddenly she laid her hot, trembling hand on that of her compassionate, motherly friend,
her voice rising into a wail--"Father Johannes hath said that I must give the people all the
love I gave my baby--but not yet--I cannot do it yet!--Mother of Sorrows forgive me!--he doth
not know."

She fell back on her pillows exhausted by her emotion, while in a low, crooning voice the name
she loved to utter broke from her longing lips again, like a threnody:

"Figlio dilettissimo!"

The Lady Beata's heart was wrung with pity.

"Nay, nay, Carinissima," she said, stooping over the couch and speaking with tender decision,
"Hagios Johannes could not know what mothers feel! This holy love for thy little one shall
bide ever with thee and grow with thy life. It is thy breath of Heaven! It shall nerve thee
to do the work of thy child--to live for the people he would have ruled. Him thou shalt love
forever--it is the will of the Madre Beatissima:--but after thy child shall come his people."

A change passed over the strained, worn face of the young Queen, like a faint breath of comfort.

"Zia mia," she murmured, laying her thin white hand in the warm, restful clasp: and so passed
into the first quiet sleep that she had known for days.

       *       *       *       *       *

While the unhappy Queen was bravely struggling to recover her poise, many things were happening;
for the death of the infant King had been the signal for further manifestations of discontent
from a party of Cyprian nobles whose dread of the "Lion of the velvet paw" increased as the
need for some firm governing hand became more evident. They would have liked to anger Venice
to the point of withdrawing all protection and leaving them to their own devices--yet they
dared not attempt it openly, appreciating the futility of any armed resistance that unassisted
Cypriotes might offer.

For the Turk was watching from his near point of vantage; and if he had hitherto been content
with sending his private ships to ravage and terrorize the towns along the coast, this might
but be the prelude to more ambitious projects. Naples was still eagerly awaiting some favorable
moment to lay hands upon the coveted island, and rumors of waning favor had been wafted from
Alexandria, since Cyprus had allowed the tribute due to the Sultan to fall in arrears.

Carlotta, upon hearing of the death of the little Janus III, had at once renewed her claim
to the throne; some of the ancient nobles had declared for her, and it was felt, rather than
known, that her partisans were secretly gathering strength. There was evidently some hostile
influence at work in the innermost circle of the Court.

And now, when Cyprus was at extremity, Venice alone--alert, powerful, resourceful--could be
relied upon for aid: her protection of the island in the time of Rizzo's conspiracy, had given
her the right to a voice in the government--or so she claimed, and there were none to gainsay
it. Her Provveditori were armed with the plenary power that was not invariably used to the
advantage of Cyprus, yet the vigilant Signoria were ever ready with fresh instructions--if
the paw were of velvet, it was no longer sheathed!

Letters of condolence were duly sent from the Serenissimo; so, also, came without delay the
declaration that the Queen had inherited the full rights vested in her son, and should reign
alone; with the further announcement, so simply stated that it might well seem beyond refutation--that
Venice was heir to her beloved daughter, Caterina Veneta.

       *       *       *       *       *

No wonder that the Cypriotes gnashed their teeth in their powerlessness to dispute this insolent
assertion, while their indignation effervesced in petty intrigues!

But Dama Ecciva's spirits had revived.

"It is more like the olden days," she said, well content; "for if there is no splendor of court-life
such as our good Janus loved, at least there is matter for gossip to brighten the mortal dulness
of a court in mourning! The Ambassador hath returned from the Court of Alexandria, and hath
made relation of his mission and declared the favor of the Sultan, which, to the surprise of
some"--she paused and glanced about her to make sure that all were listening--"hath been granted
to Her Majesty the Queen Caterina--and not to Queen Carlotta."

"There is no Queen Carlotta!" a chorus of indignant young voices answered her. "If the Lady
of the Bernardini were here----"

"Aye--but she is not." Ecciva returned placidly: "The Madonna be praised for a moment's liberty
to utter one's thought! She and the Dama Margherita who knoweth more surely to tie one's honest
speech than even the great Lady of the Bernardini, are gone to the Sala Regia to represent
Her Majesty and receive the splendid gifts which His Excellency the Ambassador hath brought
from Alexandria. And this am I sent to tell you, by the Lady of the Bernardini--who is a gracious
tyrant and would save a bit of pleasure for our childish souls out of the dulness of the days.
And when we hear the champing of horses in the great court of the palace--but there is already
a tumult below--fly then!"

She had dashed out under the arcades and was leaning between the columns, making her quick
eager comments to the bevy of maidens who had followed her, as the little train of slaves bearing
the royal gifts passed through the court-yard of the palace.

"A regal mantle of cloth of gold, with its gleam of jewels for her lorn Majesty--who will never
again wear aught but trappings of woe, if she might have her will--it is a waste of treasure!"

"For shame, Ecciva!"

"Nay; for we are only we--not the Dama Margherita; nor the Lady of the Bernardini.--Will the
mourning bring back the child?--One may weep one's life away in vain."

"Thou hast no heart, Ecciva: how should we not grieve with her!"

"So it pleaseth one to grieve, I am well content. But the way of weeping is strange to me.
Methinks it would be kinder to cheer her soul with some revelry--or a race on that splendid
Arab steed, stepping so daintily, with its great dark eyes and quivering nostrils, where the
red color comes! The Sultan himself hath chosen this beauty for Her Majesty--she who perchance
will never mount him, scorning to do aught that would make the blood flow warmer through the
veins;--going daily to San Nicolò with her taper and knowing naught of pleasure in life; unless
it verily pleaseth her to grieve! What availeth it to her that she is Queen!"

"What availeth it to her to win the love of the people as none hath ever done before!" Eloisà
cried hotly, moved from her timidity by her indignation. "That wilt thou never know, Ecciva,
who dost so belie thy heart with thy unkind speech. But verily"--she pursued, relenting--"thou
art far gentler than thy speech--not untrue, as thou wouldst have us believe!"

"What is 'untrue'?" Dama Ecciva asked, undisturbed. "How may one know? Shall one ask Carlotta?--Or
Queen Caterina? Or--if he might but answer us now--the charming Janus?--My brain is too little
to unravel the mystery."

XXX

Naples also found the moment propitious for re-asserting her baseless claims to this much-disputed
crown; since the death of the infant King had left the Queen without a successor in her own
line, and might dispose her to look with favor on the proffer of the hand of Don Alfonso of
Naples who would graciously consent to accept the position of King-consort--instead of that
of "Prince of Galilee," which had not proved to be the imposing, permanent honor his partisans
had fondly hoped.

Meanwhile, with the persistence worthy of a better cause, his supporters had ingeniously thrust
him forward--a compliant puppet--from one scheme into another--all tending toward this same
noble end. Immediately after the failure of Rizzo's conspiracy, he had been betrothed to the
illegitimate daughter of King Janus--one of the three children mentioned in his will--who with
her two brothers, had been sent to Venice to avert possible disastrous consequences; a small
following in Cyprus upheld this match--so eager were they that some descendant of their charmer
King Janus, should keep the crown of their realm, that they granted the Neapolitan Prince Alfonso
the shadowy title of "Prince of Galilee."

But after the death of his young betrothed, Alfonso had followed Carlotta to Alexandria, where
Rizzo now held the honorable post of Ambassador to the Sultan from the Court of Naples; and
here, while Venice was still playing her game, sub-rosa without the overt confession of power
that came later--Rizzo, the arch-schemer, first sought to bring about the adoption of the prince
of Naples by Carlotta--as heir-presumptive to her rights; and later, as her following among
the Cyprian nobility increased, proposed Alfonso for husband to Carlotta.

But now, since the strength of Venice could be no longer doubted, Rizzo, holding ever in view
the ascendancy of his chief and with an astounding faith in his own magnificent insolence,
rose to the occasion, and sailed on a secret embassy for Cyprus to propose the hand of Alfonso
to Queen Caterina herself!

The details of this romantic intrigue were not known until long afterward in the court-circle,
except by the few who had intercepted and frustrated the carefully-laid plans; but there were
many hints of some concealed happening of deep interest which made delightful themes for romantic
conjecture whenever the younger maids of honor found themselves happily without the dignified
supervision of the Lady of the Bernardini and Madama di Thénouris, or the equally-to-be-evaded
younger maid-of-honor, Margherita de Iblin.

"Something has happened, and no one tells us anything," one of them declared discontentedly
when curiosity had reached an unbearable pitch, and the rumors of which they had caught echoes
were growing in interest. "There was a fire high upon the hills one morning; some say it was
a beacon fire."

"There are always rumors that mean nothing," said Eloisà quietly.

Dama Margherita had been kept in close attendance upon the Queen, who had been often in counsel
with the Counts of the Chamber of late, and Eloisà had an uneasy sense that it devolved upon
her to uphold the quietness of discussion for which Dama Margherita always strove.

"Nay, Eloisà--that strange craft, hiding back of the great rock on the coast--without lights
or colors--why was it anchored there, in sight of the signal-fire, instead of in the port where
it had been safer?"

"Thou wilt have it a beacon-fire," Eloisà interposed again; "it is in truth more romantic than
a blaze some wanderer may have lighted to do duty for his camp."

But no one answered her, they were all humming about Dama Ecciva, interrupting each other with
excited questions; for Dama Ecciva had been, if possible, more mysterious and tantalizing than
ever since these rumors had been afloat--which was a sign that she could tell something if
she would. "So, my pretty friends!" she answered with a silvery laugh, "for once it entereth
your thought that there be matters about which we--the Maids of honor of Her Majesty--are not
worthy to hear!"

"I make exception of the Dama Margherita, to whom Her Majesty is honey-sweet!" she added, as
her glance rested on Eloisà; and growing hot as she dwelt upon the thought, she went on--"she
hath a manner quite insufferable--she, who hath not more right than I to rule this court. If
one were to put the question to our knights--'an Iblin or a de Montferrat?' would it make a
pretty tourney for a Cyprian holiday?"

She laughed a mocking, malicious laugh; then suddenly stretched out one slender hand and made
a descriptive motion as of tossing her glove into the centre of a distant circle--her eyelids
narrowing until they seemed almost to close--a strange light escaping from them--her breath
coming with slow pants, as if from suffocation--the hand dropped at her side betraying her
passion by convulsive movements trembling through the tinted finger-tips.

In the bizarre Cyprian costume which many of the ancient Greek patricians still retained, she
seemed of a different mold from the young Venetian gentlewomen of the court of Caterina--like
some fantastic fury, half-elf, half-woman.

"The Melusina!" Eloisà whispered, shuddering: "thou mindest me of her. I like thee not in this
strange mood!" while the others drew away from her with a faint cry of protest.

But Ecciva's momentary mood of passion passed as quickly as it came; and she answered her companions
with a tantalizing, sparkling smile, rallying them on their seriousness, and flashing whimsicalities
around the circle like some splendid, inconsequent fire-fly.

Her dark hair, woven with coins and trinkets, fell in innumerable long slender braids behind,
from under a coronet of jessamine blossoms strung together upon strips of palm, which clasped
the clustering waves of hair closer about her face--pure and colorless as old ivory. Her robe,
of green brocade, richly embroidered with gold, fell over full pantaloons of scarlet satin
which were tightly bound about the slender ankles by jewelled bands, displaying to advantage
the tiny feet, clad in boots of soft, yellow kid, fantastically wrought with gold threads;
the robe parted over a bodice of yellow, open at the throat, around which chains of gold and
jewels were wound in undue profusion.

"It is thou, perchance, Ecciva, who knowest not how to win the favor of Dama Margherita," ventured
one maiden, bolder than the rest; "for with us hath she ever been most gracious. And for Her
Majesty, the Queen----"

But a sudden impulse had come to Ecciva to cover herself with glory by making her companions
sharers in the news of which she had gotten knowledge by a fashion peculiarly her own.

"Nay: leave the Queen to the Dama Margherita for this one blissful morning," she interrupted
without ceremony: "for I have news--verily; and they may return ere it be told. Which of you
knoweth aught of the Holy Sister Violante--she of the down-held lids and silent ways--who slipped
into the court the night of that great signal fire upon the mountain, behind the citadel?"

She scanned the eager faces triumphantly, but no one had anything to tell.

"For verily the Sister Violante maketh part of this strange mystery," she proceeded after a
moment of impressive silence. "She and the great signal fire--of which no one knew aught!--so
innocent were all the gentlemen of the court--and the Bernardini most of all! But they are
parts of one romance; and the Violante came to influence Her Majesty; the Violante, with her
devout ways, wearing the habit of a holy sisterhood to which her gracious Majesty is wont to
give undue reverence--being not apt to penetrate an intrigue--too fair a saint, by far!--The
Sister Violante came to win Her Majesty to acquiesce in some strange bidding from Rhodes; or
perchance from the Sultan himself."

"How knowest thou, Ecciva?" They crowded around her thrilling with pleasant excitement--the
craving for which was unduly whetted by the splendor and aimlessness of the life of this Eastern
court--for a romance with such a beginning might have an indefinitely delightful termination;
and Dama Ecciva had some strange knack of always knowing more than others of any savory morsel
of gossip of which there might be hints in the air.

She looked at them nonchalantly, well-pleased at any sort of dominance, but never confessing
it by her attitude.

"Have I not eyes?" she questioned, with tantalizing slowness; "and ears?--Are they to grow
dull for lack of usage?"

"Nay; tell us, Ecciva."

She drew nearer and lowered her voice mysteriously. "That Tristan de Giblet--he who would have
killed the King the night that he climbed the city-walls and fled to Rhodes--we know the tale----"

"Aye, aye; we know it. And then?"--they pleaded impatiently.

But Dama Ecciva was not to be swerved from the irritating composure which pleased her mood
for the moment:

"And one of us--hath any one seen Alicia de Giblet? She hath not been among us since that night
of the signal fire."

"She hath been ill, in the Château de Giblet this month past," several voices responded at once.

"Perchance, sweet maids;--or in some other less splendid castle where dungeons are of more
account than the fine banquet hall of the de Giblet! And because Alicia is sister to this Messer
Tristan--I have done much thinking of late--it is time for the Bernardini to return. Let us
give over talk."

"Alicia de Giblet was sister to that traitor!" one of them exclaimed indignantly; "and we never
dreamed it! But she was gentilissima; poverina! Ah, the pity of it!"

"But how came she ill, 'because of it,' as thou sayest, Ecciva?" Eloisà questioned, wishing
ever to have a reason for her beliefs; "it was long since!"

"The night of the King's flight was long since--verily--before his coronation. Carlotta was
Queen, then;--there have been wars and death and woe enough since then! But this night of the
signal fire is but a month agone--and that night came Tristan de Giblet to talk with his sister,
who let him into the Palazzo Reale. The daring of the man! We are not cowards--we Cyprians!"

"Ecciva!--how canst thou verily be sure!"

She touched her eyes again, mysteriously.

"I knew him," she said, "when he was talking with his sister, and I heard her promise him to
bring him into the private audience chamber of the Queen."

"And thou, also, wert there?"

"Am I the Margherita to be shown such favor? Nay, but I have an audience-chamber of my own
from the window of my turret when there is no light within: and all that day I knew by the
face of Alicia that there was some intrigue--which I was not one to miss through heedlessness!
Alicia was watching for him that night; and I knew his face when I saw them together on the
terrace. And with them was another man--wrapped in a cloak--the feather of his hat drooping
low over his face.--And his face--I never turned my eyes away from him and I saw it for a moment
when the wind swept his feather aside--his face was the face of--Rizzo!" she whispered the name.

"Nay, nay, Ecciva--not he! It could not be he!"

"Nay, my trusting children; believe your betters, if you will! As for me--I trust these eyes,
rather than the uncertain speech of those who teach us what we may believe. These eyes are
good eyes! They have not failed me yet!"

She laughed lightly, satisfied with the impression her tale had made, as she turned away indifferently;
but they were eager for the rest.

"There is more, Ecciva!--that which cometh after?--subito--for the Lady of the Bernardini might
return!" They were all clamoring about her. "And Alicia verily brought him to the Queen's audience-chamber?"

"Nay--bide my time, chatterers, if you would hear the tale--for it hath a sequel--we do not
often get one good enough to be spoiled by a too hasty telling.--Rizzo, for it was verily he--can
any one forget Rizzo!--he turned from them and began to climb the mountain, there, where the
signal fire glowed later. And Tristan, the handsome knight, came into the palace with his sister;
and after them come following the holy sister Violante--she who came hither from Rhodes some
days before."

"Go on!" they cried eagerly, crowding closer. She waved them away from her.

"There is no more," she answered provokingly--"save that which we all know; the signal-fire,
and the galley floating below by the coast, half hidden by the great rock--for that also I
saw from my turret--thanks be to the Madonna for lifting the mortal dulness! And I left sleep
for better things that night; for it was well-nigh the hour of matins when the galley set sail
for Venice."

"But the audience with the Queen?"

"There was no audience. For I bethought me of somewhat I had forgotten in the ante-chamber--not
to miss the knowledge of what was passing--and I sped me thither. And then there was naught
left to do but to hide me, somewhat weak of heart, in the tapestry of the ante-chamber; for
the door was wide into the Queen's salon, and there was His Excellency the Bernardini, flashing
scorn in his speech, so that one thought the air would break into flames--he, the while, standing
still enough for an image of a wrathful Kinyras; the Queen's guard was around him, all in full
armor--a doughty corps of men to meet those three!--Alicia, white as a spirit, weeping against
Tristan; and Violante, shaken out of her holy calm, kneeling to pray His Excellency's grace!"

"And then----?"

"And then they left the Queen's chamber and I dared not creep forth until all was quiet again.
But I heard His Excellency's speech as he stood bowing in the doorway when the guards led Tristan
forth--a model of courtesy one would have said--for I could see him through a parting in the
arras though I risked my life in standing there--'Her Majesty' said the Bernardini--very fair
of speech--'doth surely owe such escort to the Illustrissimo, the Seigneur de Giblet, for the
attention he would fain have offered in his own person to King Janus, in his Episcopal Palace
before he wore the crown of the realm.' And the Seigneur de Giblet, not to be outdone--being
Cyprian--answers him--very proud and cold--'Is your Excellency ever so faithful to reward a
service contemplated, but not achieved?' For he had meant to smother the King in his sleep
that night, if Janus had not escaped to Egypt."

They were all silent until Ecciva, less overcome by these tragic memories, resumed her story.

"And after that, Tristan came no more; nor his sister, the fair Alicia; nor Rizzo, the dark-browed.
Nor was it many days ere Violante, the most holy sister, had left the court.--Ask the Provveditori!"

"But what message did they bring Her Majesty?"

"Am I a noble of Venice that I should know this mystery which toucheth our realm of Cyprus?"
she answered scornfully. "Ask the Bernardini, or the Dama Margherita--to whom he confesseth
all his soul!"

"But Rizzo?" Eloisà asked, bewildered.

"And Rizzo--when he had lighted the signal fire on the mountain--thinking perchance, there
had been time for the meeting with the Queen which Alicia had promised Tristan--and the galley
had come to shore beneath and waited for him,--went on board, nothing doubting, thinking to
return to Rhodes--who knoweth?--To Carlotta perchance;--but he found the galley manned with
mariners from the arsenal of Venice; and Tristan coming to set sail for Venice, with the Queen's
guard, all in full armor, to speed him on his way: and a Venetian General in command, in lieu
of the African Captain of the galley who brought him hither. For one may seek in vain to outwit
a Venetian; one must admire them for that, though it work us woe!"

"It is thine own tale, verily, Ecciva; thou speakest to mock us!"

"Nay--faith of Sant'Elenà, it is true and sad enough--if there were not sadder to come. For
Tristan, the gallant, handsome knight, being in chains, and fearing worse awaited him when
he should reach Venice, wrenched the diamond from a ring he wore and kneaded it into the bread
they served him for his breakfast, and swallowed it--and so there was an end."

They still looked at her incredulously--"How shouldst thou know this tale of horror more than
others--if it were true?"

She shrugged her shoulders indifferently. "If one maketh wise use of opportunity, one need
not always wait the telling. But to-morrow the court will be ringing with the tale; it cometh
but now from Venice."

"But Rizzo?"

"He is there in Venice in the pozzi; and the end will not be easy like that of Tristan. For
he is the greatest traitor of them all--verily a traitor almost sublime. It were not so difficult
to admire the nerve of the man!--Rizzo----"

But her further speech was lost in the babel of expostulation and question that broke forth,
and which would have lasted long but for the return of Madama di Thénouris and Dama Margherita.

XXXI

The court had been recently thrown into consternation by the discovery of a plot to seize the
various citadels of the island and hold them for Carlotta. It was evidently well supported
and far advanced, as disclosed by the intercepted letters addressed to some unknown person,
which had been laid before the Council; all who were mentioned as partisans or confidants in
this intrigue were designated under assumed names, but the knowledge which these papers gave
the Council was of immense value, enabling them to provide that all the garrisons of Cyprus
should be commanded by men of known loyalty to the Queen. Meanwhile vigorous efforts were being
made to discover the identity of the person addressed as

     "L'Illustrissima,
     Madama di Niuna."

But no light had been thrown upon the matter, although it had been openly discussed in the
court-circle.

Dama Margherita had noticed with uneasiness that Ecciva de Montferrat, who was usually on the
alert for any excitement, had seemed singularly apathetic when this subject had been broached,
and she felt that the trust reposed in her by the Admiral required her to mention her suspicions
to Madama di Thénouris, although she shrank from this duty the more because she knew that Dama
Ecciva was supposed to be exerting some secret influence against herself.

"Dear Madama di Thénouris," she said appealingly, "it seems so much the more ungracious on
my part. Yet it is treachery to our Queen. And if it should be that Dama Ecciva hath been receiving
these letters and holding such part in these intrigues--to leave her where she hath free access
to the court-circle.--But it cannot be true; she is too young to be so faithless! And if she
need not know that I have hinted of my fears? It would seem like some petty revenge--yet I
cannot be false to my trust!"

"Thank heaven thou canst not, Margherita, since others find it easy! Yet we must watch for
our own assurance, and may thy fears prove naught! Comfort thy soul, for some one is guilty,
and the finding of the culprit will clear all others of suspicion."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is most strange about these letters," Madama di Thénouris said later, as the young maids
of honor sat around her with their embroidery frames. "Tell me, Ecciva----"

There was a sudden convulsive movement of the girl's arm and she gave an exclamation of annoyance
as the golden thread snapped in her needle; but she did not look up.

Madama di Thénouris, closely watching, saw that her fingers trembled so that she could scarcely
hold her needle.

"Tell me," she pursued in her leisurely fashion, after a slight pause, while Ecciva's needle
still remained unthreaded, "what method shall we take to discover the identity of this unknown
'illustrissima'--this Madama di Niuna?"

The girl's alarm grew evidently less; but it was a moment more before she answered:

"Why doth your Excellency thus honor me, in calling me in counsel? There are others whose opinion
would carry more weight."

"Nevertheless, since I have asked thee, give me thy thought."

"Madama di Niuna," the young maid of honor exclaimed petulantly, forgetting her deference,
"there is no Madama di Niuna!--How should I know?" The silk was hopelessly knotted and twisted
about the tiny pearl she had just threaded, requiring close attention; Madama di Thénouris
also seemed to watch her work with interest.

"Thou art right, my child, thou art over-young to have any knowledge of so despicable an intrigue.
But the matter is naturally of deep concern for us all," she added, as Ecciva, having recovered
her perfect self-control lifted her eyes to Madama di Thénouris with a smile that was intended
to thank her for her trust, while assuring her that there was no possible ground for supposing
that she had any knowledge of this intrigue.

But the gray-haired court-lady met her gaze searchingly and with no answering smile--she who
could be so gracious.

"The Council will follow a clue upon which they have just chanced, and which may lead to the
discovery. If Madama di Niuna would come forward to confess," she pursued with quiet emphasis,
"it might lessen the penalty for participation in this intrigue--which some among the Council
tell us can be nothing less than death."

There was a murmur of abhorrence from the young voices about her, but Dama Ecciva was quite
silent, although there had been a motion of her blanched lips as if to speak, and Madama di
Thénouris still held her fascinated gaze. Her eyes had suddenly dilated with a look of terror,
yet almost instantly reassumed their long oval shape--the lids closing to more than their narrow
wont: her embroidery had slipped to the floor, as she rose, and she was treading it under her
feet--bruising and grinding it passionately, as if it were some safe, unnoticed outlet to the
fear and anger that might smother her. She had flung out her hands desperately, the dainty
tapering fingers working with strenuous, nervous motions--but now they were tightly clenched
in the rose-leaf palms, and she stood bracing herself, like a statue of defiance. There was
an added pallor on the beautiful ivory face--so still she was she scarcely seemed to breathe--yet
all at tension--like some wild thing of the tropical forest, suddenly brought to bay, summoning
all her strength for the leap that was to free her.

But she might rage in vain against the invisible meshes that held her, although it was but
for a brief moment that Madama di Thénouris had searched her soul in silent confession.

XXXII

The times were perilous, and it behooved those whose duty it was to keep the wheels of the
machine sufficiently lubricated to run without over-much creaking, to see that not only were
all possible precautions taken to secure the Queen's safety, but that everything that might
promote the loyalty of the uncertain Cyprian nobility should be encouraged.

Some of the older Greek families lived like petty rulers within their own estates, holding
absolute sway over their vassals and enforcing their allegiance at least to the point of not
daring to act in opposition to whatever political views their lords might choose to adopt.
Yet the fact that an old patrician was not in sympathy with the Crown was by no means an assurance
of loyalty to Carlotta; it might simply mean that he was waiting to select one from among the
many banners that were eager to float over his happy island of Cyprus--or that a more fervent
hope possessed him of gathering to his own standard the various malcontents and of wearing,
with true Cyprian magnificence, the royal honors that he craved;--as why should he not? since
more than one of those ancient Cyprian families claimed kinship by marriage with the royal
house of Lusignan.

Thus it had been decreed by the powers behind the throne that the seat of government should
be removed to Nikosia,--the most loyal of all the cities of the realm, whose jealousy at her
loss of prestige in being supplanted in this dignity by the less important city of Famagosta
should be wisely taken into account; and great preparations were being made for the royal progress
about to take place, by which it was hoped to stimulate an increased pride in the Government
among the populace and the citizens.

Great hopes were also entertained by the Admiral Mutio di Costanzo, the Bernardini, Dama Margherita
and Madama di Thénouris that the High Court--an institution distinctively Cyprian, which had
not been held since the death of Janus, but of which a session had now been proclaimed throughout
the island--would assemble a throng of nobles with their vassals and would prove a strong appeal
to their loyalty.

The old Cyprian gentlewoman, Madama di Thénouris, under advice of the Admiral and the Council,
had held long frank talks with the Lady of the Bernardini.

"We love our gentle Queen," she said with feeling; "and we do our possible to uphold her. But
she also--she must show herself among the nobles--she must claim their loyalty. Hath she the
strength to rise above her grief and try to rule? There hath been enough of mourning for the
temper of this people; we must have action. We are like children--half-barbaric--more easily
swayed by trifles that please us--not of such sober poise as the people of Venice; but the
good Lord hath made us thus."

But Caterina was ready to do her part. "Whatever the customs of the country doth require,"
she answered without hesitation, "I shall have the strength, since it is for my people. Only,
cara Madama di Thénouris, thou and the Zia will provide what is best--I cannot think about
these things--they seem like trifles; till I grow stronger," she added timidly, in a tone of
appeal.

"Nay, beloved Lady; they are but trifles; we will spare you thought of them, that the real
matters may help the sooner to win your interest. But it will not be displeasing to your Majesty
to see your maidens about you in robes of white--to hold a fairer memory of the infant King,
in his innocence and charm, than these robes of woe?" She touched the heavy mourning folds
of the Queen's garments, as she spoke.

Caterina started in surprise; but she answered in a moment, with a little effort, "Aye--it
will be sweeter--mine also, cara Madama; since never can the grief be less. The Holy Mother,
and my figlio dilettissimo--it is enough that they know. And it is for his people!"

Yet in the loneliness of the night, after she had made her last prayer at the tomb of Janus,
and lighted the last taper with her own hands for him in the Duomo San Nicolò, and wept her
last tears before the altar where, but a few short months ago her little son had been baptized
and crowned--kneeling on the slab that bore her baby's name--the sense of desolation overpowered
her.

"Even this little comfort I must lose," she cried; "Madonna mia--Janus and my boy seemed nearer
here! They leave me nothing--nothing!"

But later in her own chamber, alone in the solemn stillness, deep in her heart an appeal that
could not be uttered because of its intensity, her strained gaze fastened on the brilliant,
star-lit skies as if she would pierce the mysteries of life and death and surprise some effluence
of spirit-love--some smile of tenderness from the angel of her little child--a strange calm
came to her--a dim perception of eternal values--of the nothingness of time and place--of the
everlastingness of any love that has been true.--Then slowly she sank upon her knees, still
looking upward, and the anguish lessened and peace and strength descended upon her soul--a
gift from the holiness of the night.

It was in such vigils, since her great sorrows had come to her, that the desolate girl-queen
had learned her life-lessons--and she was no longer afraid of their solemnity, coming thus
into closer friendship with her own soul and a more implicit faith.

"Dear Father in Heaven!" she cried. "Thou knowest it is because I love them that I leave them,
to do their life-work! and Thou wilt grant me wisdom! If but I knew--if but I knew my people's
need!"

       *       *       *       *       *

At that most perfect hour of early evening when the sun was sinking rapidly behind the mountains
in a flood of gold and crimson glory, and the air was filled with a delicious wandering breeze,
soft and refreshing after the heat of the day and laden with the perfumes of a thousand flowers,
the Queen set forth upon her journey.

She was accompanied by her full court of knights and maidens, a guard of infantry and escort
of cavalry, with many mounted nobles besides, to do her honor,--a sumptuous cavalcade of at
least two hundred horse; with such state had the Council of the Realm thought fit to decree
the royal progress. With them came forth the dignitaries of Famagosta and other nobles, as
was the custom of those days in bidding a ceremonious farewell--to journey with the royal train
a league beyond the city which the Queen was leaving to take up her residence in Nikosia.

And thus the cavalcade proceeded on its way, pausing anon, for the greetings of the villagers
who came forth to meet them and offer homage--Caterina slow-pacing on her snow-white palfrey--six
knights from among the noblest in the land in constant attendance at her bridle, giving place
continually to the new group pressing forward to claim their part of this so honorable service.

They had journeyed thus for an evening and a long day, with but the needful pauses for rest
and refreshment, when they saw before them in the distance, embowered in delicious gardens
of palms and cypresses and rich masses of bloom, the domes and minarets of the city of Nikosia--slender
and white and lace-like against the deep blue sky--and climbing the hillside, high above the
city, the turrets and crenellated walls of its far-famed citadel.

The chances of travel had often brought the Signor Bernardini and Dama Margherita together,
and there had been much friendly talk between them of things which both held dear and in which
their hopes for the quieting of the kingdom had a large share. She was flushed and eager beyond
her wont, when they first came in sight of the distant city of Nikosia, and he laid his hand
upon her bridle and lowered his voice. "Let us not hasten," he said entreatingly; "the journey
hath been so beautiful; and our bourne is all too near."

"Nay--not too near--for Her Majesty may well be weary."

"The Dama Margherita hath ever a thought for others," he answered her. "And for me?--will she
not grant me to reach the bourne I covet?"

"How may I help to that of which I know nothing?" she asked inadvertently, her thoughts being
full of the problems they had discussed touching the Queen: then suddenly lifting her eyes
and meeting his, she turned her head away in confusion.

"Then I will make confession----" he began eagerly.

"Nay; I am no priest," she answered, touching her horse with her whip.

He followed, disconcerted; but she, repenting, soon quieted her pace and turned her face to
him again, serene as of wont.

"I would fain tell thee my secret, Margherita," he pleaded.

She lacked the courage to reprove him while he lingered on her name with an accent that turned
it to music.

"Nay--if it be a secret, tell it not: for women have tongues."

"Have they also hearts?" he asked.

"Not those who yield them," she said; "but only those who hold them fast."

"Is my secret a secret, Margherita?"

"Your Excellency--a member of the Council of the Realm hath so reported it," she answered,
laughing frankly. "Who am I, that I should question his judgment?"

"Thou art thyself," he said half banteringly--half seriously, and watching to see how she would
take it. "To none other would I so defer."

"Not to the Queen?" she asked, still playfully.

But he was serious at once. "Aye--ever to the Queen, in duty bound--by kinsman's ties--by knighthood's
vows--by my honor, by her sorrows, and by my will--yet this hindereth not that there should
be one----"

"Methinks my stirrup is caught fast in the housing!" she interrupted with an exclamation of
dismay: and there was naught to do for the Bernardini but to dismount and readjust it,--she--talking
brightly the while, of many things for which at that moment he cared naught; and less, because
it was she who spoke.

But when they were riding side by side again, and the city was coming nearer, he would not
be put off for any whim of hers.

"If thou hast discovered my secret--which I would fain know--most worshipful Dama Margherita,--I
would that thou shouldst proclaim it wherever thy tongue listeth. 'Quel che Iblin è, non si
può trovar!'"

He knew that the old Cyprian proverb, "Such another as Iblin is, may not be found," was the
pride of her house, and would reach the tenderest spot in her loyal heart.

She turned to him gravely: "Dear Signor Bernardini, let it not be spoken between us," she said.
"For the Queen hath sore need of us--of our every thought and care."

"Might we not serve her better so?" he pleaded.

But she shook her head. "Thou who hast been all faith and service, counting thy life naught--thou
knowest. She in her trouble should see that we think but of her."

"Is this thy answer--most worshipful Margherita?"

Again she turned her eyes to his--serene and deep--no hint of trouble in them.

"There hath been no question," she said; "there can be no answer, where there hath been no
question."

And although he would fain have spoken further, he could not: for that brief moment in which
her eyes held his--half-commanding--wholly trusting--was like the sealing of a vow to do her
bidding.

Then as she turned away, the echo of a name floated towards him--"Aluisi!" so spoken as no
one had ever uttered it before.--Or had he surprised it, written on her soul, in that deep
gaze, which she had permitted?

       *       *       *       *       *

But now the sudden sunset glory of that Eastern clime flamed in the skies, touching the domes
and pinnacles of this city of delights with flecks of crimson and purple and molten gold, illuminating
the lovely Cyprian landscape with a never-to-be-forgotten light--and Nikosia stood forth radiant
against the background of dark environing hills, clothed to their summits with kingly cedars--while
in the far distance the sea flashed its silver setting, melting into the opal of the clouds
which seemed to rise from its breast.

Was it this fleeting radiance of color that always stirred the birds to sudden, joyous song
at the charmed hour of sunset?--that outpoured upon the heavenly breeze, for which the long
day often panted, this flood of perfume of a thousand odors? Or was it only because it was
Cyprus and for her magic beauty she had indeed been named of all the isles of Greece, "L'Isola
Fortunata," beloved of the gods?

But now from the splendid city came sounds of rejoicing--music and vivas--through the gates
thrown wide, the tramp of a multitude issuing forth to welcome their Queen, with the homage
of loyal hearts,--and her own throbbed almost to breaking. The Vice-Roy and Admiral, Mutio
di Costanzo, with his escort of Knights of the Golden Spurs came bringing the keys of the city
which had stood for the Queen against the mandates of the Council of the Realm; Stefano Caduna,
Leader of the people, stalwart and faithful, brave as a lion, with his devoted guild about
him--the judges of the courts and the chief men of the municipality; a chapter of the Knights
of St. John, in their white mantles and eight-pointed crosses of red--the new primate of Nikosia,
with all the hierarchy of his province of diverse creeds--the burghers--the nobles of the city--they
made a welcome that stirred the soul of Caterina and filled it with a hope warm as the presage
of the glowing skies.

"Viva la Regina--La ben-venuta!"

The people shouted her name; they thronged to swell the royal procession as she rode through
the garlanded streets, in regal state, under the golden canopy which they had brought to do
her honor, upheld over her fair young head by four mounted knights of the most ancient houses
of Nikosia. Before the portico of the Duomo Santa Soffia the cavalcade came to pause, while
Caterina dismounted--the people clinging about her to kiss her hand, to prove their loyalty--until
pale from emotion she left them, and passed with all her noble company under the fretted arches
of the vast portal, to offer up her orisons--her first act in this city of her adoption, a
service of faith and adoration--her first resting-place in her new home, the altar of the church
which was one in all lands.

XXXIII

For the first time since the death of Janus, the magnificent hall of the Upper Court in the
Palace of the Assizes was filled with a noble assembly of Cyprian patricians who came in state,
each with his train of vassals, who were also privileged to enter the great judgment hall and
witness the imposing ceremony of the opening of the Court. Each baron wore at the point of
his lance the small square banner with the device and color of his ancestral house and the
motto, "Cour, Coin, Justice," which was the privilege of his class, signifying that he was
entitled to receive homage and tribute from his vassals--his hommes liges and his serfs, and
to render judgment upon their minor causes.

The long arcaded corridors leading out to the court-yards of the palace were thronged with
serfs in attendance upon the knights and barons, and with citizens who had no seat of right
in the assembly; and beyond, from the court-yards, came the sound of the champing of steeds
impatient for the voice of their masters and chafing under the unwelcome restraint of their
attendants, who kept up a ceaseless babel of adjuration and coaxing.

Every noble of Cyprus in sympathy with the present Government was waiting with his vassals
and suites in splendid array to pay his homage to the young Queen, who now first since the
death of her child was to appear among them at a high function; there were others who, uncertain
or careless of their sentiments had responded to the urgent invitation of the Council of the
Realm, from no stronger motive than a mild curiosity; and possibly a few had come with a wrathful
determination to find something to condemn in the bearing of the Queen that might stimulate
an organized opposition.

Between the splendid shafts of the monoliths that rose like a Cyprian forest from the polished
marble pavement, a vast company of the hierarchy of Cyprus--Greek, Latin, and Armenian, in
rich sacerdotal vestments--were waiting to take part in the solemn ceremonial; for the royal
white-robed procession had already ascended the steps of the dias where the newly appointed
Archbishop of Nikosia would offer his prayer of consecration and receive the pledge of the
Queen faithfully to uphold the laws of the Realm.

The majestic martial music to which the procession had moved had diminished to a dim, melodic
undertone, over which the prayer of the Primate rose and fell in swift, rhythmic periods--a
litany of ascription and petition, to which the people, standing with faces towards the East
and with outstretched hands, responded full-voiced.

O Thou, God over all, great in Majesty and power, to Thee we ascribe all praise!

To Thee we ascribe all praise!

O Thou, Lord of lords and King of kings, grant to Caterina, Sovereign of this Realm, grace
and wisdom to rule her people.

Grace and wisdom to rule her people!

And grant to her, O Giver of all good, Thy benediction, with gladness!

Thy benediction, with gladness!

O Thou, Creator of Life and Immortality, Lord of the living and of the dead, grant that the
soul of thy servant Janus may rest in peace!

May rest in peace!

O Thou, Holy and Ineffable, around whose throne the pure souls of sinless little ones float
as an effluence of Thy love, grant to the soul of our infant King, Thy joy perpetual.

Thy joy perpetual!

O Thou, supreme in justice, Ruler of all rulers and Judge of all men, grant to the rulers of
this Court wisdom, that they may judge righteously!

That they may judge righteously!

Yet, O Eternal Father, Thou who art merciful, grant us to temper judgment with mercy.

Judgment with mercy!

Thou, who art Everlasting Truth, grant us to be true.

Grant us to be true!

And then, while the Archbishop was standing with hands outspread in benediction over the kneeling
throng, the music of a wonderful, rhythmic Amen, oft repeated, thrilled and throbbed from arch
to arch.

       *       *       *       *       *

How cruel the changes that had swept the island-kingdom since the last High Court had assembled
in this Council-Chamber! Their young and charming monarch, in the very exuberance of life,
had been summoned without warning to lay it down. His little child, the hope of the realm,
had come and passed as swiftly as some fair vision of the night, leaving scarcely a trace of
his short earthly career save in the heart of the mother where its every memory would be cherished
deathlessly. And for their fair young Queen, who stood among them widowed and childless--in
lieu of the fulfilment of the radiant hopes which had brought her hither, there had been a
pitiful record of conspiracy, betrayal and captivity.

These memories smote upon the nobler souls in the throng, moving them to compassion and admiration;
for what knight among them could more bravely have borne such suffering and thwarting?

But Caterina, in trailing garments glistening like the snows of Troödos, stood like a queenly
lily among her white-robed maids of honor, exalted by the solemnity of the service and looking
deep into the heart of her life-problems--ignoring self and contests--dreaming only of duty
and the achievement that her people's love might render possible.

They had feared to see her in mourning robes, with a woful court about her,--trembling, sorrow-weighted,
pitiful and unimpressive; and a low murmur of admiration just stirred the hush of the chamber
as she took her place under the royal canopy and turned to confront the great assembly--the
strength of suffering and resolve in the beautiful unsmiling face, which yet seemed to promise
and crave for love--to plead with them for their allegiance.

She stood so for a moment, quite still; then she stretched out both arms to them with a sudden
impulse.

"My people!" she said brokenly.

Her voice thrilled them, and they answered with a burst of loyalty warm enough to screen the
silence of those who took no part in the grateful chorus.

She only bowed her head in acknowledgment, struggling with her emotion: then moving a little
aside, she laid her hand upon the arm of the alabaster seat that Janus had been wont to use,--it
was filled with lilies in memory of the infant King and guarded by the group of white-clad
pages who should have been his knights. And now, as if the touch gave her courage, her voice
came clear and unwavering.

"My people!" she said again, lingering on the words as if the claim were inexpressibly dear
to her; "because ye were his people--my husband's--the King's: because ye should have been
his--my little, little son's;--because they have left me their work to do."

She paused for a moment to steady her voice, for a sudden desperate sense of loneliness and
self-pity had overpowered her as she looked into the sea of faces turned to hers and saw--with
the intense spiritual insight granted to the few in crucial moments--the conflicting emotions
with which they regarded her.

Then, as swiftly, there flashed into her recollection the memory of the scene in Venice, on
the day of her betrothal, when there had been revealed to her the sacredness of the tie possible
between a Queen and her people--a vision of the holy, surging, passionate mother-love, adequate
to all sacrifice. Surely for these days of her desolation that early vision had been granted;
and with the force of a heavenly message its memory now brought her strength.

The appeal in her eyes deepened, and the lines of her mouth grew more tender, while she held
herself firmly erect,--as one accustomed to rule,--and the tones of her voice took on the accent
of unquestioned authority.

"Dear people of Cyprus," she said quite calmly, "I need your love--that together we may rule
wisely."

She had not dreamed that ever again she should taste so dear a joy as came with the sound of
this tumultuous response to her appeal; for the hearts of the nobles had warmed to her, and
a wave of compunction and loyalty swept the assembly.

As she took her seat upon the throne and gave the signal to open the court, the light in her
face was a radiance beautiful to behold.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Bow down before the Majesty of the Law!" His Grace the Archbishop, solemnly proclaimed, while
two priests from Santa Soffia stepped forth from under the arcades, reverently carrying the
illuminated MS. of the Evangel which had been the treasure of their monastery from earliest
ages; and behind them came others of their brotherhood bearing the quaint, copper casket in
which were enshrined those revered Books of the Law known as the "Assizes of Jerusalem," and
esteemed among all the codes of the nations for their wisdom and justice.

The ancient volumes which bore this title had long since disappeared, in the destruction of
Jerusalem; and tradition, prone to assign to well-known authors of illustrious deeds many good
feats accomplished by those who remain nameless, had ascribed the compilation of this early
masterpiece of judicial wisdom to Godfrey de Bouillon. It had been sacredly kept in the church
of the Holy Sepulchre in Jerusalem and guarded by a decree ordaining that it should not be
opened except in the presence of certain high officials.

Upon the maxims of this ancient work, faithfully digested in the famous law-schools of Nikosia
by their greatest scholars, the present volume of Assizes had been founded; and among those
most largely concerned in its authorship was Joan of Iblin--the distinguished ancestor of Dama
Margherita.

Dama Margherita had never been present when the volume was opened, for like the famous code
which had preceded it, it was hedged about with solemn formalities and might not be unsealed
save in the presence of the Sovereign and four barons of the realm; and she leaned eagerly
forward as the herald, who parted the crowd before the bearers of the sacred chest reiterated
again and again the command:

     "Bow down before the Majesty of the Law!"

The little procession proceeded slowly through the intricacies of the throng, all heads bowing
as they passed, until they brought it under the dome that was raised over the dias where the
thrones were set for the Sovereigns, and where, looking upward, one might read in great golden
characters, wrought above the frieze, this admonition from the Book of the Law:

Whoever shall appear in this Court and bear false witness, be he the noblest in the land, he
shall lose his head.

The Queen, to show her reverence, had risen from her throne as they paused before her, and
descending the steps she laid her hand upon the Evangel, where His Grace the Archbishop held
open the page for her, and kneeling to kiss the venerated Book of the Assizes, she solemnly
swore to uphold the laws and statutes of Cyprus.

       *       *       *       *       *

But this day was destined to become memorable in the annals of the courts.

There had been some disputes and decrees of minor interest to be passed upon before the matter
of the recent conspiracy had been brought forward. This had absorbed the attention of the most
learned Cyprian men at law for some time past, and at this first session of the Court of Assizes,
the summing up of evidence and the closing arguments were to be laid before the tribunal and
sentence would be declared. The revelations of the trial had thus far been kept secret--but
it was known from other sources that the identity of many of those implicated had been discovered,
and an important prisoner, who was supposed to have had a large share in shaping the plot,
was to be brought into court to close her trial.

It was she, they said, who, trusted near the person of Her Majesty, having full opportunity
of access to those highest in authority and of friendly intercourse with all the ancient Cyprian
nobility, had been chosen by the chiefs of the conspiracy to receive and transmit their orders
covertly; to win converts for the scheme, wherever there might be hope of partisans, and to
protect their plans from suspicion. The charge was "High Treason," for it was whispered that
the seizure of the strongholds was but to have been a step toward the seizure of the Crown,
and this leader came of an ambitious race, than which no family of Cyprus could boast a more
ancient lineage.

In the innermost circle about the Queen, whatever the suspicions of the maids and knights might
have been, the name of this arch-offender was not even whispered: for their dear Queen herself,
with eyes that were dark with emotion, had pleaded with them.

"For love of me, seek not to know until her innocence or guilt shall be declared. If she should
be innocent--which may our Blessed Lady grant!--let us save her from dishonor in thought and name."

But one of their number had been long absent, on a visit, it had been declared, to her distant
estates; and if some who came less frequently to court, named the name of "Madama di Niuna"
over-curiously, the courtiers turned their faces from each other, lest their eyes should betray
the request of their beloved Sovereign Lady--for so had her misfortunes and her graces and
high demeanor won their loyalty.

The prisoner stood before her judges, when they led her into the Hall of the Assizes, mercifully
swathed from head to foot in the filmy silken veil usually worn by the women of Nikosia; but
through the snowy folds which concealed the features, there came the gleam of the fantastic
jewelled garb, and the lines of the pose--proudly defiant--were plainly discernible--it could
be none other than the young and beautiful and high-born Dama Ecciva de Montferrat.

The young maids of honor turned sad eyes upon each other, each seeking to touch the hand of
her nearest companion, by way of assurance, while all waited, in a stress of suspense that
was near despair.

Throughout the trial, the splendid assembly followed every phase with breathless attention,
yet with conflicting emotions,--for the prisoner was one of their peers and all felt the case
to be momentous; while, as the masterly arguments proceeded, and the evidence seemed irrefutable,
perhaps few among them could have determined how it should be most wisely decided, in view
of the waverings and discontent which had threatened to undermine the Government.

And now the judges and the learned men had withdrawn for private consultation, and the assembly
waited for the verdict in a hush through which one might have counted the heart-beats sounding
in tumultuous rhythm; but the girlish prisoner still kept her defiant attitude--tapping the
pavement impatiently with her tiny booted foot--as making light of any crime that might be
imputed to Dama Ecciva de Montferrat.

Then, more swiftly than one might tell it, a blaze of irrepressible human passion broke upon
the decorous quiet of the Chamber; the nobles sprang to their feet, struggling for expression;
for the awful announcement "Guilty," although they had awaited it, brought a sudden desperate
realization of the fearful consequences, as, almost without pause, the penalty was declared
and a piercing shriek rent the air.

"Not death!--Holy Saints--NOT DEATH!"

They could see the sinuous figure writhing and panting convulsively under her wrappings, then
tearing her veil like a frenzied woman, as she sank fainting upon the pavement; and the crowd
made way in awe-struck silence for the Lady Beata with the maidens of the court who closed
about the tortured figure in shielding ministration.

A stately patrician robed in black, fought her way through the excited throng to the steps
of the throne, and threw herself at the feet of the Queen.

"Have mercy!" she cried; "she is too young to die! Take my life for hers--she is my child!"

A messenger was crossing the chamber from the judge's throne, bearing a parchment tied in black,
a portentous seal depending from the ribbon. It was the first time that a death-warrant had
been presented for the Queen's signature, and she was visibly agitated.

The agonized mother at her feet kept up her passionate entreaties.

Caterina started up pale and trembling, holding out her hand to the kneeling figure and drawing
her forward:

"Counts and Barons of the Realm, Judges of the Court and all ye people who look to us for protection!
We have sworn before you all to uphold the laws of Cyprus--we will not fail you!" she protested.
"Yet, oh I beg you to remember that together in this Chamber we have prayed to-day that we
might temper judgment with mercy!--Let us not sign it!"

A low murmur of sympathy echoed through the assembly, half-assenting, and Caterina, perceiving
it hurried on.

"Let us rule together wisely," she besought them, "and for the honor of Cyprus! Let it not
be told that our first meeting in this noble assembly hath been darkened by a sentence of death
upon one of our own nobles! Madonna mia! Grant us to be merciful--spare the noble house of
Montferrat; let the penalty be exile!"

There was a confused murmur in the Hall of the Assizes: disjointed words punctuated the low
babel of sounds: "Exile!" "Exile with confiscation!" "Death!" "Mercy!" "Death and Confiscation."

They scarcely knew whether they prayed for death or mercy, or whether in their souls they wished
for justice or pardon, for the question was too weighty to be solved by law, since a nation's
peace might hang upon it. They knew not if they saw distinctly, for the mist that seemed to
cloud their vision--a mist enfolding two women like a halo--the one tall, black-robed, superb
in anguish, with pathetic lines of age upon her hair and brow, and in her eyes, darker than
night, such frenzy of supplication as one may only offer for a dearer than self: the other
young, tender, fair--all compassion, divine in forgiveness and comprehension--for were they
not both mothers, and had she not suffered the irreparable loss that she might learn to shield
grieving mother-hearts? She held the Countess of Montferrat closely clasped as if she would
sustain her in her trouble.

"Not confiscation!" she pleaded. "Hath not this mother enough to suffer in knowing that her
child hath missed the highest trust? Shall we add this also to her pain, and take from her
the estates which have been the home of her people for long ages? Shall she not take the vow
of fealty to the State, instead of her child? And for the Dama Ecciva--we grieve that it must
be exile--yet the safety of the Crown demandeth it. Be merciful--dear people!"

It was a woman's reason--but a woman's heart, stronger than law or precedent, had won the day.

XXXIV

"A confidential communication of deep import to Cyprus--so thou come at once, and alone. 'The
Prisoner in the Castle.'"

The Signor Aluisi Bernardini read the note a second time with frowning brows, for there was
more than one prisoner, even of this recent conspiracy, in the castle, and the hand was disguised
or unknown to him, and he could but guess at the identity of the sender of this mysterious
message, which had been brought him, quite openly, by one of the castle guards.

The man stood waiting at the door of his study, until he called to him:

"Thou hast a message for me from----?"

"The Dama Ecciva de Montferrat, Eccellentissimo," the messenger answered, readily.

"Deliver it."

"I was to remind your Excellency that the galley will sail to-morrow for Venice--if your Excellency
should have despatches--the Dama de Montferrat feared that it might not be known beyond the
castle."

"Is this known within the castle and by order of the Castellan?" Bernardini asked quickly,
in surprise.

"Eccellentissimo, the word came to me by the Dama de Montferrat, in confidence. I have no other
message."

The Bernardini pondered a moment. She had meant him to feel that the case was urgent, for no
hint of the immediate sailing of the prisoner's galley for Venetian waters had yet reached
him, who was usually foremost in any information that touched upon Venetian interests. It might
be a ruse, or a mere plausible excuse to her messenger.

"Is there aught else in which I may serve the Dama de Montferrat?" the Bernardini asked with
assumed nonchalance, partly to gain time to decide upon his own course of action, yet hoping
to throw some little light upon the mystery.

"It is written in the note. Doth your Excellency bid me return alone?"

The man's manner was insistent: he had been shown a jewel of value that should be his if he
brought the Bernardini back with him, and such fidelity as might thus be purchased, Dama Ecciva
could count upon.

"Nay: I follow," the Bernardini answered, waving him on before,--"yet not too closely. At the
castle wait for me."

"Of deep import to Cyprus," he repeated to himself, as he made his way across the breadth of
the city to the citadel: he was alone save for his horse, who often brought him a sense of
almost human companionship, and to-day the responsive quiver of the animal, as his master laid
a caressing touch upon his arched neck, gave him an assurance of fidelity that was helpful.
For the matter of this conspiracy had sorely wrought upon him and he might not ignore such
a message, though it came from one so unreliable as Dama Ecciva, for she was surely in touch
with the disaffected nobles. It might be a new conspiracy--yet it was more likely a mere whim,
or an attempt to get her sentence remitted--poor girl!

But he felt no emotion of compassion towards her, save for her duplicity, as he was conducted
to the apartment which the Queen had had prepared in the castle for her young prisoner of State.
By the Queen's grace, also, the Countess of Montferrat occupied the royal apartment under the
same roof and was permitted at certain hours, to visit her daughter, though never without surveillance.
But for one so high in authority as the Bernardini there were no restrictions and he soon stood
confronting the Dama Ecciva in a small cabinet, which by the Queen's mercy had little the aspect
of a prison; for she had thought of the mother, as she gave her orders for the prisoner's comfort,
and of the last days that she and her daughter might spend together in their native land, and
her tender heart had overflowed to them; there were even flowers from the royal gardens, and
the air was fragrant; but in Dama Ecciva's manner there was no softening change.

"So your Excellency hath even deigned to respond to the request of a prisoner?" she exclaimed
by way of greeting, and lingering with a little mocking pretense on the last word.

"If it be within my power----" he began tentatively.

"Promise not too rashly, my Lord Chamberlain, lest I hold thee to thy word," she answered lightly.
"For I shall ask naught of thee that is not within thy sole power to grant. If I ask thee aught--yet
I know not if I will:--methinks my mood hath changed."

He was dumb as he looked at her--within a few hours of perpetual banishment she stood before
him, brilliant, inconsequent, carefully dressed in her usual fanciful garb--the very jessamines
in her hair lusciously over-sweet--with no hint of regret in face or manner--her old fire-fly self.

"Our time is short, Dama Ecciva," he reminded her at length, when she had chosen a cushioned
corner and sat toying with a bunch of wild orchids--seemingly forgetful of his presence, as
of her summons. "We are alone: and if thou hast a confidence to make--'of import to the State'----"

"The time is long enough for our needs, Eccellentissimo," she retorted, with a rippling laugh.
"Verily, I like these wild blooms better than Her Majesty's choice favorites--this orchid hath
a face well-nigh human--but overwise; I scarce need tell it--as to thee--that the sailing of
the galley was my device to bring thee quickly."

He bit his lip to hold back his impatient speech, for she might not be dealt with as other
women, by any appeal to trust or reason.

"Wherefore 'quickly'," he answered her, "since there is time?"

She looked up in surprise at having missed the expected reproof for which she was already fashioning
a saucy reply, and her mood changed suddenly.

"Nay, nay, there is not time," she cried passionately, stretching out her hands to him. "There
is not time! Though it be not to-night, it may be to-morrow--who knoweth? And it is forever--forever
and ever! Caro Signore, art thou not a little sorry for me?"

She looked like a child as she made this appeal, and his heart smote him for his coldness,
for she was truly suffering. His sudden sympathy brought a new note of tenderness to his voice.

"So sorry," he said, as he took her hand in a compassionate clasp. "So sorry--that only duty
to our land of Cyprus stayeth me from seeking that thy weary penance be lightened. If I might,
I would help thee."

"Our land of Cyprus! and thou a Venetian!" she cried triumphantly, her rainbow face flashing
smiles, "and how, caro Signore--carissimo Signore--if 'duty to our land of Cyprus' should bid
thee help me?"

"It is some new intrigue of which thou hast knowledge?" he questioned, striving to hold her
thoughts in one direction.

"Is not the one for which I stand here, and which will send me hence, enough," she answered
tantalizingly, "that thou wouldst have more?"

"If it be but for whim of speech that thou hast summoned me," he said rising, knowing well
that she would yield nothing to persuasion, "I may not linger longer. If there be a way in
which I may serve thy mother, the Countess--ere I take my leave----?"

She shook her head for answer, pulling impatiently at the orchids which she had gathered up
again; they seemed akin to her--half elfin flowers.

"Or if there be some message of farewell for Her Majesty?"

Again she shook her head, in emphatic denial; but she was conscious that the Bernardini still
lingered, although he had taken a few steps away from her: and looking up she saw that he was
watching her in keen disappointment. Suddenly her cheek flamed, for his look was both compassionate
and reproachful, yet despite her anger, she thought him more than ever noble while she struggled
to repress the half-conscious feeling within her that dumbly answered to his appeal.

"She hath been merciful and forgiven much," he urged, in a tone that was still compassionate
toward Ecciva herself; "she hath suffered much because of the grief for thy mother and thyself--and
because she might not lighten the penance. Is there no little word of farewell for her?"

Dama Ecciva tossed away her flowers, and rose indignantly:

"I have a message for Her Majesty," she said in quick, hard tones. "Tell her I thank her for"--she
glanced about the chamber as if summing up its comforts and elegance--"for her flowers. Tell
her that the de Montferrats come of a noble house, well nigh as old as the Lusignans; that
of our elder branch came a queen of Cyprus. Tell her that if I know not how to thank her for
that she hath decreed banishment for a noble of our ancient house--she who hath lived in our
land of Cyprus these few years of her little life--if I lack the grace to be so good a courtier--yet
I humbly thank her for--these orchids--which might have sprung from some mouldering trunk in
a forgotten corner of my estates. They mind me of the days before she came to Cyprus."

She crushed them angrily beneath her foot as she spoke, and her words stormed upon him.

As he would have answered her, she broke in with more hot words.

"Tell her that I shall not lose my color in exile; it will not cure me of my crime of loyalty
to my people--I cannot change my faith--tell her----"

But he interrupted gravely:

"Thou dost wrong thyself and her: knowing well that thy 'crime' is not 'of loyalty to thy people';
but that thou couldst profess a loyalty which was but pretence to the Queen who held thy vows
of fealty."

She was quivering still with anger and she did not answer him.

"Speech is useless," he said, "if it be not reasonable: and none grieveth more than our gentle
Lady that the welfare of the State demandeth the exile of one who hath conspired against it.
She, of her grace, will have it that others have misled thee;--that of thine own heart thou
wouldst not have sought this treachery."

"Treachery!" her eyes flamed. "If that be treachery----Listen! I thought to send thee away
without my confidence and leave thee to thy blind struggle to rule our people of Cyprus--thou
and the fair little Queen! Yet I will tell thee, for I cannot leave thee so."

She had come nearer. "Will the nobles in their far lands bow at her bidding? Never! They need
a man to sway them, for the good of Cyprus--one who knoweth how to rule--of strength and constancy
to shape their kingdom and make it great. For such a man the nobles would rise in their might."

"There is none such," he answered coldly, "and talk of treason--except it were a maid's wild
dreaming--must be brought before the Council of the Realm. Unless thou hast confession of some
real import to the State--or names that we should know--and for the telling much might be forgiven
thee--I bid thee farewell. Truly it is hard for thee, my poor Dama Ecciva; but in thy heart
thou knowest that the penalty could not be less.--May thy reason and the years soften it to thee."

She had not listened to his last words, but stood irresolute as he took his ceremonious farewell:
then suddenly she sprang towards him and caught his hand to detain him. Her face had grown
soft and eager.

"It is 'confession'!" she cried, "'of import to the State'--and 'names' that thou shouldst
know. There are many nobles whom I could reach--I will name thee all their names when we have
spoken together: those who suffer banishment with me are but a few. At word of mine they would
kindle into fire and make a glory of Cyprus!" She had drawn herself up proudly, her eyes were
flashing; she had clenched her small hands so tightly over his that he could not withdraw it.

"Poor child!" he said compassionately; "shall one woman rule them, and not another!--It is
the madness of imprisonment and exile; it shall be forgiven thee."

He tried to make his escape, but she clung to his hand yet more closely, so that he could not
move without dragging her with him.

"It is not forgiveness that I want," she cried furiously, "but comprehension. Canst thou not
see! Have I not said that Cyprus hath need of a man to rule? Who led the people to storm the
Fortress of Famagosta? Who ruled the city in quiet through those days of stress?--Thou art
the man! Through me, who hold the key, thou shalt rule them well."

"I am a Venetian," he answered coldly; and no longer hesitating to use the needful force to
unclasp the clinging, importunate hands. "From compassion have I shown too great patience with
thy mad dreaming. I will direct that the Countess of Montferrat be permitted to come to thee
now: for the galley must soon sail for Venice.--May the Madonna help thee!"

But as he reached the door a mocking laugh rang out and made him turn in surprise, for it was
but a moment since he had instinctively averted his gaze, lest he should read too easily in
her mobile face the emotion which she made no effort to conceal.

"Let us at least part with due ceremony, your Excellency," she said, "since we shall both have
travelled to other worlds before we meet again: I--who might have been a Queen, hadst thou
but believed my 'mad dreaming' and accepted my aid to make thee--that which should have made
me thy Queen indeed, and thee a Sovereign of Cyprus!--had I but condescended so far!"

She swept him her most courtly reverence. "Adieu! Thou art a man indeed--like many another--to
let a woman outwit thee and befool thee--so that even now thou knowest not within thy soul
if she hath spoken truth,--or flattery to beguile thee; or 'mad dreaming'--for which, perforce,
she 'may be forgiven,' and render thanks! Thou knowest not whether she hath, in truth, spoken
to mislead thee that which should have brought the pride of thy superb Venice low--hadst thou
but listened!--So much hath my 'confession' availed thee. O, most astute Venetian!"

She flung the words at him in triumphant tones, while he, in noble pity, stood speechless--having
seen her face when she thought he had not seen; and she stood thus--radiant--defiant--until
there was no longer an echo of footsteps back through the long vaulted corridor of the castle.
Then the mocking smile died on her lips and eyes and she threw herself on her couch in a bitter
paroxysm of passion.

"One may dare all, for a man of stone," she cried, "and yet not win! And I would have made
him great--great beyond his dreams! O fool!--FOOL!"

XXXV

With the removal of the Court to Nikosia days of peace and sunshine had at last dawned for
the distracted island kingdom--whether compassed by the wisdom of the astute and vigilant counsellors
who sat close under the ear of the youthful Queen--by the superior force of the Venetian galleys,
or by the winning charm of the Queen herself. The echoes of conspiracy had been stilled and
the cities of Cyprus were taking new pride in their commerce, while they were growing richer
in measures of philanthropy and education and that blossoming of arts and culture which only
may adorn a court at leisure from petty wars and intrigues.

Early in these days of quiet Caterina had turned once more to her cousin the Bernardini, bidding
him ask some favor at her hand--"For verily I owe thee more than I may repay."

"There could be never a debt between us, my cousin," he answered smiling: then with the ceremonious
bow of a courtier, he added, with a singular mixture of gravity and playfulness: "I would remind
your Majesty of a function of this Court which it hath never pleased my fair cousin to exercise.
There is one among the maids of honor--most rare and noble--bounden by special vows of fealty,
as a Dama di Maridaggio, to marry at the command of her Sovereign."

He stood before her quite unabashed and smiling, while she scanned him in surprise.

"Margherita de Iblin?" she questioned, half unbelieving.

"Margherita!" he answered, radiantly; "there is no other."

"And how--if when I name the other two which custom doth demand for this ceremonial, she shall
find a knight more to her liking?" Caterina asked teasingly.

"Name one; and name him thrice," he answered boldly.

"Little I dreamed thee, Aluisi, so poor a knight that thou shouldst lack the courage to plead
thine own cause," she exclaimed in amusement. "And of what avail a gift that is not free?"

He joined frankly in her laugh.

"Nay," he said; "the case is quite otherwise. For she will not say me nay, fair Cousin, because--in
sooth some day she shall tell me why; and I count myself too leal a knight to tell it--if I
knew--before she shall bid me speak. For the cause hath been pleaded and not rejected; and
the gift hath been given, but not confessed; which, were it not thus, I should seek no aid--having
no mind to steal, were it even the heart of a maid. But now it is rather wit than 'courage'
that I lack, to outwit my lady--may those forgive me who hold her favor!"

"I will right heartily forgive thee, so but thou win it," Caterina assured him. "Yet if she
hath not said thee nay--what lackest thou of favor?"

He was suddenly grave. "She will not say me 'yea,'" he answered her, "lest the speaking of
the word which she foldeth close in her heart until she giveth her rare self leave to utter
it, should make her somewhat less to her Sovereign Lady--who, she hath most solemnly assured
me--hath need of us both--and thus--with no bond between her two loyal servitors but their
loyalty to their Queen."

"Shall mine be less because of their happiness?" Caterina questioned indignantly. "Nay, but
much less--much less, without it!--Where is the Dama Margherita?"

"Nay, fair Cousin," he protested, "let discretion rule the command, I beseech you. For she
herself is more proud than any Queen and of a temper to which surrender cometh not easily;
and the wooing hath been long. Yet the truth of her deep eyes betrayeth her,--and so I trust
my happiness in your gracious hands."

But Caterina would not rest until she had found the occasion for speech: and so soon as she
chanced to be alone with Dama Margherita, she announced, without preamble, that she would presently
command a right royal festival to please the nobles but lately come to court, with jousts of
song and floral games, "and I myself will give the prize, and thou--Cara Margherita, being
my faithful Dama di Maridaggio, shall be the Queen thereof."

But the Margherita drew herself haughtily away from the Queen's outstretched hand.

"I do not understand," she said, in a tone that was half resentful. "I am ever at your Majesty's
command for loyalty and service: but this custom displeaseth me--I pray your Majesty, let it
be dismissed."

"Nay, Margherita, it is my right;" the Queen persisted. "I would have thee choose one of three
noble knights whom I will present to thee."

"Three!" she echoed with a sensation of relief: then, after all, her secret had not been guessed:
it was truly some freak of the Queen's, and she turned more willingly to listen.

"The first is of rare nobility, whom I fain would honor in bestowing upon him the hand of one
so dear--because he hath spent himself for me, and hath held his life little when it might
serve me."

Margherita half opened her lips to speak, then closed them resolutely and held silence--a faint
flush growing in her cheek.

"The next is one of a most ancient house, of vast estates, it hath been told me, which he himself
nameth not, save for some generous use when there is need: of whom all men speak well, because
of a certain strength he hath; but women rarely, for the scorn he showeth for heartless trifling.
If he should love a woman, she need not fear to trust him."

"And if he loveth not though he were a prince among men," Margherita answered with an effort
at playful speech, "it were folly to trust his vows."

"Truly it were folly," the Queen replied, growing suddenly pensive, "and it were not easy to
know wisdom from folly in such a matter, perchance. Let us speak no more of it--though I had
a third to bring before thee."

"Then," said Margherita with unexpected docility, "an' it please your Majesty I will listen."

"Thou art so gracious that I scarce do know thee!" the Queen retorted playfully, "thou who
art wont to hold me with a wholesome fear! But for the third--now I bethink me--it were scarce
worth the telling, since it was but a word that he left with me--no more--that I would that
thou hadst seen him utter it, a simple vow--yet I know that none shall move him from it! Listen,
Margherita: 'For me there is none other.'"

"Said he no more, when he asked so much?" Dama Margherita questioned with a desperate attempt
to defer the moment of yielding.

Caterina turned and looked at her seriously.

"If he hath not the gift, already," she said, "it is much to ask. Yet, if he holdeth it, by
no constraint--but because it is for him alone and may not be withheld--however one may struggle,--need
one ask further assurance of happiness? Choose thou from these, my Margherita. They are good
knights."

"All three--or one?" Margherita asked, with deepening color and shining eyes that were her
confession and surrender. "These three are one--my Lady giveth me no choice."

"How one?" the Queen answered promptly, willing to grant her a little more time, for she saw
that it was not easy for this proud maid to yield. "For one is lofty and masterful, and of
a great prowess--so that men fear him. And one is knightly and worshipful, with a trick of
speech when it pleaseth him, so that a woman might love him if he plead with her for favor.
And one--nay, of him we will speak no more. For he hath a will that may not be denied when
he hath said, 'For me there is none other.'"

"My beloved Lady doth trifle with me," Margherita exclaimed in confusion. "She will not lay
this command upon me!"

"My Margherita--most solemnly I bid thee choose that which shall bring thee happiness. For
thy lover hath confessed himself to me."

"Is it happiness to love,--or is it pain?" the girl questioned very low.

"If sometimes it may be pain," the young Queen answered, a shadow crossing her brow; "yet even
then, methinks, one would not have missed it--so only one hath held one's own heart true: for
it discovereth depths and heights one might not know without it, and bringeth dreams that make
one's soul the fairer. But for thee, cara Margherita--it shall be all happiness--for thy knight
is true and noble like thyself; and my heart is glad that I may give thee to him."

"Since I have not chosen him--and there are three!" Margherita interposed faintly--"but if
it is of your Majesty's command----?"

"Tell me but this one thing--dost love him, Margherita?"

"If there must be confession, should not the high-priest of this sacrament be first to hear
it?" the proud maid whispered, as she knelt and kissed her Lady's hand with a sudden grace:
but the Queen knew that she might neither tease nor trifle more.

"My Margherita," she said, folding her closely; "I could dream no sweeter dream than to know
my two very dearest ones worthy of each other and happy together."

So it was not long before the Court of Nikosia was gladdened with a festival of old-time splendor,
lasting for many days--with tournaments of knights and jousts of song, and recitals of quaint
Cyprian legends and classic story, and all that their most punctilious custom might decree
for a noble's marriage feast in the days of the cinque cento.

       *       *       *       *       *

But as time slipped by in apparent tranquillity and growing prosperity, with constant evidences
of judicious thought bestowed by the Queen upon the well-being of her subjects--with the coming
and going of artists and men of letters to her court, and the resuming of all those ancient
Cyprian customs that might minister to the content of the nobles--whom it was ever most needful
to satisfy with a sufficient show of gaiety--there had nevertheless been an imperceptibly increasing
tightening of the threads of government which stretched far across the waters to Venice's own
blue Adriatic, into the very Council-Chambers of the Palazzo San Marco.

Even the moneys of Cyprus were flowing somewhat overfreely into the coffers of the Venetian
Provveditori who kept vigilant watch over the island kingdom--which was, in truth, no longer
anything but a Venetian province, except in name. Yet Caterina, while she chafed at many hampering
restrictions which she was powerless to overcome, loved her people and her work with the strength
of desperation, and struggled bravely on.

It was a relief that the petty warfare of conflicting claimants without and within her kingdom
had ceased; even the importunity from aspiring suitors came no more--since the same cold answer
was ever ready for all, alike: and to Caterina this also was a relief. For, although of her
own will she could have given but one reply, she had bitterly resented the imperative command
of the Signoria forbidding her second marriage, as an indignity assuring her that she was not
free--and each fresh importunity was a reminder of her bondage.

If the Cyprian members of the Council of the Realm also saw that the meshes of Venice were
steadily gathering more closely about them, they had no longer power of resistance against
that craftiness of the Republic which had known how to divert the moneys that should have gone
to the making of a Cyprian Marine, while tickling their love of splendor with some outward
show--yet had kept the island kingdom from appreciating this great need, by the readiness with
which full-manned Venetian galleys protected the Cyprian coasts whenever they were threatened
with devastation.

More than one letter of resistance and impotent pleading in Caterina's own hand, had gone from
this Daughter of the Republic to the Doge himself, and passed from the Serenissimo into the
secret archives of San Marco; but the very fact of the appeal was an acknowledgment of Venetian
right, and the evils steadily increased. While Caterina tried to forget that the clasp of a
velvet paw may fatally crush, when the force of an angry lion is behind it: or--if she remembered
it too cruelly in the hours of her desolate midnight vigils, what could she do but ignore the
insult, with a woman's power of endurance, that she might defer the day that should separate
her from her work and her people with whom her last dim hopes of happiness were inextricably
bound up: for to them she knew that she was still the Mother Queen--"Nostra Madonna," and the
dear title was a cure for much heart-anguish.

More than once the good Father Johannes--his hair and beard now falling in thin gray locks
about his throat and breast, but the spirit within him still gleaming fiercely from his deep
eyes--had come with painful steps down the long way from his distant Troödos to help and comfort
her.

"Daughter," he said, "for thy brave wrestling I absolve thee from thy vow. Christ and the Holy
Mother are merciful. They ask no more than man may do. If thou hast not the strength----"

"Father, without my work I have naught to live for. I have not the strength to leave it."

"Then God help thee! and the prayers of all the pilgrims to the Troödista help thee! And of
all who have tasted of thy bounty; and of all who have known thy care!"

"Unless, my Father," she interrupted painfully, "there should be one who might better hold
this trust, to whom I may yield it? If Carlotta----"

"Is she not like her Mother, the Paléologue?" the Lampadisti answered angrily. "Hath she not
plotted murder and treachery to compass her ends? Aye--even a fratricide--because forsooth
of the crime of the grace that her brother possessed? Is there a record of good deeds, that
the people should wish her back?--Did she strive to uphold the laws, or to know them?--To have
her people taught and comforted?"--his eyes blazed.

"Thou dost verily comfort me, my Father."

"For that I am sent. The Holy Relic on the altar of the Troödista seemed to point me hither,
with every Sacred Thorn. I could pray no prayers but for thee; I could hearken to no other
tales of woe. My feet turned ever thither without my will: and thus I knew that thou hadst
need of me!"

But once when he came, and she knew not that it was the last time, she said:

"I have somewhat to ask of thee, my Father."

"Say on."

"That thou wilt receive me into the Holy Sisterhood of St. Francis--as a lay sister; that if
I find the world more weary than I can bear, I may be sure of a retreat which thou my faithful
friend and spiritual Father will have prepared for me. So that the act of my admission may
be known only to thee and me and the directors of the Chapter of St. Francis, and to the Holy
Sisterhood, of which I shall be one--yet living in the world, so long as my duty shall call me."

"Thou hast deserved it by thy constancy," he said. "And may the Holy Madonna be gracious to
thee: and our blessed St. Francis sing to thy sorrowing soul sweet measures of content, by
the voices of 'his brothers, the birds of the air.'"

It was evening, and the Queen had bidden him to her summer terrace over the gardens, where
in the luxuriant shrubberies below them the birds were vying with each other in the loud-voiced
evening orisons for which the brief flame of the Cyprian sunset was ever a signal.

"The years will make of thee a poet, my Father," Caterina said, smiling at the turn of phrase
so unusual from his lips.

"It is not the years but thou, my Daughter, who hast taught me that beauty may be holy and
lift the soul."

XXXVI

An Embassy from Venice was expected upon important affairs of State, and there was an unusual
radiance in the face of the Queen, for it had been announced that the Illustrissimo, the Signor
Zorzi Cornaro, brother to Caterina, was chief of the Commission, and it was long since one
of her very own had been with her.

"Zia mia," she said eagerly to the elder Lady of the Bernardini. "Thou wilt see that no courtesy
of reception shall be omitted--it is to welcome one of my very own!"

She dwelt on the phrase with a pathetic accent of delight, returning to it again as she discussed
some details of the welcome that should be offered to her brother, whom, for years she had
not seen.

Never had an ambassador been received with higher honors in the Court of Nikosia, or with such
glad faces by all the attendant circle--for was not His Excellency of the Queen's own household?--and
it had been rare to see such a light of happiness in her beloved eyes.

And well did the Cornaro seem to carry the honors due to his house--being very noble in bearing,
as befitted the brother of the Queen; and so eloquent in speech that already before the first
day had passed, the scholarly men of the Court were exchanging glances of admiration at the
skill with which he parried their compliments; while Caterina, noting their courtesy and the
deftness with which he had won them, grew more than ever radiant, with a certain look of restfulness
and of heart-satisfaction which, since the death of the child, those who loved her had scarcely
seen her wear.

But Aluisi Bernardini grew somewhat graver than his wont, as the banquet proceeded, while he
watched his cousin, the newly-arrived Ambassador, less graciously, his lady thought, than he
need have done on this first evening when all were hastening to shower honors upon him.

"Whatever cometh," he said to his wife, as they rose at last from the brilliant tables and
passed out upon the terraces at the invitation of the Queen; "whatever cometh, leave her not
alone with him, though she should urge thee; use thy sweet insistance--as thou knowest how--to
keep others about them for this first evening."

"What meanest thou, Aluisi?" she asked in alarm, and moving quickly aside, as the gay company
swept by, that he might explain himself. "Surely she might wish to speak with him alone; she
is more happy in his presence than she hath been for years. Seest thou not?"

"Aye, my very dear one, I see it well. It is that I would hold this rare happiness for her
so long as may be; and there is that in the manner of my cousin, the Cornaro, which pleaseth
me not. I would not have him unfold to her the matter of his Embassy, if it may be a little
deferred."

"It hath been told thee, already?"

"Not more than to thee. But in all the grace of him I see his head above his heart--a certain
quality of his father, the 'Magnifico, Marco Cornaro'--as he was known in Venice. Yet one who
standeth watching, somewhat apart, may note a hint of displeasure at the splendor of his welcome
and the loyalty of the court for the Queen: and the ready wit with which he answereth concealeth
under its sparkle a certain persistent measuring of some purpose which he hath much at heart--as
if he were studying meanwhile how best to compass his end."

She laid her hand entreatingly on his arm. "For once, my Aluisi, it may be thou dost o'er-reach
thyself. Is he not her brother?"

He smiled at her, unconvinced.

"I have watched so long," he said, "and the life of our Queen-Cousin hath been so sadly thwarted
that it may well be my fear for her taketh flame too lightly. But she hath set such store upon
his coming, and with such gracious scheming for his pleasure, that if he leave her time she
may soften any hard intent. San Marco grant that I have misjudged him, for he is of our house."

"Thou hast much weight with her," the Dama Margherita answered very low. "Stay near me, that
we may guard her."

But scarcely had they reached the terraces where all the Court were scattered, than they found
the Queen pleading with her brother.

"Not to-night, Zorzi mio! For this one night let us take the pleasure of thy coming as a brother
to my home. Thou must know our customs and our people and let them offer thee glad welcome.
I have music and song planned for thee:--and our Cyprian gardens--with their delights!--Let
us stroll awhile."

He made a gesture of dissent.

"The banquet hath been long enough," he said, "nor lacking for sweets. There is meat of stronger
quality to digest. Not for feasting I came, but upon an embassy the matter of which we must
discuss."

"And now?" she asked, still unwilling.

"Said I not 'now'?" he answered resolutely, advancing toward the arches which admitted to the
palace.

But Bernardini stood in his way, arresting his quick pace.

"My cousin, thy 'now' must wait upon the Queen's good pleasure," he said, with due deference.
Then, more lightly, "It is the way of our Court in Cyprus--which would do thee honor. Her Majesty
hath ordered some festive trifle of music, or other entertainment, which our music-maidens,
skilled upon the lute, would fain begin."

At a signal from the Lady Margherita, they came floating out upon the terrace: but the Cornaro
turned frowning from them and signed with his hand that his cousin, the Bernardini, should
let him pass.

At a glance from the Queen, Bernardini moved courteously aside, but Caterina did not follow:
she waited for a moment before she spoke--as if to weigh her speech.

"If it be for matter of the Embassy which may not be delayed," she said, "I will bid our Chamberlain
advise our Council of the Realm, that we may receive it with all honor befitting the Court
of Venice, so soon as they shall be gathered in the Audience-Chamber. Though the hour be strange,
it is of thy choosing; and thou art our dear guest--as, also, our honored Ambassador from the
Republic."

The Cornaro stood for a moment as if uncertain what part to play; then, making light of it
all, he dismissed his frown and with a whimsical laugh and graceful deprecatory motions, he
turned to his sister and offered his hand to lead her in.

"Nay, nay, my sister; I spoke of no formal session of State to receive my Embassy; rather of
a friendly talk between us two, touching the matter upon which the Republic hath sent me hither--that
we may better understand each other before it be laid before the Council. With thy leave, my
cousin."

He passed with a friendly nod and some jesting word, which the Bernardini returned more gravely:

"Thou dost verily surround thyself with state, Caterina!" her brother exclaimed in a tone of
stern displeasure, when she had indicated a chamber where they might be alone, and he had carefully
assured himself that the quaint Eastern draperies concealed no guards--the while she watched
him in amazement.

"It is better for thee that there be no listeners," he said, as he placed a seat before her
and sat down, fixing her with his gaze.

"Hearken without speech until I have spoken." His tone was threatening.

She turned white and red, half starting up, but cowed by his manner, fell back into her seat again.

"Is this my brother," she asked, "or is it the Ambassador?"

"Nay; leave tragedy, Caterina; I am come to bring thee word of a great opportunity."

"For my people?--For Cyprus?" she responded with instant interest.

He laughed, a curious, unmirthful laugh.

"Aye--for 'thy people'--'for Cyprus,' verily. Listen! Thou hast it in thy power, at this moment,
to bestow a gift upon the Republic--thou who art the Daughter of Venice--that shall make thee
memorable throughout the ages."

She was taken unaware; yet suddenly the happenings of all the past years seemed to converge
in her, as their central point, binding her hand and foot so that she might not free herself:
an icy bolt shot through her: "I--I fail to understand," she answered faintly, for there was
somewhat in his look that interpreted the meaning she would fain have missed.

"Aye: it is hard to understand--that thou, who art one of our Casa Cornaro--a woman--upon whom
Venice hath bestowed such fatherly and unceasing care--should have it in thy power so to reward
the Republic, who might have seized the throne of Cyprus, without waiting for thy gift! Yet,
of her grace, the Serenissima Repubblica doth verily ask it of thee, as a favor--thou who art
Daughter to Venice. Thou mayest well find it hard to understand!"

She rose, indignantly.

"Hath the Signoria of Venice broken faith with her ally of Cyprus? Is she not content to wait
for the sovereignty of this realm until my death--knowing that by my will Venice hath been
created heir to this throne--that she should wish to deprive me now of that which hath come
to me through so great sorrow, by the will of my husband, the King?"

He watched her curiously, while the color came and went with her tumultuous emotions, and her
troubled breathing; and he changed his tone--being subtle.

"I said that the Signoria would have thanked thee for thy gift of the realm; and that the ages
should have decreed thee great honor for thy queenly giving: but it would have been more of
their courtesy than of thine. For thou dost verily hold too great a matter this little kingdom
of Cyprus--forgetting the nets that have many times been spread for thee; and the disfavor
of those Cyprian nobles who would have a man to rule over them and not a woman--young and without
power--unless Venice be her ally and defender! Even now, thou mightest have been a slave in
the land of the Turk, were it not for thy faithful upholding by the galleys of Venice, which
came between thee and the devastators. Where is the generous response of a woman who, without
them, were nothing?--I thought thee more noble!"

She was bewildered, and he had cut her to the quick.

"Nay, Zorzi: thou dost not comprehend. A Queen must first be faithful to her people."

"Aye--'to her people!'" he retorted scornfully. "And are thy people of Venice, or of Cyprus?--that
thou mayest be faithful neither to one nor to the other! Wilt thou show thy faith to Cyprus
by turning thine only helpers and defenders from thee, that thine enemies of the coasts may
have free entrance to thine unprotected harbors, while the galleys of Venice no longer waste
upon thine ingratitude their unrequited care?"

"It is not true!" she cried; "they would not thus desert me."

"It is like a woman to build a belief without foundation," he answered her--calmly, as one
who makes a study at his ease.

"And this is verily thy mission from Venice--and to me?"

"I have spoken," he said, "but the time is short: thou mayest not delay to reply--Venice hath
so decreed."

"My people love me," she pleaded, with a gasp. "I have only them to live for!"

"Thou hast only them, if thou wilt perforce give up thine own," he answered readily; "it is
of thine own choice."

"What meanest thou?" she questioned, grasping his arm in terror: "Zorzi!"

He shook off her touch and answered her unmoved. "The choice will be thine, between thy people
of Cyprus--who love thee, thou sayest--and thy people of Venice--we of the Casa Cornaro and
the Signoria, whom thou wilt offend and who have spent themselves upon thee. They will leave
thee to thine own devices, withdrawing every galley from thy Cyprian coasts."

She gave a low moan, pressing her trembling hands to her brow, as if brain-weary from perplexity;
then she turned to her brother again with the exclamation:

"How shouldst thou so utterly desert me, Zorzi--thou, and my people whom I love!"

"The mercy of the Republic is at an end," he assured her uncompromisingly, "and for the Casa
Cornaro--thou dost mistake, which seemeth easy for thee; it is rather thou who wilt disgrace
me--thy brother, with his honorable pride in his house and his most noble country. For him
and his children there will no longer be honors, nor any favor of the Senate: upon thy brother,
who doth so faithfully counsel thee and from his heart, will fall the enmity of the Republic
who hath forbidden him to fail in his mission. And what is left for a patrician who hath suffered
exile and confiscation, but death and the extinction of his house? This will be thy doing."

She sprang up, attempting to reach a silken cord that swung upon the wall near her; but Cornaro
raised his hand above her and lightly tossed it aside.

"No one shall come between us until I have thy promise: it lieth between me and thee."

"I need some one to help me," she implored; "and Aluisi is of our Casa Cornaro,--he would understand."

"Two are enough," he said,--"nay, too much; for where the matter is urgent, one sufficeth."

She sat on mutely, wrestling with her problem.

From the time that she had first known of her royal destiny, problems of rights of governments
had never been put before her in unpartisan, clear-cut lines of white and black--as right and
wrong: her judgment had been intentionally befogged by those who should have been her teachers,
until she found herself Queen by coronation and inheritance, consecrated in her right by the
awful seal of the great High-Priest Death--before whose inviolable silence questions cease,
and the scroll of the closed life is no longer searched, save with eyes that blur the lines
through overflowing mercy.

It had been easy for Venice to retain her ascendency over Caterina by intensifying her dependence,
by fostering the distinctively feminine and predominant side of her nature--by insisting upon
abnormal claims to her duty, her obedience, her love, her gratitude.

When the eyes of the Queen had finally been opened to see the danger of these claims of Venice,
it was already too late, for the freedom of her realm had been inextricably tangled in the
toils of Venice. Since then she had struggled with all her soul to govern her recalcitrant
people by the only power that she believed in or possessed--the power of love. But it was love
with little knowledge of the problems of nations or the measures needful to cope with the disaffected
nobles who were numerous enough to create an influence and who cared rather for their own pleasure,
than for any duty that they owed to enhance the unity or moral splendor of their land.

"My Husband left me Queen," she said at last, raising her troubled eyes to his. "It was by
his Will that I rule. Have I the right to yield this power?"

"POWER!"

She recoiled from the irony of the tone.

"They are my people--they love me," she persisted, "and thou canst not know how the care for
them doth fill my life. Have I the right to give them to any other?"

He laughed again. "Thou hast a veritable talent for creating problems wherewith to vex thyself,
my sister, conscience-tossed! Hath one a right to give that which he can no longer hold? Art
thou the first who could not rule, to abdicate in favor of a stronger sceptre?"

"We must ask these questions," she said struggling to be firm, "for duty is not easy to find."

"Nor fortune," he answered coldly. "And one must be wise indeed to know when 'one may grasp
it by the hair'--as thou hast the chance with this most gracious proffer of the Signoria before
thee to reject."

She turned her head away that he might not read her thoughts, while she dwelt upon the full
meaning of the cruel word he had spoken so easily--to abdicate: it meant the disgrace of rulers,
the acknowledgment of supreme weakness--unless to the greater power belonged the supreme right.

Was this supreme Right vested with Venice, that she might bow without question? The word smote
upon her like a touch of ice and her heart quailed.

Meanwhile Cornaro was watching, urging her decision with further arguments. The Signoria would
provide for her; she should retain her title; she should still be styled 'Caterina, Regina;'
she should live in royal state.--But--if she did not yield--our Lord himself in heaven would
be displeased with her, hating no sin so much for any Christian as base ingratitude;--with
much more, to which she made no answer.

And thus the night wore on.

At last she rose, weary and heart-broken.

"My brother," she said in trembling tones, "none of thine arguments move me: yet thou knowest
I should grieve if thou, because of me, shouldst suffer exile and disgrace, or thy children
be held from any honor they might win. But even for this I could not yield. Thy happiness and
mine must be as naught in this great crisis, against the welfare of my people. Them only I
must consider."

A torrent of imprecation rose to his lips, but he left it unuttered. For as he turned his angry
glance upon her and saw her face pallid and distraught by the anguish of her struggle, with
the strange gleam of unearthly strength in her sorrowing eyes--it would have seemed like cursing
a spirit. He crossed himself unconsciously, drawing a little apart from her, and waited impatiently.

There was a motion of her lips, as if she had more to say: but her strength was spent, so that
her voice would not come with her first effort. Cornaro was conscious as he watched her of
his fear lest it should fail her utterly before she found her speech. He knew what he had to
expect if he did not succeed in his mission, and for him the moment was crucial; others, for
a far less bitter thwarting of the will of the Signoria, had suffered death--which had been
hinted to him. He had meant to offer this as his supreme argument when all others had failed
to coerce her: but instinctively he held it back, fearing to anger her to the point of stubborn
refusal, for there was some unexpected power of resistance within the soul of this slight woman.

Just as he was beginning to assure himself that, at all costs he must use further persuasion,
her voice came--far away and colorless:

"And if I yield----?"

He went nearer, almost abject in the joy of this sudden reaction, promising her with glowing
visions, state, glory, luxury, honor, favor of the Senate, ease, everything that his vivid
imagination could seize upon to tempt the fancy of a woman; but she waved her hand impatiently
to arrest his quick flow of words.

"Not for myself--but for my people--what for them?"

"Everything!" he answered undaunted; "security, prosperity; they shall be ruled as Venice rules
her provinces--ever more wisely than the people rule themselves. Thou knowest that, because
of this, foreign States have come to plead that Venice would accept their submission."

She knew that this was true; but her heart was like lead within her as she raised her impotent
clasped hands with a sudden, sharp cry of pain. "My God! my God! I am not faithless to my vow--Thou
knowest. I must choose their welfare, though my heart should break!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As the Cornaro gave his hand to lead her to her chamber in the light of the early dawn, she
turned to him pitifully imploring his comprehension of her motive: "The Holy Mother knoweth
that I am not faithless to my people--since with the favor of the Republic turned from me,
I might neither serve nor guard them.--My lot is bitter!"

But the day had dawned for him, if not for her. "Nay; trust me, sweet Sister and Queen, thou
hast chosen wisely," he answered with easy gallantry, as he kissed her hand and would have
left her where the Lady Margherita stood waiting with troubled eyes and heightened color to
receive her--scarcely condescending to notice the Cornaro's homage or his gay, parting words--"your
fair Queen hath done this night an act that shall send her name down through coming ages, wreathed
with glory."

For words came easily to him, and he had been too well content with his own triumph and escape
to weigh the effect of its cost upon Caterina. But now, after the mockery of his conventional
salutation--which none knew better than he to make an expression of profound deference--as
he turned his bright gaze upon her, the strained pallor of her face with its deep lines of
suffering smote upon him, and he addressed Dama Margherita again with some assumption of concern
for his sister's welfare.

"I fear she is overwearied; but the long discussion upon business of the Senate hath been needful.
Yet now there is only rest before her, and I may leave her, in confidence, in your gracious care."

But the Lady Margherita had turned impatiently from him to busy herself with the Queen before
he had finished his speech; then she flashed him a glance which he found it hard to meet.

"We who love her need not your counsel, my Lord, to strive to undo your 'doing of this night.
These are the apartments of Her Majesty. We need to be alone."

XXXVII

Was Venice insatiable in requirement?

"It is enough," Caterina pleaded impotently. "Venice cannot ask more!"

"Nay, it is little," the Cornaro answered, "and only that which shall bring thee further honor.
The Provveditori will charge themselves with the details of the Royal progress--as the Signoria
hath directed."

"Let me but sign the parchment, as it may please them," she urged, "for the last time with
the Royal Seal of Cyprus--but spare me more! I would fain withdraw into the Holy House of St.
Francis and be at rest."

But this might by no means be permitted; and the Ambassador of the Republic was ready with
his threadbare argument of ingratitude, with much other reasoning of which he was scarcely
less proud.

"One giveth not a regal gift with the downcast air of compulsion--else were it base in him
who receiveth. Bethink thee ever of thine honor and of that of Venice," he admonished his sister
many times during the weeks of preparation that followed upon the Queen's decision; whatever
the detail under consideration--and few escaped his vigilance--he was inflexible, and her opposition
could not go beyond his announcement: "It is the will of Venice."

