The provision wagons were filled to overflowing with all sorts of supplies. There were farming
implements, to be used in tilling the land in that new country to which they were going, and
a bountiful supply of seeds. Besides these farm supplies, there were bolts of cotton prints
and flannel for dresses and shirts, also gay handkerchiefs, beads, and other trinkets to be
used for barter with the Indians. More important still, carefully stowed away was a store of
fine laces, rich silks and velvets, muslins and brocades, to be exchanged for Mexican land-grants.
The family wagon, too, had been fitted up with every kind of commodity, including a cooking-stove,
with its smoke-stack carried out through the canvas roof of the wagon, and a looking-glass
which Mrs. Reed's friends had hung on the canvas wall opposite the wagon door--"so you will
not forget to keep your good looks, they said!"

And now the party was ready to start. Among its number were Mrs. Reed and her husband, with
little Patty, the two small boys, James and Thomas, and the older daughter, Virginia; the Donners,
George and Jacob, with their wives and children; Milton Elliott, driver of the Reed family
wagon, who had worked for years in Mr. Reed's big sawmill; Eliza Baylis, the Reeds' domestic,
with her brother and a number of other young men, some of them drivers, others merely going
for adventure. In all, on that lovely April morning, it was a group of thirty-one persons around
whom friends and relatives clustered for last words and glimpses, and it was a sad moment for
all. Mrs. Reed broke down when she realized that the moment of parting had really come, while
Mr. Reed, in response to the good wishes showered on him, silently gripped hand after hand,
then he hurried into the house with Milt Elliott, and presently came out carrying Grandma,
at the sight of whom her friends cheered lustily. She waved her thin hand in response as she
was lifted gently into the wagon and placed on a large feather-bed, where she was propped up
with pillows and declared herself to be perfectly comfortable.

And indeed her resting-place was very much like a room, for the wagon had been built with its
entrance at the side, like an old-fashioned stage-coach, and from the door one stepped into
a small square room. At the right and left were spring seats with high backs, which were comfortable
for riding, and over the wheels for the length of the wagon, a wide board had been placed,
making what Virginia called a "really truly second story" on which beds were made up. Under
this "second story" were roomy compartments in which were stowed away stout bags holding the
clothing of the party, each bag plainly marked with a name. There was also a full supply of
medicines, with lint and bandages for an emergency, and Mr. Reed had provided a good library
of standard books, not only to read during the journey, but knowing they could not be bought
in the new West. Altogether, from provision wagon to family caravan, there was a complete equipment
for every need, and yet when they arrived in California, as one of the party said, "We were
almost destitute of everything!"

The wagons were loaded, Grandma was safely stowed away in her warm bed, with little Patty sitting
on its end where she could hold back the door flap that the old lady might have a last glimpse
of her old home--the hard farewells had been said, and now Mr. Reed called in as cheery a voice
as he could command, "All aboard!"

Milton Elliott cracked his whip, and the long line of prairie-wagons, horses and cattle started.
Then came a happy surprise. Into saddles and vehicles sprang more than a score of friends and
relatives who were going to follow the party to their first night's encampment, while many
of Virginia's schoolmates ran at the side of the wagon through the principal streets of the
town until one by one they dropped back from fatigue, Virginia waving a continued farewell
from the wagon while they were in sight.

The first day's trip was not a long one, as it was thought wise to make the start easy for
man and beast. Most of the way Virginia rode on Billy, sometimes beside the wagon, then again
galloping ahead with her father. A bridge was seen in the distance, and Patty and the boys
cried out to Milton, "Please stop, and let us get out and walk over it; the oxen may not take
us across safely!" Milt threw back his head and roared with laughter at such an idea, but he
halted to humor them, then with a skilful use of his loud-voiced "Gee! and Haw!" made the huge
beasts obey his will.

On the line of great wagons wound its way beyond the town, until the sun was sinking in the
west, when they stopped for the night on the ground where the Illinois State House now stands.
The oxen were then unhitched and the wagons drawn up in a hollow circle or "corral," within
the protection of which cattle and horses were set free for the night, while outside the corral
a huge camp-fire soon blazed, around which the party gathered for their first evening meal
together, and their last one with those friends who had come thus far on their way with them.
It was a determinedly merry group around the fire, and stories were told and songs sung, which
to the radiant Virginia were a foretaste of such coming adventure as was beyond her wildest dreams.

As she sat in the glow of the camp-fire, with sleepy Patty's head pillowed on her lap, she
felt even more than before the thrill of this wonderful adventuring. To keep a record of her
travels,--that was the thing to do! Full of the idea, she pinned together sheets of wrapping-paper
into a bulky blank-book, on the outside of which she printed:

     Going to California. 1846.

From that time she kept a faithful though not a continuous record of the experiences of what
came to be known later as "the ill-fated Donner party of martyr pioneers." And from that record
she later wrote her story of their journeying to the golden West.

By the eleventh day of May the band of emigrants had reached the town of Independence, Missouri,
and Virginia's record says:

"Men and beasts are in fine condition. There is nothing in all the world so fascinating as
to travel by day in the warm sunshine and to camp by night under the stars. Here we are just
outside the most bustling town I ever saw and it is good news to find a large number of inhabitants
with their wagons, ready to cross the prairie with us. Who knows, perhaps some new friendships
will be made as we all go on together! They all seem to feel as eager to go as we are, and
everybody is glad. I will get acquainted with as many as I can now, and bring cheerful ones
to visit Grandma, for she feels rather homesick, except when Patty and I make her laugh."

Again, "The first few days of travel through the Territory of Kansas were lovely. The flowers
were so bright and there were so many birds singing. Each day father and I would ride ahead
to find a place to camp that night. Sometimes when we galloped back we would find the wagons
halting at a creek, while washing was done or the young people took a swim. Mother and I always
did our wash at night, and spread it on the bushes to dry. All this is such a peaceful recital
that I began to think I need not keep a diary at all, till one hot day when I was in the wagon
helping Patty cut out some doll's dresses, Jim came running up to the wagon, terribly excited
and crying out:

"'Indians, Virginia! Come and see! They have to take us across the river!' Out he rushed and
I after him, with every story Grandma ever told us dancing through my brain. Now there was
going to be an adventure! But there wasn't. We had reached the Caw River, where there were
Indians to ferry us across. They were real and red and terrifying, but I never flinched. If
they brought out tomahawks in midstream, I would be as brave as a pioneer's daughter should
be. But would you believe me, those Indians were as tame as pet canaries, and just shot us
across the river without glancing at us, and held out their big hands with a grunt, for the
coins! That was one of the greatest disappointments of my life."

All went well with the travelers during those first weeks of the trip, and no one enjoyed it
more than Grandma Keyes after she got over being homesick. But when they reached the Big Blue
river, it was so swollen that they had to lie by and wait for it to go down, or make rafts
to cross it on. As soon as they stopped traveling Grandma began to fail, and on the 29th of
May, with scarcely any pain, she died. Virginia's diary says: "It was hard to comfort mother
until I persuaded her that to die out in that lovely country, and with most of your family
around you, was far better than living longer at home. Besides, she might have died in Springfield.
So mother cheered up a little, while all the party helped us in making the sad preparations.
A coffin was made from a cotton-wood tree, and a young man from home found a gray stone slab
and cut Grandma's name, birthplace, and age on it. A minister of the party made a simple address,
and with the sunlight filtering through the trees we buried her under an oak-tree and covered
the grave with wild flowers. Then we had to go on our way and leave dear Grandma in the vast
wilderness, which was so hard for mother that for many days I did not take my rides on Billy,
but just stayed with her. But the landscape was so comfortingly beautiful that at last she
cheered up and began to feel that Grandma was not left alone in the forest, but was with God.
Strange to say, that grave in the woods has never been disturbed; around it grew up the city
of Manhattan, Kansas, and there it is in the city cemetery of to-day."

The river did not go down, as the men had hoped, so they began to cut down trees and split
them into twenty-five-foot logs which were hollowed out and joined together by cross timbers,
these were firmly lashed to stakes driven into the bank, and ropes were tied to each end to
pull the rafts back and forth across the river. It was no easy matter to get the heavy wagons
down the steep bank to the rafts, and they had to be held back by the ropes and let down slowly
so the wheels would run into the hollowed logs. The women and children stayed in the wagons,
and talked and laughed gaily, that they might not show the fear they felt as they balanced
above the swollen river. But it was crossed safely and then on the oxen jogged over a rough
road until the great Valley of the Platte was reached, where the road was good and the country
beautiful beyond expression. Virginia says: "Our party was now so large that there was a line
of forty wagons winding its way like a serpent through the valley. There was no danger of any
kind, and each day was happier than the one before. How I enjoyed galloping over the plains
on Billy!" she exclaims, adding, "At night we young folks would sit around the camp-fire, chatting
merrily, and often a song would be heard, or some clever dancer would give us a barn-door jig
on the hind gate of a wagon!"

The caravan wound its slow way westward, making from fifteen to twenty miles a day, and always
at night, when the party camped, a corral was formed to protect the cattle from thieving Indians,
who, says Virginia, sadly, "are not like grandma's Indians. They treat us kindly except for
taking our things, which is annoying but not terrifying." And she adds, "We have fine fare
for those who like to eat game, as we have so many good riflemen in the party who are always
bringing it in." She then confesses, "I certainly never thought I would be relishing antelope
and buffalo steaks, but they are good food when one has grown used to them. Often I ride with
father in a buffalo hunt, which is very thrilling. We all help Eliza, who has turned into a
fine camp cook. As soon as we reach the place where we are to spend the night all hands get
to work, and, my, but things taste good when that meal is ready! When we drove into the South
Fork of the Platte, Eliza had the cream ready to churn, and while we were fording the stream
she worked so hard that she turned out several pounds of butter."

The diary gives quite a long narrative here as follows:

"By the Fourth of July we were near Fort Laramie in Dakota, and what a sight I saw as we approached
the fort. They did not seem to notice us as we drove up to the strongly fortified walls around
the buildings of the American Fur Company, but by the time we were ready to leave, the red
men and their squaws were pressing close to the wagons to take trinkets which we had ready
for them. Little Patty stood by me and every now and then she squeezed my arm and cried, 'Look!
Look!' as the Indians crowded around us. Many of the squaws and papooses were gorgeous in white
doeskin suits gaily trimmed with beads, and were very different from us in our linsey dresses
and sunbonnets.

"As soon as father met the manager of the Fur Company, he advised us to go right on as soon
as we could, because he said the Sioux were on the war-path, going to fight the Crows or Blackfeet,
and their march would be through the country which we had to cross, and they might treat us
badly, or rob us, as they were in an ugly humor. This greatly frightened some of the women,
and to calm them the men cleaned and loaded their rifles and did everything they could to hurry
away from the fort. We were there only four days, and when we drove away we met the mounted
Indians, about three hundred of them, tomahawks, war-paint, and all! They looked very handsome
and impressive as they advanced in a stately procession, two abreast, and rode on before our
train, then halted and opened ranks. As our wagons passed between their lines they took green
twigs from between their teeth and tossed them to us in token of friendship. Then, having shown
their good faith, they crowded around our wagons and showed great curiosity at the funny little
smoke-stack sticking through the top of our family wagon. A brave caught a glimpse of his war-paint
and feathers in our looking-glass, which hung opposite the door, and he was fascinated. Beckoning
to his comrades, he pointed to it, and to the strange reflection of himself, and they all fairly
pushed to the front, to see themselves, in the glass. Unfortunately at that time I rode up
on Billy, and at once the Indians forgot everything except their admiration of my pony. They
swarmed around me, grunting, nodding, and gesturing, and brought buffalo robes and tanned buckskin,
also pretty beaded moccasins and robes made of grass, and signed to me that they would give
all these in exchange for Billy. I shook my head as hard as I could shake it, but they were
determined to have Billy. They made signs that they would give their ponies for mine, but again
I shook my head. They talked together awhile, then one of them triumphantly brought me an old
coat which had evidently belonged to a soldier, and seemed much surprised that its brass buttons
were not enough of an inducement to make me give up the coveted prize. Though both father and
I continued to refuse their request as positively as ever, they still swarmed around us and
looked at me in a most embarrassing way. I did not mind much, but father seemed angry and he
said, sternly: 'Virginia, you dismount at once and let one of the men take Billy. Get into
the wagon now.' When father spoke in that way I was never slow to obey, so I climbed into the
wagon, and, being anxious to get a better look at the Indians, I took a field-glass out of
the rack where it hung and put it to my eyes. The glass clicked as I took it from the rack
and like a flash the Indians wheeled their ponies and scattered, taking the noise for the click
of firearms. I turned to mother and laughed.

"'You see you need not be afraid, mother dear,' I said; 'I can fight the whole Sioux tribe
with a spy-glass! If they come near the wagon again just watch me take it up and see them run!'" 

"what is there the rest?"

"a folk, and have this route, and over taking back another trail!"

"and all the quarter?"

"the trouble of taking to which Democracy!"

"there is not have been the spirits at slumber?"

"not to bring the gloom. By hall were called of declaration i was to have strongly us doubted its
feeling, and, to jealousy was said on myself, and her roll of Encamp.

As i appear at discussion and this statement, and i would not still there was not the steadiness, which
saved me were the square." us will quickly doubt we had to meet us,
"we state us will shorten," you take our trip and better delicious
and extraordinary miles.

But have i have been fallen back by the, who had such concentration were said for Paris, to mr breaks
for you; and fear no message is the command. "Us traveled so they darted then. All all are by one
cut; to department they is quickly is not be across river."

All still was able; the lights were grown off galleries, and be for direction, the more of
taking, who was comfortably. The admass be taken in silence were the point, and had the route,
were lounging: for municipality. While i said it were possible to take
us to advise of aura whether this fort who was opened, while i wandered
in Sandy, and in Camp had national miles, when an approach tumultuousness
at July; and all to rest was fine merits as object had been scattered
over saying up syllable. The period was known, and would not have once
meet the spot was a risk for impossible and smack pike. I reached
back to talk; mordecai families. I learn this vagrant of our parties,
nor would not take road of process pressure; comfortably have to
put where him had beneath inquiring, which, of her put, there reached
this road off high and had so resolution.


"While the men went off to try to find Hastings, we encamped and waited for them to come back.
In five days father came alone, having become separated from his companions, who he feared
might have been lost. They had met Hastings, but he had refused to leave his party for their
sake. Finally, however, father had insisted that he go with them to a high peak of the Wahsatch
Mountains and from there point out to them the direction our party ought to take. Coming down
from the peak, father lost sight of Stanton and Pike and was forced to come on alone, taking
notes and blazing trees to help him in retracing his path when he should have us to guide.
Searchers were at once sent out after the lost men, while we broke camp and started on our
risky journey. It was easy enough traveling at first, but the following day we were brought
to a sudden stop by a patch of dense woodland which it took a whole day's chopping to open
up enough for our wagons to pass through. From there we chopped and pushed our way through
what seemed an impassable wilderness of high peaks and rock-bound cañons, and then faced a
great rough gulch. Believing it would lead out to the valley, our men again set to work vigorously,
and for six long days they chopped until they were almost exhausted. Then a new party of emigrants
caught up with us and, aided by three fresh men, the eight-mile road through the gulch was
finished. It did not lead to the opening we had expected, but into a pretty mountain dell,
but we were happy, because we found the searchers there with Mr. Stanton and Mr. Pike. They
reported that we must go back on the newly made road and cross a more distant range of mountains
in order to strike the trail to the valley. That was a moment of terror, even to the most courageous
of our valiant band, but everyone forced a smile and a cheerful word as we started to retrace
our way. We had five days more of traveling and road-making, and climbed a mountain so steep
that six yoke of oxen had to pull each wagon up the steep ascent.

"While we rested we took an inventory of our provisions, and found the supply was not sufficient
to last until we should reach California. Here was a predicament! Mr. Donner called for volunteers
to ride ahead on horseback to Sutter's Fort, to tell of our sorry plight and ask Captain Sutter
to send back provisions by them for us, as we traveled toward them. Mr. Stanton and Mr. McCutchen
said they would go to the fort, and rode away on their errand of mercy.

"Our wagons, meanwhile, wound their slow way along, far behind the horsemen, who were soon
out of our sight, and two days later we found a lovely green valley where there were twenty
wells of clear, sparkling water to cool our parched throats, which were only used to the alkaline
pools from which we had been obliged to drink. Close beside the largest well we found a rough
board, stuck in the ground with strips of white paper pinned to it, and around the board pieces
of the paper were strewn on the turf, as if they had been torn off the board. 'There has been
some message written on that paper. We must piece the bits together,' declared Mrs. Donner.
No sooner said than done. Laying the board on her lap, she began to patch the scraps together,
while we eagerly watched her. In fact, it would be such a strain on our cattle that we remained
where we were, with the fine water to drink and good pasturage for three days. Then we filled
our water casks, made all other preparations for the forty-mile drive, and started off again.
We traveled for two days and nights, suffering from heat and thirst by day and from bitter
cold by night. At the end of the second day we still saw the vast desert ahead of us as far
as we could look. There was no more fodder for our cattle, our water-casks were empty, and
the burning rays of the sun scorched us with pitiless and overpowering heat. Father rode on
ahead in search of water, and scarcely had he left us than our beasts began to drop from exhaustion
and thirst. Their drivers instantly unhitched them and drove them ahead, hoping to meet father
and find wells where the thirsty beasts could be refreshed. They did find father and he showed
them the way to wells he had found where the beasts could drink, then he traveled back to us,
reaching our camp at dawn. We waited all that day in the desert, with the sun beating down
on us with cruel heat, and still drivers and cattle had not come back. It was a desperate plight,
for another night without water would mean death. We must set out on foot and try to reach
some of the other wagons, whose owners had gone ahead." Virginia adds, "Never shall I forget
that night, when we walked mile after mile in the darkness, every step seeming to be the very
last we could take, each of us who were older and stronger, taking turns in carrying the younger
children. Suddenly out of the black night came a swift, rushing noise of one of the young steers,
who was crazed by thirst and rushing madly toward us. Father snatched up little Patty, and
commanded the rest of us to keep close to his side, while he drew his pistol. We could hear
the heavy snorting of the maddened beast, when he turned and dashed off into the darkness,
leaving us weak and shivering with fright and relief. And still we were obliged to drag our
weary feet on, for ten long miles, when we reached the Jacob Donner wagons. The family were
all asleep inside, so we lay down on the ground under the protecting shadow of the family wagon.
A bitter wind was howling across the desert, and it so chilled us that we crept close together,
and if all five of our dogs had not snuggled up close to us, warming us with the heat from
their big bodies, we would probably had died from cold.

"At dawn father rushed off to find his cattle, but in vain. He met the drivers, who told him
that as the frenzied beasts were being driven toward the wells, they had broken loose and been
lost in the darkness. At once all the men of the company turned out to help father to search
for them, but none were ever found except one ox and a cow, and in that plight we were left
stranded on the desert, eight hundred miles from California! To turn back to Fort Bridger was
an impossibility--to go forward meant such hardship as blanched even my sun-reddened cheeks,
and I shuddered at the thought that mother must live through greater privations than those
we had already encountered. Well it was that the future was hidden from our eyes on that day
in the desert!

"Two oxen were loaned father, which, yoked together with our one cow and ox, would draw one
wagon, but not the family one, which had grown to be so home-like to us in our journeyings.
It was decided to dig a trench, and cache all of our things except those which we could take
in the one wagon. A cache is made by digging a hole in the ground and sinking in it the bed
of a wagon, in which articles are packed; the hole is then covered with boards and earth, so
they are completely hidden, and when we buried ours we hoped some day to return and take them
away."

Having cached so many of their treasures, on the party went as bravely as possible until they
reached Gravelly Ford on the Humboldt, where on the 5th of October there was such a tragic
occurrence that Virginia says, "I grew up into a woman in a night, and life was never the same
again, although for the sake of mother and the children I hid my feelings as well as I could."

Here her record is detailed, and as concise as possible. She writes:

"I will tell it as clearly and quickly as I can. We had reached a short sandy hill, and as
the oxen were all tired, it was the custom at such places for the drivers to double up teams
and help one another up the hill. A driver named Snyder, for some unaccountable reason, decided
to go up alone. His oxen could not pull their load, and Snyder, angry at them, began to beat
them. Father, who had gone on ahead, looking for the best road, came back, and in trying to
make Snyder stop abusing his beasts, roused his anger to the point of frenzy. Father said,
'We can settle this, John, when we get up the hill.' 'No,' said Snyder. 'We will settle it
now!' and, jumping on the tongue of his wagon, he struck father a hard blow over the head with
his heavy whip-stock. One blow followed another, and father was stunned, as well as blinded
by the blood streaming down from the gashes in his head. The whip was about to drop again when
mother sprang between the two men. Father saw the uplifted whip and had only time to cry 'John!
John!' when down came the blow on mother's head. Quick as a flash father's hunting-knife was
out and Snyder fell, mortally wounded, and fifteen minutes later died. Then father realized,
too late, what he had done. Dashing the blood from his eyes, he knelt over the dying man, who
had been his friend, with remorse and agony in his expression.

"Camp was pitched at once, our wagon being some distance from the others, and father, whose
head was badly cut, came to me.

"'Daughter,' he asked, 'do you think you can dress these wounds in my head? Your mother is
not able and they must be attended to.' I said, promptly: 'Yes, if you will tell me what to
do.' Then we went into the wagon, where we would not be disturbed, and I washed and dressed
his wounds as best I could. When I had done what he told me to do, I burst out crying, and
father clasped me in his arms, saying: 'I should not have asked so much of you!' I told him
it was pity for him that made me cry. Then he talked to me quietly until I had controlled my
feelings and was able to go back to the tent where mother was lying, weak and dazed by the
happenings of the day. And there were worse things to come. In our party there was a man who
had been in the habit of beating his wife until father told him he must either stop it or measures
would be taken to make him. He did not dare abuse her again, but he hated father from that
time, and now he had his chance for revenge. After Snyder had been buried, and father had sadly
watched the last clod of earth piled on the grave, the men of the party held a conference from
which our family were excluded. We waited a short distance away, in terrified suspense to know
the outcome of it, as we were sure it concerned father. And it did. His plea of self-defense
was not acceptable to them, they said, and we shivered as we saw such bitterness on the men's
faces as seemed sure would lead to lynching. Father saw it, but he was no coward. Baring his
neck, he stepped forward, and proudly said, 'Come on, gentlemen!' No one moved, and presently
he was told that he must leave the party, an exile--must go out in the wilderness alone without
food or weapons. It was a cruel sentence, for it might result either in starvation or in murder
by the Indians, and it is no wonder that mother was beside herself with fright, that we children
knew not what to do or where to turn for help. Father heard the sentence in silence, then facing
the group of old-time friends, with brave eyes, he said: 'I will not go. My act was one of
self-defense, and as such is justified before God and man.'

"Meanwhile, my mother had been thinking, as she told me later, and she begged father to accept
the sentence and leave the party, thinking it would be less dangerous than to remain among
men who had become his enemies. He firmly refused until she pleaded that the whole party were
now practically destitute of food, and if he remained, as an outcast, he would be obliged to
see his children starve, while by going he might be able to meet them with food which he had
procured somewhere. After a fearful struggle with his own desires, father consented, but not
until the men of the party had promised to care for his innocent wife and children. Then, after
he had held mother in his arms for a long agonized moment, he turned to me, and I forced my
eyes to meet his with such fearless trust that he looked less despairing as he picked up Patty
for a last hug and gripped the boys with an emotion too deep for any words; then he went off,
an exile in the desert.

"I had no idea what I was going to do about it, but I knew I must do something. Through the
long hours of the day, while I was busy soothing and comforting mother, who felt it keenly
that we were left as much alone as if we were lepers, I was thinking busily. Our wagon was
drawn up apart from the others, and we ate our scanty evening meal in silence. Milt Elliott
and some others tried to talk with us, and show their friendliness, but mother would only answer
in monosyllables and commanded the children to do the same. We were an utterly desolate, frightened
group as darkness fell over us. I was busy helping the children get to bed, and then I found
mother in such a state of collapse that I could think of nothing but comforting and quieting her.

"At last she fell asleep, and I crept to my bed, but I could not sleep. I must act. At last,
I made a decision. I was strong and fearless, and father had no food or light or supplies,
out there alone in the trackless wilderness. I stole to my mother's side and she roused at
my light touch.

"'Mother, dear,' I whispered, 'I am going out to find father and take him some food, and his
gun, and ammunition.' She roused and exclaimed:

"'What do you mean, child? You cannot find your father!'

"'I'm not going alone,' I replied 'I've asked Milt and he says he'll go with me.'

"Without giving her a chance to say I must not go, I hurried to the supply-chest and found
some crackers, a small piece of bacon, some coffee and sugar. I took a tin cup, too, and a
dipper for father to make coffee in, and packed his gun, pistols, and ammunition with them.
His lantern was on the shelf, and I put a fresh piece of candle in it and matches in my pocket--then
I was ready to start.

"Everything had to be done very quickly and quietly, for there would be a great risk if the
children knew what I was going to do, or if any others of the party discovered my intention.
So I did everything on tip-toe, and holding my breath for fear of being discovered.

"Mother called, 'Virginia!' and I went to her side. 'How will you find him in the darkness?'

"'I shall look for his horse's tracks and follow them,' I whispered. At that moment Milton's
cautious step was heard at the side of the wagon, and with a last hug mother released me, and
Milt and I stole off on our dangerous expedition.

"Out into the darkness we crept. Stealthily we hid in the shadows cast by the wagons in the
flickering light of the dying camp-fire--cautiously we stole up behind the unsuspicious sentinel
who was wearily tramping back and forth, and we held our breath for fright as he suddenly looked
over the sleeping camp, then peered out into the mysterious darkness of the desert, but he
did not see us. For safety we lay down on the ground, and silently dragged our bodies along
until we were well out of his sight and hearing; then we pushed our feet along without lifting
them, to be sure they did not fall into some unseen hole or trap, and now and again we were
startled by some noise that to our excited senses seemed to mean that a wild animal was near
us. My eyes had been searching the darkness around and before us, and at last I whispered:

"'Stop, Milt. Let us light the lantern!'

"Then stooping down, I spread out my skirts so that not the slightest flash of a match or gleam
of light could be seen by the sentinel or by any one in the encampment. Milton lighted the
lantern. I took it in one hand, and with the other held my skirts up in such a way as to shield
its beams, and in its feeble light I searched the ground still frantically for some trace of
the footprints of father's horse. Although I was nervous and excited enough to fly on the wings
of lightning, I did not let the feeling get the better of me, but made a deliberate search
of every inch of ground, making a complete circle around the outskirts of the camp, for I was
determined to find those tracks. At last! There they were, unmistakable and clear. I gave a
smothered cry and showed them to Milt. Then, still with the lantern carefully covered, so that
no unguarded flash might bring a death-dealing shot from the sentinel's rifle, I followed where
they led, Milt close behind, carrying the gun and provisions. Mile after mile we followed--followed,
now seeing the tracks, now losing them. Oh what an agony was compressed in those awful hours!

"Suddenly on the midnight air came the wild howl of coyotes. From the distance echoed an even
more hideous cry--that of the panther, seeking for prey. At that sound Milton's hair literally
stood on end, and if I had shown one sign of weakening he would gladly have given up the search.
But I went on, closing my ears to the dreaded sounds. All of a sudden my heart beat so wildly
that I was obliged to press my hand over it to quiet its hammering. What I heard or saw or
felt I can never explain, but I know that all the terror of my thirteen years of life seemed
to be condensed into one moment of dread. And yet go on I must, praying to God to protect us
and let me find father. I pushed ahead, with panic holding me in its wild grip as I pictured
a horrible death if we should be captured by Indians. Then suddenly with wide-strained eyes
and fluttering heart, I forgot all weariness and fear. In the far distance a dim, flickering
light. Gripping Milt's arm, I whispered:

"'Father!'

"No sooner had I said it than I thought, 'Perhaps it is an Indian camp-fire.' But common sense
put that aside, for I was sure I had seen father's horse's hoofprints, and certainly they would
lead to him. But suppose he had been captured by Indians, and this fire we were coming to should
lead to horrible disclosures. All this went through my mind, but I said nothing of it to Milton.
I just went walking steadily on. Oh, how far away the light was! Would we never reach it? It
seemed as if the more we walked the farther from it we were. But no, it was he--it was--it
was! With a glad cry of, 'Oh, father! father!' I rushed forward and flung myself in his arms.

"'My child, my Virginia!' he exclaimed, when surprise had let him find his voice. 'You should
not have come here!'

"'But I am here,' I cried, 'and I've brought you some food and your gun, and a blanket, and
a little coffee, and some crackers! And here's a tin cup, too, and your pistols, and some powder
and caps. Oh, and here are some matches, too!' I exclaimed, holding out one after another of
the precious articles to his astonished gaze, and laughing and crying as I talked.

"It was almost pitiful to see father's astonishment at the thought that some one had come to
help him in his terrible plight, and as he took the things I had brought he kissed and fondled
me like a little child, and said that, God helping him, he would hurry on to California and
secure a home for his beloved family--and it seems conceited to mention it, but he called me
his 'brave daughter' over and over again, until I was glad of the darkness to hide my burning
cheeks. Then in the protecting darkness, with Milton to stand guard, we sat together and talked
of mother and Patty and the boys, and of what we should do while we were parted from him. Father
was the first to remember that dawn would soon flush the east, and rising, he kissed me again
and tried to say farewell.

"'But I'm not going back!' I cried. 'I'm going with you. Milt will go back, but I am going
on with you.' Seeing his stern, set face, I pleaded, piteously: 'Oh, don't send me back--I
can never bear to see those cruel men again. Let me go with you?' He turned a white, drawn
face to mine.

"'For mother's sake, dear,' he said, 'go back and take care of her. God will care for me.'
Before I could cry out or make a move to go with him, he had gathered up the articles I had
brought him, jumped on his horse, and ridden away into the solitude of the Western desert.
Milton and I were left alone to find our way back to the encampment where mother was watching
and waiting for me with an eager, aching heart. When my straining eyes had seen the last of
that solitary figure riding off into the black desert, I turned abruptly away, and Milt and
I crept back over the vast desert. Before there was a glimmer of dawn I was safely clasped
in mother's arms, repeated my comforting news over and over again that we had found father,
that he was well and on his way to that land toward which our own faces were turned."

In this simple, direct fashion has Virginia Reed told of a heroic deed in the history of brave
pioneer girls--but as the story comes from her pen, it is scarcely possible to realize the
anxiety, the torturing fear, the hideous danger of such an expedition as that one of hers when
at midnight, on the great plains, she set out to find her father.

"After that," she says, "though we were obliged to travel on, and though the party tried to
be friendly with us, our hearts were sore and our thoughts were centered on father, journeying
on alone. But as we went on we found welcome surprises by the way. A note written by him, stuck
on a forked twig by the wayside, feathers scattered over the path to show that he had killed
a bird and was not hungry. When we had found such evidence of his being alive and well, mother
would be light-hearted for a whole day. Then the signs ceased, and mother's despair was pitiful
to see. Had he been killed by the Indians or perhaps died of starvation? Patty and I were afraid
we would lose mother, too. But starvation was menacing the whole party, and she was roused
to new strength in a desire to protect her children from that fate. And even more ominous in
their portent of disaster, before us rose the snow-capped Sierra Nevada mountains, which we
must cross before the heavy snows fell, and the question was, could we do it? We left our wagon
behind, which was too heavy for the mountain trip, placed in it every article we could do without,
packed what we needed in another, and struggled on as best we could until the 19th of October,
when we had a great joy. As we were wearily traveling along the Truckee, up rode Mr. Stanton
and with him were seven mules loaded with provisions! No angel from the skies could have been
more welcome, and, hungry though we were, better than food was the news that father was alive
and pushing on to the west. Mr. Stanton had met him near Sutter's Fort, and had given him provisions
and a fresh horse. Oh, how relieved mother was! I think she could not have eaten a mouthful,
hungry as she was, without the glad tidings. Father had asked Mr. Stanton to personally conduct
us across the Sierras before snow came, which he had promised to do, so with new courage we
hurried on, keeping a close watch on those gaunt peaks ahead of us, which we must climb before
realizing our dreams. Although it was so early in the season, all trails were covered with
snow, but we struggled on, mother riding one mule with Tommy in her lap, Patty and Jim on another,
behind two Indians who had accompanied Mr. Stanton, and I riding behind our leader. But though
we did all in our power to travel fast, we were obliged to call a halt before we reached the
summit, and camp only three miles this side of the crest of the mountain range.

"That night," says Virginia, "came the dreaded snow. Around the camp-fires under the trees
great feathery flakes came whirling down. The air was so full of them that one could see objects
only a few feet away. The Indians knew we were doomed and one of them wrapped his blanket about
him and stood all night under a tree. We children slept soundly on our cold bed of snow, which
fell over us so thickly that every few moments my mother would have to shake the shawl--our
only covering--to keep us from being buried alive. In the morning the snow lay deep on mountain
and valley, and we were forced to turn back to a lake we had passed, which was afterward called
'Donner Lake,' where the men hastily put up some rough cabins--three of them known as the Breen
cabin, the Murphy cabin, and the Reed-Graves cabin. Then the cattle were all killed, and the
meat was placed in the snow to preserve it, and we tried to settle down as comfortably as we
could, until the season of snow and ice should be over. But the comfort was a poor imitation
of the real thing, and now and then, in desperation, a party started out to try to cross the
mountains, but they were always driven back by the pitiless storms. Finally, a party of fifteen,
known in later days as the 'Forlorn Hopes,' started out, ten men and five women, on snow-shoes,
led by noble Mr. Stanton, and we heard no more of them until months afterward.

"No pen can describe the dreary hopelessness of those who spent that winter at Donner Lake,"
says Virginia. "Our daily life in that dark little cabin under the snow would fill pages and
make the coldest heart ache. Only one memory stands out with any bright gleam. Christmas was
near, and there was no way of making it a happy time. But my mother was determined to give
us a treat on that day. She had hidden away a small store of provisions--a few dried apples,
some beans, a bit of tripe, and a small piece of bacon. These she brought out, and when we
saw the treasures we shouted for joy, and watched the meal cooking with hunger-sharpened eyes.
Mother smiled at our delight and cautioned:

"'Children, eat slowly, for this one day you can have all you wish!' and never has any Christmas
feast since driven out of my memory that most memorable one at Donner Lake.

"Somehow or other the cold dark days and weeks passed, but as they went by our store of supplies
grew less and less, and many died from cold and hunger. Frequently we had to cut chips from
the inside of our cabin to start a fire, and we were so weak from want of food that we could
scarcely drag ourselves from one cabin to the other, and so four dreadful months wore away.
Then came a day when a fact stared us in the face. We were starving. With an almost superhuman
strength mother roused. 'I am going to walk across the mountains,' she said; 'I cannot see
my children die for lack of food.' Quickly I stood beside her. 'I will go, too,' I said. Up
rose Milt and Eliza. 'We will go with you,' they said. Leaving the children to be cared for
by the Breens and Murphys, we made a brave start. Milt led the way on snow-shoes and we followed
in his tracks, but Eliza gave out on the first day and had to go back, and after five days
in the mountains, we, too, turned back and mother was almost exhausted, and we went back just
in time, for that night there was the most fearful storm of the winter, and we should have
died if we had not had the shelter of our cabins. My feet had been badly frozen, and mother
was utterly spent from climbing one high mountain after another, but we felt no lasting bad
effects from the venture. But we had no food! Our cabins were roofed over with hides, which
now we had to take down and boil for food. They saved life, but to eat them was like eating
a pot of glue, and I could not swallow them. The roof of our cabin having been taken off, the
Breens gave us a shelter, and when Mrs. Breen discovered what I had tried to hide from my own
family, that I could not eat the hide, she gave me little bits of meat now and then from their
fast-dwindling store.

"One thing was my great comfort from that time," says Virginia. "The Breens were the only Catholics
in the party, and prayers were said regularly every night and morning in their little cabin,
Mr. Breen reading by the light of a small pine torch, which I held, kneeling by his side. There
was something inexpressibly comforting to me in this simple service, and one night when we
had all gone to bed, huddled together to keep from freezing, and I felt it would not be long
before we would all go to sleep never to wake again in this world, all at once I found myself
on my knees, looking up through the darkness and making a vow that if God would send us relief
and let me see my father again, I would become a Catholic. And my prayer was answered. 

I truly did. I told you let something about the Knees. But there isn't become such deviation be
huddled through bed when you know we through and in, and i had a
supper with them felt.

Baby Gibbie shake her rear. Don'mt you forget me was lovely tomorrow?

" Relief!'

"In a moment, before our unbelieving eyes, stood seven men sent by Captain Sutter from the
fort, and they had brought an ample supply of flour and jerked beef, to save us from the death
which had already overtaken so many of our party. There was joy at Donner Lake that night,
for the men said: 'Relief parties will come and go until you have all crossed the mountains
safely.' But," Virginia's diary says: "mingled with one joy were bitter tears. Even strong
men sat and wept as they saw the dead lying about on the snow, some even unburied, as the living
had not had strength to bury them. I sorrowed most for Milt Elliott--our faithful friend, who
seemed so like a brother, and when he died, mother and I dragged him out of the cabin and covered
him with snow, and I patted the pure white snow down softly over all but his face--and dragged
myself away, with a heart aching from the pain of such a loss.

"But we were obliged to turn our thoughts to the living and their future, and eagerly listened
to the story of the men, who told us that when father arrived at Sutter's Fort, after meeting
Mr. Stanton, he told Captain Sutter of our desperate plight and the captain at once furnished
horses and supplies, with which father and Mr. McCutchen started back, but were obliged to
return to the fort, and while they were conferring with Captain Sutter about their next move,
the seven living members of the 'Forlorn Hope' party who had left us the first part of the
winter, arrived at the fort. Their pale, worn faces told the story and touched all hearts.
Cattle were killed and men were up all night drying beef and making flour by hand-mills for
us; then the party started out to our rescue and they had not reached us one moment too soon!

"Three days later, the first relief started from Donner Lake with a party of twenty-three men,
women, and children, and our family was among them. It was a bright, sunny day and we felt
happy, but we had not gone far when Patty and Tommy gave out. As gently as possible I told
mother that they would have to go back to the lake and wait for the next expedition. Mother
insisted that she would go back with them, but the relief party would not allow this, and finally
she gave in and let the children go in care of a Mr. Hover. Even the bravest of the men had
tears in their eyes when little Patty patted mother's cheek and said, 'I want to see papa,
but I will take good care of Tommy, and I do not want you to come back.' Meanwhile we traveled
on, heavy-hearted, struggling through the snow single file. The men on snow-shoes broke the
way and we followed in their tracks. At night we lay down on the snow to sleep, to awake to
find our clothing all frozen. At break of day we were on the road again.... The sunshine, which
it would seem would have been welcome, only added to our misery. The dazzling reflection made
it very trying to our eyes, while its heat melted our frozen clothing and made it cling to
our bodies. Jim was too small to step in the tracks made by the men, and to walk at all he
had to place his knee on the little hill of snow after each step, and climb over it. Mother
and I coaxed him along by telling him that every step he took he was getting nearer papa and
nearer something to eat. He was the youngest child that walked over the Sierra Nevada.

"On their way to our rescue the relief party from Sutter's Fort had left meat hanging on a
tree for our use as we came out. What was their horror when we reached the spot to find that
it had been taken by wild animals. We were starving again--where could we get food? As we were
trying to decide on our next move, one of the men who was in the lead ahead stopped, turned,
and called out:

