It is very easy for the missionary to become a little "pope." God forbid that we should do
this! God forbid that we should consider ourselves the exclusive channels for bringing God's
grace to needy souls, or the only ones capable of hearing God's voice! God forbid that we should
forget that every believer, as soon as he is born again, is indwelt by the Holy Spirit! And
may God open our eyes to ways and means of doing what is perhaps the greatest task of the missionary,
the task of bringing the young church to the place where it can get along without us, the task
of working ourselves out of a job!

CHAPTER 12

He Had No Rights

He had no rights:

    No right to a soft bed, and a well-laid table;

    No right to a home of His own, a place where His own
    pleasure might be sought;

    No right to choose pleasant, congenial companions, those who
    could understand Him and sympathize with Him;

    No right to shrink away from filth and sin, to pull His
    garments closer around Him and turn aside to walk in cleaner
    paths;

    No right to be understood and appreciated; no, not by those
    upon whom He had poured out a double portion of His love;

    No right even never to be forsaken by His Father, the One
    who meant more than all to Him.

His only right was silently to endure shame, spitting, blows; to take His place as a sinner
at the dock; to bear my sins in anguish on the cross.

He had no rights. And I?

    A right to the "comforts" of life? No, but a right to the
    love of God for my pillow.

    A right to physical safety? No, but a right to the security
    of being in His will.

    A right to love and sympathy from those around me? No, but a
    right to the friendship of the One who understands me better
    than I do myself.

    A right to be a leader among men? No, but the right to be
    led by the One to whom I have given my all, led as is a
    little child, with its hand in the hand of its father.

    A right to a home, and dear ones? No, not necessarily; but a
    right to dwell in the heart of God.

    A right to myself? No, but, oh, I have a right to Christ.

    All that He takes I will give;
    All that He gives will I take;
    He, my only right!
    He, the one right before which all other rights
      fade into nothingness.
    I have full right to Him;
    Oh, may He have full right to me!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: This word is not used in any disparaging sense, but simply meaning "originating
in a given place."]

[Footnote 2: Colloquial Chinese term for a bride.]

[Footnote 3: Bound small in childhood.]

[Footnote 4: Adapted from The Lord Stood by Me (Philadelphia: China Inland Mission, n.d.),
pp. 67-75 (out of print).]

[Footnote 5: Cf. ch. 8.]

[Footnote 6: General Director of the China Inland Mission at that time.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Title Page: The title and author have been changed from lower case to
  title case.

Page 45: Typo corrected: vistior to visitor.

Page 105: Typo corrected: gardner to gardener.

Page 119: Typo corrected: happend to happened.