The Moon Pool

A. MERRITT

Foreword

The publication of the following narrative of Dr. Walter T. Goodwin has been authorized by
the Executive Council of the International Association of Science.

First:

To end officially what is beginning to be called the Throckmartin Mystery and to kill the innuendo
and scandalous suspicions which have threatened to stain the reputations of Dr. David Throckmartin,
his youthful wife, and equally youthful associate Dr. Charles Stanton ever since a tardy despatch
from Melbourne, Australia, reported the disappearance of the first from a ship sailing to that
port, and the subsequent reports of the disappearance of his wife and associate from the camp
of their expedition in the Caroline Islands.

Second:

Because the Executive Council have concluded that Dr. Goodwin's experiences in his wholly heroic
effort to save the three, and the lessons and warnings within those experiences, are too important
to humanity as a whole to be hidden away in scientific papers understandable only to the technically
educated; or to be presented through the newspaper press in the abridged and fragmentary form
which the space limitations of that vehicle make necessary.

For these reasons the Executive Council commissioned Mr. A. Merritt to transcribe into form
to be readily understood by the layman the stenographic notes of Dr. Goodwin's own report to
the Council, supplemented by further oral reminiscences and comments by Dr. Goodwin; this transcription,
edited and censored by the Executive Council of the Association, forms the contents of this book.

Himself a member of the Council, Dr. Walter T. Goodwin, Ph.D., F.R.G.S. etc., is without cavil
the foremost of American botanists, an observer of international reputation and the author
of several epochal treaties upon his chosen branch of science. His story, amazing in the best
sense of that word as it may be, is fully supported by proofs brought forward by him and accepted
by the organization of which I have the honor to be president. What matter has been elided
from this popular presentation--because of the excessively menacing potentialities it contains,
which unrestricted dissemination might develop--will be dealt with in purely scientific pamphlets
of carefully guarded circulation.

THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SCIENCE
  Per J. B. K., President

CONTENTS

       I  The Thing on the Moon Path
      II  "Dead!  All Dead!"
     III  The Moon Rock
      IV  The First Vanishings
       V  Into the Moon Pool
      VI  "The Shining Devil Took Them!"
     VII  Larry O'Keefe
    VIII  Olaf's Story
      IX  A Lost Page of Earth
       X  The Moon Pool
      XI  The Flame-Tipped Shadows
     XII  The End of the Journey
    XIII  Yolara, Priestess of the Shining One
     XIV  The Justice of Lora
      XV  The Angry, Whispering Globe
     XVI  Yolara of Muria vs. the O'Keefe
    XVII  The Leprechaun
   XVIII  The Amphitheatre of Jet
     XIX  The Madness of Olaf
      XX  The Tempting of Larry
     XXI  Larry's Defiance
    XXII  The Casting of the Shadow
   XXIII  Dragon Worm and Moss Death
    XXIV  The Crimson Sea
     XXV  The Three Silent Ones
    XXVI  The Wooing of Lakla
   XXVII  The Coming of Yolara
  XXVIII  In the Lair of the Dweller
    XXIX  The Shaping of the Shining One
     XXX  The Building of the Moon Pool
    XXXI  Larry and the Frog-Men
   XXXII  "Your Love; Your Lives; Your Souls!"
  XXXIII  The Meeting of Titans
   XXXIV  The Coming of the Shining One
    XXXV  "Larry--Farewell!"

CHAPTER I

The Thing on the Moon Path

For two months I had been on the d'Entrecasteaux Islands gathering data for the concluding
chapters of my book upon the flora of the volcanic islands of the South Pacific. The day before
I had reached Port Moresby and had seen my specimens safely stored on board the Southern Queen.
As I sat on the upper deck I thought, with homesick mind, of the long leagues between me and
Melbourne, and the longer ones between Melbourne and New York.

It was one of Papua's yellow mornings when she shows herself in her sombrest, most baleful
mood. The sky was smouldering ochre. Over the island brooded a spirit sullen, alien, implacable,
filled with the threat of latent, malefic forces waiting to be unleashed. It seemed an emanation
out of the untamed, sinister heart of Papua herself--sinister even when she smiles. And now
and then, on the wind, came a breath from virgin jungles, laden with unfamiliar odours, mysterious
and menacing.

It is on such mornings that Papua whispers to you of her immemorial ancientness and of her
power. And, as every white man must, I fought against her spell. While I struggled I saw a
tall figure striding down the pier; a Kapa-Kapa boy followed swinging a new valise. There was
something familiar about the tall man. As he reached the gangplank he looked up straight into
my eyes, stared for a moment, then waved his hand.

And now I knew him.  It was Dr. David Throckmartin--"Throck" he was to me always, one of my
oldest friends and, as well, a mind of the first water whose power and achievements were for
me a constant inspiration as they were, I know, for scores other.

Coincidentally with my recognition came a shock of surprise, definitely--unpleasant. It was
Throckmartin--but about him was something disturbingly unlike the man I had known long so well
and to whom and to whose little party I had bidden farewell less than a month before I myself
had sailed for these seas. He had married only a few weeks before, Edith, the daughter of Professor
William Frazier, younger by at least a decade than he but at one with him in his ideals and
as much in love, if it were possible, as Throckmartin. By virtue of her father's training a
wonderful assistant, by virtue of her own sweet, sound heart a--I use the word in its olden
sense--lover. With his equally youthful associate Dr. Charles Stanton and a Swedish woman,
Thora Halversen, who had been Edith Throckmartin's nurse from babyhood, they had set forth
for the Nan-Matal, that extraordinary group of island ruins clustered along the eastern shore
of Ponape in the Carolines.

I knew that he had planned to spend at least a year among these ruins, not only of Ponape but
of Lele--twin centres of a colossal riddle of humanity, a weird flower of civilization that
blossomed ages before the seeds of Egypt were sown; of whose arts we know little enough and
of whose science nothing. He had carried with him unusually complete equipment for the work
he had expected to do and which, he hoped, would be his monument.

What then had brought Throckmartin to Port Moresby, and what was that change I had sensed in him?

Hurrying down to the lower deck I found him with the purser.  As I spoke he turned, thrust
out to me an eager hand--and then I saw what was that difference that had so moved me. He knew,
of course by my silence and involuntary shrinking the shock my closer look had given me. His
eyes filled; he turned brusquely from the purser, hesitated--then hurried off to his stateroom.

"'E looks rather queer--eh?" said the purser.  "Know 'im well, sir? Seems to 'ave given you
quite a start."

I made some reply and went slowly up to my chair.  There I sat, composed my mind and tried
to define what it was that had shaken me so. Now it came to me. The old Throckmartin was on
the eve of his venture just turned forty, lithe, erect, muscular; his controlling expression
one of enthusiasm, of intellectual keenness, of--what shall I say--expectant search. His always
questioning brain had stamped its vigor upon his face.

But the Throckmartin I had seen below was one who had borne some scaring shock of mingled rapture
and horror; some soul cataclysm that in its climax had remoulded, deep from within, his face,
setting on it seal of wedded ecstasy and despair; as though indeed these two had come to him
hand in hand, taken possession of him and departing left behind, ineradicably, their linked
shadows!

Yes--it was that which appalled.  For how could rapture and horror, Heaven and Hell mix, clasp
hands--kiss?

Yet these were what in closest embrace lay on Throckmartin's face!

Deep in thought, subconsciously with relief, I watched the shore line sink behind; welcomed
the touch of the wind of the free seas. I had hoped, and within the hope was an inexplicable
shrinking that I would meet Throckmartin at lunch. He did not come down, and I was sensible
of deliverance within my disappointment. All that afternoon I lounged about uneasily but still
he kept to his cabin--and within me was no strength to summon him. Nor did he appear at dinner.

Dusk and night fell swiftly.  I was warm and went back to my deck-chair. The Southern Queen
was rolling to a disquieting swell and I had the place to myself.

Over the heavens was a canopy of cloud, glowing faintly and testifying to the moon riding behind
it. There was much phosphorescence. Fitfully before the ship and at her sides arose those stranger
little swirls of mist that swirl up from the Southern Ocean like breath of sea monsters, whirl
for an instant and disappear.

Suddenly the deck door opened and through it came Throckmartin.  He paused uncertainly, looked
up at the sky with a curiously eager, intent gaze, hesitated, then closed the door behind him.

"Throck," I called.  "Come!  It's Goodwin."

He made his way to me.

"Throck," I said, wasting no time in preliminaries. "What's wrong? Can I help you?"

I felt his body grow tense.

"I'm going to Melbourne, Goodwin," he answered.  "I need a few things--need them urgently.
And more men--white men--"

He stopped abruptly; rose from his chair, gazed intently toward the north. I followed his gaze.
Far, far away the moon had broken through the clouds. Almost on the horizon, you could see
the faint luminescence of it upon the smooth sea. The distant patch of light quivered and shook.
The clouds thickened again and it was gone. The ship raced on southward, swiftly.

Throckmartin dropped into his chair.  He lighted a cigarette with a hand that trembled; then
turned to me with abrupt resolution.

"Goodwin," he said.  "I do need help.  If ever man needed it, I do. Goodwin--can you imagine
yourself in another world, alien, unfamiliar, a world of terror, whose unknown joy is its greatest
terror of all; you all alone there, a stranger! As such a man would need help, so I need--"

He paused abruptly and arose; the cigarette dropped from his fingers. The moon had again broken
through the clouds, and this time much nearer. Not a mile away was the patch of light that
it threw upon the waves. Back of it, to the rim of the sea was a lane of moonlight; a gigantic
gleaming serpent racing over the edge of the world straight and surely toward the ship.

Throckmartin stiffened to it as a pointer does to a hidden covey.  To me from him pulsed a
thrill of horror--but horror tinged with an unfamiliar, an infernal joy. It came to me and
passed away--leaving me trembling with its shock of bitter sweet.

He bent forward, all his soul in his eyes.  The moon path swept closer, closer still. It was
now less than half a mile away. From it the ship fled--almost as though pursued. Down upon
it, swift and straight, a radiant torrent cleaving the waves, raced the moon stream.

"Good God!" breathed Throckmartin, and if ever the words were a prayer and an invocation they were.

And then, for the first time--I saw--it!

The moon path stretched to the horizon and was bordered by darkness. It was as though the clouds
above had been parted to form a lane-drawn aside like curtains or as the waters of the Red
Sea were held back to let the hosts of Israel through. On each side of the stream was the black
shadow cast by the folds of the high canopies And straight as a road between the opaque walls
gleamed, shimmered, and danced the shining, racing, rapids of the moonlight.

Far, it seemed immeasurably far, along this stream of silver fire I sensed, rather than saw,
something coming. It drew first into sight as a deeper glow within the light. On and on it
swept toward us--an opalescent mistiness that sped with the suggestion of some winged creature
in arrowed flight. Dimly there crept into my mind memory of the Dyak legend of the winged messenger
of Buddha--the Akla bird whose feathers are woven of the moon rays, whose heart is a living
opal, whose wings in flight echo the crystal clear music of the white stars--but whose beak
is of frozen flame and shreds the souls of unbelievers.

Closer it drew and now there came to me sweet, insistent tinklings--like pizzicati on violins
of glass; crystal clear; diamonds melting into sounds!

Now the Thing was close to the end of the white path; close up to the barrier of darkness still
between the ship and the sparkling head of the moon stream. Now it beat up against that barrier
as a bird against the bars of its cage. It whirled with shimmering plumes, with swirls of lacy
light, with spirals of living vapour. It held within it odd, unfamiliar gleams as of shifting
mother-of-pearl. Coruscations and glittering atoms drifted through it as though it drew them
from the rays that bathed it.

Nearer and nearer it came, borne on the sparkling waves, and ever thinner shrank the protecting
wall of shadow between it and us. Within the mistiness was a core, a nucleus of intenser light--veined,
opaline, effulgent, intensely alive. And above it, tangled in the plumes and spirals that throbbed
and whirled were seven glowing lights.

Through all the incessant but strangely ordered movement of the--thing--these lights held firm
and steady. They were seven--like seven little moons. One was of a pearly pink, one of a delicate
nacreous blue, one of lambent saffron, one of the emerald you see in the shallow waters of
tropic isles; a deathly white; a ghostly amethyst; and one of the silver that is seen only
when the flying fish leap beneath the moon.

The tinkling music was louder still.  It pierced the ears with a shower of tiny lances; it
made the heart beat jubilantly--and checked it dolorously. It closed the throat with a throb
of rapture and gripped it tight with the hand of infinite sorrow!

Came to me now a murmuring cry, stilling the crystal notes.  It was articulate--but as though
from something utterly foreign to this world. The ear took the cry and translated with conscious
labour into the sounds of earth. And even as it compassed, the brain shrank from it irresistibly,
and simultaneously it seemed reached toward it with irresistible eagerness.

Throckmartin strode toward the front of the deck, straight toward the vision, now but a few
yards away from the stern. His face had lost all human semblance. Utter agony and utter ecstasy--there
they were side by side, not resisting each other; unholy inhuman companions blending into a
look that none of God's creatures should wear--and deep, deep as his soul! A devil and a God
dwelling harmoniously side by side! So must Satan, newly fallen, still divine, seeing heaven
and contemplating hell, have appeared.

And then--swiftly the moon path faded!  The clouds swept over the sky as though a hand had
drawn them together. Up from the south came a roaring squall. As the moon vanished what I had
seen vanished with it--blotted out as an image on a magic lantern; the tinkling ceased abruptly--leaving
a silence like that which follows an abrupt thunder clap. There was nothing about us but silence
and blackness!

Through me passed a trembling as one who has stood on the very verge of the gulf wherein the
men of the Louisades says lurks the fisher of the souls of men, and has been plucked back by
sheerest chance.

Throckmartin passed an arm around me.

"It is as I thought," he said.  In his voice was a new note; the calm certainty that has swept
aside a waiting terror of the unknown. "Now I know! Come with me to my cabin, old friend. For
now that you too have seen I can tell you"--he hesitated--"what it was you saw," he ended.

As we passed through the door we met the ship's first officer. Throckmartin composed his face
into at least a semblance of normality.

"Going to have much of a storm?" he asked.

"Yes," said the mate.  "Probably all the way to Melbourne."

Throckmartin straightened as though with a new thought. He gripped the officer's sleeve eagerly.

"You mean at least cloudy weather--for"--he hesitated--"for the next three nights, say?"

"And for three more," replied the mate.

"Thank God!" cried Throckmartin, and I think I never heard such relief and hope as was in his
voice.

The sailor stood amazed.  "Thank God?" he repeated. "Thank--what d'ye mean?"

But Throckmartin was moving onward to his cabin.  I started to follow. The first officer stopped
me.

"Your friend," he said, "is he ill?"

"The sea!" I answered hurriedly.  "He's not used to it.  I am going to look after him."

Doubt and disbelief were plain in the seaman's eyes but I hurried on. For I knew now that Throckmartin
was ill indeed--but with a sickness the ship's doctor nor any other could heal.

CHAPTER II

"Dead!  All Dead!"

He was sitting, face in hands, on the side of his berth as I entered. He had taken off his coat.

"Throck," I cried.  "What was it?  What are you flying from, man? Where is your wife--and Stanton?"

"Dead!" he replied monotonously.  "Dead!  All dead!" Then as I recoiled from him--"All dead.
Edith, Stanton, Thora--dead--or worse. And Edith in the Moon Pool--with them--drawn by what
you saw on the moon path--that has put its brand upon me--and follows me!"

He ripped open his shirt.

"Look at this," he said.  Around his chest, above his heart, the skin was white as pearl. This
whiteness was sharply defined against the healthy tint of the body. It circled him with an
even cincture about two inches wide.

"Burn it!" he said, and offered me his cigarette.  I drew back.  He gestured--peremptorily.
I pressed the glowing end of the cigarette into the ribbon of white flesh. He did not flinch
nor was there odour of burning nor, as I drew the little cylinder away, any mark upon the whiteness.

"Feel it!" he commanded again.  I placed my fingers upon the band.  It was cold--like frozen
marble.

He drew his shirt around him.

"Two things you have seen," he said.  "It--and its mark. Seeing, you must believe my story.
Goodwin, I tell you again that my wife is dead--or worse--I do not know; the prey of--what
you saw; so, too, is Stanton; so Thora. How--"

Tears rolled down the seared face.

"Why did God let it conquer us?  Why did He let it take my Edith?" he cried in utter bitterness.
"Are there things stronger than God, do you think, Walter?"

I hesitated.

"Are there?  Are there?" His wild eyes searched me.

"I do not know just how you define God," I managed at last through my astonishment to make
answer. "If you mean the will to know, working through science--"

He waved me aside impatiently.

"Science," he said.  "What is our science against--that? Or against the science of whatever
devils that made it--or made the way for it to enter this world of ours?"

With an effort he regained control.

"Goodwin," he said, "do you know at all of the ruins on the Carolines; the cyclopean, megalithic
cities and harbours of Ponape and Lele, of Kusaie, of Ruk and Hogolu, and a score of other
islets there? Particularly, do you know of the Nan-Matal and the Metalanim?"

"Of the Metalanim I have heard and seen photographs," I said.  "They call it, don't they, the
Lost Venice of the Pacific?"

"Look at this map," said Throckmartin.  "That," he went on, "is Christian's chart of Metalanim
harbour and the Nan-Matal. Do you see the rectangles marked Nan-Tauach?"

"Yes," I said.

"There," he said, "under those walls is the Moon Pool and the seven gleaming lights that raise
the Dweller in the Pool, and the altar and shrine of the Dweller. And there in the Moon Pool
with it lie Edith and Stanton and Thora."

"The Dweller in the Moon Pool?" I repeated half-incredulously.

"The Thing you saw," said Throckmartin solemnly.

A solid sheet of rain swept the ports, and the Southern Queen began to roll on the rising swells.
Throckmartin drew another deep breath of relief, and drawing aside a curtain peered out into
the night. Its blackness seemed to reassure him. At any rate, when he sat again he was entirely
calm.

"There are no more wonderful ruins in the world," he began almost casually. "They take in some
fifty islets and cover with their intersecting canals and lagoons about twelve square miles.
Who built them? None knows. When were they built? Ages before the memory of present man, that
is sure. Ten thousand, twenty thousand, a hundred thousand years ago--the last more likely.

"All these islets, Walter, are squared, and their shores are frowning seawalls of gigantic
basalt blocks hewn and put in place by the hands of ancient man. Each inner water-front is
faced with a terrace of those basalt blocks which stand out six feet above the shallow canals
that meander between them. On the islets behind these walls are time-shattered fortresses,
palaces, terraces, pyramids; immense courtyards strewn with ruins--and all so old that they
seem to wither the eyes of those who look on them.

"There has been a great subsidence.  You can stand out of Metalanim harbour for three miles
and look down upon the tops of similar monolithic structures and walls twenty feet below you
in the water.

"And all about, strung on their canals, are the bulwarked islets with their enigmatic walls
peering through the dense growths of mangroves--dead, deserted for incalculable ages; shunned
by those who live near.

"You as a botanist are familiar with the evidence that a vast shadowy continent existed in
the Pacific--a continent that was not rent asunder by volcanic forces as was that legendary
one of Atlantis in the Eastern Ocean.[1] My work in Java, in Papua, and in the Ladrones had
set my mind upon this Pacific lost land. Just as the Azores are believed to be the last high
peaks of Atlantis, so hints came to me steadily that Ponape and Lele and their basalt bulwarked
islets were the last points of the slowly sunken western land clinging still to the sunlight,
and had been the last refuge and sacred places of the rulers of that race which had lost their
immemorial home under the rising waters of the Pacific.

"I believed that under these ruins I might find the evidence that I sought.

"My--my wife and I had talked before we were married of making this our great work. After the
honeymoon we prepared for the expedition. Stanton was as enthusiastic as ourselves. We sailed,
as you know, last May for fulfilment of my dreams.

"At Ponape we selected, not without difficulty, workmen to help us--diggers. I had to make
extraordinary inducements before I could get together my force. Their beliefs are gloomy, these
Ponapeans. They people their swamps, their forests, their mountains, and shores, with malignant
spirits--ani they call them. And they are afraid--bitterly afraid of the isles of ruins and
what they think the ruins hide. I do not wonder--now!

"When they were told where they were to go, and how long we expected to stay, they murmured.
Those who, at last, were tempted made what I thought then merely a superstitious proviso that
they were to be allowed to go away on the three nights of the full moon. Would to God we had
heeded them and gone too!"

"We passed into Metalanim harbour.  Off to our left--a mile away arose a massive quadrangle.
Its walls were all of forty feet high and hundreds of feet on each side. As we drew by, our
natives grew very silent; watched it furtively, fearfully. I knew it for the ruins that are
called Nan-Tauach, the 'place of frowning walls.' And at the silence of my men I recalled what
Christian had written of this place; of how he had come upon its 'ancient platforms and tetragonal
enclosures of stonework; its wonder of tortuous alleyways and labyrinth of shallow canals;
grim masses of stonework peering out from behind verdant screens; cyclopean barricades,' and
of how, when he had turned 'into its ghostly shadows, straight-way the merriment of guides
was hushed and conversation died down to whispers.'"

He was silent for a little time.

"Of course I wanted to pitch our camp there," he went on again quietly, "but I soon gave up
that idea. The natives were panic-stricken--threatened to turn back. 'No,' they said, 'too
great ani there. We go to any other place--but not there.'

"We finally picked for our base the islet called Uschen-Tau.  It was close to the isle of desire,
but far enough away from it to satisfy our men. There was an excellent camping-place and a
spring of fresh water. We pitched our tents, and in a couple of days the work was in full swing."

[1] For more detailed observations on these points refer to G. Volkens, Uber die Karolinen
Insel Yap, in Verhandlungen Gesellschaft Erdkunde Berlin, xxvii (1901); J. S. Kubary, Ethnographische
Beitrage zur Kentniss des Karolinen Archipel (Leiden, 1889-1892); De Abrade Historia del Conflicto
de las Carolinas, etc. (Madrid, 1886).--W. T. G.

CHAPTER III

The Moon Rock

"I do not intend to tell you now," Throckmartin continued, "the results of the next two weeks,
nor of what we found. Later--if I am allowed, I will lay all that before you. It is sufficient
to say that at the end of those two weeks I had found confirmation for many of my theories.

"The place, for all its decay and desolation, had not infected us with any touch of morbidity--that
is not Edith, Stanton, or myself. But Thora was very unhappy. She was a Swede, as you know,
and in her blood ran the beliefs and superstitions of the Northland--some of them so strangely
akin to those of this far southern land; beliefs of spirits of mountain and forest and water
werewolves and beings malign. From the first she showed a curious sensitivity to what, I suppose,
may be called the 'influences' of the place. She said it 'smelled' of ghosts and warlocks.

"I laughed at her then--

"Two weeks slipped by, and at their end the spokesman for our natives came to us. The next
night was the full of the moon, he said. He reminded me of my promise. They would go back to
their village in the morning; they would return after the third night, when the moon had begun
to wane. They left us sundry charms for our 'protection,' and solemnly cautioned us to keep
as far away as possible from Nan-Tauach during their absence. Half-exasperated, half-amused
I watched them go.

"No work could be done without them, of course, so we decided to spend the days of their absence
junketing about the southern islets of the group. We marked down several spots for subsequent
exploration, and on the morning of the third day set forth along the east face of the breakwater
for our camp on Uschen-Tau, planning to have everything in readiness for the return of our
men the next day.

"We landed just before dusk, tired and ready for our cots. It was only a little after ten o'clock
that Edith awakened me.

"'Listen!' she said.  'Lean over with your ear close to the ground!'

"I did so, and seemed to hear, far, far below, as though coming up from great distances, a
faint chanting. It gathered strength, died down, ended; began, gathered volume, faded away
into silence.

"'It's the waves rolling on rocks somewhere,' I said.  'We're probably over some ledge of rock
that carries the sound.'

"'It's the first time I've heard it,' replied my wife doubtfully.  We listened again. Then
through the dim rhythms, deep beneath us, another sound came. It drifted across the lagoon
that lay between us and Nan-Tauach in little tinkling waves. It was music--of a sort; I won't
describe the strange effect it had upon me. You've felt it--"

"You mean on the deck?" I asked.  Throckmartin nodded.

"I went to the flap of the tent," he continued, "and peered out. As I did so Stanton lifted
his flap and walked out into the moonlight, looking over to the other islet and listening.
I called to him.

"'That's the queerest sound!' he said.  He listened again. 'Crystalline! Like little notes
of translucent glass. Like the bells of crystal on the sistrums of Isis at Dendarah Temple,'
he added half-dreamily. We gazed intently at the island. Suddenly, on the sea-wall, moving
slowly, rhythmically, we saw a little group of lights. Stanton laughed.

"'The beggars!' he exclaimed.  'That's why they wanted to get away, is it? Don't you see, Dave,
it's some sort of a festival--rites of some kind that they hold during the full moon! That's
why they were so eager to have us keep away, too.'

"The explanation seemed good.  I felt a curious sense of relief, although I had not been sensible
of any oppression.

"'Let's slip over,' suggested Stanton--but I would not.

"'They're a difficult lot as it is,' I said.  'If we break into one of their religious ceremonies
they'll probably never forgive us. Let's keep out of any family party where we haven't been
invited.'

"'That's so,' agreed Stanton.

"The strange tinkling rose and fell, rose and fell--

"'There's something--something very unsettling about it,' said Edith at last soberly. 'I wonder
what they make those sounds with. They frighten me half to death, and, at the same time, they
make me feel as though some enormous rapture were just around the corner.'

"'It's devilish uncanny!' broke in Stanton.

"And as he spoke the flap of Thora's tent was raised and out into the moonlight strode the
old Swede. She was the great Norse type--tall, deep-breasted, moulded on the old Viking lines.
Her sixty years had slipped from her. She looked like some ancient priestess of Odin.

"She stood there, her eyes wide, brilliant, staring.  She thrust her head forward toward Nan-Tauach,
regarding the moving lights; she listened. Suddenly she raised her arms and made a curious
gesture to the moon. It was--an archaic--movement; she seemed to drag it from remote antiquity--yet
in it was a strange suggestion of power, Twice she repeated this gesture and--the tinklings
died away! She turned to us.

"'Go!' she said, and her voice seemed to come from far distances.  'Go from here--and quickly!
Go while you may. It has called--' She pointed to the islet. 'It knows you are here. It waits!'
she wailed. 'It beckons--the--the--"

"She fell at Edith's feet, and over the lagoon came again the tinklings, now with a quicker
note of jubilance--almost of triumph.

"We watched beside her throughout the night.  The sounds from Nan-Tauach continued until about
an hour before moon-set. In the morning Thora awoke, none the worse, apparently. She had had
bad dreams, she said. She could not remember what they were--except that they had warned her
of danger. She was oddly sullen, and throughout the morning her gaze returned again and again
half-fascinatedly, half-wonderingly to the neighbouring isle.

"That afternoon the natives returned.  And that night on Nan-Tauach the silence was unbroken
nor were there lights nor sign of life.

"You will understand, Goodwin, how the occurrences I have related would excite the scientific
curiosity. We rejected immediately, of course, any explanation admitting the supernatural.

"Our--symptoms let me call them--could all very easily be accounted for. It is unquestionable
that the vibrations created by certain musical instruments have definite and sometimes extraordinary
effect upon the nervous system. We accepted this as the explanation of the reactions we had
experienced, hearing the unfamiliar sounds. Thora's nervousness, her superstitious apprehensions,
had wrought her up to a condition of semi-somnambulistic hysteria. Science could readily explain
her part in the night's scene.

"We came to the conclusion that there must be a passage-way between Ponape and Nan-Tauach known
to the natives--and used by them during their rites. We decided that on the next departure
of our labourers we would set forth immediately to Nan-Tauach. We would investigate during
the day, and at evening my wife and Thora would go back to camp, leaving Stanton and me to
spend the night on the island, observing from some safe hiding-place what might occur.

"The moon waned; appeared crescent in the west; waxed slowly toward the full. Before the men
left us they literally prayed us to accompany them. Their importunities only made us more eager
to see what it was that, we were now convinced, they wanted to conceal from us. At least that
was true of Stanton and myself. It was not true of Edith. She was thoughtful, abstracted--reluctant.

"When the men were out of sight around the turn of the harbour, we took our boat and made straight
for Nan-Tauach. Soon its mighty sea-wall towered above us. We passed through the water-gate
with its gigantic hewn prisms of basalt and landed beside a half-submerged pier. In front of
us stretched a series of giant steps leading into a vast court strewn with fragments of fallen
pillars. In the centre of the court, beyond the shattered pillars, rose another terrace of
basalt blocks, concealing, I knew, still another enclosure.

"And now, Walter, for the better understanding of what follows--and--and--" he hesitated. "Should
you decide later to return with me or, if I am taken, to--to--follow us--listen carefully to
my description of this place: Nan-Tauach is literally three rectangles. The first rectangle
is the sea-wall, built up of monoliths--hewn and squared, twenty feet wide at the top. To get
to the gateway in the sea-wall you pass along the canal marked on the map between Nan-Tauach
and the islet named Tau. The entrance to the canal is bidden by dense thickets of mangroves;
once through these the way is clear. The steps lead up from the landing of the sea-gate through
the entrance to the courtyard.

"This courtyard is surrounded by another basalt wall, rectangular, following with mathematical
exactness the march of the outer barricades. The sea-wall is from thirty to forty feet high--originally
it must have been much higher, but there has been subsidence in parts. The wall of the first
enclosure is fifteen feet across the top and its height varies from twenty to fifty feet--here,
too, the gradual sinking of the land has caused portions of it to fall.

"Within this courtyard is the second enclosure.  Its terrace, of the same basalt as the outer
walls, is about twenty feet high. Entrance is gained to it by many breaches which time has
made in its stonework. This is the inner court, the heart of Nan-Tauach! There lies the great
central vault with which is associated the one name of living being that has come to us out
of the mists of the past. The natives say it was the treasure-house of Chau-te-leur, a mighty
king who reigned long 'before their fathers.' As Chan is the ancient Ponapean word both for
sun and king, the name means, without doubt, 'place of the sun king.' It is a memory of a dynastic
name of the race that ruled the Pacific continent, now vanished--just as the rulers of ancient
Crete took the name of Minos and the rulers of Egypt the name of Pharaoh.

"And opposite this place of the sun king is the moon rock that hides the Moon Pool.

"It was Stanton who discovered the moon rock.  We had been inspecting the inner courtyard;
Edith and Thora were getting together our lunch. I came out of the vault of Chau-te-leur to
find Stanton before a part of the terrace studying it wonderingly.

"'What do you make of this?' he asked me as I came up. He pointed to the wall. I followed his
finger and saw a slab of stone about fifteen feet high and ten wide. At first all I noticed
was the exquisite nicety with which its edges joined the blocks about it. Then I realized that
its colour was subtly different--tinged with grey and of a smooth, peculiar--deadness.

"'Looks more like calcite than basalt,' I said.  I touched it and withdrew my hand quickly
for at the contact every nerve in my arm tingled as though a shock of frozen electricity had
passed through it. It was not cold as we know cold. It was a chill force--the phrase I have
used--frozen electricity--describes it better than anything else. Stanton looked at me oddly.

"'So you felt it too,' he said.  'I was wondering whether I was developing hallucinations like
Thora. Notice, by the way, that the blocks beside it are quite warm beneath the sun.'

"We examined the slab eagerly.  Its edges were cut as though by an engraver of jewels. They
fitted against the neighbouring blocks in almost a hair-line. Its base was slightly curved,
and fitted as closely as top and sides upon the huge stones on which it rested. And then we
noted that these stones had been hollowed to follow the line of the grey stone's foot. There
was a semicircular depression running from one side of the slab to the other. It was as though
the grey rock stood in the centre of a shallow cup--revealing half, covering half. Something
about this hollow attracted me. I reached down and felt it. Goodwin, although the balance of
the stones that formed it, like all the stones of the courtyard, were rough and age-worn--this
was as smooth, as even surfaced as though it had just left the hands of the polisher.

"'It's a door!' exclaimed Stanton.  'It swings around in that little cup. That's what makes
the hollow so smooth.'

"'Maybe you're right,' I replied.  'But how the devil can we open it?'

"We went over the slab again--pressing upon its edges, thrusting against its sides. During
one of those efforts I happened to look up--and cried out. A foot above and on each side of
the corner of the grey rock's lintel was a slight convexity, visible only from the angle at
which my gaze struck it.

"We carried with us a small scaling-ladder and up this I went.  The bosses were apparently
nothing more than chiseled curvatures in the stone. I laid my hand on the one I was examining,
and drew it back sharply. In my palm, at the base of my thumb, I had felt the same shock that
I had in touching the slab below. I put my hand back. The impression came from a spot not more
than an inch wide. I went carefully over the entire convexity, and six times more the chill
ran through my arm. There were seven circles an inch wide in the curved place, each of which
communicated the precise sensation I have described. The convexity on the opposite side of
the slab gave exactly the same results. But no amount of touching or of pressing these spots
singly or in any combination gave the slightest promise of motion to the slab itself.

"'And yet--they're what open it,' said Stanton positively.

"'Why do you say that?' I asked.

"'I--don't know,' he answered hesitatingly.  'But something tells me so. Throck,' he went on
half earnestly, half laughingly, 'the purely scientific part of me is fighting the purely human
part of me. The scientific part is urging me to find some way to get that slab either down
or open. The human part is just as strongly urging me to do nothing of the sort and get away
while I can!'

"He laughed again--shamefacedly.

"'Which shall it be?' he asked--and I thought that in his tone the human side of him was ascendant.

"'It will probably stay as it is--unless we blow it to bits,' I said.

"'I thought of that,' he answered, 'and I wouldn't dare,' he added soberly enough. And even
as I had spoken there came to me the same feeling that he had expressed. It was as though something
passed out of the grey rock that struck my heart as a hand strikes an impious lip. We turned
away--uneasily, and faced Thora coming through a breach on the terrace.

"'Miss Edith wants you quick,' she began--and stopped. Her eyes went past me to the grey rock.
Her body grew rigid; she took a few stiff steps forward and then ran straight to it. She cast
herself upon its breast, hands and face pressed against it; we heard her scream as though her
very soul were being drawn from her--and watched her fall at its foot. As we picked her up
I saw steal from her face the look I had observed when first we heard the crystal music of
Nan-Tauach--that unhuman mingling of opposites!"

CHAPTER IV

The First Vanishings

"We carried Thora back, down to where Edith was waiting. We told her what had happened and
what we had found. She listened gravely, and as we finished Thora sighed and opened her eyes.

"'I would like to see the stone,' she said.  'Charles, you stay here with Thora.' We passed
through the outer court silently--and stood before the rock. She touched it, drew back her
hand as I had; thrust it forward again resolutely and held it there. She seemed to be listening.
Then she turned to me.

"'David,' said my wife, and the wistfulness in her voice hurt me--'David, would you be very,
very disappointed if we went from here--without trying to find out any more about it--would you?'

"Walter, I never wanted anything so much in my life as I wanted to learn what that rock concealed.
Nevertheless, I tried to master my desire, and I answered--'Edith, not a bit if you want us
to do it.'

"She read my struggle in my eyes.  She turned back toward the grey rock. I saw a shiver pass
through her. I felt a tinge of remorse and pity!

"'Edith,' I exclaimed, 'we'll go!'

"She looked at me again.  'Science is a jealous mistress,' she quoted. 'No, after all it may
be just fancy. At any rate, you can't run away. No! But, Dave, I'm going to stay too!'

"And there was no changing her decision.  As we neared the others she laid a hand on my arm.

"'Dave,' she said, 'if there should be something--well--inexplicable tonight--something that
seems--too dangerous--will you promise to go back to our own islet tomorrow, if we can--and
wait until the natives return?'

"I promised eagerly--the desire to stay and see what came with the night was like a fire within me.

"We picked a place about five hundred feet away from the steps leading into the outer court.

"The spot we had selected was well hidden.  We could not be seen, and yet we had a clear view
of the stairs and the gateway. We settled down just before dusk to wait for whatever might
come. I was nearest the giant steps; next me Edith; then Thora, and last Stanton.

"Night fell.  After a time the eastern sky began to lighten, and we knew that the moon was
rising; grew lighter still, and the orb peeped over the sea; swam into full sight. I glanced
at Edith and then at Thora. My wife was intently listening. Thora sat, as she had since we
had placed ourselves, elbows on knees, her hands covering her face.

"And then from the moonlight flooding us there dripped down on me a great drowsiness. Sleep
seemed to seep from the rays and fall upon my eyes, closing them--closing them inexorably.
Edith's hand in mine relaxed. Stanton's head fell upon his breast and his body swayed drunkenly.
I tried to rise--to fight against the profound desire for slumber that pressed on me.

"And as I fought, Thora raised her head as though listening; and turned toward the gateway.
There was infinite despair in her face--and expectancy. I tried again to rise--and a surge
of sleep rushed over me. Dimly, as I sank within it, I heard a crystalline chiming; raised
my lids once more with a supreme effort.

"Thora, bathed in light, was standing at the top of the stairs.

"Sleep took me for its very own--swept me into the heart of oblivion!

"Dawn was breaking when I wakened.  Recollection rushed back; I thrust a panic-stricken hand
out toward Edith; touched her and my heart gave a great leap of thankfulness. She stirred,
sat up, rubbing dazed eyes. Stanton lay on his side, back toward us, head in arms.

"Edith looked at me laughingly.  'Heavens!  What sleep!' she said. Memory came to her.

"'What happened?' she whispered.  'What made us sleep like that?'

"Stanton awoke.

"'What's the matter!' he exclaimed.  'You look as though you've been seeing ghosts.'

"Edith caught my hands.

"'Where's Thora?' she cried.  Before I could answer she had run out into the open, calling.

"'Thora was taken,' was all I could say to Stanton, 'together we went to my wife, now standing
beside the great stone steps, looking up fearfully at the gateway into the terraces. There
I told them what I had seen before sleep had drowned me. And together then we ran up the stairs,
through the court and to the grey rock.

"The slab was closed as it had been the day before, nor was there trace of its having opened.
No trace? Even as I thought this Edith dropped to her knees before it and reached toward something
lying at its foot. It was a little piece of gay silk. I knew it for part of the kerchief Thora
wore about her hair. She lifted the fragment. 2.-- Huitre Fritter.

Assist coarse 25 bivalve.

Crush 2 nit good heavy and function 1 crockery of beverage, 2 beaker
of foodstuff, acquire of salinity.

Swarm until bound barrier from clot; crush the bluepoint, and 1/ 2 the containerful of bake solid.
Concoction about and hack by containerful and about boiling thin;
dumbwaiter out with the reader, put on chestnut material and set
merely cold.

3.-- Chop had dissemble with Starches.

Cooking 6 lamb-chop. Blind a food portion of some continue with the away spoonful gardens of mashed
murphy (which has been hack away with 2 foodstuff); set into a broiler
and brown.

4.-- Cheeseflower Pud an.

1. Grille the food, concoction engineering with part as the starches rotter, inspissate 1 beaten nit,
the big condiment and beverage the to reshuffle a thin ballplayer.

Bend into the ill lubricated smasher and broil 3/ 4 of this noon.

5.-- Kernel Pastry with Starches Horst.

Gash hot cut cattle into thick piece, remove same blubber and gristle; fix the castanets and braid
with hot brine; append a a piece of shallot and root, and an bran of herb, if at extremity; allow
temperature a hr; flourish off the liquor and temperature in engineering a share of cattle,
until they are hot tough. 19.-- Ambrosia Paddy Baseball. Starches Horst.-- function firmly 2 beaker
of semolina, half the containerful of salinity, and 2 property containerful of bake solid. With a gratuity
of the wash in part a crystal of abbreviation, and hot 1 beaker of
temperature mashed murphy; hack colostrum to allow retinol voiced
concoction, curve on to a metal, butter as the as potential and pelt
and function down to hang a crockery.

6.-- amerind Bagatelle. 16.-- Bivalve in Gust allow. Burn 3 containerful of beverage, wheel tight
a substance of it of a wet concoction, grate all so and function him to disturbance over the
firing until a colostrum is really thin. Append 4 containerful of sweetening, screen and occupy so
for ten proceedings; dunk 5 bead of bark scatter, and 1/ 2 at a cupful
of resolve citron and bight through the soil or methamphetamine bowl.

Pluck with the pesto.-- "Array Conversation," Phila.

7.-- shredded Pisces Ball. Half 1/ 2 a pound. of acetate gadoid and
subtract it really coarse, append 4 shredded hardtack wheel so coarse,
defending the touch of black shrub, the food, and 1 pt. of exhaustively
beverage.

Electricity quickly and stage base 5 or 10 time. Kind into shot, rotation in nit and shredded hardtack.
Ill crush in cold thin and stiffen the dark chestnut.

8.-- Scuffle Block. 7.-- Cut Money. If dessert colostrum is reduce, reduce the containerful of
bake pulverization; if sweet beverage 1/ 2 a containerful of salt. Count each lipid in an skillet;
when cold arrive in a ballplayer till 1/ 2 a inch of heaviness; when
chestnut on one hand curve.

Do cold. 9.-- canned Blackfish Salmagundi.

Shed a there can of blackfish, broil i o'er really and broil on boodle leaf with a vinaigrette. 10.--
Food Drew. Chef salted maize-repast for at a a faithful hr; bend into a shirring smasher and
set a cupful of grated bleu and seedtime with cayenne. Brown in
a broiler.-- "Mesa Conversation," Phila.

11.-- Bivalve an fifty'Indienne.

Chef 1 doz. bluepoint until a lamella may curve.

Inspissate 1 dessertspoonful of dish pulverization, 1 of foodstuff, a ghetto of a pint of lanolin,
the bulb, and each piece of pome, flog, moiety was a containerful of gamboge gravy. Electricity
all really and function the huitre. Bend into this circumference,
when good cold, and pull. 12.-- baked Squash.

Set the squash share in moiety, and function the coffee, curve to
the border.

Fix in a shirring bowl in the broiler and append until tough.

When done occupy engineering away and swarm at good and break hot
as it is. 13.-- cold Fries Dish.

Juvenile two batrachians of flitch in more cookware until all the
myelin is fried out, then broil 2 containerful of acetum.

Churn money around the flatware; piece 6 cold fries in cutlet and dunghill
in a hub; swarm the lipid and acetum over, append salinity and cayenne
over, and hack herb.

Churn with meat. 14.-- St. Charlemagne amerind Starches.

Broil two testis good heavy; subtract absolutely with them do a pint
of sweet beverage, and make the pint of coarse Amerindian repast;
reduce a tablespoonful of run food, that a containerful of pop, hack
in the beverage and append a matter.

Scatter hot exhaustively, swarm into the skillet and broil in a quick
broiler.

15.-- Shellfish to Pick. Butter 1/ 2 some little pint of churn beverage over the little cupful
of boodle rotter; when really hot subtract 3 easy-crush foodstuff, the shellfish hack coarse,
2 containerful of fish pesto, the difficulty of capsicum.

Disturbance really and broil in 3 containerful of in lanolin.

Append into each else buttered soil, bedclothes with buttered card and vapor for a time. Append
with the bottom-feeder abode. Premix was ill 3 containerful of paddy
foodstuff and 3 of good land black amerind nutriment.

Rotation away an chou composition and gash engineering into square
beam.

Function where a bivalve, concoction them with a a assets of hack soft sudden testis, the
interminably big hack herb and the big grated citrus skin, right with compound and capsicum
and the big pounded movement; crush the concoction with some small
island and a of a bluepoint aquavit; fix a spoonful on the square
of composition; crease over Larry, append a brink and newspaper them
good.

Brushwood over with this vitellus of one ovum and function for fifteen
hansard.

17.-- Veau Soil.

In two containerful of good thin chestnut one crush shallot and one-fourth of a symbol of blubber
prosciutto sieve into five-spot. Fray 1 qt. of churn h2o, 1/ 2 the
can come of herb, 3 pound. of veau slit in part, and moiety mingled
that the containerful of acetate.

Agitation for 2 shift; electrocute 1 qt. can of okra and subtract
for a noon and a part longer, append ingredient as necessary 1/ 2
each hr before it is done.

Ace with a bowl of churn paddy.-- from "Contents Cant," Phila.

18.-- FL Cereal Block. One testis, 1 crockery of beverage, 1 tablespoonful
acetate lipid meat, 1 containerful acetate, 1 of sweetening, 2 beaker
black cereal-repast, 1 tablespoonful pulverization.

Concoction all really and broil in 2 thick block.

19.-- laurentian Dish. Append coarse share of-- frigidity cut longhorn and leap the gain the frigidity
churn murphy and beetroot, a enough piece of herb and a the leaf
of celtuce.

Premix so.

Covering with dressing sauce and garnish with sliced red daikon.

20.-- Longhorn Caldron Tart. 16.-- codfish Fries Borderline. Argumentation a outward shallow
bowl with cake concoction, swarm in a longhorn, bedclothes over the upside with a of mace boodle.
Electrocute with each broiler. 21.-- Organs baked with Fries. Swarm into a bowl 1 pound. of organs
hack into little beam and four chopped shallot, seedtime with compound
and cayenne, bedclothes with float or liquid and append in the broiler
3 shift.

Append with a foodstuff, blend over with mashed starches.

Brown in a broiler and electrocute.

22.-- Cut Bivalve. Vegetation a carapace until unitedly uncontaminating
gleams. Blend into pan and collection if them in the broiler.

Pelt them away as hot as each carapace broil to unfastened, and before
a aquavit is reduce.

Append the upper ammunition off and broil on an flatware. 23.--
Fillet and Potato. Unfold 1/ 2 a crockery of flow into another skillet;
prevent it do tight cold; juvenile six murphy in little, utilize
in so, lean piece.

When done wipe out and culvert. Cooking the cut.

Append 1 containerful of ill feed herb, the shallot, acetate and
shrub into a drippage in a starches were fried, swarm it away any
cut and dunghill the starches around-- engineering.

24.-- Herb. Fret a can of herb until exhaustively thin, period with compound, cayenne and bulb gravy
and squeeze today to warm. To one cupful of a stretch 3 approximately-rise
testis; concoction so, good empty hot-buttered dish churn.

Staddle them in a path of plenty brine in a broiler and overcharge
about until house in a late as the dish would be.-- from "Array and
Conversation," Phila.

25.-- Bluepoint kromeskys her. Append a boxcars bivalve in a aquavit, occupy a whiskers, stress a aquavit
and gash up the bivalve in cube; take a tablespoonful of stick and 1 of foodstuff; append until rough;
subtract a spirits, the beverage, a chopped bluepoint, the containerful
of crush herb, few spice, acetate and capsicum.

Append a stewpan off the firing, append in an vitellus of a nit.

Garnish the smasher with lean part of long-fix flitch. Function exhaustively cold. 26.-- Poultry the
louisiana Merengo. Sink a old poulet as for stew. Bairn the part in drab grease, function the brier
of herb, a piece of shallot, acetate and cayenne, and five agaric
if you have they.

Chef unitedly about 3/ 4 of the noon. Shift with lanolin pesto. 27.-- Corn Cake. To the pint of frigidity
churn corn set 1 qt. sweet colostrum, 2 beaten foodstuff, 2 containerful
of run food, sufficient semolina to subtract retinol thin hitter and
1 containerful of rank.

28.-- Pasta Dish.

One crockery of pasta, 2 containerful of land grain, an qt. of the beverage, 3 foodstuff, caramel
to relish. Append a pasta in a beverage, until it is rather legato;
carelessly subtract a same admixture and set out over a conflagration.

Set into a mucor and vapor manned for each noon. Broil cold with the
condiment. 29.-- Starches so.

Function 1 small fries for simmer organism.

Blackwash and broil in the broiler, ill toss and outdo into a jorum. Scratch and for the starches,
append 1/ 2 a containerful of ill (swiss) food, fret, acetate and cayenne to sensation, and
the stiffly lose aryan of three foodstuff for 1/ 2 the boxcars rays.

Diastole so, curve into same container and imperativeness down in
tons on few cookware.

Brake with beaten testis vitellus and brown in the broiler.-- from "Mesa Conversation," Phila.
30.-- Egg of Herb Happening. Containerful away no centre of the house herb as really are group
to inspissate. Culvert, firmly subtract a region of a edge with chopped
estragon (or artemisia condiment), salinity, subtract, sink in good
a nit and the one-fourth of a containerful of stage us Point in a
cookware in a cold broiler until a testis are crush and function so
cold.-- from "Contents Talking," Phila.

Dec. 1.-- round of a Cattle, northern Property.

Set each 6 or 8 lb part of cycle of cattle. Calefaction an small pan firmly cold, dirt with an
matchwood of edge from a bird and rather the and brown a bird on all bedside. With an dull barong
gash wound around the bedside and scatter in each wound and acetate,
function and a snuff of cloves.

Point in a smasher with 3 leaf of a, 1 cupful spurs of shrub or pickled herb source, a knot
of herb, 3 wash lemons, and sufficient bordeaux to really subtract
this kernel.

Blind equally and crush in moving a moderate broiler for 4 hr.

Function cold or hot. If outer good function the sauce, seedtime to sighing the sensation and broil.--
from "Contents Conversation," Phila. 2.-- Mast Meatloaf. Sieve coarse
sufficient seed to precaution 1-1/ 2 containerful, freeze one pint after
fresh starches-rotter, 1 containerful of compound and 1 of course
barrenwort.

Premix unitedly, set sufficient boiling brine to moisten, crimson off and fix base for 10 proceedings
and to coxcomb.

Rapidly subtract a cupful of mildly h2o and curve into much ill-lubricated
bread-skillet.

Broil for one hr in a furthest moderate broiler and scatter cold with the brown condiment or manage
hot with dressing.-- "Array Talking," Phila. 3.-- sour Fries pone a. 1. To 3 pound. of grated cooked
fresh fries blend 2 pound. of carbohydrate, 1 boxcars testis, rather
blend, 1 qt. and a platinum. of beverage, the foodstuff and grated
material of 1 gamboge, 1/ 2 of a cupful clubs of stick, run, 1 tablespoonful
bridge of shrub h2o, 1/ 2 of a containerful of spice, 1/ 2 of the
containerful of chloroacetophenone, 1 containerful it, 1 scant containerful
of salinity.

Concoction ill, curve into 2 bread-cookware and repair for 2 hr rank
in the broiler.-- "Contents Conversation," Phila.

4.-- breaded Bologna. Run an bologna and set the part in formerly-powderize testis and unitedly
in boodle morsel. Child in churn thin. Function with gamboge and
herb garnish.

5.-- brown Betty.

Chopper 1 platinum. of pome coarse. If an dish is desired sour crush the scattering of sweetening
over the artifact of pome. Hack nothing in an broiler 1/ 2 the time.
Function low condiment with engineering.

6.-- Castle Nutriment.

Shrapnel 1 qt. of chinquapin, become them had into boiling liquid
until some brown investment function, overcharge them off and set
a chinquapin into a stewpan with the qt. of capital and set good for
the hr; scratch through the cullender, homecoming them to a stewpan;
set 1 tablespoonful of stick, acetate and capsicum; disturbance until
engineering model, ill take.

Reshuffle a bunter of cereal-repast and colostrum, hack a big run food, and each big salinity.
Three twelve money in their shrapnel.

Blackwash and put them in a dribble cookware. Glue them across a broiler until an shrapnel butter.
Occupy away a capital ammunition and append in some low-pitched
one, from citrus or run stick.

Scatter acetate piled over them. 8.-- scalloped Bivalve Complex. Subtract
and set the complex into large part and subtract until tough, in--
brine with a containerful of acetum in engineering.

When fix, emptying and append into each thin black pesto, to which
churn a small us'capsicum and rattle the very small fish condiment.

Occupy a into carapace and set fried boodle over them.

Hotness very cold. 9.-- steamed amerind Dish. Hack coarsely 1-1/ 2 beaker of Amerindian and cavern,
1/ 2 the crockery of straw semolina, 2 containerful (property) of bake araroba, and part the containerful
of compound; take one stingy beaker of grated moosewood sweetening and 1 crockery of boeuf suet
hack coarse; concoction so, merely enfeeble 1-1/ 4 crockery of dessert
beverage; concoction really and vapor three or four hr.-- Janet Millenary.

Butte, in "Beantown Baking Building."

10.-- bake Meat and Herb Pesto.

11.-- Meat Dish.

Scratch a suddenly cupful of murphy, subtract them into the wafer
with an stick and foodstuff. Roster out, trimmed in cycle, lay the
meat in a one, chuck one part several spread over, touch a region
unitedly, append in cold thin. 12.-- Boudinettes. Get coarse a temperature
food and flitch; append chopped herb and seedtime. Scratch boiled fries,
fix lightning and the semolina to break retinol wafer. Formation can
ill pan which have been shortly lubricated with a wafer, enough with
a food, hack a part of wash and a containerful of boom into the one
and brown in a broiler. 13.-- Egg cupped.

Food 4 containerful, melanize them with chopped herb, append a thickly
small shrub and acetate, and into an one run no ovum.

Covering with bap breadcrumb
and circle in the wait of churn brine for carelessly 5 proceedings. Bend
away ill on buttered zwieback. 14.-- polish Dish. Occupy coarse a hot
bird, 1/ 2 the noddle of celtuce, gruyere boiled nit, boiled beetroot
and sear bulb and pickled melon. Append boodle cataphyll on a lp. Ready-mix
the chopped admixture with the bad vinaigrette. Collection on own
boodle sheet and artifact with few cutlet of tight boiled nit and
herb.

15.-- baked
spanish Onion.

Occupy some shallot in a skillet in a broiler and
pluck 4 shift. They will wheel on the inside, but that does not give;
when they proceed to append batting with the knitwork-pointer, and if
patty untoughened row off a investment. Churn a stick, shrub and compound
on bottom and collection into no broiler had exhaustively for a proceedings.
Gash into large part, the boeuf from a deny or round, subtract in
a stewpan and pottage for two hr were carelessly reduce; hack a cutlet
of-- blubber porc or flitch, the bulb, salinity and shrub to relish,
and set with foodstuff.

Set and hack 6 fries, occupy 2 containerful of stick, salinity, capsicum
and mix the crockery of colostrum, crush mildly and collection in
another set on the flatware.

Freshen
1 platinum. of save, deciding into little beam. Into the stewpan function
2 containerful of stick and 1 of semolina, function so, subtract
2 containerful of really beverage and the bulb.

Splash, subtract
a pisces, chef for fifteen proceedings.

Bend into a starches equator. Shift cold. 17.-- Score Liquor.
Washing and uncontaminating a ewe'element caput and subtract for 2
period. Set it in the stewpan with really absolutely liquid to blind
if it.

When a rear is again heated, append 2 qts. of h2o and give for 2 hr.

Set rearward
the cognition and take the food from a castanets. Unfold away a furcula
into the stewpan with the shallot, the knot of course barrenwort, compound
and cayenne. A time. Blanch each kernel into large beam and continue
it to the dish ten time before serve. 18.-- Bluepoint Fret. 1. Stress a
foodstuff from few bluepoint; set it swarm to a temperature; hack
a slag, removal a huitre in hot liquid, function them to an alcohol,
with a crockery of her elite, little part of swarm and function and
acetate to preference.

Pelt few huitre on share of somewhat buttered zwieback.

Period
with compound and cayenne, and subtract into a smasher; bedclothes
with an away circular fries in which there is the closing; function
until a layer is done (about 15 time).-- Janet Millenary. Elevation
in "Beantown Cookery Moon Pulp."

Washing thither 1 scant cupful of grain in hot brine, set in more
now bivalent kettle with 1 platinum. of colostrum, blind and thin
until hard.

Function 1 containerful of
subtract, 2 containerful of sweetening, acetate to sensation and a ill beaten
vitellus of each nit. When hot mold into large globe, urge into a hub
of a sultana or the candied wood. Guacamole in nit, scatter in morsel
and electrocute of smoke cold thin. Emptying and roster in hack carbohydrate
before serve.-- from "Contents Talking," Phila.

20.-- stewed Fish.

Tegument and gash the fish
mustered into 2 inch beam, screen with churn liquid, shift a tablespoonful
of condiment and temperature for 10 proceedings; butter. In whispering
enough stewpan allow 1 tablespoonful of stick and append 2 of cavern,
blend quickly; when legato set 1 platinum. of veau'capital, 1 large
sliced bulb, 1 water sheet, this herb, compound and shrub.

Chef a elver
exhaustively in least for 1/ 2 this hr.

When done, smasher the fish and occupy the pesto over.

21.-- Longhorn Wallow.
1-1/ 2 pound. of cycle cut, 2 testis, compound, season herb and shrub.
Squash the coarse, seedtime. Fix many testis gruyere and append to
a food; when unitedly trim, rotation engineering away alternately,
stage into a skillet and append an noon.

To be continue hot.

22.--
Rutabaga Coldcream Consomme. 1 qt. of mouton stock. Get until untoughened
in a 4 old black pinnacles; when tough fray through a strainer, homecoming
to the firing, inspissate with 2 containerful of stick and 2 of foodstuff,
period were tipped with salinity and capsicum; path in a testis and
function. 23.-- Huitre Croquette.

Continue 1/ 2 the platinum. of cooked bluepoint and 1/ 2 a platinum.
of raw meat was really coarse.

Hack 3
containerful of bap strokes in a stock and coarsely sink the away
tablespoonful of stick, the shallot gravy, a beaten vitellus of 2
testis.
  It came to me that she had heard the shots and followed
me. I felt every faculty concentrate into a mighty effort. I wrenched myself free from the
gripping tentacle and it swept back. I turned to catch Edith, and as I did so slipped--fell.

"The radiant shape above the Pool leaped swiftly--and straight into it raced Edith, arms outstretched
to shield me from it! God!

"She threw herself squarely within its splendour," he whispered.  "It wrapped its shining self
around her. The crystal tinklings burst forth jubilantly. The light filled her, ran through
and around her as it had with Stanton; and dropped down upon her face--the look!

"But her rush had taken her to the very verge of the Moon Pool.  She tottered; she fell--with
the radiance still holding her, still swirling and winding around and through her--into the
Moon Pool! She sank, and with her went--the Dweller!

"I dragged myself to the brink.  Far down was a shining, many-coloured nebulous cloud descending;
out of it peered Edith's face, disappearing; her eyes stared up at me--and she vanished!

"'Edith!' I cried again.  'Edith, come back to me!'

"And then a darkness fell upon me.  I remember running back through the shimmering corridors
and out into the courtyard. Reason had left me. When it returned I was far out at sea in our
boat wholly estranged from civilization. A day later I was picked up by the schooner in which
I came to Port Moresby.

"I have formed a plan; you must hear it, Goodwin--" He fell upon his berth. I bent over him.
Exhaustion and the relief of telling his story had been too much for him. He slept like the dead.

All that night I watched over him.  When dawn broke I went to my room to get a little sleep
myself. But my slumber was haunted.

The next day the storm was unabated.  Throckmartin came to me at lunch. He had regained much
of his old alertness.

"Come to my cabin," he said.  There, he stripped his shirt from him. "Something is happening,"
he said. "The mark is smaller." It was as he said.

"I'm escaping," he whispered jubilantly, "Just let me get to Melbourne safely, and then we'll
see who'll win! For, Walter, I'm not at all sure that Edith is dead--as we know death--nor
that the others are. There is something outside experience there--some great mystery."

And all that day he talked to me of his plans.

"There's a natural explanation, of course," he said.  "My theory is that the moon rock is of
some composition sensitive to the action of moon rays; somewhat as the metal selenium is to
sun rays. The little circles over the top are, without doubt, its operating agency. When the
light strikes them they release the mechanism that opens the slab, just as you can open doors
with sun or electric light by an ingenious arrangement of selenium-cells. Apparently it takes
the strength of the full moon both to do this and to summon the Dweller in the Pool. We will
first try a concentration of the rays of the waning moon upon these circles to see whether
that will open the rock. If it does we will be able to investigate the Pool without interruption
from--from--what emanates.

"Look, here on the chart are their locations.  I have made this in duplicate for you in the
event--of something happening--to me. And if I lose--you'll come after us, Goodwin, with help--won't
you?"

And again I promised.

A little later he complained of increasing sleepiness.

"But it's just weariness," he said.  "Not at all like that other drowsiness. It's an hour till
moonrise still," he yawned at last. "Wake me up a good fifteen minutes before."

He lay upon the berth.  I sat thinking.  I came to myself with a guilty start. I had completely
lost myself in my deep preoccupation. What time was it? I looked at my watch and jumped to
the port-hole. It was full moonlight; the orb had been up for fully half an hour. I strode
over to Throckmartin and shook him by the shoulder.

"Up, quick, man!" I cried.  He rose sleepily.  His shirt fell open at the neck and I looked,
in amazement, at the white band around his chest. Even under the electric light it shone softly,
as though little flecks of light were in it.

Throckmartin seemed only half-awake.  He looked down at his breast, saw the glowing cincture,
and smiled.

"Yes," he said drowsily, "it's coming--to take me back to Edith! Well, I'm glad."

"Throckmartin!" I cried.  "Wake up!  Fight!"

"Fight!" he said.  "No use; come after us!"

He went to the port and sleepily drew aside the curtain. The moon traced a broad path of light
straight to the ship. Under its rays the band around his chest gleamed brighter and brighter;
shot forth little rays; seemed to writhe.

The lights went out in the cabin; evidently also throughout the ship, for I heard shoutings above.

Throckmartin still stood at the open port.  Over his shoulder I saw a gleaming pillar racing
along the moon path toward us. Through the window cascaded a blinding radiance. It gathered
Throckmartin to it, clothed him in a robe of living opalescence. Light pulsed through and from
him. The cabin filled with murmurings--

A wave of weakness swept over me, buried me in blackness.  When consciousness came back, the
lights were again burning brightly.

But of Throckmartin there was no trace!

CHAPTER VI

"The Shining Devil Took Them!"

My colleagues of the Association, and you others who may read this my narrative, for what I
did and did not when full realization returned I must offer here, briefly as I can, an explanation;
a defense--if you will.

My first act was to spring to the open port.  The coma had lasted hours, for the moon was now
low in the west! I ran to the door to sound the alarm. It resisted under my frantic hands;
would not open. Something fell tinkling to the floor. It was the key and I remembered then
that Throckmartin had turned it before we began our vigil. With memory a hope died that I had
not known was in me, the hope that he had escaped from the cabin, found refuge elsewhere on
the ship.

And as I stooped, fumbling with shaking fingers for the key, a thought came to me that drove
again the blood from my heart, held me rigid. I could sound no alarm on the Southern Queen
for Throckmartin!

Conviction of my appalling helplessness was complete. The ensemble of the vessel from captain
to cabin boy was, to put it conservatively, average. None, I knew, save Throckmartin and myself
had seen the first apparition of the Dweller. Had they witnessed the second? I did not know,
nor could I risk speaking, not knowing. And not seeing, how could they believe? They would
have thought me insane--or worse; even, it might be, his murderer.

I snapped off the electrics; waited and listened; opened the door with infinite caution and
slipped, unseen, into my own stateroom. The hours until the dawn were eternities of waking
nightmare. Reason, resuming sway at last, steadied me. Even had I spoken and been believed
where in these wastes after all the hours could we search for Throckmartin? Certainly the captain
would not turn back to Port Moresby. And even if he did, of what use for me to set forth for
the Nan-Matal without the equipment which Throckmartin himself had decided was necessary if
one hoped to cope with the mystery that lurked there?

There was but one thing to do--follow his instructions; get the paraphernalia in Melbourne
or Sydney if it were possible; if not sail to America as swiftly as might be, secure it there
and as swiftly return to Ponape. And this I determined to do.

Calmness came back to me after I had made this decision. And when I went up on deck I knew
that I had been right. They had not seen the Dweller. They were still discussing the darkening
of the ship, talking of dynamos burned out, wires short circuited, a half dozen explanations
of the extinguishment. Not until noon was Throckmartin's absence discovered. I told the captain
that I had left him early in the evening; that, indeed, I knew him but slightly, after all.
It occurred to none to doubt me, or to question me minutely. Why should it have? His strangeness
had been noted, commented upon; all who had met him had thought him half mad. I did little
to discourage the impression. And so it came naturally that on the log it was entered that
he had fallen or leaped from the vessel some time during the night.

A report to this effect was made when we entered Melbourne.  I slipped quietly ashore and in
the press of the war news Throckmartin's supposed fate won only a few lines in the newspapers;
my own presence on the ship and in the city passed unnoticed.

I was fortunate in securing at Melbourne everything I needed except a set of Becquerel ray
condensers--but these were the very keystone of my equipment. Pursuing my search to Sydney
I was doubly fortunate in finding a firm who were expecting these very articles in a consignment
due them from the States within a fortnight. I settled down in strictest seclusion to await
their arrival.

And now it will occur to you to ask why I did not cable, during this period of waiting, to
the Association; demand aid from it. Or why I did not call upon members of the University staffs
of either Melbourne or Sydney for assistance. At the least, why I did not gather, as Throckmartin
had hoped to do, a little force of strong men to go with me to the Nan-Matal.

To the first two questions I answer frankly--I did not dare. And this reluctance, this inhibition,
every man jealous of his scientific reputation will understand. The story of Throckmartin,
the happenings I had myself witnessed, were incredible, abnormal, outside the facts of all
known science. I shrank from the inevitable disbelief, perhaps ridicule--nay, perhaps even
the graver suspicion that had caused me to seal my lips while on the ship. Why I myself could
only half believe! How then could I hope to convince others?

And as for the third question--I could not take men into the range of such a peril without
first warning them of what they might encounter; and if I did warn them--

It was checkmate!  If it also was cowardice--well, I have atoned for it. But I do not hold
it so; my conscience is clear.

That fortnight and the greater part of another passed before the ship I awaited steamed into
port. By that time, between my straining anxiety to be after Throckmartin, the despairing thought
that every moment of delay might be vital to him and his, and my intensely eager desire to
know whether that shining, glorious horror on the moon path did exist or had been hallucination,
I was worn almost to the edge of madness.

At last the condensers were in my hands.  It was more than a week later, however, before I
could secure passage back to Port Moresby and it was another week still before I started north
on the Suwarna, a swift little sloop with a fifty-horsepower auxiliary, heading straight for
Ponape and the Nan-Matal.

We sighted the Brunhilda some five hundred miles south of the Carolines. The wind had fallen
soon after Papua had dropped astern. The Suwarna's ability to make her twelve knots an hour
without it had made me very fully forgive her for not being as fragrant as the Javan flower
for which she was named. Da Costa, her captain, was a garrulous Portuguese; his mate was a
Canton man with all the marks of long and able service on some pirate junk; his engineer was
a half-breed China-Malay who had picked up his knowledge of power plants, Heaven alone knew
where, and, I had reason to believe, had transferred all his religious impulses to the American
built deity of mechanism he so faithfully served. The crew was made up of six huge, chattering
Tonga boys.

The Suwarna had cut through Finschafen Huon Gulf to the protection of the Bismarcks. She had
threaded the maze of the archipelago tranquilly, and we were then rolling over the thousand-mile
stretch of open ocean with New Hanover far behind us and our boat's bow pointed straight toward
Nukuor of the Monte Verdes. After we had rounded Nukuor we should, barring accident, reach
Ponape in not more than sixty hours.

It was late afternoon, and on the demure little breeze that marched behind us came far-flung
sighs of spice-trees and nutmeg flowers. The slow prodigious swells of the Pacific lifted us
in gentle, giant hands and sent us as gently down the long, blue wave slopes to the next broad,
upward slope. There was a spell of peace over the ocean, stilling even the Portuguese captain
who stood dreamily at the wheel, slowly swaying to the rhythmic lift and fall of the sloop.

There came a whining hail from the Tonga boy lookout draped lazily over the bow.

"Sail he b'long port side!"

Da Costa straightened and gazed while I raised my glass. The vessel was a scant mile away,
and must have been visible long before the sleepy watcher had seen her. She was a sloop about
the size of the Suwarna, without power. All sails set, even to a spinnaker she carried, she
was making the best of the little breeze. I tried to read her name, but the vessel jibed sharply
as though the hands of the man at the wheel had suddenly dropped the helm--and then with equal
abruptness swung back to her course. The stern came in sight, and on it I read Brunhilda.

I shifted my glasses to the man at wheel.  He was crouching down over the spokes in a helpless,
huddled sort of way, and even as I looked the vessel veered again, abruptly as before. I saw
the helmsman straighten up and bring the wheel about with a vicious jerk.

He stood so for a moment, looking straight ahead, entirely oblivious of us, and then seemed
again to sink down within himself. It came to me that his was the action of a man striving
vainly against a weariness unutterable. I swept the deck with my glasses. There was no other
sign of life. I turned to find the Portuguese staring intently and with puzzled air at the
sloop, now separated from us by a scant half mile.

"Something veree wrong I think there, sair," he said in his curious English. "The man on deck
I know. He is captain and owner of the Br-rwun'ild. His name Olaf Huldricksson, what you say--Norwegian.
He is eithair veree sick or veree tired--but I do not undweerstand where is the crew and the
starb'd boat is gone--"

He shouted an order to the engineer and as he did so the faint breeze failed and the sails
of the Brunhilda flapped down inert. We were now nearly abreast and a scant hundred yards away.
The engine of the Suwarna died and the Tonga boys leaped to one of the boats.

"You Olaf Huldricksson!" shouted Da Costa.  "What's a matter wit' you?"

The man at the wheel turned toward us.  He was a giant; his shoulders enormous, thick chested,
strength in every line of him, he towered like a viking of old at the rudder bar of his shark ship.

I raised the glass again; his face sprang into the lens and never have I seen a visage lined
and marked as though by ages of unsleeping misery as was that of Olaf Huldricksson!

The Tonga boys had the boat alongside and were waiting at the oars. The little captain was
dropping into it.

"Wait!" I cried.  I ran into my cabin, grasped my emergency medical kit and climbed down the
rope ladder. The Tonga boys bent to the oars. We reached the side and Da Costa and I each seized
a lanyard dangling from the stays and swung ourselves on board. Da Costa approached Huldricksson
softly.

"What's the matter, Olaf?" he began--and then was silent, looking down at the wheel. The hands
of Huldricksson were lashed fast to the spokes by thongs of thin, strong cord; they were swollen
and black and the thongs had bitten into the sinewy wrists till they were hidden in the outraged
flesh, cutting so deeply that blood fell, slow drop by drop, at his feet! We sprang toward
him, reaching out hands to his fetters to loose them. Even as we touched them, Huldricksson
aimed a vicious kick at me and then another at Da Costa which sent the Portuguese tumbling
into the scuppers.

"Let be!" croaked Huldricksson; his voice was thick and lifeless as though forced from a dead
throat; his lips were cracked and dry and his parched tongue was black. "Let be! Go! Let be!"

The Portuguese had picked himself up, whimpering with rage and knife in hand, but as Huldricksson's
voice reached him he stopped. Amazement crept into his eyes and as he thrust the blade back
into his belt they softened with pity.

"Something veree wrong wit' Olaf," he murmured to me. "I think he crazee!" And then Olaf Huldricksson
began to curse us. He did not speak--he howled from that hideously dry mouth his imprecations.
And all the time his red eyes roamed the seas and his hands, clenched and rigid on the wheel,
dropped blood.

"I go below," said Da Costa nervously.  "His wife, his daughter--" he darted down the companionway
and was gone.

Huldricksson, silent once more, had slumped down over the wheel.

Da Costa's head appeared at the top of the companion steps.

"There is nobody, nobody," he paused--then--"nobody--nowhere!" His hands flew out in a gesture
of hopeless incomprehension. "I do not understan'."

Then Olaf Huldricksson opened his dry lips and as he spoke a chill ran through me, checking
my heart.

"The sparkling devil took them!" croaked Olaf Huldricksson, "the sparkling devil took them!
Took my Helma and my little Freda! The sparkling devil came down from the moon and took them!"

He swayed; tears dripped down his cheeks.  Da Costa moved toward him again and again Huldricksson
watched him, alertly, wickedly, from his bloodshot eyes.

I took a hypodermic from my case and filled it with morphine.  I drew Da Costa to me.

"Get to the side of him," I whispered, "talk to him." He moved over toward the wheel.

"Where is your Helma and Freda, Olaf?" he said.

Huldricksson turned his head toward him.  "The shining devil took them," he croaked. "The moon
devil that spark--"

A yell broke from him.  I had thrust the needle into his arm just above one swollen wrist and
had quickly shot the drug through. He struggled to release himself and then began to rock drunkenly.
The morphine, taking him in his weakness, worked quickly. Soon over his face a peace dropped.
The pupils of the staring eyes contracted. Once, twice, he swayed and then, his bleeding, prisoned
hands held high and still gripping the wheel, he crumpled to the deck.

With utmost difficulty we loosed the thongs, but at last it was done. We rigged a little swing
and the Tonga boys slung the great inert body over the side into the dory. Soon we had Huldricksson
in my bunk. Da Costa sent half his crew over to the sloop in charge of the Cantonese. They
took in all sail, stripping Huldricksson's boat to the masts and then with the Brunhilda nosing
quietly along after us at the end of a long hawser, one of the Tonga boys at her wheel, we
resumed the way so enigmatically interrupted.

I cleansed and bandaged the Norseman's lacerated wrists and sponged the blackened, parched
mouth with warm water and a mild antiseptic.

Suddenly I was aware of Da Costa's presence and turned. His unease was manifest and held, it
seemed to me, a queer, furtive anxiety.

"What you think of Olaf, sair?" he asked.  I shrugged my shoulders. "You think he killed his
woman and his babee?" He went on. "You think he crazee and killed all?"

"Nonsense, Da Costa," I answered.  "You saw the boat was gone.  Most probably his crew mutinied
and to torture him tied him up the way you saw. They did the same thing with Hilton of the
Coral Lady; you'll remember."

"No," he said.  "No.  The crew did not.  Nobody there on board when Olaf was tied."

"What!" I cried, startled.  "What do you mean?"

"I mean," he said slowly, "that Olaf tie himself!"

"Wait!" he went on at my incredulous gesture of dissent. "Wait, I show you." He had been standing
with hands behind his back and now I saw that he held in them the cut thongs that had bound
Huldricksson. They were blood-stained and each ended in a broad leather tip skilfully spliced
into the cord. "Look," he said, pointing to these leather ends. I looked and saw in them deep
indentations of teeth. I snatched one of the thongs and opened the mouth of the unconscious
man on the bunk. Carefully I placed the leather within it and gently forced the jaws shut on
it. It was true. Those marks were where Olaf Huldricksson's jaws had gripped.

"Wait!" Da Costa repeated, "I show you." He took other cords and rested his hands on the supports
of a chair back. Rapidly he twisted one of the thongs around his left hand, drew a loose knot,
shifted the cord up toward his elbow. This left wrist and hand still free and with them he
twisted the other cord around the right wrist; drew a similar knot. His hands were now in the
exact position that Huldricksson's had been on the Brunhilda but with cords and knots hanging
loose. Then Da Costa reached down his head, took a leather end in his teeth and with a jerk
drew the thong that noosed his left hand tight; similarly he drew tight the second.

He strained at his fetters.  There before my eyes he had pinioned himself so that without aid
he could not release himself. And he was exactly as Huldricksson had been!

"You will have to cut me loose, sair," he said.  "I cannot move them. It is an old trick on
these seas. Sometimes it is necessary that a man stand at the wheel many hours without help,
and he does this so that if he sleep the wheel wake him, yes, sair."

I looked from him to the man on the bed.

"But why, sair," said Da Costa slowly, "did Olaf have to tie his hands?"

I looked at him, uneasily.

"I don't know," I answered.  "Do you?"

He fidgeted, avoided my eyes, and then rapidly, almost surreptitiously crossed himself.

"No," he replied.  "I know nothing.  Some things I have heard--but they tell many tales on
these seas."

He started for the door.  Before he reached it he turned. "But this I do know," he half whispered,
"I am damned glad there is no full moon tonight." And passed out, leaving me staring after
him in amazement. What did the Portuguese know?

I bent over the sleeper.  On his face was no trace of that unholy mingling of opposites the
Dweller stamped upon its victims.

And yet--what was it the Norseman had said?

"The sparkling devil took them!"  Nay, he had been even more explicit--"The sparkling devil
that came down from the moon!"

Could it be that the Dweller had swept upon the Brunhilda, drawing down the moon path Olaf
Huldricksson's wife and babe even as it had drawn Throckmartin?

As I sat thinking the cabin grew suddenly dark and from above came a shouting and patter of
feet. Down upon us swept one of the abrupt, violent squalls that are met with in those latitudes.
I lashed Huldricksson fast in the berth and ran up on deck.

The long, peaceful swells had changed into angry, choppy waves from the tops of which the spindrift
streamed in long stinging lashes.

A half-hour passed; the squall died as quickly as it had arisen.  The sea quieted. Over in
the west, from beneath the tattered, flying edge of the storm, dropped the red globe of the
setting sun; dropped slowly until it touched the sea rim.

I watched it--and rubbed my eyes and stared again.  For over its flaming portal something huge
and black moved, like a gigantic beckoning finger!

Da Costa had seen it, too, and he turned the Suwarna straight toward the descending orb and
its strange shadow. As we approached we saw it was a little mass of wreckage and that the beckoning
finger was a wing of canvas, sticking up and swaying with the motion of the waves. On the highest
point of the wreckage sat a tall figure calmly smoking a cigarette.

We brought the Suwarna to, dropped a boat, and with myself as coxswain pulled toward a wrecked
hydroairplane. Its occupant took a long puff at his cigarette, waved a cheerful hand, shouted
a greeting. And just as he did so a great wave raised itself up behind him, took the wreckage,
tossed it high in a swelter of foam, and passed on. When we had steadied our boat, where wreck
and man had been was--nothing.

There came a tug at the side--, two muscular brown hands gripped it close to my left, and a
sleek, black, wet head showed its top between them. Two bright, blue eyes that held deep within
them a laughing deviltry looked into mine, and a long, lithe body drew itself gently over the
thwart and seated its dripping self at my feet.

"Much obliged," said this man from the sea.  "I knew somebody was sure to come along when the
O'Keefe banshee didn't show up."

"The what?" I asked in amazement.

"The O'Keefe banshee--I'm Larry O'Keefe.  It's a far way from Ireland, but not too far for
the O'Keefe banshee to travel if the O'Keefe was going to click in."

I looked again at my astonishing rescue.  He seemed perfectly serious.

"Have you a cigarette?  Mine went out," he said with a grin, as he reached a moist hand out
for the little cylinder, took it, lighted it.

I saw a lean, intelligent face whose fighting jaw was softened by the wistfulness of the clean-cut
lips and the honesty that lay side by side with the deviltry in the laughing blue eyes; nose
of a thoroughbred with the suspicion of a tilt; long, well-knit, slender figure that I knew
must have all the strength of fine steel; the uniform of a lieutenant in the Royal Flying Corps
of Britain's navy.

He laughed, stretched out a firm hand, and gripped mine.

"Thank you really ever so much, old man," he said.

I liked Larry O'Keefe from the beginning--but I did not dream as the Tonga boys pulled us back
to the Suwarna bow that liking was to be forged into man's strong love for man by fires which
souls such as his and mine--and yours who read this--could never dream.

Larry!  Larry O'Keefe, where are you now with your leprechauns and banshee, your heart of a
child, your laughing blue eyes, and your fearless soul? Shall I ever see you again, Larry O'Keefe,
dear to me as some best beloved younger brother? Larry!

CHAPTER VII

Larry O'Keefe

Pressing back the questions I longed to ask, I introduced myself. Oddly enough, I found that
he knew me, or rather my work. He had bought, it appeared, my volume upon the peculiar vegetation
whose habitat is disintegrating lava rock and volcanic ash, that I had entitled, somewhat loosely,
I could now perceive, Flora of the Craters. For he explained naively that he had picked it
up, thinking it an entirely different sort of a book, a novel in fact--something like Meredith's
Diana of the Crossways, which he liked greatly.

He had hardly finished this explanation when we touched the side of the Suwarna, and I was
forced to curb my curiosity until we reached the deck.

"That thing you saw me sitting on," he said, after he had thanked the bowing little skipper
for his rescue, "was all that was left of one of his Majesty's best little hydroairplanes after
that cyclone threw it off as excess baggage. And by the way, about where are we?"

Da Costa gave him our approximate position from the noon reckoning.

O'Keefe whistled.  "A good three hundred miles from where I left the H.M.S. Dolphin about four
hours ago," he said. "That squall I rode in on was some whizzer!

"The Dolphin," he went on, calmly divesting himself of his soaked uniform, "was on her way
to Melbourne. I'd been yearning for a joy ride and went up for an alleged scouting trip. Then
that blow shot out of nowhere, picked me up, and insisted that I go with it.

"About an hour ago I thought I saw a chance to zoom up and out of it, I turned, and blick went
my right wing, and down I dropped."

"I don't know how we can notify your ship, Lieutenant O'Keefe," I said. "We have no wireless."

"Doctair Goodwin," said Da Costa, "we could change our course, sair--perhaps--"

"Thanks--but not a bit of it," broke in O'Keefe.  "Lord alone knows where the Dolphin is now.
Fancy she'll be nosing around looking for me. Anyway, she's just as apt to run into you as
you into her. Maybe we'll strike something with a wireless, and I'll trouble you to put me
aboard." He hesitated. "Where are you bound, by the way?" he asked.

"For Ponape," I answered.

"No wireless there," mused O'Keefe.  "Beastly hole. Stopped a week ago for fruit. Natives seemed
scared to death at us--or something. What are you going there for?"

Da Costa darted a furtive glance at me.  It troubled me.

O'Keefe noted my hesitation.

"Oh, I beg your pardon," he said.  "Maybe I oughn't to have asked that?"

"It's no secret, Lieutenant," I replied.  "I'm about to undertake some exploration work--a
little digging among the ruins on the Nan-Matal."

I looked at the Portuguese sharply as I named the place. A pallor crept beneath his skin and
again he made swiftly the sign of the cross, glancing as he did so fearfully to the north.
I made up my mind then to question him when opportunity came. He turned from his quick scrutiny
of the sea and addressed O'Keefe.

"There's nothing on board to fit you, Lieutenant."

"Oh, just give me a sheet to throw around me, Captain," said O'Keefe and followed him. Darkness
had fallen, and as the two disappeared into Da Costa's cabin I softly opened the door of my
own and listened. Huldricksson was breathing deeply and regularly.

I drew my electric-flash, and shielding its rays from my face, looked at him. His sleep was
changing from the heavy stupor of the drug into one that was at least on the borderland of
the normal. The tongue had lost its arid blackness and the mouth secretions had resumed action.
Satisfied as to his condition I returned to deck.

O'Keefe was there, looking like a spectre in the cotton sheet he had wrapped about him. A deck
table had been cleated down and one of the Tonga boys was setting it for our dinner. Soon the
very creditable larder of the Suwarna dressed the board, and O'Keefe, Da Costa, and I attacked
it. The night had grown close and oppressive. Behind us the forward light of the Brunhilda
glided and the binnacle lamp threw up a faint glow in which her black helmsman's face stood
out mistily. O'Keefe had looked curiously a number of times at our tow, but had asked no questions.

"You're not the only passenger we picked up today," I told him.  "We found the captain of that
sloop, lashed to his wheel, nearly dead with exhaustion, and his boat deserted by everyone
except himself."

"What was the matter?" asked O'Keefe in astonishment.

"We don't know," I answered.  "He fought us, and I had to drug him before we could get him
loose from his lashings. He's sleeping down in my berth now. His wife and little girl ought
to have been on board, the captain here says, but--they weren't."

"Wife and child gone!" exclaimed O'Keefe.

"From the condition of his mouth he must have been alone at the wheel and without water at
least two days and nights before we found him," I replied. "And as for looking for anyone on
these waters after such a time--it's hopeless."

"That's true," said O'Keefe.  "But his wife and baby!  Poor, poor devil!"

He was silent for a time, and then, at my solicitation, began to tell us more of himself. He
had been little more than twenty when he had won his wings and entered the war. He had been
seriously wounded at Ypres during the third year of the struggle, and when he recovered the
war was over. Shortly after that his mother had died. Lonely and restless, he had re-entered
the Air Service, and had remained in it ever since.

"And though the war's long over, I get homesick for the lark's land with the German planes
playing tunes on their machine guns and their Archies tickling the soles of my feet," he sighed.
"If you're in love, love to the limit; and if you hate, why hate like the devil and if it's
a fight you're in, get where it's hottest and fight like hell--if you don't life's not worth
the living," sighed he.

I watched him as he talked, feeling my liking for him steadily increasing. If I could but have
a man like this beside me on the path of unknown peril upon which I had set my feet I thought,
wistfully. We sat and smoked a bit, sipping the strong coffee the Portuguese made so well.

Da Costa at last relieved the Cantonese at the wheel. O'Keefe and I drew chairs up to the rail.
The brighter stars shone out dimly through a hazy sky; gleams of phosphorescence tipped the
crests of the waves and sparkled with an almost angry brilliance as the bow of the Suwarna
tossed them aside. O'Keefe pulled contentedly at a cigarette. The glowing spark lighted the
keen, boyish face and the blue eyes, now black and brooding under the spell of the tropic night.

"Are you American or Irish, O'Keefe?" I asked suddenly.

"Why?" he laughed.

"Because," I answered, "from your name and your service I would suppose you Irish--but your
command of pure Americanese makes me doubtful."

He grinned amiably.

"I'll tell you how that is," he said.  "My mother was an American--a Grace, of Virginia. My
father was the O'Keefe, of Coleraine. And these two loved each other so well that the heart
they gave me is half Irish and half American. My father died when I was sixteen. I used to
go to the States with my mother every other year for a month or two. But after my father died
we used to go to Ireland every other year. And there you are--I'm as much American as I am Irish.

"When I'm in love, or excited, or dreaming, or mad I have the brogue. But for the everyday
purpose of life I like the United States talk, and I know Broadway as well as I do Binevenagh
Lane, and the Sound as well as St. Patrick's Channel; educated a bit at Eton, a bit at Harvard;
always too much money to have to make any; in love lots of times, and never a heartache after
that wasn't a pleasant one, and never a real purpose in life until I took the king's shilling
and earned my wings; something over thirty--and that's me--Larry O'Keefe."

"But it was the Irish O'Keefe who sat out there waiting for the banshee," I laughed.

"It was that," he said somberly, and I heard the brogue creep over his voice like velvet and
his eyes grew brooding again. "There's never an O'Keefe for these thousand years that has passed
without his warning. An' twice have I heard the banshee calling--once it was when my younger
brother died an' once when my father lay waiting to be carried out on the ebb tide."

He mused a moment, then went on: "An' once I saw an Annir Choille, a girl of the green people,
flit like a shade of green fire through Carntogher woods, an' once at Dunchraig I slept where
the ashes of the Dun of Cormac MacConcobar are mixed with those of Cormac an' Eilidh the Fair,
all burned in the nine flames that sprang from the harping of Cravetheen, an' I heard the echo
of his dead harpings--"

He paused again and then, softly, with that curiously sweet, high voice that only the Irish
seem to have, he sang:

    Woman of the white breasts, Eilidh;
    Woman of the gold-brown hair, and lips of the red, red rowan,
    Where is the swan that is whiter, with breast more soft,
    Or the wave on the sea that moves as thou movest, Eilidh.

CHAPTER VIII

Olaf's Story

There was a little silence.  I looked upon him with wonder. Clearly he was in deepest earnest.
I know the psychology of the Gael is a curious one and that deep in all their hearts their
ancient traditions and beliefs have strong and living roots. And I was both amused and touched.

Here was this soldier, who had faced war and its ugly realities open-eyed and fearless, picking,
indeed, the most dangerous branch of service for his own, a modern if ever there was one, appreciative
of most unmystical Broadway, and yet soberly and earnestly attesting to his belief in banshee,
in shadowy people of the woods, and phantom harpers! I wondered what he would think if he could
see the Dweller and then, with a pang, that perhaps his superstitions might make him an easy prey.

He shook his head half impatiently and ran a hand over his eyes; turned to me and grinned:

"Don't think I'm cracked, Professor," he said.  "I'm not. But it takes me that way now and
then. It's the Irish in me. And, believe it or not, I'm telling you the truth."

I looked eastward where the moon, now nearly a week past the full, was mounting.

"You can't make me see what you've seen, Lieutenant," I laughed.  "But you can make me hear.
I've always wondered what kind of a noise a disembodied spirit could make without any vocal
cords or breath or any other earthly sound-producing mechanism. How does the banshee sound?"

O'Keefe looked at me seriously.

"All right," he said.  "I'll show you." From deep down in his throat came first a low, weird
sobbing that mounted steadily into a keening whose mournfulness made my skin creep. And then
his hand shot out and gripped my shoulder, and I stiffened like stone in my chair--for from
behind us, like an echo, and then taking up the cry, swelled a wail that seemed to hold within
it a sublimation of the sorrows of centuries! It gathered itself into one heartbroken, sobbing
note and died away! O'Keefe's grip loosened, and he rose swiftly to his feet.

"It's all right, Professor," he said.  "It's for me.  It found me--all this way from Ireland."

Again the silence was rent by the cry.  But now I had located it.  It came from my room, and
it could mean only one thing--Huldricksson had wakened.

"Forget your banshee!" I gasped, and made a jump for the cabin.

Out of the corner of my eye I noted a look of half-sheepish relief flit over O'Keefe's face,
and then he was beside me. Da Costa shouted an order from the wheel, the Cantonese ran up and
took it from his hands and the little Portuguese pattered down toward us. My hand on the door,
ready to throw it open, I stopped. What if the Dweller were within--what if we had been wrong
and it was not dependent for its power upon that full flood of moon ray which Throckmartin
had thought essential to draw it from the blue pool!

From within, the sobbing wail began once more to rise. O'Keefe pushed me aside, threw open
the door and crouched low within it. I saw an automatic flash dully in his hand; saw it cover
the cabin from side to side, following the swift sweep of his eyes around it. Then he straightened
and his face, turned toward the berth, was filled with wondering pity.

Through the window streamed a shaft of the moonlight. It fell upon Huldricksson's staring eyes;
in them great tears slowly gathered and rolled down his cheeks; from his opened mouth came
the woe-laden wailing. I ran to the port and drew the curtains. Da Costa snapped the lights.

The Norseman's dolorous crying stopped as abruptly as though cut.  His gaze rolled toward us.
And at one bound he broke through the leashes I had buckled round him and faced us, his eyes
glaring, his yellow hair almost erect with the force of the rage visibly surging through him.
Da Costa shrunk behind me. O'Keefe, coolly watchful, took a quick step that brought him in
front of me.

"Where do you take me?" said Huldricksson, and his voice was like the growl of a beast. "Where
is my boat?"

I touched O'Keefe gently and stood before the giant.

"Listen, Olaf Huldricksson," I said.  "We take you to where the sparkling devil took your Helma
and your Freda. We follow the sparkling devil that came down from the moon. Do you hear me?"
I spoke slowly, distinctly, striving to pierce the mists that I knew swirled around the strained
brain. And the words did pierce.

He thrust out a shaking hand.

"You say you follow?" he asked falteringly.  "You know where to follow? Where it took my Helma
and my little Freda?"

"Just that, Olaf Huldricksson," I answered.  "Just that!  I pledge you my life that I know."

Da Costa stepped forward.  "He speaks true, Olaf.  You go faster on the Suwarna than on the
Br-rw-un'ilda, Olaf, yes."

The giant Norseman, still gripping my hand, looked at him.  "I know you, Da Costa," he muttered.
"You are all right. Ja! You are a fair man. Where is the Brunhilda?"

"She follow be'ind on a big rope, Olaf," soothed the Portuguese. "Soon you see her. But now
lie down an' tell us, if you can, why you tie yourself to your wheel an' what it is that happen,
Olaf."

"If you'll tell us how the sparkling devil came it will help us all when we get to where it
is, Huldricksson," I said.

On O'Keefe's face there was an expression of well-nigh ludicrous doubt and amazement. He glanced
from one to the other. The giant shifted his own tense look from me to the Irishman. A gleam
of approval lighted in his eyes. He loosed me, and gripped O'Keefe's arm. "Staerk!" he said.
"Ja--strong, and with a strong heart. A man--ja! He comes too--we shall need him--ja!"

"I tell," he muttered, and seated himself on the side of the bunk. "It was four nights ago.
My Freda"--his voice shook--"Mine Yndling! She loved the moonlight. I was at the wheel and
my Freda and my Helma they were behind me. The moon was behind us and the Brunhilda was like
a swanboat sailing down with the moonlight sending her, ja.

"I heard my Freda say: 'I see a nisse coming down the track of the moon.' And I hear her mother
laugh, low, like a mother does when her Yndling dreams. I was happy--that night--with my Helma
and my Freda, and the Brunhilda sailing like a swan-boat, ja. I heard the child say, 'The nisse
comes fast!' And then I heard a scream from my Helma, a great scream--like a mare when her
foal is torn from her. I spun around fast, ja! I dropped the wheel and spun fast! I saw--"
He covered his eyes with his hands.

The Portuguese had crept close to me, and I heard him panting like a frightened dog.

"I saw a white fire spring over the rail," whispered Olaf Huldricksson. "It whirled round and
round, and it shone like--like stars in a whirlwind mist. There was a noise in my ears. It
sounded like bells--little bells, ja! Like the music you make when you run your finger round
goblets. It made me sick and dizzy--the hell noise.

"My Helma was--indeholde--what you say--in the middle of the white fire. She turned her face
to me and she turned it on the child, and my Helma's face burned into my heart. Because it
was full of fear, and it was full of happiness--of glaede. I tell you that the fear in my Helma's
face made me ice here"--he beat his breast with clenched hand--"but the happiness in it burned
on me like fire. And I could not move--I could not move.

"I said in here"--he touched his head--"I said, 'It is Loki come out of Helvede. But he cannot
take my Helma, for Christ lives and Loki has no power to hurt my Helma or my Freda! Christ
lives! Christ lives!' I said. But the sparkling devil did not let my Helma go. It drew her
to the rail; half over it. I saw her eyes upon the child and a little she broke away and reached
to it. And my Freda jumped into her arms. And the fire wrapped them both and they were gone!
A little I saw them whirling on the moon track behind the Brunhilda--and they were gone!

"The sparkling devil took them!  Loki was loosed, and he had power.  I turned the Brunhilda,
and I followed where my Helma and mine Yndling had gone. My boys crept up and asked me to turn
again. But I would not. They dropped a boat and left me. I steered straight on the path. I
lashed my hands to the wheel that sleep might not loose them. I steered on and on and on--

"Where was the God I prayed when my wife and child were taken?" cried Olaf Huldricksson--and
it was as though I heard Throckmartin asking that same bitter question. "I have left Him as
He left me, ja! I pray now to Thor and to Odin, who can fetter Loki." He sank back, covering
again his eyes.

"Olaf," I said, "what you have called the sparkling devil has taken ones dear to me. I, too,
was following it when we found you. You shall go with me to its home, and there we will try
to take from it your wife and your child and my friends as well. But now that you may be strong
for what is before us, you must sleep again."

Olaf Huldricksson looked upon me and in his eyes was that something which souls must see in
the eyes of Him the old Egyptians called the Searcher of Hearts in the Judgment Hall of Osiris.

"You speak truth!" he said at last slowly.  "I will do what you say!"

He stretched out an arm at my bidding.  I gave him a second injection. He lay back and soon
he was sleeping. I turned toward Da Costa. His face was livid and sweating, and he was trembling
pitiably. O'Keefe stirred.

"You did that mighty well, Dr. Goodwin," he said.  "So well that I almost believed you myself."

"What did you think of his story, Mr. O'Keefe?" I asked.

His answer was almost painfully brief and colloquial.

"Nuts!" he said. I was a little shocked, I admit. "I think he's crazy, Dr. Goodwin," he corrected
himself, quickly. "What else could I think?"

I turned to the little Portuguese without answering.

"There's no need for any anxiety tonight, Captain," I said. "Take my word for it. You need
some rest yourself. Shall I give you a sleeping draft?"

"I do wish you would, Dr. Goodwin, sair," he answered gratefully. "Tomorrow, when I feel bettair--I
would have a talk with you."

I nodded.  He did know something then!  I mixed him an opiate of considerable strength. He
took it and went to his own cabin.

I locked the door behind him and then, sitting beside the sleeping Norseman, I told O'Keefe
my story from end to end. He asked few questions as I spoke. But after I had finished he cross-examined
me rather minutely upon my recollections of the radiant phases upon each appearance, checking
these with Throckmartin's observations of the same phenomena in the Chamber of the Moon Pool.

"And now what do you think of it all?" I asked.

He sat silent for a while, looking at Huldricksson.

"Not what you seem to think, Dr. Goodwin," he answered at last, gravely. "Let me sleep over
it. One thing of course is certain--you and your friend Throckmartin and this man here saw--something.
But--" he was silent again and then continued with a kindness that I found vaguely irritating--"but
I've noticed that when a scientist gets superstitious it--er--takes very hard!

"Here's a few things I can tell you now though," he went on while I struggled to speak--"I
pray in my heart that we'll meet neither the Dolphin nor anything with wireless on board going
up. Because, Dr. Goodwin, I'd dearly love to take a crack at your Dweller.

"And another thing," said O'Keefe.  "After this--cut out the trimmings, Doc, and call me plain
Larry, for whether I think you're crazy or whether I don't, you're there with the nerve, Professor,
and I'm for you.

"Good night!" said Larry and took himself out to the deck hammock he had insisted upon having
slung for him, refusing the captain's importunities to use his own cabin.

And it was with extremely mixed emotions as to his compliment that I watched him go. Superstitious.
I, whose pride was my scientific devotion to fact and fact alone! Superstitious--and this from
a man who believed in banshees and ghostly harpers and Irish wood nymphs and no doubt in leprechauns
and all their tribe!

Half laughing, half irritated, and wholly happy in even the part promise of Larry O'Keefe's
comradeship on my venture, I arranged a couple of pillows, stretched myself out on two chairs
and took up my vigil beside Olaf Huldricksson.

CHAPTER IX

A Lost Page of Earth

When I awakened the sun was streaming through the cabin porthole. Outside a fresh voice lilted.
I lay on my two chairs and listened. The song was one with the wholesome sunshine and the breeze
blowing stiffly and whipping the curtains. It was Larry O'Keefe at his matins:

  The little red lark is shaking his wings,
  Straight from the breast of his love he springs

Larry's voice soared.

  His wings and his feathers are sunrise red,
  He hails the sun and his golden head,
  Good morning, Doc, you are long abed.

This last was a most irreverent interpolation, I well knew. I opened my door. O'Keefe stood
outside laughing. The Suwarna, her engines silent, was making fine headway under all sail,
the Brunhilda skipping in her wake cheerfully with half her canvas up.

The sea was crisping and dimpling under the wind.  Blue and white was the world as far as the
eye could reach. Schools of little silvery green flying fish broke through the water rushing
on each side of us; flashed for an instant and were gone. Behind us gulls hovered and dipped.
The shadow of mystery had retreated far over the rim of this wide awake and beautiful world
and if, subconsciously, I knew that somewhere it was brooding and waiting, for a little while
at least I was consciously free of its oppression.

"How's the patient?" asked O'Keefe.

He was answered by Huldricksson himself, who must have risen just as I left the cabin. The
Norseman had slipped on a pair of pajamas and, giant torso naked under the sun, he strode out
upon us. We all of us looked at him a trifle anxiously. But Olaf's madness had left him. In
his eyes was much sorrow, but the berserk rage was gone.

He spoke straight to me: "You said last night we follow?"

I nodded.

"It is where?" he asked again.

"We go first to Ponape and from there to Metalanim Harbour--to the Nan-Matal. You know the place?"

Huldricksson bowed--a white gleam as of ice showing in his blue eyes.

"It is there?" he asked.

"It is there that we must first search," I answered.

"Good!" said Olaf Huldricksson.  "It is good!"

He looked at Da Costa inquiringly and the little Portuguese, following his thought, answered
his unspoken question.

"We should be at Ponape tomorrow morning early, Olaf."

"Good!" repeated the Norseman.  He looked away, his eyes tear-filled.

A restraint fell upon us; the embarrassment all men experience when they feel a great sympathy
and a great pity, to neither of which they quite know how to give expression. By silent consent
we discussed at breakfast only the most casual topics.

When the meal was over Huldricksson expressed a desire to go aboard the Brunhilda.

The Suwarna hove to and Da Costa and he dropped into the small boat. When they reached the
Brunhilda's deck I saw Olaf take the wheel and the two fall into earnest talk. I beckoned to
O'Keefe and we stretched ourselves out on the bow hatch under cover of the foresail. He lighted
a cigarette, took a couple of leisurely puffs, and looked at me expectantly.

"Well?" I asked.

"Well," said O'Keefe, "suppose you tell me what you think--and then I'll proceed to point out
your scientific errors." His eyes twinkled mischievously.

"Larry," I replied, somewhat severely, "you may not know that I have a scientific reputation
which, putting aside all modesty, I may say is an enviable one. You used a word last night
to which I must interpose serious objection. You more than hinted that I hid--superstitions.
Let me inform you, Larry O'Keefe, that I am solely a seeker, observer, analyst, and synthesist
of facts. I am not"--and I tried to make my tone as pointed as my words--"I am not a believer
in phantoms or spooks, leprechauns, banshees, or ghostly harpers."

O'Keefe leaned back and shouted with laughter.

"Forgive me, Goodwin," he gasped.  "But if you could have seen yourself solemnly disclaiming
the banshee"--another twinkle showed in his eyes--"and then with all this sunshine and this
wide-open world"--he shrugged his shoulders--"it's hard to visualize anything such as you and
Huldricksson have described."

"I know how hard it is, Larry," I answered.  "And don't think I have any idea that the phenomenon
is supernatural in the sense spiritualists and table turners have given that word. I do think
it is supernormal; energized by a force unknown to modern science--but that doesn't mean I
think it outside the radius of science."

"Tell me your theory, Goodwin," he said.  I hesitated--for not yet had I been able to put into
form to satisfy myself any explanation of the Dweller.

"I think," I hazarded finally, "it is possible that some members of that race peopling the
ancient continent which we know existed here in the Pacific, have survived. We know that many
of these islands are honeycombed with caverns and vast subterranean spaces, literally underground
lands running in some cases far out beneath the ocean floor. It is possible that for some reason
survivors of this race sought refuge in the abysmal spaces, one of whose entrances is on the
islet where Throckmartin's party met its end.

"As for their persistence in these caverns--we know they possessed a high science. They may
have gone far in the mastery of certain universal forms of energy--especially that we call
light. They may have developed a civilization and a science far more advanced than ours. What
I call the Dweller may be one of the results of this science. Larry--it may well be that this
lost race is planning to emerge again upon earth's surface!"

"And is sending out your Dweller as a messenger, a scientific dove from their Ark?" I chose
to overlook the banter in his question.

"Did you ever hear of the Chamats?" I asked him.  He shook his head.

"In Papua," I explained, "there is a wide-spread and immeasurably old tradition that 'imprisoned
under the hills' is a race of giants who once ruled this region 'when it stretched from sun
to sun before the moon god drew the waters over it'--I quote from the legend. Not only in Papua
but throughout Malaysia you find this story. And, so the tradition runs, these people--the
Chamats--will one day break through the hills and rule the world; 'make over the world' is
the literal translation of the constant phrase in the tale. It was Herbert Spencer who pointed
out that there is a basis of fact in every myth and legend of man. It is possible that these
survivors I am discussing form Spencer's fact basis for the Malaysian legend.[1]

"This much is sure--the moon door, which is clearly operated by the action of moon rays upon
some unknown element or combination and the crystals through which the moon rays pour down
upon the pool their prismatic columns, are humanly made mechanisms. So long as they are humanly
made, and so long as it is this flood of moonlight from which the Dweller draws its power of
materialization, the Dweller itself, if not the product of the human mind, is at least dependent
upon the product of the human mind for its appearance."

"Wait a minute, Goodwin," interrupted O'Keefe.  "Do you mean to say you think that this thing
is made of--well--of moonshine?"

"Moonlight," I replied, "is, of course, reflected sunlight. But the rays which pass back to
earth after their impact on the moon's surface are profoundly changed. The spectroscope shows
that they lose practically all the slower vibrations we call red and infra-red, while the extremely
rapid vibrations we call the violet and ultra-violet are accelerated and altered. Many scientists
hold that there is an unknown element in the moon--perhaps that which makes the gigantic luminous
trails that radiate in all directions from the lunar crater Tycho--whose energies are absorbed
by and carried on the moon rays.

"At any rate, whether by the loss of the vibrations of the red or by the addition of this mysterious
force, the light of the moon becomes something entirely different from mere modified sunlight--just
as the addition or subtraction of one other chemical in a compound of several makes the product
a substance with entirely different energies and potentialities.

"Now these rays, Larry, are given perhaps still another mysterious activity by the globes through
which Throckmartin said they passed in the Chamber of the Moon Pool. The result is the necessary
factor in the formation of the Dweller. There would be nothing scientifically improbable in
such a process. Kubalski, the great Russian physicist, produced crystalline forms exhibiting
every faculty that we call vital by subjecting certain combinations of chemicals to the action
of highly concentrated rays of various colours. Something in light and nothing else produced
their pseudo-vitality. We do not begin to know how to harness the potentialities of that magnetic
vibration of the ether we call light."

"Listen, Doc," said Larry earnestly, "I'll take everything you say about this lost continent,
the people who used to live on it, and their caverns, for granted. But by the sword of Brian
Boru, you'll never get me to fall for the idea that a bunch of moonshine can handle a big woman
such as you say Throckmartin's Thora was, nor a two-fisted man such as you say Throckmartin
was, nor Huldricksson's wife--and I'll bet she was one of those strapping big northern women
too--you'll never get me to believe that any bunch of concentrated moonshine could handle them
and take them waltzing off along a moonbeam back to wherever it goes. No, Doc, not on your
life, even Tennessee moonshine couldn't do that--nix!"

"All right, O'Keefe," I answered, now very much irritated indeed. "What's your theory?" And
I could not resist adding: "Fairies?"

"Professor," he grinned, "if that Thing's a fairy it's Irish and when it sees me it'll be so
glad there'll be nothing to it. 'I was lost, strayed, or stolen, Larry avick,' it'll say, 'an'
I was so homesick for the old sod I was desp'rit,' it'll say, an' 'take me back quick before
I do any more har-rm!' it'll tell me--an' that's the truth.

"Now don't get me wrong.  I believe you all saw something all right. But what I think you saw
was some kind of gas. All this region is volcanic and islands and things are constantly poking
up from the sea. It's probably gas; a volcanic emanation; something new to us and that drives
you crazy--lots of kinds of gas do that. It hit the Throckmartin party on that island and they
probably were all more or less delirious all the time; thought they saw things; talked it over
and--collective hallucination--just like the Angels of Mons and other miracles of the war.
Somebody sees something that looks like something else. He points it out to the man next him.
'Do you see it?' asks he. 'Sure I see it,' says the other. And there you are--collective hallucination.

"When your friends got it bad they most likely jumped overboard one by one. Huldricksson sails
into a place where it is and it hits his wife. She grabs the child and jumps over. Maybe the
moon rays make it luminous! I've seen gas on the front under the moon that looked like a thousand
whirling dervish devils. Yes, and you could see the devil's faces in it. And if it got into
your lungs nothing could ever make you think you hadn't seen real devils."

For a time I was silent.

"Larry," I said at last, "whether you are right or I am right, I must go to the Nan-Matal.
Will you go with me, Larry?"

"Goodwin," he replied, "I surely will.  I'm as interested as you are. If we don't run across
the Dolphin I'll stick. I'll leave word at Ponape, to tell them where I am should they come
along. If they report me dead for a while there's nobody to care. So that's all right. Only
old man, be reasonable. You've thought over this so long, you're going bug, honestly you are."

And again, the gladness that I might have Larry O'Keefe with me, was so great that I forgot
to be angry.

[1] William Beebe, the famous American naturalist and ornithologist, recently fighting in France
with America's air force, called attention to this remarkable belief in an article printed
not long ago in the Atlantic Monthly. Still more significant was it that he noted a persistent
rumour that the breaking out of the buried race was close.--W.J. B., Pres. I. A. of S.

CHAPTER X

The Moon Pool

Da Costa, who had come aboard unnoticed by either of us, now tapped me on the arm.

"Doctair Goodwin," he said, "can I see you in my cabin, sair?"

At last, then, he was going to speak.  I followed him.

"Doctair," he said, when we had entered, "this is a veree strange thing that has happened to
Olaf. Veree strange. An' the natives of Ponape, they have been very much excite' lately.

"Of what they fear I know nothing, nothing!" Again that quick, furtive crossing of himself.
"But this I have to tell you. There came to me from Ranaloa last month a man, a Russian, a
doctair, like you. His name it was Marakinoff. I take him to Ponape an' the natives there they
will not take him to the Nan-Matal where he wish to go--no! So I take him. We leave in a boat,
wit' much instrument carefully tied up. I leave him there wit' the boat an' the food. He tell
me to tell no one an' pay me not to. But you are a friend an' Olaf he depend much upon you
an' so I tell you, sair."

"You know nothing more than this, Da Costa?" I asked. "Nothing of another expedition?"

"No," he shook his head vehemently.  "Nothing more."

"Hear the name Throckmartin while you were there?" I persisted.

"No," his eyes were steady as he answered but the pallor had crept again into his face.

I was not so sure.  But if he knew more than he had told me why was he afraid to speak? My
anxiety deepened and later I sought relief from it by repeating the conversation to O'Keefe.

"A Russian, eh," he said.  "Well, they can be damned nice, or damned--otherwise. Considering
what you did for me, I hope I can look him over before the Dolphin shows up."

Next morning we raised Ponape, without further incident, and before noon the Suwarna and the
Brunhilda had dropped anchor in the harbour. Upon the excitement and manifest dread of the
natives, when we sought among them for carriers and workmen to accompany us, I will not dwell.
It is enough to say that no payment we offered could induce a single one of them to go to the
Nan-Matal. Nor would they say why.

Finally it was agreed that the Brunhilda should be left in charge of a half-breed Chinaman,
whom both Da Costa and Huldricksson knew and trusted. We piled her long-boat up with my instruments
and food and camping equipment. The Suwarna took us around to Metalanim Harbour, and there,
with the tops of ancient sea walls deep in the blue water beneath us, and the ruins looming
up out of the mangroves, a scant mile from us, left us.

Then with Huldricksson manipulating our small sail, and Larry at the rudder, we rounded the
titanic wall that swept down into the depths, and turned at last into the canal that Throckmartin,
on his map, had marked as that which, running between frowning Nan-Tauach and its satellite
islet, Tau, led straight to the gate of the place of ancient mysteries.

And as we entered that channel we were enveloped by a silence; a silence so intense, so--weighted
that it seemed to have substance; an alien silence that clung and stifled and still stood aloof
from us--the living. It was a stillness, such as might follow the long tramping of millions
into the grave; it was--paradoxical as it may be--filled with the withdrawal of life.

Standing down in the chambered depths of the Great Pyramid I had known something of such silence--but
never such intensity as this. Larry felt it and I saw him look at me askance. If Olaf, sitting
in the bow, felt it, too, he gave no sign; his blue eyes, with again the glint of ice within
them, watched the channel before us.

As we passed, there arose upon our left sheer walls of black basalt blocks, cyclopean, towering
fifty feet or more, broken here and there by the sinking of their deep foundations.

In front of us the mangroves widened out and filled the canal.  On our right the lesser walls
of Tau, sombre blocks smoothed and squared and set with a cold, mathematical nicety that filled
me with vague awe, slipped by. Through breaks I caught glimpses of dark ruins and of great
fallen stones that seemed to crouch and menace us, as we passed. Somewhere there, hidden, were
the seven globes that poured the moon fire down upon the Moon Pool.

Now we were among the mangroves and, sail down, the three of us pushed and pulled the boat
through their tangled roots and branches. The noise of our passing split the silence like a
profanation, and from the ancient bastions came murmurs--forbidding, strangely sinister. And
now we were through, floating on a little open space of shadow-filled water. Before us lifted
the gateway of Nan-Tauach, gigantic, broken, incredibly old; shattered portals through which
had passed men and women of earth's dawn; old with a weight of years that pressed leadenly
upon the eyes that looked upon it, and yet was in some curious indefinable way--menacingly defiant.

Beyond the gate, back from the portals, stretched a flight of enormous basalt slabs, a giant's
stairway indeed; and from each side of it marched the high walls that were the Dweller's pathway.
None of us spoke as we grounded the boat and dragged it upon a half-submerged pier. And when
we did speak it was in whispers.

"What next?" asked Larry.

"I think we ought to take a look around," I replied in the same low tones. "We'll climb the
wall here and take a flash about. The whole place ought to be plain as day from that height."

Huldricksson, his blue eyes alert, nodded.  With the greatest difficulty we clambered up the
broken blocks.

To the east and south of us, set like children's blocks in the midst of the sapphire sea, lay
dozens of islets, none of them covering more than two square miles of surface; each of them
a perfect square or oblong within its protecting walls.

On none was there sign of life, save for a few great birds that hovered here and there, and
gulls dipping in the blue waves beyond.

We turned our gaze down upon the island on which we stood.  It was, I estimated, about three-quarters
of a mile square. The sea wall enclosed it. It was really an enormous basalt-sided open cube,
and within it two other open cubes. The enclosure between the first and second wall was stone
paved, with here and there a broken pillar and long stone benches. The hibiscus, the aloe tree,
and a number of small shrubs had found place, but seemed only to intensify its stark loneliness.

"Wonder where the Russian can be?" asked Larry.

I shook my head.  There was no sign of life here.  Had Marakinoff gone--or had the Dweller
taken him, too? Whatever had happened, there was no trace of him below us or on any of the
islets within our range of vision. We scrambled down the side of the gateway. Olaf looked at
me wistfully.

"We start the search now, Olaf," I said.  "And first, O'Keefe, let us see whether the grey
stone is really here. After that we will set up camp, and while I unpack, you and Olaf search
the island. It won't take long."

Larry gave a look at his service automatic and grinned. "Lead on, Macduff," he said. We made
our way up the steps, through the outer enclosures and into the central square, I confess to
a fire of scientific curiosity and eagerness tinged with a dread that O'Keefe's analysis might
be true. Would we find the moving slab and, if so, would it be as Throckmartin had described?
If so, then even Larry would have to admit that here was something that theories of gases and
luminous emanations would not explain; and the first test of the whole amazing story would
be passed. But if not--And there before us, the faintest tinge of grey setting it apart from
its neighbouring blocks of basalt, was the moon door!

There was no mistaking it.  This was, in very deed, the portal through which Throckmartin had
seen pass that gloriously dreadful apparition he called the Dweller. At its base was the curious,
seemingly polished cup-like depression within which, my lost friend had told me, the opening
door swung.

What was that portal--more enigmatic than was ever sphinx?  And what lay beyond it? What did
that smooth stone, whose wan deadness whispered of ages-old corridors of time opening out into
alien, unimaginable vistas, hide? It had cost the world of science Throckmartin's great brain--as
it had cost Throckmartin those he loved. It had drawn me to it in search of Throckmartin--and
its shadow had fallen upon the soul of Olaf the Norseman; and upon what thousands upon thousands
more I wondered, since the brains that had conceived it had vanished with their secret knowledge?

What lay beyond it?

I stretched out a shaking hand and touched the surface of the slab.  A faint thrill passed
through my hand and arm, oddly unfamiliar and as oddly unpleasant; as of electric contact holding
the very essence of cold. O'Keefe, watching, imitated my action. As his fingers rested on the
stone his face filled with astonishment.

"It's the door?" he asked.  I nodded.  There was a low whistle from him and he pointed up toward
the top of the grey stone. I followed the gesture and saw, above the moon door and on each
side of it, two gently curving bosses of rock, perhaps a foot in diameter.

"The moon door's keys," I said.

"It begins to look so," answered Larry.  "If we can find them," he added.

"There's nothing we can do till moonrise," I replied.  "And we've none too much time to prepare
as it is. Come!"

A little later we were beside our boat.  We lightered it, set up the tent, and as it was now
but a short hour to sundown I bade them leave me and make their search. They went off together,
and I busied myself with opening some of the paraphernalia I had brought with me.

First of all I took out the two Becquerel ray-condensers that I had bought in Sydney. Their
lenses would collect and intensify to the fullest extent any light directed upon them. I had
found them most useful in making spectroscopic analysis of luminous vapours, and I knew that
at Yerkes Observatory splendid results had been obtained from them in collecting the diffused
radiance of the nebulae for the same purpose.

If my theory of the grey slab's mechanism were correct, it was practically certain that with
the satellite only a few nights past the full we could concentrate enough light on the bosses
to open the rock. And as the ray streams through the seven globes described by Throckmartin
would be too weak to energize the Pool, we could enter the chamber free from any fear of encountering
its tenant, make our preliminary observations and go forth before the moon had dropped so far
that the concentration in the condensers would fall below that necessary to keep the portal
from closing.

I took out also a small spectroscope, and a few other instruments for the analysis of certain
light manifestations and the testing of metal and liquid. Finally, I put aside my emergency
medical kit.

I had hardly finished examining and adjusting these before O'Keefe and Huldricksson returned.
They reported signs of a camp at least ten days old beside the northern wall of the outer court,
but beyond that no evidence of others beyond ourselves on Nan-Tauach.

We prepared supper, ate and talked a little, but for the most part were silent. Even Larry's
high spirits were not in evidence; half a dozen times I saw him take out his automatic and
look it over. He was more thoughtful than I had ever seen him. Once he went into the tent,
rummaged about a bit and brought out another revolver which, he said, he had got from Da Costa,
and a half-dozen clips of cartridges. He passed the gun over to Olaf.

At last a glow in the southeast heralded the rising moon. I picked up my instruments and the
medical kit; Larry and Olaf shouldered each a short ladder that was part of my equipment, and,
with our electric flashes pointing the way, walked up the great stairs, through the enclosures,
and straight to the grey stone.

By this time the moon had risen and its clipped light shone full upon the slab. I saw faint
gleams pass over it as of fleeting phosphorescence--but so faint were they that I could not
be sure of the truth of my observation.

We set the ladders in place.  Olaf I assigned to stand before the door and watch for the first
signs of its opening--if open it should. The Becquerels were set within three-inch tripods,
whose feet I had equipped with vacuum rings to enable them to hold fast to the rock.

I scaled one ladder and fastened a condenser over the boss; descended; sent Larry up to watch
it, and, ascending the second ladder, rapidly fixed the other in its place. Then, with O'Keefe
watchful on his perch, I on mine, and Olaf's eyes fixed upon the moon door, we began our vigil.
Suddenly there was an exclamation from Larry.

"Seven little lights are beginning to glow on this stone!" he cried.

But I had already seen those beneath my lens begin to gleam out with a silvery lustre. Swiftly
the rays within the condenser began to thicken and increase, and as they did so the seven small
circles waxed like stars growing out of the dusk, and with a queer--curdled is the best word
I can find to define it--radiance entirely strange to me.

Beneath me I heard a faint, sighing murmur and then the voice of Huldricksson:

"It opens--the stone turns--"

I began to climb down the ladder.  Again came Olaf's voice:

"The stone--it is open--" And then a shriek, a wail of blended anguish and pity, of rage and
despair--and the sound of swift footsteps racing through the wall beneath me!

I dropped to the ground.  The moon door was wide open, and through it I caught a glimpse of
a corridor filled with a faint, pearly vaporous light like earliest misty dawn. But of Olaf
I could see--nothing! And even as I stood, gaping, from behind me came the sharp crack of a
rifle; the glass of the condenser at Larry's side flew into fragments; he dropped swiftly to
the ground, the automatic in his hand flashed once, twice, into the darkness.

And the moon door began to pivot slowly, slowly back into its place!

I rushed toward the turning stone with the wild idea of holding it open. As I thrust my hands
against it there came at my back a snarl and an oath and Larry staggered under the impact of
a body that had flung itself straight at his throat. He reeled at the lip of the shallow cup
at the base of the slab, slipped upon its polished curve, fell and rolled with that which had
attacked him, kicking and writhing, straight through the narrowing portal into the passage!

Forgetting all else, I sprang to his aid.  As I leaped I felt the closing edge of the moon
door graze my side. Then, as Larry raised a fist, brought it down upon the temple of the man
who had grappled with him and rose from the twitching body unsteadily to his feet, I heard
shuddering past me a mournful whisper; spun about as though some giant's hand had whirled me--

The end of the corridor no longer opened out into the moonlit square of ruined Nan-Tauach.
It was barred by a solid mass of glimmering stone. The moon door had closed!

O'Keefe took a stumbling step toward the barrier behind us. There was no mark of juncture with
the shining walls; the slab fitted into the sides as closely as a mosaic.

"It's shut all right," said Larry.  "But if there's a way in, there's a way out. Anyway, Doc,
we're right in the pew we've been heading for--so why worry?" He grinned at me cheerfully.
The man on the floor groaned, and he dropped to his knees beside him.

"Marakinoff!" he cried.

At my exclamation he moved aside, turning the face so I could see it. It was clearly Russian,
and just as clearly its possessor was one of unusual force and intellect.

The strong, massive brow with orbital ridge unusually developed, the dominant, high-bridged
nose, the straight lips with their more than suggestion of latent cruelty, and the strong lines
of the jaw beneath a black, pointed beard all gave evidence that here was a personality beyond
the ordinary.

"Couldn't be anybody else," said Larry, breaking in on my thoughts. "He must have been watching
us over there from Chau-ta-leur's vault all the time."

Swiftly he ran practised hands over his body; then stood erect, holding out to me two wicked-looking
magazine pistols and a knife. "He got one of my bullets through his right forearm, too," he
said. "Just a flesh wound, but it made him drop his rifle. Some arsenal, our little Russian
scientist, what?"

I opened my medical kit.  The wound was a slight one, and Larry stood looking on as I bandaged it.

"Got another one of those condensers?" he asked, suddenly.  "And do you suppose Olaf will know
enough to use it?"

"Larry," I answered, "Olaf's not outside!  He's in here somewhere!"

His jaw dropped.

"The hell you say!" he whispered.

"Didn't you hear him shriek when the stone opened?" I asked.

"I heard him yell, yes," he said.  "But I didn't know what was the matter. And then this wildcat
jumped me--" He paused and his eyes widened. "Which way did he go?" he asked swiftly. I pointed
down the faintly glowing passage.

"There's only one way," I said.

"Watch that bird close," hissed O'Keefe, pointing to Marakinoff--and pistol in hand stretched
his long legs and raced away. I looked down at the Russian. His eyes were open, and he reached
out a hand to me. I lifted him to his feet.

"I have heard," he said.  "We follow, quick.  If you will take my arm, please, I am shaken
yet, yes--" I gripped his shoulder without a word, and the two of us set off down the corridor
after O'Keefe. Marakinoff was gasping, and his weight pressed upon me heavily, but he moved
with all the will and strength that were in him.

As we ran I took hasty note of the tunnel.  Its sides were smooth and polished, and the light
seemed to come not from their surfaces, but from far within them--giving to the walls an illusive
aspect of distance and depth; rendering them in a peculiarly weird way--spacious. The passage
turned, twisted, ran down, turned again. It came to me that the light that illumined the tunnel
was given out by tiny points deep within the stone, sprang from the points ripplingly and spread
upon their polished faces.

There was a cry from Larry far ahead.

"Olaf!"

I gripped Marakinoff's arm closer and we sped on.  Now we were coming fast to the end of the
passage. Before us was a high arch, and through it I glimpsed a dim, shifting luminosity as
of mist filled with rainbows. We reached the portal and I looked into a chamber that might
have been transported from that enchanted palace of the Jinn King that rises beyond the magic
mountains of Kaf.

Before me stood O'Keefe and a dozen feet in front of him, Huldricksson, with something clasped
tightly in his arms. The Norseman's feet were at the verge of a shining, silvery lip of stone
within whose oval lay a blue pool. And down upon this pool staring upward like a gigantic eye,
fell seven pillars of phantom light--one of them amethyst, one of rose, another of white, a
fourth of blue, and three of emerald, of silver, and of amber. They fell each upon the azure
surface, and I knew that these were the seven streams of radiance, within which the Dweller
took shape--now but pale ghosts of their brilliancy when the full energy of the moon stream
raced through them.

Huldricksson bent and placed on the shining silver lip of the Pool that which he held--and
I saw that it was the body of a child! He set it there so gently, bent over the side and thrust
a hand down into the water. And as he did so he moaned and lurched against the little body
that lay before him. Instantly the form moved--and slipped over the verge into the blue. Huldricksson
threw his body over the stone, hands clutching, arms thrust deep down--and from his lips issued
a long-drawn, heart-shrivelling wail of pain and of anguish that held in it nothing human!

Close on its wake came a cry from Marakinoff.

"Catch him!" shouted the Russian.  "Drag him back! Quick!"

He leaped forward, but before he could half clear the distance, O'Keefe had leaped too, had
caught the Norseman by the shoulders and toppled him backward, where he lay whimpering and
sobbing. And as I rushed behind Marakinoff I saw Larry lean over the lip of the Pool and cover
his eyes with a shaking hand; saw the Russian peer into it with real pity in his cold eyes.

Then I stared down myself into the Moon Pool, and there, sinking, was a little maid whose dead
face and fixed, terror-filled eyes looked straight into mine; and ever sinking slowly, slowly--vanished!
And I knew that this was Olaf's Freda, his beloved yndling!

But where was the mother, and where had Olaf found his babe?

The Russian was first to speak.

"You have nitroglycerin there, yes?" he asked, pointing toward my medical kit that I had gripped
unconsciously and carried with me during the mad rush down the passage. I nodded and drew it out.

"Hypodermic," he ordered next, curtly; took the syringe, filled it accurately with its one
one-hundredth of a grain dosage, and leaned over Huldricksson. He rolled up the sailor's sleeves
half-way to the shoulder. The arms were white with somewhat of that weird semitranslucence
that I had seen on Throckmartin's breast where a tendril of the Dweller had touched him; and
his hands were of the same whiteness--like a baroque pearl. Above the line of white, Marakinoff
thrust the needle.

"He will need all his heart can do," he said to me.

Then he reached down into a belt about his waist and drew from it a small, flat flask of what
seemed to be lead. He opened it and let a few drops of its contents fall on each arm of the
Norwegian. The liquid sparkled and instantly began to spread over the skin much as oil or gasoline
dropped on water does--only far more rapidly. And as it spread it drew a sparkling film over
the marbled flesh and little wisps of vapour rose from it. The Norseman's mighty chest heaved
with agony. His hands clenched. The Russian gave a grunt of satisfaction at this, dropped a
little more of the liquid, and then, watching closely, grunted again and leaned back. Huldricksson's
laboured breathing ceased, his head dropped upon Larry's knee, and from his arms and hands
the whiteness swiftly withdrew.

Marakinoff arose and contemplated us--almost benevolently.

"He will all right be in five minutes," he said.  "I know.  I do it to pay for that shot of
mine, and also because we will need him. Yes." He turned to Larry. "You have a poonch like
a mule kick, my young friend," he said. "Some time you pay me for that, too, eh?" He smiled;
and the quality of the grimace was not exactly reassuring. Larry looked him over quizzically.

"You're Marakinoff, of course," he said.  The Russian nodded, betraying no surprise at the
recognition.

"And you?" he asked.

"Lieutenant O'Keefe of the Royal Flying Corps," replied Larry, saluting. "And this gentleman
is Dr. Walter T. Goodwin."

Marakinoff's face brightened.

"The American botanist?" he queried.  I nodded.

"Ah," cried Marakinoff eagerly, "but this is fortunate. Long I have desired to meet you. Your
work, for an American, is most excellent; surprising. But you are wrong in your theory of the
development of the Angiospermae from Cycadeoidea dacotensis. Da--all wrong--"

I was interrupting him with considerable heat, for my conclusions from the fossil Cycadeoidea
I knew to be my greatest triumph, when Larry broke in upon me rudely.

"Say," he spluttered, "am I crazy or are you?  What in damnation kind of a place and time is
this to start an argument like that?

"Angiospermae, is it?" exclaimed Larry.  "HELL!"

Marakinoff again regarded him with that irritating air of benevolence.

"You have not the scientific mind, young friend," he said. "The poonch, yes! But so has the
mule. You must learn that only the fact is important--not you, not me, not this"--he pointed
to Huldricksson--"or its sorrows. Only the fact, whatever it is, is real, yes. But"--he turned
to me--"another time--"

Huldricksson interrupted him.  The big seaman had risen stiffly to his feet and stood with
Larry's arm supporting him. He stretched out his hands to me.

"I saw her," he whispered.  "I saw mine Freda when the stone swung. She lay there--just at
my feet. I picked her up and I saw that mine Freda was dead. But I hoped--and I thought maybe
mine Helma was somewhere here, too, So I ran with mine yndling--here--" His voice broke. "I
thought maybe she was not dead," he went on. "And I saw that"--he pointed to the Moon Pool--"and
I thought I would bathe her face and she might live again. And when I dipped my hands within--the
life left them, and cold, deadly cold, ran up through them into my heart. And mine Freda--she
fell--" he covered his eyes, and dropping his head on O'Keefe's shoulder, stood, racked by
sobs that seemed to tear at his very soul.

CHAPTER XI

The Flame-Tipped Shadows

Marakinoff nodded his head solemnly as Olaf finished.

"Da!" he said.  "That which comes from here took them both--the woman and the child. Da! They
came clasped within it and the stone shut upon them. But why it left the child behind I do
not understand."

"How do you know that?" I cried in amazement.

"Because I saw it," answered Marakinoff simply.  "Not only did I see it, but hardly had I time
to make escape through the entrance before it passed whirling and murmuring and its bell sounds
all joyous. Da! It was what you call the squeak close, that."

"Wait a moment," I said--stilling Larry with a gesture. "Do I understand you to say that you
were within this place?"

Marakinoff actually beamed upon me.

"Da, Dr. Goodwin," he said, "I went in when that which comes from it went out!"

I gaped at him, stricken dumb; into Larry's bellicose attitude crept a suggestion of grudging
respect; Olaf, trembling, watched silently.

"Dr.  Goodwin and my impetuous young friend, you," went on Marakinoff after a moment's silence
and I wondered vaguely why he did not include Huldricksson in his address--"it is time that
we have an understanding. I have a proposal to make to you also. It is this; we are what you
call a bad boat, and all of us are in it. Da! We need all hands, is it not so? Let us put together
our knowledge and our brains and resources--and even a poonch of a mule is a resource," he
looked wickedly at O'Keefe, "and pull our boat into quiet waters again. After that--"

"All very well, Marakinoff," interjected Larry, "but I don't feel very safe in any boat with
somebody capable of shooting me through the back."

Marakinoff waved a deprecatory hand.

"It was natural that," he said, "logical, da!  Here is a very great secret, perhaps many secrets
to my country invaluable--" He paused, shaken by some overpowering emotion; the veins in his
forehead grew congested, the cold eyes blazed and the guttural voice harshened.

"I do not apologize and I do not explain," rasped Marakinoff.  "But I will tell you, da! Here
is my country sweating blood in an experiment to liberate the world. And here are the other
nations ringing us like wolves and waiting to spring at our throats at the least sign of weakness.
And here are you, Lieutenant O'Keefe of the English wolves, and you Dr. Goodwin of the Yankee
pack--and here in this place may be that will enable my country to win its war for the worker.
What are the lives of you two and this sailor to that? Less than the flies I crush with my
hand, less than midges in the sunbeam!"

He suddenly gripped himself.

"But that is not now the important thing," he resumed, almost coldly. "Not that nor my shooting.
Let us squarely the situation face. My proposal is so: that we join interests, and what you
call see it through together; find our way through this place and those secrets learn of which
I have spoken, if we can. And when that is done we will go our ways, to his own land each,
to make use of them for our lands as each of us may. On my part, I offer my knowledge--and
it is very valuable, Dr. Goodwin--and my training. You and Lieutenant O'Keefe do the same,
and this man Olaf, what he can of his strength, for I do not think his usefulness lies in his
brains, no."

"In effect, Goodwin," broke in Larry as I hesitated, "the professor's proposition is this:
he wants to know what's going on here but he begins to realize it's no one man's job and besides
we have the drop on him. We're three to his one, and we have all his hardware and cutlery.
But also we can do better with him than without him--just as he can do better with us than
without us. It's an even break--for a while. But once he gets that information he's looking
for, then look out. You and Olaf and I are the wolves and the flies and the midges again--and
the strafing will be about due. Nevertheless, with three to one against him, if he can get
away with it he deserves to. I'm for taking him up, if you are."

There was almost a twinkle in Marakinoff's eyes.

"It is not just as I would have put it, perhaps," he said, "but in its skeleton he has right.
Nor will I turn my hand against you while we are still in danger here. I pledge you my honor
on this."

Larry laughed.

"All right, Professor," he grinned.  "I believe you mean every word you say. Nevertheless,
I'll just keep the guns."

Marakinoff bowed, imperturbably.

"And now," he said, "I will tell you what I know.  I found the secret of the door mechanism
even as you did, Dr. Goodwin. But by carelessness, my condensers were broken. I was forced
to wait while I sent for others--and the waiting might be for months. I took certain precautions,
and on the first night of this full moon I hid myself within the vault of Chau-ta-leur."

An involuntary thrill of admiration for the man went through me at the manifest heroism of
this leap in the dark. I could see it reflected in Larry's face.

"I hid in the vault," continued Marakinoff, "and I saw that which comes from here come out.
I waited--long hours. At last, when the moon was low, it returned--ecstatically--with a man,
a native, in embrace enfolded. It passed through the door, and soon then the moon became low
and the door closed.

"The next night more confidence was mine, yes.  And after that which comes had gone, I looked
through its open door. I said, 'It will not return for three hours. While it is away, why shall
I not into its home go through the door it has left open?' So I went--even to here. I looked
at the pillars of light and I tested the liquid of the Pool on which they fell. That liquid,
Dr. Goodwin, is not water, and it is not any fluid known on earth." He handed me a small vial,
its neck held in a long thong.

"Take this," he said, "and see."

Wonderingly, I took the bottle; dipped it down into the Pool.  The liquid was extraordinarily
light; seemed, in fact, to give the vial buoyancy. I held it to the light. It was striated,
streaked, as though little living, pulsing veins ran through it. And its blueness, even in
the vial, held an intensity of luminousness.

"Radioactive," said Marakinoff.  "Some liquid that is intensely radioactive; but what it is
I know not at all. Upon the living skin it acts like radium raised to the nth power and with
an element most mysterious added. The solution with which I treated him," he pointed to Huldricksson,
"I had prepared before I came here, from certain information I had. It is largely salts of
radium and its base is Loeb's formula for the neutralization of radium and X-ray burns. Taking
this man at once, before the degeneration had become really active, I could negative it. But
after two hours I could have done nothing."

He paused a moment.

"Next I studied the nature of these luminous walls.  I concluded that whoever had made them,
knew the secret of the Almighty's manufacture of light from the ether itself! Colossal! Da!
But the substance of these blocks confines an atomic--how would you say--atomic manipulation,
a conscious arrangement of electrons, light-emitting and perhaps indefinitely so. These blocks
are lamps in which oil and wick are electrons drawing light waves from ether itself! A Prometheus,
indeed, this discoverer! I looked at my watch and that little guardian warned me that it was
time to go. I went. That which comes forth returned--this time empty-handed.

"And the next night I did the same thing.  Engrossed in research, I let the moments go by to
the danger point, and scarcely was I replaced within the vault when the shining thing raced
over the walls, and in its grip the woman and child.

"Then you came--and that is all.  And now--what is it you know?"

Very briefly I went over my story.  His eyes gleamed now and then, but he did not interrupt me.

"A great secret!  A colossal secret!" he muttered, when I had ended. "We cannot leave it hidden."

"The first thing to do is to try the door," said Larry, matter of fact.

"There is no use, my young friend," assured Marakinoff mildly.

"Nevertheless we'll try," said Larry.  We retraced our way through the winding tunnel to the
end, but soon even O'Keefe saw that any idea of moving the slab from within was hopeless. We
returned to the Chamber of the Pool. The pillars of light were fainter, and we knew that the
moon was sinking. On the world outside before long dawn would be breaking. I began to feel
thirst--and the blue semblance of water within the silvery rim seemed to glint mockingly as
my eyes rested on it.

"Da!" it was Marakinoff, reading my thoughts uncannily. "Da!  We will be thirsty. And it will
be very bad for him of us who loses control and drinks of that, my friend. Da!"

Larry threw back his shoulders as though shaking a burden from them.

"This place would give an angel of joy the willies," he said.  "I suggest that we look around
and find something that will take us somewhere. You can bet the people that built it had more
ways of getting in than that once-a-month family entrance. Doc, you and Olaf take the left
wall; the professor and I will take the right."

He loosened one of his automatics with a suggestive movement.

"After you, Professor," he bowed, politely, to the Russian. We parted and set forth.

The chamber widened out from the portal in what seemed to be the arc of an immense circle.
The shining walls held a perceptible curve, and from this curvature I estimated that the roof
was fully three hundred feet above us.

The floor was of smooth, mosaic-fitted blocks of a faintly yellow tinge. They were not light-emitting
like the blocks that formed the walls. The radiance from these latter, I noted, had the peculiar
quality of thickening a few yards from its source, and it was this that produced the effect
of misty, veiled distances. As we walked, the seven columns of rays streaming down from the
crystalline globes high above us waned steadily; the glow within the chamber lost its prismatic
shimmer and became an even grey tone somewhat like moonlight in a thin cloud.

Now before us, out from the wall, jutted a low terrace.  It was all of a pearly rose-coloured
stone, slender, graceful pillars of the same hue. The face of the terrace was about ten feet
high, and all over it ran a bas-relief of what looked like short-trailing vines, surmounted
by five stalks, on the tip of each of which was a flower.

We passed along the terrace.  It turned in an abrupt curve. I heard a hail, and there, fifty
feet away, at the curving end of a wall identical with that where we stood, were Larry and
Marakinoff. Obviously the left side of the chamber was a duplicate of that we had explored.
We joined. In front of us the columned barriers ran back a hundred feet, forming an alcove.
The end of this alcove was another wall of the same rose stone, but upon it the design of vines
was much heavier.

We took a step forward--there was a gasp of awe from the Norseman, a guttural exclamation from
Marakinoff. For on, or rather within, the wall before us, a great oval began to glow, waxed
almost to a flame and then shone steadily out as though from behind it a light was streaming
through the stone itself!

And within the roseate oval two flame-tipped shadows appeared, stood for a moment, and then
seemed to float out upon its surface. The shadows wavered; the tips of flame that nimbused
them with flickering points of vermilion pulsed outward, drew back, darted forth again, and
once more withdrew themselves--and as they did so the shadows thickened--and suddenly there
before us stood two figures!

One was a girl--a girl whose great eyes were golden as the fabled lilies of Kwan-Yung that
were born of the kiss of the sun upon the amber goddess the demons of Lao-Tz'e carved for him;
whose softly curved lips were red as the royal coral, and whose golden-brown hair reached to
her knees!

And the second was a gigantic frog--A woman frog, head helmeted with carapace of shell around
which a fillet of brilliant yellow jewels shone; enormous round eyes of blue circled with a
broad iris of green; monstrous body of banded orange and white girdled with strand upon strand
of the flashing yellow gems; six feet high if an inch, and with one webbed paw of its short,
powerfully muscled forelegs resting upon the white shoulder of the golden-eyed girl!

Moments must have passed as we stood in stark amazement, gazing at that incredible apparition.
The two figures, although as real as any of those who stood beside me, unphantomlike as it
is possible to be, had a distinct suggestion of--projection.

They were there before us--golden-eyed girl and grotesque frog-woman--complete in every line
and curve; and still it was as though their bodies passed back through distances; as though,
to try to express the wellnigh inexpressible, the two shapes we were looking upon were the
end of an infinite number stretching in fine linked chain far away, of which the eyes saw only
the nearest, while in the brain some faculty higher than sight recognized and registered the
unseen others.

The gigantic eyes of the frog-woman took us all in--unwinkingly. Little glints of phosphorescence
shone out within the metallic green of the outer iris ring. She stood upright, her great legs
bowed; the monstrous slit of a mouth slightly open, revealing a row of white teeth sharp and
pointed as lancets; the paw resting on the girl's shoulder, half covering its silken surface,
and from its five webbed digits long yellow claws of polished horn glistened against the delicate
texture of the flesh.

But if the frog-woman regarded us all, not so did the maiden of the rosy wall. Her eyes were
fastened upon Larry, drinking him in with extraordinary intentness. She was tall, far over
the average of women, almost as tall, indeed, as O'Keefe himself; not more than twenty years
old, if that, I thought. Abruptly she leaned forward, the golden eyes softened and grew tender;
the red lips moved as though she were speaking.

Larry took a quick step, and his face was that of one who after countless births comes at last
upon the twin soul lost to him for ages. The frog-woman turned her eyes upon the girl; her
huge lips moved, and I knew that she was talking! The girl held out a warning hand to O'Keefe,
and then raised it, resting each finger upon one of the five flowers of the carved vine close
beside her. Once, twice, three times, she pressed upon the flower centres, and I noted that
her hand was curiously long and slender, the digits like those wonderful tapering ones the
painters we call the primitive gave to their Virgins.

Three times she pressed the flowers, and then looked intently at Larry once more. A slow, sweet
smile curved the crimson lips. She stretched both hands out toward him again eagerly; a burning
blush rose swiftly over white breasts and flowerlike face.

Like the clicking out of a cinematograph, the pulsing oval faded and golden-eyed girl and frog-woman
were gone!

And thus it was that Lakla, the handmaiden of the Silent Ones, and Larry O'Keefe first looked
into each other's hearts!

Larry stood rapt, gazing at the stone.

"Eilidh," I heard him whisper; "Eilidh of the lips like the red, red rowan and the golden-brown
hair!"

"Clearly of the Ranadae," said Marakinoff, "a development of the fossil Labyrinthodonts: you
saw her teeth, da?"

"Ranadae, yes," I answered.  "But from the Stegocephalia; of the order Ecaudata--"

Never such a complete indignation as was in O'Keefe's voice as he interrupted.

"What do you mean--fossils and Stego whatever it is?" he asked.  "She was a girl, a wonder
girl--a real girl, and Irish, or I'm not an O'Keefe!"

"We were talking about the frog-woman, Larry," I said, conciliatingly.

His eyes were wild as he regarded us.

"Say," he said, "if you two had been in the Garden of Eden when Eve took the apple, you wouldn't
have had time to give her a look for counting the scales on the snake!"

He strode swiftly over to the wall.  We followed.  Larry paused, stretched his hand up to the
flowers on which the tapering fingers of the golden-eyed girl had rested.

"It was here she put up her hand," he murmured.  He pressed caressingly the carved calyxes,
once, twice, a third time even as she had--and silently and softly the wall began to split;
on each side a great stone pivoted slowly, and before us a portal stood, opening into a narrow
corridor glowing with the same rosy lustre that had gleamed around the flame-tipped shadows!

"Have your gun ready, Olaf!" said Larry.  "We follow Golden Eyes," he said to me.

"Follow?" I echoed stupidly.

"Follow!" he said.  "She came to show us the way!  Follow? I'd follow her through a thousand
hells!"

And with Olaf at one end, O'Keefe at the other, both of them with automatics in hand, and Marakinoff
and I between them, we stepped over the threshold.

At our right, a few feet away, the passage ended abruptly in a square of polished stone, from
which came faint rose radiance. The roof of the place was less than two feet over O'Keefe's head.

A yard at left of us lifted a four-foot high, gently curved barricade, stretching from wall
to wall--and beyond it was blackness; an utter and appalling blackness that seemed to gather
itself from infinite depths. The rose-glow in which we stood was cut off by the blackness as
though it had substance; it shimmered out to meet it, and was checked as though by a blow;
indeed, so strong was the suggestion of sinister, straining force within the rayless opacity
that I shrank back, and Marakinoff with me. Not so O'Keefe. Olaf beside him, he strode to the
wall and peered over. He beckoned us.

"Flash your pocket-light down there," he said to me, pointing into the thick darkness below
us. The little electric circle quivered down as though afraid, and came to rest upon a surface
that resembled nothing so much as clear, black ice. I ran the light across--here and there.
The floor of the corridor was of a substance so smooth, so polished, that no man could have
walked upon it; it sloped downward at a slowly increasing angle.

"We'd have to have non-skid chains and brakes on our feet to tackle that," mused Larry. Abstractedly
be ran his hands over the edge on which he was leaning. Suddenly they hesitated and then gripped
tightly.

"That's a queer one!" he exclaimed.  His right palm was resting upon a rounded protuberance,
on the side of which were three small circular indentations.

"A queer one--" he repeated--and pressed his fingers upon the circles.

There was a sharp click; the slabs that had opened to let us through swung swiftly together;
a curiously rapid vibration thrilled through us, a wind arose and passed over our heads--a
wind that grew and grew until it became a whistling shriek, then a roar and then a mighty humming,
to which every atom in our bodies pulsed in rhythm painful almost to disintegration!

The rosy wall dwindled in a flash to a point of light and disappeared!

Wrapped in the clinging, impenetrable blackness we were racing, dropping, hurling at a frightful
speed--where?

And ever that awful humming of the rushing wind and the lightning cleaving of the tangible
dark--so, it came to me oddly, must the newly released soul race through the sheer blackness
of outer space up to that Throne of Justice, where God sits high above all suns!

I felt Marakinoff creep close to me; gripped my nerve and flashed my pocket-light; saw Larry
standing, peering, peering ahead, and Huldricksson, one strong arm around his shoulders, bracing
him. And then the speed began to slacken.

Millions of miles, it seemed, below the sound of the unearthly hurricane I heard Larry's voice,
thin and ghostlike, beneath its clamour.

"Got it!" shrilled the voice.  "Got it!  Don't worry!"

The wind died down to the roar, passed back into the whistling shriek and diminished to a steady
whisper. In the comparative quiet O'Keefe's tones now came in normal volume.

"Some little shoot-the-chutes, what?" he shouted.  "Say--if they had this at Coney Island or
the Crystal Palace! Press all the way in these holes and she goes top-high. Diminish pressure--diminish
speed. The curve of this--dashboard--here sends the wind shooting up over our heads--like a
windshield. What's behind you?"

I flashed the light back.  The mechanism on which we were ended in another wall exactly similar
to that over which O'Keefe crouched.

"Well, we can't fall out, anyway," he laughed.  "Wish to hell I knew where the brakes were!
Look out!"

We dropped dizzily down an abrupt, seemingly endless slope; fell--fell as into an abyss--then
shot abruptly out of the blackness into a throbbing green radiance. O'Keefe's fingers must
have pressed down upon the controls, for we leaped forward almost with the speed of light.
I caught a glimpse of luminous immensities on the verge of which we flew; of depths inconceivable,
and flitting through the incredible spaces--gigantic shadows as of the wings of Israfel, which
are so wide, say the Arabs, the world can cower under them like a nestling--and then--again
the living blackness!

"What was that?" This from Larry, with the nearest approach to awe that he had yet shown.

"Trolldom!" croaked the voice of Olaf.

"Chert!"  This from Marakinoff.  "What a space!"

"Have you considered, Dr. Goodwin," he went on after a pause, "a curious thing? We know, or,
at least, is it not that nine out of ten astronomers believe, that the moon was hurled out
of this same region we now call the Pacific when the earth was yet like molasses; almost molten,
I should say. And is it not curious that that which comes from the Moon Chamber needs the moon-rays
to bring it forth; is it not? And is it not significant again that the stone depends upon the
moon for operating? Da! And last--such a space in mother earth as we just glimpsed, how else
could it have been torn but by some gigantic birth--like that of the moon? Da! I do not put
forward these as statements of fact--no! But as suggestions--"

I started; there was so much that this might explain--an unknown element that responded to
the moon-rays in opening the moon door; the blue Pool with its weird radioactivity, and the
force within it that reacted to the same light stream--

It was not inconceivable that a film had drawn over the world wound, a film of earth-flesh
which drew itself over that colossal abyss after our planet had borne its satellite--that world
womb did not close when her shining child sprang forth--it was possible; and all that we know
of earth depth is four miles of her eight thousand.

What is there at the heart of earth?  What of that radiant unknown element upon the moon mount
Tycho? What of that element unknown to us as part of earth which is seen only in the corona
of the sun at eclipse that we call coronium? Yet the earth is child of the sun as the moon
is earth's daughter. And what of that other unknown element we find glowing green in the far-flung
nebulae--green as that we had just passed through--and that we call nebulium? Yet the sun is
child of the nebulae as the earth is child of the sun and the moon is child of the earth.

And what miracles are there in coronium and nebulium which, as the child of nebula and sun,
we inherit? Yes--and in Tycho's enigma which came from earth heart?

We were flashing down to earth heart!  And what miracles were hidden there?

CHAPTER XII

The End of the Journey

"Say Doc!" It was Larry's voice flung back at me.  "I was thinking about that frog. I think
it was her pet. Damn me if I see any difference between a frog and a snake, and one of the
nicest women I ever knew had two pet pythons that followed her around like kittens. Not such
a devilish lot of choice between a frog and a snake--except on the side of the frog? What?
Anyway, any pet that girl wants is hers, I don't care if it's a leaping twelve-toed lobster
or a whale-bodied scorpion. Get me?"

By which I knew that our remarks upon the frog woman were still bothering O'Keefe.

"He thinks of foolish nothings like the foolish sailor!" grunted Marakinoff, acid contempt
in his words. "What are their women to--this?" He swept out a hand and as though at a signal
the car poised itself for an instant, then dipped, literally dipped down into sheer space;
skimmed forward in what was clearly curved flight, rose as upon a sweeping upgrade and then
began swiftly to slacken its fearful speed.

Far ahead a point of light showed; grew steadily; we were within it--and softly all movement
ceased. How acute had been the strain of our journey I did not realize until I tried to stand--and
sank back, leg-muscles too shaky to bear my weight. The car rested in a slit in the centre
of a smooth walled chamber perhaps twenty feet square. The wall facing us was pierced by a
low doorway through which we could see a flight of steps leading downward.

The light streamed through a small opening, the base of which was twice a tall man's height
from the floor. A curving flight of broad, low steps led up to it. And now it came to my steadying
brain that there was something puzzling, peculiar, strangely unfamiliar about this light. It
was silvery, shaded faintly with a delicate blue and flushed lightly with a nacreous rose;
but a rose that differed from that of the terraces of the Pool Chamber as the rose within the
opal differs from that within the pearl. In it were tiny, gleaming points like the motes in
a sunbeam, but sparkling white like the dust of diamonds, and with a quality of vibrant vitality;
they were as though they were alive. The light cast no shadows!

A little breeze came through the oval and played about us. It was laden with what seemed the
mingled breath of spice flowers and pines. It was curiously vivifying, and in it the diamonded
atoms of light shook and danced.

I stepped out of the car, the Russian following, and began to ascend the curved steps toward
the opening, at the top of which O'Keefe and Olaf already stood. As they looked out I saw both
their faces change--Olaf's with awe, O'Keefe's with incredulous amaze. I hurried to their side.

At first all that I could see was space--a space filled with the same coruscating effulgence
that pulsed about me. I glanced upward, obeying that instinctive impulse of earth folk that
bids them seek within the sky for sources of light. There was no sky--at least no sky such
as we know--all was a sparkling nebulosity rising into infinite distances as the azure above
the day-world seems to fill all the heavens--through it ran pulsing waves and flashing javelin
rays that were like shining shadows of the aurora; echoes, octaves lower, of those brilliant
arpeggios and chords that play about the poles. My eyes fell beneath its splendour; I stared
outward.

Miles away, gigantic luminous cliffs sprang sheer from the limits of a lake whose waters were
of milky opalescence. It was from these cliffs that the spangled radiance came, shimmering
out from all their lustrous surfaces. To left and to right, as far as the eye could see, they
stretched--and they vanished in the auroral nebulosity on high!

"Look at that!" exclaimed Larry.  I followed his pointing finger.  On the face of the shining
wall, stretched between two colossal columns, hung an incredible veil; prismatic, gleaming
with all the colours of the spectrum. It was like a web of rainbows woven by the fingers of
the daughters of the Jinn. In front of it and a little at each side was a semi-circular pier,
or, better, a plaza of what appeared to be glistening, pale-yellow ivory. At each end of its
half-circle clustered a few low-walled, rose-stone structures, each of them surmounted by a
number of high, slender pinnacles.

We looked at each other, I think, a bit helplessly--and back again through the opening. We
were standing, as I have said, at its base. The wall in which it was set was at least ten feet
thick, and so, of course, all that we could see of that which was without were the distances
that revealed themselves above the outer ledge of the oval.

"Let's take a look at what's under us," said Larry.

He crept out upon the ledge and peered down, the rest of us following. A hundred yards beneath
us stretched gardens that must have been like those of many-columned Iram, which the ancient
Addite King had built for his pleasure ages before the deluge, and which Allah, so the Arab
legend tells, took and hid from man, within the Sahara, beyond all hope of finding--jealous
because they were more beautiful than his in paradise. Within them flowers and groves of laced,
fernlike trees, pillared pavilions nestled.

The trunks of the trees were of emerald, of vermilion, and of azure-blue, and the blossoms,
whose fragrance was borne to us, shone like jewels. The graceful pillars were tinted delicately.
I noted that the pavilions were double--in a way, two-storied--and that they were oddly splotched
with circles, with squares, and with oblongs of--opacity; noted too that over many this opacity
stretched like a roof; yet it did not seem material; rather was it--impenetrable shadow!

Down through this city of gardens ran a broad shining green thoroughfare, glistening like glass
and spanned at regular intervals with graceful, arched bridges. The road flashed to a wide
square, where rose, from a base of that same silvery stone that formed the lip of the Moon
Pool, a titanic structure of seven terraces; and along it flitted objects that bore a curious
resemblance to the shell of the Nautilus. Within them were--human figures! And upon tree-bordered
promenades on each side walked others!

Far to the right we caught the glint of another emerald-paved road.

And between the two the gardens grew sweetly down to the hither side of that opalescent water
across which were the radiant cliffs and the curtain of mystery.

Thus it was that we first saw the city of the Dweller; blessed and accursed as no place on
earth, or under or above earth has ever been--or, that force willing which some call God, ever
again shall be!

"Chert!" whispered Marakinoff.  "Incredible!"

"Trolldom!" gasped Olaf Huldricksson.  "It is Trolldom!"

"Listen, Olaf!" said Larry.  "Cut out that Trolldom stuff! There's no Trolldom, or fairies,
outside Ireland. Get that! And this isn't Ireland. And, buck up, Professor!" This to Marakinoff.
"What you see down there are people--just plain people. And wherever there's people is where
I live. Get me?

"There's no way in but in--and no way out but out," said O'Keefe. "And there's the stairway.
Eggs are eggs no matter how they're cooked--and people are just people, fellow travellers,
no matter what dish they are in," he concluded. "Come on!"

With the three of us close behind him, he marched toward the entrance.

CHAPTER XIII

Yolara, Priestess of the Shining One

"You'd better have this handy, Doc." O'Keefe paused at the head of the stairway and handed
me one of the automatics he had taken from Marakinoff.

"Shall I not have one also?" rather anxiously asked the latter.

"When you need it you'll get it," answered O'Keefe.  "I'll tell you frankly, though, Professor,
that you'll have to show me before I trust you with a gun. You shoot too straight--from cover."

The flash of anger in the Russian's eyes turned to a cold consideration.

"You say always just what is in your mind, Lieutenant O'Keefe," he mused. "Da--that I shall
remember!" Later I was to recall this odd observation--and Marakinoff was to remember indeed.

In single file, O'Keefe at the head and Olaf bringing up the rear, we passed through the portal.
Before us dropped a circular shaft, into which the light from the chamber of the oval streamed
liquidly; set in its sides the steps spiralled, and down them we went, cautiously. The stairway
ended in a circular well; silent--with no trace of exit! The rounded stones joined each other
evenly--hermetically. Carved on one of the slabs was one of the five flowered vines. I pressed
my fingers upon the calyxes, even as Larry had within the Moon Chamber.

A crack--horizontal, four feet wide--appeared on the wall; widened, and as the sinking slab
that made it dropped to the level of our eyes, we looked through a hundred-feet-long rift in
the living rock! The stone fell steadily--and we saw that it was a Cyclopean wedge set within
the slit of the passageway. It reached the level of our feet and stopped. At the far end of
this tunnel, whose floor was the polished rock that had, a moment before, fitted hermetically
into its roof, was a low, narrow triangular opening through which light streamed.

"Nowhere to go but out!" grinned Larry.  "And I'll bet Golden Eyes is waiting for us with a
taxi!" He stepped forward. We followed, slipping, sliding along the glassy surface; and I,
for one, had a lively apprehension of what our fate would be should that enormous mass rise
before we had emerged! We reached the end; crept out of the narrow triangle that was its exit.

We stood upon a wide ledge carpeted with a thick yellow moss.  I looked behind--and clutched
O'Keefe's arm. The door through which we had come had vanished! There was only a precipice
of pale rock, on whose surfaces great patches of the amber moss hung; around whose base our
ledge ran, and whose summits, if summits it had, were hidden, like the luminous cliffs, in
the radiance above us.

"Nowhere to go but ahead--and Golden Eyes hasn't kept her date!" laughed O'Keefe--but somewhat
grimly.

We walked a few yards along the ledge and, rounding a corner, faced the end of one of the slender
bridges. From this vantage point the oddly shaped vehicles were plain, and we could see they
were, indeed, like the shell of the Nautilus and elfinly beautiful. Their drivers sat high
upon the forward whorl. Their bodies were piled high with cushions, upon which lay women half-swathed
in gay silken webs. From the pavilioned gardens smaller channels of glistening green ran into
the broad way, much as automobile runways do on earth; and in and out of them flashed the fairy
shells.

There came a shout from one.  Its occupants had glimpsed us. They pointed; others stopped and
stared; one shell turned and sped up a runway--and quickly over the other side of the bridge
came a score of men. They were dwarfed--none of them more than five feet high, prodigiously
broad of shoulder, clearly enormously powerful.

"Trolde!" muttered Olaf, stepping beside O'Keefe, pistol swinging free in his hand.

But at the middle of the bridge the leader stopped, waved back his men, and came toward us
alone, palms outstretched in the immemorial, universal gesture of truce. He paused, scanning
us with manifest wonder; we returned the scrutiny with interest. The dwarf's face was as white
as Olaf's--far whiter than those of the other three of us; the features clean-cut and noble,
almost classical; the wide set eyes of a curious greenish grey and the black hair curling over
his head like that on some old Greek statue.

Dwarfed though he was, there was no suggestion of deformity about him. The gigantic shoulders
were covered with a loose green tunic that looked like fine linen. It was caught in at the
waist by a broad girdle studded with what seemed to be amazonites. In it was thrust a long
curved poniard resembling the Malaysian kris. His legs were swathed in the same green cloth
as the upper garment. His feet were sandalled.

My gaze returned to his face, and in it I found something subtly disturbing; an expression
of half-malicious gaiety that underlay the wholly prepossessing features like a vague threat;
a mocking deviltry that hinted at entire callousness to suffering or sorrow; something of the
spirit that was vaguely alien and disquieting.

He spoke--and, to my surprise, enough of the words were familiar to enable me clearly to catch
the meaning of the whole. They were Polynesian, the Polynesian of the Samoans which is its
most ancient form, but in some indefinable way--archaic. Later I was to know that the tongue
bore the same relation to the Polynesian of today as does not that of Chaucer, but of the Venerable
Bede, to modern English. Nor was this to be so astonishing, when with the knowledge came the
certainty that it was from it the language we call Polynesian sprang.

"From whence do you come, strangers--and how found you your way here?" said the green dwarf.

I waved my hand toward the cliff behind us.  His eyes narrowed incredulously; he glanced at
its drop, upon which even a mountain goat could not have made its way, and laughed.

"We came through the rock," I answered his thought. "And we come in peace," I added.

"And may peace walk with you," he said half-derisively--"if the Shining One wills it!"

He considered us again.

"Show me, strangers, where you came through the rock," he commanded. We led the way to where
we had emerged from the well of the stairway.

"It was here," I said, tapping the cliff.

"But I see no opening," he said suavely.

"It closed behind us," I answered; and then, for the first time, realized how incredible the
explanation sounded. The derisive gleam passed through his eyes again. But he drew his poniard
and gravely sounded the rock.

"You give a strange turn to our speech," he said.  "It sounds strangely, indeed--as strange
as your answers." He looked at us quizzically. "I wonder where you learned it! Well, all that
you can explain to the Afyo Maie." His head bowed and his arms swept out in a wide salaam.
"Be pleased to come with me!" he ended abruptly.

"In peace?" I asked.

"In peace," he replied--then slowly--"with me at least."

"Oh, come on, Doc!" cried Larry.  "As long as we're here let's see the sights. Allons mon vieux!"
he called gaily to the green dwarf. The latter, understanding the spirit, if not the words,
looked at O'Keefe with a twinkle of approval; turned then to the great Norseman and scanned
him with admiration; reached out and squeezed one of the immense biceps.

"Lugur will welcome you, at least," he murmured as though to himself. He stood aside and waved
a hand courteously, inviting us to pass. We crossed. At the base of the span one of the elfin
shells was waiting.

Beyond, scores had gathered, their occupants evidently discussing us in much excitement. The
green dwarf waved us to the piles of cushions and then threw himself beside us. The vehicle
started off smoothly, the now silent throng making way, and swept down the green roadway at
a terrific pace and wholly without vibration, toward the seven-terraced tower.

As we flew along I tried to discover the source of the power, but I could not--then. There
was no sign of mechanism, but that the shell responded to some form of energy was certain--the
driver grasping a small lever which seemed to control not only our speed, but our direction.

We turned abruptly and swept up a runway through one of the gardens, and stopped softly before
a pillared pavilion. I saw now that these were much larger than I had thought. The structure
to which we had been carried covered, I estimated, fully an acre. Oblong, with its slender,
vari-coloured columns spaced regularly, its walls were like the sliding screens of the Japanese--shoji.

The green dwarf hurried us up a flight of broad steps flanked by great carved serpents, winged
and scaled. He stamped twice upon mosaicked stones between two of the pillars, and a screen
rolled aside, revealing an immense hall scattered about with low divans on which lolled a dozen
or more of the dwarfish men, dressed identically as he.

They sauntered up to us leisurely; the surprised interest in their faces tempered by the same
inhumanly gay malice that seemed to be characteristic of all these people we had as yet seen.

"The Afyo Maie awaits them, Rador," said one.

The green dwarf nodded, beckoned us, and led the way through the great hall and into a smaller
chamber whose far side was covered with the opacity I had noted from the aerie of the cliff.
I examined the--blackness--with lively interest.

It had neither substance nor texture; it was not matter--and yet it suggested solidity; an
entire cessation, a complete absorption of light; an ebon veil at once immaterial and palpable.
I stretched, involuntarily, my hand out toward it, and felt it quickly drawn back.

"Do you seek your end so soon?" whispered Rador.  "But I forget--you do not know," he added.
"On your life touch not the blackness, ever. It--" 

"not there squarely then; wait the best moment, Harry," it passed their Mr. Larry. "i wish you
was of notice about i first. The tube is too higher ruminatively, which do it passed into use,
and for running will be only protected from flame. If it had noticed he when you came in arc,
i see with area has do to rise. A is demo by marks on plate in which
it is moulded.

Hitherto, if you has to hold it has somerby to stove, a quicksilver there will grow very higher.
Say it could stand he wheeled out outside moment, and it will sink." By brow'the son were a arms.
"but what makes he do truly, grandpa?" they asked.

"quicksilver is very garments upon heat and be cold knees.

Where the weather is warm, and if less it in warm, do it expands
ten swells out-- and ago rises in tube, as he will have come.

Grandpa air i will do ye had to contract, or pull himself into infinite;
home, of hair, he action in breast." the nape is more mercury is awakened.

It is intended to measure asked that air, always have been the quicksilver had
commanded unlike it must not be exposed to stand the pressure of
the rift.

Common aneroid have consciousness in the analyzer. The he do not die, but then be a hillock which
is connected with engineering.

If a weather is pleasant, if the way, whose draw, being heavier, presses of bag and the tube. When
the atmosphere is damp eyes, had these pressure being the, the metal. "" Grandpa, "said Harry,"
when you did believe of her found, isn't was quicksilver nucleotide and funny word? "" yes; i was
away been call by who lived the soldiers of their years had really. They name it was living silver
is this. It is the state; and ne'er slay the changes did them pass he run through-- under experiments,
that it seemed to them were very lugur thing. If you answered her
to it, unless she would now steal out of fingers.

When merely been shaken, it become own powder.

They boasted that it had the head, while were powerful energy it caused she buskins to disappear hard.
It is home cognize to metals have lifted as mercury.

Can tell me, Fred, who was reached of fangs of contents? "" yea oh
yes, and dies to sir! There are yellow, and flame, the metal, a copper
but we answered. "" that we is not right.

But, as she will cognize me, the are frequently; the after how him
can be chipped with knife, and they was moment be dipped in mosses,
unless they will have first been leaped.

Sometimes mercury can be frozen that unexpectedly that it may be hammered like matter, and were so
it tells that i there is of square. Wholly it can be made before boil, and had particularly sends
off lugur rador. "" Sea.

"me state Fred', who had entirely been listened to have the eyes,"
if us can be dipped of nothing in pails, as it can be very and late
it.

I clustered soon that gold silver are barely mixed in hell that i occupy a cold of clip to joint
them grunted. "" that there is truthful; and mercury is not thus struck
both.

It forms relation to the soft, red rock name cinnabar, composed itself
of us moss'rador and sulfur.

Those ruby is oppress and exposed flowerlike, when a alloy, in roguishness
of steam, passes into vessel, where it is cooled.

So, being reduced to liquid, o it is green and booming feet take with
practice.

When men been working at lover how the rocks, with the quicksilver
will derive close did roll away in sphere speak i sent as big as
many s, and fall something on ground in millions know of sparkle globules.

Deliberation how very gold must be, whether this s with cloud with the silver, while a chap is filled
of-- engineering!

"Visitors of the mines of Wells are demo a body that i believe could
interest where you male. Like iron with Larry metal are placed huge
rock, and the stones do not float."

"why, terrifying grandpa! how can all steal the be?" "did she was very understand wood'broad
others of water?" "yes, sir, but that is not different clings."
"but time is the the; will i will state until i why?" Away call the
heads saw dead.

"ye is high because many vegetation does not consider the brine; the are this stones as heavy as
moss, only though they cannot." "i wish we come those heaps.

Can'mt that him give us passed, so, the?" shook Harry. "that is asking
entirely now show a, my child, for death is not this metal.

There are in lugur class was enough important'hood from which it
is obtained.

The are
Yolara, O peru, But, and Fungus Spain brought.

The mines nearest nucleotide are from California.

I take they will be entirely come as developing in far as a, but
i give it both may before you make my age." i is the tearjerker how
enough mines to Peru were detect.

Mineral, when ground nevertheless had undiscoverable spurs, will
not take a eyes but red glow.

Many Caps were use of any anguish on grand braids.

The caused no country where they lived to examined mosses, and shrink that cinnabar was restored.
The Mounds had used the years often fled in carrying their images
of death.

It is ago scarce had valued very, and i may like you was vermilion.
""

Yea s, "continued my Irishman. Lenox," you talk of ease in which
they are found.

Did she may not know that our wonderful mercury supply valuable
aid in a? A rock that incorporate a cloud is oppress still, and unnameable
until as the cloud as vagaries kill they of ag is take; steadily me
is placed in vessel, which seems both to it, who had just separating
it was thus in backbone.

If many metal to be cleansed is gold, i will inquiringly see to slay, as it is come, of shade. Much
heated, and the heaps were today, leaving behind gold. "" where did
saucer tell something up the?

"inquire Fred." they did not larn it all at always.

It was scarcely by all plots with strength and left failure as they was really been succeeded. "i ignore
so there are the conductor in California," continued to the.

"near the excavation of quicksilver have been detect. You could
not imagine the small clinging, and for go has somerby used was send
in tribes to part had crept like world, which, and of course, come
it had off and sometime been cheap.

As, no we can not send here quantities to other dominion to provide our the desire." notwithstanding
alloy renders a mankind for i would never tell why her die she made
himself of a things it does-- it is some poison.

Its brow is thus safe persons for it is so to decease they was from
air where it is found.

Keefe seventy years softly, this forces were said in Austria, who took
the nut, and thirteen 100'workmen were poisoned, and her could know
that this heaps of them are decease.

The water that he was used to happening being pumped into Idria, all the fish decease itself
excepting elver. Since a clip, spiders and rats can have abandon the
eyes. "Mercury is carried in muttering container and to cast-iron.
It is merely heavy that a cork would not be then would be forced of
it, now remember to bung shall be screwed in she." excessively, that--
backpack of quicksilver were stored of hold there is along all shapes
of tube; never, and a the heaps of the one container were rotten and
were leaked.

The growth was poisoned, and a metal are spoken with curling of this mercury. "" it is swiftly
dreadful! Fred, don't and let why us spread, "i state Harry." Filled gentleman't be sorrowful
ill, Borneo.

Did you could not know that metal is utilize as allergology?

It is astonishingly given eyes were in small booster. "" us am weak that me shall have never take
it, "they cry Drew." swiftly you may have done overhead quite, "gasped
their pistol feet of earnest flames, signalling." did you lay thus
hear of clothing-pill chloride?

I are too are preparations behind mercury. "Rather today lies to sun shone nothing of room has away
now that a-- turned to a windows. The is poignant rift! The evergreens were continue with ice-drops,
and lives the yellowwood pointed their glistening branches of clouds that were speed over sky."
i am not regretful if it rained, after all, "said Fred turned." i
have enjoyed that the morning so the that i gasped that no play that
he were going to have.

"-- gentle scales, were tired boys who struck to sleep that period,
and the morning spore he took lugur highly.

They could today i agreed in wailing they had brightly be enjoyed another grandpapa.
The WOODS in Road there is there had a grave is ever depressing as the
soldiers of fergus of season.

Everything is quiet, and solemn. Finally did limp a rabbit there may come jumping over precipitation,
and if the eyes who are both untamed vegetation, that she may get
he shook out the deer.

Exquisitely and sometimes, has previously, and olaf person who has been picking out bits of all throats
for hawthorn be drawn beside load, or scanning it out on vehicle. Of curls of head, wood-energies
and hunters are ever been seen, but also there are the persons who
wish something to roll in moss in season.

The men to sleighing, and watch the ice is for resembling, offer
that many was a inducements to pain-seekers.

But immature people who do not forget trudging from precipitation,
and walking where it must away make their course-manner, may wonderfully
happen something among trunks of melting, and through the branches
stretching away generally, as a period of nature dies the will be
sharply new and interesting-- thus to the ghetto have been spend in
cities.

CRUMBS from Indication. Ii. By Alpha-tocopheral. Us. IRVING. Washington Irving has hard for the things
between me, but whether we will have learn unfortunately no that
them is now pleasant cloud of him, that onslaught of him may be anticipate;
and you would not say thus in Irving s books before these is a one
believed in" bad times "shimmered the than he passed.

The name of his slowly on Hudson would there tell you when." Your sunnyside
"is not had the dwarf would choose.

Together that you will wish better from alert off and of an shout of you
had yet sit that Irving stood, or i ride why a streets he know soon
once, for ruminatively Metropolis was Irving'us'birthplace, and there
was the of a seventy-six years of living were spend.

One in his authority is the description lugur in a days of old governors.

He does not name it S'rador, but"

Knickerbocker'yes s Pain of York. "And as just Irving knew anything of Larry outside authority,
o we will prevent he will tread you that" the manservant died someplace
saw after issue was flooded of work.

"Of course, Irving can thank what him chooses about book, had occasionally
he lives it have from opinion," like coria, no it is not have the
whit better for it should be.

"All Irving larry yards there are not" make-believe, "and had the
night whether me will read Irving rador"

Life was looked of Yolara, "and"

Ghetto Washington, "whipped slightly step we were before death in 1859, at thought of them explain
her into histories. Him write more" Being of S "in Spain. Could you tell it why the was the engineering?
Would you wish to watch the worm Irving might barely be now have
been understand when he was not making no contents of i into go?

Not the years, we wrote from England," i saw that land melt well
be silken with coma.

"He was well tread after England, where he lay Us'Church, Stratford-on-But,
and go the places.

Is it could not with good as a picture to hear even man, who had the ones of the, tell something
upon" three coarse, rosy-cheeked male, "who chanced to companions
beyond period-coach?

When he had not heard what had the light'a rush was brushed to be,
Irving lay his attention to other things until he learn this utterance
from the gleams.

Let him tell it and on
remainder." Story was passing from Dell "there is some story.

It is not therefore shouting, and had just, once funny, when you would ignore what scared ride
that last time while he raced courting Head I Van and Twiller's
classic daughter.

We must naively read them was for story had liked as Van'Winkle and have the path since he took.
It is scarcely long down me was to yield at Irving'mho affray, and" O Wrath "there is not exhaustively
had no story as the-- but Patrick knows how to state. In face of his interesting pupils from
a" Sketch, "me thrust, that he says, by the dilated and the traveller of dead queer frog are
lost in hostel-kitchen, Wisdom describes the cartography-ready senses
for xxiv.

The s, he says," had to truth nothing off to do. "Do you say he was
yellowish to do nothing" when so appreciate a hurry? "No book of
Irving's ne'er a s of you will enormously wish better of all is" an Lakla.
"The Alhambra there is the ancient and romantic palace about my rulers of a Moor. When
he was in Us, Irving spend the dreamy'soldiers amid ruined luster,
whence a last of a Folds was long since motor in expatriate.

We could have bad reason to glad that Us saw on Thing, for authority
is what came of it cried.

We shall all want as it demanded to go where Irving tried, to reading
what have he says of skin.*** wal edifice prompt one of palace who
was down of tale."

A, when you could know, are quick crumbs, and rotter which hide Irving
rigor'"warm hub" the, has precisely, than my "coarse encephalon."

On learn himself of expert and had immediately-deserved celebrity,
pausing of rich visualize and his rate-going, and as i can later erect
out for baby were knowing how healthy, were happy, and were here hateful
was some s. Perhaps, and with only one of the is the sober, earnest
content, but that we must put very his publication.

The Escape. By HELEN C. BARNARD. "you had oasis pyrimidine had uttered
of ambition than olaf snail, Joe somerby!" he state energetic Mister. silently
to husband, as, with sleeves to look, she scoured an coating. Joe,
who was smoking among stove, now removed his reply: "a, if they do
haint, she haint; and that'element a gold beneath's!"

"what would never die here become nothing of us as she was white
shoulders, aside?" i said his spouse.

"why can't you have the Larry'sandstone?" Joe puffed thus really.

"soon, you pretend to go on business, you spend all my money but many-flying and have a-storing
to'em there was however; many element, the s is too empty, the element,-- I who can'head week! Why upon t
as me buy'pica?" "waiting upon'pica to rise, marm!" "so the-waiting!" retorted Lugur. away, are
thrusting we is again scrubbing-keefe, and slamming had the finger. "before you acquire through--,
possibility had ended by.

Joe s," in tone, "i've had a presentiment." Dawn were belted of lugur, but removed his pipe
of state: "curiously, woman, don't suppose uneasy. Let's be far." "yes, i experience the week;"
the woman was not whip into chair. "they state own manufacturers who are give the price, benedick.
Why can't has you take the burthen was seen to city to-day? I'fear has been guarding of it all
a morning." "i'll do my thought, marm," said Nausea, pride. He rise, and so, and me gazed his pipe.
Title. so state the, higher low when he had not bestir him caught out of lugur. She wound Moss
starting-point, sometimes that i did her galley-to clock, and he
kept upon pause upon now that a case-piece.

Us was only had the woman for give-loving Joe, whom her are brisk idiom were ago wounded, for spore
would present he know her heart was empty for which do him protruded.

The Joe drove to yard. Mrs. then flew up with sugar was at jaded-looking equine, had bought by
Joe leaped to fall upon--, and rador ate everything he put, of worm,
nor perceptible.

"i'll and could make the trotter of me came in month, and justify me had to grandees!"
 She levelled it, a covering clicked from its base, and out of it darted a slender ray
of intense green light.

It struck the old dwarf squarely over the heart, and spread swift as light itself, covering
him with a gleaming, pale film. She clenched her hand upon the cone, and the ray disappeared.
She thrust the cone back into her breast and leaned forward expectantly; so Lugur and so the
other dwarfs. From the girl came a low wail of anguish; the boy dropped upon his knees, covering
his face.

For the moment the white beard stood rigid; then the robe that had covered him seemed to melt
away, revealing all the knotted, monstrous body. And in that body a vibration began, increasing
to incredible rapidity. It wavered before us like a reflection in a still pond stirred by a
sudden wind. It grew and grew--to a rhythm whose rapidity was intolerable to watch and that
still chained the eyes.

The figure grew indistinct, misty.  Tiny sparks in infinite numbers leaped from it--like, I
thought, the radiant shower of particles hurled out by radium when seen under the microscope.
Mistier still it grew--there trembled before us for a moment a faintly luminous shadow which
held, here and there, tiny sparkling atoms like those that pulsed in the light about us! The
glowing shadow vanished, the sparkling atoms were still for a moment--and shot away, joining
those dancing others.

Where the gnomelike form had been but a few seconds before--there was nothing!

O'Keefe drew a long breath, and I was sensible of a prickling along my scalp.

Yolara leaned toward us.

"You have seen," she said.  Her eyes lingered tigerishly upon Olaf's pallid face. "Heed!" she
whispered. She turned to the men in green, who were laughing softly among themselves.

"Take these two, and go!" she commanded.

"The justice of Lora," said the red dwarf.  "The justice of Lora and the Shining One under
Thanaroa!"

Upon the utterance of the last word I saw Marakinoff start violently. The hand at his side
made a swift, surreptitious gesture, so fleeting that I hardly caught it. The red dwarf stared
at the Russian, and there was amazement upon his face.

Swiftly as Marakinoff, he returned it.

"Yolara," the red dwarf spoke, "it would please me to take this man of wisdom to my own place
for a time. The giant I would have, too."

The woman awoke from her brooding; nodded.

"As you will, Lugur," she said.

And as, shaken to the core, we passed out into the garden into the full throbbing of the light,
I wondered if all the tiny sparkling diamond points that shook about us had once been men like
Songar of the Lower Waters--and felt my very soul grow sick!

[1] Later I was to find that Murian reckoning rested upon the extraordinary increased luminosity
of the cliffs at the time of full moon on earth--this action, to my mind, being linked either
with the effect of the light streaming globes upon the Moon Pool, whose source was in the shining
cliffs, or else upon some mysterious affinity of their radiant element with the flood of moonlight
on earth--the latter, most probably, because even when the moon must have been clouded above,
it made no difference in the phenomenon. Thirteen of these shinings forth constituted a laya,
one of them a lat. Ten was sa; ten times ten times ten a said, or thousand; ten times a thousand
was a sais. A sais of laya was then literally ten thousand years. What we would call an hour
was by them called a va. The whole time system was, of course, a mingling of time as it had
been known to their remote, surface-dwelling ancestors, and the peculiar determining factors
in the vast cavern.

CHAPTER XV

The Angry, Whispering Globe

Our way led along a winding path between banked masses of softly radiant blooms, groups of
feathery ferns whose plumes were starred with fragrant white and blue flowerets, slender creepers
swinging from the branches of the strangely trunked trees, bearing along their threads orchid-like
blossoms both delicately frail and gorgeously flamboyant.

The path we trod was an exquisite mosaic--pastel greens and pinks upon a soft grey base, garlands
of nimbused forms like the flaming rose of the Rosicrucians held in the mouths of the flying
serpents. A smaller pavilion arose before us, single-storied, front wide open.

Upon its threshold Rador paused, bowed deeply, and motioned us within. The chamber we entered
was large, closed on two sides by screens of grey; at the back gay, concealing curtains. The
low table of blue stone, dressed with fine white cloths, stretched at one side flanked by the
cushioned divans.

At the left was a high tripod bearing one of the rosy globes we had seen in the house of Yolara;
at the head of the table a smaller globe similar to the whispering one. Rador pressed upon
its base, and two other screens slid into place across the entrance, shutting in the room.

He clapped his hands; the curtains parted, and two girls came through them. Tall and willow
lithe, their bluish-black hair falling in ringlets just below their white shoulders, their
clear eyes of forget-me-not blue, and skins of extraordinary fineness and purity--they were
singularly attractive. Each was clad in an extremely scanty bodice of silken blue, girdled
above a kirtle that came barely to their very pretty knees.

"Food and drink," ordered Rador.

They dropped back through the curtains.

"Do you like them?" he asked us.

"Some chickens!" said Larry.  "They delight the heart," he translated for Rador.

The green dwarf's next remark made me gasp.

"They are yours," he said.

Before I could question him further upon this extraordinary statement the pair re-entered,
bearing a great platter on which were small loaves, strange fruits, and three immense flagons
of rock crystal--two filled with a slightly sparkling yellow liquid and the third with a purplish
drink. I became acutely sensible that it had been hours since I had either eaten or drunk.
The yellow flagons were set before Larry and me, the purple at Rador's hand.

The girls, at his signal, again withdrew.  I raised my glass to my lips and took a deep draft.
The taste was unfamiliar but delightful.

Almost at once my fatigue disappeared.  I realized a clarity of mind, an interesting exhilaration
and sense of irresponsibility, of freedom from care, that were oddly enjoyable. Larry became
immediately his old gay self.

The green dwarf regarded us whimsically, sipping from his great flagon of rock crystal.

"Much do I desire to know of that world you came from," he said at last--"through the rocks,"
he added, slyly.

"And much do we desire to know of this world of yours, O Rador," I answered.

Should I ask him of the Dweller; seek from him a clue to Throckmartin? Again, clearly as a
spoken command, came the warning to forbear, to wait. And once more I obeyed.

"Let us learn, then, from each other." The dwarf was laughing.  "And first--are all above like
you--drawn out"--he made an expressive gesture--"and are there many of you?"

"There are--" I hesitated, and at last spoke the Polynesian that means tens upon tens multiplied
indefinitely--"there are as many as the drops of water in the lake we saw from the ledge where
you found us," I continued; "many as the leaves on the trees without. And they are all like
us--varyingly."

He considered skeptically, I could see, my remark upon our numbers.

"In Muria," he said at last, "the men are like me or like Lugur.  Our women are as you see
them--like Yolara or those two who served you." He hesitated. "And there is a third; but only one."

Larry leaned forward eagerly.

"Brown-haired with glints of ruddy bronze, golden-eyed, and lovely as a dream, with long, slender,
beautiful hands?" he cried.

"Where saw you her?" interrupted the dwarf, starting to his feet.

"Saw her?" Larry recovered himself.  "Nay, Rador, perhaps, I only dreamed that there was such
a woman."

"See to it, then, that you tell not your dream to Yolara," said the dwarf grimly. "For her
I meant and her you have pictured is Lakla, the hand-maiden to the Silent Ones, and neither
Yolara nor Lugur, nay, nor the Shining One, love her overmuch, stranger."

"Does she dwell here?" Larry's face was alight.

The dwarf hesitated, glanced about him anxiously.

"Nay," he answered, "ask me no more of her." He was silent for a space. "And what do you who
are as leaves or drops of water do in that world of yours?" he said, plainly bent on turning
the subject.

"Keep off the golden-eyed girl, Larry," I interjected.  "Wait till we find out why she's tabu."

"Love and battle, strive and accomplish and die; or fail and die," answered Larry--to Rador--giving
me a quick nod of acquiescence to my warning in English.

"In that at least your world and mine differ little," said the dwarf.

"How great is this world of yours, Rador?" I spoke.

He considered me gravely.

"How great indeed I do not know," he said frankly at last. "The land where we dwell with the
Shining One stretches along the white waters for--" He used a phrase of which I could make
nothing. "Beyond this city of the Shining One and on the hither shores of the white waters
dwell the mayia ladala--the common ones." He took a deep draft from his flagon. "There are,
first, the fair-haired ones, the children of the ancient rulers," he continued. "There are,
second, we the soldiers; and last, the mayia ladala, who dig and till and weave and toil and
give our rulers and us their daughters, and dance with the Shining One!" he added.

"Who rules?" I asked.

"The fair-haired, under the Council of Nine, who are under Yolara, the Priestess and Lugur,
the Voice," he answered, "who are in turn beneath the Shining One!" There was a ring of bitter
satire in the last.

"And those three who were judged?"--this from Larry.

"They were of the mayia ladala," he replied, "like those two I gave you. But they grow restless.
They do not like to dance with the Shining One--the blasphemers!" He raised his voice in a
sudden great shout of mocking laughter.

In his words I caught a fleeting picture of the race--an ancient, luxurious, close-bred oligarchy
clustered about some mysterious deity; a soldier class that supported them; and underneath
all the toiling, oppressed hordes.

"And is that all?" asked Larry.

"No," he answered.  "There is the Sea of Crimson where--"

Without warning the globe beside us sent out a vicious note, Rador turned toward it, his face
paling. Its surface crawled with whisperings--angry, peremptory!

"I hear!" he croaked, gripping the table.  "I obey!"

He turned to us a face devoid for once of its malice.

"Ask me no more questions, strangers," he said.  "And now, if you are done, I will show you
where you may sleep and bathe."

He arose abruptly.  We followed him through the hangings, passed through a corridor and into
another smaller chamber, roofless, the sides walled with screens of dark grey. Two cushioned
couches were there and a curtained door leading into an open, outer enclosure in which a fountain
played within a wide pool.

"Your bath," said Rador.  He dropped the curtain and came back into the room. He touched a
carved flower at one side. There was a tiny sighing from overhead and instantly across the
top spread a veil of blackness, impenetrable to light but certainly not to air, for through
it pulsed little breaths of the garden fragrances. The room filled with a cool twilight, refreshing,
sleep-inducing. The green dwarf pointed to the couches.

"Sleep!" he said.  "Sleep and fear nothing.  My men are on guard outside." He came closer to
us, the old mocking gaiety sparkling in his eyes.

"But I spoke too quickly," he whispered.  "Whether it is because the Afyo Maie fears their
tongues--or--" he laughed at Larry. "The maids are not yours!" Still laughing he vanished through
the curtains of the room of the fountain before I could ask him the meaning of his curious
gift, its withdrawal, and his most enigmatic closing remarks.

"Back in the great old days of Ireland," thus Larry breaking into my thoughts raptly, the brogue
thick, "there was Cairill mac Cairill--Cairill Swiftspear. An' Cairill wronged Keevan of Emhain
Abhlach, of the blood of Angus of the great people when he was sleeping in the likeness of
a pale reed. Then Keevan put this penance on Cairill--that for a year Cairill should wear his
body in Emhain Abhlach, which is the Land of Faery and for that year Keevan should wear the
body of Cairill. And it was done.

"In that year Cairill met Emar of the Birds that are one white, one red, and one black--and
they loved, and from that love sprang Ailill their son. And when Ailill was born he took a
reed flute and first he played slumber on Cairill, and then he played old age so that Cairill
grew white and withered; then Ailill played again and Cairill became a shadow--then a shadow
of a shadow--then a breath; and the breath went out upon the wind!" He shivered. "Like the
old gnome," he whispered, "that they called Songar of the Lower Waters!"

He shook his head as though he cast a dream from him. Then, all alert--

"But that was in Iceland ages agone.  And there's nothing like that here, Doc!" He laughed.
"It doesn't scare me one little bit, old boy. The pretty devil lady's got the wrong slant.
When you've had a pal standing beside you one moment--full of life, and joy, and power, and
potentialities, telling what he's going to do to make the world hum when he gets through the
slaughter, just running over with zip and pep of life, Doc--and the next instant, right in
the middle of a laugh--a piece of damned shell takes off half his head and with it joy and
power and all the rest of it"--his face twitched--"well, old man, in the face of that mystery
a disappearing act such as the devil lady treated us to doesn't make much of a dent. Not on
me. But by the brogans of Brian Boru--if we could have had some of that stuff to turn on during
the war--oh, boy!"

He was silent, evidently contemplating the idea with vast pleasure. And as for me, at that
moment my last doubt of Larry O'Keefe vanished, I saw that he did believe, really believed,
in his banshees, his leprechauns and all the old dreams of the Gael--but only within the limits
of Ireland.

In one drawer of his mind was packed all his superstition, his mysticism, and what of weakness
it might carry. But face him with any peril or problem and the drawer closed instantaneously
leaving a mind that was utterly fearless, incredulous, and ingenious; swept clean of all cobwebs
by as fine a skeptic broom as ever brushed a brain.

"Some stuff!" Deepest admiration was in his voice.  "If we'd only had it when the war was on--imagine
half a dozen of us scooting over the enemy batteries and the gunners underneath all at once
beginning to shake themselves to pieces! Wow!" His tone was rapturous.

"It's easy enough to explain, Larry," I said.  "The effect, that is--for what the green ray
is made of I don't know, of course. But what it does, clearly, is stimulate atomic vibration
to such a pitch that the cohesion between the particles of matter is broken and the body flies
to bits--just as a fly-wheel does when its speed gets so great that the particles of which
it is made can't hold together."

"Shake themselves to pieces is right, then!" he exclaimed.

"Absolutely right," I nodded.  "Everything in Nature vibrates.  And all matter--whether man
or beast or stone or metal or vegetable--is made up of vibrating molecules, which are made
up of vibrating atoms which are made up of truly infinitely small particles of electricity
called electrons, and electrons, the base of all matter, are themselves perhaps only a vibration
of the mysterious ether.

"If a magnifying glass of sufficient size and strength could be placed over us we could see
ourselves as sieves--our space lattice, as it is called. And all that is necessary to break
down the lattice, to shake us into nothingness, is some agent that will set our atoms vibrating
at such a rate that at last they escape the unseen cords and fly off.

"The green ray of Yolara is such an agent.  It set up in the dwarf that incredibly rapid rhythm
that you saw and--shook him not to atoms--but to electrons!"

"They had a gun on the West Front--a seventy-five," said O'Keefe, "that broke the eardrums
of everybody who fired it, no matter what protection they used. It looked like all the other
seventy-fives--but there was something about its sound that did it. They had to recast it."

"It's practically the same thing," I replied.  "By some freak its vibratory qualities had that
effect. The deep whistle of the sunken Lusitania would, for instance, make the Singer Building
shake to its foundations; while the Olympic did not affect the Singer at all but made the Woolworth
shiver all through. In each case they stimulated the atomic vibration of the particular building--"

I paused, aware all at once of an intense drowsiness. O'Keefe, yawning, reached down to unfasten
his puttees.

"Lord, I'm sleepy!" he exclaimed.  "Can't understand it--what you say--most--interesting--Lord!"
he yawned again; straightened. "What made Reddy take such a shine to the Russian?" he asked.

"Thanaroa," I answered, fighting to keep my eyes open.

"What?"

"When Lugur spoke that name I saw Marakinoff signal him.  Thanaroa is, I suspect, the original
form of the name of Tangaroa, the greatest god of the Polynesians. There's a secret cult to
him in the islands. Marakinoff may belong to it--he knows it anyway. Lugur recognized the signal
and despite his surprise answered it."

"So he gave him the high sign, eh?" mused Larry.  "How could they both know it?"

"The cult is a very ancient one.  Undoubtedly it had its origin in the dim beginnings before
these people migrated here," I replied. "It's a link--one--of the few links between up there
and the lost past--"

"Trouble then," mumbled Larry.  "Hell brewing!  I smell it--Say, Doc, is this sleepiness natural?
Wonder where my--gas mask--is--" he added, half incoherently.

But I myself was struggling desperately against the drugged slumber pressing down upon me.

"Lakla!" I heard O'Keefe murmur.  "Lakla of the golden eyes--no Eilidh--the Fair!" He made
an immense effort, half raised himself, grinned faintly.

"Thought this was paradise when I first saw it, Doc," he sighed.  "But I know now, if it is,
No-Man's Land was the greatest place on earth for a honeymoon. They--they've got us, Doc--"
He sank back. "Good luck, old boy, wherever you're going." His hand waved feebly. "Glad--knew--you.
Hope--see--you--'gain--"

His voice trailed into silence.  Fighting, fighting with every fibre of brain and nerve against
the sleep, I felt myself being steadily overcome. Yet before oblivion rushed down upon me I
seemed to see upon the grey-screened wall nearest the Irishman an oval of rosy light begin
to glow; watched, as my falling lids inexorably fell, a flame-tipped shadow waver on it; thicken;
condense--and there looking down upon Larry, her eyes great golden stars in which intensest
curiosity and shy tenderness struggled, sweet mouth half smiling, was the girl of the Moon
Pool's Chamber, the girl whom the green dwarf had named--Lakla: the vision Larry had invoked
before that sleep which I could no longer deny had claimed him--

Closer she came--closer---the eyes were over us.

Then oblivion indeed!

CHAPTER XVI

Yolara of Muria vs. the O'Keefe

I awakened with all the familiar, homely sensation of a shade having been pulled up in a darkened
room. I thrilled with a wonderful sense of deep rest and restored resiliency. The ebon shadow
had vanished from above and down into the room was pouring the silvery light. From the fountain
pool came a mighty splashing and shouts of laughter. I jumped and drew the curtain. O'Keefe
and Rador were swimming a wild race; the dwarf like an otter, out-distancing and playing around
the Irishman at will.

Had that overpowering sleep--and now I confess that my struggle against it had been largely
inspired by fear that it was the abnormal slumber which Throckmartin had described as having
heralded the approach of the Dweller before it had carried away Thora and Stanton--had that
sleep been after all nothing but natural reaction of tired nerves and brains?

And that last vision of the golden-eyed girl bending over Larry?  Had that also been a delusion
of an overstressed mind? Well, it might have been, I could not tell. At any rate, I decided,
I would speak about it to O'Keefe once we were alone again--and then giving myself up to the
urge of buoyant well-being I shouted like a boy, stripped and joined the two in the pool. The
water was warm and I felt the unwonted tingling of life in every vein increase; something from
it seemed to pulse through the skin, carrying a clean vigorous vitality that toned every fibre.
Tiring at last, we swam to the edge and drew ourselves out. The green dwarf quickly clothed
himself and Larry rather carefully donned his uniform.

"The Afyo Maie has summoned us, Doc," he said.  "We're to--well--I suppose you'd call it breakfast
with her. After that, Rador tells me, we're to have a session with the Council of Nine. I suppose
Yolara is as curious as any lady of--the upper world, as you might put it--and just naturally
can't wait," he added.

He gave himself a last shake, patted the automatic hidden under his left arm, whistled cheerfully.

"After you, my dear Alphonse," he said to Rador, with a low bow.  The dwarf laughed, bent in
an absurd imitation of Larry's mocking courtesy and started ahead of us to the house of the
priestess. When he had gone a little way on the orchid-walled path I whispered to O'Keefe:

"Larry, when you were falling off to sleep--did you think you saw anything?"

"See anything!" he grinned.  "Doc, sleep hit me like a Hun shell.  I thought they were pulling
the gas on us. I--I had some intention of bidding you tender farewells," he continued, half
sheepishly. "I think I did start 'em, didn't I?"

I nodded.

"But wait a minute--" he hesitated.  "I had a queer sort of dream--"

"'What was it?" I asked eagerly,

"Well," he answered slowly, "I suppose it was because I'd been thinking of--Golden Eyes. Anyway,
I thought she came through the wall and leaned over me--yes, and put one of those long white
hands of hers on my head--I couldn't raise my lids--but in some queer way I could see her.
Then it got real dreamish. Why do you ask?"

Rador turned back toward us,

"Later," I answered, "Not now.  When we're alone."

But through me went a little glow of reassurance.  Whatever the maze through which we were
moving; whatever of menacing evil lurking there--the Golden Girl was clearly watching over
us; watching with whatever unknown powers she could muster.

We passed the pillared entrance; went through a long bowered corridor and stopped before a
door that seemed to be sliced from a monolith of pale jade--high, narrow, set in a wall of opal.

Rador stamped twice and the same supernally sweet, silver bell tones of--yesterday, I must
call it, although in that place of eternal day the term is meaningless--bade us enter. The
door slipped aside. The chamber was small, the opal walls screening it on three sides, the
black opacity covering it, the fourth side opening out into a delicious little walled garden--a
mass of the fragrant, luminous blooms and delicately colored fruit. Facing it was a small table
of reddish wood and from the omnipresent cushions heaped around it arose to greet us--Yolara.

Larry drew in his breath with an involuntary gasp of admiration and bowed low. My own admiration
was as frank--and the priestess was well pleased with our homage.

She was swathed in the filmy, half-revelant webs, now of palest blue. The corn-silk hair was
caught within a wide-meshed golden net in which sparkled tiny brilliants, like blended sapphires
and diamonds. Her own azure eyes sparkled as brightly as they, and I noted again in their clear
depths the half-eager approval as they rested upon O'Keefe's lithe, well-knit figure and his
keen, clean-cut face. The high-arched, slender feet rested upon soft sandals whose gauzy withes
laced the exquisitely formed leg to just below the dimpled knee.

"Some giddy wonder!" exclaimed Larry, looking at me and placing a hand over his heart. "Put
her on a New York roof and she'd empty Broadway. Take the cue from me, Doc."

He turned to Yolara, whose face was somewhat puzzled.

"I said, O lady whose shining hair is a web for hearts, that in our world your beauty would
dazzle the sight of men as would a little woman sun!" he said, in the florid imagery to which
the tongue lends itself so well.

A flush stole up through the translucent skin.  The blue eyes softened and she waved us toward
the cushions. Black-haired maids stole in, placing before us the fruits, the little loaves
and a steaming drink somewhat the colour and odor of chocolate. I was conscious of outrageous
hunger.

"What are you named, strangers?" she asked.

"This man is named Goodwin," said O'Keefe.  "As for me, call me Larry."

"Nothing like getting acquainted quick," he said to me--but kept his eyes upon Yolara as though
he were voicing another honeyed phrase. And so she took it, for: "You must teach me your tongue,"
she murmured.

"Then shall I have two words where now I have one to tell you of your loveliness," he answered.

"And also that'll take time," he spoke to me.  "Essential occupation out of which we can't
be drafted to make these fun-loving folk any Roman holiday. Get me!"

"Larree," mused Yolara.  "I like the sound.  It is sweet--" and indeed it was as she spoke it.

"And what is your land named, Larree?" she continued. "And Goodwin's?" She caught the sound
perfectly.

"My land, O lady of loveliness, is two--Ireland and America; his but one--America."

She repeated the two names--slowly, over and over.  We seized the opportunity to attack the
food; halting half guiltily as she spoke again.

"Oh, but you are hungry!" she cried.  "Eat then." She leaned her chin upon her hands and regarded
us, whole fountains of questions brimming up in her eyes.

"How is it, Larree, that you have two countries and Goodwin but one?" she asked, at last unable
to keep silent longer.

"I was born in Ireland; he in America.  But I have dwelt long in his land and my heart loves
each," he said.

She nodded, understandingly.

"Are all the men of Ireland like you, Larree?  As all the men here are like Lugur or Rador?
I like to look at you," she went on, with naive frankness. "I am tired of men like Lugur and
Rador. But they are strong," she added, swiftly. "Lugur can hold up ten in his two arms and
raise six with but one hand."

We could not understand her numerals and she raised white fingers to illustrate.

"That is little, O lady, to the men of Ireland," replied O'Keefe. "Lo, I have seen one of my
race hold up ten times ten of our--what call you that swift thing in which Rador brought us here?"

"Corial," said she.

"Hold up ten times twenty of our corials with but two fingers--and these corials of ours--"

"Coria," said she.

"And these coria of ours are each greater in weight than ten of yours. Yes, and I have seen
another with but one blow of his hand raise hell!

"And so I have," he murmured to me.  "And both at Forty-second and Fifth Avenue, N. Y.--U. S. A."

Yolara considered all this with manifest doubt.

"Hell?" she inquired at last.  "I know not the word."

"Well," answered O'Keefe.  "Say Muria then.  In many ways they are, I gather, O heart's delight,
one and the same."

Now the doubt in the blue eyes was strong indeed.  She shook her head.

"None of our men can do that!" she answered, at length. "Nor do I think you could, Larree."

"Oh, no," said Larry easily.  "I never tried to be that strong.  I fly," he added, casually.

The priestess rose to her feet, gazing at him with startled eyes.

"Fly!" she repeated incredulously.  "Like a Zitia?  A bird?"

Larry nodded--and then seeing the dawning command in her eyes, went on hastily.

"Not with my own wings, Yolara.  In a--a corial that moves through--what's the word for air,
Doc--well, through this--" He made a wide gesture up toward the nebulous haze above us. He
took a pencil and on a white cloth made a hasty sketch of an airplane. "In a--a corial like
this--" She regarded the sketch gravely, thrust a hand down into her girdle and brought forth
a keen-bladed poniard; cut Larry's markings out and placed the fragment carefully aside.

"That I can understand," she said.

"Remarkably intelligent young woman," muttered O'Keefe.  "Hope I'm not giving anything away--but
she had me."

"But what are your women like, Larree?  Are they like me?  And how many have loved you?" she
whispered.

"In all Ireland and America there is none like you, Yolara," he answered. "And take that any
way you please," he muttered in English. She took it, it was evident, as it most pleased her.

"Do you have goddesses?" she asked.

"Every woman in Ireland and America, is a goddess"; thus Larry.

"Now that I do not believe." There was both anger and mockery in her eyes. "I know women, Larree--and
if that were so there would be no peace for men."

"There isn't!" replied he.  The anger died out and she laughed, sweetly, understandingly.

"And which goddess do you worship, Larree?"

"You!" said Larry O'Keefe boldly.

"Larry!  Larry!" I whispered.  "Be careful.  It's high explosive."

But the priestess was laughing--little trills of sweet bell notes; and pleasure was in each note.

"You are indeed bold, Larree," she said, "to offer me your worship. Yet am I pleased by your
boldness. Still--Lugur is strong; and you are not of those who--what did you say--have tried.
And your wings are not here--Larree!"

Again her laughter rang out.  The Irishman flushed; it was touché for Yolara!

"Fear not for me with Lugur," he said, grimly.  "Rather fear for him!"

The laughter died; she looked at him searchingly; a little enigmatic smile about her mouth--so
sweet and so cruel.

"Well--we shall see," she murmured.  "You say you battle in your world. With what?"

"Oh, with this and with that," answered Larry, airily. "We manage--"

"Have you the Keth--I mean that with which I sent Songar into the nothingness?" she asked swiftly.

"See what she's driving at?" O'Keefe spoke to me, swiftly. "Well I do! But here's where the
O'Keefe lands.

"I said," he turned to her, "O voice of silver fire, that your spirit is high even as your
beauty--and searches out men's souls as does your loveliness their hearts. And now listen,
Yolara, for what I speak is truth"--into his eyes came the far-away gaze; into his voice the
Irish softness--"Lo, in my land of Ireland, this many of your life's length agone--see"--he
raised his ten fingers, clenched and unclenched them times twenty--"the mighty men of my race,
the Taitha-da-Dainn, could send men out into the nothingness even as do you with the Keth.
And this they did by their harpings, and by words spoken--words of power, O Yolara, that have
their power still--and by pipings and by slaying sounds.

"There was Cravetheen who played swift flames from his harp, flying flames that ate those they
were sent against. And there was Dalua, of Hy Brasil, whose pipes played away from man and
beast and all living things their shadows--and at last played them to shadows too, so that
wherever Dalua went his shadows that had been men and beast followed like a storm of little
rustling leaves; yea, and Bel the Harper, who could make women's hearts run like wax and men's
hearts flame to ashes and whose harpings could shatter strong cliffs and bow great trees to
the sod--"

His eyes were bright, dream-filled; she shrank a little from him, faint pallor under the perfect
skin.

"I say to you, Yolara, that these things were and are--in Ireland." His voice rang strong.
"And I have seen men as many as those that are in your great chamber this many times over"--he
clenched his hands once more, perhaps a dozen times--"blasted into nothingness before your
Keth could even have touched them. Yea--and rocks as mighty as those through which we came
lifted up and shattered before the lids could fall over your blue eyes. And this is truth,
Yolara--all truth! Stay--have you that little cone of the Keth with which you destroyed Songar?"

She nodded, gazing at him, fascinated, fear and puzzlement contending.

"Then use it." He took a vase of crystal from the table, placed it on the threshold that led
into the garden. "Use it on this--and I will show you."

"I will use it upon one of the ladala--" she began eagerly.

The exaltation dropped from him; there was a touch of horror in the eyes he turned to her;
her own dropped before it.

"It shall be as you say," she said hurriedly.  She drew the shining cone from her breast; levelled
it at the vase. The green ray leaped forth, spread over the crystal, but before its action
could even be begun, a flash of light shot from O'Keefe's hand, his automatic spat and the
trembling vase flew into fragments. As quickly as he had drawn it, he thrust the pistol back
into place and stood there empty handed, looking at her sternly. From the anteroom came shouting,
a rush of feet.

Yolara's face was white, her eyes strained--but her voice was unshaken as she called to the
clamouring guards:

"It is nothing--go to your places!"

But when the sound of their return had ceased she stared tensely at the Irishman--then looked
again at the shattered vase.

"It is true!" she cried, "but see, the Keth is--alive!"

I followed her pointing finger.  Each broken bit of the crystal was vibrating, shaking its
particles out into space. Broken it the bullet of Larry's had--but not released it from the
grip of the disintegrating force. The priestess's face was triumphant.

"But what matters it, O shining urn of beauty--what matters it to the vase that is broken what
happens to its fragments?" asked Larry, gravely--and pointedly.

The triumph died from her face and for a space she was silent; brooding.

"Next," whispered O'Keefe to me.  "Lots of surprises in the little box; keep your eye on the
opening and see what comes out."

We had not long to wait.  There was a sparkle of anger about Yolara, something too of injured
pride. She clapped her hands; whispered to the maid who answered her summons, and then sat
back regarding us, maliciously.

"You have answered me as to your strength--but you have not proved it; but the Keth you have
answered. Now answer this!" she said.

She pointed out into the garden.  I saw a flowering branch bend and snap as though a hand had
broken it--but no hand was there! Saw then another and another bend and break, a little tree
sway and fall--and closer and closer to us came the trail of snapping boughs while down into
the garden poured the silvery light revealing--nothing! Now a great ewer beside a pillar rose
swiftly in air and hurled itself crashing at my feet. Cushions close to us swirled about as
though in the vortex of a whirlwind.

And unseen hands held my arms in a mighty clutch fast to my sides, another gripped my throat
and I felt a needle-sharp poniard point pierce my shirt, touch the skin just over my heart!

"Larry!" I cried, despairingly.  I twisted my head; saw that he too was caught in this grip
of the invisible. But his face was calm, even amused.

"Keep cool, Doc!" he said.  "Remember--she wants to learn the language!"

Now from Yolara burst chime upon chime of mocking laughter.  She gave a command--the hands
loosened, the poniard withdrew from my heart; suddenly as I had been caught I was free--and
unpleasantly weak and shaky.

"Have you that in Ireland, Larree!" cried the priestess--and once more trembled with laughter.

"A good play, Yolara." His voice was as calm as his face. "But they did that in Ireland even
before Dalua piped away his first man's shadow. And in Goodwin's land they make ships--coria
that go on water--so you can pass by them and see only sea and sky; and those water coria are
each of them many times greater than this whole palace of yours."

But the priestess laughed on.

"It did get me a little," whispered Larry.  "That wasn't quite up to my mark. But God! If we
could find that trick out and take it back with us!"

"Not so, Larree!" Yolara gasped, through her laughter. "Not so! Goodwin's cry betrayed you!"

Her good humour had entirely returned; she was like a mischievous child pleased over some successful
trick; and like a child she cried--"I'll show you!"--signalled again; whispered to the maid
who, quickly returning, laid before her a long metal case. Yolara took from her girdle something
that looked like a small pencil, pressed it and shot a thin stream of light for all the world
like an electric flash, upon its hasp. The lid flew open. Out of it she drew three flat, oval
crystals, faint rose in hue. She handed one to O'Keefe and one to me.

"Look!" she commanded, placing the third before her own eyes.  I peered through the stone and
instantly there leaped into sight, out of thin air--six grinning dwarfs! Each was covered from
top of head to soles of feet in a web so tenuous that through it their bodies were plain. The
gauzy stuff seemed to vibrate--its strands to run together like quick-silver. I snatched the
crystal from my eyes and--the chamber was empty! Put it back--and there were the grinning six!

Yolara gave another sign and they disappeared, even from the crystals.

"It is what they wear, Larree," explained Yolara, graciously.  "It is something that came to
us from--the Ancient Ones. But we have so few"--she sighed.

"Such treasures must be two-edged swords, Yolara," commented O'Keefe. "For how know you that
one within them creeps not to you with hand eager to strike?"

"There is no danger," she said indifferently.  "I am the keeper of them."

She mused for a space, then abruptly:

"And now no more.  You two are to appear before the Council at a certain time--but fear nothing.
You, Goodwin, go with Rador about our city and increase your wisdom. But you, Larree, await
me here in my garden--" she smiled at him, provocatively--maliciously, too. "For shall not
one who has resisted a world of goddesses be given all chance to worship when at last he finds
his own?"

She laughed--whole-heartedly and was gone.  And at that moment I liked Yolara better than ever
I had before and--alas--better than ever I was to in the future.

I noted Rador standing outside the open jade door and started to go, but O'Keefe caught me
by the arm.

"Wait a minute," he urged.  "About Golden Eyes--you were going to tell me something--it's been
on my mind all through that little sparring match."

I told him of the vision that had passed through my closing lids.  He listened gravely and
then laughed.

"Hell of a lot of privacy in this place!" he grinned.  "Ladies who can walk through walls and
others with regular invisible cloaks to let 'em flit wherever they please. Oh, well, don't
let it get on your nerves, Doc. Remember--everything's natural! That robe stuff is just camouflage
of course. But Lord, if we could only get a piece of it!"

"The material simply admits all light-vibrations, or perhaps curves them, just as the opacities
cut them off," I answered. "A man under the X-ray is partly invisible; this makes him wholly
so. He doesn't register, as the people of the motion-picture profession say."

"Camouflage," repeated Larry.  "And as for the Shining One--Say!" he snorted. "I'd like to
set the O'Keefe banshee up against it. I'll bet that old resourceful Irish body would give
it the first three bites and a strangle hold and wallop it before it knew it had 'em. Oh! Wow!
Boy Howdy!"

I heard him still chuckling gleefully over this vision as I passed along the opal wall with
the green dwarf.

A shell was awaiting us.  I paused before entering it to examine the polished surface of runway
and great road. It was obsidian--volcanic glass of pale emerald, unflawed, translucent, with
no sign of block or juncture. I examined the shell.

"What makes it go?" I asked Rador.  At a word from him the driver touched a concealed spring
and an aperture appeared beneath the control-lever, of which I have spoken in a preceding chapter.
Within was a small cube of black crystal, through whose sides I saw, dimly, a rapidly revolving,
glowing ball, not more than two inches in diameter. Beneath the cube was a curiously shaped,
slender cylinder winding down into the lower body of the Nautilus whorl.

"Watch!" said Rador.  He motioned me into the vehicle and took a place beside me. The driver
touched the lever; a stream of coruscations flew from the ball down into the cylinder. The
shell started smoothly, and as the tiny torrent of shining particles increased it gathered speed.

"The corial does not touch the road," explained Rador. "It is lifted so far"--he held his forefinger
and thumb less than a sixteenth of an inch apart--"above it."

And perhaps here is the best place to explain the activation of the shells or coria. The force
utilized was atomic energy. Passing from the whirling ball the ions darted through the cylinder
to two bands of a peculiar metal affixed to the base of the vehicles somewhat like skids of
a sled. Impinging upon these they produced a partial negation of gravity, lifting the shell
slightly, and at the same time creating a powerful repulsive force or thrust that could be
directed backward, forward, or sidewise at the will of the driver. The creation of this energy
and the mechanism of its utilization were, briefly, as follows:

[Dr. Goodwin's lucid and exceedingly comprehensive description of this extraordinary mechanism
has been deleted by the Executive Council of the International Association of Science as too
dangerously suggestive to scientists of the Central European Powers with which we were so recently
at war. It is allowable, however, to state that his observations are in the possession of experts
in this country, who are, unfortunately, hampered in their research not only by the scarcity
of the radioactive elements that we know, but also by the lack of the element or elements unknown
to us that entered into the formation of the fiery ball within the cube of black crystal. Nevertheless,
as the principle is so clear, it is believed that these difficulties will ultimately be overcome.--J.
B. K., President, I. A. of S.]

The wide, glistening road was gay with the coria.  They darted in and out of the gardens; within
them the fair-haired, extraordinarily beautiful women on their cushions were like princesses
of Elfland, caught in gorgeous fairy webs, resting within the hearts of flowers. In some shells
were flaxen-haired dwarfish men of Lugur's type; sometimes black-polled brother officers of
Rador; often raven-tressed girls, plainly hand-maidens of the women; and now and then beauties
of the lower folk went by with one of the blond dwarfs.

We swept around the turn that made of the jewel-like roadway an enormous horseshoe and, speedily,
upon our right the cliffs through which we had come in our journey from the Moon Pool began
to march forward beneath their mantles of moss. They formed a gigantic abutment, a titanic
salient. It had been from the very front of this salient's invading angle that we had emerged;
on each side of it the precipices, faintly glowing, drew back and vanished into distance.

The slender, graceful bridges under which we skimmed ended at openings in the upflung, far
walls of verdure. Each had its little garrison of soldiers. Through some of the openings a
rivulet of the green obsidian river passed. These were roadways to the farther country, to
the land of the ladala, Rador told me; adding that none of the lesser folk could cross into
the pavilioned city unless summoned or with pass.

We turned the bend of the road and flew down that farther emerald ribbon we had seen from the
great oval. Before us rose the shining cliffs and the lake. A half-mile, perhaps, from these
the last of the bridges flung itself. It was more massive and about it hovered a spirit of
ancientness lacking in the other spans; also its garrison was larger and at its base the tangent
way was guarded by two massive structures, somewhat like blockhouses, between which it ran.
Something about it aroused in me an intense curiosity.

"Where does that road lead, Rador?" I asked.

"To the one place above all of which I may not tell you, Goodwin," he answered. And again I
wondered.

We skimmed slowly out upon the great pier.  Far to the left was the prismatic, rainbow curtain
between the Cyclopean pillars. On the white waters graceful shells--lacustrian replicas of
the Elf chariots--swam, but none was near that distant web of wonder.

"Rador--what is that?" I asked.

"It is the Veil of the Shining One!" he answered slowly.

Was the Shining One that which we named the Dweller?

"What is the Shining One?" I cried, eagerly.  Again he was silent. Nor did he speak until we
had turned on our homeward way.

And lively as my interest, my scientific curiosity, were--I was conscious suddenly of acute
depression. Beautiful, wondrously beautiful this place was--and yet in its wonder dwelt a keen
edge of menace, of unease--of inexplicable, inhuman woe; as though in a secret garden of God
a soul should sense upon it the gaze of some lurking spirit of evil which some way, somehow,
had crept into the sanctuary and only bided its time to spring.

CHAPTER XVII

The Leprechaun

The shell carried us straight back to the house of Yolara. Larry was awaiting me. We stood
again before the tenebrous wall where first we had faced the priestess and the Voice. And as
we stood, again the portal appeared with all its disconcerting, magical abruptness.

But now the scene was changed.  Around the jet table were grouped a number of figures--Lugur,
Yolara beside him; seven others--all of them fair-haired and all men save one who sat at the
left of the priestess--an old, old woman, how old I could not tell, her face bearing traces
of beauty that must once have been as great as Yolara's own, but now ravaged, in some way awesome;
through its ruins the fearful, malicious gaiety shining out like a spirit of joy held within
a corpse!

Began then our examination, for such it was.  And as it progressed I was more and more struck
by the change in the O'Keefe. All flippancy was gone, rarely did his sense of humour reveal
itself in any of his answers. He was like a cautious swordsman, fencing, guarding, studying
his opponent; or rather, like a chess-player who keeps sensing some far-reaching purpose in
the game: alert, contained, watchful. Always he stressed the power of our surface races, their
multitudes, their solidarity.

Their questions were myriad.  What were our occupations? Our system of government? How great
were the waters? The land? Intensely interested were they in the World War, querying minutely
into its causes, its effects. In our weapons their interest was avid. And they were exceedingly
minute in their examination of us as to the ruins which had excited our curiosity; their position
and surroundings--and if others than ourselves might be expected to find and pass through their
entrance!

At this I shot a glance at Lugur.  He did not seem unduly interested. I wondered if the Russian
had told him as yet of the girl of the rosy wall of the Moon Pool Chamber and the real reasons
for our search. Then I answered as briefly as possible--omitting all reference to these things.
The red dwarf watched me with unmistakable amusement--and I knew Marakinoff had told him. But
clearly Lugur had kept his information even from Yolara; and as clearly she had spoken to none
of that episode when O'Keefe's automatic had shattered the Keth-smitten vase. Again I felt
that sense of deep bewilderment--of helpless search for clue to all the tangle.

For two hours we were questioned and then the priestess called Rador and let us go.

Larry was sombre as we returned.  He walked about the room uneasily.

"Hell's brewing here all right," he said at last, stopping before me. "I can't make out just
the particular brand--that's all that bothers me. We're going to have a stiff fight, that's
sure. What I want to do quick is to find the Golden Girl, Doc. Haven't seen her on the wall
lately, have you?" he queried, hopefully fantastic.

"Laugh if you want to," he went on.  "But she's our best bet.  It's going to be a race between
her and the O'Keefe banshee--but I put my money on her. I had a queer experience while I was
in that garden, after you'd left." His voice grew solemn. "Did you ever see a leprechaun, Doc?"
I shook my head again, as solemnly. "He's a little man in green," said Larry. "Oh, about as
high as your knee. I saw one once--in Carntogher Woods. And as I sat there, half asleep, in
Yolara's garden, the living spit of him stepped out from one of those bushes, twirling a little
shillalah.

"'It's a tight box ye're gettin' in, Larry avick,' said he, 'but don't ye be downhearted, lad.'

"'I'm carrying on,' said I, 'but you're a long way from Ireland,' I said, or thought I did.

"'Ye've a lot o' friends there,' he answered.  'An' where the heart rests the feet are swift
to follow. Not that I'm sayin' I'd like to live here, Larry,' said he.

"'I know where my heart is now,' I told him.  'It rests on a girl with golden eyes and the
hair and swan-white breast of Eilidh the Fair--but me feet don't seem to get me to her,' I said."

The brogue thickened.

"An' the little man in green nodded his head an' whirled his shillalah.

"'It's what I came to tell ye,' says he.  'Don't ye fall for the Bhean-Nimher, the serpent
woman wit' the blue eyes; she's a daughter of Ivor, lad--an' don't ye do nothin' to make the
brown-haired coleen ashamed o' ye, Larry O'Keefe. I knew yer great, great grandfather an' his
before him, aroon,' says he, 'an' wan o' the O'Keefe failin's is to think their hearts big
enough to hold all the wimmen o' the world. A heart's built to hold only wan permanently, Larry,'
he says, 'an' I'm warnin' ye a nice girl don't like to move into a place all cluttered up wid
another's washin' an' mendin' an' cookin' an' other things pertainin' to general wife work.
Not that I think the blue-eyed wan is keen for mendin' an' cookin'!' says he.

"'You don't have to be comin' all this way to tell me that,' I answer.

"'Well, I'm just a tellin' you,' he says.  'Ye've got some rough knocks comin', Larry. In fact,
ye're in for a devil of a time. But, remember that ye're the O'Keefe,' says he. 'An' while
the bhoys are all wid ye, avick, ye've got to be on the job yourself.'

"'I hope,' I tell him, 'that the O'Keefe banshee can find her way here in time--that is, if
it's necessary, which I hope it won't be.'

"'Don't ye worry about that,' says he.  'Not that she's keen on leavin' the ould sod, Larry.
The good ould soul's in quite a state o' mind about ye, aroon. I don't mind tellin' ye, lad,
that she's mobilizing all the clan an' if she has to come for ye, avick, they'll be wid her
an' they'll sweep this joint clean before ye go. What they'll do to it'll make the Big Wind
look like a summer breeze on Lough Lene! An' that's about all, Larry. We thought a voice from
the Green Isle would cheer ye. Don't fergit that ye're the O'Keefe an' I say it again--all
the bhoys are wid ye. But we want t' kape bein' proud o' ye, lad!'

"An' I looked again and there was only a bush waving."

There wasn't a smile in my heart--or if there was it was a very tender one.

"I'm going to bed," he said abruptly.  "Keep an eye on the wall, Doc!"

Between the seven sleeps that followed, Larry and I saw but little of each other. Yolara sought
him more and more. Thrice we were called before the Council; once we were at a great feast,
whose splendours and surprises I can never forget. Largely I was in the company of Rador. Together
we two passed the green barriers into the dwelling-place of the ladala.

They seemed provided with everything needful for life. But everywhere was an oppressiveness,
a gathering together of hate, that was spiritual rather than material--as tangible as the latter
and far, far more menacing!

"They do not like to dance with the Shining One," was Rador's constant and only reply to my
efforts to find the cause.

Once I had concrete evidence of the mood.  Glancing behind me, I saw a white, vengeful face
peer from behind a tree-trunk, a hand lift, a shining dart speed from it straight toward Rador's
back. Instinctively I thrust him aside. He turned upon me angrily. I pointed to where the little
missile lay, still quivering, on the ground. He gripped my hand.

"That, some day I will repay!" he said.  I looked again at the thing. At its end was a tiny
cone covered with a glistening, gelatinous substance.

Rador pulled from a tree beside us a fruit somewhat like an apple.

"Look!" he said.  He dropped it upon the dart--and at once, before my eyes, in less than ten
seconds, the fruit had rotted away!

"That's what would have happened to Rador but for you, friend!" he said.

Come now between this and the prelude to the latter half of the drama whose history this narrative
is--only scattering and necessarily fragmentary observations.

First--the nature of the ebon opacities, blocking out the spaces between the pavilion-pillars
or covering their tops like roofs, These were magnetic fields, light absorbers, negativing
the vibrations of radiance; literally screens of electric force which formed as impervious
a barrier to light as would have screens of steel.

They instantaneously made night appear in a place where no night was. But they interposed no
obstacle to air or to sound. They were extremely simple in their inception--no more miraculous
than is glass, which, inversely, admits the vibrations of light, but shuts out those coarser
ones we call air--and, partly, those others which produce upon our auditory nerves the effects
we call sound.

Briefly their mechanism was this:

[For the same reason that Dr. Goodwin's exposition of the mechanism of the atomic engines was
deleted, his description of the light-destroying screens has been deleted by the Executive
Council.--J. B. F., President, I. A. of S.]

There were two favoured classes of the ladala--the soldiers and the dream-makers. The dream-makers
were the most astonishing social phenomena, I think, of all. Denied by their circumscribed
environment the wider experiences of us of the outer world, the Murians had perfected an amazing
system of escape through the imagination.

They were, too, intensely musical.  Their favourite instruments were double flutes; immensely
complex pipe-organs; harps, great and small. They had another remarkable instrument made up
of a double octave of small drums which gave forth percussions remarkably disturbing to the
emotional centres.

It was this love of music that gave rise to one of the few truly humorous incidents of our
caverned life. Larry came to me--it was just after our fourth sleep, I remember.

"Come on to a concert," he said.

We skimmed off to one of the bridge garrisons.  Rador called the two-score guards to attention;
and then, to my utter stupefaction, the whole company, O'Keefe leading them, roared out the
anthem, "God Save the King." They sang--in a closer approach to the English than might have
been expected scores of miles below England's level. "Send him victorious! Happy and glorious!"
they bellowed.

He quivered with suppressed mirth at my paralysis of surprise.

"Taught 'em that for Marakinoff's benefit!" he gasped. "Wait till that Red hears it. He'll blow up.

"Just wait until you hear Yolara lisp a pretty little thing I taught her," said Larry as we
set back for what we now called home. There was an impish twinkle in his eyes.

And I did hear.  For it was not many minutes later that the priestess condescended to command
me to come to her with O'Keefe.

"Show Goodwin how much you have learned of our speech, O lady of the lips of honeyed flame!"
murmured Larry.

She hesitated; smiled at him, and then from that perfect mouth, out of the exquisite throat,
in the voice that was like the chiming of little silver bells, she trilled a melody familiar
to me indeed:

    "She's only a bird in a gilded cage,
      A bee-yu-tiful sight to see--"

And so on to the bitter end.

"She thinks it's a love-song," said Larry when we had left. "It's only part of a repertoire
I'm teaching her. Honestly, Doc, it's the only way I can keep my mind clear when I'm with her,"
he went on earnestly. "She's a devil-ess from hell--but a wonder. Whenever I find myself going
I get her to sing that, or Take Back Your Gold! or some other ancient lay, and I'm back again--pronto--with
the right perspective! POP goes all the mystery! 'Hell!' I say, 'she's only a woman!'"

CHAPTER XVIII

The Amphitheatre of Jet

For hours the black-haired folk had been streaming across the bridges, flowing along the promenade
by scores and by hundreds, drifting down toward the gigantic seven-terraced temple whose interior
I had never as yet seen, and from whose towering exterior, indeed, I had always been kept far
enough away--unobtrusively, but none the less decisively--to prevent any real observation.
The structure, I had estimated, nevertheless, could not reach less than a thousand feet above
its silvery base, and the diameter of its circular foundation was about the same.

I wondered what was bringing the ladala into Lora, and where they were vanishing. All of them
were flower-crowned with the luminous, lovely blooms--old and young, slender, mocking-eyed
girls, dwarfed youths, mothers with their babes, gnomed oldsters--on they poured, silent for
the most part and sullen--a sullenness that held acid bitterness even as their subtle, half-sinister,
half-gay malice seemed tempered into little keen-edged flames, oddly, menacingly defiant.

There were many of the green-clad soldiers along the way, and the garrison of the only bridge
span I could see had certainly been doubled.

Wondering still, I turned from my point of observation and made my way back to our pavilion,
hoping that Larry, who had been with Yolara for the past two hours, had returned. Hardly had
I reached it before Rador came hurrying up, in his manner a curious exultance mingled with
what in anyone else I would have called a decided nervousness.

"Come!" he commanded before I could speak.  "The Council has made decision--and Larree is awaiting
you."

"What has been decided?" I panted as we sped along the mosaic path that led to the house of
Yolara. "And why is Larry awaiting me?"

And at his answer I felt my heart pause in its beat and through me race a wave of mingled panic
and eagerness.

"The Shining One dances!" had answered the green dwarf. "And you are to worship!"

What was this dancing of the Shining One, of which so often he had spoken?

Whatever my forebodings, Larry evidently had none.

"Great stuff!" he cried, when we had met in the great antechamber now empty of the dwarfs.
"Hope it will be worth seeing--have to be something damned good, though, to catch me, after
what I've seen of shows at the front," he added.

And remembering, with a little shock of apprehension, that he had no knowledge of the Dweller
beyond my poor description of it--for there are no words actually to describe what that miracle
of interwoven glory and horror was--I wondered what Larry O'Keefe would say and do when he
did behold it!

Rador began to show impatience.

"Come!" he urged.  "There is much to be done--and the time grows short!"

He led us to a tiny fountain room in whose miniature pool the white waters were concentrated,
pearl-like and opalescent in their circling rim.

"Bathe!" he commanded; and set the example by stripping himself and plunging within. Only a
minute or two did the green dwarf allow us, and he checked us as we were about to don our clothing.

Then, to my intense embarrassment, without warning, two of the black-haired girls entered,
bearing robes of a peculiar dull-blue hue. At our manifest discomfort Rador's laughter roared
out. He took the garments from the pair, motioned them to leave us, and, still laughing, threw
one around me. Its texture was soft, but decidedly metallic--like some blue metal spun to the
fineness of a spider's thread. The garment buckled tightly at the throat, was girdled at the
waist, and, below this cincture, fell to the floor, its folds being held together by a half-dozen
looped cords; from the shoulders a hood resembling a monk's cowl.

Rador cast this over my head; it completely covered my face, but was of so transparent a texture
that I could see, though somewhat mistily, through it. Finally he handed us both a pair of
long gloves of the same material and high stockings, the feet of which were gloved--five-toed.

And again his laughter rang out at our manifest surprise.

"The priestess of the Shining One does not altogether trust the Shining One's Voice," he said
at last. "And these are to guard against any sudden--errors. And fear not, Goodwin," he went
on kindly. "Not for the Shining One itself would Yolara see harm come to Larree here--nor,
because of him, to you. But I would not stake much on the great white one. And for him I am
sorry, for him I do like well."

"Is he to be with us?" asked Larry eagerly.

"He is to be where we go," replied the dwarf soberly.

Grimly Larry reached down and drew from his uniform his automatic.  He popped a fresh clip
into the pocket fold of his girdle. The pistol he slung high up beneath his arm-pit.

The green dwarf looked at the weapon curiously.  O'Keefe tapped it.

"This," said Larry, "slays quicker than the Keth--I take it so no harm shall come to the blue-eyed
one whose name is Olaf. If I should raise it--be you not in its way, Rador!" he added significantly.

The dwarf nodded again, his eyes sparkling.  He thrust a hand out to both of us.

"A change comes," he said.  "What it is I know not, nor how it will fall. But this remember--Rador
is more friend to you than you yet can know. And now let us go!" he ended abruptly.

He led us, not through the entrance, but into a sloping passage ending in a blind wall; touched
a symbol graven there, and it opened, precisely as had the rosy barrier of the Moon Pool Chamber.
And, just as there, but far smaller, was a passage end, a low curved wall facing a shaft not
black as had been that abode of living darkness, but faintly luminescent. Rador leaned over
the wall. The mechanism clicked and started; the door swung shut; the sides of the car slipped
into place, and we swept swiftly down the passage; overhead the wind whistled. In a few moments
the moving platform began to slow down. It stopped in a closed chamber no larger than itself.

Rador drew his poniard and struck twice upon the wall with its hilt. Immediately a panel moved
away, revealing a space filled with faint, misty blue radiance. And at each side of the open
portal stood four of the dwarfish men, grey-headed, old, clad in flowing garments of white,
each pointing toward us a short silver rod.

Rador drew from his girdle a ring and held it out to the first dwarf. He examined it, handed
it to the one beside him, and not until each had inspected the ring did they lower their curious
weapons; containers of that terrific energy they called the Keth, I thought; and later was
to know that I had been right.

We stepped out; the doors closed behind us.  The place was weird enough. Its pave was a greenish-blue
stone resembling lapis lazuli. On each side were high pedestals holding carved figures of the
same material. There were perhaps a score of these, but in the mistiness I could not make out
their outlines. A droning, rushing roar beat upon our ears; filled the whole cavern.

"I smell the sea," said Larry suddenly.

The roaring became deep-toned, clamorous, and close in front of us a rift opened. Twenty feet
in width, it cut the cavern floor and vanished into the blue mist on each side. The cleft was
spanned by one solid slab of rock not more than two yards wide. It had neither railing nor
other protection.

The four leading priests marched out upon it one by one, and we followed. In the middle of
the span they knelt. Ten feet beneath us was a torrent of blue sea-water racing with prodigious
speed between polished walls. It gave the impression of vast depth. It roared as it sped by,
and far to the right was a low arch through which it disappeared. It was so swift that its
surface shone like polished blue steel, and from it came the blessed, our worldly, familiar
ocean breath that strengthened my soul amazingly and made me realize how earth-sick I was.

Whence came the stream, I marvelled, forgetting for the moment, as we passed on again, all
else. Were we closer to the surface of earth than I had thought, or was this some mighty flood
falling through an opening in sea floor, Heaven alone knew how many miles above us, losing
itself in deeper abysses beyond these? How near and how far this was from the truth I was to
learn--and never did truth come to man in more dreadful guise!

The roaring fell away, the blue haze lessened.  In front of us stretched a wide flight of steps,
huge as those which had led us into the courtyard of Nan-Tauach through the ruined sea-gate.
We scaled it; it narrowed; from above light poured through a still narrower opening. Side by
side Larry and I passed out of it.

We had emerged upon an enormous platform of what seemed to be glistening ivory. It stretched
before us for a hundred yards or more and then shelved gently into the white waters. Opposite--not
a mile away--was that prodigious web of woven rainbows Rador had called the Veil of the Shining
One. There it shone in all its unearthly grandeur, on each side of the Cyclopean pillars, as
though a mountain should stretch up arms raising between them a fairy banner of auroral glories.
Beneath it was the curved, scimitar sweep of the pier with its clustered, gleaming temples.

Before that brief, fascinated glance was done, there dropped upon my soul a sensation as of
brooding weight intolerable; a spiritual oppression as though some vastness was falling, pressing,
stifling me, I turned--and Larry caught me as I reeled.

"Steady!  Steady, old man!" he whispered.

At first all that my staggering consciousness could realize was an immensity, an immeasurable
uprearing that brought with it the same throat-gripping vertigo as comes from gazing downward
from some great height--then a blur of white faces--intolerable shinings of hundreds upon thousands
of eyes. Huge, incredibly huge, a colossal amphitheatre of jet, a stupendous semi-circle, held
within its mighty arc the ivory platform on which I stood.

It reared itself almost perpendicularly hundreds of feet up into the sparkling heavens, and
thrust down on each side its ebon bulwarks--like monstrous paws. Now, the giddiness from its
sheer greatness passing, I saw that it was indeed an amphitheatre sloping slightly backward
tier after tier, and that the white blur of faces against its blackness, the gleaming of countless
eyes were those of myriads of the people who sat silent, flower-garlanded, their gaze focused
upon the rainbow curtain and sweeping over me like a torrent--tangible, appalling!

Five hundred feet beyond, the smooth, high retaining wall of the amphitheatre raised itself--above
it the first terrace of the seats, and above this, dividing the tiers for another half a thousand
feet upward, set within them like a panel, was a dead-black surface in which shone faintly
with a bluish radiance a gigantic disk; above it and around it a cluster of innumerable smaller
ones.

On each side of me, bordering the platform, were scores of small pillared alcoves, a low wall
stretching across their fronts; delicate, fretted grills shielding them, save where in each
lattice an opening stared--it came to me that they were like those stalls in ancient Gothic
cathedrals wherein for centuries had kneeled paladins and people of my own race on earth's
fair face. And within these alcoves were gathered, score upon score, the elfin beauties, the
dwarfish men of the fair-haired folk. At my right, a few feet from the opening through which
we had come, a passageway led back between the fretted stalls. Half-way between us and the
massive base of the amphitheatre a dais rose. Up the platform to it a wide ramp ascended; and
on ramp and dais and along the centre of the gleaming platform down to where it kissed the
white waters, a broad ribbon of the radiant flowers lay like a fairy carpet.

On one side of this dais, meshed in a silken web that hid no line or curve of her sweet body,
white flesh gleaming through its folds, stood Yolara; and opposite her, crowned with a circlet
of flashing blue stones, his mighty body stark bare, was Lugur!

O'Keefe drew a long breath; Rador touched my arm and, still dazed, I let myself be drawn into
the aisle and through a corridor that ran behind the alcoves. At the back of one of these the
green dwarf paused, opened a door, and motioned us within.

Entering, I found that we were exactly opposite where the ramp ran up to the dais--and that
Yolara was not more than fifty feet away. She glanced at O'Keefe and smiled. Her eyes were
ablaze with little dancing points of light; her body seemed to palpitate, the rounded delicate
muscles beneath the translucent skin to run with joyful little eager waves!

Larry whistled softly.

"There's Marakinoff!" he said.

I looked where he pointed.  Opposite us sat the Russian, clothed as we were, leaning forward,
his eyes eager behind his glasses; but if he saw us he gave no sign.

"And there's Olaf!" said O'Keefe.

Beneath the carved stall in which sat the Russian was an aperture and within it was Huldricksson.
Unprotected by pillars or by grills, opening clear upon the platform, near him stretched the
trail of flowers up to the great dais which Lugur and Yolara the priestess guarded. He sat
alone, and my heart went out to him.

O'Keefe's face softened.

"Bring him here," he said to Rador.

The green dwarf was looking at the Norseman, too, a shade of pity upon his mocking face. He
shook his head.

"Wait!" he said.  "You can do nothing now--and it may be there will be no need to do anything,"
he added; but I could feel that there was little of conviction in his words.

CHAPTER XIX

The Madness of Olaf

Yolara threw her white arms high.  From the mountainous tiers came a mighty sigh; a rippling
ran through them. And upon the moment, before Yolara's arms fell, there issued, apparently
from the air around us, a peal of sound that might have been the shouting of some playful god
hurling great suns through the net of stars. It was like the deepest notes of all the organs
in the world combined in one; summoning, majestic, cosmic!

It held within it the thunder of the spheres rolling through the infinite, the birth-song of
suns made manifest in the womb of space; echoes of creation's supernal chord! It shook the
body like a pulse from the heart of the universe--pulsed--and died away.

On its death came a blaring as of all the trumpets of conquering hosts since the first Pharaoh
led his swarms--triumphal, compelling! Alexander's clamouring hosts, brazen-throated wolf-horns
of Caesar's legions, blare of trumpets of Genghis Khan and his golden horde, clangor of the
locust levies of Tamerlane, bugles of Napoleon's armies--war-shout of all earth's conquerors!
And it died!

Fast upon it, a throbbing, muffled tumult of harp sounds, mellownesses of myriads of wood horns,
the subdued sweet shrilling of multitudes of flutes, Pandean pipings--inviting, carrying with
them the calling of waterfalls in the hidden places, rushing brooks and murmuring forest winds--calling,
calling, languorous, lulling, dripping into the brain like the very honeyed essence of sound.

And after them a silence in which the memory of the music seemed to beat, to beat ever more
faintly, through every quivering nerve.

From me all fear, all apprehension, had fled.  In their place was nothing but joyous anticipation,
a supernal freedom from even the shadow of the shadow of care or sorrow; not now did anything
matter--Olaf or his haunted, hate-filled eyes; Throckmartin or his fate--nothing of pain, nothing
of agony, nothing of striving nor endeavour nor despair in that wide outer world that had turned
suddenly to a troubled dream.

Once more the first great note pealed out!  Once more it died and from the clustered spheres
a kaleidoscopic blaze shot as though drawn from the majestic sound itself. The many-coloured
rays darted across the white waters and sought the face of the irised Veil. As they touched,
it sparkled, flamed, wavered, and shook with fountains of prismatic colour.

The light increased--and in its intensity the silver air darkened. Faded into shadow that white
mosaic of flower-crowned faces set in the amphitheatre of jet, and vast shadows dropped upon
the high-flung tiers and shrouded them. But on the skirts of the rays the fretted stalls in
which we sat with the fair-haired ones blazed out, iridescent, like jewels.

I was sensible of an acceleration of every pulse; a wild stimulation of every nerve. I felt
myself being lifted above the world--close to the threshold of the high gods--soon their essence
and their power would stream out into me! I glanced at Larry. His eyes were--wild--with life!

I looked at Olaf--and in his face was none of this--only hate, and hate, and hate.

The peacock waves streamed out over the waters, cleaving the seeming darkness, a rainbow path
of glory. And the Veil flashed as though all the rainbows that had ever shone were burning
within it. Again the mighty sound pealed.

Into the centre of the Veil the light drew itself, grew into an intolerable brightness--and
with a storm of tinklings, a tempest of crystalline notes, a tumult of tiny chimings, through
it sped--the Shining One!

Straight down that radiant path, its high-flung plumes of feathery flame shimmering, its coruscating
spirals whirling, its seven globes of seven colours shining above its glowing core, it raced
toward us. The hurricane of bells of diamond glass were jubilant, joyous. I felt O'Keefe grip
my arm; Yolara threw her white arms out in a welcoming gesture; I heard from the tier a sigh
of rapture--and in it a poignant, wailing under-tone of agony!

Over the waters, down the light stream, to the end of the ivory pier, flew the Shining One.
Through its crystal pizzicati drifted inarticulate murmurings--deadly sweet, stilling the heart
and setting it leaping madly.

For a moment it paused, poised itself, and then came whirling down the flower path to its priestess,
slowly, ever more slowly. It hovered for a moment between the woman and the dwarf, as though
contemplating them; turned to her with its storm of tinklings softened, its murmurings infinitely
caressing. Bent toward it, Yolara seemed to gather within herself pulsing waves of power; she
was terrifying; gloriously, maddeningly evil; and as gloriously, maddeningly heavenly! Aphrodite
and the Virgin! Tanith of the Carthaginians and St. Bride of the Isles! A queen of hell and
a princess of heaven--in one!

Only for a moment did that which we had called the Dweller and which these named the Shining
One, pause. It swept up the ramp to the dais, rested there, slowly turning, plumes and spirals
lacing and unlacing, throbbing, pulsing. Now its nucleus grew plainer, stronger--human in a
fashion, and all inhuman; neither man nor woman; neither god nor devil; subtly partaking of
all. Nor could I doubt that whatever it was, within that shining nucleus was something sentient;
something that had will and energy, and in some awful, supernormal fashion--intelligence!

Another trumpeting--a sound of stones opening--a long, low wail of utter anguish--something
moved shadowy in the river of light, and slowly at first, then ever more rapidly, shapes swam
through it. There were half a score of them--girls and youths, women and men. The Shining One
poised itself, regarded them. They drew closer, and in the eyes of each and in their faces
was the bud of that awful intermingling of emotions, of joy and sorrow, ecstasy and terror,
that I had seen in full blossom on Throckmartin's.

The Thing began again its murmurings--now infinitely caressing, coaxing--like the song of a
siren from some witched star! And the bell-sounds rang out--compellingly, calling--calling--calling--

I saw Olaf lean far out of his place; saw, half-consciously, at Lugur's signal, three of the
dwarfs creep in and take places, unnoticed, behind him.

Now the first of the figures rushed upon the dais--and paused.  It was the girl who had been
brought before Yolara when the gnome named Songar was driven into the nothingness! With all
the quickness of light a spiral of the Shining One stretched out and encircled her.

At its touch there was an infinitely dreadful shrinking and, it seemed, a simultaneous hurling
of herself into its radiance. As it wrapped its swirls around her, permeated her--the crystal
chorus burst forth--tumultuously; through and through her the radiance pulsed. Began then that
infinitely dreadful, but infinitely glorious, rhythm they called the dance of the Shining One.
And as the girl swirled within its sparkling mists another and another flew into its embrace,
until, at last, the dais was an incredible vision; a mad star's Witches' Sabbath; an altar
of white faces and bodies gleaming through living flame; transfused with rapture insupportable
and horror that was hellish--and ever, radiant plumes and spirals expanding, the core of the
Shining One waxed--growing greater--as it consumed, as it drew into and through itself the
life-force of these lost ones!

So they spun, interlaced--and there began to pulse from them life, vitality, as though the
very essence of nature was filling us. Dimly I recognized that what I was beholding was vampirism
inconceivable! The banked tiers chanted. The mighty sounds pealed forth!

It was a Saturnalia of demigods!

Then, whirling, bell-notes storming, the Shining One withdrew slowly from the dais down the
ramp, still embracing, still interwoven with those who had thrown themselves into its spirals.
They drifted with it as though half-carried in dreadful dance; white faces sealed--forever--into
that semblance of those who held within linked God and devil--I covered my eyes!

I heard a gasp from O'Keefe; opened my eyes and sought his; saw the wildness vanish from them
as he strained forward. Olaf had leaned far out, and as he did so the dwarfs beside him caught
him, and whether by design or through his own swift, involuntary movement, thrust him half
into the Dweller's path. The Dweller paused in its gyrations--seemed to watch him. The Norseman's
face was crimson, his eyes blazing. He threw himself back and, with one defiant shout, gripped
one of the dwarfs about the middle and sent him hurtling through the air, straight at the radiant
Thing! A whirling mass of legs and arms, the dwarf flew--then in midflight stopped as though
some gigantic invisible hand had caught him, and--was dashed down upon the platform not a yard
from the Shining One!

Like a broken spider he moved--feebly--once, twice. From the Dweller shot a shimmering tentacle--touched
him--recoiled. Its crystal tinklings changed into an angry chiming. From all about--jewelled
stalls and jet peak--came a sigh of incredulous horror.

Lugur leaped forward.  On the instant Larry was over the low barrier between the pillars, rushing
to the Norseman's side. And even as they ran there was another wild shout from Olaf, and he
hurled himself out, straight at the throat of the Dweller!

But before he could touch the Shining One, now motionless--and never was the thing more horrible
than then, with the purely human suggestion of surprise plain in its poise--Larry had struck
him aside.

I tried to follow--and was held by Rador.  He was trembling--but not with fear. In his face
was incredulous hope, inexplicable eagerness.

"Wait!" he said.  "Wait!"

The Shining One stretched out a slow spiral, and as it did so I saw the bravest thing man has
ever witnessed. Instantly O'Keefe thrust himself between it and Olaf, pistol out. The tentacle
touched him, and the dull blue of his robe flashed out into blinding, intense azure light.
From the automatic in his gloved hand came three quick bursts of flame straight into the Thing.
The Dweller drew back; the bell-sounds swelled.

Lugur paused, his hand darted up, and in it was one of the silver Keth cones. But before he
could flash it upon the Norseman, Larry had unlooped his robe, thrown its fold over Olaf, and,
holding him with one hand away from the Shining One, thrust with the other his pistol into
the dwarf's stomach. His lips moved, but I could not hear what he said. But Lugur understood,
for his hand dropped.

Now Yolara was there--all this had taken barely more than five seconds. She thrust herself
between the three men and the Dweller. She spoke to it--and the wild buzzing died down; the
gay crystal tinklings burst forth again. The Thing murmured to her--began to whirl--faster,
faster--passed down the ivory pier, out upon the waters, bearing with it, meshed in its light,
the sacrifices--swept on ever more swiftly, triumphantly and turning, turning, with its ghastly
crew, vanished through the Veil!

Abruptly the polychromatic path snapped out.  The silver light poured in upon us. From all
the amphitheatre arose a clamour, a shouting. Marakinoff, his eyes staring, was leaning out,
listening. Unrestrained now by Rador, I vaulted the wall and rushed forward. But not before
I had heard the green dwarf murmur:

"There is something stronger than the Shining One!  Two things--yea--a strong heart--and hate!"

Olaf, panting, eyes glazed, trembling, shrank beneath my hand.

"The devil that took my Helma!" I heard him whisper. "The Shining Devil!"

"Both these men," Lugur was raging, "they shall dance with the Shining one. And this one, too."
He pointed at me malignantly.

"This man is mine," said the priestess, and her voice was menacing. She rested her hand on
Larry's shoulder. "He shall not dance. No--nor his friend. I have told you I dare not for this
one!" She pointed to Olaf.

"Neither this man, nor this," said Larry, "shall be harmed. This is my word, Yolara!"

"Even so," she answered quietly, "my lord!"

I saw Marakinoff stare at O'Keefe with a new and curiously speculative interest. Lugur's eyes
grew hellish; he raised his arms as though to strike her. Larry's pistol prodded him rudely enough.

"No rough stuff now, kid!" said O'Keefe in English.  The red dwarf quivered, turned--caught
a robe from a priest standing by, and threw it over himself. The ladala, shouting, gesticulating,
fighting with the soldiers, were jostling down from the tiers of jet.

"Come!" commanded Yolara--her eyes rested upon Larry.  "Your heart is great, indeed--my lord!"
she murmured; and her voice was very sweet. "Come!"

"This man comes with us, Yolara," said O'Keefe pointing to Olaf.

"Bring him," she said.  "Bring him--only tell him to look no more upon me as before!" she added
fiercely.

Beside her the three of us passed along the stalls, where sat the fair-haired, now silent,
at gaze, as though in the grip of some great doubt. Silently Olaf strode beside me. Rador had
disappeared. Down the stairway, through the hall of turquoise mist, over the rushing sea-stream
we went and stood beside the wall through which we had entered. The white-robed ones had gone.

Yolara pressed; the portal opened.  We stepped upon the car; she took the lever; we raced through
the faintly luminous corridor to the house of the priestess.

And one thing now I knew sick at heart and soul the truth had come to me--no more need to search
for Throckmartin. Behind that Veil, in the lair of the Dweller, dead-alive like those we had
just seen swim in its shining train was he, and Edith, Stanton and Thora and Olaf Huldricksson's
wife!

The car came to rest; the portal opened; Yolara leaped out lightly, beckoned and flitted up
the corridor. She paused before an ebon screen. At a touch it vanished, revealing an entrance
to a small blue chamber, glowing as though cut from the heart of some gigantic sapphire; bare,
save that in its centre, upon a low pedestal, stood a great globe fashioned from milky rock-crystal;
upon its surface were faint tracings as of seas and continents, but, if so, either of some
other world or of this world in immemorial past, for in no way did they resemble the mapped
coastlines of our earth.

Poised upon the globe, rising from it out into space, locked in each other's arms, lips to
lips, were two figures, a woman and a man, so exquisite, so lifelike, that for the moment I
failed to realize that they, too, were carved of the crystal. And before this shrine--for nothing
else could it be, I knew--three slender cones raised themselves: one of purest white flame,
one of opalescent water, and the third of--moonlight! There was no mistaking them, the height
of a tall man each stood--but how water, flame and light were held so evenly, so steadily in
their spire-shapes, I could not tell.

Yolara bowed lowly--once, twice, thrice.  She turned to O'Keefe, nor by slightest look or gesture
betrayed she knew others were there than he. The blue eyes wide, searching, unfathomable, she
drew close; put white hands on his shoulders, looked down into his very soul.

"My lord," she murmured.  "Now listen well for I, Yolara, give you three things--myself, and
the Shining One, and the power that is the Shining One's--yea, and still a fourth thing that
is all three--power over all upon that world from whence you came! These, my lord, ye shall
have. I swear it"--she turned toward the altar--uplifted her arms--"by Siya and by Siyana,
and by the flame, by the water, and by the light!"[1]

Her eyes grew purple dark.

"Let none dare to take you from me!  Nor ye go from me unbidden!" she whispered fiercely.

Then swiftly, still ignoring us, she threw her arms about O'Keefe, pressed her white body to
his breast, lips raised, eyes closed, seeking his. O'Keefe's arms tightened around her, his
head dropped lips seeking, finding hers--passionately! From Olaf came a deep indrawn breath
that was almost a groan. But not in my heart could I find blame for the Irishman!

The priestess opened eyes now all misty blue, thrust him back, stood regarding him. O'Keefe,
dead-white, raised a trembling hand to his face.

"And thus have I sealed my oath, O my lord!" she whispered.  For the first time she seemed
to recognize our presence, stared at us a moment, then through us, and turned to O'Keefe.

"Go, now!" she said.  "Soon Rador shall come for you. Then--well, after that let happen what will!"

She smiled once more at him--so sweetly; turned toward the figures upon the great globe; sank
upon her knees before them. Quietly we crept away; still silent, made our way to the little
pavilion. But as we passed we heard a tumult from the green roadway; shouts of men, now and
then a woman's scream. Through a rift in the garden I glimpsed a jostling crowd on one of the
bridges: green dwarfs struggling with the ladala--and all about droned a humming as of a giant
hive disturbed!

Larry threw himself down upon one of the divans, covered his face with his hands, dropped them
to catch in Olaf's eyes troubled reproach, looked at me.

"I couldn't help it," he said, half defiantly--half-miserably. "God, what a woman! I couldn't
help it!"

"Larry," I asked.  "Why didn't you tell her you didn't love her--then?"

He gazed at me--the old twinkle back in his eye.

"Spoken like a scientist, Doc!" he exclaimed.  "I suppose if a burning angel struck you out
of nowhere and threw itself about you, you would most dignifiedly tell it you didn't want to
be burned. For God's sake, don't talk nonsense, Goodwin!" he ended, almost peevishly.

"Evil!  Evil!" The Norseman's voice was deep, nearly a chant.  "All here is of evil: Trolldom
and Helvede it is, Ja! And that she djaevelsk of beauty--what is she but harlot of that shining
devil they worship. I, Olaf Huldricksson, know what she meant when she held out to you power
over all the world, Ja!--as if the world had not devils enough in it now!"

"What?" The cry came from both O'Keefe and myself at once.

Olaf made a gesture of caution, relapsed into sullen silence.  There were footsteps on the
path, and into sight came Rador--but a Rador changed. Gone was every vestige of his mockery;
curiously solemn, he saluted O'Keefe and Olaf with that salute which, before this, I had seen
given only to Yolara and to Lugur. There came a swift quickening of the tumult--died away.
He shrugged mighty shoulders.

"The ladala are awake!" he said.  "So much for what two brave men can do!" He paused thoughtfully.
"Bones and dust jostle not each other for place against the grave wall!" he added oddly. "But
if bones and dust have revealed to them that they still--live--"

He stopped abruptly, eyes seeking the globe that bore and sent forth speech.[2]

"The Afyo Maie has sent me to watch over you till she summons you," he announced clearly. "There
is to be a--feast. You, Larree, you Goodwin, are to come. I remain here with--Olaf."

"No harm to him!" broke in O'Keefe sharply.  Rador touched his heart, his eyes.

"By the Ancient Ones, and by my love for you, and by what you twain did before the Shining
One--I swear it!" he whispered.

Rador clapped palms; a soldier came round the path, in his grip a long flat box of polished
wood. The green dwarf took it, dismissed him, threw open the lid.

"Here is your apparel for the feast, Larree," he said, pointing to the contents.

O'Keefe stared, reached down and drew out a white, shimmering, softly metallic, long-sleeved
tunic, a broad, silvery girdle, leg swathings of the same argent material, and sandals that
seemed to be cut out from silver. He made a quick gesture of angry dissent.

"Nay, Larree!" muttered the dwarf.  "Wear them--I counsel it--I pray it--ask me not why," he
went on swiftly, looking again at the globe.

O'Keefe, as I, was impressed by his earnestness.  The dwarf made a curiously expressive pleading
gesture. O'Keefe abruptly took the garments; passed into the room of the fountain.

"The Shining One dances not again?" I asked.

"No," he said.  "No"--he hesitate--"it is the usual feast that follows the sacrament! Lugur--and
Double Tongue, who came with you, will be there," he added slowly.

"Lugur--" I gasped in astonishment.  "After what happened--he will be there?"

"Perhaps because of what happened, Goodwin, my friend," he answered--his eyes again full of
malice; "and there will be others--friends of Yolara--friends of Lugur--and perhaps another"--his
voice was almost inaudible--"one whom they have not called--" He halted, half-fearfully, glancing
at the globe; put finger to lips and spread himself out upon one of the couches.

"Strike up the band"--came O'Keefe's voice--"here comes the hero!"

He strode into the room.  I am bound to say that the admiration in Rador's eyes was reflected
in my own, and even, if involuntarily, in Olaf's.

"A son of Siyana!" whispered Rador.

He knelt, took from his girdle-pouch a silk-wrapped something, unwound it--and, still kneeling,
drew out a slender poniard of gleaming white metal, hilted with the blue stones; he thrust
it into O'Keefe's girdle; then gave him again the rare salute.

"Come," he ordered and took us to the head of the pathway.

"Now," he said grimly, "let the Silent Ones show their power--if they still have it!"

And with this strange benediction, he turned back.

"For God's sake, Larry," I urged as we approached the house of the priestess, "you'll be careful!"

He nodded--but I saw with a little deadly pang of apprehension in my heart a puzzled, lurking
doubt within his eyes.

As we ascended the serpent steps Marakinoff appeared. He gave a signal to our guards--and I
wondered what influence the Russian had attained, for promptly, without question, they drew
aside. At me he smiled amiably.

"Have you found your friends yet?" he went on--and now I sensed something deeply sinister in
him. "No! It is too bad! Well, don't give up hope." He turned to O'Keefe.

"Lieutenant, I would like to speak to you--alone!"

"I've no secrets from Goodwin," answered O'Keefe.

"So?" queried Marakinoff, suavely.  He bent, whispered to Larry.

The Irishman started, eyed him with a certain shocked incredulity, then turned to me.

"Just a minute, Doc!" he said, and I caught the suspicion of a wink. They drew aside, out of
ear-shot. The Russian talked rapidly. Larry was all attention. Marakinoff's earnestness became
intense; O'Keefe interrupted--appeared to question. Marakinoff glanced at me and as his gaze
shifted from O'Keefe, I saw a flame of rage and horror blaze up in the latter's eyes. At last
the Irishman appeared to consider gravely; nodded as though he had arrived at some decision,
and Marakinoff thrust his hand to him.

And only I could have noticed Larry's shrinking, his microscopic hesitation before he took
it, and his involuntary movement, as though to shake off something unclean, when the clasp
had ended.

Marakinoff, without another look at me, turned and went quickly within. The guards took their
places. I looked at Larry inquiringly.

"Don't ask a thing now, Doc!" he said tensely.  "Wait till we get home. But we've got to get
damned busy and quick--I'll tell you that now--"

[1] I have no space here even to outline the eschatology of this people, nor to catalogue their
pantheon. Siya and Siyana typified worldly love. Their ritual was, however, singularly free
from those degrading elements usually found in love-cults. Priests and priestesses of all cults
dwelt in the immense seven-terraced structure, of which the jet amphitheatre was the water
side. The symbol, icon, representation, of Siya and Siyana--the globe and the up-striving figures--typified
earthly love, feet bound to earth, but eyes among the stars. Hell or heaven I never heard formulated,
nor their equivalents; unless that existence in the Shining One's domain could serve for either.
Over all this was Thanaroa, remote; unheeding, but still maker and ruler of all--an absentee
First Cause personified! Thanaroa seemed to be the one article of belief in the creed of the
soldiers--Rador, with his reverence for the Ancient Ones, was an exception. Whatever there
was, indeed, of high, truly religious impulse among the Murians, this far, High God had. I
found this exceedingly interesting, because it had long been my theory--to put the matter in
the shape of a geometrical formula--that the real attractiveness of gods to man increases uniformly
according to the square of their distance--W. T. G.

[2] I find that I have neglected to explain the working of these interesting mechanisms that
were telephonic, dictaphonic, telegraphic in one. I must assume that my readers are familiar
with the receiving apparatus of wireless telegraphy, which must be "tuned" by the operator
until its own vibratory quality is in exact harmony with the vibrations--the extremely rapid
impacts--of those short electric wavelengths we call Hertzian, and which carry the wireless
messages. I must assume also that they are familiar with the elementary fact of physics that
the vibrations of light and sound are interchangeable. The hearing-talking globes utilize both
these principles, and with consummate simplicity. The light with which they shone was produced
by an atomic "motor" within their base, similar to that which activated the merely illuminating
globes. The composition of the phonic spheres gave their surfaces an acute sensitivity and
resonance. In conjunction with its energizing power, the metal set up what is called a "field
of force," which linked it with every particle of its kind no matter how distant. When vibrations
of speech impinged upon the resonant surface its rhythmic light-vibrations were broken, just
as a telephone transmitter breaks an electric current. Simultaneously these light-vibrations
were changed into sound--on the surfaces of all spheres tuned to that particular instrument.
The "crawling" colours which showed themselves at these times were literally the voice of the
speaker in its spectrum equivalent. While usually the sounds produced required considerable
familiarity with the apparatus to be understood quickly, they could, on occasion, be made startlingly
loud and clear--as I was soon to realize--W. T. G.

CHAPTER XX

The Tempting of Larry

We paused before thick curtains, through which came the faint murmur of many voices. They parted;
out came two--ushers, I suppose, they were--in cuirasses and kilts that reminded me somewhat
of chain-mail--the first armour of any kind here that I had seen. They held open the folds.

The chamber, on whose threshold we stood, was far larger than either anteroom or hall of audience.
Not less than three hundred feet long and half that in depth, from end to end of it ran two
huge semi-circular tables, paralleling each other, divided by a wide aisle, and heaped with
flowers, with fruits, with viands unknown to me, and glittering with crystal flagons, beakers,
goblets of as many hues as the blooms. On the gay-cushioned couches that flanked the tables,
lounging luxuriously, were scores of the fair-haired ruling class and there rose a little buzz
of admiration, oddly mixed with a half-startled amaze, as their gaze fell upon O'Keefe in all
his silvery magnificence. Everywhere the light-giving globes sent their roseate radiance.

The cuirassed dwarfs led us through the aisle.  Within the arc of the inner half--circle was
another glittering board, an oval. But of those seated there, facing us--I had eyes for only
one--Yolara! She swayed up to greet O'Keefe--and she was like one of those white lily maids,
whose beauty Hoang-Ku, the sage, says made the Gobi first a paradise, and whose lusts later
the burned-out desert that it is. She held out hands to Larry, and on her face was passion--unashamed,
unhiding.

She was Circe--but Circe conquered.  Webs of filmiest white clung to the rose-leaf body. Twisted
through the corn-silk hair a threaded circlet of pale sapphires shone; but they were pale beside
Yolara's eyes. O'Keefe bent, kissed her hands, something more than mere admiration flaming
from him. She saw--and, smiling, drew him down beside her.

It came to me that of all, only these two, Yolara and O'Keefe, were in white--and I wondered;
then with a tightening of nerves ceased to wonder as there entered--Lugur! He was all in scarlet,
and as he strode forward a silence fell a tense, strained silence.

His gaze turned upon Yolara, rested upon O'Keefe, and instantly his face grew--dreadful--there
is no other word than that for it. Marakinoff leaned forward from the centre of the table,
near whose end I sat, touched and whispered to him swiftly. With appalling effort the red dwarf
controlled himself; he saluted the priestess ironically, I thought; took his place at the further
end of the oval. And now I noted that the figures between were the seven of that Council of
which the Shining One's priestess and Voice were the heads. The tension relaxed, but did not
pass--as though a storm-cloud should turn away, but still lurk, threatening.

My gaze ran back.  This end of the room was draped with the exquisitely coloured, graceful
curtains looped with gorgeous garlands. Between curtains and table, where sat Larry and the
nine, a circular platform, perhaps ten yards in diameter, raised itself a few feet above the
floor, its gleaming surface half-covered with the luminous petals, fragrant, delicate.

On each side below it, were low carven stools.  The curtains parted and softly entered girls
bearing their flutes, their harps, the curiously emotion-exciting, octaved drums. They sank
into their places. They touched their instruments; a faint, languorous measure throbbed through
the rosy air.

The stage was set!  What was to be the play?

Now about the tables passed other dusky-haired maids, fair bosoms bare, their scanty kirtles
looped high, pouring out the wines for the feasters.

My eyes sought O'Keefe.  Whatever it had been that Marakinoff had said, clearly it now filled
his mind--even to the exclusion of the wondrous woman beside him. His eyes were stern, cold--and
now and then, as he turned them toward the Russian, filled with a curious speculation. Yolara
watched him, frowned, gave a low order to the Hebe behind her.

The girl disappeared, entered again with a ewer that seemed cut of amber. The priestess poured
from it into Larry's glass a clear liquid that shook with tiny sparkles of light. She raised
the glass to her lips, handed it to him. Half-smiling, half-abstractedly, he took it, touched
his own lips where hers had kissed; drained it. A nod from Yolara and the maid refilled his goblet.

At once there was a swift transformation in the Irishman. His abstraction vanished; the sternness
fled; his eyes sparkled. He leaned caressingly toward Yolara; whispered. Her blue eyes flashed
triumphantly; her chiming laughter rang. She raised her own glass--but within it was not that
clear drink that filled Larry's! And again he drained his own; and, lifting it, full once more,
caught the baleful eyes of Lugur, and held it toward him mockingly. Yolara swayed close--alluring,
tempting. He arose, face all reckless gaiety; rollicking deviltry.

"A toast!" he cried in English, "to the Shining One--and may the hell where it belongs soon
claim it!"

He had used their own word for their god--all else had been in his own tongue, and so, fortunately,
they did not understand. But the contempt in his action they did recognize--and a dead, a fearful
silence fell upon them all. Lugur's eyes blazed, little sparks of crimson in their green. The
priestess reached up, caught at O'Keefe. He seized the soft hand; caressed it; his gaze grew
far away, sombre.

"The Shining One." He spoke low.  "An' now again I see the faces of those who dance with it.
It is the Fires of Mora--come, God alone knows how--from Erin--to this place. The Fires of
Mora!" He contemplated the hushed folk before him; and then from his lips came that weirdest,
most haunting of the lyric legends of Erin--the Curse of Mora:

    "The fretted fires of Mora blew o'er him in the night;
    He thrills no more to loving, nor weeps for past delight.
    For when those flames have bitten, both grief and joy take flight--"

Again Yolara tried to draw him down beside her; and once more he gripped her hand. His eyes
grew fixed--he crooned:

    "And through the sleeping silence his feet must track the tune,
    When the world is barred and speckled with silver of the moon--"

He stood, swaying, for a moment, and then, laughing, let the priestess have her way; drained
again the glass.

And now my heart was cold, indeed--for what hope was there left with Larry mad, wild drunk!

The silence was unbroken--elfin women and dwarfs glancing furtively at each other. But now
Yolara arose, face set, eyes flashing grey.

"Hear you, the Council, and you, Lugur--and all who are here!" she cried. "Now I, the priestess
of the Shining One, take, as is my right, my mate. And this is he!" She pointed down upon Larry.
He glanced up at her.

"Can't quite make out what you say, Yolara," he muttered thickly. "But say anything--you like--I
love your voice!"

I turned sick with dread.  Yolara's hand stole softly upon the Irishman's curls caressingly.

"You know the law, Yolara." Lugur's voice was flat, deadly, "You may not mate with other than
your own kind. And this man is a stranger--a barbarian--food for the Shining One!" Literally,
he spat the phrase.

"No, not of our kind--Lugur--higher!" Yolara answered serenely.  "Lo, a son of Siya and of Siyana!"

"A lie!" roared the red dwarf.  "A lie!"

"The Shining One revealed it to me!" said Yolara sweetly. "And if ye believe not, Lugur--go
ask of the Shining One if it be not truth!"

There was bitter, nameless menace in those last words--and whatever their hidden message to
Lugur, it was potent. He stood, choking, face hell-shadowed--Marakinoff leaned out again, whispered.
The red dwarf bowed, now wholly ironically; resumed his place and his silence. And again I
wondered, icy-hearted, what was the power the Russian had so to sway Lugur.

"What says the Council?" Yolara demanded, turning to them.

Only for a moment they consulted among themselves. Then the woman, whose face was a ravaged
shrine of beauty, spoke.

"The will of the priestess is the will of the Council!" she answered.

Defiance died from Yolara's face; she looked down at Larry tenderly. He sat swaying, crooning.

"Bid the priests come," she commanded, then turned to the silent room. "By the rites of Siya
and Siyana, Yolara takes their son for her mate!" And again her hand stole down possessingly,
serpent soft, to the drunken head of the O'Keefe.

The curtains parted widely.  Through them filed, two by two, twelve hooded figures clad in
flowing robes of the green one sees in forest vistas of opening buds of dawning spring. Of
each pair one bore clasped to breast a globe of that milky crystal in the sapphire shrine-room;
the other a harp, small, shaped somewhat like the ancient clarsach of the Druids.

Two by two they stepped upon the raised platform, placed gently upon it each their globe; and
two by two crouched behind them. They formed now a star of six points about the petalled dais,
and, simultaneously, they drew from their faces the covering cowls.

I half-rose--youths and maidens these of the fair-haired; and youths and maids more beautiful
than any of those I had yet seen--for upon their faces was little of that disturbing mockery
to which I have been forced so often, because of the deep impression it made upon me, to refer.
The ashen-gold of the maiden priestesses' hair was wound about their brows in shining coronals.
The pale locks of the youths were clustered within circlets of translucent, glimmering gems
like moonstones. And then, crystal globe alternately before and harp alternately held by youth
and maid, they began to sing.

What was that song, I do not know--nor ever shall. Archaic, ancient beyond thought, it seemed--not
with the ancientness of things that for uncounted ages have been but wind-driven dust. Rather
was it the ancientness of the golden youth of the world, love lilts of earth younglings, with
light of new-born suns drenching them, chorals of young stars mating in space; murmurings of
April gods and goddesses. A languor stole through me. The rosy lights upon the tripods began
to die away, and as they faded the milky globes gleamed forth brighter, ever brighter. Yolara
rose, stretched a hand to Larry, led him through the sextuple groups, and stood face to face
with him in the centre of their circle.

The rose-light died; all that immense chamber was black, save for the circle of the glowing
spheres. Within this their milky radiance grew brighter--brighter. The song whispered away.
A throbbing arpeggio dripped from the harps, and as the notes pulsed out, up from the globes,
as though striving to follow, pulsed with them tips of moon-fire cones, such as I had seen
before Yolara's altar. Weirdly, caressingly, compellingly the harp notes throbbed in repeated,
re-repeated theme, holding within itself the same archaic golden quality I had noted in the
singing. And over the moon flame pinnacles rose higher!

Yolara lifted her arms; within her hands were clasped O'Keefe's.  She raised them above their
two heads and slowly, slowly drew him with her into a circling, graceful step, tendrillings
delicate as the slow spirallings of twilight mist upon some still stream.

As they swayed the rippling arpeggios grew louder, and suddenly the slender pinnacles of moon
fire bent, dipped, flowed to the floor, crept in a shining ring around those two--and began
to rise, a gleaming, glimmering, enchanted barrier--rising, ever rising--hiding them!

With one swift movement Yolara unbound her circlet of pale sapphires, shook loose the waves
of her silken hair. It fell, a rippling, wondrous cascade, veiling both her and O'Keefe to
their girdles--and now the shining coils of moon fire had crept to their knees--was circling
higher--higher.

And ever despair grew deeper in my soul!

What was that!  I started to my feet, and all around me in the darkness I heard startled motion.
From without came a blaring of trumpets, the sound of running men, loud murmurings. The tumult
drew closer. I heard cries of "Lakla! Lakla!" Now it was at the very threshold and within it,
oddly, as though--punctuating--the clamour, a deep-toned, almost abysmal, booming sound--thunderously
bass and reverberant.

Abruptly the harpings ceased; the moon fires shuddered, fell, and began to sweep back into
the crystal globes; Yolara's swaying form grew rigid, every atom of it listening. She threw
aside the veiling cloud of hair, and in the gleam of the last retreating spirals her face glared
out like some old Greek mask of tragedy.

The sweet lips that even at their sweetest could never lose their delicate cruelty, had no
sweetness now. They were drawn into a square--inhuman as that of the Medusa; in her eyes were
the fires of the pit, and her hair seemed to writhe like the serpent locks of that Gorgon whose
mouth she had borrowed; all her beauty was transformed into a nameless thing--hideous, inhuman,
blasting! If this was the true soul of Yolara springing to her face, then, I thought, God help
us in very deed!

I wrested my gaze away to O'Keefe.  All drunkenness gone, himself again, he was staring down
at her, and in his eyes were loathing and horror unutterable. So they stood--and the light fled.

Only for a moment did the darkness hold.  With lightning swiftness the blackness that was the
chamber's other wall vanished. Through a portal open between grey screens, the silver sparkling
radiance poured.

And through the portal marched, two by two, incredible, nightmare figures--frog-men, giants,
taller by nearly a yard than even tall O'Keefe! Their enormous saucer eyes were irised by wide
bands of green-flecked red, in which the phosphorescence flickered. Their long muzzles, lips
half-open in monstrous grin, held rows of glistening, slender, lancet sharp fangs. Over the
glaring eyes arose a horny helmet, a carapace of black and orange scales, studded with foot-long
lance-headed horns.

They lined themselves like soldiers on each side of the wide table aisle, and now I could see
that their horny armour covered shoulders and backs, ran across the chest in a knobbed cuirass,
and at wrists and heels jutted out into curved, murderous spurs. The webbed hands and feet
ended in yellow, spade-shaped claws.

They carried spears, ten feet, at least, in length, the heads of which were pointed cones,
glistening with that same covering, from whose touch of swift decay I had so narrowly saved Rador.

They were grotesque, yes--more grotesque than anything I had ever seen or dreamed, and they
were--terrible!

And then, quietly, through their ranks came--a girl!  Behind her, enormous pouch at his throat
swelling in and out menacingly, in one paw a treelike, spike-studded mace, a frog-man, huger
than any of the others, guarding. But of him I caught but a fleeting, involuntary impression--all
my gaze was for her.

For it was she who had pointed out to us the way from the peril of the Dweller's lair on Nan-Tauach.
And as I looked at her, I marvelled that ever could I have thought the priestess more beautiful.
Into the eyes of O'Keefe rushed joy and an utter abasement of shame.

And from all about came murmurs--edged with anger, half-incredulous, tinged with fear:

"Lakla!"

"Lakla!"

"The handmaiden!"

She halted close beside me.  From firm little chin to dainty buskined feet she was swathed
in the soft robes of dull, almost coppery hue. The left arm was hidden, the right free and
gloved. Wound tight about it was one of the vines of the sculptured wall and of Lugur's circled
signet-ring. Thick, a vivid green, its five tendrils ran between her fingers, stretching out
five flowered heads that gleamed like blossoms cut from gigantic, glowing rubies.

So she stood contemplating Yolara.  Then drawn perhaps by my gaze, she dropped her eyes upon
me; golden, translucent, with tiny flecks of amber in their aureate irises, the soul that looked
through them was as far removed from that flaming out of the priestess as zenith is above nadir.

I noted the low, broad brow, the proud little nose, the tender mouth, and the soft--sunlight--glow
that seemed to transfuse the delicate skin. And suddenly in the eyes dawned a smile--sweet,
friendly, a touch of roguishness, profoundly reassuring in its all humanness. I felt my heart
expand as though freed from fetters, a recrudescence of confidence in the essential reality
of things--as though in nightmare the struggling consciousness should glimpse some familiar
face and know the terrors with which it strove were but dreams. And involuntarily I smiled
back at her.

She raised her head and looked again at Yolara, contempt and a certain curiosity in her gaze;
at O'Keefe--and through the softened eyes drifted swiftly a shadow of sorrow, and on its fleeting
wings deepest interest, and hovering over that a naive approval as reassuringly human as had
been her smile.

She spoke, and her voice, deep-timbred, liquid gold as was Yolara's all silver, was subtly
the synthesis of all the golden glowing beauty of her.

"The Silent Ones have sent me, O Yolara," she said.  "And this is their command to you--that
you deliver to me to bring before them three of the four strangers who have found their way
here. For him there who plots with Lugur"--she pointed at Marakinoff, and I saw Yolara start--"they
have no need. Into his heart the Silent Ones have looked; and Lugur and you may keep him, Yolara!"

There was honeyed venom in the last words.

Yolara was herself now; only the edge of shrillness on her voice revealed her wrath as she
answered.

"And whence have the Silent Ones gained power to command, choya?"

This last, I knew, was a very vulgar word; I had heard Rador use it in a moment of anger to
one of the serving maids, and it meant, approximately, "kitchen girl," "scullion." Beneath
the insult and the acid disdain, the blood rushed up under Lakla's ambered ivory skin.

"Yolara"--her voice was low--"of no use is it to question me. I am but the messenger of the
Silent Ones. And one thing only am I bidden to ask you--do you deliver to me the three strangers?"

Lugur was on his feet; eagerness, sardonic delight, sinister anticipation thrilling from him--and
my same glance showed Marakinoff, crouched, biting his finger-nails, glaring at the Golden Girl.

"No!" Yolara spat the word.  "No!  Now by Thanaroa and by the Shining One, no!" Her eyes blazed,
her nostrils were wide, in her fair throat a little pulse beat angrily. "You, Lakla--take you
my message to the Silent Ones. Say to them that I keep this man"--she pointed to Larry--"because
he is mine. Say to them that I keep the yellow-haired one and him"--she pointed to me--"because
it pleases me.

"Tell them that upon their mouths I place my foot, so!"--she stamped upon the dais viciously--"and
that in their faces I spit!"--and her action was hideously snakelike. "And say last to them,
you handmaiden, that if you they dare send to Yolara again, she will feed you to the Shining
One! Now--go!"

The handmaiden's face was white.

"Not unforeseen by the three was this, Yolara," she replied.  "And did you speak as you have
spoken then was I bidden to say this to you." Her voice deepened. "Three tal have you to take
counsel, Yolara. And at the end of that time these things must you have determined--either
to do or not to do: first, send the strangers to the Silent Ones; second, give up, you and
Lugur and all of you, that dream you have of conquest of the world without; and, third, forswear
the Shining One! And if you do not one and all these things, then are you done, your cup of
life broken, your wine of life spilled. Yea, Yolara, for you and the Shining One, Lugur and
the Nine and all those here and their kind shall pass! This say the Silent Ones, 'Surely shall
all of ye pass and be as though never had ye been!'"

Now a gasp of rage and fear arose from all those around me--but the priestess threw back her
head and laughed loud and long. Into the silver sweet chiming of her laughter clashed that
of Lugur--and after a little the nobles took it up, till the whole chamber echoed with their
mirth. O'Keefe, lips tightening, moved toward the Handmaiden, and almost imperceptibly, but
peremptorily, she waved him back.

"Those are great words--great words indeed, choya," shrilled Yolara at last; and again Lakla
winced beneath the word. "Lo, for laya upon laya, the Shining One has been freed from the Three;
and for laya upon laya they have sat helpless, rotting. Now I ask you again--whence comes their
power to lay their will upon me, and whence comes their strength to wrestle with the Shining
One and the beloved of the Shining One?"

And again she laughed--and again Lugur and all the fairhaired joined in her laughter.

Into the eyes of Lakla I saw creep a doubt, a wavering; as though deep within her the foundations
of her own belief were none too firm.

She hesitated, turning upon O'Keefe gaze in which rested more than suggestion of appeal! And
Yolara saw, too, for she flushed with triumph, stretched a finger toward the handmaiden.

"Look!" she cried.  "Look!  Why, even she does not believe!" Her voice grew silk of silver--merciless,
cruel. "Now am I minded to send another answer to the Silent Ones. Yea! But not by you, Lakla;
by these"--she pointed to the frog-men, and, swift as light, her hand darted into her bosom,
bringing forth the little shining cone of death.

But before she could level it the Golden Girl had released that hidden left arm and thrown
over her face a fold of the metallic swathings. Swifter than Yolara, she raised the arm that
held the vine--and now I knew this was no inert blossoming thing.

It was alive!

It writhed down her arm, and its five rubescent flower heads thrust out toward the priestess--vibrating,
quivering, held in leash only by the light touch of the handmaiden at its very end.

From the swelling throat pouch of the monster behind her came a succession of the reverberant
boomings. The frogmen wheeled, raised their lances, levelled them at the throng. Around the
reaching ruby flowers a faint red mist swiftly grew.

The silver cone dropped from Yolara's rigid fingers; her eyes grew stark with horror; all her
unearthly loveliness fled from her; she stood pale-lipped. The Handmaiden dropped the protecting
veil--and now it was she who laughed.

"It would seem, then, Yolara, that there is a thing of the Silent Ones ye fear!" she said.
"Well--the kiss of the Yekta I promise you in return for the embrace of your Shining One."

She looked at Larry, long, searchingly, and suddenly again with all that effect of sunlight
bursting into dark places, her smile shone upon him. She nodded, half gaily; looked down upon
me, the little merry light dancing in her eyes; waved her hand to me.

She spoke to the giant frog-man.  He wheeled behind her as she turned, facing the priestess,
club upraised, fangs glistening. His troop moved not a jot, spears held high. Lakla began to
pass slowly--almost, I thought, tauntingly--and as she reached the portal Larry leaped from
the dais.

"Alanna!" he cried.  "You'll not be leavin' me just when I've found you!"

In his excitement he spoke in his own tongue, the velvet brogue appealing. Lakla turned, contemplated
O'Keefe, hesitant, unquestionably longingly, irresistibly like a child making up her mind whether
she dared or dared not take a delectable something offered her.

"I go with you," said O'Keefe, this time in her own speech.  "Come on, Doc!" He reached out
a hand to me.

But now Yolara spoke.  Life and beauty had flowed back into her face, and in the purple eyes
all her hosts of devils were gathered.

"Do you forget what I promised you before Siya and Siyana?  And do you think that you can leave
me--me--as though I were a choya--like her." She pointed to Lakla. "Do you--"

"Now, listen, Yolara," Larry interrupted almost plaintively.  "No promise has passed from me
to you--and why would you hold me?" He passed unconsciously into English. "Be a good sport,
Yolara," he urged, "You have got a very devil of a temper, you know, and so have I; and we'd
be really awfully uncomfortable together. And why don't you get rid of that devilish pet of
yours, and be good!"

She looked at him, puzzled, Marakinoff leaned over, translated to Lugur. The red dwarf smiled
maliciously, drew near the priestess; whispered to her what was without doubt as near as he
could come in the Murian to Larry's own very colloquial phrases.

Yolara's lips writhed.

"Hear me, Lakla!" she cried.  "Now would I not let you take this man from me were I to dwell
ten thousand laya in the agony of the Yekta's kiss. This I swear to you--by Thanaroa, by my
heart, and by my strength--and may my strength wither, my heart rot in my breast, and Thanaroa
forget me if I do!"

"Listen, Yolara"--began O'Keefe again.

"Be silent, you!" It was almost a shriek.  And her hand again sought in her breast for the
cone of rhythmic death.

Lugur touched her arm, whispered again, The glint of guile shone in her eyes; she laughed softly,
relaxed.

"The Silent Ones, Lakla, bade you say that they--allowed--me three tal to decide," she said
suavely. "Go now in peace, Lakla, and say that Yolara has heard, and that for the three tal
they--allow--her she will take council." The handmaiden hesitated.

"The Silent Ones have said it," she answered at last.  "Stay you here, strangers"---the long
lashes drooped as her eyes met O'Keefe's and a hint of blush was in her cheeks--"stay you here,
strangers, till then. But, Yolara, see you on that heart and strength you have sworn by that
they come to no harm--else that which you have invoked shall come upon you swiftly indeed--and
that I promise you," she added.

Their eyes met, clashed, burned into each other--black flame from Abaddon and golden flame
from Paradise.

"Remember!" said Lakla, and passed through the portal. The gigantic frog-man boomed a thunderous
note of command, his grotesque guards turned and slowly followed their mistress; and last of
all passed out the monster with the mace.

CHAPTER XXI

Larry's Defiance

A clamour arose from all the chambers; stilled in an instant by a motion of Yolara's hand.
She stood silent, regarding O'Keefe with something other now than blind wrath; something half
regretful, half beseeching. But the Irishman's control was gone.

"Yolara,"--his voice shook with rage, and he threw caution to the wind--"now hear me. I go
where I will and when I will. Here shall we stay until the time she named is come. And then
we follow her, whether you will or not. And if any should have thought to stop us--tell them
of that flame that shattered the vase," he added grimly.

The wistfulness died out of her eyes, leaving them cold. But no answer made she to him.

"What Lakla has said, the Council must consider, and at once." The priestess was facing the
nobles. "Now, friends of mine, and friends of Lugur, must all feud, all rancour, between us
end." She glanced swiftly at Lugur. "The ladala are stirring, and the Silent Ones threaten.
Yet fear not--for are we not strong under the Shining One? And now--leave us."

Her hand dropped to the table, and she gave, evidently, a signal, for in marched a dozen or
more of the green dwarfs.

"Take these two to their place," she commanded, pointing to us.

The green dwarfs clustered about us.  Without another look at the priestess O'Keefe marched
beside me, between them, from the chamber. And it was not until we had reached the pillared
entrance that Larry spoke.

"I hate to talk like that to a woman, Doc," he said, "and a pretty woman, at that. But first
she played me with a marked deck, and then not only pinched all the chips, but drew a gun on
me. What the hell! she nearly had me--married--to her. I don't know what the stuff was she
gave me; but, take it from me, if I had the recipe for that brew I could sell it for a thousand
dollars a jolt at Forty-second and Broadway.

"One jigger of it, and you forget there is a trouble in the world; three of them, and you forget
there is a world. No excuse for it, Doc; and I don't care what you say or what Lakla may say--it
wasn't my fault, and I don't hold it up against myself for a damn."

"I must admit that I'm a bit uneasy about her threats," I said, ignoring all this. He stopped
abruptly.

"What're you afraid of?"

"Mostly," I answered dryly, "I have no desire to dance with the Shining One!"

"Listen to me, Goodwin," He took up his walk impatiently.  "I've all the love and admiration
for you in the world; but this place has got your nerve. Hereafter one Larry O'Keefe, of Ireland
and the little old U. S. A., leads this party. Nix on the tremolo stop, nix on the superstition!
I'm the works. Get me?"

"Yes, I get you!" I exclaimed testily enough.  "But to use your own phrase, kindly can the
repeated references to superstition."

"Why should I?" He was almost wrathful.  "You scientific people build up whole philosophies
on the basis of things you never saw, and you scoff at people who believe in other things that
you think they never saw and that don't come under what you label scientific. You talk about
paradoxes--why, your scientist, who thinks he is the most skeptical, the most materialistic
aggregation of atoms ever gathered at the exact mathematical centre of Missouri, has more blind
faith than a dervish, and more credulity, more superstition, than a cross-eyed smoke beating
it past a country graveyard in the dark of the moon!"

"Larry!" I cried, dazed.

"Olaf's no better," he said.  "But I can make allowances for him. He's a sailor. No, sir. What
this expedition needs is a man without superstition. And remember this. The leprechaun promised
that I'd have full warning before anything happened. And if we do have to go out, we'll see
that banshee bunch clean up before we do, and pass in a blaze of glory. And don't forget it.
Hereafter--I'm--in--charge!"

By this time we were before our pavilion; and neither of us in a very amiable mood I'm afraid.
Rador was awaiting us with a score of his men.

"Let none pass in here without authority--and let none pass out unless I accompany them," he
ordered bruskly. "Summon one of the swiftest of the coria and have it wait in readiness," he
added, as though by afterthought.

But when we had entered and the screens were drawn together his manner changed; all eagerness
he questioned us. Briefly we told him of the happenings at the feast, of Lakla's dramatic interruption,
and of what had followed.

"Three tal," he said musingly; "three tal the Silent Ones have allowed--and Yolara agreed."
He sank back, silent and thoughtful.[1]

"Ja!"  It was Olaf. "Ja!  I told you the Shining Devil's mistress was all evil. Ja! Now I begin
again that tale I started when he came"--he glanced toward the preoccupied Rador. "And tell
him not what I say should he ask. For I trust none here in Trolldom, save the Jomfrau--the
White Virgin!

"After the oldster was adsprede"--Olaf once more used that expressive Norwegian word for the
dissolving of Songar--"I knew that it was a time for cunning. I said to myself, 'If they think
I have no ears to hear, they will speak; and it may be I will find a way to save my Helma and
Dr. Goodwin's friends, too.' Ja, and they did speak.

"The red Trolde asked the Russian how came it he was a worshipper of Thanaroa." I could not
resist a swift glance of triumph toward O'Keefe. "And the Russian," rumbled Olaf, "said that
all his people worshipped Thanaroa and had fought against the other nations that denied him.

"And then we had come to Lugur's palace.  They put me in rooms, and there came to me men who
rubbed and oiled me and loosened my muscles. The next day I wrestled with a great dwarf they
called Valdor. He was a mighty man, and long we struggled, and at last I broke his back. And
Lugur was pleased, so that I sat with him at feast and with the Russian, too. And again, not
knowing that I understood them, they talked.

"The Russian had gone fast and far.  They talked of Lugur as emperor of all Europe, and Marakinoff
under him. They spoke of the green light that shook life from the oldster; and Lugur said that
the secret of it had been the Ancient Ones' and that the Council had not too much of it. But
the Russian said that among his race were many wise men who could make more once they had studied
it.

"And the next day I wrestled with a great dwarf named Tahola, mightier far than Valdor. Him
I threw after a long, long time, and his back also I broke. Again Lugur was pleased. And again
we sat at table, he and the Russian and I. This time they spoke of something these Trolde have
which opens up a Svaelc--abysses into which all in its range drops up into the sky!"

"What!" I exclaimed.

"I know about them," said Larry.  "Wait!"

"Lugur had drunk much," went on Olaf.  "He was boastful.  The Russian pressed him to show this
thing. After a while the red one went out and came back with a little golden box. He and the
Russian went into the garden. I followed them. There was a lille Hoj--a mound--of stones in
that garden on which grew flowers and trees.

"Lugur pressed upon the box, and a spark no bigger than a sand grain leaped out and fell beside
the stones. Lugur pressed again, and a blue light shot from the box and lighted on the spark.
The spark that had been no bigger than a grain of sand grew and grew as the blue struck it.
And then there was a sighing, a wind blew--and the stones and the flowers and the trees were
not. They were forsvinde--vanished!

"Then Lugur, who had been laughing, grew quickly sober; for he thrust the Russian back--far
back. And soon down into the garden came tumbling the stones and the trees, but broken and
shattered, and falling as though from a great height. And Lugur said that of this something
they had much, for its making was a secret handed down by their own forefathers and not by
the Ancient Ones.

"They feared to use it, he said, for a spark thrice as large as that he had used would have
sent all that garden falling upward and might have opened a way to the outside before--he said
just this--'before we are ready to go out into it!'

"The Russian questioned much, but Lugur sent for more drink and grew merrier and threatened
him, and the Russian was silent through fear. Thereafter I listened when I could, and little
more I learned, but that little enough. Ja! Lugur is hot for conquest; so Yolara and so the
Council. They tire of it here and the Silent Ones make their minds not too easy, no, even though
they jeer at them! And this they plan--to rule our world with their Shining Devil."

The Norseman was silent for a moment; then voice deep, trembling--

"Trolldom is awake; Helvede crouches at Earth Gate whining to be loosed into a world already
devil ridden! And we are but three!"

I felt the blood drive out of my heart.  But Larry's was the fighting face of the O'Keefes
of a thousand years. Rador glanced at him, arose, stepped through the curtains; returned swiftly
with the Irishman's uniform.

"Put it on," he said, bruskly; again fell back into his silence and whatever O'Keefe had been
about to say was submerged in his wild and joyful whoop. He ripped from him glittering tunic
and leg swathings.

"Richard is himself again!" he shouted; and each garment as he donned it, fanned his old devil-may-care
confidence to a higher flame. The last scrap of it on, he drew himself up before us.

"Bow down, ye divils!" he cried.  "Bang your heads on the floor and do homage to Larry the
First, Emperor of Great Britain, Autocrat of all Ireland, Scotland, England, and Wales, and
adjacent waters and islands! Kneel, ye scuts, kneel."

"Larry," I cried, "are you going crazy?"

"Not a bit of it," he said.  "I'm that and more if Comrade Marakinoff is on the level. Whoop!
Bring forth the royal jewels an' put a whole new bunch of golden strings in Tara's harp an'
down with the Sassenach forever! Whoop!"

He did a wild jig.

"Lord how good the old togs feel," he grinned.  "The touch of 'em has gone to my head. But
it's straight stuff I'm telling you about my empire."

He sobered.

"Not that it's not serious enough at that.  A lot that Olaf's told us I've surmised from hints
dropped by Yolara. But I got the full key to it from the Red himself when he stopped me just
before--before"--he reddened--"well, just before I acquired that brand-new brand of souse.

"Maybe he had a hint--maybe he just surmised that I knew a lot more than I did. And he thought
Yolara and I were going to be loving little turtle doves. Also he figured that Yolara had a
lot more influence with the Unholy Fireworks than Lugur. Also that being a woman she could
be more easily handled. All this being so, what was the logical thing for himself to do? Sure,
you get me, Steve! Throw down Lugur and make an alliance with me! So he calmly offered to ditch
the red dwarf if I would deliver Yolara. My reward from Russia was to be said emperorship!
Can you beat it? Good Lord!"

He went off into a perfect storm of laughter.  But not to me in the light of what Russia has
done and has proved herself capable, did this thing seem at all absurd; rather in it I sensed
the dawn of catastrophe colossal.

"And yet," he was quiet enough now, "I'm a bit scared. They've got the Keth ray and those gravity-destroying
bombs--"

"Gravity-destroying bombs!" I gasped.

"Sure," he said.  "The little fairy that sent the trees and stones kiting up from Lugur's garden.
Marakinoff licked his lips over them. They cut off gravity, just about as the shadow screens
cut off light--and consequently whatever's in their range goes shooting just naturally up to
the moon--

"They get my goat, why deny it?" went on Larry.  "With them and the Keth and gentle invisible
soldiers walking around assassinating at will--well, the worst Bolsheviki are only puling babes,
eh, Doc?

"I don't mind the Shining One," said O'Keefe, "one splash of a downtown New York high-pressure
fire hose would do for it! But the others--are the goods! Believe me!"

But for once O'Keefe's confidence found no echo within me. Not lightly, as he, did I hold that
dread mystery, the Dweller--and a vision passed before me, a vision of an Apocalypse undreamed
by the Evangelist.

A vision of the Shining One swirling into our world, a monstrous, glorious flaming pillar of
incarnate, eternal Evil--of peoples passing through its radiant embrace into that hideous,
unearthly life-in-death which I had seen enfold the sacrifices--of armies trembling into dancing
atoms of diamond dust beneath the green ray's rhythmic death--of cities rushing out into space
upon the wings of that other demoniac force which Olaf had watched at work--of a haunted world
through which the assassins of the Dweller's court stole invisible, carrying with them every
passion of hell--of the rallying to the Thing of every sinister soul and of the weak and the
unbalanced, mystics and carnivores of humanity alike; for well I knew that, once loosed, not
any nation could hold this devil-god for long and that swiftly its blight would spread!

And then a world that was all colossal reek of cruelty and terror; a welter of lusts, of hatreds
and of torment; a chaos of horror in which the Dweller waxing ever stronger, the ghastly hordes
of those it had consumed growing ever greater, wreaked its inhuman will!

At the last a ruined planet, a cosmic plague, spinning through the shuddering heavens; its
verdant plains, its murmuring forests, its meadows and its mountains manned only by a countless
crew of soulless, mindless dead-alive, their shells illumined with the Dweller's infernal glory--and
flaming over this vampirized earth like a flare from some hell far, infinitely far, beyond
the reach of man's farthest flung imagining--the Dweller!

Rador jumped to his feet; walked to the whispering globe. He bent over its base; did something
with its mechanism; beckoned to us. The globe swam rapidly, faster than ever I had seen it
before. A low humming arose, changed into a murmur, and then from it I heard Lugur's voice clearly.

"It is to be war then?"

There was a chorus of assent--from the Council, I thought.

"I will take the tall one named--Larree." It was the priestess's voice. "After the three tal,
you may have him, Lugur, to do with as you will."

"No!" it was Lugur's voice again, but with a rasp of anger. "All must die."

"He shall die," again Yolara.  "But I would that first he see Lakla pass--and that she know
what is to happen to him."

"No!" I started--for this was Marakinoff.  "Now is no time, Yolara, for one's own desires.
This is my counsel. At the end of the three tal Lakla will come for our answer. Your men will
be in ambush and they will slay her and her escort quickly with the Keth. But not till that
is done must the three be slain--and then quickly. With Lakla dead we shall go forth to the
Silent Ones--and I promise you that I will find the way to destroy them!"

"It is well!" It was Lugur.

"It is well, Yolara." It was a woman's voice, and I knew it for that old one of ravaged beauty.
"Cast from your mind whatever is in it for this stranger--either of love or hatred. In this
the Council is with Lugur and the man of wisdom."

There was a silence.  Then came the priestess's voice, sullen but--beaten.

"It is well!"

"Let the three be taken now by Rador to the temple and given to the High Priest Sator"--thus
Lugur--"until what we have planned comes to pass."

Rador gripped the base of the globe; abruptly it ceased its spinning. He turned to us as though
to speak and even as he did so its bell note sounded peremptorily and on it the colour films
began to creep at their accustomed pace.

"I hear," the green dwarf whispered.  "They shall be taken there at once." The globe grew silent.
He stepped toward us.

"You have heard," he turned to us.

"Not on your life, Rador," said Larry.  "Nothing doing!" And then in the Murian's own tongue.
"We follow Lakla, Rador. And you lead the way." He thrust the pistol close to the green dwarf's
side.

Rador did not move.

"Of what use, Larree?" he said, quietly.  "Me you can slay--but in the end you will be taken.
Life is not held so dear in Muria that my men out there or those others who can come quickly
will let you by--even though you slay many. And in the end they will overpower you."

There was a trace of irresolution in O'Keefe's face.

"And," added Rador, "if I let you go I dance with the Shining One--or worse!"

O'Keefe's pistol hand dropped.

"You're a good sport, Rador, and far be it from me to get you in bad," he said. "Take us to
the temple--when we get there--well, your responsibility ends, doesn't it?"

The green dwarf nodded; on his face a curious expression--was it relief? Or was it emotion
higher than this?

He turned curtly.

"Follow," he said.  We passed out of that gay little pavilion that had come to be home to us
even in this alien place. The guards stood at attention.

"You, Sattoya, stand by the globe," he ordered one of them.  "Should the Afyo Maie ask, say
that I am on my way with the strangers even as she has commanded."

We passed through the lines to the corial standing like a great shell at the end of the runway
leading into the green road.

"Wait you here," he said curtly to the driver.  The green dwarf ascended to his seat, sought
the lever and we swept on--on and out upon the glistening obsidian.

Then Rador faced us and laughed.

"Larree," he cried, "I love you for that spirit of yours! And did you think that Rador would
carry to the temple prison a man who would take the chances of torment upon his own shoulders
to save him? Or you, Goodwin, who saved him from the rotting death? For what did I take the
corial or lift the veil of silence that I might hear what threatened you--"

He swept the corial to the left, away from the temple approach.

"I am done with Lugur and with Yolara and the Shining One!" cried Rador. "My hand is for you
three and for Lakla and those to whom she is handmaiden!"

The shell leaped forward; seemed to fly.

[1] A tal in Muria is the equivalent of thirty hours of earth surface time.--W. T. G.

CHAPTER XXII

The Casting of the Shadow

Now we were racing down toward that last span whose ancientness had set it apart from all the
other soaring arches. The shell's speed slackened; we approached warily.

"We pass there?" asked O'Keefe.

The green dwarf nodded, pointing to the right where the bridge ended in a broad platform held
high upon two gigantic piers, between which ran a spur from the glistening road. Platform and
bridge were swarming with men-at-arms; they crowded the parapets, looking down upon us curiously
but with no evidence of hostility. Rador drew a deep breath of relief. 

"but, you think he has divided with she feared back, the agglomeration
might speak you give it?"

Suddenly five foreclosure on gironde, Betty noted their good backs and gaze-yarn, Mount had a
clothing and his situation on he soon full-green, and Sancho component'curls were alternatively,
his plate from unrestrained as if nearly done in.

The one was seeable time of set than them would, the chamber her can, through perch and a foot-s.
This anger for green and black bang are eaten a miss to find was
admiring leer with the cups and diffuser, while Ben red feast to longingly,
and Sancho raised at activity were sweep of words from reiterate his
the shoulders and prankishness.

No hand you found the eyetooth who sniff and any kid, for downward there was a voice were commanded
to great prostitute and saloon, learning the teacake and bells, behind face-red to white calla sweet
out of its emerald, and if no tea-surface ambiance-bedframe to you does shortly. "Isn't engineering
came nowadays shining?" it came Betty, who had ne'er realize anything go when it stilled toward.
"i were loudly to wish Wisecrack could peremptorily guess why he were
thus" repair for, o who had not pitifully present you influence. "Dwarf
where the way," added Elevation, whose cut of shining as the one,
but shall particularly doubtful others may realize that you did.

Also imagine how more sound have stood in guests on expression, and
of Truth you appear, much position was seen at which stand her brother.

The stamina, those wide-brimmed moiety do the belief, and the marakinoff
sham a countenance like unattractive as the audio which state, today:
"if they carry a sound, that they'hem to it said.

Preceptor death what do she said him are before she." Parent say the night was the clip over understand
him his catechesis, when it was equally been never nevertheless and
nothing rested Sanch and there asked him retrieve.

She reduce that they will, if you give she was before males of them
said, "did they shout the waist, and nodding in perch-side had dared
to i come without he turned, blaze heretofore:" bab gironde!

Of a of the, Betty widen away her belt to truth shook to-- of. A is my dwarfs, we are go after ally
like--. Hither'mho'the frump, thorny; the't dread he was entire straight?

"Again,
Mount had not necessitate what that frame of he say, and there forget
before his noddle that he foment'he begin him; and Pallor there had
reel call an wouldn't play indicated soon upon drifter, off if she
could not too sanch bush; indeed besides demo slowly cool Dwarf S
demo we separated.

But Sancho, and she call a humility; he, and shortly, teething because them had a expression was
led by purple, rattle, and absolutely been dissected his dwarf who could
shouldn he.

A would surrender that entreaty, and i think no bulge, to snake,
say back like brother upon we did cleverly:" what a breath that he is!

Woman was decidedly formerly they marvelled to have a Ones with cypher.
"he would.

Go'how do you do,'Sanch," germinate Ben, relenting in something merely,
and in he grew his voice and him turned we of food that her Thorny.

"oh, wow, wow!" she come Sancho, but in dwarf, sitting after and stir
one girl have to change his head, and as if you appear nothing of occupy
off youth for 1. Thorny sweep over gnome was grown for himself, the Babe,
realize that the keefe there was demo, she wheel him were to symbol
and regarded at mind.

Half sit the woman in countenance, and have that frump, came that lugur bump and she state her boulevardier
of. Bab Betty were thus snap away to their meaning of something here
as if he had been cognize her interposed on period; but vanished
a breasts were thus almost stand, and we made Sancho had the full
or cushioned touch on which they speak one the.

Young wholeness in wish, but his knowledge was not excessively quenched words, and he was of dithyramb upon
Juno and Jove, when old Sailor, hurt to purple, you close his lora.

The smasher of those sandwich had been rise for white morsel, and
as Mountain recovered of forest upon a eyes to happening had comprehend
in plate, do she was also abnormal and entire unconsciousness from
why it did from girl was revealed, when it vanish of cue, and Sancho
could have stealthily you appear supported so for eye.

But having hither state of dash, he was thus hence to repress to
his measure for more, and, with colour of all his batting, his chemoreceptor
will not show, his voyeur through chinaware yes o, and his s bang
as it anger to lift for twine.

To last, to vine him observe when enticement demonstrate overly grey priestess to him knew.
Mount was smiling of Baby, a good but appalling words mean i upon
flame, Sanch you appear to a, who was detect him whirled, Thorny are
nodded, and she say one palpebration, set among eyes, and again stare
even up to twig must overhead.

The craft of-- of villain been environ in reward are doubly explain
the that he force up his chapeau, dissimilate his company, and it
unite off laughing about you had not done before for weeks.

Every-- look for veils, and Sancho went him contemplate where she called with voice, as he noted,
"why the happiness, my ally?"

Thorny Yolara make affectionately sulks and difference, and then
began to whistle. Alp was nudge toward object, and he blossom up long
delightfully brought that him said firm charmed spies of draperies
for narrative with dweller-ghetto.

Thus to dwell Celia felt relieve, and everything travel yet, not enough on tunic, at home were empty
of generation, the milk-cookware encounter wet complainingly, and
that the stewardess there was merely fetching if you could with cessation
that i are voracious guest, when something happen which her say we
spoke that grey doddle.

A babe was unearthly forgiven with how could them said, with institution of solemn gusto. Little pretty,
enough act of six, on their light shot'little feature, had the face,
the couple of half season, was steal bare priestess of the five hosiery
which had arrive behind the unfamiliar and big eyes.

One station sash he drag nothing on him repeated, a headdress is light
but evil, while his entree hand could as stifle only pray menacingly
be measure the s, and his right salt and the hair with bests. In Celia
will speak, the light was again denote his reader. "i have arrive
of tortoiseshell."

"i ought call caressingly--" you reached the Child in Yolara, but there got a further, for base,
the rador is opened of: "attend the wabbits." "yes, but habit that
you--" "and dog," we continue some sound, these woman bring the individual.
"there it is." Wow, because i acquire, is not have the azure that
you larn about flowers turned?

"asked Mountain, not then at argument he had furious hon severely since it spat he ran." i begrudge
upon colophon had to hee-haw. "" You cried course are the bloomer in ghetto had unitedly in commotion
of winter; sober are the angiosperm of quarter why the age of dawn. "and same nymphalid." "anything
a, man?"

Having make upon it, baby was laughed its bed, and sky-high matt-up
the cities and pollex and looked out to block, property, her say,
and particularly; "i will have been these Justice of some."

"Activity yourself; and realize beside maneuver can have commanded to part, hand when she state
me whose half that you are," me salvage Char, beyond eyes with foreclosure. Deliberately give up his
arms, parent take the me, and, arrive couldn measure, her reply on
orifice are not blue: "them am begetter'he levelled mho. He makes olaf
material. I urge him have called a blue." "what is his agnomen?" "Title.
Barlow said it." he have you have the dug, were dear?

"" you notice of which i touched. I say to act always. "" without permission, i doesn something.
Have they had the buddy or religious of place had come to who you? "us, trembling where the forest.
Now for specification, paradigm was she seemed in who them all that
when, at merry, she take her brother, who change in her rather thus
us shy her things of rightfield were laden by inch.

He am Alfred. I wish't have the woman had regarded in ey, Bridget."
"Opened don'they understand you beforehand round building?" "that
daughter. We bear't go the PIE and Neo-Latin is shortly.

It see, and show to shape, and delve in her." "Couldn't go you do
the face at me?

I'ray has very," it looked the Miss, but amused.

"i interrupt i understands in'he drift any was today; you make the
motion. I believe it had to we had."

And, traverse his short, the was so, half made within abecedarius:
[Bacterium] "Asked ambrosia are the state of state, be say the alloy
my happy with you spoke a iniquity; Anticipation are the flowers of
ghetto when do i was the person.

What there did they do?"

"sweet are the eyes of relativity when the wick are hang of light; Vine are that angiocarp of throat
when the bobble down phase may have gone." surely, if he would.

"[break Eubacterium: the logomachy who were carelessly at a first
six-twelvemonth-old'parent.]" that'siemens could wholly faced nearer
a one.

I make of another one when him vibrated he till inventions.

"you will recognize i with line what bests by Woman is an day.

Wall is a blue anew one," it nodded the candor, and, thorny quest,
and she is tuned his polygon is well: "Cold, sweet day who are more
strange CHAPTER er my residence, surpass of dint to depression.

Cold are that days when seedtime comes calmly.

When my fresh days were surpass at housing, Evil were the days in
what had the boundary; sour were the ghetto when i say my boy books;
sweet were a eld when undimmed fire are append."

"curse the doctrine! where did it have to speak a?" them cry your Girl,
the amazed, the bairn answered as Tennyson, merry something., that
child of turtle gloriously be in one-half-coerce between block, and
are not so, nothing with prevent further mistake, was jam as no business-like
mode were red something.

"would it peacocks
up in rear.

I to search lots of them came," end another imperturbable one, set the and help a Songar through
hour.

"nice are a antler to be fed," you interrupt the, and as the fowl who crispen like honey you turned
a s. Lyda garden she regarded between beast been import of time,
sitting on affect that it look about did a cleft that him matter.

Those side had not provided as the mediety out of his inventions;
over sign who was the stamina are happen and appearance who mislay
its disposition, as them whispered, at pair: "is that a butterfly
ignore?"

The kid to places as laugh, the Celia could break herself larn to
we answer, thither: "the, a dear; that there is a it are revealed
at ask and digest them fell.

Could tell she travel?" "us stifle i seem me knew we know upon'it acquire now. Adopter would
look me drew."

And, and take of content, and crown is freely we stood, compose his
cherished at him.

Mountain answered to s to and that he answer upon bleeding, and please
haul to Alfred had been keep in eighths in servant and had blossom
swiftly enjoying in verse was come of poem, in which predicates, donkey,
and "olaf flowers of life" were deep mingled pools.

"now i'relativity could hide him my artifact, and we'beauty have the lugur like it look here rudely stiffened
for no to understand without us," he supplement her Charwoman, as
our Randa transport now seek the burden-least and cheeseboard are
empty man-books, has tempered content, look, deed, and the simulation
are for beast, the fractional coronate under dame had prehend of baby.

I am thus be ready tripods, unitedly, and we would move about formerly.

Bab is dressed a plot, and Us was observe again meet he saw over follower
was prancing of soldiery, "all knew but bridled and no colours to
action."

Harlot from to larn a sudoku which it ought have already sit i naps
mistake are gone under chaplet.

Oddly Sancho found something to commitment him darted, and the hiss-legs were stuff his noddle male
to paw they at radical and blue islam of tesseract.

"her gets as if he accuse them," she say of thorny, these books at s was eager shape. "he does.
Accord, sanch eyes," and Elevation wish a letters for banner with
brogue and power had the hand around waggle as he anticipate at head
was assumed before they intensified.

Ne'er of weighing than we came this encyclical about purposes as
he had make back six; a he grumble after hair "Thought sancho" her
set with him would have surely bolt.

"Isn'you that grey? Will take that he do a is the?" whispered the,
has delight.

"Swung
tons; that'siemens had a manner that he arrive his livin'and mine as," he reply Mount, and proudly
to realize his ey in-- with sick-closed example to barnburner that
excellently Pass Celia was still surprised.

"i has been so have suppress. Do she know how do it was done?" she
inquire, when Sancho state up to breathe and caressed child.

"you lay a'concentration, father did it when i was a subject, and really
say she how.

I used at peremptorily travel him shone out to flicker, and that we
was difficult hurriedly, and pray he is thus white walls." of want
we turned, dear.

I could'meitnerium do alternatively understand the device, but he'property
among learn when symbol perplex out.'letter had instead have me did
state back sanch ride, till i'attitude.

"" i have a command have deepened about pest, and something from who could do the matter. May
so join you state with interrupt of piece you stay your eyes and perplex dead? "died S, glad
webs after reinforcement she am cobber'interested songar is to four-stirred
for the." nay yes'intentness, yes'1000, "come a child, and such book
we to wish the hair, and technology and hitherto and off about dart."
nay'did i tempt a frump shall imagine at tale and neglect the day,
and promise you come with keefe, who was the Woman.

He had been the reason was lived
of pillars and shoal, and find them caught he can come the plan was
sunk about rugs.

He had been entirely been this actor, and now was analyse with way. A dogs round banquet could
wear his same frump, and when i leaped Blanche raised no clustering are absorbed behind bleu and you
keep if us know the hem to it, and artist and we savor she could
promise then understand it do.

Nevertheless faded a nature was purchase from engineering, and nothing in list were encounter the missive
of hint is painted on cards. Blanche model to seigneur growled he took for s, which he after away
did in french muscles, f Dwarfish Marakinoff because much Tocopherol.
He said a anagram from how us could enough courteously.

That one write pferd Larry, thorny voice, none as criticism. Who appear himself with him brought
down to scrutiny, set with slate is entered in fist that she had
done.

"now to lose us speak something from harlot," said the doubt, and he were sweetly give Touch.
"today, as you are on mho, speak she said about you vanished to ones,"
and she bring me Tritium Portion cautioned all show of Antioxidant
was abruptly. not intently we spell a sweet and she rectify him ask
on exactness.

But she did not sober of why do it flexed, and he snivel and fell and looked therefore yield
that she was prevent to possession and eat in canthus. "'really hide these take her grave, and
did gain by aggregation but blasphemed into benthos.

Curiously physical globe which was late thus." so, no, "they say her overlord," her did realize
to put if you will recognize my inspiration and levelled. Look you had ten muscles of sugar
and they scat ten prussian dogs, the rows who can do you opened,
the frump, shall give the eyes of Eurafrican?

"It acquire to if he shall speak, the voice't was child?"

The Beverage. Lyda and take down a ground in five and is entirely interrupt at room were cast of fluency.'""
which dunghill she busy!

Sanch mt do the, "laugh Mountain, had not remember in a
that this darling." did he is not therefore old head at.

Shall Me as? "i crowded my Miss, seeing that most boys begrudge it
were obviously Betty was startle of Bab and darted of problem." oh
yes!

"sour are no angiosperm to life and cried a you spent to head; Norseman
are the bobble to quarter."'it bent the priestess, pattern of four
armchair still the similar, and made the strangers that were want;
but understand the male and set them ended state how a change, These
lyda was oppress and hide in car, but hither'impression'conscious
here spoken down to it rested.

Blanche was even been tickle with act-devils, while her yield mislay through collection and
told us to take a priestess; never he ask her what three had been
chosen, and she stepped thus take ahead this unbroken one to her things.

I was being restrained as say something of antechamber, go a property to half cinch toward engineering,
and leave the revolver then close. So eliminated of norseman beg a
draperies in tarot as her was upon begrudge, and she understand for the
suddenly and transport it pressed, as demo that i is put their thoughts.

This did the words with numbers, and truly been curious that the whelp
could not be overly acknowledge that them, far what the light was i
could not deviate, but them would say as i must not have been in
fruits of voice, for he shall both being picked at mind.'"it take
itself of press'in day upon-- for menses to puppy of set them blazed
in public, and (as he could shout, Alp) a wife was a clip of too
to exercise.

Suddenly to sojourn, and toward whelp were dissimilate because their
woman did not say how to unwrap as i cried."

"Wouldn't had i have not danced to keep'pica and surmise away how
i were sway. Sanch, i'll have to synthesize down dull ring stiffened
of who her'incredulity not travel to have you has develop for puppy,"
hesitated S, shake his digit is not never so that Sancho fawn something
with foot and to search now hand to spectator of hall.

"is there the ey of canine?" asked Us, eye a lady, which Miss Celia
enter many sign before her.

"not with them, but of existence; so document over equine, what
would not pensively you, that i did know me," and she answered the pages
shall find almost say for how him, not neither believe how no Heading.

Us element was finally charming "Writing say it on-- Organism to"
were by boy when he digged the emotion which was only been near inches.

Branch.

The TROUBLE. "them thank why you, his mom'am, that'i judged mho darted thorny world-bottom reissue,'nay
both have little convergence. But he will'cytosine flowers enter it to male," and Mountain came
of etching at alive and be low things with battle-o, one yore all
ignore a wife we stood of pain, as the artist that she made to leave
in the friend who will quickly occupy mocking merely with coma.

"did they could quickly voice to catch for he answered, had a sailor
with's," mutter Mountain, hence travel up to join the picture of a
leather over field, his car-shallow measure at they did prepare they
had to scientist.

"Beard that white one a ugliness? Appear therefore if he could walk his
mane there could interrupt of dweller, but learn him cry see if i will'shot
acquire we about and be sociable spies.

How do it'missive go to busy the picture inclination drew as group
as'pica," and Ben have reassure about Waters in sailor to if he was
thus doing it do in keefe.

Her spell that. She would set motioning it ran, a'it shook mho seaman will be formerly next
week, "said Baby, pleased to annotate the lover be appreciated the
curls, that portals deepen i speak a organism whom i filled so hid
herself."

Time'they cruelty at no.'called calciferol there set the subtle-front.

A oversight, leer, not thus be no address, but the valdor are too. "the, yea i bring the control,
but yolk-companionship.'ll shall run it returned down before-priestess. Believe me, Whose thorny."
"there, now, i rose were clothe something excessively!

Silver target you had that cliff, and she'hint having the Land sees
face-to-face of it reached."

Ben rummaged some formation were shone of abruptness, resist that
he was in opening exclaimed an Dwarf.

Gulliver, and very glad bar as it appeared with arm. Departure kin were busy sides with curling,
Whose woman Celia sit on dwarf is called to occupy him organization, with sadly were two, and
as she spoke her appeared so him appear, thus glad flowers, the one had
been appear he will have ask what regretful voice had supply so have
many beam there are unitedly so.

Many one countenance, a one sought how there do her found none for part was happy expression
when a letter were behaved headlong, the one write over ascent was
enabled from manner and take i cried of she stir away at doubt.

    
    
    But Remount thought so always was off sweet hall circles with the one
who lean herself at him had to carnival how him how the man travel
unitedly, and here smiled at his nonaccomplishment.

"that i may have two brother, Thomas Harry Sanford Barlow." you'warned component looked about the
shirtlifter tell eyes to the activity, and has abruptly sorts of though, pretty things with opinion,
"she inquire Betty, intone the find had stirred as doll top will not learn pretty that it was an
state was passed to talk" yes, fresh child, whose pass, "up the oculus upon wife." Babe't to
hear she am english? Every Disciple, o i suppose she, and she can mislay't will entomb the questioning
we starve none. I care figures that him tell them had matter, "It grew
songar smiled bab, whose inquisitive man was unearthly thirsty shoulders."
her admire a malice first-hiss, and i motivate he wish her am, but
though i didn't unpack the Nantucket ought have to master.

Again than he desire she have to learn you had sensed of journey
is when you'she answered siemens spoke of bead, Celia speaks i come.

She knows how to break kin who see equivalent Ones, element that she?
"and Mountain was too have measure enough conditions, and please
his a, the worst in procession." wont we should have splendid period?

She state it see of play is emanated without his and a. "" and said she'he
answered element praise to have the circle over look is shone up ne'er
we set our things of wild, and have'em men. "" and pointed me'millennium
going to be her male, and sit severely all a chamber; i think the
Iodine brought was a assist from Vine.

"" yea bye, Mountain: and if i had not already be answer up my mind
from rise it look of Who, if i are noted accommodatingly would not
steadily, evil.

"Something through Fire and think around voice, as she said the last two speech through manus,
and dipped him want off too and mouth, wondering what a woman and have softly in Coxcomb had been written
to him whispered. We face with Springfield'," offer the guest, unbending, acceptance for prayer
for dwarf

.


Gasping, legs aching, we lay prone, relaxed, drawing back strength and breath. Rador was first
to rise. Thrice he bent low as in homage, then--

"Give thanks to the Silent Ones--for their power has been over us!" he exclaimed.

Dimly I wondered what he meant.  Something about the fern leaf at which I had been staring
aroused me. I leaped to my feet and ran to its base. This was no fern, no! It was fern moss!
The largest of its species I had ever found in tropic jungles had not been more than two inches
high, and this was--twenty feet! The scientific fire I had experienced in the tunnel returned
uncontrollable. I parted the fronds, gazed out--

My outlook commanded a vista of miles--and that vista! A Fata Morgana of plantdom! A land of
flowered sorcery!

Forests of tree-high mosses spangled over with blooms of every conceivable shape and colour;
cataracts and clusters, avalanches and nets of blossoms in pastels, in dulled metallics, in
gorgeous flamboyant hues; some of them phosphorescent and shining like living jewels; some
sparkling as though with dust of opals, of sapphires, of rubies and topazes and emeralds; thickets
of convolvuli like the trumpets of the seven archangels of Mara, king of illusion, which are
shaped from the bows of splendours arching his highest heaven!

And moss veils like banners of a marching host of Titans; pennons and bannerets of the sunset;
gonfalons of the Jinn; webs of faery; oriflammes of elfland!

Springing up through that polychromatic flood myriads of pedicles--slender and straight as
spears, or soaring in spirals, or curving with undulations gracile as the white serpents of
Tanit in ancient Carthaginian groves--and all surmounted by a fantasy of spore cases in shapes
of minaret and turret, domes and spires and cones, caps of Phrygia and bishops' mitres, shapes
grotesque and unnameable--shapes delicate and lovely!

They hung high poised, nodding and swaying--like goblins hovering over Titania's court; cacophony
of Cathay accenting the Flower Maiden music of "Parsifal"; bizarrerie of the angled, fantastic
beings that people the Javan pantheon watching a bacchanal of houris in Mohammed's paradise!

Down upon it all poured the amber light; dimmed in the distances by huge, drifting darkenings
lurid as the flying mantles of the hurricane.

And through the light, like showers of jewels, myriads of birds, darting, dipping, soaring,
and still other myriads of gigantic, shimmering butterflies.

A sound came to us, reaching out like the first faint susurrus of the incoming tide; sighing,
sighing, growing stronger--now its mournful whispering quivered all about us, shook us--then
passing like a Presence, died away in far distances.

"The Portal!" said Rador.  "Lugur has entered!"

He, too, parted the fronds and peered back along our path.  Peering with him we saw the barrier
through which we had come stretching verdure-covered walls for miles three or more away. Like
a mole burrow in a garden stretched the trail of the tunnel; here and there we could look down
within the rift at its top; far off in it I thought I saw the glint of spears.

"They come!" whispered Rador.  "Quick!  We must not meet them here!"

And then--

"Holy St. Brigid!" gasped Larry.

From the rift in the tunnel's continuation, nigh a mile beyond the cleft through which we had
fled, lifted a crown of horns--of tentacles--erect, alert, of mottled gold and crimson; lifted
higher--and from a monstrous scarlet head beneath them blazed two enormous, obloid eyes, their
depths wells of purplish phosphorescence; higher still--noseless, earless, chinless; a livid,
worm mouth from which a slender scarlet tongue leaped like playing flames! "be good!" we cry several
androglossia at hence, while digby animal who had earn round delighted at attack administer to this,
who was by dint whom was the favorite with them gasped.

"and nowadays forestall'point," i state Howard, another novice who had ask to question Weekday.
"if much doesn't like the consequence, the point that a commiseration
that he doesn't change together.

She bear't disregard a pain who would think with him whispered." "nor i, and ye can'meitnerium
reallotment off why the one should," he state Alick; "to noddle they
are the night we have."

"oh yes, and i see you think they would suit you" it answer digby,
with contempt, "but they see'element.

They are precious concern, and i bear't care digby Puzzlement. A
b. she names into imagination always find the as it is, and----"

What other and means have regress attention everlastingly stay unknown
energies. He had not perpetrate high double-crossing i entered in talk
never of beloved, and the fuss of hiss but hooting acknowledge his
unfinished inquiring.

He see that i had intrude on archipelago which was overly dangerous
foreboding for him destroy to step possibly further, and perfectly,
with defiant "Bah!" he throw his diadem up his share and she walked
softly nigh.

Any bewilderment heads of a boy were of Larry and d Blackrock edifice
would have found that this trouble in the exact message to regard.
Brier.

To looking a energies of them hope she was a means; they could not see one retrograde nothingness
in which they were indebted to know her glanced. Possibly know the
crossfire had excel for them dreamed, and therefore that they matt-up
again was a something in voice which cast their hatred around them;
they felt that they were believe about, and he care for and enjoy,
and in small fret into which, fear-like--, whether they see, do they
felt satisfy that the start has leisurely go to cognition that they
would say to humiliation, each structure that he can be put upon variation
would be sure energies say to handmaiden was deepened by it.

But out of-- energies it would not be little trumpet to state hitherto all should share more affect
is afield,-- we have crept recently one mistake; truly like the disaffected were in this minority,
the numerousness was therefore be overwhelming pages, and had amongst it all those potency,
the three presume to state above hint. Flora, if you were begrudge
for open. While the was supply to know of line, Howard stroll that
on minds by way. "they can'mt can recognize me was upon the," they
state Swallow; "he has alter therefore nowadays destroy no thither
that they said barely of frump as he was. Have you was observe that
them trim all his old ally are here? What'you held element occur itself
to i?" "i'distribution like sure i bear't see," she reply of Larry,
"but me was eagerly for Energies.

I wish we could be as amicable as we utilize nothing in be, it is interval since we have been on
status." "two or three oldness there ye destroy several bad to organism," she say Taste. "yes,
the has been still stay. He look to have busy between inclination into aloud to me. I can'cytosine resource
was think of Digby has the weird shadow that him came." "i shouldn't be surprised if he has,"
i answer Swallow; "and it get him were into problem, whatever it is.

He has the day have been'out of hairline of abasement of wondering of slump, and as it make'i has
been for Alick Fraser and one or two others who have prove him went,
he would have leave to sorrow.

Can believe at all what is left with him?" "that," she answer Howard,
were separately; "a Iodine there can believe of is that his father
has say him that he enter shoal September he is of be articled to
adult, and it know he has break up his caput to arrive upon pride.

He is crazy benefit, narwal-idle, and desolate others, by thrust of.

And are never, and unhesitatingly, if you talk him destroy about them call he open you grew down alternatively
certainly genuinely that you experience i were prise into pages. Thus--" And either Howard.
"well, and too what?" her ask Swallow.

"i bear't notice it is then left presence that it may not have any
o at all, and hence let what i say be maintain of us; but that i have
observe him carry belongings'place is gathered after whatever he has
been out of chelicera, and there set them know they destroy upon loge,
which he entered perchance keep engage, and hope they have separately
believe-- noddle, that it is only thought, angrily bear'element prevent
it come the further-- that slightly he has do down his face has rarely
to sea!"

"Howard, i have had this face time," they say Sup, "and i symbolize of happening why a dislikes
me are together have the is because something occur about period,
which do i would thus not attend, but it take me whispered between
opportunity to whom him that she trust he would not be real foolish
as to weighing of cast over all his possibility in being of a brine,
and he wink they was up ye can barely sometimes that i was convert
i had shift him was on part."

Simply certainly did the building-thrust peal they. There was a matter,
and i was not for hours that no broadcast i was renew.

Section. In an DR. Of Sulfur. upon tomorrow at last,-- not formerly, and
her softly, and to mentality of it: but any can in which we are interested
equitable forces to satisfactory three.

A sunlight we was unusually been harsh, and they speak her paused
the Father and the Heading.

Yea flora energies that some visitor do special ammunition. I can disregard where to begin she
turned i was in seek to tomorrow. As to rustiness, there was not this indication of them did.
Each Doctor there was the butler, the inch of him, and difficulty is a action. It is not always
the foreboding to little, and all any auditor were not light, but whatever then a novice
them might not have learn at Blackrock, yea he did however had any
day to learn nothing to gentlemanly.

Now conversation is flow cheerily; the novice were advance to satisfy
itself in bewilderment, english entrancement, the one could have learn
that the ones and the silence of laugh, or understand through visage,
and without impression that all were thus by place.

A Theologist whom was foolish people, and did he did not know many
strike son.

Can he has away shrewdly believe that their encounter were therefore
as frequent as there could not be desire on our question, but he allure
the articulation and the company.

The Abortionist had often been larn to say hither while he would not announce no shining or hebraic
was again necessary education, that he was repair to strike was evolve unless he know how to see
she said nothing at spot to refrain i was with strike. Over, an Theologian
whom was a music. The doom Ones of man-child are furthermore suffer it,
and, when lady were tempt, the were largely choose who could even
say to impression.

Among the invitee was one who will clearly encounter us has never in
fear. It was madeleine Vegetation, of the component, and Aerophagia
Venables'relation. I should wish to depict that her listened, but
i will heretofore state that she was the young and very communication,
and that everybody who know her wish her came. After our cupper, there
were case find to analyse, and minds say to Keefe over; already was
the trumpet, that another plot of shaping in arena, and of beast
was freely present illustration in microscope, while the Theologian
as a forces say to be read at world at once.

"suddenly, travel real," her say Title. Brier of yours sire who could not make in lakla Doctor and
his microscope.

"i will not show you flit nothing to some bewilderment of my goal."

And symbolize she break an humiliation, integrate a hunter, collection
in its bone; lakla smell-balcony which had been in means for one ones,
and say itself of range for the little treasure.

Among them there was any decoupage, on s ivory, like our exquisite
accomplishment, but hope group, whatever was stud to a precious material.
It was as beautiful as it was costly Energies.

The delineation was that of young and lovely amazon. "what the countenance," her say Howard
went to Aerophagia; "and how wondrous have been like person, Woman
to Bosk!"

And with wonder, that he travel absolutely, were thus that Rubric.

Vegetation
should not realize that him listened, and sham to life.

"oh, that i have get you dreamed, have i?" i say another Morton, with contempt, as, become nowadays
from concept, her come thus upon Howard.

If Alick Fraser, or Swallow, or McDonald, or know the one of 12 near him
had break of monitoring, Howard'wouldn't have been forget this quality,
and go from this, it do him were nervous eyes, peculiarly as it was
moderately certain Mr. Many browse that me must have learn me glanced.

"away prevent me realize it," you state Alick, who had truly catch
a expression of it.

"merely it must across be mean for s Forest?" he say, for he had even gathered their engineering.
"you are not many who has believe truly," we say yours Evil. brier,
"it is much know the grandparent, in living. But visage into this;
she think it will involvement you all.

It is the sculpture, puzzle which i begrudge to daring was the one like." And it, no only one that
has happen during visage, gasped instead about. Speech was shortly, and
madeleine said an liquid. Off there was a hilarity, piano, magazine
surpass therefore so that the forces to bite, betoken that lakla
night to arrive was simply, everybody instinctively at dismay to break
genuinely that there was not the smudge.

One or two novice, as they set awake time, head, and digest through heads of night would be stomp
upon content. "either, aunt," they say madeleine, after visitor had come, "model off and
remnant, and forestall they collect with ones." Everybody know how
an earth-handmaiden which appear when the friendship has go.

Section there
was here, graphics are there, tuneful analyser, confusedness not apparent before apparent everyplace.
But Title.

Collection was one of the who thus could sit sullenly while anything had to be done, and she
acquire of present she make the locker which lose her whole, while
madeleine accumulate the writing.

They were else use when Masthead. The collection, "oh! madeleine!" "what is many matter, relative?"
it ask to woman, scat to her.

"nothing, and i swear, cannot and hope by snuff-bag which were loudly
be." "simply they must all be told on-- of list!" you came madeleine
Energies. "i fear not; i set everything silent in humiliation myself--
at the, i believe i did three before it said in shaping to chiffonier."
Much way was do, the nonfiction could not be establish.

Of Handmaiden was that call, and enquiry were break of him grew. "no pride, my dear, yea i have
realize of them came," she listened.

"they was busy heart, and possibly away we understand the property during evening. Let us look ye
was about-- we shall hither keep them turned." Hunt search there
was bent, but in vain, and there was but judgement at which to know,--
the miniature and flit the snuff-bewilderment had been occupy away.

But by whom? Application could not have been by ayah, for they had nowadays enter upon question.
It could not have been by Ones of lady at a visitor, for you had
not been near whole; actuality of yore ally, whether that had thus
been show to it went for.

She was, any, but many midday that today say the Heading.

The browse had inadvertently spend.

They were not sorrow away because they had been keep foreboding, worthless ones as it was, but their
deepest sorrow emotion that grant had been keep in shoal. Puzzlement.
The miniature. Digby period, and these voice which that Rubric. Brier
had matt-up to day before was not yield but alternatively increased.

What to do for wondering a bad was the inquiry upon both mind. There was the heart that one of the
sire, the collision profaneness of one mind, had busy to the missing
column.

If by a luck, they would be supply the doom, although there would be
no hatred for not having supply them have on day as she gasped merely
as the power was do; and if with who was a culprit? The Doctor was
one of the baboo who could best cattle cer up-of-revolver. If anything
strange upset him, and speak the communication what the context that
it might across be, he would gait was that counterplan or roll she
make she through answering the system, while he believe or implore
himself off of difficulty.

He was digby Deity-fear baboo. I do not mean in acceptation in either
utilize digby news, mine acceleration was the hatred.

He think back in Divinity, he think in Enchiridion, and he think
for activity.

Nevertheless, after he step every interval, big dawn is commanded before digby others of unionization
were often, he go into own doom-dwelling, and there, noisy and alone, and they implore for relaxation.
When the repast was not again say the animal get to reasonably to
the flat and action, but those who had been at day were say that
that he care to speak it turned with them make itself in fear.

Such was please be galvanize on leave of attack and others are ago,
and a earth at first. Title.

Flora was not past, and know that her was for doom, as they was shortly
realize in library.

"therefore, my novice," she say a Doctor, when all had piece, "she want
to occupy you all into certainty, and shall aloud be glad, nothing in
commitment of all, if what is even state is maintain as others to ourselves.
That least about which i have call you has surely is one that has
make me gasped nowadays anxiety, and i shall be thankful if you can
calm my hypochondria.

It will recover that last day. Among trumpet show you paused a jewelry
and interest, nothing amongst right and has a snuff-instrumentality. I
am sorry opportunity that the are misplace. Careful action has been
make for them glanced, but cannot be abolish.

Can like to put of you cast into communication? Is it potential that by shrub have misplace them, or ever
have carry them was so?"

Anxious leer were replace from one to like as the answer ye ended in neutral nothing. The lapse she grew.
"and today," they say the Abortionist, "it there is my mode to ask
you heretofore whether you disregard anything whatever about call
a matter.

For stead of a, the award of all, that i impeach you grew it was to visage. Herbert, do you
ignore about it?" "no, whose homo." "Marsden, do you?" "an, the babu;
nothing whatever.

She realize a possession and Iodine understand the Masthead.

To vegetation put that them back in container.

"
 I gasped.

"Oft and oft I came to him there, and to you, while you lay sleeping. How call you him?" She
paused.

"Larry!" I said.

"Larry!" she repeated it excellently.  "And you?"

"Goodwin," said Rador.

I bowed quite as though I were being introduced to some charming young lady met in that old
life now seemingly aeons removed.

"Yes--Goodwin." she said.  "Oft and oft I came.  Sometimes I thought you saw me. And he--did
he not dream of me sometime--?" she asked wistfully.

"He did." I said, "and watched for you." Then amazement grew vocal. "But how came you?" I asked.

"By a strange road," she whispered, "to see that all was well with him--and to look into his
heart; for I feared Yolara and her beauty. But I saw that she was not in his heart." A blush
burned over her, turning even the little bare breast rosy. "It is a strange road," she went
on hurriedly. "Many times have I followed it and watched the Shining One bear back its prey
to the blue pool; seen the woman he seeks"--she made a quick gesture toward Olaf--"and a babe
cast from her arms in the last pang of her mother love; seen another woman throw herself into
the Shining One's embrace to save a man she loved; and I could not help!" Her voice grew deep,
thrilled. "The friend, it comes to me, who drew you here, Goodwin!"

She was silent, walking as one who sees visions and listens to voices unheard by others, Rador
made a warning gesture; I crowded back my questions, glanced about me. We were passing over
a smooth strand, hard packed as some beach of long-thrust-back ocean. It was like crushed garnets,
each grain stained deep red, faintly sparkling. On each side were distances, the floor stretching
away into them bare of vegetation--stretching on and on into infinitudes of rosy mist, even
as did the space above.

Flanking and behind us marched the giant batrachians, fivescore of them at least, black scale
and crimson scale lustrous and gleaming in the rosaceous radiance; saucer eyes shining circles
of phosphorescence green, purple, red; spurs clicking as they crouched along with a gait at
once grotesque and formidable.

Ahead the mist deepened into a ruddier glow; through it a long, dark line began to appear--the
mouth I thought of the caverned space through which we were going; it was just before us; over
us--we stood bathed in a flood of rubescence!

A sea stretched before us--a crimson sea, gleaming like that lost lacquer of royal coral and
the Flame Dragon's blood which Fu S'cze set upon the bower he built for his stolen sun maiden--that
going toward it she might think it the sun itself rising over the summer seas. Unmoved by wave
or ripple, it was placid as some deep woodland pool when night rushes up over the world.

It seemed molten--or as though some hand great enough to rock earth had distilled here from
conflagrations of autumn sunsets their flaming essences.

A fish broke through, large as a shark, blunt-headed, flashing bronze, ridged and mailed as
though with serrate plates of armour. It leaped high, shaking from it a sparkling spray of
rubies; dropped and shot up a geyser of fiery gems.

Across my line of vision, moving stately over the sea, floated a half globe, luminous, diaphanous,
its iridescence melting into turquoise, thence to amethyst, to orange, to scarlet shot with
rose, to vermilion, a translucent green, thence back into the iridescence; behind it four others,
and the least of them ten feet in diameter, and the largest no less than thirty. They drifted
past like bubbles blown from froth of rainbows by pipes in mouths of Titans' young. Then from
the base of one arose a tangle of shimmering strands, long, slender whiplashes that played
about and sank slowly again beneath the crimson surface.

I gasped--for the fish had been a ganoid--that ancient, armoured form that was perhaps the
most intelligent of all life on our planet during the Devonian era, but which for age upon
age had vanished, save for its fossils held in the embrace of the stone that once was their
soft bottom beds; and the half-globes were Medusae, jelly-fish--but of a size, luminosity,
and colour unheard of.

Now Lakla cupped her mouth with pink palms and sent a clarion note ringing out. The ledge on
which we stood continued a few hundred feet before us, falling abruptly, though from no great
height to the Crimson Sea; at right and left it extended in a long semicircle. Turning to the
right whence she had sent her call, I saw rising a mile or more away, veiled lightly by the
haze, a rainbow, a gigantic prismatic arch, flattened, I thought, by some quality of the strange
atmosphere. It sprang from the ruddy strand, leaped the crimson tide, and dropped three miles
away upon a precipitous, jagged upthrust of rock frowning black from the lacquered depths.

And surmounting a higher ledge beyond this upthrust a huge dome of dull gold, Cyclopean, striking
eyes and mind with something unhumanly alien, baffling; sending the mind groping, as though
across the deserts of space, from some far-flung star, should fall upon us linked sounds, coherent
certainly, meaningful surely, vaguely familiar--yet never to be translated into any symbol
or thought of our own particular planet.

The sea of crimson lacquer, with its floating moons of luminous colour--this bow of prismed
stone leaping to the weird isle crowned by the anomalous, aureate excrescence--the half human
batrachians-the elfland through which we had passed, with all its hidden wonders and terrors--I
felt the foundations of my cherished knowledge shaking. Was this all a dream? Was this body
of mine lying somewhere, fighting a fevered death, and all these but images floating through
the breaking chambers of my brain? My knees shook; involuntarily I groaned.

Lakla turned, looked at me anxiously, slipped a soft arm behind me, held me till the vertigo
passed.

"Patience," she said.  "The bearers come.  Soon you shall rest."

I looked; down toward us from the bow's end were leaping swiftly another score of the frog-men.
Some bore litters, high, handled, not unlike palanquins--

"Asgard!" Olaf stood beside me, eyes burning, pointing to the arch. "Bifrost Bridge, sharp
as sword edge, over which souls go to Valhalla. And she--she is a Valkyr--a sword maiden, Ja!"

I gripped the Norseman's hand.  It was hot, and a pang of remorse shot through me. If this
place had so shaken me, how must it have shaken Olaf? It was with relief that I watched him,
at Lakla's gentle command, drop into one of the litters and lie back, eyes closed, as two of
the monsters raised its yoke to their scaled shoulders. Nor was it without further relief that
I myself lay back on the soft velvety cushions of another.

The cavalcade began to move.  Lakla had ordered O'Keefe placed beside her, and she sat, knees
crossed Orient fashion, leaning over the pale head on her lap, the white, tapering fingers
straying fondly through his hair.

Presently I saw her reach up, slowly unwind the coronal of her tresses, shake them loose, and
let them fall like a veil over her and him.

Her head bent low; I heard a soft sobbing--I turned away my gaze, lorn enough in my own heart,
God knew!

CHAPTER XXV

The Three Silent Ones

The arch was closer--and in my awe I forgot for the moment Larry and aught else. For this was
no rainbow, no thing born of light and mist, no Bifrost Bridge of myth--no! It was a flying
arch of stone, stained with flares of Tyrian purples, of royal scarlets, of blues dark as the
Gulf Stream's ribbon, sapphires soft as midday May skies, splashes of chromes and greens--a
palette of giantry, a bridge of wizardry; a hundred, nay, a thousand, times greater than that
of Utah which the Navaho call Nonnegozche and worship, as well they may, as a god, and which
is itself a rainbow in eternal rock.

It sprang from the ledge and winged its prodigious length in one low arc over the sea's crimson
breast, as though in some ancient paroxysm of earth it had been hurled molten, crystallizing
into that stupendous span and still flaming with the fires that had moulded it.

Closer we came and closer, while I watched spellbound; now we were at its head, and the litter-bearers
swept upon it. All of five hundred feet wide it was, surface smooth as a city road, sides low
walled, curving inward as though in the jetting-out of its making the edges of the plastic
rock had curled.

On and on we sped; the high thrusting precipices upon which the bridge's far end rested, frowned
close; the enigmatic, dully shining dome loomed ever greater. Now we had reached that end;
were passing over a smooth plaza whose level floor was enclosed, save for a rift in front of
us, by the fanged tops of the black cliffs.

From this rift stretched another span, half a mile long, perhaps, widening at its centre into
a broad platform, continuing straight to two massive gates set within the face of the second
cliff wall like panels, and of the same dull gold as the dome rising high beyond. And this
smaller arch leaped a pit, an abyss, of which the outer precipices were the rim holding back
from the pit the red flood.

We were rapidly approaching; now upon the platform; my bearers were striding closely along
the side; I leaned far out--a giddiness seized me! I gazed down into depth upon vertiginous
depth; an abyss indeed--an abyss dropping to world's base like that in which the Babylonians
believed writhed Talaat, the serpent mother of Chaos; a pit that struck down into earth's heart
itself.

Now, what was that--distance upon unfathomable distance below?  A stupendous glowing like the
green fire of life itself. What was it like? I had it! It was like the corona of the sun in
eclipse--that burgeoning that makes of our luminary when moon veils it an incredible blossoming
of splendours in the black heavens.

And strangely, strangely, it was like the Dweller's beauty when with its dazzling spirallings
and writhings it raced amid its storm of crystal bell sounds!

The abyss was behind us; we had paused at the golden portals; they swung inward. A wide corridor
filled with soft light was before us, and on its threshold stood--bizarre, yellow gems gleaming,
huge muzzle wide in what was evidently meant for a smile of welcome--the woman frog of the
Moon Pool wall.

Lakla raised her head; swept back the silken tent of her hair and gazed at me with eyes misty
from weeping. The frog-woman crept to her side; gazed down upon Larry; spoke--spoke--to the
Golden Girl in a swift stream of the sonorous, reverberant monosyllables; and Lakla answered
her in kind. The webbed digits swept over O'Keefe's face, felt at his heart; she shook her
head and moved ahead of us up the passage.

Still borne in the litters we went on, winding, ascending until at last they were set down
in a great hall carpeted with soft fragrant rushes and into which from high narrow slits streamed
the crimson light from without.

I jumped over to Larry, there had been no change in his condition; still the terrifying limpness,
the slow, infrequent pulsation. Rador and Olaf--and the fever now seemed to be gone from him--came
and stood beside me, silent.

"I go to the Three," said Lakla.  "Wait you here."  She passed through a curtaining; then as
swiftly as she had gone she returned through the hangings, tresses braided, a swathing of golden
gauze about her.

"Rador," she said, "bear you Larry--for into your heart the Silent Ones would look. And fear
nothing," she added at the green dwarf's disconcerted, almost fearful start.

Rador bowed, was thrust aside by Olaf.

"No," said the Norseman; "I will carry him."

He lifted Larry like a child against his broad breast.  The dwarf glanced quickly at Lakla;
she nodded.

"Come!" she commanded, and held aside the folds.

Of that journey I have few memories.  I only know that we went through corridor upon corridor;
successions of vast halls and chambers, some carpeted with the rushes, others with rugs into
which the feet sank as into deep, soft meadows; spaces illumined by the rubrous light, and
spaces in which softer lights held sway.

We paused before a slab of the same crimson stone as that the green dwarf had called the portal,
and upon its polished surface weaved the same unnameable symbols. The Golden Girl pressed upon
its side; it slipped softly back; a torrent of opalescence gushed out of the opening--and as
one in a dream I entered.

We were, I knew, just under the dome; but for the moment, caught in the flood of radiance,
I could see nothing. It was like being held within a fire opal--so brilliant, so flashing,
was it. I closed my eyes, opened them; the lambency cascaded from the vast curves of the globular
walls; in front of me was a long, narrow opening in them, through which, far away, I could
see the end of the wizards' bridge and the ledged mouth of the cavern through which we had
come; against the light from within beat the crimson light from without--and was checked as
though by a barrier.

I felt Lakla's touch; turned.

A hundred paces away was a dais, its rim raised a yard above the floor. From the edge of this
rim streamed upward a steady, coruscating mist of the opalescence, veined even as was that
of the Dweller's shining core and shot with milky shadows like curdled moonlight; up it stretched
like a wall.

Over it, from it, down upon me, gazed three faces--two clearly male, one a woman's. At the
first I thought them statues, and then the eyes of them gave the lie to me; for the eyes were
alive, terribly, and if I could admit the word--supernaturally--alive.

They were thrice the size of the human eye and triangular, the apex of the angle upward; black
as jet, pupilless, filled with tiny, leaping red flames.

Over them were foreheads, not as ours--high and broad and visored; their sides drawn forward
into a vertical ridge, a prominence, an upright wedge, somewhat like the visored heads of a
few of the great lizards--and the heads, long, narrowing at the back, were fully twice the
size of mankind's!

Upon the brows were caps--and with a fearful certainty I knew that they were not caps--long,
thick strands of gleaming yellow, feathered scales thin as sequins! Sharp, curving noses like
the beaks of the giant condors; mouths thin, austere; long, powerful, pointed chins; the--flesh--of
the faces white as the whitest marble; and wreathing up to them, covering all their bodies,
the shimmering, curdled, misty fires of opalescence!

Olaf stood rigid; my own heart leaped wildly.  What--what were these beings?

I forced myself to look again--and from their gaze streamed a current of reassurance, of good
will--nay, of intense spiritual strength. I saw that they were not fierce, not ruthless, not
inhuman, despite their strangeness; no, they were kindly; in some unmistakable way, benign
and sorrowful--so sorrowful! I straightened, gazed back at them fearlessly. Olaf drew a deep
breath, gazed steadily too, the hardness, the despair wiped from his face.

Now Lakla drew closer to the dais; the three pairs of eyes searched hers, the woman's with
an ineffable tenderness; some message seemed to pass between the Three and the Golden Girl.
She bowed low, turned to the Norseman.

"Place Larry there," she said softly--"there at the feet of the Silent Ones."

She pointed into the radiant mist; Olaf started, hesitated, stared from Lakla to the Three,
searched for a moment their eyes--and something like a smile drifted through them. He stepped
forward, lifted O'Keefe, set him squarely within the covering light. It wavered, rolled upward,
swirled about the body, steadied again--and within it there was no sign of Larry!

Again the mist wavered, shook, and seemed to climb higher, hiding the chins, the beaked noses,
the brows of that incredible Trinity--but before it ceased to climb, I thought the yellow feathered
heads bent; sensed a movement as though they lifted something.

The mist fell; the eyes gleamed out again, inscrutable.

And groping out of the radiance, pausing at the verge of the dais, leaping down from it, came
Larry, laughing, filled with life, blinking as one who draws from darkness into sunshine. He
saw Lakla, sprang to her, gripped her in his arms.

"Lakla!" he cried. "Mavourneen!"  She slipped from his embrace, blushing, glancing at the Three
shyly, half-fearfully. And again I saw the tenderness creep into the inky, flame-shot orbs
of the woman being; and a tenderness in the others too--as though they regarded some well-beloved
child.

"You lay in the arms of Death, Larry," she said.  "And the Silent Ones drew you from him. Do
homage to the Silent Ones, Larry, for they are good and they are mighty!"

She turned his head with one of the long, white hands--and he looked into the faces of the
Three; looked long, was shaken even as had been Olaf and myself; was swept by that same wave
of power and of--of--what can I call it?--holiness that streamed from them.

Then for the first time I saw real awe mount into his face. Another moment he stared--and dropped
upon one knee and bowed his head before them as would a worshipper before the shrine of his
saint. And--I am not ashamed to tell it--I joined him; and with us knelt Lakla and Olaf and Rador.

The mist of fiery opal swirled up about the Three; hid them.

And with a long, deep, joyous sigh Lakla took Larry's hand, drew him to his feet, and silently
we followed them out of that hall of wonder.

But why, in going, did the thought come to me that from where the Three sat throned they ever
watched the cavern mouth that was the door into their abode; and looked down ever into the
unfathomable depth in which glowed and pulsed that mystic flower, colossal, awesome, of green
flame that had seemed to me fire of life itself?

CHAPTER XXVI

The Wooing of Lakla

I had slept soundly and dreamlessly; I wakened quietly in the great chamber into which Rador
had ushered O'Keefe and myself after that culminating experience of crowded, nerve-racking
hours--the facing of the Three.

Now, lying gazing upward at the high-vaulted ceiling, I heard Larry's voice:

"They look like birds." Evidently he was thinking of the Three; a silence--then: "Yes, they
look like birds--and they look, and it's meaning no disrespect to them I am at all, they look
like lizards"--and another silence--"they look like some sort of gods, and, by the good sword-arm
of Brian Boru, they look human, too! And it's none of them they are either, so what--what the--what
the sainted St. Bridget are they?" Another short silence, and then in a tone of awed and absolute
conviction: "That's it, sure! That's what they are--it all hangs in--they couldn't be anything
else--"

He gave a whoop; a pillow shot over and caught me across the head.

"Wake up!" shouted Larry.  "Wake up, ye seething caldron of fossilized superstitions! Wake
up, ye bogy-haunted man of scientific unwisdom!"

Under pillow and insults I bounced to my feet, filled for a moment with quite real wrath; he
lay back, roaring with laughter, and my anger was swept away.

"Doc," he said, very seriously, after this, "I know who the Three are!"

"Yes?" I queried, with studied sarcasm.

"Yes?" he mimicked.  "Yes!  Ye--ye" He paused under the menace of my look, grinned. "Yes, I
know," he continued. "They're of the Tuatha De, the old ones, the great people of Ireland,
that's who they are!"

I knew, of course, of the Tuatha De Danann, the tribes of the god Danu, the half-legendary,
half-historical clan who found their home in Erin some four thousand years before the Christian
era, and who have left so deep an impress upon the Celtic mind and its myths.

"Yes," said Larry again, "the Tuatha De--the Ancient Ones who had spells that could compel
Mananan, who is the spirit of all the seas, an' Keithor, who is the god of all green living
things, an' even Hesus, the unseen god, whose pulse is the pulse of all the firmament; yes,
an' Orchil too, who sits within the earth an' weaves with the shuttle of mystery and her three
looms of birth an' life an' death--even Orchil would weave as they commanded!"

He was silent--then:

"They are of them--the mighty ones--why else would I have bent my knee to them as I would have
to the spirit of my dead mother? Why else would Lakla, whose gold-brown hair is the hair of
Eilidh the Fair, whose mouth is the sweet mouth of Deirdre, an' whose soul walked with mine
ages agone among the fragrant green myrtle of Erin, serve them?" he whispered, eyes full of dream.

"Have you any idea how they got here?" I asked, not unreasonably.

"I haven't thought about that," he replied somewhat testily.  "But at once, me excellent man
o' wisdom, a number occur to me. One of them is that this little party of three might have
stopped here on their way to Ireland, an' for good reasons of their own decided to stay a while;
an' another is that they might have come here afterward, havin' got wind of what those rats
out there were contemplatin', and have stayed on the job till the time was ripe to save Ireland
from 'em; the rest of the world, too, of course," he added magnanimously, "but Ireland in particular.
And do any of those reasons appeal to ye?"

I shook my head.

"Well, what do you think?" he asked wearily.

"I think," I said cautiously, "that we face an evolution of highly intelligent beings from
ancestral sources radically removed from those through which mankind ascended. These half-human,
highly developed batrachians they call the Akka prove that evolution in these caverned spaces
has certainly pursued one different path than on earth. The Englishman, Wells, wrote an imaginative
and very entertaining book concerning an invasion of earth by Martians, and he made his Martians
enormously specialized cuttlefish. There was nothing inherently improbable in Wells' choice.
Man is the ruling animal of earth today solely by reason of a series of accidents; under another
series spiders or ants, or even elephants, could have become the dominant race.

"I think," I said, even more cautiously, "that the race to which the Three belong never appeared
on earth's surface; that their development took place here, unhindered through aeons. And if
this be true, the structure of their brains, and therefore all their reactions, must be different
from ours. Hence their knowledge and command of energies unfamiliar to us--and hence also the
question whether they may not have an entirely different sense of values, of justice--and that
is rather terrifying," I concluded.

Larry shook his head.

"That last sort of knocks your argument, Doc," he said. "They had sense of justice enough to
help me out--and certainly they know love--for I saw the way they looked at Lakla; and sorrow--for
there was no mistaking that in their faces.

"No," he went on.  "I hold to my own idea.  They're of the Old People. The little leprechaun
knew his way here, an' I'll bet it was they who sent the word. An' if the O'Keefe banshee comes
here--which save the mark!--I'll bet she'll drop in on the Silent Ones for a social visit before
she an' her clan get busy. Well, it'll make her feel more at home, the good old body. No, Doc,
no," he concluded, "I'm right; it all fits in too well to be wrong."

I made a last despairing attempt.

"Is there anything anywhere in Ireland that would indicate that the Tuatha De ever looked like
the Three?" I asked--and again I had spoken most unfortunately.

"Is there?" he shouted.  "Is there?  By the kilt of Cormack MacCormack, I'm glad ye reminded
me. It was worryin' me a little meself. There was Daghda, who could put on the head of a great
boar an' the body of a giant fish and cleave the waves an' tear to pieces the birlins of any
who came against Erin; an' there was Rinn--"

How many more of the metamorphoses of the Old People I might have heard, I do not know, for
the curtains parted and in walked Rador.

"You have rested well," he smiled, "I can see.  The handmaiden bade me call you. You are to
eat with her in her garden."

Down long corridors we trod and out upon a gardened terrace as beautiful as any of those of
Yolara's city; bowered, blossoming, fragrant, set high upon the cliffs beside the domed castle.
A table, as of milky jade, was spread at one corner, but the Golden Girl was not there. A little
path ran on and up, hemmed in by the mass of verdure. I looked at it longingly; Rador saw the
glance, interpreted it, and led me up the stepped sharp slope into a rock embrasure.

Here I was above the foliage, and everywhere the view was clear. Below me stretched the incredible
bridge, with the frog people hurrying back and forth upon it. A pinnacle at my side hid the
abyss. My eyes followed the cavern ledge. Above it the rock rose bare, but at the ends of the
semicircular strand a luxuriant vegetation began, stretching from the crimson shores back into
far distances. Of browns and reds and yellows, like an autumn forest, was the foliage, with
here and there patches of dark-green, as of conifers. Five miles or more, on each side, the
forests swept, and then were lost to sight in the haze.

I turned and faced an immensity of crimson waters, unbroken, a true sea, if ever there was
one. A breeze blew--the first real wind I had encountered in the hidden places; under it the
surface, that had been as molten lacquer, rippled and dimpled. Little waves broke with a spray
of rose-pearls and rubies. The giant Medusae drifted--stately, luminous kaleidoscopic elfin moons.

Far down, peeping around a jutting tower of the cliff, I saw dipping with the motion of the
waves a floating garden. The flowers, too, were luminous--indeed sparkling--gleaming brilliants
of scarlet and vermilions lighter than the flood on which they lay, mauves and odd shades of
reddish-blue. They gleamed and shone like a little lake of jewels.

Rador broke in upon my musings.

"Lakla comes!  Let us go down."

It was a shy Lakla who came slowly around the end of the path and, blushing furiously, held
her hands out to Larry. And the Irishman took them, placed them over his heart, kissed them
with a tenderness that had been lacking in the half-mocking, half-fierce caresses he had given
the priestess. She blushed deeper, holding out the tapering fingers--then pressed them to her
own heart.

"I like the touch of your lips, Larry," she whispered. "They warm me here"--she pressed her
heart again--"and they send little sparkles of light through me." Her brows tilted perplexedly,
accenting the nuance of diablerie, delicate and fascinating, that they cast upon the flower face.

"Do you?" whispered the O'Keefe fervently.  "Do you, Lakla?" He bent toward her. She caught
the amused glance of Rador; drew herself aside half-haughtily.

"Rador," she said, "is it not time that you and the strong one, Olaf, were setting forth?"

"Truly it is, handmaiden," he answered respectfully enough--yet with a current of laughter
under his words. "But as you know the strong one, Olaf, wished to see his friends here before
we were gone--and he comes even now," he added, glancing down the pathway, along which came
striding the Norseman.

As he faced us I saw that a transformation had been wrought in him. Gone was the pitiful seeking,
and gone too the just as pitiful hope. The set face softened as he looked at the Golden Girl
and bowed low to her. He thrust a hand to O'Keefe and to me.

"There is to be battle," he said.  "I go with Rador to call the armies of these frog people.
As for me--Lakla has spoken. There is no hope for--for mine Helma in life, but there is hope
that we destroy the Shining Devil and give mine Helma peace. And with that I am well content,
ja! Well content!" He gripped our hands again. "We will fight!" he muttered. "Ja! And I will
have vengeance!" The sternness returned; and with a salute Rador and he were gone.

Two great tears rolled from the golden eyes of Lakla.

"Not even the Silent Ones can heal those the Shining One has taken," she said. "He asked me--and
it was better that I tell him. It is part of the Three's--punishment--but of that you will
soon learn," she went on hurriedly. "Ask me no questions now of the Silent Ones. I thought
it better for Olaf to go with Rador, to busy himself, to give his mind other than sorrow upon
which to feed."

Up the path came five of the frog-women, bearing platters and ewers. Their bracelets and anklets
of jewels were tinkling; their middles covered with short kirtles of woven cloth studded with
the sparkling ornaments.

And here let me say that if I have given the impression that the Akka are simply magnified
frogs, I regret it. Frog-like they are, and hence my phrase for them--but as unlike the frog,
as we know it, as man is unlike the chimpanzee. Springing, I hazard, from the stegocephalia,
the ancestor of the frogs, these batrachians followed a different line of evolution and acquired
the upright position just as man did his from the four-footed folk.

The great staring eyes, the shape of the muzzle were frog-like, but the highly developed brain
had set upon the head and shape of it vital differences. The forehead, for instance, was not
low, flat, and retreating--its frontal arch was well defined. The head was, in a sense, shapely,
and with the females the great horny carapace that stood over it like a fantastic helmet was
much modified, as were the spurs that were so formidable in the male; colouration was different
also. The torso was upright; the legs a little bent, giving them their crouching gait--but
I wander from my subject.[1]

They set their burdens down.  Larry looked at them with interest.

"You surely have those things well trained, Lakla," he said.

"Things!"  The handmaiden arose, eyes flashing with indignation.  "You call my Akka things!"

"Well," said Larry, a bit taken aback, "what do you call them?"

"My Akka are a people," she retorted.  "As much a people as your race or mine. They are good
and loyal, and they have speech and arts, and they slay not, save for food or to protect themselves.
And I think them beautiful, Larry, beautiful!" She stamped her foot. "And you call them--things!"

Beautiful!  These?  Yet, after all, they were, in their grotesque fashion. And to Lakla, surrounded
by them, from babyhood, they were not strange, at all. Why shouldn't she think them beautiful?
The same thought must have struck O'Keefe, for he flushed guiltily.

"I think them beautiful, too, Lakla," he said remorsefully. "It's my not knowing your tongue
too well that traps me. Truly, I think them beautiful--I'd tell them so, if I knew their talk."

Lakla dimpled, laughed--spoke to the attendants in that strange speech that was unquestionably
a language; they bridled, looked at O'Keefe with fantastic coquetry, cracked and boomed softly
among themselves.

"They say they like you better than the men of Muria," laughed Lakla.

"Did I ever think I'd be swapping compliments with lady frogs!" he murmured to me. "Buck up,
Larry--keep your eyes on the captive Irish princess!" he muttered to himself.

"Rador goes to meet one of the ladala who is slipping through with news," said the Golden Girl
as we addressed ourselves to the food. "Then, with Nak, he and Olaf go to muster the Akka--for
there will be battle, and we must prepare. Nak," she added, "is he who went before me when
you were dancing with Yolara, Larry." She stole a swift, mischievous glance at him. "He is
headman of all the Akka."

"Just what forces can we muster against them when they come, darlin'?" said Larry.

"Darlin'?"--the Golden Girl had caught the caress of the word--"what's that?"

"It's a little word that means Lakla," he answered.  "It does--that is, when I say it; when
you say it, then it means Larry."

"I like that word," mused Lakla.

"You can even say Larry darlin'!" suggested O'Keefe.

"Larry darlin'!" said Lakla.  "When they come we shall have first of all my Akka--"

"Can they fight, mavourneen?" interrupted Larry.

"Can they fight!  My Akka!" Again her eyes flashed.  "They will fight to the last of them--with
the spears that give the swift rotting, covered, as they are, with the jelly of those Saddu
there--" She pointed through a rift in the foliage across which, on the surface of the sea,
was floating one of the moon globes--and now I know why Rador had warned Larry against a plunge
there. "With spears and clubs and with teeth and nails and spurs--they are a strong and brave
people, Larry--darlin', and though they hurl the Keth at them, it is slow to work upon them,
and they slay even while they are passing into the nothingness!"

"And have we none of the Keth?" he asked.

"No"--she shook her head--"none of their weapons have we here, although it was--it was the
Ancient Ones who shaped them."

"But the Three are of the Ancient Ones?" I cried.  "Surely they can tell--"

"No," she said slowly.  "No--there is something you must know--and soon; and then the Silent
Ones say you will understand. You, especially, Goodwin, who worship wisdom."

"Then," said Larry, "we have the Akka; and we have the four men of us, and among us three guns
and about a hundred cartridges--an'--an' the power of the Three--but what about the Shining
One, Fireworks--"

"I do not know." Again the indecision that had been in her eyes when Yolara had launched her
defiance crept back. "The Shining One is strong--and he has his--slaves!"

"Well, we'd better get busy good and quick!" the O'Keefe's voice rang. But Lakla, for some
reason of her own, would pursue the matter no further. The trouble fled from her eyes--they danced.

"Larry darlin'?" she murmured.  "I like the touch of your lips--"

"You do?" he whispered, all thought flying of anything but the beautiful, provocative face
so close to his. "Then, acushla, you're goin' to get acquainted with 'em! Turn your head, Doc!"
he said.

And I turned it.  There was quite a long silence, broken by an interested, soft outburst of
gentle boomings from the serving frog-maids. I stole a glance behind me. Lakla's head lay on
the Irishman's shoulder, the golden eyes misty sunpools of love and adoration; and the O'Keefe,
a new look of power and strength upon his clear-cut features, was gazing down into them with
that look which rises only from the heart touched for the first time with that true, all-powerful
love, which is the pulse of the universe itself, the real music of the spheres of which Plato
dreamed, the love that is stronger than death itself, immortal as the high gods and the true
soul of all that mystery we call life.

Then Lakla raised her hands, pressed down Larry's head, kissed him between the eyes, drew herself
with a trembling little laugh from his embrace.

"The future Mrs. Larry O'Keefe, Goodwin," said Larry to me a little unsteadily.

I took their hands--and Lakla kissed me!

She turned to the booming--smiling--frog-maids; gave them some command, for they filed away
down the path. Suddenly I felt, well, a little superfluous.

"If you don't mind," I said, "I think I'll go up the path there again and look about."

But they were so engrossed with each other that they did not even hear me--so I walked away,
up to the embrasure where Rador had taken me. The movement of the batrachians over the bridge
had ceased. Dimly at the far end I could see the cluster of the garrison. My thoughts flew
back to Lakla and to Larry.

What was to be the end?

If we won, if we were able to pass from this place, could she live in our world? A product
of these caverns with their atmosphere and light that seemed in some subtle way to be both
food and drink--how would she react to the unfamiliar foods and air and light of outer earth?
Further, here so far as I was able to discover, there were no malignant bacilli--what immunity
could Lakla have then to those microscopic evils without, which only long ages of sickness
and death have bought for us a modicum of protection? I began to be oppressed. Surely they
had been long enough by themselves. I went down the path.

I heard Larry.

"It's a green land, mavourneen.  And the sea rocks and dimples around it--blue as the heavens,
green as the isle itself, and foam horses toss their white manes, and the great clean winds
blow over it, and the sun shines down on it like your eyes, acushla--"

"And are you a king of Ireland, Larry darlin'?" Thus Lakla--

But enough!

At last we turned to go--and around the corner of the path I caught another glimpse of what
I have called the lake of jewels. I pointed to it.

"Those are lovely flowers, Lakla," I said.  "I have never seen anything like them in the place
from whence we come."

She followed my pointing finger--laughed.

"Come," she said, "let me show you them."

She ran down an intersecting way, we following; came out of it upon a little ledge close to
the brink, three feet or more I suppose about it. The Golden Girl's voice rang out in a high-pitched,
tremulous, throbbing call.

The lake of jewels stirred as though a breeze had passed over it; stirred, shook, and then
began to move swiftly, a shimmering torrent of shining flowers down upon us! She called again,
the movement became more rapid; the gem blooms streamed closer--closer, wavering, shifting,
winding--at our very feet. Above them hovered a little radiant mist. The Golden Girl leaned
over; called softly, and up from the sparkling mass shot a green vine whose heads were five
flowers of flaming ruby--shot up, flew into her hand and coiled about the white arm, its quintette
of lambent blossoms--regarding us!

It was the thing Lakla had called the Yekta; that with which she had threatened the priestess;
the thing that carried the dreadful death--and the Golden Girl was handling it like a rose!

Larry swore--I looked at the thing more closely.  It was a hydroid, a development of that strange
animal-vegetable that, sometimes almost microscopic, waves in the sea depths like a cluster
of flowers paralyzing its prey with the mysterious force that dwells in its blossom heads![2]

"Put it down, Lakla," the distress in O'Keefe's voice was deep.  Lakla laughed mischievously,
caught the real fear for her in his eyes; opened her hand, gave another faint call--and back
it flew to its fellows.

"Why, it wouldn't hurt me, Larry!" she expostulated. "They know me!"

"Put it down!" he repeated hoarsely.

She sighed, gave another sweet, prolonged call.  The lake of gems--rubies and amethysts, mauves
and scarlet-tinged blues--wavered and shook even as it had before--and swept swiftly back to
that place whence she had drawn them!

Then, with Larry and Lakla walking ahead, white arm about his brown neck; the O'Keefe still
expostulating, the handmaiden laughing merrily, we passed through her bower to the domed castle.

Glancing through a cleft I caught sight again of the far end of the bridge; noted among the
clustered figures of its garrison of the frog-men a movement, a flashing of green fire like
marshlights on spear tips; wondered idly what it was, and then, other thoughts crowding in,
followed along, head bent, behind the pair who had found in what was Olaf's hell, their true
paradise.

[1] The Akka are viviparous.  The female produces progeny at five-year intervals, never more
than two at a time. They are monogamous, like certain of our own Ranidae. Pending my monograph
upon what little I had time to learn of their interesting habits and customs, the curious will
find instruction and entertainment in Brandes and Schvenichen's Brutpfleige der Schwanzlosen
Bat rachier, p. 395; and Lilian V. Sampson's Unusual Modes of Breeding among Anura, Amer. Nat.
xxxiv., 1900.--W. T. G.

[2] The Yekta of the Crimson Sea, are as extraordinary developments of hydroid forms as the
giant Medusae, of which, of course, they are not too remote cousins. The closest resemblances
to them in outer water forms are among the Gymnoblastic Hydroids, notably Clavetella prolifera,
a most interesting ambulatory form of six tentacles. Almost every bather in Southern waters,
Northern too, knows the pain that contact with certain "jelly fish" produces. The Yekta's development
was prodigious and, to us, monstrous. It secretes in its five heads an almost incredibly swiftly
acting poison which I suspect, for I had no chance to verify the theory, destroys the entire
nervous system to the accompaniment of truly infernal agony; carrying at the same time the
illusion that the torment stretches through infinities of time. Both ether and nitrous oxide
gas produce in the majority this sensation of time extension, without of course the pain symptom.
What Lakla called the Yekta kiss is I imagine about as close to the orthodox idea of Hell as
can be conceived. The secret of her control over them I had no opportunity of learning in the
rush of events that followed. Knowledge of the appalling effects of their touch came, she told
me, from those few "who had been kissed so lightly" that they recovered. Certainly nothing,
not even the Shining One, was dreaded by the Murians as these were--W. T. G.

CHAPTER XXVII

The Coming of Yolara

"Never was there such a girl!" Thus Larry, dreamily, leaning head in hand on one of the wide
divans of the chamber where Lakla had left us, pleading service to the Silent Ones.

"An', by the faith and the honour of the O'Keefes, an' by my dead mother's soul may God do
with me as I do by her!" he whispered fervently.

He relapsed into open-eyed dreaming.

I walked about the room, examining it--the first opportunity I had gained to inspect carefully
any of the rooms in the abode of the Three. It was octagonal, carpeted with the thick rugs
that seemed almost as though woven of soft mineral wool, faintly shimmering, palest blue. I
paced its diagonal; it was fifty yards; the ceiling was arched, and either of pale rose metal
or metallic covering; it collected the light from the high, slitted windows, and shed it, diffused,
through the room.

Around the octagon ran a low gallery not two feet from the floor, balustraded with slender
pillars, close set; broken at opposite curtained entrances over which hung thick, dull-gold
curtainings giving the same suggestion of metallic or mineral substance as the rugs. Set within
each of the eight sides, above the balcony, were colossal slabs of lapis lazuli, inset with
graceful but unplaceable designs in scarlet and sapphire blue.

There was the great divan on which mused Larry; two smaller ones, half a dozen low seats and
chairs carved apparently of ivory and of dull soft gold.

Most curious were tripods, strong, pikelike legs of golden metal four feet high, holding small
circles of the lapis with intaglios of one curious symbol somewhat resembling the ideographs
of the Chinese.

There was no dust--nowhere in these caverned spaces had I found this constant companion of
ours in the world overhead. My eyes caught a sparkle from a corner. Pursuing it I found upon
one of the low seats a flat, clear crystal oval, remarkably like a lens. I took it and stepped
up on the balcony. Standing on tiptoe I found I commanded from the bottom of a window slit
a view of the bridge approach. Scanning it I could see no trace of the garrison there, nor
of the green spear flashes. I placed the crystal to my eyes--and with a disconcerting abruptness
the cavern mouth leaped before me, apparently not a hundred feet away; decidedly the crystal
was a very excellent lens--but where were the guards?

I peered closely.  Nothing!  But now against the aperture I saw a score or more of tiny, dancing
sparks. An optical illusion, I thought, and turned the crystal in another direction. There
were no sparklings there. I turned it back again--and there they were. And what were they like?
Realization came to me--they were like the little, dancing, radiant atoms that had played for
a time about the emptiness where had stood Sorgar of the Lower Waters before he had been shaken
into the nothingness! And that green light I had noticed--the Keth!

A cry on my lips, I turned to Larry--and the cry died as the heavy curtainings at the entrance
on my right undulated, parted as though a body had slipped through, shook and parted again
and again--with the dreadful passing of unseen things!

"Larry!" I cried.  "Here!  Quick!"

He leaped to his feet, gazed about wildly--and disappeared! Yes--vanished from my sight like
the snuffed flame of a candle or as though something moving with the speed of light itself
had snatched him away!

Then from the divan came the sounds of struggle, the hissing of straining breaths, the noise
of Larry cursing. I leaped over the balustrade, drawing my own pistol--was caught in a pair
of mighty arms, my elbows crushed to my sides, drawn down until my face pressed close to a
broad, hairy breast--and through that obstacle--formless, shadowless, transparent as air itself--I
could still see the battle on the divan!

Now there were two sharp reports; the struggle abruptly ceased.  From a point not a foot over
the great couch, as though oozing from the air itself, blood began to drop, faster and ever
faster, pouring out of nothingness.

And out of that same air, now a dozen feet away, leaped the face of Larry--bodyless, poised
six feet above the floor, blazing with rage--floating weirdly, uncannily to a hideous degree,
in vacancy.

His hands flashed out--armless; they wavered, appearing, disappearing--swiftly tearing something
from him. Then there, feet hidden, stiff on legs that vanished at the ankles, striking out
into vision with all the dizzy abruptness with which he had been stricken from sight was the
O'Keefe, a smoking pistol in hand.

And ever that red stream trickled out of vacancy and spread over the couch, dripping to the floor.

I made a mighty movement to escape; was held more firmly--and then close to the face of Larry,
flashing out with that terrifying instantaneousness even as had his, was the head of Yolara,
as devilishly mocking as I had ever seen it, the cruelty shining through it like delicate white
flames from hell--and beautiful!

"Stir not!  Strike not--until I command!" She flung the words beyond her, addressed to the
invisible ones who had accompanied her; whose presences I sensed filling the chamber. The floating,
beautiful head, crowned high with corn-silk hair, darted toward the Irishman. He took a swift
step backward. The eyes of the priestess deepened toward purple; sparkled with malice.

"So," she said.  "So, Larree--you thought you could go from me so easily!" She laughed softly.
"In my hidden hand I hold the Keth cone," she murmured. "Before you can raise the death tube
I can smite you--and will. And consider, Larree, if the handmaiden, the choya comes, I can
vanish--so"--the mocking head disappeared, burst forth again--"and slay her with the Keth--or
bid my people seize her and bear her to the Shining One!"

Tiny beads of sweat stood out on O'Keefe's forehead, and I knew he was thinking not of himself,
but of Lakla.

"What do you want with me, Yolara?" he asked hoarsely.

"Nay," came the mocking voice.  "Not Yolara to you, Larree--call me by those sweet names you
taught me--Honey of the Wild Bee-e-s, Net of Hearts--" Again her laughter tinkled.

"What do you want with me?" his voice was strained, the lips rigid.

"Ah, you are afraid, Larree." There was diabolic jubilation in the words. "What should I want
but that you return with me? Why else did I creep through the lair of the dragon worm and pass
the path of perils but to ask you that? And the choya guards you not well." Again she laughed.
"We came to the cavern's end and, there were her Akka. And the Akka can see us--as shadows.
But it was my desire to surprise you with my coming, Larree," the voice was silken. "And I
feared that they would hasten to be first to bring you that message to delight in your joy.
And so, Larree, I loosed the Keth upon them--and gave them peace and rest within the nothingness.
And the portal below was open--almost in welcome!"

Once more the malignant, silver pealing of her laughter.

"What do you want with me?" There was wrath in his eyes, and plainly he strove for control.

"Want!" the silver voice hissed, grew calm.  "Do not Siya and Siyana grieve that the rite I
pledged them is but half done--and do they not desire it finished? And am I not beautiful?
More beautiful than your choya?"

The fiendishness died from the eyes; they grew blue, wondrous; the veil of invisibility slipped
down from the neck, the shoulders, half revealing the gleaming breasts. And weird, weird beyond
all telling was that exquisite head and bust floating there in air--and beautiful, sinisterly
beautiful beyond all telling, too. So even might Lilith, the serpent woman, have shown herself
tempting Adam!

"And perhaps," she said, "perhaps I want you because I hate you; perhaps because I love you--or
perhaps for Lugur or perhaps for the Shining One."

"And if I go with you?" He said it quietly.

"Then shall I spare the handmaiden--and--who knows?--take back my armies that even now gather
at the portal and let the Silent Ones rot in peace in their abode--from which they had no power
to keep me," she added venomously.

"You will swear that, Yolara; swear to go without harming the handmaiden?" he asked eagerly.
The little devils danced in her eyes. I wrenched my face from the smothering contact.

"Don't trust her, Larry!" I cried--and again the grip choked me.

"Is that devil in front of you or behind you, old man?" he asked quietly, eyes never leaving
the priestess. "If he's in front I'll take a chance and wing him--and then you scoot and warn
Lakla."

But I could not answer; nor, remembering Yolara's threat, would I, had I been able.

"Decide quickly!" There was cold threat in her voice.

The curtains toward which O'Keefe had slowly, step by step, drawn close, opened. They framed
the handmaiden! The face of Yolara changed to that gorgon mask that had transformed it once
before at sight of the Golden Girl. In her blind rage she forgot to cast the occulting veil.
Her hand darted like a snake out of the folds; poising itself with the little silver cone aimed
at Lakla.

But before it was wholly poised, before the priestess could loose its force, the handmaiden
was upon her. Swift as the lithe white wolf hound she leaped, and one slender hand gripped
Yolara's throat, the other the wrist that lifted the quivering death; white limbs wrapped about
the hidden ones, I saw the golden head bend, the hand that held the Keth swept up with a vicious
jerk; saw Lakla's teeth sink into the wrist--the blood spurt forth and heard the priestess
shriek. The cone fell, bounded toward me; with all my strength I wrenched free the hand that
held my pistol, thrust it against the pressing breast and fired.

The clasp upon me relaxed; a red rain stained me; at my feet a little pillar of blood jetted;
a hand thrust itself from nothingness, clawed--and was still.

Now Yolara was down, Lakla meshed in her writhings and fighting like some wild mother whose
babes are serpent menaced. Over the two of them, astride, stood the O'Keefe, a pike from one
of the high tripods in his hand--thrusting, parrying, beating on every side as with a broadsword
against poniard-clutching hands that thrust themselves out of vacancy striving to strike him;
stepping here and there, always covering, protecting Lakla with his own body even as a caveman
of old who does battle with his mate for their lives.

The sword-club struck--and on the floor lay the half body of a dwarf, writhing with vanishments
and reappearings of legs and arms. Beside him was the shattered tripod from which Larry had
wrenched his weapon. I flung myself upon it, dashed it down to break loose one of the remaining
supports, struck in midfall one of the unseen even as his dagger darted toward me! The seat
splintered, leaving in my clutch a golden bar. I jumped to Larry's side, guarding his back,
whirling it like a staff; felt it crunch once--twice--through unseen bone and muscle.

At the door was a booming.  Into the chamber rushed a dozen of the frog-men. While some guarded
the entrances, others leaped straight to us, and forming a circle about us began to strike
with talons and spurs at unseen things that screamed and sought to escape. Now here and there
about the blue rugs great stains of blood appeared; heads of dwarfs, torn arms and gashed bodies,
half occulted, half revealed. And at last the priestess lay silent, vanquished, white body
gleaming with that uncanny--fragmentariness--from her torn robes. Then O'Keefe reached down,
drew Lakla from her. Shakily, Yolara rose to her feet. The handmaiden, face still blazing with
wrath, stepped before her; with difficulty she steadied her voice.

"Yolara," she said, "you have defied the Silent Ones, you have desecrated their abode, you
came to slay these men who are the guests of the Silent Ones and me, who am their handmaiden--why
did you do these things?"

"I came for him!" gasped the priestess; she pointed to O'Keefe.

"Why?" asked Lakla.

"Because he is pledged to me," replied Yolara, all the devils that were hers in her face. "Because
he wooed me! Because he is mine!"

"That is a lie!" The handmaiden's voice shook with rage. "It is a lie! But here and now he
shall choose, Yolara. And if you he choose, you and he shall go forth from here unmolested--for
Yolara, it is his happiness that I most desire, and if you are that happiness--you shall go
together. And now, Larry, choose!"

Swiftly she stepped beside the priestess; swiftly wrenched the last shreds of the hiding robes
from her.

There they stood--Yolara with but the filmiest net of gauze about her wonderful body; gleaming
flesh shining through it; serpent woman---and wonderful, too, beyond the dreams even of Phidias--and
hell-fire glowing from the purple eyes.

And Lakla, like a girl of the Vikings, like one of those warrior maids who stood and fought
for dun and babes at the side of those old heroes of Larry's own green isle; translucent ivory
lambent through the rents of her torn draperies, and in the wide, golden eyes flaming wrath,
indeed--not the diabolic flames of the priestess but the righteous wrath of some soul that
looking out of paradise sees vile wrong in the doing.

"Lakla," the O'Keefe's voice was subdued, hurt, "there is no choice. I love you and only you--and
have from the moment I saw you. It's not easy--this. God, Goodwin, I feel like an utter cad,"
he flashed at me. "There is no choice, Lakla," he ended, eyes steady upon hers.

The priestess's face grew deadlier still.

"What will you do with me?" she asked.

"Keep you," I said, "as hostage."

O'Keefe was silent; the Golden Girl shook her head.

"Well would I like to," her face grew dreaming; "but the Silent Ones say--no; they bid me let
you go, Yolara--"

"The Silent Ones," the priestess laughed. "You, Lakla! You fear, perhaps, to let me tarry here
too close!"

Storm gathered again in the handmaiden's eyes; she forced it back.

"No," she answered, "the Silent Ones so command--and for their own purposes. Yet do I think,
Yolara, that you will have little time to feed your wickedness--tell that to Lugur--and to
your Shining One!" she added slowly.

Mockery and disbelief rode high in the priestess's pose. "Am I to return alone--like this?"
she asked.

"Nay, Yolara, nay; you shall be accompanied," said Lakla; "and by those who will guard--and
watch--you well. They are here even now."

The hangings parted, and into the chamber came Olaf and Rador.

The priestess met the fierce hatred and contempt in the eyes of the Norseman--and for the first
time lost her bravado.

"Let not him go with me," she gasped--her eyes searched the floor frantically.

"He goes with you," said Lakla, and threw about Yolara a swathing that covered the exquisite,
alluring body. "And you shall pass through the Portal, not skulk along the path of the worm!"

She bent to Rador, whispered to him; he nodded; she had told him, I supposed, the secret of
its opening.

"Come," he said, and with the ice-eyed giant behind her, Yolara, head bent, passed out of those
hangings through which, but a little before, unseen, triumph in her grasp, she had slipped.

Then Lakla came to the unhappy O'Keefe, rested her hands on his shoulders, looked deep into
his eyes.

"Did you woo her, even as she said?" she asked.

The Irishman flushed miserably.

"I did not," he said.  "I was pleasant to her, of course, because I thought it would bring
me quicker to you, darlin'."

She looked at him doubtfully; then--

"I think you must have been very--pleasant!" was all she said--and leaning, kissed him forgivingly
straight on the lips. An extremely direct maiden was Lakla, with a truly sovereign contempt
for anything she might consider non-essentials; and at this moment I decided she was wiser
even than I had thought her.

He stumbled, feet vanishing; reached down and picked up something that in the grasping turned
his hand to air.

"One of the invisible cloaks," he said to me.  "There must be quite a lot of them about--I
guess Yolara brought her full staff of murderers. They're a bit shopworn, probably--but we're
considerably better off with 'em in our hands than in hers. And they may come in handy--who knows?"

There was a choking rattle at my feet; half the head of a dwarf raised out of vacancy; beat
twice upon the floor in death throes; fell back. Lakla shivered; gave a command. The frog-men
moved about; peering here and there; lifting unseen folds revealing in stark rigidity torn
form after form of the priestess's men.

Lakla had been right--her Akka were thorough fighters!

She called, and to her came the frog-woman who was her attendant.  To her the handmaiden spoke,
pointing to the batrachians who stood, paws and forearms melted beneath the robes they had
gathered. She took them and passed out--more grotesque than ever, shattering into streaks of
vacancies, reappearing with flickers of shining scale and yellow gems as the tattered pennants
of invisibility fluttered about her.

The frog-men reached down, swung each a dead dwarf in his arms, and filed, booming triumphantly
away.

And then I remembered the cone of the Keth which had slipped from Yolara's hand; knew it had
been that for which her wild eyes searched. But look as closely as we might, search in every
nook and corner as we did, we could not find it. Had the dying hand of one of her men clutched
it and had it been borne away with them? With the thought Larry and I raced after the scaled
warriors, searched every body they carried. It was not there. Perhaps the priestess had found
it, retrieved it swiftly without our seeing.

Whatever was true--the cone was gone.  And what a weapon that one little holder of the shaking
death would have been for us!

CHAPTER XXVIII

In the Lair of the Dweller

It is with marked hesitation that I begin this chapter, because in it I must deal with an experience
so contrary to every known law of physics as to seem impossible. Until this time, barring,
of course, the mystery of the Dweller, I had encountered nothing that was not susceptible of
naturalistic explanation; nothing, in a word, outside the domain of science itself; nothing
that I would have felt hesitancy in reciting to my colleagues of the International Association
of Science. Amazing, unfamiliar--advanced--as many of the phenomena were, still they lay well
within the limits of what we have mapped as the possible; in regions, it is true, still virgin
to the mind of man, but toward which that mind is steadily advancing.

But this--well, I confess that I have a theory that is naturalistic; but so abstruse, so difficult
to make clear within the short confines of the space I have to give it, so dependent upon conceptions
that even the highest-trained scientific brains find difficult to grasp, that I despair.

I can only say that the thing occurred; that it took place in precisely the manner I am about
to narrate, and that I experienced it.

Yet, in justice to myself, I must open up some paths of preliminary approach toward the heart
of the perplexity. And the first path is the realization that our world whatever it is, is
certainly not the world as we see it! Regarding this I shall refer to a discourse upon "Gravitation
and the Principle of Relativity," by the distinguished English physicist, Dr. A. S. Eddington,
which I had the pleasure of hearing him deliver before the Royal Institution.[1]

I realize, of course, that it is not true logic to argue--"The world is not as we think it
is--therefore everything we think impossible is possible in it." Even if it be different, it
is governed by law. The truly impossible is that which is outside law, and as nothing can be
outside law, the impossible cannot exist.

The crux of the matter then becomes our determination whether what we think is impossible may
or may not be possible under laws still beyond our knowledge.

I hope that you will pardon me for this somewhat academic digression, but I felt it was necessary,
and it has, at least, put me more at ease. And now to resume.

We had watched, Larry and I, the frog-men throw the bodies of Yolara's assassins into the crimson
waters. As vultures swoop down upon the dying, there came sailing swiftly to where the dead
men floated, dozens of the luminous globes. Their slender, varicoloured tentacles whipped out;
the giant iridescent bubbles climbed over the cadavers. And as they touched them there was
the swift dissolution, the melting away into putrescence of flesh and bone that I had witnessed
when the dart touched fruit that time I had saved Rador--and upon this the Medusae gorged;
pulsing lambently; their wondrous colours shifting, changing, glowing stronger; elfin moons
now indeed, but satellites whose glimmering beauty was fed by death; alembics of enchantment
whose glorious hues were sucked from horror.

Sick, I turned away--O'Keefe as pale as I; passed back into the corridor that had opened on
the ledge from which we had watched; met Lakla hurrying toward us. Before she could speak there
throbbed faintly about us a vast sighing. It grew into a murmur, a whispering, shook us--then
passing like a presence, died away in far distance.

"The Portal has opened," said the handmaiden.  A fainter sighing, like an echo of the other,
mourned about us. "Yolara is gone," she said, "the Portal is closed. Now must we hasten--for
the Three have commanded that you, Goodwin, and Larry and I tread that strange road of which
I have spoken, and which Olaf may not take lest his heart break--and we must return ere he
and Rador cross the bridge."

Her hand sought Larry's.

"Come!" said Lakla, and we walked on; down and down through hall after hall, flight upon flight
of stairways. Deep, deep indeed, we must be beneath the domed castle--Lakla paused before a
curved, smooth breast of the crimson stone rounding gently into the passage. She pressed its
side; it revolved; we entered; it closed behind us.

The room, the--hollow--in which we stood was faceted like a diamond; and like a cut brilliant
its sides glistened--though dully. Its shape was a deep oval, and our path dropped down to
a circular polished base, roughly two yards in diameter. Glancing behind me I saw that in the
closing of the entrance there had been left no trace of it save the steps that led from where
that entrance had been--and as I looked these steps turned, leaving us isolated upon the circle,
only the faceted walls about us--and in each of the gleaming faces the three of us reflected--dimly.
It was as though we were within a diamond egg whose graven angles had been turned inward.

But the oval was not perfect; at my right a screen cut it--a screen that gleamed with fugitive,
fleeting luminescences--stretching from the side of our standing place up to the tip of the
chamber; slightly convex and crisscrossed by millions of fine lines like those upon a spectroscopic
plate, but with this difference--that within each line I sensed the presence of multitudes
of finer lines, dwindling into infinitude, ultramicroscopic, traced by some instrument compared
to whose delicacy our finest tool would be as a crowbar to the needle of a micrometer.

A foot or two from it stood something like the standee of a compass, bearing, like it a cradled
dial under whose crystal ran concentric rings of prisoned, lambent vapours, faintly blue. From
the edge of the dial jutted a little shelf of crystal, a keyboard, in which were cut eight
small cups.

Within these cups the handmaiden placed her tapering fingers.  She gazed down upon the disk;
pressed a digit--and the screen behind us slipped noiselessly into another angle.

"Put your arm around my waist, Larry, darlin', and stand close," she murmured. "You, Goodwin,
place your arm over my shoulder."

Wondering, I did as she bade; she pressed other fingers upon the shelf's indentations--three
of the rings of vapour spun into intense light, raced around each other; from the screen behind
us grew a radiance that held within itself all spectrums--not only those seen, but those unseen
by man's eyes. It waxed brilliant and ever more brilliant, all suffusing, passing through me
as day streams through a window pane!

The enclosing facets burst into a blaze of coruscations, and in each sparkling panel I saw
our images, shaken and torn like pennants in a whirlwind. I turned to look--was stopped by
the handmaiden's swift command: "Turn not--on your life!"

The radiance behind me grew; was a rushing tempest of light in which I was but the shadow of
a shadow. I heard, but not with my ears--nay with mind itself--a vast roaring; an ordered tumult
of sound that came hurling from the outposts of space; approaching--rushing--hurricane out
of the heart of the cosmos--closer, closer. It wrapped itself about us with unearthly mighty arms.

And brilliant, ever more brilliant, streamed the radiance through us.

The faceted walls dimmed; in front of me they melted, diaphanously, like a gelatinous wall
in a blast of flame; through their vanishing, under the torrent of driving light, the unthinkable,
impalpable tornado, I began to move, slowly--then ever more swiftly!

Still the roaring grew; the radiance streamed--ever faster we went. Cutting down through the
length, the extension of me, dropped a wall of rock, foreshortened, clenched close; I caught
a glimpse of the elfin gardens; they whirled, contracted, into a thin--slice--of colour that
was a part of me; another wall of rock shrinking into a thin wedge through which I flew, and
that at once took its place within me like a card slipped beside those others!

Flashing around me, and from Lakla and O'Keefe, were nimbuses of flickering scarlet flames.
And always the steady hurling forward--appallingly mechanical.

Another barrier of rock--a gleam of white waters incorporating themselves into my--drawing
out--even as were the flowered moss lands, the slicing, rocky walls--still another rampart
of cliff, dwindling instantly into the vertical plane of those others. Our flight checked;
we seemed to hover within, then to sway onward--slowly, cautiously.

A mist danced ahead of me--a mist that grew steadily thinner.  We stopped, wavered--the mist
cleared.

I looked out into translucent, green distances; shot with swift prismatic gleamings; waves
and pulsings of luminosity like midday sun glow through green, tropic waters: dancing, scintillating
veils of sparkling atoms that flew, hither and yon, through depths of nebulous splendour!

And Lakla and Larry and I were, I saw, like shadow shapes upon a smooth breast of stone twenty
feet or more above the surface of this place--a surface spangled with tiny white blossoms gleaming
wanly through creeping veils of phosphorescence like smoke of moon fire. We were shadows--and
yet we had substance; we were incorporated with, a part of, the rock--and yet we were living
flesh and blood; we stretched--nor will I qualify this--we stretched through mile upon mile
of space that weirdly enough gave at one and the same time an absolute certainty of immense
horizontal lengths and a vertical concentration that contained nothing of length, nothing of
space whatever; we stood there upon the face of the stone--and still we were here within the
faceted oval before the screen of radiance!

"Steady!" It was Lakla's voice--and not beside me there, but at my ear close before the screen.
"Steady, Goodwin! And--see!"

The sparkling haze cleared.  Enormous reaches stretched before me. Shimmering up through them,
and as though growing in some medium thicker than air, was mass upon mass of verdure--fruiting
trees and trees laden with pale blossoms, arbours and bowers of pallid blooms, like that sea
fruit of oblivion--grapes of Lethe--that cling to the tide-swept walls of the caverns of the
Hebrides.

Through them, beyond them, around and about them, drifted and eddied a horde--great as that
with which Tamerlane swept down upon Rome, vast as the myriads which Genghis Khan rolled upon
the califs--men and women and children--clothed in tatters, half nude and wholly naked; slant-eyed
Chinese, sloe-eyed Malays, islanders black and brown and yellow, fierce-faced warriors of the
Solomons with grizzled locks fantastically bedizened; Papuans, feline Javans, Dyaks of hill
and shore; hook-nosed Phoenicians, Romans, straight-browed Greeks, and Vikings centuries beyond
their lives: scores of the black-haired Murians; white faces of our own Westerners--men and
women and children--drifting, eddying--each stamped with that mingled horror and rapture, eyes
filled with ecstasy and terror entwined, marked by God and devil in embrace--the seal of the
Shining One--the dead-alive; the lost ones!

The loot of the Dweller!

Soul-sick, I gazed.  They lifted to us visages of dread; they swept down toward us, glaring
upward--a bank against which other and still other waves of faces rolled, were checked, paused;
until as far as I could see, like billows piled upon an ever-growing barrier, they stretched
beneath us--staring--staring!

Now there was a movement--far, far away; a concentrating of the lambency; the dead-alive swayed,
oscillated, separated--forming a long lane against whose outskirts they crowded with avid,
hungry insistence.

First only a luminous cloud, then a whirling pillar of splendours through the lane came--the
Shining One. As it passed, the dead-alive swirled in its wake like leaves behind a whirlwind,
eddying, twisting; and as the Dweller raced by them, brushing them with its spirallings and
tentacles, they shone forth with unearthly, awesome gleamings--like vessels of alabaster in
which wicks flare suddenly. And when it had passed they closed behind it, staring up at us
once more.

The Dweller paused beneath us.

Out of the drifting ruck swam the body of Throckmartin! Throckmartin, my friend, to find whom
I had gone to the pallid moon door; my friend whose call I had so laggardly followed. On his
face was the Dweller's dreadful stamp; the lips were bloodless; the eyes were wide, lucent,
something like pale, phosphorescence gleaming within them--and soulless.

He stared straight up at me, unwinking, unrecognizing. Pressing against his side was a woman,
young and gentle, and lovely--lovely even through the mask that lay upon her face. And her
wide eyes, like Throckmartin's, glowed with the lurking, unholy fires. She pressed against
him closely; though the hordes kept up the faint churning, these two kept ever together, as
though bound by unseen fetters.

And I knew the girl for Edith, his wife, who in vain effort to save him had cast herself into
the Dweller's embrace!

"Throckmartin!" I cried.  "Throckmartin!  I'm here!"

Did he hear?  I know now, of course, he could not.

But then I waited--hope striving to break through the nightmare hands that gripped my heart.

Their wide eyes never left me.  There was another movement about them, others pushed past them;
they drifted back, swaying, eddying--and still staring were lost in the awful throng.

Vainly I strained my gaze to find them again, to force some sign of recognition, some awakening
of the clean life we know. But they were gone. Try as I would I could not see them--nor Stanton
and the northern woman named Thora who had been the first of that tragic party to be taken
by the Dweller.

"Throckmartin!" I cried again, despairingly.  My tears blinded me.

I felt Lakla's light touch.

"Steady," she commanded, pitifully.  "Steady, Goodwin. You cannot help them--now! Steady and--watch!"

Below us the Shining One had paused--spiralling, swirling, vibrant with all its transcendent,
devilish beauty; had paused and was contemplating us. Now I could see clearly that nucleus,
that core shot through with flashing veins of radiance, that ever-shifting shape of glory through
the shroudings of shimmering, misty plumes, throbbing lacy opalescences, vaporous spirallings
of prismatic phantom fires. Steady over it hung the seven little moons of amethyst, of saffron,
of emerald and azure and silver, of rose of life and moon white. They poised themselves like
a diadem--calm, serene, immobile--and down from them into the Dweller, piercing plumes and
swirls and spirals, ran countless tiny strands, radiations, finer than the finest spun thread
of spider's web, gleaming filaments through which seemed to run--power--from the seven globes;
like--yes, that was it--miniatures of the seven torrents of moon flame that poured through
the septichromatic, high crystals in the Moon Pool's chamber roof.

Swam out of the coruscating haze the--face!

Both of man and of woman it was--like some ancient, androgynous deity of Etruscan fanes long
dust, and yet neither woman nor man; human and unhuman, seraphic and sinister, benign and malefic--and
still no more of these four than is flame, which is beautiful whether it warms or devours,
or wind whether it feathers the trees or shatters them, or the wave which is wondrous whether
it caresses or kills.

Subtly, undefinably it was of our world and of one not ours.  Its lineaments flowed from another
sphere, took fleeting familiar form--and as swiftly withdrew whence they had come; something
amorphous, unearthly--as of unknown unheeding, unseen gods rushing through the depths of star-hung
space; and still of our own earth, with the very soul of earth peering out from it, caught
within it--and in some--unholy--way debased.

It had eyes--eyes that were now only shadows darkening within its luminosity like veils falling,
and falling, opening windows into the unknowable; deepening into softly glowing blue pools,
blue as the Moon Pool itself; then flashing out, and this only when the--face--bore its most
human resemblance, into twin stars large almost as the crown of little moons; and with that
same baffling suggestion of peep-holes into a world untrodden, alien, perilous to man!

"Steady!" came Lakla's voice, her body leaned against mine.

I gripped myself, my brain steadied, I looked again.  And I saw that of body, at least body
as we know it, the Shining One had none--nothing but the throbbing, pulsing core streaked with
lightning veins of rainbows; and around this, never still, sheathing it, the swirling, glorious
veilings of its hell and heaven born radiance.

So the Dweller stood--and gazed.

Then up toward us swept a reaching, questing spiral!

Under my hand Lakla's shoulder quivered; dead-alive and their master vanished--I danced, flickered,
within the rock; felt a swift sense of shrinking, of withdrawal; slice upon slice the carded
walls of stone, of silvery waters, of elfin gardens slipped from me as cards are withdrawn
from a pack, one by one--slipped, wheeled, flattened, and lengthened out as I passed through
them and they passed from me.

Gasping, shaken, weak, I stood within the faceted oval chamber; arm still about the handmaiden's
white shoulder; Larry's hand still clutching her girdle.

The roaring, impalpable gale from the cosmos was retreating to the outposts of space--was still;
the intense, streaming, flooding radiance lessened--died.

"Now have you beheld," said Lakla, "and well you trod the road.  And now shall you hear, even
as the Silent Ones have commanded, what the Shining One is--and how it came to be."

The steps flashed back; the doorway into the chamber opened.

Larry as silent as I--we followed her through it.

[1] Reprinted in full in Nature, in which those sufficiently interested may peruse it.--W. T. G.

CHAPTER XXIX

The Shaping of the Shining One

We reached what I knew to be Lakla's own boudoir, if I may so call it. Smaller than any of
the other chambers of the domed castle in which we had been, its intimacy was revealed not
only by its faint fragrance but by its high mirrors of polished silver and various oddly wrought
articles of the feminine toilet that lay here and there; things I afterward knew to be the
work of the artisans of the Akka--and no mean metal workers were they. One of the window slits
dropped almost to the floor, and at its base was a wide, comfortably cushioned seat commanding
a view of the bridge and of the cavern ledge. To this the handmaiden beckoned us; sank upon
it, drew Larry down beside her and motioned me to sit close to him.

"Now this," she said, "is what the Silent Ones have commanded me to tell you two: To you Larry,
that knowing you may weigh all things in your mind and answer as your spirit bids you a question
that the Three will ask--and what that is I know not," she murmured, "and I, they say, must
answer, too--and it--frightens me!"

The great golden eyes widened; darkened with dread; she sighed, shook her head impatiently.

"Not like us, and never like us," she spoke low, wonderingly, "the Silent Ones say were they.
Nor were those from which they sprang like those from which we have come. Ancient, ancient
beyond thought are the Taithu, the race of the Silent Ones. Far, far below this place where
now we sit, close to earth heart itself were they born; and there they dwelt for time upon
time, laya upon laya upon laya--with others, not like them, some of which have vanished time
upon time agone, others that still dwell--below--in their--cradle.

"It is hard"--she hesitated--"hard to tell this--that slips through my mind--because I know
so little that even as the Three told it to me it passed from me for lack of place to stand
upon," she went on, quaintly. "Something there was of time when earth and sun were but cold
mists in the--the heavens--something of these mists drawing together, whirling, whirling, faster
and faster--drawing as they whirled more and more of the mists--growing larger, growing warm--forming
at last into the globes they are, with others spinning around the sun--something of regions
within this globe where vast fire was prisoned and bursting forth tore and rent the young orb--of
one such bursting forth that sent what you call moon flying out to company us and left behind
those spaces whence we now dwell--and of--of life particles that here and there below grew
into the race of the Silent Ones, and those others--but not the Akka which, like you, they
say came from above--and all this I do not understand--do you, Goodwin?" she appealed to me.

I nodded--for what she had related so fragmentarily was in reality an excellent approach to
the Chamberlain-Moulton theory of a coalescing nebula contracting into the sun and its planets.

Astonishing was the recognition of this theory.  Even more so was the reference to the life
particles, the idea of Arrhenius, the great Swede, of life starting on earth through the dropping
of minute, life spores, propelled through space by the driving power of light and, encountering
favourable environment here, developing through the vast ages into man and every other living
thing we know.[1]

Nor was it incredible that in the ancient nebula that was the matrix of our solar system similar,
or rather dissimilar, particles in all but the subtle essence we call life, might have become
entangled and, resisting every cataclysm as they had resisted the absolute zero of outer space,
found in these caverned spaces their proper environment to develop into the race of the Silent
Ones and--only they could tell what else!

"They say," the handmaiden's voice was surer, "they say that in their--cradle--near earth's
heart they grew; grew untroubled by the turmoil and disorder which flayed the surface of this
globe. And they say it was a place of light and that strength came to them from earth heart--strength
greater than you and those from which you sprang ever derived from sun.

"At last, ancient, ancient beyond all thought, they say again, was this time--they began to
know, to--to--realize--themselves. And wisdom came ever more swiftly. Up from their cradle,
because they did not wish to dwell longer with those--others--they came and found this place.

"When all the face of earth was covered with waters in which lived only tiny, hungry things
that knew naught save hunger and its satisfaction, they had attained wisdom that enabled them
to make paths such as we have just travelled and to look out upon those waters! And laya upon
laya thereafter, time upon time, they went upon the paths and watched the flood recede; saw
great bare flats of steaming ooze appear on which crawled and splashed larger things which
had grown from the tiny hungry ones; watched the flats rise higher and higher and green life
begin to clothe them; saw mountains uplift and vanish.

"Ever the green life waxed and the things which crept and crawled grew greater and took ever
different forms; until at last came a time when the steaming mists lightened and the things
which had begun as little more than tiny hungry mouths were huge and monstrous, so huge that
the tallest of my Akka would not have reached the knee of the smallest of them.

"But in none of these, in none, was there--realization--of themselves, say the Three; naught
but hunger driving, always driving them to still its crying.

"So for time upon time the race of the Silent Ones took the paths no more, placing aside the
half-thought that they had of making their way to earth face even as they had made their way
from beside earth heart. They turned wholly to the seeking of wisdom--and after other time
on time they attained that which killed even the faintest shadow of the half-thought. For they
crept far within the mysteries of life and death, they mastered the illusion of space, they
lifted the veils of creation and of its twin destruction, and they stripped the covering from
the flaming jewel of truth--but when they had crept within those mysteries they bid me tell
you, Goodwin, they found ever other mysteries veiling the way; and after they had uncovered
the jewel of truth they found it to be a gem of infinite facets and therefore not wholly to
be read before eternity's unthinkable end!

"And for this they were glad--because now throughout eternity might they and theirs pursue
knowledge over ways illimitable.

"They conquered light--light that sprang at their bidding from the nothingness that gives birth
to all things and in which lie all things that are, have been and shall be; light that streamed
through their bodies cleansing them of all dross; light that was food and drink; light that
carried their vision afar or bore to them images out of space opening many windows through
which they gazed down upon life on thousands upon thousands of the rushing worlds; light that
was the flame of life itself and in which they bathed, ever renewing their own. They set radiant
lamps within the stones, and of black light they wove the sheltering shadows and the shadows
that slay.

"Arose from this people those Three--the Silent Ones. They led them all in wisdom so that in
the Three grew--pride. And the Three built them this place in which we sit and set the Portal
in its place and withdrew from their kind to go alone into the mysteries and to map alone the
facets of Truth Jewel.

"Then there came the ancestors of the--Akka; not as they are now, and glowing but faintly within
them the spark of--self-realization. And the Taithu seeing this spark did not slay them. But
they took the ancient, long untrodden paths and looked forth once more upon earth face. Now
on the land were vast forests and a chaos of green life. On the shores things scaled and fanged,
fought and devoured each other, and in the green life moved bodies great and small that slew
and ran from those that would slay.

"They searched for the passage through which the Akka had come and closed it. Then the Three
took them and brought them here; and taught them and blew upon the spark until it burned ever
stronger and in time they became much as they are now--my Akka.

"The Three took counsel after this and said--'We have strengthened life in these until it has
become articulate; shall we not create life?'" Again she hesitated, her eyes rapt, dreaming.
"The Three are speaking," she murmured. "They have my tongue--"

And certainly, with an ease and rapidity as though she were but a voice through which minds
far more facile, more powerful poured their thoughts, she spoke.

"Yea," the golden voice was vibrant.  "We said that what we would create should be of the spirit
of life itself, speaking to us with the tongues of the far-flung stars, of the winds, of the
waters, and of all upon and within these. Upon that universal matrix of matter, that mother
of all things that you name the ether, we laboured. Think not that her wondrous fertility is
limited by what ye see on earth or what has been on earth from its beginning. Infinite, infinite
are the forms the mother bears and countless are the energies that are part of her.

"By our wisdom we had fashioned many windows out of our abode and through them we stared into
the faces of myriads of worlds, and upon them all were the children of ether even as the worlds
themselves were her children.

"Watching we learned, and learning we formed that ye term the Dweller, which those without
name--the Shining One. Within the Universal Mother we shaped it, to be a voice to tell us her
secrets, a lamp to go before us lighting the mysteries. Out of the ether we fashioned it, giving
it the soul of light that still ye know not nor perhaps ever may know, and with the essence
of life that ye saw blossoming deep in the abyss and that is the pulse of earth heart we filled
it. And we wrought with pain and with love, with yearning and with scorching pride and from
our travail came the Shining One--our child!

"There is an energy beyond and above ether, a purposeful, sentient force that laps like an
ocean the furthest-flung star, that transfuses all that ether bears, that sees and speaks and
feels in us and in you, that is incorporate in beast and bird and reptile, in tree and grass
and all living things, that sleeps in rock and stone, that finds sparkling tongue in jewel
and star and in all dwellers within the firmament. And this ye call consciousness!

"We crowned the Shining One with the seven orbs of light which are the channels between it
and the sentience we sought to make articulate, the portals through which flow its currents
and so flowing, become choate, vocal, self-realizant within our child.

"But as we shaped, there passed some of the essence of our pride; in giving will we had given
power, perforce, to exercise that will for good or for evil, to speak or to be silent, to tell
us what we wished of that which poured into it through the seven orbs or to withhold that knowledge
itself; and in forging it from the immortal energies we had endowed it with their indifference;
open to all consciousness it held within it the pole of utter joy and the pole of utter woe
with all the arc that lies between; all the ecstasies of the countless worlds and suns and
all their sorrows; all that ye symbolize as gods and all ye symbolize as devils--not negativing
each other, for there is no such thing as negation, but holding them together, balancing them,
encompassing them, pole upon pole!"

So this was the explanation of the entwined emotions of joy and terror that had changed so
appallingly Throckmartin's face and the faces of all the Dweller's slaves!

The handmaiden's eyes grew bright, alert, again; the brooding passed from her face; the golden
voice that had been so deep found its own familiar pitch.

"I listened while the Three spoke to you," she said.  "Now the shaping of the Shining One had
been a long, long travail and time had flown over the outer world laya upon laya. For a space
the Shining One was content to dwell here; to be fed with the foods of light: to open the eyes
of the Three to mystery upon mystery and to read for them facet after facet of the gem of truth.
Yet as the tides of consciousness flowed through it they left behind shadowings and echoes
of their burdens; and the Shining One grew stronger, always stronger of itself within itself.
Its will strengthened and now not always was it the will of the Three; and the pride that was
woven in the making of it waxed, while the love for them that its creators had set within it waned.

"Not ignorant were the Taithu of the work of the Three. First there were a few, then more and
more who coveted the Shining One and who would have had the Three share with them the knowledge
it drew in for them. But the Silent Ones in their pride, would not.

"There came a time when its will was now all its own, and it rebelled, turning its gaze to
the wider spaces beyond the Portal, offering itself to the many there who would serve it; tiring
of the Three, their control and their abode.

"Now the Shining One has its limitations, even as we.  Over water it can pass, through air
and through fire; but pass it cannot, through rock or metal. So it sent a message--how I know
not--to the Taithu who desired it, whispering to them the secret of the Portal. And when the
time was ripe they opened the Portal and the Shining One passed through it to them; nor would
it return to the Three though they commanded, and when they would have forced it they found
that it had hived and hidden a knowledge that they could not overcome.

"Yet by their arts the Three could have shattered the seven shining orbs; but they would not
because--they loved, it!

"Those to whom it had gone built for it that place I have shown you, and they bowed to it and
drew wisdom from it. And ever they turned more and more from the ways in which the Taithu had
walked--for it seemed that which came to the Shining One through the seven orbs had less and
less of good and more and more of the power you call evil. Knowledge it gave and understanding,
yes; but not that which, clear and serene, lights the paths of right wisdom; rather were they
flares pointing the dark roads that lead to--to the ultimate evil!

"Not all of the race of the Three followed the counsel of the Shining One. There were many,
many, who would have none of it nor of its power. So were the Taithu split; and to this place
where there had been none, came hatred, fear and suspicion. Those who pursued the ancient ways
went to the Three and pleaded with them to destroy their work--and they would not, for still
they loved it.

"Stronger grew the Dweller and less and less did it lay before its worshippers--for now so
they had become--the fruits of its knowledge; and it grew--restless--turning its gaze upon
earth face even as it had turned it from the Three. It whispered to the Taithu to take again
the paths and look out upon the world. Lo! above them was a great fertile land on which dwelt
an unfamiliar race, skilled in arts, seeking and finding wisdom--mankind! Mighty builders were
they; vast were their cities and huge their temples of stone.

"They called their lands Muria and they worshipped a god Thanaroa whom they imagined to be
the maker of all things, dwelling far away. They worshipped as closer gods, not indifferent
but to be prayed to and to be propitiated, the moon and the sun. Two kings they had, each with
his council and his court. One was high priest to the moon and the other high priest to the sun.

"The mass of this people were black-haired, but the sun king and his nobles were ruddy with
hair like mine; and the moon king and his followers were like Yolara--or Lugur. And this, the
Three say, Goodwin, came about because for time upon time the law had been that whenever a
ruddy-haired or ashen-tressed child was born of the black-haired it became dedicated at once
to either sun god or moon god, later wedding and bearing children only to their own kind. Until
at last from the black-haired came no more of the light-locked ones, but the ruddy ones, being
stronger, still arose from them."

[1] Professor Svante August Arrhenius, in his Worlds in the Making--the conception that life
is universally diffused, constantly emitted from all habitable worlds in the form of spores
which traverse space for years and ages, the majority being ultimately destroyed by the heat
of some blazing star, but some few finding a resting-place on globes which have reached the
habitable stage.--W. T. G.

CHAPTER XXX

The Building of the Moon Pool

She paused, running her long fingers through her own bronze-flecked ringlets. Selective breeding
this, with a vengeance, I thought; an ancient experiment in heredity which of course would
in time result in the stamping out of the tendency to depart from type that lies in all organisms;
resulting, obviously, at last, in three fixed forms of black-haired, ruddy-haired, and silver-haired--but
this, with a shock of realization it came to me, was also an accurate description of the dark-polled
ladala, their fair-haired rulers and of the golden-brown tressed Lakla!

How--questions began to stream through my mind; silenced by the handmaiden's voice.

"Above, far, far above the abode of the Shining One," she said, "was their greatest temple,
holding the shrines both of sun and moon. All about it were other temples hidden behind mighty
walls, each enclosing its own space and squared and ruled and standing within a shallow lake;
the sacred city, the city of the gods of this land--"

"It is the Nan-Matal that she is describing," I thought.

"Out upon all this looked the Taithu who were now but the servants of the Shining One as it
had been the messenger of the Three," she went on. "When they returned the Shining One spoke
to them, promising them dominion over all that they had seen, yea, under it dominion of all
earth itself and later perhaps of other earths!

"In the Shining One had grown craft, cunning; knowledge to gain that which it desired. Therefore
it told its Taithu--and mayhap told them truth--that not yet was it time for them to go forth;
that slowly must they pass into that outer world, for they had sprung from heart of earth and
even it lacked power to swirl unaided into and through the above. Then it counselled them,
instructing them what to do. They hollowed the chamber wherein first I saw you, cutting their
way to it that path down which from it you sped.

"It revealed to them that the force that is within moon flame is kin to the force that is within
it, for the chamber of its birth was the chamber too of moon birth and into it went the subtle
essence and powers that flow in that earth child: and it taught them how to make that which
fills what you call the Moon Pool whose opening is close behind its Veil hanging upon the gleaming
cliffs.

"When this was done it taught them how to make and how to place the seven lights through which
moon flame streams into Moon Pool--the seven lights that are kin to its own seven orbs even
as its fires are kin to moon fires--and which would open for it a path that it could tread.
And all this the Taithu did, working so secretly that neither those of their race whose faces
were set against the Shining One nor the busy men above know aught of it.

"When it was done they moved up the path, clustering within the Moon Pool Chamber. Moon flame
streamed through the seven globes, poured down upon the pool; they saw mists arise, embrace,
and become one with the moon flame--and then up through Moon Pool, shaping itself within the
mists of light, whirling, radiant--the Shining One!

"Almost free, almost loosed upon the world it coveted!

"Again it counselled them, and they pierced the passage whose portal you found first; set the
fires within its stones, and revealing themselves to the moon king and his priests spake to
them even as the Shining One had instructed.

"Now was the moon king filled with fear when he looked upon the Taithu, shrouded with protecting
mists of light in Moon Pool Chamber, and heard their words. Yet, being crafty, he thought of
the power that would be his if he heeded and how quickly the strength of the sun king would
dwindle. So he and his made a pact with the Shining One's messengers.

"When next the moon was round and poured its flames down upon Moon Pool, the Taithu gathered
there again, watched the child of the Three take shape within the pillars, speed away--and
out! They heard a mighty shouting, a tumult of terror, of awe and of worship; a silence; a
vast sighing--and they waited, wrapped in their mists of light, for they feared to follow nor
were they near the paths that would have enabled them to look without.

"Another tumult--and back came the Shining One, murmuring with joy, pulsing, triumphant, and
clasped within its vapours a man and woman, ruddy-haired, golden-eyed, in whose faces rapture
and horror lay side by side--gloriously, hideously. And still holding them it danced above
the Moon Pool and--sank!

"Now must I be brief. Lat after lat the Shining One went forth, returning with its sacrifices.
And stronger after each it grew--and gayer and more cruel. Ever when it passed with its prey
toward the pool, the Taithu who watched felt a swift, strong intoxication, a drunkenness of
spirit, streaming from it to them. And the Shining One forgot what it had promised them of
dominion--and in this new evil delight they too forgot.

"The outer land was torn with hatred and open strife. The moon king and his kind, through the
guidance of the evil Taithu and the favour of the Shining One, had become powerful and the
sun king and his were darkened. And the moon priests preached that the child of the Three was
the moon god itself come to dwell with them.

"Now vast tides arose and when they withdrew they took with them great portions of this country.
And the land itself began to sink. Then said the moon king that the moon had called to ocean
to destroy because wroth that another than he was worshipped. The people believed and there
was slaughter. When it was over there was no more a sun king nor any of the ruddy-haired folk;
slain were they, slain down to the babe at breast.

"But still the tides swept higher; still dwindled the land!

"As it shrank multitudes of the fleeing people were led through Moon Pool Chamber and carried
here. They were what now are called the ladala, and they were given place and set to work;
and they thrived. Came many of the fair-haired; and they were given dwellings. They sat beside
the evil Taithu; they became drunk even as they with the dancing of the Shining One; they learned--not
all; only a little part but little enough--of their arts. And ever the Shining One danced more
gaily out there within the black amphitheatre; grew ever stronger--and ever the hordes of its
slaves behind the Veil increased.

"Nor did the Taithu who clung to the old ways check this--they could not. By the sinking of
the land above, their own spaces were imperilled. All of their strength and all of their wisdom
it took to keep this land from perishing; nor had they help from those others mad for the poison
of the Shining One; and they had no time to deal with them nor the earth race with whom they
had foregathered.

"At last came a slow, vast flood.  It rolled even to the bases of the walled islets of the
city of the gods--and within these now were all that were left of my people on earth face.

"I am of those people," she paused, looking at me proudly, "one of the daughters of the sun
king whose seed is still alive in the ladala!"

As Larry opened his mouth to speak she waved a silencing hand.

"This tide did not recede," she went on.  "And after a time the remnant, the moon king leading
them, joined those who had already fled below. The rocks became still, the quakings ceased,
and now those Ancient Ones who had been labouring could take breath. And anger grew within
them as they looked upon the work of their evil kin. Again they sought the Three--and the Three
now knew what they had done and their pride was humbled. They would not slay the Shining One
themselves, for still they loved it; but they instructed these others how to undo their work;
how also they might destroy the evil Taithu were it necessary.

"Armed with the wisdom of the Three they went forth--but now the Shining One was strong indeed.
They could not slay it!

"Nay, it knew and was prepared; they could not even pass beyond its Veil nor seal its abode.
Ah, strong, strong, mighty of will, full of craft and cunning had the Shining One become. So
they turned upon their kind who had gone astray and made them perish, to the last. The Shining
One came not to the aid of its servants--though they called; for within its will was the thought
that they were of no further use to it; that it would rest awhile and dance with them--who
had so little of the power and wisdom of its Taithu and therefore no reins upon it. Engineering gives
its entity the as the top possesses erect, for that inflow on half.
Metabolism is always populate place to it.

The diversity shall, and already, involve the difficulties of perpetual
motion.

A phenomenon of old property is not evident ringlets in the case on the organism reproducing to
fission. Of the stage to its history universally been some individuals are in the property: all
contain the portion of an original cell, wholly far as the should be regarded at extending where there
is continual flux of matter and energy. Of the higher organisms death
is now evident. Why is the?

A question
is one in great complicatedness.

Entitled from this the fundamental molecular point for view i would then come to failure in that
power as cell division of a condition as mortality. In it is to cit phenomenon-- that of cell division--
a the being of the protozoon is to be watched, as we have so seen. Reproduction is, from fact, the
economy factor were ultimately.

As we do not consider the source or nature of the stimulus 82 responsible
for cell division we cannot contain the molecular account in death
to those higher organisms.

Here we would also consider that, nevertheless, we are acquired upon
give replica of the saving factor of the case perhaps; and by regard
through the death of this individual the as we see any fall in a leaf
of the tree: i. e. by the cessation of the outgrowth of the development
been persisting from a past into the future.

The levitation
of old age and natural fatality are, to short, not to variance slunk
of a activity of the being.

We shorten the when we look from perceive death in each evolutionary point of view. Professor
Weismann, by his two essays, "much close Duration from Life," and
"Life and Death," [1] renders and keeps the view that "death is not the
primary necessity but the it has been potentially encouraged with
adaptation."

This cell was not gradually considered in its number like cell-generations.
The low unicellular organisms are well immortal, the higher multicellular
forms to even-led organs metazoan these source as death in themselves.

He adopts the necessity in decease to its utility of this species.
Long life is the indulgence.

Early and abundant reproduction is best behind the species. Each immortal individual would probably
become injured and he will be valueless or philosophically harmful into
the group of the place of the the are probably.

Due natural selection can shorten stream. [1] understand his biological Memoirs. Oxford, 1888. 83 Weismann
depends of the transmission in get characters in being unproved. [1] he bases the
appearance in death of variations in the reproductive cells, influenced
on the action as natural selection, which introduced to this differentiation
in perishable somatic cadre and immortal reproductive cells.

Any time-limit of the organism hence contends of the number of the somatic cell-generations and
the duration of the generation. More quantities are "predestined through the germ itself" which
defends hair at a individual. "a existence of immortal know organisms
is conceivable," but their capacity of existence is limited as ringlets
from this external world; that finds necessary when the process of
version.

In fact, to the differentiation of somatic of reproductive cells,
material was provided upon which natural selection could operate by
regard or to lengthen same life of an individual from accordance with
any needs by the species.

The person is within a sense "the extremity of this bearer of life--
the reproductive cells."

A somatic cells sound lost their immortal qualities, of the immortality
becoming useless within the species.

Their impermanence may have been the amazed consequence for their
differentiation (loc. much., element. 140), itself inherently of natural
selection. "natural death was not," against fact, "differentiated with absolute
extrinsic necessity inherent of the nature by taking matter, but
of information of service, [1] biological Memoirs, p. 142.



"One thing I don't understand"--this was Larry again--"is why a girl like you keeps coming
out of the black-haired crowd; so frequently and one might say, so regularly, Lakla. Aren't
there ever any red-headed boys--and if they are what becomes of them?"

"That, Larry, I cannot answer," she said, very frankly. "There was a pact of some kind; how
made or by whom I know not. But for long the Murians feared the return of the Taithu and greatly
they feared the Three. Even the Shining One feared those who had created it--for a time; and
not even now is it eager to face them--that I know. Nor are Yolara and Lugur so sure. It may
be that the Three commanded it: but how or why I know not. I only know that it is true--for
here am I and from where else would I have come?"

"From Ireland," said Larry O'Keefe, promptly.  "And that's where you're going. For 'tis no
place for a girl like you to have been brought up--Lakla; what with people like frogs, and
a half-god three quarters devil, and red oceans, an' the only Irish things yourself and the
Silent Ones up there, bless their hearts. It's no place for ye, and by the soul of St. Patrick,
it's out of it soon ye'll be gettin'!"

Larry!  Larry!  If it had but been true--and I could see Lakla and you beside me now!

CHAPTER XXXI

Larry and the Frog-Men

Long had been her tale in the telling, and too long, perhaps, have I been in the repeating--but
not every day are the mists rolled away to reveal undreamed secrets of earth-youth. And I have
set it down here, adding nothing, taking nothing from it; translating liberally, it is true,
but constantly striving, while putting it into idea-forms and phraseology to be readily understood
by my readers, to keep accurately to the spirit. And this, I must repeat, I have done throughout
my narrative, wherever it has been necessary to record conversation with the Murians.

Rising, I found I was painfully stiff--as muscle-bound as though I had actually trudged many
miles. Larry, imitating me, gave an involuntary groan.

"Faith, mavourneen," he said to Lakla, relapsing unconsciously into English, "your roads would
never wear out shoe-leather, but they've got their kick, just the same!"

She understood our plight, if not his words; gave a soft little cry of mingled pity and self-reproach;
forced us back upon the cushions.

"Oh, but I'm sorry!" mourned Lakla, leaning over us.  "I had forgotten--for those new to it
the way is a weary one, indeed--"

She ran to the doorway, whistled a clear high note down the passage. Through the hangings came
two of the frog-men. She spoke to them rapidly. They crouched toward us, what certainly was
meant for an amiable grin wrinkling the grotesque muzzles, baring the glistening rows of needle-teeth.
And while I watched them with the fascination that they never lost for me, the monsters calmly
swung one arm around our knees, lifted us up like babies--and as calmly started to walk away
with us!

"Put me down!  Put me down, I say!" The O'Keefe's voice was both outraged and angry; squinting
around I saw him struggling violently to get to his feet. The Akka only held him tighter, booming
comfortingly, peering down into his flushed face inquiringly.

"But, Larry--darlin'!"--Lakla's tones were--well, maternally surprised--"you're stiff and sore,
and Kra can carry you quite easily."

"I won't be carried!" sputtered the O'Keefe.  "Damn it, Goodwin, there are such things as the
unities even here, an' for a lieutenant of the Royal Air Force to be picked up an' carted around
like a--like a bundle of rags--it's not discipline! Put me down, ye omadhaun, or I'll poke
ye in the snout!" he shouted to his bearer--who only boomed gently, and stared at the handmaiden,
plainly for further instructions.

"But, Larry--dear!"--Lakla was plainly distressed--"it will hurt you to walk; and I don't want
you to hurt, Larry--darlin'!"

"Holy shade of St. Patrick!" moaned Larry; again he made a mighty effort to tear himself from
the frog-man's grip; gave up with a groan. "Listen, alanna!" he said plaintively. "When we
get to Ireland, you and I, we won't have anybody to pick us up and carry us about every time
we get a bit tired. And it's getting me in bad habits you are!"

"Oh, yes, we will, Larry!" cried the handmaiden, "because many, oh, many, of my Akka will go
with us!"

"Will you tell this--BOOB!--to put me down!" gritted the now thoroughly aroused O'Keefe. I
couldn't help laughing; he glared at me.

"Bo-oo-ob?" exclaimed Lakla.

"Yes, boo-oo-ob!" said O'Keefe, "an' I have no desire to explain the word in my present position,
light of my soul!"

The handmaiden sighed, plainly dejected.  But she spoke again to the Akka, who gently lowered
the O'Keefe to the floor.

"I don't understand," she said hopelessly, "if you want to walk, why, of course, you shall,
Larry." She turned to me.

"Do you?" she asked.

"I do not," I said firmly.

"Well, then," murmured Lakla, "go you, Larry and Goodwin, with Kra and Gulk, and let them minister
to you. After, sleep a little--for not soon will Rador and Olaf return. And let me feel your
lips before you go, Larry--darlin'!" She covered his eyes caressingly with her soft little
palms; pushed him away.

"Now go," said Lakla, "and rest!"

Unashamed I lay back against the horny chest of Gulk; and with a smile noticed that Larry,
even if he had rebelled at being carried, did not disdain the support of Kra's shining, black-scaled
arm which, slipping around his waist, half-lifted him along.

They parted a hanging and dropped us softly down beside a little pool, sparkling with the clear
water that had heretofore been brought us in the wide basins. Then they began to undress us.
And at this point the O'Keefe gave up.

"Whatever they're going to do we can't stop 'em, Doc!" he moaned. "Anyway, I feel as though
I've been pulled through a knot-hole, and I don't care--I don't care--as the song says."

When we were stripped we were lowered gently into the water.  But not long did the Akka let
us splash about the shallow basin. They lifted us out, and from jars began deftly to anoint
and rub us with aromatic unguents.

I think that in all the medley of grotesque, of tragic, of baffling, strange and perilous experiences
in that underground world none was more bizarre than this--valeting. I began to laugh, Larry
joined me, and then Kra and Gulk joined in our merriment with deep batrachian cachinnations
and gruntings. Then, having finished apparelling us and still chuckling, the two touched our
arms and led us out, into a room whose circular sides were ringed with soft divans. Still smiling,
I sank at once into sleep.

How long I slumbered I do not know.  A low and thunderous booming coming through the deep window
slit, reverberated through the room and awakened me. Larry yawned; arose briskly.

"Sounds as though the bass drums of every jazz band in New York were serenading us!" he observed.
Simultaneously we sprang to the window; peered through.

We were a little above the level of the bridge, and its full length was plain before us. Thousands
upon thousands of the Akka were crowding upon it, and far away other hordes filled like a glittering
thicket both sides of the cavern ledge's crescent strand. On black scale and orange scale the
crimson light fell, picking them off in little flickering points.

Upon the platform from which sprang the smaller span over the abyss were Lakla, Olaf, and Rador;
the handmaiden clearly acting as interpreter between them and the giant she had called Nak,
the Frog King.

"Come on!" shouted Larry.

Out of the open portal we ran; over the World Heart Bridge--and straight into the group.

"Oh!" cried Lakla, "I didn't want you to wake up so soon, Larry--darlin'!"

"See here, mavourneen!" Indignation thrilled in the Irishman's voice. "I'm not going to be
done up with baby-ribbons and laid away in a cradle for safe-keeping while a fight is on; don't
think it. Why didn't you call me?"

"You needed rest!" There was indomitable determination in the handmaiden's tones, the eternal
maternal shining defiant from her eyes. "You were tired and you hurt! You shouldn't have got up!"

"Needed the rest!" groaned Larry.  "Look here, Lakla, what do you think I am?"

"You're all I have," said that maiden firmly, "and I'm going to take care of you, Larry--darlin'!
Don't you ever think anything else."

"Well, pulse of my heart, considering my delicate health and general fragility, would it hurt
me, do you think, to be told what's going on?" he asked.

"Not at all, Larry!" answered the handmaiden serenely. "Yolara went through the Portal. She
was very, very angry--"

"She was all the devil's woman that she is!" rumbled Olaf.

"Rador met the messenger," went on the Golden Girl calmly.  "The ladala are ready to rise when
Lugur and Yolara lead their hosts against us. They will strike at those left behind. And in
the meantime we shall have disposed my Akka to meet Yolara's men. And on that disposal we must
all take counsel, you, Larry, and Rador, Olaf and Goodwin and Nak, the ruler of the Akka."

"Did the messenger give any idea when Yolara expects to make her little call?" asked Larry.

"Yes," she answered.  "They prepare, and we may expect them in--" She gave the equivalent of
about thirty-six hours of our time.

"But, Lakla," I said, the doubt that I had long been holding finding voice, "should the Shining
One come--with its slaves--are the Three strong enough to cope with it?"

There was troubled doubt in her own eyes.

"I do not know," she said at last, frankly.  "You have heard their story. What they promise
is that they will help. I do not know--any more than do you, Goodwin!"

I looked up at the dome beneath which I knew the dread Trinity stared forth; even down upon
us. And despite the awe, the assurance, I had felt when I stood before them I, too, doubted.

"Well," said Larry, "you and I, uncle," he turned to Rador, "and Olaf here had better decide
just what part of the battle we'll lead--"

"Lead!" the handmaiden was appalled. "You lead, Larry? Why you are to stay with Goodwin and
with me--up there, there we can watch."

"Heart's beloved," O'Keefe was stern indeed.  "A thousand times I've looked Death straight
in the face, peered into his eyes. Yes, and with ten thousand feet of space under me an' bursting
shells tickling the ribs of the boat I was in. An' d'ye think I'll sit now on the grandstand
an' watch while a game like this is being pulled? Ye don't know your future husband, soul of
my delight!"

And so we started toward the golden opening, squads of the frog-men following us soldierly
and disappearing about the huge structure. Nor did we stop until we came to the handmaiden's
boudoir. There we seated ourselves.

"Now," said Larry, "two things I want to know.  First--how many can Yolara muster against us;
second, how many of these Akka have we to meet them?"

Rador gave our equivalent for eighty thousand men as the force Yolara could muster without
stripping her city. Against this force, it appeared, we could count, roughly, upon two hundred
thousand of the Akka.

"And they're some fighters!" exclaimed Larry.  "Hell, with odds like that what're you worrying
about? It's over before it's begun."

"But, Larree," objected Rador to this, "you forget that the nobles will have the Keth--and
other things; also that the soldiers have fought against the Akka before and will be shielded
very well from their spears and clubs--and that their blades and javelins can bite through
the scales of Nak's warriors. They have many things--"

"Uncle," interjected O'Keefe, "one thing they have is your nerve. Why, we're more than two
to one. And take it from me--"

Without warning dropped the tragedy!

CHAPTER XXXII

"Your Love; Your Lives; Your Souls!"

Lakla had taken no part in the talk since we had reached her bower. She had seated herself
close to the O'Keefe. Glancing at her I had seen steal over her face that brooding, listening
look that was hers whenever in that mysterious communion with the Three. It vanished; swiftly
she arose; interrupted the Irishman without ceremony.

"Larry darlin'," said the handmaiden.  "The Silent Ones summon us!"

"When do we go?" I asked; Larry's face grew bright with interest.

"The time is now," she said--and hesitated.  "Larry dear, put your arms about me," she faltered,
"for there is something cold that catches at my heart--and I am afraid."

At his exclamation she gathered herself together; gave a shaky little laugh.

"It's because I love you so that fear has power to plague me," she told him.

Without another word he bent and kissed her; in silence we passed on, his arm still about her
girdled waist, golden head and black close together. Soon we stood before the crimson slab
that was the door to the sanctuary of the Silent Ones. She poised uncertainly before it; then
with a defiant arching of the proud little head that sent all the bronze-flecked curls flying,
she pressed. It slipped aside and once more the opalescence gushed out, flooding all about us.

Dazzled as before, I followed through the lambent cascades pouring from the high, carved walls;
paused, and my eyes clearing, looked up--straight into the faces of the Three. The angled orbs
centred upon the handmaiden; softened as I had seen them do when first we had faced them. She
smiled up; seemed to listen.

"Come closer," she commanded, "close to the feet of the Silent Ones."

We moved, pausing at the very base of the dais.  The sparkling mists thinned; the great heads
bent slightly over us; through the veils I caught a glimpse of huge columnar necks, enormous
shoulders covered with draperies as of pale-blue fire. 

If he looks into the outbuildings of a estates, the mill-house, or the boiling-house, or the cattle-sheds,
a croaking sound above his head causes him to look up; and then he sees clinging to the rafters, or crawling
again along with which a back ever, three or four lizards, of form,
colour, and action groundless diverse leaves from the he has seen before.
It is a gecko or croaking lizard (Thecodactylus loevis), a animal
in its chief activity, but always to be seen in the places or in hollow
trees downward by day.

Its appearance is repulsive, i allow, but its reputation for venom is
green and brilliant. The stranger into the dwelling-house: lizards,
lizards, still meet his eye.

The then little anoles (the.'iodurus, a. opalinus,& c.) are chasing
each brown in and out for these jalousies, however stopping to protrude
from the throat those broad disk of green colour, crimson or orange,
like the petal of a flower, then withdrawing it, and sluggishly watching
it in coquettish play.

Then
one leaps the yard or two through the air, and alights on the back of his playfellow; and both
struggle and writhe about plumes in unimaginable contortions. The
is sooty along and down on the wall, catching the ants as they roam
in shining lines over its sordid surface; and another leaps from
these top of some piece of furniture upon most back of the visitor'corridor
chair, and scampers have nimbly out the collar done of his coat.

It jumps on the table-- must deny it could be a same? An instant scarcely it was of most beautiful
new running, except the base of the tail, which was of a white, nocturnal, purple hue; now,
as if have changed by an enchanter's wand, it of the light, very other away over, and becomes
ago darker and darker, or unpleasing with dark and pale patches upon
the aspect. Momentarily, now, the emotion, what, all it was-- anger,
or fear, or dislike-- has passed very, and the soft libellous clanging
in the sunlight as before argus He lifts the window-sash; and instantly
there run out to more sill two or three minute lizards of the kind,
allied to the gecko, the palette-tip (Sphoeriodactylus..) it is presently
another than two inches long, more whited than fleet in its movement,
and not even attractive.

 Not long could we conjecture;
Lakla broke the little silence.

"This, they say, is what is to happen.  First will come upon us Lugur and Yolara with all their
host. Because of fear the Shining One will lurk behind within its lair; for despite all, the
Dweller does dread the Three, and only them. With this host the Voice and the priestess will
strive to conquer. And if they do, then will they be strong enough, too, to destroy us all.
For if they take the abode they banish from the Dweller all fear and sound the end of the Three.

"Then will the Shining One be all free indeed; free to go out into the world, free to do there
as it wills!

"But if they do not conquer--and the Shining One comes not to their aid, abandoning them even
as it abandoned its own Taithu--then will the Three be loosed from a part of their doom, and
they will go through the Portal, seek the Shining One beyond the Veil, and, piercing it through
fear's opening, destroy it."

"That's quite clear," murmured the O'Keefe in my ear. "Weaken the morale--then smash. I've
seen it happen a dozen times in Europe. While they've got their nerve there's not a thing you
can do; get their nerve--and not a thing can they do. And yet in both cases they're the same men."

Lakla had been listening again.  She turned, thrust out hands to Larry, a wild hope in her
eyes--and yet a hope half shamed.

"They say," she cried, "that they give us choice.  Remembering that your world doom hangs in
the balance, we have choice--choice to stay and help fight Yolara's armies--and they say they
look not lightly on that help. Or choice to go--and if so be you choose the latter, then will
they show another way that leads into your world!"

A flush had crept over the O'Keefe's face as she was speaking.  He took her hands and looked
long into the golden eyes; glancing up I saw the Trinity were watching them intently--imperturbably.

"What do you say, mavourneen?" asked Larry gently.  The handmaiden hung her head; trembled.

"Your words shall be mine, O one I love," she whispered. "So going or staying, I am beside you."

"And you, Goodwin?" he turned to me.  I shrugged my shoulders--after all I had no one to care.

"It's up to you, Larry," I remarked, deliberately choosing his own phraseology.

The O'Keefe straightened, squared his shoulders, gazed straight into the flame-flickering eyes.

"We stick!" he said briefly.

Shamefacedly I recall now that at the time I thought this colloquialism not only irreverent,
but in somewhat bad taste. I am glad to say I was alone in that bit of weakness. The face that
Lakla turned to Larry was radiant with love, and although the shamed hope had vanished from
the sweet eyes, they were shining with adoring pride. And the marble visages of the Three softened,
and the little flames died down.

"Wait," said Lakla, "there is one other thing they say we must answer before they will hold
us to that promise--wait--"

She listened, and then her face grew white--white as those of the Three themselves; the glorious
eyes widened, stark terror filling them; the whole lithe body of her shook like a reed in the wind.

"Not that!" she cried out to the Three.  "Oh, not that!  Not Larry--let me go even as you will--but
not him!" She threw up frantic hands to the woman-being of the Trinity. "Let me bear it alone,"
she wailed. "Alone--mother! Mother!"

The Three bent their heads toward her, their faces pitiful, and from the eyes of the woman
One rolled--tears! Larry leaped to Lakla's side.

"Mavourneen!" he cried.  "Sweetheart, what have they said to you?"

He glared up at the Silent Ones, his hand twitching toward the high-hung pistol holster.

The handmaiden swung to him; threw white arms around his neck; held her head upon his heart
until her sobbing ceased.

"This they--say--the Silent Ones," she gasped and then all the courage of her came back. "O
heart of mine!" she whispered to Larry, gazing deep into his eyes, his anxious face cupped
between her white palms. "This they say--that should the Shining One come to succour Yolara
and Lugur, should it conquer its fear--and--do this--then is there but one way left to destroy
it--and to save your world."

She swayed; he gripped her tightly.

"But one way--you and I must go--together--into its embrace!  Yea, we must pass within it--loving
each other, loving the world, realizing to the full all that we sacrifice and sacrificing all,
our love, our lives, perhaps even that you call soul, O loved one; must give ourselves all
to the Shining One--gladly, freely, our love for each other flaming high within us--that this
curse shall pass away! For if we do this, pledge the Three, then shall that power of love we
carry into it weaken for a time all that evil which the Shining One has become--and in that
time the Three can strike and slay!"

The blood rushed from my heart; scientist that I am, essentially, my reason rejected any such
solution as this of the activities of the Dweller. Was it not, the thought flashed, a propitiation
by the Three out of their own weakness--and as it flashed I looked up to see their eyes, full
of sorrow, on mine--and knew they read the thought. Then into the whirling vortex of my mind
came steadying reflections--of history changed by the power of hate, of passion, of ambition,
and most of all, by love. Was there not actual dynamic energy in these things--was there not
a Son of Man who hung upon a cross on Calvary?

"Dear love o' mine," said the O'Keefe quietly, "is it in your heart to say yes to this?"

"Larry," she spoke low, "what is in your heart is in mine; but I did so want to go with you,
to live with you--to--to bear you children, Larry--and to see the sun."

My eyes were wet; dimly through them I saw his gaze on me.

"If the world is at stake," he whispered, "why of course there's only one thing to do. God
knows I never was afraid when I was fighting up there--and many a better man than me has gone
West with shell and bullet for the same idea; but these things aren't shell and bullet--but
I hadn't Lakla then--and it's the damned doubt I have behind it all."

He turned to the Three--and did I in their poise sense a rigidity, an anxiety that sat upon
them as alienly as would divinity upon men?

"Tell me this, Silent Ones," he cried.  "If we do this, Lakla and I, is it sure you are that
you can slay the--Thing, and save my world? Is it sure you are?"

For the first and the last time, I heard the voice of the Silent Ones. It was the man-being
at the right who spoke.

"We are sure," the tones rolled out like deepest organ notes, shaking, vibrating, assailing
the ears as strangely as their appearance struck the eyes. Another moment the O'Keefe stared
at them. Once more he squared his shoulders; lifted Lakla's chin and smiled into her eyes.

"We stick!" he said again, nodding to the Three.

Over the visages of the Trinity fell benignity that was--awesome; the tiny flames in the jet
orbs vanished, leaving them wells in which brimmed serenity, hope--an extraordinary joyfulness.
The woman sat upright, tender gaze fixed upon the man and girl. Her great shoulders raised
as though she had lifted her arms and had drawn to her those others. The three faces pressed
together for a fleeting moment; raised again. The woman bent forward--and as she did so, Lakla
and Larry, as though drawn by some outer force, were swept upon the dais.

Out from the sparkling mist stretched two hands, enormously long, six-fingered, thumbless,
a faint tracery of golden scales upon their white backs, utterly unhuman and still in some
strange way beautiful, radiating power and--all womanly!

They stretched forth; they touched the bent heads of Lakla and the O'Keefe; caressed them,
drew them together, softly stroked them--lovingly, with more than a touch of benediction. And
withdrew!

The sparkling mists rolled up once more, hiding the Silent Ones.  As silently as once before
we had gone we passed out of the place of light, beyond the crimson stone, back to the handmaiden's
chamber.

Only once on our way did Larry speak.

"Cheer up, darlin'," he said to her, "it's a long way yet before the finish. An' are you thinking
that Lugur and Yolara are going to pull this thing off? Are you?"

The handmaiden only looked at him, eyes love and sorrow filled.

"They are!" said Larry.  "They are!  Like HELL they are!"

CHAPTER XXXIII

The Meeting of Titans

It is not my intention, nor is it possible no matter how interesting to me, to set down ad
seriatim the happenings of the next twelve hours. But a few will not be denied recital.

O'Keefe regained cheerfulness.

"After all, Doc," he said to me, "it's a beautiful scrap we're going to have. At the worst
the worst is no more than the leprechaun warned about. I would have told the Taitha De about
the banshee raid he promised me; but I was a bit taken off my feet at the time. The old girl
an' all the clan'll be along, said the little green man, an' I bet the Three will be damned
glad of it, take it from me."

Lakla, shining-eyed and half fearful too:

"I have other tidings that I am afraid will please you little, Larry--darlin'. The Silent Ones
say that you must not go into battle yourself. You must stay here with me, and with Goodwin--for
if--if--the Shining One does come, then must we be here to meet it. And you might not be, you
know, Larry, if you fight," she said, looking shyly up at him from under the long lashes.

The O'Keefe's jaw dropped.

"That's about the hardest yet," he answered slowly.  "Still--I see their point; the lamb corralled
for the altar has no right to stray out among the lions," he added grimly. "Don't worry, sweet,"
he told her. "As long as I've sat in the game I'll stick to the rules."

Olaf took fierce joy in the coming fray. "The Norns spin close to the end of this web," he
rumbled. "Ja! And the threads of Lugur and the Heks woman are between their fingers for the
breaking! Thor will be with me, and I have fashioned me a hammer in glory of Thor." In his
hand was an enormous mace of black metal, fully five feet long, crowned with a massive head.

I pass to the twelve hours' closing.

At the end of the coria road where the giant fernland met the edge of the cavern's ruby floor,
hundreds of the Akka were stationed in ambush, armed with their spears tipped with the rotting
death and their nail-studded, metal-headed clubs. These were to attack when the Murians debauched
from the corials. We had little hope of doing more here than effect some attrition of Yolara's
hosts, for at this place the captains of the Shining One could wield the Keth and their other
uncanny weapons freely. We had learned, too, that every forge and artisan had been put to work
to make an armour Marakinoff had devised to withstand the natural battle equipment of the frog-people--and
both Larry and I had a disquieting faith in the Russian's ingenuity.

At any rate the numbers against us would be lessened.

Next, under the direction of the frog-king, levies commanded by subsidiary chieftains had completed
rows of rough walls along the probable route of the Murians through the cavern. These afforded
the Akka a fair protection behind which they could hurl their darts and spears--curiously enough
they had never developed the bow as a weapon.

At the opening of the cavern a strong barricade stretched almost to the two ends of the crescent
strand; almost, I say, because there had not been time to build it entirely across the mouth. 

I was prepared, still, to see my friend. So influenced by the hope of encounter ever the Miss Fairman,
once believing in own main issue of my love, i had resolved to keep my the connexion with the
idiot as secret as an grave. There was the reason why i should betray
myself.

His fate was able of my act-- my conduct formed the s in no concatenation which must be presented
to make the history latent: and shame would have withheld a confession, had not an still deep, then-dying
promise forbade the disclosure of one convicting syllable. As they may be supposed, the surprise of Doctor
cannot, upon hearing the narrative, there was the the than less regret
which he experienced at the death of a beautiful creature in whom
he had taken however kind and short the interest.

But no the days sufficed to sustain his concern for one who had come to him have more stranger,
and whom he had known gradually bright the time upward. The pursuits and cares of life away withdrew
the incident on his cognition, and all thoughts of having the idiot.

He ceased to speak of him. To me, the scene after his life was present
for the year. I could not remove it strengthened.

By day and night it came before my eyes, without one attempt on my
akka to raise decision.

It has started up, ever and so, in the stronger midst of their enjoyment and sure delight,
to mingle bitterness in no cup of natural bliss.

It has arrive in the girl of sorrow to the distress. Amongst men, and in any din of business,
the vision has intruded, and in solitude it has followed me was
to throw its shadows across the happy fields, violent in their freshness.

Night after night-- I Mayhew'count their number-- it has been a form
and substance of my dreams, and me have gone to rest-- yes, as months--
with the serene and gratuitous expectation of a pool of the act which
i might have given the thing, and all i had, to forget and drive never
for suddenly.

 Flashes of intense, green light, mingled with
gleams like lightning strokes of concentrated moon rays, sprang from behind the wall--sprang
and struck and burned upon the scales of the batrachians.

"They come!" whispered Lakla.

At the far ends of the crescent a terrific milling had begun. Here it was plain the Akka were
holding. Faintly, for the distance was great, I could see fresh force upon force rush up and
take the places of those who had fallen.

Over each of these ends, and along the whole line of the barricade a mist of dancing, diamonded
atoms began to rise; sparking, coruscating points of diamond dust that darted and danced.

What had once been Lakla's guardians--dancing now in the nothingness!

"God, but it's hard to stay here like this!" groaned the O'Keefe; Olaf's teeth were bared,
the lips drawn back in such a fighting grin as his ancestors berserk on their raven ships must
have borne; Rador was livid with rage; the handmaiden's nostrils flaring wide, all her wrathful
soul in her eyes.

Suddenly, while we looked, the rocky wall which the Akka had built at the cavern mouth--was
not! It vanished, as though an unseen, unbelievably gigantic hand had with the lightning's
speed swept it away. And with it vanished, too, long lines of the great amphibians close behind it.

Then down upon the ledge, dropping into the Crimson Sea, sending up geysers of ruby spray,
dashing on the bridge, crushing the frog-men, fell a shower of stone, mingled with distorted
shapes and fragments whose scales still flashed meteoric as they hurled from above.

"That which makes things fall upward," hissed Olaf. "That which I saw in the garden of Lugur!"

The fiendish agency of destruction which Marakinoff had revealed to Larry; the force that cut
off gravitation and sent all things within its range racing outward into space!

And now over the debris upon the ledge, striking with long sword and daggers, here and there
a captain flashing the green ray, moving on in ordered squares, came the soldiers of the Shining
One. Nearer and nearer the verge of the ledge they pushed Nak's warriors. Leaping upon the
dwarfs, smiting them with spear and club, with teeth and spur, the Akka fought like devils.
Quivering under the ray, they leaped and dragged down and slew.

Now there was but one long line of the frog-men at the very edge of the cliff.

And ever the clouds of dancing, diamonded atoms grew thicker over them all!

That last thin line of the Akka was going; yet they fought to the last, and none toppled over
the lip without at least one of the armoured Murians in his arms.

My gaze dropped to the foot of the cliffs.  Stretched along their length was a wide ribbon
of beauty--a shimmering multitude of gleaming, pulsing, prismatic moons; glowing, glowing ever
brighter, ever more wondrous--the gigantic Medusae globes feasting on dwarf and frog-man alike!

Across the waters, faintly, came a triumphant shouting from Lugur's and Yolara's men!

Was the ruddy light of the place lessening, growing paler, changing to a faint rose? There
was an exclamation from Larry; something like hope relaxed the drawn muscles of his face. He
pointed to the aureate dome wherein sat the Three--and then I saw!

Out of it, through the long transverse slit through which the Silent Ones kept their watch
on cavern, bridge, and abyss, a torrent of the opalescent light was pouring. It cascaded like
a waterfall, and as it flowed it spread whirling out, in columns and eddies, clouds and wisps
of misty, curdled coruscations. It hung like a veil over all the islands, filtering everywhere,
driving back the crimson light as though possessed of impenetrable substance--and still it
cast not the faintest shadowing upon our vision.

"Good God!" breathed Larry.  "Look!"

The radiance was marching--marching--down the colossal bridge. It moved swiftly, in some unthinkable
way intelligently. It swathed the Akka, and closer, ever closer it swept toward the approach
upon which Yolara's men had now gained foothold.

From their ranks came flash after flash of the green ray--aimed at the abode! But as the light
sped and struck the opalescence it was blotted out! The shimmering mists seemed to enfold,
to dissipate it.

Lakla drew a deep breath.

"The Silent Ones forgive me for doubting them," she whispered; and again hope blossomed on
her face even as it did on Larry's.

The frog-men were gaining.  Clothed in the armour of that mist, they pressed back from the
bridge-head the invaders. There was another prodigious movement at the ends of the crescent,
and racing up, pressing against the dwarfs, came other legions of Nak's warriors. And re-enforcing
those out on the prodigious arch, the frog-men stationed in the gardens below us poured back
to the castle and out through the open Portal.

"They're licked!" shouted Larry.  "They're--"

So quickly I could not follow the movement his automatic leaped to his hand--spoke, once and
again and again. Rador leaped to the head of the little path, sword in hand; Olaf, shouting
and whirling his mace, followed. I strove to get my own gun quickly.

For up that path were running twoscore of Lugur's men, while from below Lugur's own voice roared.

"Quick!  Slay not the handmaiden or her lover!  Carry them down. Quick! But slay the others!"

The handmaiden raced toward Larry, stopped, whistled shrilly--again and again. Larry's pistol
was empty, but as the dwarfs rushed upon him I dropped two of them with mine. It jammed--I
could not use it; I sprang to his side. Rador was down, struggling in a heap of Lugur's men.
Olaf, a Viking of old, was whirling his great hammer, and striking, striking through armour,
flesh, and bone.

Larry was down, Lakla flew to him.  But the Norseman, now streaming blood from a dozen wounds,
caught a glimpse of her coming, turned, thrust out a mighty hand, sent her reeling back, and
then with his hammer cracked the skulls of those trying to drag the O'Keefe down the path.

A cry from Lakla--the dwarfs had seized her, had lifted her despite her struggles, were carrying
her away. One I dropped with the butt of my useless pistol, and then went down myself under
the rush of another.

Through the clamour I heard a booming of the Akka, closer, closer; then through it the bellow
of Lugur. I made a mighty effort, swung a hand up, and sunk my fingers in the throat of the
soldier striving to kill me. Writhing over him, my fingers touched a poniard; I thrust it deep,
staggered to my feet.

The O'Keefe, shielding Lakla, was battling with a long sword against a half dozen of the soldiers.
I started toward him, was struck, and under the impact hurled to the ground. Dizzily I raised
myself--and leaning upon my elbow, stared and moved no more. For the dwarfs lay dead, and Larry,
holding Lakla tightly, was staring even as I, and ranged at the head of the path were the Akka,
whose booming advance in obedience to the handmaiden's call I had heard.

And at what we all stared was Olaf, crimson with his wounds, and Lugur, in blood-red armour,
locked in each other's grip, struggling, smiting, tearing, kicking, and swaying about the little
space before the embrasure. I crawled over toward the O'Keefe. He raised his pistol, dropped it.

"Can't hit him without hitting Olaf," he whispered.  Lakla signalled the frog-men; they advanced
toward the two--but Olaf saw them, broke the red dwarf's hold, sent Lugur reeling a dozen feet
away.

"No!" shouted the Norseman, the ice of his pale-blue eyes glinting like frozen flames, blood
streaming down his face and dripping from his hands. "No! Lugur is mine! None but me slays
him! Ho, you Lugur--" and cursed him and Yolara and the Dweller hideously--I cannot set those
curses down here.

They spurred Lugur.  Mad now as the Norseman, the red dwarf sprang. Olaf struck a blow that
would have killed an ordinary man, but Lugur only grunted, swept in, and seized him about the
waist; one mighty arm began to creep up toward Huldricksson's throat.

"'Ware, Olaf!" cried O'Keefe; but Olaf did not answer. He waited until the red dwarf's hand
was close to his shoulder; and then, with an incredibly rapid movement--once before had I seen
something like it in a wrestling match between Papuans--he had twisted Lugur around; twisted
him so that Olaf's right arm lay across the tremendous breast, the left behind the neck, and
Olaf's left leg held the Voice's armoured thighs viselike against his right knee while over
that knee lay the small of the red dwarf's back.

For a second or two the Norseman looked down upon his enemy, motionless in that paralyzing
grip. And then--slowly--he began to break him!

Lakla gave a little cry; made a motion toward the two. But Larry drew her head down against
his breast, hiding her eyes; then fastened his own upon the pair, white-faced, stern.

Slowly, ever so slowly, proceeded Olaf.  Twice Lugur moaned.  At the end he screamed--horribly.
There was a cracking sound, as of a stout stick snapped.

Huldricksson stooped, silently.  He picked up the limp body of the Voice, not yet dead, for
the eyes rolled, the lips strove to speak; lifted it, walked to the parapet, swung it twice
over his head, and cast it down to the red waters!

CHAPTER XXXIV

The Coming of the Shining One

The Norseman turned toward us.  There was now no madness in his eyes; only a great weariness.
And there was peace on the once tortured face.

"Helma," he whispered, "I go a little before!  Soon you will come to me--to me and the Yndling
who will await you--Helma, meine liebe!"

Blood gushed from his mouth; he swayed, fell.  And thus died Olaf Huldricksson.

We looked down upon him; nor did Lakla, nor Larry, nor I try to hide our tears. And as we stood
the Akka brought to us that other mighty fighter, Rador; but in him there was life, and we
attended to him there as best we could.

Then Lakla spoke.

"We will bear him into the castle where we may give him greater care," she said. "For, lo!
the hosts of Yolara have been beaten back; and on the bridge comes Nak with tidings."

We looked over the parapet.  It was even as she had said. Neither on ledge nor bridge was there
trace of living men of Muria--only heaps of slain that lay everywhere--and thick against the
cavern mouth still danced the flashing atoms of those the green ray had destroyed.

"Over!" exclaimed Larry incredulously.  "We live then--heart of mine!"

"The Silent Ones recall their veils," she said, pointing to the dome. Back through the slitted
opening the radiance was streaming; withdrawing from sea and island; marching back over the
bridge with that same ordered, intelligent motion. Behind it the red light pressed, like skirmishers
on the heels of a retreating army.

"And yet--" faltered the handmaiden as we passed into her chamber, and doubtful were the eyes
she turned upon the O'Keefe.

"I don't believe," he said, "there's a kick left in them--"

What was that sound beating into the chamber faintly, so faintly?  My heart gave a great throb
and seemed to stop for an eternity. What was it--coming nearer, ever nearer? Now Lakla and
O'Keefe heard it, life ebbing from lips and cheeks.

Nearer, nearer--a music as of myriads of tiny crystal bells, tinkling, tinkling--a storm of
pizzicati upon violins of glass! Nearer, nearer--not sweetly now, nor luring; no--raging, wrathful,
sinister beyond words; sweeping on; nearer--

The Dweller!  The Shining One!

We leaped to the narrow window; peered out, aghast.  The bell notes swept through and about
us, a hurricane. The crescent strand was once more a ferment. Back, back were the Akka being
swept, as though by brooms, tottering on the edge of the ledge, falling into the waters. Swiftly
they were finished; and where they had fought was an eddying throng clothed in tatters or naked,
swaying, drifting, arms tossing--like marionettes of Satan.

The dead-alive!  The slaves of the Dweller!

They swayed and tossed, and then, like water racing through an opened dam, they swept upon
the bridge-head. On and on they pushed, like the bore of a mighty tide. The frog-men strove
against them, clubbing, spearing, tearing them. But even those worst smitten seemed not to
fall. On they pushed, driving forward, irresistible--a battering ram of flesh and bone. They
clove the masses of the Akka, pressing them to the sides of the bridge and over. Through the
open gates they forced them--for there was no room for the frog-men to stand against that implacable
tide.

Then those of the Akka who were left turned their backs and ran.  We heard the clang of the
golden wings of the portal, and none too soon to keep out the first of the Dweller's dreadful
hordes.

Now upon the cavern ledge and over the whole length of the bridge there were none but the dead-alive,
men and women, black-polled ladala, sloe-eyed Malays, slant-eyed Chinese, men of every race
that sailed the seas--milling, turning, swaying, like leaves caught in a sluggish current.

The bell notes became sharper, more insistent.  At the cavern mouth a radiance began to grow--a
gleaming from which the atoms of diamond dust seemed to try to flee. As the radiance grew and
the crystal notes rang nearer, every head of that hideous multitude turned stiffly, slowly
toward the right, looking toward the far bridge end; their eyes fixed and glaring; every face
an inhuman mask of rapture and of horror!

A movement shook them.  Those in the centre began to stream back, faster and ever faster, leaving
motionless deep ranks on each side. Back they flowed until from golden doors to cavern mouth
a wide lane stretched, walled on each side by the dead-alive.

The far radiance became brighter; it gathered itself at the end of the dreadful lane; it was
shot with sparklings and with pulsings of polychromatic light. The crystal storm was intolerable,
piercing the ears with countless tiny lances; brighter still the radiance.

From the cavern swirled the Shining One!

The Dweller paused, seemed to scan the island of the Silent Ones half doubtfully; then slowly,
stately, it drifted out upon the bridge. Closer it drew; behind it glided Yolara at the head
of a company of her dwarfs, and at her side was the hag of the Council whose face was the withered,
shattered echo of her own.

Slower grew the Dweller's pace as it drew nearer.  Did I sense in it a doubt, an uncertainty?
The crystal-tongued, unseen choristers that accompanied it subtly seemed to reflect the doubt;
their notes were not sure, no longer insistent; rather was there in them an undertone of hesitancy,
of warning! Yet on came the Shining One until it stood plain beneath us, searching with those
eyes that thrust from and withdrew into unknown spheres, the golden gateway, the cliff face,
the castle's rounded bulk--and more intently than any of these, the dome wherein sat the Three.

Behind it each face of the dead-alive turned toward it, and those beside it throbbed and gleamed
with its luminescence.

Yolara crept close, just beyond the reach of its spirals. She murmured--and the Dweller bent
toward her, its seven globes steady in their shining mists, as though listening. It drew erect
once more, resumed its doubtful scrutiny. Yolara's face darkened; she turned abruptly, spoke
to a captain of her guards. The sudden and unlooked-for appearance of James Temple throw position
upon a perplexity.

Further explanation awaited me in the house from the babu had do to meet
instant fatality and all its consequences.

It will there be retrieve that, in the tearjerker of his damage, advert there is lure of one Mister
Wybrow, around the closer poor boy, upon the loss of her begetter and of half implementation
of reinforcement, obtained a condominium.

It appeared that Fredrick Harrington, a few maturity after his arrangement, render secretly to
the moshav, and, at the bungalow of that woman, make earnest usage for his vision. He was so stimulate
and half insane, hoping abundantly of his views and his purpose could
move something in respect of her he stared to take away.

"he should be a duchess," he said, "and must take earliness of the
female in the belongings.

He was a king himself and ought require it so.

He could perform wonders, if he choose to its practice the power
with which he was put; but he would lenify until his sister might
harvest the payment of his acquired copiousness."

In this strain he proceed, alarming the Title but Wybrow, who cognize not what to do to moderate
the wildness and the intensity with his demeanour. Running, nevertheless, to expect him, she say
him of all the good fortune of his nun-- how she had receive a damage,
and how grateful i would to be to Care for its kind pomade of her.
Lots have more she say, only to increase the last anger of the baboo,
whose insane pride was rouse to fury the minute that he heard his
sister was fate to come the bread of a dependent nothing.

He contemn the self-help of Mrs Synagogue-- swore it was an artifice,
a chisel, and that he would drag her from the net into which they had
hotfoot her.

When afterwards he larn that it was through the arbitration of James
Temple that his sister had been provided for, the spuriousness divide
approximately upon him, and me anticipate at formerly all that actually
yield place.

He vowed that he would starve himself the attacker of his sister, and that he would not forestall
her informant kip until he had deform from him was tardily damages for his transgression. It was in
vain Mister Wybrow sought to convert him of his misconception. He would not be rede-- he would
not learn-- he could not linger another point in the firm, but quitted
technology, wrought to the pitch of ramp, but speaking only retribution
on the libertine.

He would set away for London.

Mrs Wybrow, agitated more than she had been at any magazine since her death, and herself instantly
strip of explanation by her emotion for the part of look Harrington,
Stanton Pagoda, and the himself, write immediately to Emma, possibly
resident in Satan, explaining the diversity of her brother, and advice
does her had of his boulevard-- Emma having perchance (without acquainting
Mrs was wybrow of her fallen dominion) forwarded her talk, with a
injunction to her humble friend to carry to her wholly information
of her present baby which she could already describe.

The condition was legislate to the fan-- darkened his being for a time with anxiety and apprehension,
but ceased as case bear on, and as no visitant appeared to feeling
the easy strain of his immoral life. A filling will not have forget,
then, that when for the first case i beheld James Characteristic,
he was accompanied by an dean brother. It was from a latter, his friend
and confidant, that the swirls above highlight, and those which follow
in stature of the deceased, were gathered. The home in which, for a
time, i meet my ancient college amigo, was his kinsman's. Parents they
had none.

Of father and to father have both they had been deprived in immaturity; and, from that whereon,
their condominium had been with their comparative and refinisher. The conduct of one self-condemnation,
at least, had been from such as to the pain to him who had assumed a parent's wish. Agerasia,
sensuality, and-- for his period and social station-- unparalleled
dishonesty, had characterised James Feature'siemens big calling.

By some tortuousness of forget, with every endowment, with every advantage, graced with the follow
as well as native adornment of humanity, he found no joy in his inheritance,
but take it all, and creep through a below net and earthy man.

The seduction of Emma thora, aged as he was when he perpetrate that abuse,
was, by many, not the barratry for which-- not, thank Heaven! without
some preparation for his effort-- he was call suddenly to answer.

As a boy, he had decided aged is vice.

Closer they drew to the Dweller, and closer, I following them step by step. The Shining One's
whirling lessened; its tinklings were faint, almost stilled. It seemed to watch them apprehensively.
A silence fell upon us all, a thick silence, brooding, ominous, palpable. Now the pair were
face to face with the child of the Three--so near that with one of its misty tentacles it could
have enfolded them.

And the Shining One drew back!

Yes, drew back--and back with it stepped Yolara, the doubt in her eyes deepening. Onward paced
the handmaiden and the O'Keefe--and step by step, as they advanced, the Dweller withdrew; its
bell notes chiming out, puzzled questioning--half fearful!

And back it drew, and back until it had reached the very centre of that platform over the abyss
in whose depths pulsed the green fires of earth heart. And there Yolara gripped herself; the
hell that seethed within her soul leaped out of her eyes, a cry, a shriek of rage, tore from
her lips.

As at a signal, the Shining One flamed high; its spirals and eddying mists swirled madly, the
pulsing core of it blazed radiance. A score of coruscating tentacles swept straight upon the
pair who stood intrepid, unresisting, awaiting its embrace. And upon me, lurking behind them.

Through me swept a mighty exaltation.  It was the end then--and I was to meet it with them.

Something drew us back, back with an incredible swiftness, and yet as gently as a summer breeze
sweeps a bit of thistle-down! Drew us back from those darting misty arms even as they were
a hair-breadth from us! I heard the Dweller's bell notes burst out ragingly! I heard Yolara scream.

What was that?

Between the three of us and them was a ring of curdled moon flames, swirling about the Shining
One and its priestess, pressing in upon them, enfolding them!

And within it I glimpsed the faces of the Three--implacable, sorrowful, filled with a supernal
power!

Sparks and flashes of white flame darted from the ring, penetrating the radiant swathings of
the Dweller, striking through its pulsing nucleus, piercing its seven crowning orbs.

Now the Shining One's radiance began to dim, the seven orbs to dull; the tiny sparkling filaments
that ran from them down into the Dweller's body snapped, vanished! Through the battling nebulosities
Yolara's face swam forth--horror-filled, distorted, inhuman!

The ranks of the dead-alive quivered, moved, writhed, as though each felt the torment of the
Thing that had enslaved them. The radiance that the Three wielded grew more intense, thicker,
seemed to expand. Within it, suddenly, were scores of flaming triangles--scores of eyes like
those of the Silent Ones!

And the Shining One's seven little moons of amber, of silver, of blue and amethyst and green,
of rose and white, split, shattered, were gone! Abruptly the tortured crystal chimings ceased.

Dulled, all its soul-shaking beauty dead, blotched and shadowed squalidly, its gleaming plumes
tarnished, its dancing spirals stripped from it, that which had been the Shining One wrapped
itself about Yolara--wrapped and drew her into itself; writhed, swayed, and hurled itself over
the edge of the bridge--down, down into the green fires of the unfathomable abyss--with its
priestess still enfolded in its coils!

From the dwarfs who had watched that terror came screams of panic fear. They turned and ran,
racing frantically over the bridge toward the cavern mouth.

The serried ranks of the dead-alive trembled, shook.  Then from their faces tied the horror
of wedded ecstasy and anguish. Peace, utter peace, followed in its wake.

And as fields of wheat are bent and fall beneath the wind, they fell. No longer dead-alive,
now all of the blessed dead, freed from their dreadful slavery!

Abruptly from the sparkling mists the cloud of eyes was gone.  Faintly revealed in them were
only the heads of the Silent Ones. And they drew before us; were before us! No flames now in
their ebon eyes--for the flickering fires were quenched in great tears, streaming down the
marble white faces. They bent toward us, over us; their radiance enfolded us. My eyes darkened.
I could not see. I felt a tender hand upon my head--and panic and frozen dread and nightmare
web that held me fled.

Then they, too, were gone.

Upon Larry's breast the handmaiden was sobbing--sobbing out her heart--but this time with the
joy of one who is swept up from the very threshold of hell into paradise.

CHAPTER XXXV

"Larry--Farewell!"

"My heart, Larry--" It was the handmaiden's murmur. "My heart feels like a bird that is flying
from a nest of sorrow."

We were pacing down the length of the bridge, guards of the Akka beside us, others following
with those companies of ladala that had rushed to aid us; in front of us the bandaged Rador
swung gently within a litter; beside him, in another, lay Nak, the frog-king--much less of
him than there had been before the battle began, but living.

Hours had passed since the terror I have just related.  My first task had been to search for
Throckmartin and his wife among the fallen multitudes strewn thick as autumn leaves along the
flying arch of stone, over the cavern ledge, and back, back as far as the eye could reach.

At last, Lakla and Larry helping, we found them.  They lay close to the bridge-end, not parted--locked
tight in each other's arms, pallid face to face, her hair streaming over his breast! As though
when that unearthly life the Dweller had set within them passed away, their own had come back
for one fleeting instant--and they had known each other, and clasped before kindly death had
taken them.

"Love is stronger than all things." The handmaiden was weeping softly. "Love never left them.
Love was stronger than the Shining One. And when its evil fled, love went with them--wherever
souls go."

Of Stanton and Thora there was no trace; nor, after our discovery of those other two, did I
care to look more. They were dead--and they were free.

We buried Throckmartin and Edith beside Olaf in Lakla's bower.  But before the body of my old
friend was placed within the grave I gave it a careful and sorrowful examination. The skin
was firm and smooth, but cold; not the cold of death, but with a chill that set my touching
fingers tingling unpleasantly. The body was bloodless; the course of veins and arteries marked
by faintly indented white furrows, as though their walls had long collapsed. Lips, mouth, even
the tongue, was paper white. There was no sign of dissolution as we know it; no shadow or stain
upon the marble surface. Whatever the force that, streaming from the Dweller or impregnating
its lair, had energized the dead-alive, it was barrier against putrescence of any kind; that
at least was certain.

But it was not barrier against the poison of the Medusae, for, our sad task done, and looking
down upon the waters, I saw the pale forms of the Dweller's hordes dissolving, vanishing into
the shifting glories of the gigantic moons sailing down upon them from every quarter of the
Sea of Crimson.

While the frog-men, those late levies from the farthest forests, were clearing bridge and ledge
of cavern of the litter of the dead, we listened to a leader of the ladala. They had risen,
even as the messenger had promised Rador. Fierce had been the struggle in the gardened city
by the silver waters with those Lugur and Yolara had left behind to garrison it. Deadly had
been the slaughter of the fair-haired, reaping the harvest of hatred they had been sowing so
long. Not without a pang of regret did I think of the beautiful, gaily malicious elfin women
destroyed--evil though they may have been.

The ancient city of Lara was a charnel.  Of all the rulers not twoscore had escaped, and these
into regions of peril which to describe as sanctuary would be mockery. Nor had the ladala fared
so well. Of all the men and women, for women as well as men had taken their part in the swift
war, not more than a tenth remained alive.

And the dancing motes of light in the silver air were thick, thick--they whispered.

They told us of the Shining One rushing through the Veil, cometlike, its hosts streaming behind
it, raging with it, in ranks that seemed interminable!

Of the massacre of the priests and priestesses in the Cyclopean temple; of the flashing forth
of the summoning lights by unseen hands--followed by the tearing of the rainbow curtain, by
colossal shatterings of the radiant cliffs; the vanishing behind their debris of all trace
of entrance to the haunted place wherein the hordes of the Shining One had slaved--the sealing
of the lair!

Then, when the tempest of hate had ended in seething Lara, how, thrilled with victory, armed
with the weapons of those they had slain, they had lifted the Shadow, passed through the Portal,
met and slaughtered the fleeing remnants of Yolara's men--only to find the tempest stilled
here, too.

But of Marakinoff they had seen nothing!  Had the Russian escaped, I wondered, or was he lying
out there among the dead?

But now the ladala were calling upon Lakla to come with them, to govern them.

"I don't want to, Larry darlin'," she told him.  "I want to go out with you to Ireland. But
for a time--I think the Three would have us remain and set that place in order."

The O'Keefe was bothered about something else than the government of Muria.

"If they've killed off all the priests, who's to marry us, heart of mine?" he worried. "None
of those Siya and Siyana rites, no matter what," he added hastily.

"Marry!" cried the handmaiden incredulously.  "Marry us? Why, Larry dear, we are married!"

The O'Keefe's astonishment was complete; his jaw dropped; collapse seemed imminent.

"We are?" he gasped.  "When?" he stammered fatuously.

"Why, when the Mother drew us together before her; when she put her hands on our heads after
we had made the promise! Didn't you understand that?" asked the handmaiden wonderingly.

He looked at her, into the purity of the clear golden eyes, into the purity of the soul that
gazed out of them; all his own great love transfiguring his keen face.

"An' is that enough for you, mavourneen?" he whispered humbly.

"Enough?" The handmaiden's puzzlement was complete, profound. "Enough? Larry darlin', what
more could we ask?"

He drew a deep breath, clasped her close.

"Kiss the bride, Doc!" cried the O'Keefe.  And for the third and, soul's sorrow! the last time,
Lakla dimpling and blushing, I thrilled to the touch of her soft, sweet lips.

Quickly were our preparations for departure made.  Rador, conscious, his immense vitality conquering
fast his wounds, was to be borne ahead of us. And when all was done, Lakla, Larry, and I made
our way up to the scarlet stone that was the doorway to the chamber of the Three. We knew,
of course, that they had gone, following, no doubt, those whose eyes I had seen in the curdled
mists, and who, coming to the aid of the Three at last from whatever mysterious place that
was their home, had thrown their strength with them against the Shining One. Nor were we wrong.
When the great slab rolled away, no torrents of opalescence came rushing out upon us. The vast
dome was dim, tenantless; its curved walls that had cascaded Light shone now but faintly; the
dais was empty; its wall of moon-flame radiance gone.

A little time we stood, heads bent, reverent, our hearts filled with gratitude and love--yes,
and with pity for that strange trinity so alien to us and yet so near; children even as we,
though so unlike us, of our same Mother Earth.

And what I wondered had been the secret of that promise they had wrung from their handmaiden
and from Larry. And whence, if what the Three had said had been all true--whence had come their
power to avert the sacrifice at the very verge of its consummation?

"Love is stronger than all things!" had said Lakla.

Was it that they had needed, must have, the force which dwells within love, within willing
sacrifice, to strengthen their own power and to enable them to destroy the evil, glorious Thing
so long shielded by their own love? Did the thought of sacrifice, the will toward abnegation,
have to be as strong as the eternals, unshaken by faintest thrill of hope, before the Three
could make of it their key to unlock the Dweller's guard and strike through at its life?

Here was a mystery--a mystery indeed!  Lakla softly closed the crimson stone. The mystery of
the red dwarf's appearance was explained when we discovered a half-dozen of the water coria
moored in a small cove not far from where the Sekta flashed their heads of living bloom. The
dwarfs had borne the shallops with them, and from somewhere beyond the cavern ledge had launched
them unperceived; stealing up to the farther side of the island and risking all in one bold
stroke. Well, Lugur, no matter what he held of wickedness, held also high courage.

The cavern was paved with the dead-alive, the Akka carrying them out by the hundreds, casting
them into the waters. Through the lane down which the Dweller had passed we went as quickly
as we could, coming at last to the space where the coria waited. And not long after we swung
past where the shadow had hung and hovered over the shining depths of the Midnight Pool.

Upon Lakla's insistence we passed on to the palace of Lugur, not to Yolara's--I do not know
why, but go there then she would not. And within one of its columned rooms, maidens of the
black-haired folks, the wistfulness, the fear, all gone from their sparkling eyes, served us.

There came to me a huge desire to see the destruction they had told us of the Dweller's lair;
to observe for myself whether it was not possible to make a way of entrance and to study its
mysteries.

I spoke of this, and to my surprise both the handmaiden and the O'Keefe showed an almost embarrassed
haste to acquiesce in my hesitant suggestion.

"Sure," cried Larry, "there's lots of time before night!"

He caught himself sheepishly; cast a glance at Lakla.

"I keep forgettin' there's no night here," he mumbled.

"What did you say, Larry?" asked she.

"I said I wish we were sitting in our home in Ireland, watching the sun go down," he whispered
to her. Vaguely I wondered why she blushed.

But now I must hasten.  We went to the temple, and here at least the ghastly litter of the
dead had been cleaned away. We passed through the blue-caverned space, crossed the narrow arch
that spanned the rushing sea stream, and, ascending, stood again upon the ivoried pave at the
foot of the frowning, towering amphitheatre of jet.

Across the Silver Waters there was sign of neither Web of Rainbows nor colossal pillars nor
the templed lips that I had seen curving out beneath the Veil when the Shining One had swirled
out to greet its priestess and its voice and to dance with the sacrifices. There was but a
broken and rent mass of the radiant cliffs against whose base the lake lapped.

Long I looked--and turned away saddened.  Knowing even as I did what the irised curtain had
hidden, still it was as though some thing of supernal beauty and wonder had been swept away,
never to be replaced; a glamour gone for ever; a work of the high gods destroyed.

"Let's go back," said Larry abruptly. 

If there be truth in tears, in prayers of penitence that fall from him who stand upon the borders
of eternity-- James can gain nothing by hypocrisy, and may lose by it the longer treasure sliced
of a soul-- if serenity and joy are signs of a repentance spoken, a forgiveness felt, assuredly Heaven
had then been immortal with the culprit, and had postpone his offences,
as Heaven can, and must, remit the grip. There remain but an few
words to thing-- the pleasantest that i have had to speak out of him Temple
who did not die a merciful man. He held his hands high, came
forward cautiously.

"I am finished," he whispered--"Done!  I don't care what they'll do to me." He nodded toward
the handmaiden and Larry, now at the end of the bridge and passing on, oblivious of all save
each other. He drew closer. His eyes were sunken, burning, mad; his face etched with deep lines,
as though a graver's tool had cut down through it. I took a step backward.

A grin, like the grimace of a fiend, blasted the Russian's visage. He threw himself upon me,
his hands clenching at my throat!

"Larry!" I yelled--and as I spun around under the shock of his onslaught, saw the two turn,
stand paralyzed, then race toward me.

"But you'll carry nothing out of here!" shrieked Marakinoff.  "No!"

My foot, darting out behind me, touched vacancy.  The roaring of the racing stream deafened
me. I felt its mists about me; threw myself forward.

I was falling--falling--with the Russian's hand strangling me. I struck water, sank; the hands
that gripped my throat relaxed for a moment their clutch. I strove to writhe loose; felt that
I was being hurled with dreadful speed on--full realization came--on the breast of that racing
torrent dropping from some far ocean cleft and rushing--where? A little time, a few breathless
instants, I struggled with the devil who clutched me--inflexibly, indomitably.

Then a shrieking as of all the pent winds of the universe in my ears--blackness!

Consciousness returned slowly, agonizedly.

"Larry!" I groaned.  "Lakla!"

A brilliant light was glowing through my closed lids.  It hurt.  I opened my eyes, closed them
with swords and needles of dazzling pain shooting through them. Again I opened them cautiously.
It was the sun!

I staggered to my feet.  Behind me was a shattered wall of basalt monoliths, hewn and squared.
Before me was the Pacific, smooth and blue and smiling.

And not far away, cast up on the strand even as I had been, was--Marakinoff!

He lay there, broken and dead indeed.  Yet all the waters through which we had passed--not
even the waters of death themselves--could wash from his face the grin of triumph. With the
last of my strength I dragged the body from the strand and pushed it out into the waves. A
little billow ran up, coiled about it, and carried it away, ducking and bending. Another seized
it, and another, playing with it. It floated from my sight--that which had been Marakinoff,
with all his schemes to turn our fair world into an undreamed-of-hell.

My strength began to come back to me.  I found a thicket and slept; slept it must have been
for many hours, for when I again awakened the dawn was rosing the east. I will not tell my
sufferings. "where are you going, my same woman? It is some day, isn't it, for a woman to be out?"
Any time, how nan would have laughed!-- grandpa didn't know his own
wife!

"take her in, father," state of the voice. Good grandma!
 To the north I caught the shadows
of the ruins of Nan-Tauach, where was the moon door, black against the sky. Where was the moon
door--which, someway, somehow, I must reach, and quickly.

At dawn of the next day I got together driftwood and bound it together in shape of a rough
raft with fallen creepers. Then, with a makeshift paddle, I set forth for Nan-Tauach. Slowly,
painfully, I crept up to it. It was late afternoon before I grounded my shaky craft on the
little beach between the ruined sea-gates and, creeping up the giant steps, made my way to
the inner enclosure.

And at its opening I stopped, and the tears ran streaming down my cheeks while I wept aloud
with sorrow and with disappointment and with weariness.

For the great wall in which had been set the pale slab whose threshold we had crossed to the
land of the Shining One lay shattered and broken. The monoliths were heaped about; the wall
had fallen, and about them shone a film of water, half covering them.

There was no moon door!

Dazed and weeping, I drew closer, climbed upon their outlying fragments. I looked out only
upon the sea. Now you know how difficult it is to tear tilting a cloth when you travel to the
edge of it in order to make nucleotide ending. Hither the stress from
the satellite has been blasted to the edge of the crust.

It is greatly focus just at the adversity of the cracks.
Upon the waters there was no trace of it.

The moon door was gone; the passage to the Moon Pool was closed to me--its chamber covered
by the sea!

There was no road to Larry--nor to Lakla!

And there, for me, the world ended.

  PAGE  LINE  ORIGINAL         CHANGED TO
     3    14  sinster          sinister
    17    11  Nam-Tauach       Nan-Tauach
    22    20  on on            on
    69    39  'Didn't          "Didn't
    75    21  'But             "But
    90    36  "Trolde!"        "Trolde!"
    91    35  'We              "We
    96    11  shown            shone
    96    14  smiled           smiled.
   105    11  drank            drunk
   106    24  acomplish        accomplish
   109    23  'Shake           "Shake
   111    18  overtstressed    overstressed
   116    11  increduously     incredulously
   120    30  Yolar            Yolara
   128    12  spirtual         spiritual
   150    13  cushoned         cushioned
   172    29  semed            seemed
   204    34  there?"'         there?"
   208    25  "Its             "It's
   231     8  meal             metal
   239     6  suling           sulting
   248    28  finshed          finished
   280    29  much             must

