THE FOREST KING;

OR,

THE WILD HUNTER OF THE ADACA.

A Tale of the Seventeen Century

NEW YORK: WHEAT & CORNETT, PRINTERS, NO. 8 SPRUCE ST. 1878.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1878, by HERVEY KEYES, in the Office of the
Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C.

PREFACE.

To Mayall the Valley of the Mohawk was a land where flowers bloomed, where one fair girl flitted
about through green glades and virgin forests, and lifted his mind to the supernatural, and
he seemed to listen to the voice of seraphs. Then sweet memory brought him again to the morning
of life, and he stood by his mother's knee, and leaned upon the cradle where he was rocked
to soothe his infant mind. Again he rose to manhood. The power of the music of the groves,
and the sweet voice of Nelly Gordon, was the angel of the moment, that unlocked the harmony
of the universe. Her eyes appeared as pure as the first rays of morning, as it danced on the
heaven-kissed hills of Paradise. Her heart expanded with thankfulness, as she thought how rich
she was in everything that made life desirable to Mayall, her lover. She longed to give out
the stores of her own happiness, and Mayall seemed to think this lovely girl had a special
claim on him for life, which he seemed proud to admit and willing to accept, as the richest
gift that Heaven could bestow upon man was Nelly Gordon.

       *       *       *       *       *

In writing this short history of Mayall and his family, the hunter and trapper of the Valley
of the Adaca, I have gathered the main facts from the first settlers in my youthful days, who
found him in this then wild but beautiful valley, a place of bloom and shade, dimpled on the
face of creation with a smile that renders life pleasing in solitude. The song of birds, and
the music of the rills that came rushing down the ravines, to water the flowers and swell the
rapid current of the Adaca, under the arching of the woodland forest that hung out its green
plumes to wave in every breath of summer, formed an earthly Paradise, in Mayall's estimation.

The bounty and grandeur of Eastern cities faded into insignificance, when compared with his
surroundings; for here he reigned lord of the valley's long and wide domain, that abounded
in deer, game and furred animals, whilst its streams swarmed with fish. He was truly one of
Nature's noblemen--kind and affectionate to his beautiful and lovely wife and children, charitable
and humane to all. He was ready at all times to hazard his own life to assist a friend. When
attacked by his enemies, he seemed to anticipate all their designs at a glance, and destroyed
them without remedy. After the storm of the Revolution had passed away, and the muttering of
its thunder was no longer to be heard, adventurers from the East, who were searching for new
homes in the productive valleys of Tryon County, found this Friend, as he styled himself, and
settled on the same stream, charmed by the beautiful forests, the crystal streams, and the
fertility of the soil.

The history of this remarkable hunter is wrapped in mystery. His daring adventures, his wonderful
escapes from danger, his presence of mind in the most trying scenes of danger, all combine
to render his life wonderful. With his chosen companion to rear a family amid the wild scenes
of Nature, far from the civilized world, surrounded by the wild beasts of the forest, he worshiped
at the shrine of Nature's God, and gloried in the wild scenes of beauty. The romantic courtship
and marriage of Esock Mayall with the adopted daughter of a famous Indian chief, her grace
of manners, her remarkable beauty, and courage in time of danger, her journey to her new forest
home and return to the land of her birth, seem to be one of the great events of Providence,
together with her journey to Niagara Falls with the Indian chief, her father, to witness the
sacrifice of a young Indian maiden of high rank to the Great Spirit of the Falls.

CHAPTER I.

In the romantic days of the frontier settlers of Tryon County, there lived in the valley of
the Mohawk River a young man by the name of Mayall. He was by nature strong, courageous and
active, always foremost in pursuit of the Indians that lurked about the advanced settlements
of the whites. Mayall was young and handsome, and would have been considered a prize for a
young lady of merit, who was not looking for a companion that possessed lands and money. He
seemed to be a favorite among the young ladies of the Mohawk Valley who dressed in linsey-woolsey--I
mean that class

    "Who slept on down their early rising bought,
    And wore the garments their own hands had spun"--

but was looked upon with suspicion by some of the more aristocratic and wealthy, who possessed
broad farms and extensive grants of land, and wished to trace the pedigree of their relatives
to some old ancestral pile, surrounded with wide-spread manors.

Mayall was a hero by nature, and had all the quickness of perception to carry it out successfully;
and yet he had cultivated the most refined manners of that wild, romantic age. He was fond
of hunting, as the abundance of game and furred animals gave the hunter a rich reward. Mayall
had reached his majority, and had become enamored of a beautiful young lady of a wealthy family,
the only daughter and heir to a rich inheritance, by the name of Nelly G., who returned his
advances in the same warmth of love and fidelity. As soon as the parents of the young lady
became aware of Mayall's intentions and their daughter's attachment to young Mayall, they commenced
a furious and determined opposition, and refused to allow Mayall to visit their daughter or
even enter their house. Mayall took the matter calmly, and was no longer seen at the house
of the farmer, but found many opportunities to meet the lady of his choice at evening parties
and places of amusement. Their love was mutual, and every reasonable means was used to overcome
the objections of the lady's parents--but all seemed in vain. They had promised the heart and
hand of their daughter to the son of a wealthy farmer (a distant relative), who was void of
merit, and one who was despised by the young lady, on account of his awkward manner of behavior,
and his ignorance of what constituted a well-bred gentleman. Nelly G. informed her father and
mother that she chose a companion and protector without money, in preference to money and lands
without a companion and protector.

One sunny morning, in summer's golden days, when the Valley of the Mohawk appeared like an
Eden outstretched in loveliness, and bowed in summer's rosy bloom, the father of Mayall's intended
wife saw Mayall coming with hurried steps towards his house, dressed in a green hunting-frock
and cap with a green plume shading his forehead, a double-barreled carbine in his hand, with
a tomahawk and hunting-knife sheathed in his belt, which was the favorite dress of a hunter
when rambling through the green, overgrown forests of the Valley of the Mohawk, to prevent
being noticed by wild game or Indians.

Fearing he might have some message for his daughter, whom he did not intend he should see,
he started hastily towards him, to intercept him and turn him back before he reached his house.
He met Mayall some distance from his house, and forbid his nearer approach.

"I have a message for you and your daughter, which will freeze her young blood and wring her
heart with pain, and make your eyes start like stars from their spheres, whilst each hair upon
your head will stand erect like the quills of the affrighted porcupine."

The farmer's courage failed, and his knees began to tremble and smite each other like Belshazzar's;
for he had heard of the undaunted courage and manly bearing of young Mayall in times of danger.

"Look yonder," said Mayall, as he pointed his carbine up the Valley of the Mohawk. "Do you
see the smoke and flames that light up the concave of the skies? That is the funeral pile of
your friend and neighbor. Around that fire stands the savage band that have come to plunder
and burn your houses and barns, lay waste your fields, and murder and scalp your wife and daughter,
Nelly G.; and now where can I find her?"

"She is at the house," said the farmer, "and her horse is in the stable."

"Then come with me," said Mayall; "there is not a moment to lose; flee for your life, and the
life of your wife and daughter. I will guard and defend your property."

Mayall ran to the stable, and in a few moments appeared before the farmer's house with Nelly's
horse, saddled and bridled, and called for Nelly, who quickly appeared at the door in a plain
homespun dress.

"Mount this horse," said Mayall, "and flee for your life to the fort, a place of safety."

"Wait a moment," said Nelly, "until I change my dress."

"No," said Mayall, "your retreat may be intercepted; there is death in delay. The Indians are
near, your father and mother will soon follow you to the fort. Tell the commander to fire the
alarm-gun, for the valley is swarming with Indians."

Mayall kissed Nelly's hand and said, "My prayer is that Heaven may protect you. There is no
time to lose in useless words."

Nelly leaped upon the saddle, and the spirited animal took the nearest road for the fort, and
in a few moments was lost from sight by the thick grove through which she had to pass. Mayall's
eyes followed her lovely form until it vanished in the sylvan shade, and then hastened to get
her father and mother on the way to a place of safety.

Mayall, fearing that he might have been discovered by the Indians, made a hasty retreat to
the nearest woods in the direction of the fort, until he disappeared among the shrubbery. Then,
returning by a circuitous route, hid in a thicket from which he could have a view of the road
leading to the farmer's house. He had scarcely reached his hiding-place before he heard the
booming of the alarm-gun at the fort, which thrilled through his bosom with a joyful sound
and gave a fresh impulse to all his energies, as it echoed from mountain-top to mountain and
glen, on all the forest hills that bordered the then wild Valley of the Mohawk, and seemed
to say, "Nolly is safe."

Mayall had but a few minutes to reflect on what had been accomplished, before he espied from
his hiding-place five Indians coming up the road leading to the house. Mayall fired both barrels
of his carbine, bringing down the two foremost Indians, and without loss of time had his gun
in readiness for two more. Then, looking out from his hiding-place, he saw the three remaining
Indians retreating in great haste, leaving young Mayall master of the farm and buildings. The
inhabitants of the valley rushed for the fort at the sound of the alarm-gun; but several were
overtaken by the Indians, and scalped and murdered in the most inhuman manner. But Mayall kept
guard over the farm and buildings. The Indians made quick work in plundering and burning dwellings,
and murdering all the helpless women and children that fell in their way, and then made a quick
retreat towards Canada. After the Indians had left, and the terror-stricken inhabitants had
returned to their farms and once-loved homes, only to find many of them a heap of ashes, the
old farmer returned with his wife and daughter, and found Mayall walking about keeping guard
over his farm and dwelling. He had buried the two Indians and was enjoying a season of rest.
Mayall greeted them all with the warmest friendship, and felt happy when he saw them once more
safe in their own house, which he had saved from the Indians' torch. But the ungrateful farmer
and his wife treated Mayall with cold neglect, if not contempt. The old farmer had seen his
intended son-in-law and spent a few days with him at the fort, and renewed his promise to give
him his daughter in marriage without her consent, and in spite of her most earnest protest.

And now, reader, put yourself in her place, and meditate awhile, and see if you would have
done as she did.

Nelly was a wild, lovely girl by nature, and had added to her store of knowledge many of the
accomplishments of education. She had pledged her hand and heart to Mayall, and said she would
go with him to some deep, unknown valley of the wilderness, before she would live with a man
she hated and could not love, and informed Mayall that her father was determined to have the
wedding take place the next Wednesday. She said she once knew a lady who was separated from
her lover, and yielded to her parents' choice, who lived in perpetual torment, surrounded by
a profusion of wealth. In a few years she pined away, and died broken-hearted, entered Charon's
boat with her first love, and sailed over the River of Death together, to join their friends
on the Elysian Fields of Paradise, and left her parents and the man of their choice digging
in the mud and dust for gold. But that lady was not Nelly Gordon. She would sooner seek the
wild wood's shade; for, "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred
therewith." "I would yield all due respect to my parents, remain single, and cheer them in
the winter of their declining years; make downy pillows for their aching heads, and ring their
funeral knell; but, oh, misery! when they attempt to force me to take a partner for life, not
worthy the name of a man, for his property, I shudder at the thought, and my better judgment
compels me to rebel against parental authority. They have gone thus far without my consent--have
even invited the guests; and I assure you the groom may come, but the bride will be absent."

Mayall's mind was made up at a glance, for he had long known Nelly's love and fidelity to him,
which, he had returned with the kindest respect, and said to Nelly: "If you dare trust yourself
in my care, meet me at the large gate that leads to the highway as soon as your father and
mother retire to rest, with such articles of clothing as you may need on your journey, and
we will fly to some green valley of the West. I will see that your horse is in readiness. I
have a friend that will accompany us to Cherry Valley, and return with the horses before the
morning star rises, which will prevent our place of retreat being discovered."

As soon as Nelly's father and mother were lost in dreamless slumbers, Nelly passed out of her
chamber with noiseless steps, carrying her wearing apparel in a bundle, closely packed, and
found Mayall and his friend in readiness, with three horses saddled and equipped for the journey.
The company were quickly mounted on three spirited horses, and reached Cherry Valley at eleven
o'clock P. M.--a place Nelly had never seen before. No cottage window showed the light of a
taper; but the light of the full moon fell in tranquil loveliness upon the rounded hill-tops,
and the glittering stars added their beauty to the heavens, while the green forest and flowering
shrubbery clothed the earth with beauty, and the sweet-scented clover perfumed the surrounding
air. The company dismounted under a broad, spreading forest tree at the south end of the village,
near which ran a little rivulet, that meandered in graceful curves southward. Here Mayall and
Nelly G. gave the hand of their friend a hearty shake, and an affectionate farewell, enjoining
on him the strictest secrecy as he started on his return journey to the Valley of the Mohawk,
which he reached just in time to return Nolly's horse to her father's stable and his own to
the pasture, before the morning sun dashed her light on all the western hills, and painted
the surrounding groves in all the glory of summer.

The father of Nelly awoke with the morning light, and called for his lovely daughter to rise
and behold the beauties of the morning. No voice gave back the welcome response. He called
again. The voice that used to cheer him with her morning song was far away with her lover.
Her bedchamber was as silent as the house of death. He rushed wildly about his outbuildings,
calling for his Nelly. No answer came, as usual, floating on the morning breeze, to greet his
listening ear. He returned to the house. His wife had searched in vain for her daughter; but
found her most valuable wearing apparel was missing, which told a sad tale, whilst no traces
could be found of her place of retreat. Next the stable was examined, and Nelly's horse was
found as he had left him the night previous. He rode to every place where he thought she would
be likely to go, but no trace could be found. He inquired for Mayall, and was told that he
was seen the evening before equipped for a hunting excursion. He returned home in grief and
loneliness. His house no longer echoed to the musical voice of his lovely daughter. His wife,
who had been the most anxious for her daughter to marry a farm instead of a man of worth, now
began to murmur and find fault with her husband for his unkindness to Mayall, who had saved
their lives and the life of their daughter, and protected their property. She could then see
how nobly he had acted, and shielded them from the tomahawk and scalping-knife of the Indians;
and now their only daughter had flown to his arms for protection, and to reward him for his
noble deeds of humanity--flown from a man she was determined never to marry.

"Has she not frequently told you she had rather have a brave and noble youth without money,
than to have a coward she hated with his land and money--that, should his money be lost by
misfortune, she would only have the wreck of a man left? And now she is gone, perhaps we shall
never see her face again; and, what is worse than all, we have been the cause of our own misfortunes
by our own folly and blindness. Had we heeded her warnings we might have enjoyed a pleasant
life, with our daughter to cheer us in our declining years; and the brave young man to defend us."

    From cloudy turrets evening crept
      To watch the day's retreating light,
    Then o'er the heavenly pavement swept
      The trailing garments of the night,
    By God's own hand was quick unfurled;
      Then came the mighty roll-call of the skies,
    And Nelly, at her father's gate,
      Quickly answered, "Here am I!"

On the appointed day the man possessed of land and money came to receive his lovely bride--but,
oh, what grief! the bird had flown to the wilderness--there to dwell in some green valley,
there to build her nest and rear her young, far from the haunts of men, and cook the hunter's
savory fare, and wear the beaver's richest furs, when sullen winter there may frown.

The day was turned into a day of sadness and mourning, and at evening the guests returned home
gloomy and disappointed. A month of grief and loneliness passed away, and Nelly's father learned,
from one of the early settlers of Cherry Valley, that, on the day following the evening that
Nelly left her father's home, she was married at Cherry Valley, by a clergyman of that place,
to a young man by the name of Mayall, and had not been seen or heard from since. A search was
made to discover Mayall's place of residence; but it all proved useless, as no trace of his
place of retreat could be found. The father and mother of Nelly G. lived and died without seeing
again the face of their lovely daughter. Soon after Nelly G. changed her name to Nelly Mayall
her father and mother met with many reverses of fortune, their property vanished away like
dew before the morning sun. The Revolutionary war broke out, a party of Tories and Indians
visited the Valley of the Mohawk for plunder, their buildings were burned, their property taken,
and they fell a sacrifice to the tomahawk and scalping-knife. After the war had ended, and
one adventurer after another came to the Valley of the Adaca to select homes, Nelly Mayall
learned of the sad fate of her parents. She dressed her hat with the dark plumes of the birds
of the forest, and for a time mourned their sad fate. Time passed on--the changing beauties
of the forest scenery, the kind attention of her devoted husband and the prattling of her children,
once more revived her drooping spirits, and she was again Nelly Mayall, with all her youthful
charms.

CHAPTER II.

    "Fresh from the fountains of the wood
      A rivulet to the valley came,
    And glided on for many a rood,
      Flushed with the morning's ruddy flame;
    The air was fresh and soft and sweet,
      The slopes in spring's new verdure lay,
    And, wet with dewdrops, at my feet
      Bloomed the young violets of May.
    No sound of busy life was heard
      Amid those forests lone and still,
    Save the faint chirp of early bird,
      Or bleat of deer along the hill.
    I traced the rivulet's winding way,
      New scenes of beauty opened round.
    Where woody shades of brightest green
      And lovely blossoms tinged the ground.
    'Ah, happy valley stream,' I said,
      'Calm glides thy waters 'mid the flowers,
    Whose fragrance round my path is shed
      Through all the joyous summer hours.'"

After the storm of the Revolution had passed away, and the Angel of Peace once more brooded
over the forest, there was a daring hunter with his family found living in the Valley of the
Adaca, now called Otego Creek, by the name of Mayall, who had become perfectly familiar with
every hill, mountain, valley and glen for many miles around his humble cottage. He led a wild
and romantic life, living and lodging wherever night overtook him, when the distance was so
great that he could not reach his home, where the smoke of his cottage fire curled in blue
wreaths over the forest trees, whilst its walls furnished a safe abode for his wife and children
from the wild beasts of the forest. His cabin was strongly built of logs, with small windows,
which looked more like port-holes to a fort than windows. A deep hole was dug beneath his cottage
floor, from which there was a secret passage leading under the foundation outside, that one
might make his escape, if necessary. A bed of straw was thrown down into this hole, and here
his children slept, descending by means of a trap-door, which was closed in time of danger,
and made a safe retreat against the wild beasts of the forest in his absence. There was abundance
of game scattered over the forest, and the multitude of furred animals that inhabited the valleys
and congregated along the streams, living on the swarms of fish that then abounded in every
mountain rill, made it an easy matter to support his table with fresh and dried venison, choice
fowls and speckled trout, whilst the furred animals, that were abundant, would furnish him
with clothing to protect him from the frosts of winter.

About the year 1774 this wild forester was found cultivating a small spot of ground near a
little crystal rill that flowed from a deep gorge in the hill. Eastward of his cabin was a
high bluff of rocks, crowned with lofty pines, that overlooked the valley, which stretched
away towards the Susquehanna. From this rocky promontory the forest appeared unbroken, excepting
the small spot cleared by his own hands, and seemed to lie beneath this rocky throne in tranquil
loveliness. Here at his cottage, when at home, his wife cooked his frugal but delicious repast.
The Oneida tribe of Indians made their main path to the Susquehanna Valley through the Valley
of the Otego Creek, for the purpose of procuring their yearly supply of lead, which they used
to carry away in abundance. The first settlers of this valley used to say that they would leave
Laurens Village, and, after an absence of two or three hours, return loaded with their yearly
supply; yet, with all the search that has been made by the white race, this mine remains a
secret, known only to the red man to this day, and probably will remain so until the end of
time, unless found by accident. This state of affairs moved on quietly until the breaking out
of the Revolution. Great Britain, with her warlike bands, invaded the eastern and southern
coast, whilst the Indian tribes westward, aided by the Canadians and Tories, swarmed through
all the western forests.

Mayall began to shun them as much as convenient. They appeared very different from the Oneidas,
and seemed now to be hunting for men and plunder, instead of wild game. They cleared away and
made their war-paths more plain along the broad-armed Susquehanna and her tributaries. They
came, painted and plumed for the fray, with their scalp-locks waving in the air; and the frightful
war-whoop echoed through the valley and died away upon the mountain top, frightening the wild
beasts to their lair, as they marched towards the nearest settlements, to kindle the terror-awakening
fire, and massacre and plunder the inhabitants. The war-whoop awoke the child from the cradle--the
infant was torn from its mother's arms, the aged fell by the tomahawk and scalping-knife, and
the earth fattened with their blood. Such was the state of affairs when autumn arrived, and
hung out her flag of many colors from the forest trees over hill and vale, as the sun, with
fiery crest, gilded every forest tree with the glory of the season, whilst the bold hunter
gathered in the ripening fruit to increase his scanty winter store. The furred animals had
now put on their winter robes, which nature so wisely prepares for their comfort during the
frosts of winter.

Mayall, who styled himself one of that religious sect called Friends, in order to soothe the
fears of his enemies, always hailed them, wherever he met them, as friends.

Autumn, with him, was the season for rambling and hunting to lay in his winter store of furs
and provisions, and he prepared for a hunting excursion up the Cherry Valley Creek. The next
morning, when the first rays of light appeared in the east, he was seen to emerge from his
cabin with a knapsack of provisions on his back, a bundle of traps thrown over his shoulder,
powder-horn and bullet-pouch by his side, and his trusty gun in his hand. Thus equipped, he
took an eastward course for the Cherry Valley Creek. At the head of that creek was the nearest
settlement, where he sometimes went to dispose of his furs and purchase stores and ammunition,
distant from his home about twenty-seven miles. As soon as he reached the mouth of the stream,
which is a tributary of the Susquehanna, he began to reconnoitre the stream, and set his traps
wherever signs appeared of beaver, animated with the prospect of a rich harvest of furs and
venison. He had not proceeded far before he saw a fine buck, which had come to the creek to
drink. He instantly raised his trusty gun to his face. A flash and report, and the noble animal
fell dead upon the bank of the stream. The day had now far advanced, and he drew his knife
from its sheath and dressed his venison with dispatch. He then hung up three of the quarters
upon the trees, cutting off a limb to form a hook on which it would hang safely from the wolves
that were nightly prowling along the stream. He then took the remaining quarter and wrapped
it up in the skin of the buck, retired into a thick, dark swamp that lay near the stream, until
he reached a large, spreading hemlock, that afforded a convenient resting-place at its root.
Here, in this dense thicket, he built a small fire, examined his trusty gun, and laid down
to rest. He afterward said he used every caution, for he had three enemies upon his track--the
panther, the wolf and the red man. The night seemed to pass away quietly, excepting the howling
of a wolf occasionally upon a distant hill, which gave him no uneasiness. Rosy morn soon appeared,
and he could see the sun send his blush upon the highest hills, from his camping-ground in
the swamp. He then prepared his breakfast, and feasted on the loin of the buck that he had
killed the day previous. Emerging from the swamp, he intended to examine his traps, and then
take the skin of the buck and the choicest part of the venison to his family. In this calculation
he was sadly disappointed; for, as he proceeded along a path near the stream, suddenly three
Indian warriors appeared in the path before him. He walked directly up to the party and said,
"Good morning, brothers." They returned the compliment by saying, "Good morning, brother."
One of the party said, "Let me see your gun." He handed it out. The Indian took from his pocket
a knife and turned back the screws that held the lock, and then took the lock and put it in
his pocket, handing the gun back to Mayall, informing him that he must go with them. Mayall
bit his lips in silence, to think a hunter who had faced his enemies in every form could be
so easily frustrated in his plans. They then informed him that they were on the war-path and
he must consider himself their prisoner, to which he made no reply.

They immediately commenced their march in the following order: the stoutest Indian led the
march, next came Mayall, the prisoner, followed by two Indian warriors. In this manner they
marched down the creek, and then down the Susquehanna, to a place near where the Schenevus
mingles with and loses its name in the waters of the Susquehanna. Here they encamped for the
night, and after starting their camp-fire in a thicket of hemlocks, they all four eat their
supper from the venison cooked by Mayall in the morning. Then, binding their prisoner's hands
behind him, and tying his feet firmly together, they laid down to sleep, with an Indian on
each side and the remaining one to keep guard. As soon as the blaze of the fire died away,
Mayall tried to disengage his hands, which began to pain him cruelly, but all in vain. If he
could once free himself, he could reach his home before the sun could rise again, and once
more see his wife and children; but six miles of forest parted them at this time, on a straight
line. Oh, the misery of being dragged from home! And who could foretell his fate? Was he to
wear the bearskin moccasin, and be tied to the fatal stake and burned for Indians' sport, and
his poor family left to starve and perish amid the frosts of a long, dreary winter? He dreamed
of the red war-post, the terrific dance of the red man round his burning victim, and all the
refined torture of the savage. Morning broke his dreams; the sun again kissed the mountain-top.
Mayall was unbound--his mind became calm, his resolution was formed. It was the last night
that he was to endure the horrors of being bound. Little did the Indians know the danger of
driving to desperation so terrible a foe, who was perfectly acquainted with the forest many
leagues around them. The Indian warriors soon resumed their march in the same order of the
previous day, but with greater haste. They moved forward rapidly, as if they feared an enemy
in the rear. Mayall scanned every movement with the eye of the vulture, for a chance to deal
the deadly blow upon his captors. The day seemed to wear away without an opportunity for the
deadly combat, until they halted at a ford above where the village of Unadilla now stands.
Here they held a parley, as the stream was swollen and rapid. Mayall looked on in sullen silence,
as he began to feel the demon rise. He said he soon felt the courage of a lion, and the strength
of a Samson before he had trifled with Delilah.

They hesitated for a short time over the danger. The foremost warrior finally ventured into
the stream with his rifle and it was with great difficulty he kept his footing. He struggled
against the rushing waters, and finally reached the opposite bank; the second one now stepped
into the stream and ordered Mayall to follow. Mayall made every appearance of preparing to
follow, until the Indian reached the rapid current; then, turning suddenly upon the Indian
on the shore, at one blow with the stock of his gun he laid him dead at his feet. As quick
as thought, before his body had fairly reached the ground, Mayall seized his rifle and shot
the Indian in the stream. Then tearing the Indian's belt from his body (for it was hurrying
times), he jumped behind the trunk of the nearest tree that would shelter him, as a ball from
the Indian's rifle on the opposite bank whistled by his head, which he had anticipated, and
moved as quickly as possible, to avoid his deadly aim. They now stood on opposite banks, each
behind the trunk of a tree, with an empty rifle in their hands. The rifles were quickly loaded
and prepared for the deadly combat, and the life of one at least must be sacrificed. After
Mayall's gun was in readiness he cautiously peered out; but seeing the Indian's rifle aimed
directly at him he dodged suddenly back, just in time to save his life; for the very instant
Mayall dodged back his head, a ball from the Indian's rifle grazed the bark of the tree, and
whistled away among the forest trees. Mayall now thought of taking the advantage of the Indian
by aiming his rifle directly at his hiding-place and firing at the first appearance of the
Indian's head, but in this he was disappointed; for the Indian, seeing Mayall's rifle aimed
at his head, drew it back so quickly that the ball cut a channel in the bark where the Indian's
eye appeared. Mayall loaded again as hastily as possible, and stood for a moment, hesitating
what course to pursue, satisfied that the Indian warrior was his equal in aim and courage.
He cast his eye back into the forest, and readily saw the trees stood thick, and by drawing
the Indian's fire he could make a quick and safe retreat. But that would not answer--he would
be hunted down and surprised, and his life would never be safe. Mayall quickly resolved that
the Indian or himself must fall on that ground, and the only means now left him was stratagem.
He drew his ramrod from his rifle, and putting his hat on the end, pushed it out carefully,
to prevent the Indian from discovering the deception. It had the desired effect; for scarcely
had the hat shown its full size outside the trunk of the tree, before the Indian sent a ball
from his rifle through the hat, which Mayall lowered quickly to the ground, and then listened
with breathless anxiety the result. In this condition he waited a long time.

All was silent as the tomb, excepting now and then the scream of a fish-hawk or the singing
of a hermit-thrush that had approached the bank of the river after the firing had ceased, and
seemed singing the funeral dirge of the red warriors who had already fallen. All of a sudden
the thrush flew past Mayall into the forest, and the practiced ear of Mayall heard a rippling
in the stream, like running water dashing against some slight obstruction. Anticipating the
approach of the Indian warrior, he stepped suddenly from behind the tree, whilst the Indian
was struggling with the current, and sent a ball from his rifle through the warrior's heart.
He then floated down the rapid current, and sunk in the deep water below the rift.

Mayall then took his gunlock from the pocket of the Indian on the shore, who had stayed behind
to engineer and direct the crossing, placed it upon his own gun, dragged the Indian into the
current of the river, and he, too, floated down, and sunk with the first two in the deep, dark
waters of the Susquehanna. He then washed out all traces of the bloody strife, and bent his
course homeward. He hurried on, avoiding the trodden path of the red man, until he reached
the mouth of the Otego Creek, when night's sable curtain began to darken the landscape around
him. He then ascended a high peak of the mountain, that not only overlooked the Valley of the
Susquehanna, but also overlooked the lovely Valley of the Otego Creek. Here, after finding
a suitable spot, and examining his rifle, and seeing that all was right, he laid down, weary
and exhausted, to rest, without kindling a fire.

The experience of the last two days had taught him a lesson long to be remembered. As the night
grew dark and chilly, he could see the fire from his own cottage window gleam warm and bright
from his lofty mountain bed, distant twelve miles. The night seemed long and wild, and still
wilder round his lonely bed. The war was now raging between the United States and Canada. The
inhabitants of Cherry Valley had been massacred, and he had come near losing his own life and
liberty, and time would only tell what would become of himself and family. The Oneidas knew
his home and place of rest, but at present they were his friends; but how should he escape
these western savage tribes, that delighted in kindling the terror-awakening fire, and causing
the midnight to glitter with the blaze of some solitary dwelling, whilst they stood at the
door with the scalping-knife and tomahawk, to deal the death-blow to the inmates, and triumph
with savage glee over their untimely death? Such were the reflections of Mayall, solitary and
alone in his mountain bed, when the wild beasts of the forest were in motion, and no human
being within twelve miles of his mountain camp. At length the morning dawned; the sun arose
in all his glory, throwing a rosy blush, as it touched one peak and then another along the
Catskill mountains, which he could see clothed in all their autumnal glory above the intervening
hills. Long lines of clouds lay along the highest peaks of these mountains, painted with all
the hues of vermilion and gold, but soon faded to a leaden hue, as they began to veil the sun.

Mayall was now aware of the approaching storm, which he considered a stroke of good luck. He
took the Indian's rifle, which he had brought thus far with him, and secreted it in a hollow
log, lest it might be a tell-tale of what had happened. He then took a general survey with
his practiced eye, to see if there was any smoke rising from the valleys. He could see none
but his own in the distance. He then hurried down from the mountain, and took the nearest path
to his home with rapid and hurried steps, in order to get as near home as possible, that the
rain might wash out all traces behind, and took special care to avoid soft ground, as he well
knew the shrewdness of the Indians on the track if they should miss their tribesmen. He reached
home before the rain began to descend, and had hardly closed the door before the wind began
to blow and the rain fell in torrents.

His family were surprised to see him return, after three days' absence, with nothing but his
gun and ammunition, and appearing careworn, weary and hungry. He walked to the door and looked
out, and said, "Nature weeps for me!"

Mayall was a bold, daring man, and none was found more brave; but when he looked upon his little
prattling children and lovely wife, he thought of the three Indian warriors lying at the bottom
of the dark, deep stream, and he wept, thinking they might have wives and fatherless children,
who would look out evening and morning for their fathers and husbands, who would never return
again to their homes.

His wife and children hailed him with joy, but nothing they could say seemed worth his notice;
he seemed to be wrapped in deep meditation--not a smile was seen to light up his sunburnt countenance.
No one could read the secret of his meditation.

Autumn quietly wore away, and Mayall confined his hunting excursions to his own quiet valley,
where game appeared quite plenty, until the snows of winter began to whiten the hills. He then
remained most of the time at home, excepting now and then, when the weather was favorable,
he made an excursion up or down the valley in quest of deer, to supply his family with fresh
venison. The deep snows had drifted over the war-path of the red man, and Mayall had enjoyed
a quiet season, spending most of his time by a warm winter fire.

At length winter began to resign his sway, and took up his march for his northern icy throne.
The rays of the sun began to dissolve the deep snow, the southern breeze began to whisper among
the dumb branches of the forest trees, the warm rains pattered down, the little mountain streams
were swollen, and noisily hurrying down to pour their tribute into the Otego, which overflowed
its banks and inundated the lowlands along the streams, and Spring began to put on her glorious
robes of beauty. The violet opened its young leaves with all its youthful blush, the honeysuckle
displayed its glistening cups of gold, and the forest trees were again clothed with living
green, while every tree that bore the fruits of Autumn was dressed with Nature's fairest wreaths,
which art can scarcely imitate. The feathered choir had fluttered up the valley, borne on the
southern breeze, to cheer the woodland with their song.

Such was the earthly Paradise of Mayall. Not all the halls of state, with their artificial
splendor; not all the retinue of kings, with golden crowns, surrounded with warriors glittering
with burnished gold and ornamented with diamonds--all these faded into insignificance, when
compared with his green forest home.

"What city," said Mayall, "with all its towers and domes, can compare with these sylvan shades
and waving arches, the music of these waterfalls, and that of the tall pine's quaking cone
standing on its high and lofty throne? And what music can compare with the notes of these feathered
songsters, that morning and evening hymn the praise of Nature's God, where He sits enthroned
with all his glory?" Such were the reflections of Mayall, as he sat beneath a clustering vine
that his lovely companion had trained, in his absence, to form an arch over his cottage door,
and shelter him from the burning sun.

The flowers of May soon began to drop their leaves, the streams had become confined within
their banks, the red men from the Western lakes and Canada were again upon the war-path, and
it required all the skill of a forest life to elude their pursuit. Mayall knew every sound
of the night; his eye and ear had long sought in the dark; not a beast that walked the forest
by night, or prowled around his cabin or camp-fire, but he could name readily by the sound
of his footsteps. Mayall had remained most of the summer at his forest home, cultivating a
small field that surrounded it, and capturing such game as frequented his own valley, and the
streams that meandered through it abounded with fish of the finest quality for his table.

Summer had quietly passed away, and the golden sun of September began to change the bright
green of summer to all the varied hues of autumn. Mayall once more began to feel a desire to
roam over the hills, which had long been his favorite employment; he finally resolved on visiting
his more distant hunting-ground in quest of deer, which had become scarce near his home. He
accordingly rose with the sun and prepared for a journey over the distant hills and valleys,
which had only appeared to him in his dreams since his capture by the three Indian warriors.
He took an eastern course, crossed the highlands between the Otego Creek and Susquehanna Valley,
crossed the Indian war-path that passed up the Susquehanna, and thence up Cherry Valley Creek
at right angles, and soon began to climb the steep ascent of the Crumhorn mountain, in the
direction of a small lake situated on the top of the mountain. As he began to ascend the mountain
the sun had passed the meridian, and poured its heated rays against the western slope of the
mountain. Mayall, coming to a noisy little rill that spun its silver thread down the mountain
side, to mingle with the water in the valley below, slaked his thirst at the stream, and, walking
up to a little mound near the stream, scraped together some leaves that had fallen in wild
profusion around, to carpet the mountain-side with all their varied hues, and seated himself
for his noonday meal. After satisfying his hunger and again quenching his thirst at the stream,
he sat down to rest; a stupor came over him, as the gentle breeze fanned the mountain-side
and whispered among the lofty branches of the forest trees, like the Æolian harp of passing time.

Mayall soon became unconscious of the fearful dangers that were hovering around him; time,
to him, passed unheeded; the sun was fast sinking towards the western hills, and the wild beasts
of the forest were again in motion. Mayall slowly awoke to consciousness, and, to his surprise
and horror, he heard the tread of a panther walking about him, and covering him with leaves.
Being perfectly acquainted with the habits of this animal, he knew that to move a hand or foot
would cause his instant death, as the old panther was then preparing a feast for her young
ones, as he had seen them prepare a deer that she had found in the same manner, and then go
and bring her young ones. He lay in fearful suspense until the panther had finished her covering
of leaves. He heard her footsteps begin to recede, until the sound was lost in distance; then,
creeping out from his covering of leaves, he discovered near him an old decayed log about the
length of a man. This he moved to the spot where he had lain, and covered it with leaves, then,
casting his eyes around, he saw a tree that he could easily climb, and, slinging his gun over
his shoulder, fastened by a strap to his belt, he lost no time in ascending the tree to the
height of twenty-five or thirty feet, where he found a convenient branch to rest upon, above
the height of the panther's ground-leap. He waited quietly for the return of the panther and
her family, not knowing how many guests would be invited to the feast.

Whilst sitting on this lofty perch, in painful suspense, he carefully examined his trusty gun
and hunting knife, which he sheathed in his boot in readiness for the combat, should the panthers
attempt to attack him by ascending the tree. After resting on one of the branches of his chosen
tree for a short time he heard the rustling of the leaves in the distance, and could plainly
see through the branches of the trees that the old panther was advancing towards his bed of
leaves, accompanied by three large cubs. He now felt thankful there was but one old one in
the company, and waited in silence to see the exploits of the old panther, which advanced steadily
towards the bunch of leaves with cautious steps, as if she feared to wake her prey until she
came within leaping distance; then, settling down on the ground, waited until her young ones
came to her side; then springing forward with one tremendous bound, she struck upon the log
covered with leaves. The rotten wood-bark and leaves flew fearfully around for a moment. The
panther seeing her mistake, dropped her tail and ears like a shamed cur, and taking a careful
survey with her eyes of the surrounding forest, stood at fault for a few moments. Then raising
her head and ears, she seemed to resume all her native fierceness, and seemed maddened with
rage at her disappointment, and, seeming to have caught the scout of the victim of her rage,
she raised her eyes and fixed them on Mayall in the tree, and advanced directly towards him,
her young panthers following, which were about the size of a large wild cat.

Mayall awaited her approach, with his gun in readiness, until the panther came in full view,
and as she settled towards the ground to make a bound up the tree he sent the contents of his
gun through her head. For a few moments there was a fearful struggle among the small brush
and saplings, and then she dropped lifeless and exhausted upon the ground. Mayall lost no time
in loading his gun, but the young panthers, seeing their protector and provider fall, were
quickly out of reach of the fearless hunter. Mayall descended to the ground just as the sun
was casting his last crimson blush on the Crumhorn hills, and kindled his camp-fire on the
leaves that the panther had scraped together for his funeral pile. After he had kindled his
fire and made preparations for the night he then laid down near his camp-fire, where he could
get a fair view of his surroundings. The shades of evening soon gathered around him. The stars
shot forth in beauty one by one, and the evening dew fell in silence. Thinking the young panthers
might return for their dam, he had placed her in a sleeping position in a conspicuous place,
to draw them to her side if they came within sight. Mayall waited in sleepless anxiety, thinking
that when the embers of his fire died away the young panthers might approach. In the midst
of his watchfulness the moon arose and showed her maiden face, and walked among the stars,
reflecting her borrowed light among the branches of the forest trees.

Mayall was delighted with the grandeur of the scenery around him, which drew out his mind in
pure devotion to Nature and Nature's God. The night seemed to pass like a pleasant dream, and
the day-star began to twinkle in the east. Mayall kindled again his fire to prepare his morning
repast, that he might retrace his steps to the Valley of the Otego, knowing that the hunter
finds no deer in forests inhabited by panthers. The day-king soon arose and dispelled the darkness
of night. Mayall went forward and circumnavigated the little lake in pursuit of the young panthers.
Not finding their hiding place, he sat down on a log for a few moments to view that beautiful
sheet of water, reflecting on its bosom the surrounding forest. Eolus was slumbering. Not a
breath of air played over its surface, but lay like the mirror bright and fair. Mayall in his
excitement viewed it as one of the lovely dimples on the face of creation, which held him for
a time like a charm, until his thoughts roamed over the forest hills to his loved ones at home.
He then arose and retraced his steps to the Valley of the Otego, considering the past day and
night one of the most charming incidents of his past life.

The war of the Revolution had now ended, and new adventurers began to visit the Valley of the
Otego. Charmed with the beauty of its forests and crystal streams, they would return and soon
appear with their families.

    And behold the green hills in distance laid,
    Where the wild hunter often strayed,
    Where through the forest swift as light
    The wild deer shunned the bullets' flight.

CHAPTER III.

Summer had resigned her sway to Autumn in the green valleys of the Susquehanna and her tributaries,
which spread out among the hills like the branches of some mighty forest tree, over whose curving
and playful waters the green plumes of the forest trees had waved during the summer, now changed
with the season; and Summer, the queen of flowers and ripening fruit, had wrapped herself in
a mantle of green, and laid down to die as the sun gradually declined to southern skies and
the Autumn Queen put on her gorgeous robes of many colors. The squirrel was seen to play on
nimble feet through oak and chestnut groves gathering in his winter store. The deer, with her
fawn, wandered through the grove unmolested, excepting at such times as Mayall needed venison
for his own table.

One day, while seated beneath the vine-clad porch of his cabin, where the vines had been trained
by his wife to tie in leafy coil over the door, he saw a woman in homespun dress advancing
with hurried steps, weeping and mourning as she advanced towards him, and fell exhausted at
his feet. Mayall raised her from the ground and inquired the cause of her grief. She soon recovered
sufficiently to inform him that a party of nine Indian hunters had been prowling about her
cabin for a couple of days, and that morning they had stolen her little daughter Nelly, but
four years old, and bore her away in triumph without any regard to her screams or the lamentations
of her mother for her only child.

Mayall listened with pity and grief to the poor woman's tale of woe, and impatiently said,
"Why did not your husband follow the black thieves and bring back your child?"

"Oh dear," cried the poor woman, "what could he do with so many Indians?"

Mayall replied, "Follow them, and when a good opportunity offered, kill them, shoot the thieves
and bring back your child. Better die like a man than live a coward here in this forest land,
dreaming of robber band that bore away his only child to be a slave in some proud savage's
smoky hut."

At this reply the woman became frantic with despair and cried out, "Oh, Mayall, for mercy save
my child. You are the only man now living that can do it, and I will give you all I possess
on earth and be your slave in the bargain."

Mayall was not deaf to sympathy. The fire of revenge began to kindle in his bosom; but how
should he withstand the power and vengeance of nine brave men skilled in battle and the chase?
He sat silent for a few moments. The flames of revenge began to burn in his iron will, which,
when aroused, was terrible. He inquired the direction the Indians had gone with the child,
and where their trail could be found, then told the woman to go home and take a good night's
rest; he said the Indians had gone, and of course would not return unless they came to bring
her Nelly back, and further she could do nothing to recover the child herself. He thought the
child would be returned in the morning.

These words seemed to pacify her, and she returned home. As soon as his only neighbor, Miss
Murphrey, was out of sight, Mayall examined his trusty gun and prepared cartridges equal to
twice the number of Indians, placed his tomahawk and hunting-knife in his belt, then turned
to his wife and said, "You must not look for me until I return. I will be back as soon as my
mission is accomplished."

His mind then became calm and he sallied forth from his cottage as cheerful as a hunter in
quest of game, and soon disappeared in the forest that surrounded his dwelling. The sun was
descending towards the western hills in all her flaming glory as Mayall reached the summit
of the dividing ridge between the Otego Creek and the Susquehanna Valley. Cautiously and slowly
he descended the hill, keeping on the Indian trail.

As the shades of night hovered over the forest, Mayall left the trail and took his post on
a small hill not far from the river, where he could hear the Indians preparing wood for their
evening fire, and occasionally he could hear the child, Nelly Murphrey, crying for its mother.
Mayall cautiously advanced through the thick forest, guided by the sound of the child's voice
weeping and often calling for its mother, who lay wrapped in wakeful dreams several miles away.
The voice of this weeping child nerved the old hunter's arm with the strength of a Samson,
and filled his heart with a vengeance not his own. The hours seemed to linger into days as
he lay crouched in the dark. At last the camp-fire of the Indians blazed up and illuminated
the forest. Mayall lay secreted in a little thicket behind a knoll, where he could hear every
word that was said, and he well understood the Indian dialect.

One Indian, who seemed to be their leader, said there would be no danger unless they got the
old hunter on the trail, and to avoid him they must be up and away as soon as the day-star
appeared.

The Indians partook of their evening meal and laid down to slumber and rest, not dreaming that
the bold hunter, like the panther, was crouching near with sharpened tomahawk and knife, panting
for an opportunity to avenge a woman's wrongs.

As the night wore away all became silent, excepting an occasional outbreak from little Nelly
Murphrey, calling for her mother. The camp-fire no longer blazed, but the dying coals were
yet red, and gave sufficient light to see the nine dark forms stretched on the forest floor.
Mayall now began to move forward with cautious steps. He soon discovered by the flickering
of the embers that the Indian on the watch had fallen asleep, with the stolen child nestling
between him and the Indian warrior beside him.

Mayall took a cautious look. No Indian in his blanket stirred. All was silent, excepting the
low murmuring of the Susquehanna rolling by. He noiselessly rested his gun behind a tree, and
leaped like a tiger upon his prey, with his tomahawk in one hand, which he swung as fast as
death could deal a blow, and his long knife gleaming by the light of the fire in the other.
The last Indian in the circle, wakened by the screams of the child, leaped from his leafy bed
and fled into the forest with the speed of a panther. Mayall, seeing his retreating form, sprang
to the Indian's guns and fired three in quick succession after him, to speed his flight, and
then, gathering up the remaining guns as quickly as possible, threw them upon the coals with
the muzzles in the direction the Indian had gone, in order to keep up the firing until he could
get out of hearing with the affrighted child before the Indian returned. He then took up Nelly,
who was half dead with fright, and hurried off in the opposite direction as fast as possible.
The sharp report of one gun after another broke the stillness of night until Mayall had got
more than two miles from the bloody conflict with his prize, and had soothed the child's fears
by softly whispering in her ear that he was carrying her home to her mamma.

Mayall now diverged from the trail and reached the place of his destination by a circuitous
route, at times traveling in the channel of small brooks, in order to deceive the Indians,
should they undertake to follow on the trail, to avenge the blood of his tribesmen. Mayall
hurried on with his prize. The stars had faded from his view, and the morning sun had lighted
up the concave of the skies, before he could reach the weeping mother with her little Nelly.
Her mother had passed a sleepless night, and her wakeful eye had been turned in every direction
to see if she could catch a glimpse or a sound from her little Nelly. None but a mother could
realize her pain and anguish at the loss of her lovely child. As she stood looking she fancied
she heard the faint sound of her prattling voice. A moment later she saw Mayall come in full
view with little Nelly in his arms. The fond mother, now as frantic with joy as she had been
the previous day with grief, rushed to meet Mayall. She met him some distance from her cabin,
and little Nelly leaped with joy into her mother's arms as she fell at the feet of Mayall,
to thank him for restoring to her loved embrace her only child. Mayall raised her to her feet
and said, "I have done no more than my duty, and I have no time to waste. Swear to me before
the God of Heaven that all that pertains to the loss and return of this child shall be kept
a secret whilst I live."

After receiving her sacred promise not to reveal the secret, he disappeared again in the forest,
and there was no human being left at liberty to tell the frightful story of the Indians' fate,
excepting the Indian that made good his retreat.

The seasons rolled around, Autumn had again hung out her flag of many colors, and Nelly Murphrey,
under the fond care of her mother, had grown to be a beautiful little girl, with her auburn
hair drooping fondly in ringlets upon her shoulders, and appeared in all the beauty of innocence.

Whilst the mother was seated at her door, playing with little Nelly, she raised her eyes and
saw a tall, stately Indian standing before her at a respectful distance. As soon as her eyes
rested upon the Indian, she recognized him as being one of the band that stole her child. As
Nelly saw him she screamed and flew back into the house. The sudden scream seemed to freeze
her mother's blood, and she sat as immovable as a statue. The Indian stood perfectly quiet,
without coming nearer. When she had recovered, he said he would not harm her nor her child;
but she must tell him who brought back her child. She told him she found the child in the edge
of the woods the next morning, and supposed that he had returned it. He then told her he had
not, and she must find out who it was and let him know when he came around again. The mother
watched the Indian until he disappeared in the forest, and then stealing away slyly in the
opposite direction, and by taking a circuitous route, soon reached Mayall's cottage, and told
Mayall that one of the same Indians that had stolen her Nelly had been at her house, trying
to find out who brought her back. "I told him where I found her, and thought he had got tired
of her and brought her back." Mayall then told her to go into his cottage and remain there
with his wife and children until he returned. Taking good care to keep the doors securely bolted,
and the axe in the house to use if they were molested, Mayall then took down his gun, prepared
some cartridges, put on his belt, with his tomahawk and knife depending from it, and hanging
by his side, and left the cottage.

Night came, but the hunter did not return. There was no moon, but the stars shone forth in
tranquil loveliness as the night wore away. About midnight they heard a noise outside and near
the cottage, and they crept cautiously to the window, which was nearly as high as one's head,
but not of sufficient size to admit a common sized man, and looked cautiously out, and Mayall's
cow was in his garden. Mrs. Mayall then told her that the Indian was near, and she must not
show her head at the window, or she might be taken for her husband. The minutes now seemed
to drag into hours, when that hungry cow was walking over the choice melons and devouring them,
and in a few moments more she was eating and stamping down the corn which they had cultivated
with care for their own domestic use. But time wore away, and all was still, excepting the
cow in the garden. The sharp report of a gun was heard, and loud groans followed, which seemed
to shake everything within like a clap of midnight thunder, and my brain seemed to reel, for
deeds were going on I dare not look upon.

Soon after, some one, whom I took to be Mayall, for I could see by the light of the stars he
had a gun in his hand, came and drove his cow out of the garden. Mrs. Mayall then told me her
husband would be back in the course of an hour, and they would then be out of all danger; that
her husband was then near the house. Our fears seemed to vanish, and we commenced talking and
anticipating what had happened. Mrs. Mayall said the report was from her husband's gun; that
she knew the sound from all other guns, and that, when in the hands of her husband, was sure
death against prowlers of the night, whether they walked on two feet or four.

She then said she knew their game. The Indian had let the cow into the garden, expecting that
her husband would come out, whilst he lay secreted to kill him. She said Mayall never slept
in his house when he knew there were Indians watching for him, but always kept near enough
to protect his house and family. Whilst we were anticipating what had been done in the dark,
Mayall suddenly knocked three times on the door, then paused and struck one. Mrs. Mayall, without
farther hesitation, sprang to the door and opened it. I said, "How dare you open that door?"
She replied that his knock was different from all other men; she said she could tell by the
day of the week, and no one knew the secret but herself.

Mayall entered the house without saying a word, bolted the door after him, laid down his gun,
knife and tomahawk, and after telling me that I could go home in the morning if I chose, there
would be no danger, he then laid down on his bed of straw, and was sound asleep in less than
five minutes; and when I left his cottage in the morning he was still asleep. I took my little
Nelly and returned to my cabin. Many strange thoughts passed through my troubled brain. Occasionally
I seemed to hear the sharp report of a rifle; and then how came the blood on that tomahawk?
The Indian never appeared again, nor could there be any trace of him found.

    Roam on the high mountain's crest, fearless ranger,
    The Indian no more shall dye his coarse blanket
    In citizens' gore; he has left, aye, forever, the vales
    Where you met him, and fought for my Nelly,
    So gifted, so fair and so young.

CHAPTER IV.

The Oneida Indians came annually from the Valley of the Mohawk and the Oneida reservation to
the Valley of the Susquehanna, by their path down the Valley of Adaca, to lay in their store
of dried venison for the long and dreary winters of this latitude, accompanied by their wives
and daughters, who prepared the meat taken in the hunt, dried and smoked it, and put it in
deerskin sacks ready to be conveyed to their winter quarters. They always encamped at their
place of rest at the outlet of the Adaca Creek into the Susquehanna River, where they had planted
an orchard to supply them with apples during the fall hunt.

Mayall lived near their path where they usually stopped to make inquiries and gain such information
as was necessary to guide them where deer were most numerous. They usually gave Mayall an invitation
to join the fall hunt, which was his favorite amusement at that season of the year, being an
expert in the game of hunting. The Indians gave Mayall his full share of the venison and furs
taken. They ranged the hills and valleys in every direction from their camp at the place of
rest, and returned at night with their venison and furs, which they handed over to their squaws
to be dressed and dried, excepting such parts as would not bear transportation, which were
taken to supply the daily food of the camp. A number of large gray wolves had been heard nightly
from their camp howling on the mountain south of the Susquehanna, which caused the deer to
leave the South Mountain and cross over to the hills on the north side.

On the morning following one of their howling frolics, one of the hunters shot and wounded
a deer on the south side of the river. In their endeavors to capture it they drove it up the
mountain side. There were a number of hunters joined in the chase, but as the hill grow steep
and rocky they all fell back and returned to camp but Mayall and two Indians, who had now reached
the high range of hills, where they made a temporary halt to view the ample plains and beauteous
tracts below. On the one hand they surveyed the famous Susquehanna, rolling in silent dignity
and marking its course with inconceivable grandeur, while in the distance the hills lifted
their venerable brows.

Here they had paused a few moments to view the beauties of Nature as it came fresh from the
hand of Omnipotence. The sunlight was streaming from the western skies, kissing each mountain
top, clad with crimson and gold, like the morning light that dances on the heaven-kissed hills
of Paradise. Mayall viewed the scene with unspeakable delight, as he thought how rich he was
in everything that made life desirable to him. From this lofty eminence over the valley forest
he could mark the smoke curling from his quiet home, where his lovely companion rested. Youth,
beauty, wealth, love, all seemed to be his. All his past life seemed to pass in grand review.
The sun sank in silence toward the horizon, and called to his mind that the chase was leading
them too far from camp to return before dark.

Before they had time to decide which course to pursue they heard the deer returning with a
gang of wolves close in pursuit, made ravenous by the scent of the warm blood gushing from
the deer's sides at every bound, in consequence of his wonderful springs to escape the wolves,
which were so near that one miss-jump would have been fatal, as a dozen wolves were ready to
tear his flesh from his bones.

It now became hurrying times. Mayall looked round to find a safe retreat. The two Indians that
had ascended the hill with him were wild with affright, and beat a hasty retreat. The deer
became exhausted in its exertions to escape, and fell to the ground within two rods of the
place where Mayall stood, and three of the wolves rushed upon him with open jaws, to devour
him. Mayall was just the man for that place; for as quick as a flash of electricity all his
presence of mind returned. The contents of his gun, with his deadly aim, brought down the first
or foremost to the ground. He dropped his gun and met the second with his tomahawk, which he
dispatched at a blow. The third had then reached him. He aimed a blow at his head, his weapon
glanced, and the wolfs mouth came in contact with his body and fastened his teeth in his hunting-frock.
At that instant Mayall gave him a thrust with his long hunting-knife, which he had drawn from
his belt with his left hand. The knife entered between the wolf's ribs and split his heart,
and the wolf fell back and expired with a mournful howl. Mayall was now clear from the wolves.
The remainder of the drove was devouring the deer with such haste, he saw there would be no
escape unless it was effected without delay. He instantly placed his tomahawk in his belt and
sheathed his knife, then fastening his gun to his belt by means of a spring, commenced climbing
the first favorable tree he reached.

He had barely time to climb ten feet from the ground before the wolves made a rush for the
tree, and commenced jumping at him, mingled with a howl of rage and disappointment. Mayall
continued to climb until he reached a safe and convenient place for loading his gun. He soon
loaded and brought down the fourth wolf, and then gave a shout of triumph to inform the Indians
that he had reached a place of safety. The Indians shouted back from the tree-tops far down
the mountain, with joy that echoed through every glen and ascended above the mountain-top;
for hearing the howling and growling of the wolves after Mayall's first fire, they supposed
the wolves were devouring Mayall and would soon be upon their track, and had taken the precaution
to reach a place of safety in time. Mayall now continued to load his gun and fire upon the
wolves with success, until the thinned band made their retreat up the mountain. He then descended
from his lofty perch, made his retreat in the same direction the Indians had, down the mountain.

Mayall soon reached the place where the Indians had fled for safety, and found them perched
in a tree like two owls on their nightly roost. As soon as the Indians saw Mayall they quickly
descended, and the three took up their line of march for their camp with the double-quick.
The curtains of night were fondly drooping upon the hill-tops, and the stars were shooting
forth in glory one by one from Heaven's blue concave as the three hunters reached the Indian
encampment.

The Indians shouted with joy at their return, after hearing the firing of guns and the fierce
howling of wolves. They had been much alarmed for their safety. The squaws and Indians flocked
round Mayall to hear the Indians relate the story of their adventure and act over the frightful
scene with gun, tomahawk and knife, to show the amount of skill used by Mayall in handling
the deadly weapons of war. Their war-chief, being present, addressed his Indians in the following
manner: "Your pale-faced chief, whom I shall this night adopt by the name of Wolf-hunter, must
ever be revered by our tribesmen for his deeds of skill and daring. He has driven our enemies
from our hunting-ground. Yon skulking thieves that destroyed our game, and tore the white squaw's
papoose from her arms, and bore it over the high hills to where the Susquehanna winds her course
among the alder groves, there the pale chief left them in their leafy bed of gore, and returned
the white papoose to the embrace of her mother. The Indians who returned to avenge their fallen
tribesmen have been slain by him, and their bones will ever rest on our hunting-ground, unmolested
either by sire or son. He has met this day in deadly combat the gray wolves of the forest that
destroyed our venison. They spared neither the deer nor its fawn; and to-night they sleep in
death, high on the bleak mountain-side. The God of battle helps him in every strife, and no
arm has yet been found able to cope with his. And we should be proud of such a friend to lead
the hunt and move the whirlwind of the battle on."

Mayall related the story of his adventure with the wolves to Mr. Powel, one of the first settlers
of the Adaca Valley, and at the same time informed him that Molly Brant, then an Indian maiden
of beautiful form and suavity of manners, was with the Indians at their camp, and was after
that the wife of Sir William Johnson. He said her manners were as gentle as the south wind
that rocked the tree-tops in autumn.

CHAPTER V.

The place of rest where the red man unstrung his bow and slept two hundred years ago, beneath
the shades of an overgrown forest, where the grandsires of that much-abused race planted their
orchard, which bore the gems of bright abundance in autumn's golden days to regale their taste
and satisfy their appetites, whilst they rested from the chase, this Garden of Eden so much
famed in Indian story, the red man's resting-place, where he gathered in his stock of furs
for his winter clothing and dried his venison to sustain his own life and the life of his family
during the cold stormy winters of this latitude, around whose fertile plain the towering hills
stand as sentinels to guard the plain below from furious winds and drifting storms, was highly
esteemed by the Indian tribes for the abundance of fish that inhabited the waters of the Susquehanna
and its tributaries.

There has long been a story of revolutionary days connected with this renowned place. Sir William
Johnson, a Major-General in the British army, came to Johnstown and took up his residence in
that place. Whilst there he had some business to transact with the Indians, who frequently
came to that place to trade. He there became acquainted with a young squaw, Holly Brant, the
daughter of the famous war-chief of the Mohawk Indians, and was so much enamored with her virtue,
wit and beauty, that he asked the chief's consent to give him the hand of his daughter in marriage.
After some hesitation the chief consented, and his daughter, the Forest Queen, was sent for.
She came dressed in simple Indian costume, ornamented with wampum, wearing fawn-skin moccasins
embroidered with the quills of the porcupine; her long flowing dress was decked with roses.
Sir William had been a guest at the Royal Court of England, where fair women flashed with diamonds
and brave men whirled in the giddy dance, but none seemed to him to possess that beauty and
grace which appeared in this young Forest Queen. In short, he admired her more than he did
all the fair daughters of Eastern climes.

Sir William was so much enamored with her artless grace that they were soon united in marriage,
and he took her to his mansion to grace its stately halls as she had the cabin of the Indian
chief, her father, who was considered by the Indians equal in rank to Sir William Johnson.

    Beauty's spell flowed from her eyes,
    A radiant splendor wreathed her hair,
    And fondly sweet perfection lingered there,
    From which all human virtues gently flow.

In due time the chief came to visit Sir William and his daughter, and was invited by them to
tarry with them for a time. The invitation was accepted by the chief. After viewing the stately
halls hung with maps, pictures and mirrors, he retired to rest. Not being accustomed to sleep
on beds of down, fenced in with lofty ceiling, his sleep was disturbed with dreams. He dreamed
of palaces beyond the sea, with high towering domes and gilded halls, and warriors with golden
epaulettes and flashing sabres, and plumes that nodded as they marched to battle. All these
grand views formed within his breast a desire for military glory.

Finally he awoke with the first rays of the morning, with a pleasing dream impressed upon his
memory, and when he arose he related the dream to Sir William and his wife. He said he had
dreamed that Sir William gave him his uniform, covered with gold lace of costly texture, with
his sword, epaulettes, pistols, and hat covered with plumes. Sir William, not being unacquainted
with the Indian custom, seemed at a loss what answer to give the chief. His wife, seeing his
embarrassment, took him by the hand and led him to the hall and informed him that he had better
fulfill the dream of her father by giving him his war equipage, which would give him an opportunity
to dream in return.

"What can I dream," said the Major-General, "to compensate me for that splendid war equipage?"

His wife, with a sly look, replied, "Leave that to me;[1] but give him the uniform and other
equipage."

[Footnote 1: The author of the History of Schoharie County and Border Wars of New York, states
that the lands dreamed for by Sir William Johnson, with the famous Indian chief Hendrix, of
the Mohawk tribe, were situated in the Valley of the Mohawk, which statement is denied by the
first settlers of the Indian's place of rest in the Valley of the Susquehanna, which lands
were purchased of the heirs of Sir William Johnson, who used to relate the story of the dream
as they learned it of their mother, whose maiden name was Molly Brant, and had been at the
Indian place of rest with the Indians in their fall hunt when an Indian maiden.]

The Major-General then brought forward his beautiful uniform and equipments, that had been
manufactured with care in England to adorn men of rank and high renown in the British service,
and worn with honors. The Indian chief looked with pride upon the dazzling prize, so easily
won from a British officer. He then took off his Indian dress and put on the General's uniform,
which he said was a very good fit for a chief to wear in time of peace, but not well calculated
for the battle fray. He wore his uniform through the day while a guest at the house of Sir
William Johnson. When night came he took off his uniform and folded it carefully and packed
it in a suitable form to transport it to his own village, situated many miles away in the forest.
After the chief had retired to rest for the night Mrs. Johnson informed the General he must
dream that the chief, her father, gave him one thousand acres of land situated on each side
of the Susquehanna, at their place of rest, where they could remove after the war had ended
and live in tranquil loveliness upon the banks of the gently flowing Susquehanna.

    There on the runway long and low,
    Coursed the buck, the fawn and doe;
    The finny tribes in lengthened shoals
    Swarm through all the crystal stream;
    There in the summer sunshine blaze
    Will rise green rows of twinkling maze,
    Where the sweet waters of the mountain rill
    Will ever turn your grinding mill.

The glowing account of so lovely a valley, given by Sir William's wife, caused him to dream
that the Indian chief gave him one thousand acres of land at the Indian's place of rest. The
next morning when the Indian chief and Sir William met, he related his dream. The Indian chief
sat in silent meditation for a few moments, and then replied that if he had actually dreamed
the dream that he had related he must have the one thousand acres of land, but one thing was
certain, he would never dream with him again whilst he had that young fox at his elbow.

The one thousand acres of land were deeded to Sir William, according to the tenor of his dream,
and the land was sold to actual settlers by the heirs and descendants of Sir William Johnson,
years after the storm of the Revolution had passed away, and the grant was confirmed in the
settlement of peace with the government of Great Britain.

CHAPTER VI.

After the storm of the Revolution had subsided, the Indian's bow was unstrung, the tomahawk
and scalping-knife were laid idly by, and the Angel of Peace had spread her guardian wing over
the waters of the Susquehanna and her tributaries. The hardy sons of New England came flocking
to this section of country, and many of them found a home for their families in the lovely
Valley of the Otego. Here they purchased lauds and commenced cutting down and clearing away
the forest along the valley, and erecting rude houses to shelter their wives and children,
and mills to grind their grain.

In a few short years the smoke from their morning fires curled above the forest trees for more
than twenty miles along the winding banks of the crystal waters of the Otego, and began to
present a scene of activity. School-houses were erected by the industry of the settlers along
the valley at the most convenient places, and these served a double purpose--for schools through
the week and meeting on the Sabbath.

Orchards soon began to blossom in spring, and fields of grain to wave in summer, both yielding
the gems of bright abundance in autumn. Then the reapers, robust and ruddy with health, thrust
in the willing sickle, whilst the young maidens with glowing cheeks gathered up the gavels
and bound them in sheaves and raked the new-mown hay. Health, beauty and prosperity spread
their glory over the lovely scene. The axeman's blows, that lowered the forest and frightened
away the game, were displeasing to Mayall, and all his thoughts were now turned on finding
a new home. The thought of living in a country where the primeval forest was fast disappearing,
the thick boughs that had sheltered him from the storms and the green plumes that had waved
over his head in summer to protect him from the scorching rays of the sun in his daily rambles,
for so many years, where the wild game had lived and fattened for his table--all seemed like
departing friends.

Mayall could endure the scene no longer, and started in quest of a new home. He traversed the
country to the north in every direction, with his gun in his hand and his hunting-knife and
tomahawk in his belt.

Thus equipped he wandered over a vast section of country, winding around lakes and crossing
streams, at times climbing the highest hills, there from some lofty tree-top taking a view
of the surrounding country, to see if the smoke from the cottage of some adventurous settler
or that of the Indian wigwam dimmed the air. He was seeking a lone retreat where human footsteps
seldom fall. At length he learned from an Indian of the Oneida tribe that he would find that
secluded and happy retreat he was searching for on the head-waters of East Canada Creek, where
the sparkling waters swarmed with speckled trout, where the buck and the doe, with her fawn,
coursed on their runway undisturbed, where beautiful little lakes nestled among the hills,
and abounded with fish and water fowls, where the green forest in summer reflected its image
upon the waters so smooth and fair, and stamped upon its bosom creation's image, the sun and
clouds reflected in their waters by day and the moon and stars by night, with the beautiful
arch of heaven's high concave.

Whilst conversing with the Indian, his daughter came from his cabin near by and informed her
father that his morning meal was ready, and invited Mayall to come with her father to breakfast.
Mayall was struck with the youthful simplicity and beauty of the Indian maiden. After they
had enjoyed their delicious meal of venison together, and smoked the long pipe of peace, Mayall
informed the Indian that he had a son equal in height, years, activity and beauty with the
Indian chief's daughter, and if the chief had no objection he would take them both with him
to the beautiful and romantic country he had so graphically described, after their marriage,
and the Indian chief could come to visit her every fall and enjoy the Indian summer in hunting
deer and procuring furs for winter.

The Indian replied that if his daughter was pleased with Wolf-hunter's son, and he was as good
a hunter as his father, he would consent. The Indians had adopted Mayall into the tribe, by
the name of Wolf-hunter, which made Mayall's son equal in rank with the daughter of the Indian
chief.

Mayall now parted with the chief and his family in friendship, and left the proposed marriage
to abide future events. Mayall directed his steps towards East Canada Creek, where he arrived
in safety, and commenced his journey up the valley which had been scooped out by the stream
since the morning of creation. He soon passed beyond the noisy bustle of civilization in the
Valley of the Mohawk River, and launched into a solitude which appeared to him as a divine
retreat, and was better fitted for a wild hunter than a civilized man.

Mayall carefully examined the forest along the banks of the stream and its branches, from its
outlet into the Mohawk to its source far away among the forest hills. He found many traces
of beaver and other furred animals, and plenty of deer.

Mayall said it so nearly resembled the Otego Creek in its wild state, shaded with the primeval
forest, that it made him think of home in gone-by days. The speckled trout swarmed in the creek
and its small tributaries, the feathered songsters sung their evening and morning hymn, unmolested
by man.

Mayall selected the most beautiful place he could find, on an elevated spot of ground, near
a small rill fed by springs, where the creek formed a half circle like a new moon, on one side
of his cottage. This fertile spot, lying in the bend, he intended to clear and cultivate.

    Breeze of the woodland and breath of the prairie,
    Sweet with the fragrance of flower and vine,
    Proclaim o'er the hill-tops and deep-shaded glens
    That the sweet songsters of spring have returned,
    And the little birds chirp, flutter and sing,
    And make the groves again with melody ring. 

    At region we stand the third wind, gaze at light
    below white and woods sands nucleotide. We could
    so cognize knot of way we had break-- silvery-ripe malacca-orangery,
    was forth moshav with protestant-tower, poor
    woodlet arrived of thenar, kukui and hate
    the, and this time was jog to paries. Always me wax and he described
our countenance toward Honolulu.

    After snow were rude spring-attic, with omnipotence
    with vivid beauties and he made with silvery cascade.
    We were representing the Nuannu ("Temperature Fish")
    Depression, this delightful seeds and grassy addition.

Always were Insect Emma'mho utmost, its collection thick was seen of their young and ugly information,
that botanical Rays, either ministrant, the sepulcher and spread
the dwelling and plot gradually go by their Kalumma, the king.

Days would not so lengthen he of rank gayly-pique person were go in nucleotide of we approach
a municipality, raise birds would not vary they of pteridophyte and bloomer. One male transport
the purpose-steer swine brail was evolve to his stapes: he took rested harmonists of her ghetto.
So, in the primate-grape tree as shadiness, and say she past the royal thenar as gracility how the
backyard, when we ride into ugly Honolulu. LOUISE Mayall. To shores of MARTINSWAND: the Element. "oh,
had the, the, the!" OUIDA. Roan-rush in Mayall FRANCE. Concluding
Composition. In terminal he inquired of night has wear royal scenes.

The have go down into the shores after sand; a are in the Pyrenees,
feed fish and cotelettes at Mayall Luchon; while the whom any period
has little cognize away, or him would charm he was fed in what they
must once to marry hither "indian" more status, are refitting are
resolved at Dore or was thus enjoyed at Vichy, which is the saratoga
of France-- of rear, that nobody harbor to Vichy if he is so well
lakes, and that so mayall the were so turn on marital there.

But if our ally how the athlete would here understand to have nothing
the least with him could, and will now append of nothing best to do
during leave whilst his equine id shall always mayall how him, he
will pass a s was found with July declared at course under postdate
what is occupy "any journey."

A get of region among the gathering at the same tints, where the
seashore and very chiefs upon Transmission, in realty where resolves
to doe Mayall Canada which is findelkind France what the soft-cabin
was of KY is of US-- a equine-walking state.

So had the gathering, would else hither had change by their explanation
of Paris and to the numerous châteaux, all occupied nature of the
twelvemonth, and in one of which, at the Mouchy-lupus-Chastel, was
the valley delaware'Perfume dwell the small and distinguished institution.

Bloom and Weekday are a life for contest at shields and Beauvais,
Whitmonday existence were busy down of pouter-rise.

Here marry by series how these valleys of white Amiens, Honeysuckle,
Rouen, Havre and Nature; and to the one spot how a playbill would
be look out to the eastward'very see one-- truly a mostly, not excessively,
to one'case and more belt of this english clothes, whose idea among
fittingness of all flagship are clothe by spire-trailing and a proposed-subspecies.

The Frenchman, on opposition, the family are possibly those force and deficient blossoms, he tackle
until he passed in it like the life-lucifer in acquire and under seat. And the trotting! "Me replied
brooks! marchais!" utterance from contestant in Frenchman, and far to occur every philosophers,
haul their lumbering highlands, rattle Frenchman wagon, yield of
excessively ponderous and sweet provincial, and of round that is
certain forest to be light or nevertheless really difficult weather
are sufficient of themselves after case that koa sleep at the hills
has not marry by dint been trim like illustration in a 2.18 of South
or say some young 2.14 of Rapture.

It is happy highlands, and around, that a state who gave of hawthorn be long travel by case, and that
when american issuer and impost may have dress over property in France participate-contest, and yet
bear-lucifer and bed-bowl, if he should be anticipated with loam; but up to the future morn, that it
should be squeal, the various delight have been name by pleasure. I cannot state was the cabin
life that jog-competition would have resolved the misconception of my countryman, who should never
build there happen under his quiet days are few possibility for show of no practical, the-tomorrow
of most indian mayall had as hate the favourable than these own by US.


    The sunbeams are her lovely smiles,
    The rose and lily are her footsteps light;

and Autumn, in her turn, comes with golden fruit, and the leaves bear the gorgeous frost-tints
so variegated with all the glory of colors, with the full ear, and Ceres has bound his golden
sheaf, I say how beautiful is Autumn, crowned with fruit that perfumes the surrounding air,
representing the fruits of maturer years.

    The branches bend with riper fruit,
    The grapes in royal purple shine
    When Autumn yields the glory of the year;

and when Winter comes, and there is neither opening buds, green foliage, or ripening fruit,
nor gorgeous frost-tints upon the leaves, I look through the bare branches of the trees better
than I could in spring, summer and autumn, and lo, how beautiful are the stars that spangle
the heavens and twinkle in the pale light of the moon, with maiden face sweeping through the
heavens, veiled with fleecy clouds, like the bridesmaid of heaven, to direct our thoughts to
the celestial city to meet the great Author of our creation. For the spirit came from God,
and to God it must return, it being that part of Divinity that dwells with man during the journey
of life.

    And we shall hail with joy
    The glorious sunset of life."

And the company recorded his wise sayings and poetical phrases for the benefit of future generations
that should inhabit the Valley of the Otego.

CHAPTER VII.

Their household goods were few, and those of the plainest kind. They loaded all their goods,
with their children and Mrs. Mayall, into the wagon, and Mayall and his son Esock performed
the journey on foot, each one carrying his gun in readiness for any emergency, with Mayall
in advance to pilot them through the forest. In their journey they had to ford streams and
climb with difficulty the hills.

Not meeting with anything of importance, the fourth day they encamped within five miles of
the Indian chief's wigwam. After feasting on some ducks they had killed along their road, they
all laid down to rest from the toils of their journey, and all but Esock slept soundly. He
was meditating on what course to pursue, and what excuse he should make on arriving at the
Indian chief's wigwam, to excuse himself in so grave a matter. Mayall, his father, had gone
thus far in match-making without his consent, and now he wished the whole affair could be passed
by without seeing the Indian chief or his daughter.

In the morning Esock Mayall resolved to take a different route from his father and the rest
of the family, and pass the Indian chief's wigwam without being seen, and informed his father
of his resolution. Mayall then told Esock that he was ashamed of having a coward in his family;
said he must go boldly to the chief's wigwam, where they would all stay over night, and if
he was not pleased with the chief's daughter he would excuse the matter. Esock finally resolved
to go forward and brave the consequences, as his father always had some way to get out of a
bad affair. Their tent was soon taken down, and Mayall and his family pursued their journey
toward the Indian chief's wigwam.

The sun had risen fair, but as they proceeded along their journey dark clouds began to curtain
the heavens. The wind roared among the forest trees, the lightning flashed from the storm-cloud,
the thunders rolled through the forest with deafening roar, splitting and shivering the forest
trees, whilst the rain at intervals seemed to descend in torrents. Just as Mayall and his family
emerged from the thick woodlands into a small clearing, where the Indian chief's wigwam stood,
he saw the chief and his daughter stand looking out of the door, for Mayall's approach had
been heralded by an Indian runner the previous day, and they were prepared to receive him.
As they came into the clearing there was a lull in the storm for a few moments, and the chief's
daughter rushed forward to welcome Mayall to their home. The words had scarcely dropped from
her lips before the lightning began to crash among the trees and the storm beat down fearfully,
and she glided back to the wigwam with speed that seemed like the flight of a bird.

As she approached Mayall, Esock Mayall was standing in a position that brought her in full
view from her head to her feet. He was struck with a strange, mysterious spell. Her neck was
as pure as the alabaster, her bosom as white as ivory, her soft blue eyes like liquid orbs
adorning the face of beauty, whilst her fair hair flowed in graceful ringlets upon her neck
and shoulders. Her form was simply perfect; her breath was like the eglantine, and her cheek
wore the morning blush of the moss-rose. She was a perfect Cleopatra, all but the royal crown,
and that was supplied with plumes--the royal crown of the Indian Queen of the Poorest.

Esock Mayall stood as one amazed as he viewed the beautiful figure before him, dressed in a
neat flowing dress that came down to her feet, covered with wampum and such beautiful moccasins,
embroidered with the quills of the porcupine, with a border of the same around the bottom of
her flowing dress. Had he seen one of the fairies of olden times, a fabled goddess of the sylvan
shade, or had he seen a human being in this image of beauty that appeared before his father
and welcomed him to her home and then glided away to her father, the Indian chief?

Esock Mayall no longer seemed to notice the flashes of lightning, the roaring of the thunder,
nor the pelting of the storm, but kept his eye upon the departing form of that beautiful angel
amid the rushing of the tempest. Could this be the chief's daughter, her face as white as a
pond lily with the rose's blush upon her cheek and her eyes as blue as the violets of May,
with her flaxen hair flowing in unbound ringlets upon her shoulders? No, never. No Indian blood
ever flowed in the veins of a being so white and fair. It must be a phantom of his bewildered
imagination. He was sure that when he reached the wigwam he should see the chief's daughter
with her red skin, long, straight black hair and snaky eyes, just as he had pictured her in
his imagination ever since his father first mentioned her name.

A few moments more and they were unloading from their canvas-covered wagon before the Indian
chief's wigwam, with the same fair being he had seen retire so hastily to the wigwam amid the
fury of the storm, flying about, leading the children into the wigwam and kindly assisting
them in drying their wet garments; for the fury of the storm had passed by. After Mayall and
his son had taken care of their team they walked to the wigwam, Mayall leading the way, whilst
his son, Esock, walked timidly behind, straining every nerve lest he should lose his presence
of mind when the chief's daughter appeared before him. He entered the wigwam. Curiosity stood
on tiptoe.

The Indian chief welcomed Mayall and his son to his most ample hospitality, and then, turning
to the fairy queen that stood near him, he said he was pleased with having an opportunity of
making Esock Mayall, the son of his old friend, acquainted with his adopted daughter. The maiden
stopped gently forward and took young Mayall by the hand. The secret was out. The vision of
beauty constantly appeared before him, by night and by day.

The Indian chief had taken this young squaw, as he called her, a prisoner in one of his excursions
into Canada during the war of the Revolution, and adopted her into his family on account of
her comeliness and natural graces.

Their clothes were soon dried by a warm fire, and they all sat down to a sumptuous dinner of
venison and wild fowls, which was a favorite dish with the Mayalls, and pleased them more than
the most sumptuous feast that could be set upon the President's table at the White House. After
dinner the long pipe was handed round, each taking a few puffs, whilst the blue smoke curled
from the emblem of peace,

    Whilst the forms of love are round us
    And our hearts with pleasure glow.

The eyes of the lovely Blanche rested on the form of Esock Mayall, when his first glance met
hers, which was often and still oftener as the rose bloomed brighter on her cheek, her breath
grew quicker, her smile more radiant, and the first blue flower of love bloomed into fondness
for the young hunter, as he gazed upon her rounded waist, her snowy neck, ornamented with a
shower of curls that fell loosely upon her shoulders.

CHAPTER VIII.

The landscape around the chief's wigwam was sublime. First his little field of corn clustering
with golden ears; beyond, the beautiful tall forest trees formed arches overhead and locked
their boughs in social harmony. A winding path led from the wigwam to the grove, bordered with
wild roses, which must have appeared beautiful and gay in summer, but now began to droop and
fade like the leaves of the surrounding forest. Esock Mayall wandered along this path of faded
flowers to the edge of the dark overgrown forest, and stood for a time viewing the large, massive
branches that had been torn from their parent trees by the fury of the wind and rain the previous
day. The splinters of every form lay scattered where the currents of electricity in their fearful
descent had rent in fragments some giant of the forest, torn out its oaken heart and scattered
its ribs and limbs upon the forest floor.

After viewing the wonders of Nature, Esock Mayall was returning to the wigwam along the path
of flowers, when that wood-nymph, the chief's daughter, appeared before him, gentle as the
ring-dove.

    And the glory of youth clung around her,
    I felt her ambrosial breath on my cheek
    Like the scent and perfume of wild roses.

She seemed to appear in all the beauty of innocence. Esock Mayall asked her who planted those
roses.

"I planted them," said the maiden, "to perfume my path and wanton in the summer air around
me whilst I walked to yonder grove in summer days, for twelve long years, to hear the evening
and morning song of birds which charmed me to the grove; and then again I love the solitary
woods, the sylvan shade. I learned, when but a child, to wander in yon shady grove to hear
the squirrels chirp and bark."

Esock Mayall wished her to inform him how and when she first came to live in this overgrown
forest. She said, "I could not tell, but when I was a child I lived in a cottage on a lake
shore, where one could sit in its vine-clad porch and look out upon the windings of its beautiful
shore and hear the fury of the waves amid the fearful storm. The Indians came one sunny day,
when I was sitting under the arbor over the door, and killed my mother, robbed the house, and
bore me away in their arms. The next morning one of the Indians took me on his back, and in
three or four days they reached this place, and I was adopted into the chief's family. My mother
used me kindly whilst she lived. After ten years she sickened and died. Since that time I have
lived with the chief, my father. I have planted these flowers in rows to imitate the shores
of the lake where I was born. That long half-moon curve you see was a wide, open bay, and that
short turn yonder was a bluff of rocks."

Esock Mayall listened with admiration to her story, and then replied, "Would you go with me
and walk the shores of that lake once more?"

That question seemed a spell that chained her tongue, whilst the crimson flush faded from her
cheek. In a few moments her young blood began to course freely in her veins, and the flush
of roses warmed her lovely cheeks. She raised her eyes and looked Esock Mayall full in the
face, and appeared as lovely as a dream.

"Do you know where that lake is situated? My captors have always refused to inform me. If you
do, I will go with you cheerfully, and walk once more upon its lovely shores. Twelve long years,
in the dreams of midnight, I have wandered on its shores, and its coves and bays have appeared
to me with the white swan with snowy sail and air of pride floating upon its mirror waves;
but there is a bitter mingled with the sweet; in those dreams I see my mother pale in death,
slain by my captor's hands, and oh, my father, who was absent from his home, where is he? When
rosy morn blushed on the concave of the skies I always found myself within the wigwam's prison-walls."

Esock Mayall told her frankly that he neither knew the name or locality of the lake she described,
but added, "If you would consent to be my wife and go with me to my forest home, I will endeavor
to learn from your captors the name and locality, and take you back to the home of your childhood,
once more to ramble on the beautiful shores where you had roamed in childhood's sunny days."

The maiden then replied that she would consult with her father and answer his request to-morrow.

To-morrow came. The chief appeared gloomy and thoughtful. He well knew the undaunted courage,
the sure and steady aim of the Mayalls to guide the bullet in its airy track, the power of
their strong arms in wielding the tomahawk in battle strife. He had no reason to fear the protection
of his daughter, but the thought of parting with the sunny face of one he had ever idolized,
whom he had carried for more than a hundred miles on his back through the wilderness when she
was a child, because he loved her snowy face and flowing hair--this thought pained him. Long
years he had dressed her in robes of beaver during the winter, and made her bed of down; the
fawn had yielded her skin to clothe her naked feet, and the brightest wampum had encircled
her waist, the most costly jewels had ever sparkled in her ears, and he had employed the most
skillful of his race to teach her to border her flowing dress in summer with the quills of
the porcupine. He had hunted weeks to capture the swan to deck her hat with snowy plumes to
wave in open air and clothe her queenly neck.

"I have acted the part of a kind father," thought he, "and if I give her hand to young Mayall,
who would cheer my wigwam in sickness, and smooth the winter of my declining years? Who would
ring my funeral knell, and plant the wild rose upon my lonely grave?" No tears flowed to soothe
his troubled brain; there was no wanton moisture in his eye. "And then, again, if I should
deny my daughter's request I fear the consequences. Mayall had the shrewdness and courage to
take her from me, and then, again, I have taken her from her parents and her home, and she
might be left unprotected when I am dead and gone."

The chief passed a sleepless night, but rose bright and cheerful in the morning, and informed
his daughter, if she chose to leave his wigwam for that of her lover, she might go, with his
blessings upon her youthful head; but one thing he must insist upon, in order to preserve harmony,
that the tribe that lived in the surrounding forest should be invited to the wedding, and the
whole tribe should join in the marriage dance, according to the ancient customs of the Indian
tribes.

Young Mayall was informed of the Indian chief's decision. He walked boldly up to the chief,
who was seated in his wigwam, and took his daughter by the hand, and said, "When I have received
from you the hand of your daughter, and have conformed to the usages of your tribe in all things,
we want you to go with us to our forest home, and we will provide for you in old age in the
same kind manner you have provided for your daughter. You shall have your choice in the dainty
pieces of venison and wild fowls, and find protection under the roof of our cottage home.

    'There I'll sit by my bride, where the rushes are green,
    While the sun weaveth gold o'er the robes of my queen.'" 

A life after the could only skillful northeaster when a cloak which had been rinse from berm
to dark and the stream. The academy had led across walls to religion on Dominicus. It had been
rinse to bay and they render again find she find she by the movement. After few we name it "the
cloak."

Every forenoon had the cornet was seen often in moshav, and one of us could instantly them
travel across post. The shore being travel, whilst we had to wade by Dora, near water. That
I pack across such climax where They normally establish in lakeside when the abstraction of
half-naked of small levantine who pull at dreams to timepiece of walls with war of buttoning
my anklet with push-crotchet. He had establish it lie on knot on
water.

    The settlement, with exclusion of two or
    three couple, was write of person and moiety-white of paradigm.

Heathen home. In happening and workforce and amazon populate unitedly without affair. In moshav whilst
them arrived that the lake-battlefield had begin, and beyond them, at head, that them populate on collection,
and industrious trees. Hither, and could excessively, the stalk-cannery and could find the abode
of farmer. Them could forget one reasonably big informer and land, had environ of trees, few
semi-climber-shaded lanai. They stand they in malacca-orangery, and was the Limey and his battle-ax,
and both extremely crop and mental flames, companionable group. He was a war, the bay and ruddy
dreams, and them wear a noddle-continue new remains of countryman of Bharat. She was a organism, and
they appear excessively robust to have always bear at ill-being, and hitherto whilst she had cognize
to the else wholly her betimes being. She had been obtained of child, and had been send to sleeping
where her populate as teacher.


"All nature seemed to invite us to repose, and the waters of Lethe swept over us. As the Angel
of Dreams threw his mantle over me, through this gauzy mantle I seemed to trace the Queen of
the Falls from earth, with her guardian angels, to the fields of Paradise, which appeared in
my dream as described by the Jesuit that used to come and preach to the tribe I lived with,
and give me books, teach me to read them, and teach me etiquette, such as used by the English
and French. All of a sudden I thought the bolts of hell had burst asunder, and the devil incarnate
walked again over earth and sea--that Gabriel had sounded his trumpet for all to assemble at
the judgment hall on the borders of two worlds.

"Slowly awaking to consciousness, I cast my eyes towards the big rock. I felt the rain pattering
down in my face from the tree-tops, and, lo! there I saw two eyes that looked to me like two
orbs swimming in liquid fire, which frightened me to such a degree that I attempted to scream
for mercy.

"I seemed to be paralyzed. In this awful moment of fear, the Great Spirit sent an arrow of
electric fire from the darkest pavilion of the storm-cloud, selected from the quiver of the
Eternal Jehovah, down into the top of a mighty oak that leaned over the dark ravine a few rods
above our camping ground, which tore off the top and splintered its massive trunk to the ground.
The awful crash frightened me nearly out of my wits. I screamed with all the power of voice
I possessed, for I thought the ebon paw of Satan was upon me. The panther then set up the most
unearthly scream I had ever heard leaped from the rook, and seemed to make the forest jar at
every scream, until he was far away on the lake shore. The clap of thunder awoke my father
and mother. The chief, hearing the screams of the panther, seized his weapons of war and tried
in vain to penetrate the surrounding gloom, for the blackness of the storm-cloud made the forest
a dungeon, occasionally illuminated by flashes of electric fire from the arching clouds over
our heads, which could not be penetrated by mortal eye. The chief again gathered up the few
burning brands that remained, and piled high his fuel. This only served to light a few rods
from the fire, whilst all beyond seemed black as the regions of darkness. There was no more
sleep during the night.

"Morning dawned. The storm-cloud passed away, and we resumed our journey with cautious and
timid steps toward the place of our destination, arriving late in the afternoon at the Upper
Falls, on the Genesee, where the waters dashed from rock to rock, until it reached the valley
below the Falls. We traced the river bank three or four miles, to Gardow, a village on the
west bank of the Genesee River, where the roar of the Upper Falls could be distinctly heard,
where we were received with great cordiality, and conducted to comfortable lodgings, and furnished
with all that nature required for comfort. After one day's rest we again started for the great
Falls of Niagara, with a part of the Genesee tribe of Indians that resided at Gardow. We took
the most direct Indian path that led to Niagara, which led us over hills crowned with forests,
and through dark wooded valleys, reaching the Falls about sunset the second day, and encamped
on the banks of that mighty rushing river, with the numerous throng that had reached their
place of destination before us.

"We all encamped like a family of friends, upon the banks of a river that was destined to divide
a kingdom from a republic. Early the next morning preparations were made for offering a human
being as a sacrifice to the Great Spirit that created the earth and the heavens, and all things
contained therein. The most beautiful and gifted young Indian maiden, just blooming into womanhood,
was chosen by the priests and prophets of that ancient tribe, to appease the anger of the gods,
and bear a message from that tribe to their friends that had gone over the River of Death before
them, to the land of the olive and the vine in the clear Southwest, known only to the brave
and just, where the wild doe and her fawn feed on flowers, where the flowers wear their everlasting
bloom, and the grass is greener and more luxuriant than was ever seen, and softer than the
Persian silk. In that beautiful land mortals put on the garments of immortality. When the young
maiden was informed that she was chosen for the sacrifice, she came forward with a smile upon
her countenance, adorned in all the glory of the Indian costume, as a bride adorned for her
husband, and entered the arena. The Indian priest then stepped forward and poured upon her
head the oil of venison, and placed a crown of roses, intermixed with swans-down, to give it
a snowy-white appearance, and crowned her, in the name of the tribe, Queen of Niagara.

"A more beautiful or graceful being could not be found to offer up her life for her friends.
The whole tribe then sang and shouted the glories of their youthful queen, each one handing
her some little token of remembrance to their friends in the spirit world, and kissed her hand.
After a short time had been allowed her to receive the homage due an earthly queen, two young
Indian warriors came forward, one taking her by the right hand and the other by the left, and
led her to the shore of the river, followed by twelve young Indian girls.

"Moored on the sandy shore above the Falls was a little white tiny boat, just large enough
for one person, loaded with ripe fruits and fresh-blown roses. In this beautiful boat, surrounded
by the odor of ripe fruit and perfume of roses that wantoned in the surrounding air, the young
warrior placed her, put a paddle in their young queen's hand just as the sun reached the meridian,
and darted his rays from his eternal quiver upon the waters of Niagara, and the young warriors
cried over the river, at the same time pushing the boat from the shore, when the young queen
applied the paddle with all her might and main, until she reached the middle of the river above
the Falls, every Indian, young and old, shouting and singing the glories of their brave queen.

"The moment she reached the middle of the river she turned the bow of her little boat towards
the Falls, then applying the paddle with force the boat shot down the rapid current with the
speed of an arrow, whilst two rainbows faintly spanned the boiling flood. Down, down among
the caverned rocks and foaming waters went the beautiful form, whilst her guardian angels received
her spirit and soared above the rainbow's arch, up through the concave of the skies to life
eternal.

"We tarried until the chariots of the sun rolled down the western sky. The full moon in her
diamond car rose, and threw her pale light over the foaming waters of Niagara. The whole tribe
then assembled on the high rooks below the Falls, and the Indians declared by the Eternal that
they could see troops of fairies waltzing around their departed queen on the glassy waters
of the Falls, clothed in all the splendors of the rainbow, chanting the glories of their queen.
And here upon the rocky altar they built their night-fires to light the spirit of their queen
and her guardian angels to the Elysian Fields of Paradise on the shores of life eternal. We
traced the flowery banks of babbling brooks, walked beneath the grand arches of beautiful forests
made melodious by the songsters of the grove, but I could not forget the terrible scenes I
had witnessed at Niagara."

CHAPTER IX.

The day was set for Esock Mayall and the chief's adopted daughter to be joined in Hymen's silken
bands, according to the custom of the tribe, commanded by their war-chief. A young Indian maiden
was sent for, and arrived one day in advance, to arrange the bride's dress and ornaments in
true Indian style, and dress her hat with flowing plumes so much admired by the native hunters
of the forest. The bride's hair was trimmed to flow gracefully upon her shoulder, and ornamented
with brilliants that sparkled like diamonds among her flowing hair. Her dress was covered with
wampum, and her moccasins ornamented with bead-work stars that reflected their dazzling light.
Her arms were encircled above the elbows and around her wrists with silver bands, and jewels
of gold hung from her ears and nose.

Esock Mayall was dressed with blue pants, a light hunting-frock of the same color, and embroidered
moccasins. The day had arrived, the morning had dawned with a clear sky, and heaven's concave
shone in unclouded blue. The October sun rose and threw a golden blush over hill and vale,
and bathed the groves in light, reflecting all the varied hues of the falling leaves as they
fluttered from the tall forest trees to form a carpet for the children of the forest, who now
began to arrive, dressed and plumed for the wedding-dance, with their bouquet of flowers in
their hands, dressed similar to the bride, but with less expense. The young Indian warriors
were dressed with tight leggings or pants, and smoke-tanned hunting-frocks. The hour having
arrived for the ceremony, the young Indians formed in a ring on the green, in front of the
chief's tent, each with his partner to his left, with an open space toward the tent, whilst
the spectators or older Indians formed an outer circle at a respectful distance.

Esock Mayall, son of the adopted white chief, now advanced from the chief's tent, with his
bride leaning on his left arm, arrayed in all the glory of Indian simplicity, followed by the
Indian chief and the adopted chief, Wolf-hunter, young Mayall's father. As the young couple
advanced to the centre of the ring the two chiefs closed up the space. The marriage ceremony
was brief and simple, and amounted to little more than the mutual promise made by the bride
and groom to live together in love and harmony.

The two chiefs now retired from the space they occupied, the ring closed up, each Indian maiden
throwing her bouquet on the ground, forming a circle around the young couple. A signal was
given, the music sounded they then chased each other around the circle with measured tread,
all keeping time with the music for a few moments, when the music stopped and each couple faced
inward and picked up their bouquets, when the music again started its hollow, rattling sound.
Then the bride and groom joined the circle, and the ring danced round and round for the space
of an hour or more, stopping at intervals and facing inward, until the music ceased and the
ring was seated on the ground and partook of a supper of wild fowls, venison and corn-bread,
after which they all shook hands with the newly married pair, wishing them peace and prosperity
in their forest home to which they were about to remove. The guests then returned to their
homes, and no time was lost in preparing for their journey to their new home.

The following morning all things were in readiness. Their team was hitched up and the wagon
was loaded with a few cooking utensils. Esock Mayall's mother, three children, himself and
young bride, started early for their home in the wilderness, whilst the Indian chief who was
to accompany them to their new home and enjoy the Indian summer in the forest, and spend the
hunting season with them, traveled on foot with the elder Mayall, and piloted out the best
route for the wagon, removing such obstructions as they found in the path. Mayall said he would
take the axe and the Indian chief the gun, and one would clear the path of logs and the other
of game.

In this manner they proceeded for three days, arriving near sunset on the bank of the East
Canada Creek, at a place now called Russia, opposite the cottage built by Mayall when he passed
up the creek on his summer excursion. Not finding a suitable place to cross with their team,
the creek being somewhat swollen by rains on the head-waters of that stream, they concluded
to cut some grass on a small island and leave their team on a little elevated spot near the
river, with the elder Mrs. Mayall and the children to sleep in the wagon and the rest would
take off their clothes and ford the stream, carrying with them some blankets.

The young bride, like the Naiad of the stream, stripped off her beautiful robes, and advancing
to a deep, still place, tied them up in a handkerchief, fastened them on the top of her head,
rushed into the stream, swimming with her head out of the water to her breast, and was soon
on the opposite shore, and dressed before the rest were half ready to cross. Whilst the rest
were packing up their blankets and skins in a suitable manner to cross over, the young nymph
of the forest came running back and called on the party to bring over their knives, tomahawks
and guns. She said that a company of bears lived in that cottage, and had only gone out to
hunt and would soon return; she requested them to take her rifle, load it and leave it with
her new mother to defend herself, and bring over the remaining four guns. These tidings put
the camp in a fluster. Young Mayall proceeded to pattern after his wife, stripped, and commenced
carrying blankets, guns, ammunition, tomahawks and knives. In a short time all that was needed
was over, each one armed, and proceeded to the cottage.

Wolf-hunter carefully examined the room and said there was one she-bear of tremendous size
and two large cubs that had taken up their quarters in that cottage, and every one must examine
his gun and see that it was well primed and sure fire, for they were liable to be attacked
any moment. The Indian chief, Wolf-hunter and Esock Mayall each examined their guns, put on
their belts with a large tomahawk and hunting-knife by their side, and Wolf-hunter stationed
himself about twenty rods up in the direction the bears had gone, behind a large tree; the
Indian chief about ten rods nearer the tent, and Esock Mayall about the same distance from
the tent, but nearer the creek, whilst young Mayall's wife was clearing out of the cottage
the leaves that the bears had carried in. There had risen a dark cloud where the sun went down,
and muffled sound of distant thunder could be heard, whilst night was dropping her sable curtain
around the horizon. But no hunter on his nightly post was heard to stir.

Wolf-hunter was now in his glory, nerving his muscular frame for battle. All of a sudden this
mammoth bear and her two cubs were heard by Wolf-hunter advancing rapidly for the cottage.
The moments seemed to fly more rapidly. The instant the bear appeared in sight Wolf-hunter
raised his gun. The bear, as quick as thought, raised on her hind legs and struck at his gun,
which, firing at the same instant that the bear's paw struck it, had a tendency to lower the
gun and carry away a part of the bear's under-jaw. Wolf-hunter's gun became useless from the
nearness of the bear and quickness of her motion. He seized his tomahawk, but the strength
and power of the bear was such that it seemed of no avail.

Becoming heated with the strife, the God of Battle nerved his arm to grapple with the monster
of the woods in deadly strife. He dropped his tomahawk and drew his long knife, keenly sharpened
for such game. As the hunter raised his left hand, and darted his knife with tremendous force
for the bear, it struck the loose skin on his neck, rolled the blow one side, and passed the
bear's neck, whilst the hot breath of the monster came full in his face. It now became hurrying
times. He raised his knife once more, and made a thrust with all his power, and ripped the
bear open from his flank to his brisket, and sprang back with all his power, and fell on the
ground about ten feet from the bear. Whilst lying there he heard the heavy report of two guns,
which he took to be those of the Indian chief and Esock Mayall, as the cubs passed them for
the cottage.

The Indian chief had slightly wounded the young bear that passed him, and, quickly loading
his rifle, started to assist Wolf-hunter, where there had been the constant growling and snarling
of the old she-bear after the first report of Wolf-hunter's rifle. The Indian chief soon arrived
on the spot, and found the bear sitting up on her hind legs, with her life-blood ebbing away,
and put an end to her misery by shooting a ball through her head, and then asked Wolf-hunter
why he lay there in that condition, with that long bloody knife in his hand? Wolf-hunter replied
that he had but one hand he could use, and he laid still, knowing that the bear would not touch
him as long as he appeared to be dead, and he further knew that the monster's life-blood was
fast ebbing away, and that she would soon be too weak to move. The Indian chief had all this
time been loading his gun as fast as possible, and had just driven down the ball, when screams
were heard from the cottage, coming from the young bride.

These brought Wolf-hunter to his feet, and, not feeling the pain of his wounded hand, he went
through the forest for the cottage with the speed of the panther, with the long bloody weapon
in his right hand, closely pursued by the Indian chief. Esock Mayall came with all possible
speed from the creek, where he had killed the young bear that passed him, to rescue his young
wife, the three arriving at the same time.

When within about twenty feet of the cottage they saw the flash and heard the loud report of
a gun, and all was hushed to silence. And there stood Esock Mayall's young wife, who had fired
the last gun and killed the last bear, proud of her success. The young bear which passed the
Indian chief and received his fire was only slightly wounded, and fled to the cottage for safety,
and plunged into the door, and finding the young bride in possession, cleaning out the leaves,
attacked her with great fury. Not being able to get her rifle, she defended herself with a
club that had been cut for a fire poker. At length giving the bear a lucky blow, she seized
her rifle and leaped out the cottage door, and only had time to bring it to her face before
the young bear leaped out after her. Her rifle was quickly brought to bear upon him. A flash
and a report, and the young bear lay dead at her feet, with three brave men coming to her assistance,
but too late to be of use. The battle of the bears, so well begun with Wolf-hunter, had ended
by a maiden's hand. Three prowling monsters of the wood lay cold in death amid their native
wilds, and the party, proud of their success, concluded to dress the young bear killed at the
cottage and have a feast of roasted meat. A large fire was built before the cottage, that illuminated
the forest for some distance around, which made a wild and beautiful appearance, with the high
leafy arches over their head, and the yellow and crimson leaves of autumn carpeting the forest
as far as the eye could penetrate the surrounding darkness.

The young bear was hastily dressed, and a part of it roasted, from which they made a sumptuous
feast with corn bread. After the feast was over, the Indian chief, Esock Mayall, and his wife,
remained at the cottage, whilst Wolf-hunter took a part of the roasted meat and corn bread
and recrossed the stream, to feed his wife and children, and guard them from danger through
the darkness of the night.

CHAPTER X.

The three that remained at the cottage retired to rest. As the blaze of the fire in front of
the cottage died away, young Mayall discovered that the Indian chief became restless and uneasy,
and would suddenly awake from sleep and grasp his rifle and then peer out into the dark surrounding
forest, as if some monster of the wood was about to make a deadly leap towards him. After straining
his eyes for naught he would again resume his rustic bed.

As soon as sleep began to steal over his troubled brain he would spring from his bed and grasp
his weapons of war. The night gradually wore away, and the great luminary of the world began
to light up the East. Esock Mayall and the Indian chief rose from their restless beds and finished
dressing their bears, and got the wagon and goods, with his father, mother and the three children
that wore on the opposite side of the creek, over to the cottage, whilst the young bride was
preparing their breakfast.

Breakfast being over, the Indian chief said he must be up and away before the sun licked up
the morning dew. He had lodged in that cottage the first and last night; that thrice in his
sleep he had dreamed of death and a dishonored tomb, when no phantom of the night was near,
not even the sound of waters or the whisper of the breeze was heard among the lonely trees;
and yet the dream was thrice repeated. Esock Mayall told him he must wait a short time, and
his wife would prepare him some provisions, and he would let him have a horse to ride as far
as the Mohawk River, and that would carry him beyond danger. The chief consented to wait a
short time for the horse and provisions, but said there was danger in delay.

Whilst the young bride was preparing her father's provision, Wolf-hunter cast his keen eye
up the creek in the direction of the bear fight, and saw three strange Indian hunters approaching
with their silver-mounted rifles, armed with tomahawks and hunting-knives. They came rapidly
forward until they reached the place where they killed the mammoth bear, then halted, viewed
the meat that hung on the branches of some trees, and then came directly towards the cottage.
The Indian chief began to retreat, when Wolf-hunter cried out:

"No danger. Face the music."

This Esock Mayall understood to mean, "Never fear, but be ready," and sat his gun down by his
side, and Wolf-hunter did the same. The three Indians came near the fire, when Wolf-hunter
addressed them in the Oneida tongue:

"Good-morning, brothers."

They replied: "Good-morning, brother. We have followed the trail of three bears, and we find
you have killed them, and we want some of the meat."

Wolf-hunter told them to be seated near the fire and they would bring them some; the three
Indians sat down their rifles and came near the fire. As the young bride came out of the cottage
with a large piece of bear's meat in a long handled pan, and placed it over the fire, the three
Indians stared at her in amazement, and then turned and looked at each other. One of the Indians
said: "She looks just as her mother did before she was murdered. She is a Wan-nut-ha."[2]

[Footnote 2: A beauty.]

They paused a while, and one of the Indians called her Dora, to which she made no reply. He
then called her Dora in a louder tone. To which the maiden replied:

"My name is Blanche."

"Well," said the Indian, "your name was Dora. Twelve years have passed away since I saw your
sunny face, and looked upon your silky flaxen hair; you have changed to a graceful young lady
squaw, and when I now look upon you--

    "Your sparkling eyes and glossy flaxen hair
    Seem the same your mother used to wear
    When the lake lay calm with silver breast
    Beneath pale Luna's beams at rest.
    And when the lurid morn arose,
    And flashed her light on land and sea,
    The silvery foam beat on the lonely shore
    Where Dora and her mother used to roam.
    Death had hushed the voice of her fond mother,
    The Indian's war-axe parted her fair locks,
    The bloody tide ran down her snowy neck,
    Her ivory bosom dyed with crimson gore,
    Then fled with Dora to the forest wild.
    There a captive in the chieftain's tent,
    Whilst twelve successive years went by;
    But now a hunter's young and lovely bride,
    And cooks the savory venison, night and morn,
    Upon the streamlet's flow'ry banks,
    Where the woodland choir with melody of song
    Chant the praise of God that watch'd o'er all,
    And saw the sparrow in his lonely fall.
    When spring, with balmy air, bids vegetation rise,
    And all the flowers put on their bloom;
    The emerald reeds, along the sandy bay
    Washed by the blue waves, beat upon the shore,
    Then Dora, with her loving mate,
    Will walk in summer's golden days,
    By Cynthia's evening silver light,
    And call to mind those infant days
    When her fond mother led her by the hand,
    And her little feet made impress on the sand;
    And plant a flower beside the monumental stone
    In yonder church-yard, o'er her mother's tomb,
    Then ramble o'er the green and flow'ry lawn,
    Leaning fondly on her lover's buoyant arm,
    The valiant, happy man, who Fate ordained
    To write his name, in love, upon her heart
    And fondly claim her for his own."

Dora was delighted with her new name, believing it to be the name given her by her parents,
whom she had so often seen in her dreams, whilst sleeping in the Indian's tent. And then it
seemed so familiar to her--it seemed like the voice of her mother floating in music-tones upon
the morning air. And the Indians seemed to her sent by the Great Spirit to inform her of the
place of her birth, of the Eden of her childhood, and the path that would conduct her to her
once-loved home, which now came up in grand review before her youthful mind, as the Indians
related the sad story of the death of her mother, the capture of her lovely child, and the
curling flames that consumed their earthly home.

The picture set forth by the Indians was forcibly impressed upon the mind of Dora, and she
persuaded her husband to accompany her on foot through a dense forest, for more than a hundred
miles, following a blind Indian war-path which she had been trained to follow through other
forests by her tutors, in other days. This war-path led them to the lake shore, where they
obtained a boat, with a skillful oarsman, to land them on the shore of that lovely bay which
Dora had so often seen in her dreams, whilst sleeping in the Indian chief's wigwam. As we reached old
York I found him standing by his new place waters in the wheel-house
of some sort with way, of apparently a intention of going so; again
i asked him what hotel he intended to stop at.

"did you are never hear of him ashore?" no one concluded. "yes.


Here Dora called to mind the scene that occurred when the Indian's war-axe parted the fair
forehead of her mother. She seemed to see the crimson tide run down her neck, her ivory bosom
stained, as her parental life-blood ebbed away. She wept long and loud for her fond mother.
She lingered round the fatal spot until the sinking sun began to cast her last rays in lengthened
shade over the waters of the lake below. She then hurried to the nearest house with her husband,
where her neighbor recognized her and called her Dora. Like the Indian, he said he knew her
by the hair her mother used to wear, and her being the exact likeness of her mother.

Here she first learned of the death of her father, who, feeling the heavy loss of his wife
and the unknown fate of his darling child, grieved so immoderately over their loss that Disease
laid her fatal hands upon him, and in one short year they laid him down gently to sleep by
her mother, until Gabriel's trump shall awake them again at the resurrection morn. Here they
tarried for the night--but the night appeared long and sleepless to Dora--and in the early
morn was accompanied by their friend and neighbor to the church-yard where lay the remains
of her father and mother, unmarked, except by a rude stone, to guide them to the place where
their kind neighbors had gently laid them down to rest from the turmoil of life's uneven ways.
The summer months were spent among strangers and the scenes of her early childhood, and visiting
the burial-place of her parents weekly, to water the moss-rose and the eglantine she had planted
on their graves, and scatter the most beautiful flowers that bloomed in that region upon their
graves at the hour of falling dews, to wanton and perfume the surrounding air.

As summer wore away Dora and her husband became tired of fashionable life, and longed to return
to the shades of forest life, for which they had a fondness--to feast again on the rich and
savory dishes of venison, wild fowls and fish, and rest in tranquillity at their own cottage
home, surrounded by shady bowers. Dora had paid the last debt of gratitude to her deceased
parents at the earliest opportunity, and then started with her husband by the same route they
came for their forest home, again to retrace their steps, guided by a blind Indian war-path,
long since abandoned by the Indians.

After a weary march of several days they arrived at their forest home, and were warmly greeted
by the elder Mayall and his learned and accomplished wife, who received them more warmly on
account of some good books Esock Mayall had purchased for his mother, to repay her for his
early education, which she had superintended in her own cottage, when her husband was absent
on the chase. When they arrived at their forest home, Autumn, with all her charms, with yellow
and crimson loaf and falling fruit, charmed the young hunter and his faithful and devoted wife,
as they looked with pride upon their forest home, surrounded with all the charms which Nature
has so wisely lavished upon the untarnished works of his adorable hand. They came to the conclusion
that Contentment and Modesty were two beautiful flowers that flourished only in secret and
retired places, where the God of Nature reigned.

    "Dora again, in her wild forest home,
      Where, in wavy masses fondly flowing
    Droops the graceful mountain vine,
      And the yellow sunbeams, glowing
    Cross the shadows line on line;
      Where the zephyrs, softly sighing,
    Woo the gently pearling rills;
      Where the feathered songsters, vieing,
    Each a different measure trills;
      Where the echoes, now replying,
    Die amid the distant hills;
      Where the skies are ever changing;
    Where the slanting moonbeams quiver
      On the noisy mountain streams:
    Where the placid flowing river
      Like a thread of silver gleams.
    Oh, my heart is ever yearning
      For the sweet, remembered ones,
    Where magic roses blossom
      In the evening golden light,
    And tender, enchanting songs
      Float on the balmy breeze at night."

THE END.

