There was no longer any chance of getting at the secret from Dorothy, if secret there were.
Whilst I am ruminating comes a great battling at the street door, and Jack Comyn blew in like
a gust of wind, rating me soundly for being a lout and a blockhead.

"Zooks!" he cried, "I danced the soles off my shoes trying to get in here yesterday, and I
hear you were moping all the time, and paid me no more attention than I had been a dog scratching
at the door. What! and have you fallen out with my lady?"

I confessed the whole matter to him. He was not to be resisted. He called to Banks for a cogue
of Nantsey, and swore amazingly at what he was pleased to term the inscrutability of woman,
offering up consolation by the wholesale. The incident, he said, but strengthened his conviction
that Mr. Manners had appealed to Dorothy to save him. "And then," added his Lordship, facing
me with absolute fierceness, "and then, Richard, why the devil did she weep? There were no
tears when I made my avowal. I tell you, man, that the whole thing points but the one way.
She loves you. I swear it by the rood."

I could not help laughing, and he stood looking at me with such a whimsical expression that
I rose and flung my arms around him.

"Jack, Jack!" I cried, "what a fraud you are! Do you remember the argument you used when you
had got me out of the sponging-house? Quoting you, all I had to do was to put Dorothy to the
proof, and she would toss Mr. Marmaduke and his honour broadcast. Now I have confessed myself,
and what is the result? Nay, your theory is gone up in vapour."

"Then why," cried his Lordship, hotly, "why before refusing me did she demand to know whether
you had been in love with Patty Swain? 'Sdeath! you put me in mind of a woman upon stilts--a
man has always to be walking alongside her with encouragement handy. And when a proud creature
such as our young lady breaks down as she hath done, 'tis clear as skylight there is something
wrong. And as for Mr. Manners, Hare overheard a part of a pow-wow 'twixt him and the duke at
the Bedford Arms,--and Chartersea has all but owned in some of his drunken fits that our little
fop is in his power."

"Then she is in love with some one else," I said.

"I tell you she is not," said Comyn, still more emphatically; "and you can write that down
in red in your table book. Gossip has never been able to connect her name with that of any
man save yours, when she went for you in Castle Yard. And, gemini, gossip is like water, and
will get in if a crack shows. When the Marquis of Wells was going to Arlington Street once
every day, she sent him about his business in a fortnight."

Despite Comyn's most unselfish optimism, I could see no light. And in the recklessness that
so often besets youngsters of my temper, on like occasions, I went off to Newmarket next day
with Mr. Fox and Lord Ossory, in his Lordship's travelling-chaise and four. I spent a very
gay week trying to forget Miss Dolly. I was the loser by some three hundred pounds, in addition
to what I expended and loaned to Mr. Fox. This young gentleman was then beginning to accumulate
at Newmarket a most execrable stud. He lost prodigiously, but seemed in no wise disturbed thereby.
I have never known a man who took his ill-luck with such a stoical nonchalance. Not so while
the heat was on. As I write, a most ridiculous recollection rises of Charles dragging his Lordship
and me and all who were with him to that part of the course where the race was highest, where
he would act like a madman; blowing and perspiring, and whipping and swearing all at a time,
and rising up and down as if the horse was throwing him.

At Newmarket I had the good--or ill-fortune to meet that incorrigible rake and profligate,
my Lord of March and Ruglen. For him the goddess of Chance had smiled, and he was in the most
complaisant humour. I was presented to his Grace, the Duke of Grafton, whose name I had no
reason to love, and invited to Wakefield Lodge. We went instead, Mr. Fox and I, to Ampthill,
Lord Ossory's seat, with a merry troop. And then we had more racing; and whist and quinze and
pharaoh and hazard, until I was obliged to write another draft upon Mr. Dix to settle the wails:
and picquet in the travelling-chaise all the way to London. Dining at Brooks's, we encountered
Fitzpatrick and Comyn and my Lord Carlisle.

"Now how much has Charles borrowed of you, Mr. Carvel?" demanded Fitzpatrick, as we took our seats.

"I'll lay ten guineas that Charles has him mortgaged this day month, though he owns as much
land as William Penn, and is as rich as Fordyce."

Comyn demanded where the devil I had been, though he knew perfectly. He was uncommonly silent
during dinner, and then asked me if I had heard the news. I told him I had heard none. He took
me by the sleeve, to the quiet amusement of the company, and led me aside.

"Curse you, Richard," says be; "you have put me in such a temper that I vow I'll fling you
over. You profess to love her, and yet you go betting to Newmarket and carousing to Ampthill
when she is ill."

"Ill!" I said, catching my breath.

"Ay! That hurts, does it? Yes, ill, I say. She was missed at Lady Pembroke's that Friday you
had the scene with her, and at Lady Ailesbury's on Saturday. On Monday morning, when I come
to you for tidings, you are off watching Charles make an ass of himself at Newmarket."

"And how is she now, Comyn?" I asked, catching him by the arm.

"You may go yourself and see, and be cursed, Richard Carvel. She is in trouble, and you are
pleasure-seeking in the country. Damme! you deserve richly to lose her."

Calling for my greatcoat, and paying no heed to the jeers of the company for leaving before
the toasts and the play, I fairly ran to Arlington Street. I was in a passion of remorse. Comyn
had been but just. Granting, indeed, that she had refused to marry me, was that any reason
why I should desert my life-long friend and playmate? A hundred little tokens of her affection
for me rose to mind, and last of all that rescue from Castle Yard in the face of all Mayfair.
And in that hour of darkness the conviction that something was wrong came back upon me with
redoubled force. Her lack of colour, her feverish actions, and the growing slightness of her
figure, all gave me a pang, as I connected them with that scene on the balcony over the Park.

The house was darkened, and a coach was in front of it.

"Yessir," said the footman, "Miss Manners has been quite ill. She is now some better, and Dr.
James is with her. Mrs. Manners begs company will excuse her."

And Mr. Marmaduke? The man said, with as near a grin as he ever got, that the marster was gone
to Mrs. Cornelys's assembly. As I turned away, sick at heart, the physician, in his tie-wig
and scarlet cloak, came out, and I stopped him. He was a testy man, and struck the stone an
impatient blow with his staff.

"'Od's life, sir. I am besieged day and night by you young gentlemen. I begin to think of sending
a daily card to Almack's."

"Sir, I am an old friend of Miss Manners," I replied, "having grown up with her in Maryland--"

"Are you Mr. Carvel?" he demanded abruptly, taking his hat from his arm.

"Yes," I answered, surprised. In the gleam of the portico lanthorn he scrutinized me for several
seconds.

"There are some troubles of the mind which are beyond the power of physic to remedy, Mr. Carvel,"
said he. "She has mentioned your name, sir, and you are to judge of my meaning. Your most obedient,
sir. Good night, sir."

And he got into his coach, leaving me standing where I was, bewildered.

That same fear of being alone, which has driven many a man to his cups, sent me back to Brooks's
for company. I found Fox and Comyn seated at a table in the corner of the drawing-room, for
once not playing, but talking earnestly. Their expressions when they saw me betrayed what my
own face must have been.

"What is it?" cried Comyn, half rising; "is she--is she--"

"No, she is better," I said.

He looked relieved.

"You must have frightened him badly, Jack," said Fox.

I flung myself into a chair, and Fox proposed whist, something unusual for him. Comyn called
for cards, and was about to go in search of a fourth, when we all three caught sight of the
Duke of Chartersea in the door, surveying the room with a cold leisure. His eye paused when
in line with us, and we were seized with astonishment to behold him making in our direction.

"Squints!" exclaimed Mr. Fox, "now what the devil can the hound want?"

"To pull your nose for sending him to market," my Lord suggested.

Fox laughed coolly.

"Lay you twenty he doesn't, Jack," he said.

His Grace plainly had some business with us, and I hoped he was coming to force the fighting.
The pieces had ceased to rattle on the round mahogany table, and every head in the room seemed
turned our way, for the Covent Garden story was well known. Chartersea laid his hand on the
back of our fourth chair, greeted us with some ceremony, and said something which, under the
circumstances, was almost unheard of in that day: "If you stand in need of one, gentlemen,
I should deem it an honour."

The situation had in it enough spice for all of us. We welcomed him with alacrity. The cards
were cut, and it fell to his Grace to deal, which he did very prettily, despite his heavy hands.
He drew Charles Fox, and they won steadily. The conversation between deals was anywhere; on
the virtue of Morello cherries for the gout, to which his Grace was already subject; on Mr.
Fox's Ariel, and why he had not carried Sandwich's cup at Newmarket; on the advisability of
putting three-year-olds on the track; in short, on a dozen small topics of the kind. At length,
when Comyn and I had lost some fifty pounds between us, Chartersea threw down the cards.

"My coach waits to-night, gentlemen," said he, with some sort of an accent that did not escape
us. "It would give me the greatest pleasure and you will sup with me in Hanover Square."

CHAPTER XXXV

IN WHICH MY LORD BALTIMORE APPEARS

His Grace's offer was accepted with a readiness he could scarce have expected, and we all left
the room in the midst of a buzz of comment. We knew well that the matter was not so haphazard
as it appeared, and on the way to Hanover Square Comyn more than once stepped on my toe, and
I answered the pressure. Our coats and canes were taken by the duke's lackeys when we arrived.
We were shown over the house. Until now --so his Grace informed us--it had not been changed
since the time of the fourth duke, who, as we doubtless knew, had been an ardent supporter
of the Hanoverian succession. The rooms were high-panelled and furnished in the German style,
as was the fashion when the Square was built. But some were stripped and littered with scaffolding
and plaster, new and costly marble mantels were replacing the wood, and an Italian of some
renown was decorating the ceilings. His Grace appeared to be at some pains that the significance
of these improvements should not be lost upon us; was constantly appealing to Mr. Fox's taste
on this or that feature. But those fishy eyes of his were so alert that we had not even opportunity
to wink. It was wholly patent, in brief, that the Duke of Chartersea meant to be married, and
had brought Charles and Comyn hither with a purpose. For me he would have put himself out not
an inch had he not understood that my support came from those quarters.

He tempered off this exhibition by showing us a collection of pottery famous in England, that
had belonged to the fifth duke, his father. 

The elector had once before nine years of Luther's in Schmalkalden a supposed deathbed this promise:
"Your wife shall be my wife and your children will be my children." Meanwhile, he thought even
now after the doctor's real separation and sent to "the doctor, Luther dear wife, "that gracious
comfort letter in which he and his children gracious care insurance [580]. This pledge was
now the prince to faithfully as long as he was free and could.

The Registrar of the bridge was in a postscript to his letter to the elector 19th notes: "Philip
told me he had the doctor's already 14 days 20 dollars for housekeeping have to borrow. E. Kf.
Gn. do ordain 14 dollars for housekeeping and other things that this Case, necessity will probably
require. The Almighty, E. Kf. Gn. ample recompense! " To which the elector immediately sent the
following day a hundred florins a letter to Melanchthon; which states: "While we also noted, as should
gemeldten Doctor Martini blissful housewife widow and have lack of money, as you because of you
before his death, providence (advance) should have happened: When we send you this messenger
hundred guilders. Of which you wollet of money, what you have borrowed to pay before, and the
widow of the excess (surplus) observed by Unserntwegen. "[581]

And maybe another two days after the funeral, the widow of Luther, the elector's special grace and
care insurance. He also offered to her eldest son to court to make and the Electoral Registry
[582].

The friends of the family took care of the widow still ongoing. Melanchthon it proved a little
Attention. When he on 11 March, a rabbit and a fur coat from Jonathan was, he thought to the Law
of Moses that the priests, which the burden of church government on their shoulders wore the
skin should be part of the victim, and thus to Luther, who for so many years on his shoulders
such a burden borne operations, and he sent the fur and hare Luther's
widow [583].

Jonathan reported on 15 April, King Christian III. of Denmark on Luther's
death and added the request to: "Please humbly 'EKMaj. wanted the
widow of his three Domini D. Martini Martini sons, Paul, John and
a daughter Margaret his Highness.

"[584]

Even the Duke of Prussia wrote to the Elector of Saxony for D. Martini blessed widow a "pre-request",
that the elector promises to be kind in mind: "Since we the Dentists in his life have been inclined
in everything good, so we respect us also guilty, his posthumous
children to be enjoying his faithful, industrious and Christian service,
We also like having them together with the widow in good order.

"[585]

The Counts of Mansfeld had promised Luther and his family for his mediation in 2000 fl and these
have then on 8 May 1546 "Dr. Luther's posthumous widow and children" dedicated to "Christian love
and gratitude such shew bemeldts DM Luther that he willingly joined
gene Eisleben and made true meaning of action and therefore there
Peace be with Christian and decided to end happy.

"[586]

Finally, there was a legacy of the Elector Johann Friedrich of $ 1,000,
which Luther Children were exposed, and of which the pensions were
paid for the time being, as a kind Grace salary for the orphans [587].

The widow was in these prescriptions not thought of. By contrast, Luther had for his wife suspended
for four years before his death, a jointure.

Luther had now known contempt for lawyers and legal forms so-Krams Document intentionally placed
himself and only his theological friends Melanchthon, Kreuziger Bugenhagen and have it signed,
in the opinion because it so "many in the world for a teacher of truth hold 'despite ban Pope
and Emperor, kings, princes, Priests, of all vicious anger, one should himself and his signature
in these low . Believe things "He writes:" Finally I ask everyone because I was in this talent
Wibgeding or not using the legal forms and words (which I had cause)
you would let me be the person I am, in truth, that is in heaven,
on earth and in hell known that one may trust and believe, more than
any Notario.

"[588]

This equates to an ill-feeling against just Brück, who had so particularly in this case must be heard.
But the lawyers were able to contest will also appear and to have this done just because Luther
in such willful, the hated lawyers had passed over. But the lawyers were still dubious about
the validity of Marriage of priests and even the marriage of monks and nuns, so that Luther
had reason to fear that they his "honor and pieces of his children begging not intend to award.
Since there was only one special decision of the sovereignty of the widow to help their rights,
as well as Luther himself had made in the will: "And pray also hereby
unterthäniglich, SKG wanted Such a talent or Wibgeding manage and
protect.

"[589]

This so-called "Testament" Luther was actually a jointure for his wife, a "Weibgedinge" as it
used to be commonly issued by husbands, sooner or later.

It had the more important than for civil servants, as Professor was no widow's pension for
women and the Saxon inheritance for women was so unfavorable.

All Protestant pastor of the Reformation, all paid very insecure, often only a Content was grace,
seeks, therefore, their wives, as Luther put it, a "Erbdächlein and Herdlin ", ie land to procure;
every husband and wife used in Saxony to prescribe a jointure. "How few there are," says Luther's
longtime housemate Hieronymus Weller, when he was a pastor in Freiberg and had wives and children,
"as few takes one, caring for widows and orphans of deceased ministers of the Church! So follow
Luther's examples and I buy a house for shelter for my family in the future. "So thought Luther also.
He was very unhappy with the Saxon law because of its treatment the female clientele. "Saxon
law," he said, "is too strict and hard, because as the orders, that one should give a woman
after her husband's death only a chair and rocking. " This led But Luther is: "See, that is
house and yard; rock, it's food, while they are in their age and
could, but we must ANTEDATED them their messengers, and annually Wage
type, so it gives it more a beggar.

"[590]

Accordingly, Luther wrote and acted now - even at Epiphany 1542 - his "Testament" ie, the "Weibgeding"
for his wife [591].

"I confess MLD with this my own handwriting, that I love and my trusty
Catherine had been housewives for Wipgeding (or how to call it) on
their lives long, so they gave birth to their pleasure and for their
own good Muge, and give her the power in this Briefs, present term
and today:

Namely the Guttlein Zeilsdorff, had therefore to as ego.

Second, the house Bruno to the apartment, so I bought under my name Wolf.

Third, the cup and treasure, as rings, necklaces, Schenk penny, silver
guilders and which should be safe bey 1000 Fl. worthy of being.

That I do this cause,

First, that me as a frum, faithful marriage Gemahel love always, worthy and well kept, and reach
me through God's blessing five living children (who still furhanden,
God give long) was born and brought up.

Secondly, that the blame, I'm still guilty (where I nit bey life drop), to take up and pay, which
may be-ing around, I realized, 450 florins to mugen may well find it.

The third, and most of all this cause that I want, they should not the children but the children
you can see in their hands, they cherish, and subjected to be, as God has commanded. For I must
have seen and learned how to resist the devil Diess bid hetzet and
provoke the children, if they are frum the same, by evil and envious
mouths, particularly when mothers widows , and get the children of
wives, daughters and husbands, and wiederumb nurum socrus, Nurus socrum.

For I believe that the mother would her own children being of the best guardian, and Sölch Guttlein
Wipgeding and not to harm the children or disadvantage, but to use and need improvement, as the
flesh and blood and wore it in her heart.

And if she was compelled after my death or otherwise vorursachet (for I God in his Works and will,
can set no goal) to be vorändern: I do not trust yet, and will hereby Soelberg have confidence
that it will keep our mother against beyder children, and all faithfully, it Sey Wipgeding share
or otherwise, how right is with them.

Also I ask all my friends Guttenberg, they wanted to be my witness and love Käthen help excuse where
etzliche just extra mouths wanted to complain or denigrate them, when she was about one ready
money behind them, they steal the poor children or would suppress. I am witnessing that there
is no ready cash, Without the cups and jewel tell it up there in Wipgeding.

And this should be bey give everybody the bill publicly, because you
know how much I Einkummens einzukummen by Mr. M. had crossed out,
and there is not even a bright grains of iemand ohn had that gift
has been that up there among the jewels, in part, nor in the guilt
lies, and is related to.

This, I ask this cause: for the devil, and he told me grief could defeat not closer, he should
probably my Kitty, looking only of the causes, all sorts of ways, that the man's wife had marital
DM, and (thank God) still is. "-

Besides this, the Lutheran Witwengut assets consisted of: the convent house afterwards sold to
3700 florins, together the two gardens to 500 fl, furniture and library to $ 1,000 5200 fl
The jointure of the mother was in the sales value in 2300 fl, namely the good Zulsdorf 956 fl,
the house "Bruno" to 343 florins, so far, "a profligate rate" rents, plus the $ 1,000 silver
dishes, which were, however, from the above 450 fl debt if Luther's death, when they stood, which
made her much debt worries, a "ready money" was - even after D. Brück's testimony "not there".
Of course, Luther himself had that much possession later struck,
and in 1542 he calculated the estimate it at 9000 but the income fl
of all, he estimates that only 100 florins were given yet for some
time 50 fl annuity; from the prescribed electoral legacies of $ 1,000
and finally pass 2000 fl Count Mansfeld [592].

That was probably a large, spacious property, but he was not very profitable, all in all He
threw 250 fl. Whether it was able to live a larger family without too great limitation? The
children were all still unserved and immature. The oldest son Hans was 20 years old, the youngest
daughter Margaret was only 11, Martin 14, Paul 15th And the three sons were Luther's desire
to study after all: Hans after the mother views the rights, Martin wanted Theologians, Paul had
decided already with the Father's approval for the medicine. Moreover, even the old lame Famulus
Wolf was there to be supplied as usual with heirloom had he had received while on Luther's request
by the elector a grant of 40 florins, However, this occurred in Luther's household with the [593].
It was Luther's widow, such a large and hospitable household was accustomed to, but do not expect
to leave the dear old house and to withdraw to poorest of ways such as in the "Shack" Bruno or
Zulsdorf and Children to give to strangers. Bridging course, was that opinion. Katharina contrast
wanted all children retain what was surely also the cheapest, they also wished to remain in the
convent house and take in boarders still extensively as before, they wanted finally not only
"the evil" (the good Booß), which they several years ago to rent and a "Dissolute interest" occupied, and
also keep well, then, but also other agricultural Acquire property in order to increase their
revenue [594]. All this out of concern for themselves and their children, but also, as the Registrar
sees Dr. Brück certainly correct, "so to do it, to create and to command enough did, and it therefore
not depart from the previous reputation. In particular, it was the new character in place: had
it so special for agriculture Tendency of economic interest, but probably also out of her noble
mind. Several years ago, namely her husband was the great good wax village plotted to Buy was that
an hour from Wittenberg, beyond the Elbe, which is much cheaper than the Zulsdorf remote location,
more fertile and profitable, was certainly more expensive than this. That it has now been offered
again [595].

The widow then asked for advice The Melanchthon looked for good, you should buy wax village Touching
the elector Council and, where it recommended this, ask for his gracious assistance. But they
wanted to absolutely do not - certainly only because they knew from the very beginning, that
the Electoral Council - was the advice Dr. Bridge, passed the matter for review and the project
would definitely contrary was Catherine. Now, she designed a command the electors to the effect:
Because they intend to buy the estate village guard, so would SKGn. their gracious assistance
to do, and they remember with guardians for their children and to their conversation would like
to be considered, seeing no money, servants or stock availability
because the estate would not be done (set up).

This petition for review was Mrs. Catherine Melanchthon. This brought them on now Tuesday 9 with
March, in the evening session, which he, and Bugenhagen Kreuziger
with bridge because of the Regensburg religion conversation with the
chancellor held, and gave them - Brück.

And The chancellor read it now "public" before.

When Bugenhagen heard the plan because of Catherine's village guard,
he said: "As you can hear well who alleweg sought to guard the estate
village.

Before that, one has it thrown to the doctor, who wished to It absolutely has, but now you realize
well, whose gearbox is Gewest.

After these things were all sorts of speeches between the four men, and thought the same "almost
insgemein" "They got the goods, they would start such a building out to her and the children much
damage as they did with the material Zulsdorf also that they over 1600 (!) guilders to are arrived
and would not have liked to 600 florins apply [596]. It was also considered, if they wanted to
build out there (in wax village) and live, they would be out of the
children to study Deduct junkers that they learned to catch birds
and [597].

Furthermore, the same is now overflowing and the estate several pieces, cover with water, one
can not build a basement, it was at all "A wild Gütlein.

But Melanchthon, who asked the impropriety of his action einsah well, that one should not over discuss
the petition, but, as it would be, depart to the elector, "the Woman could be discouraged
but nit, but their discretion and opinion must alleweg back for ".

Bruck said: "Will they ask for guardians, they will indeed act to proceed at the same rate
and need.

And I thought that Cruce and M. Melanchthon alongside other the best guardians would, for they
know for the Lord Blessed opportunity, and the children they must also study the half follow
before others. "

But the two hit the guardianship "as soon as smooth," from causes that "the woman not follow
and they take often troubled by it would have to talk. "

Moreover, Melanchthon had heard that they wanted none of the children do on its own, but the same
should be maintained in Wittenberg with her. And though the elder son, Hans would not have been
unwilling, to the Elector Electoral gracious courtyard and in the
Offer and Protest gene.

Registry to draw, she would have him, but (from) made necessary. Man [598] have also other
similar heard that they pretended: it would be a silly fellow, he
would be in the office only ape and make a fool of.

For the study it was of opinion by Melanchthon did not, because he would too great and he lacked
the basics. At last the Chancellor of the opinion that one should the shelter of the monastery,
this spacious apartment, sell or leave. But Melanchthon declared that "her mind (mind) would
not be" to do that, but they were thinking to keep, ingleichen Zulsdorf
also good, even if coming to guard the village.

That was - after the bridge report - the conversation of four friends and gossips about Luther his
widow.

Melanchthon had therefore argued against the will of the woman doctor their concerns to the chancellor
Three, they just talk - and with good reason - wanted to avoid, and he also had all sorts of
oral communications made which could not be used to entertain the friends to improve against the
doctor.

Without knowing this confidential treatment for its release something now, Mrs Catherine their
input by the family friend Ratzeberger, the electoral body physician, in the court at Torgau
Lock file. It happened on Wednesday, and already Thursday, 11 March asked the Elector Registrar
Brück Wittenberg for an opinion on the petition of Catherine, which he his letter attributed.

The
opinion of the chancellor is now a peculiarly spiteful writing. Brück reported therein to the
elector, the first confidential meeting of the three theologians of all, Catherine adverse comments
the same, and, as it seems worse. Had the Melanchthon knew he would probably abstain's, bridge
"from the women because of concerns about his" ask. Furthermore, the Chancellor mentioned in
the paper all sorts of hateful and even hypocritical chatter "By others." "Many people do
think it's that it will finally be omitted hardly that it will change again "- that dares Brück three
weeks after her husband's death from a 47 year old woman to write! despite the fact that he is aware
of and expressly it should be avoided, that "you argue with the women whether they will change
or nit. " He also reports to the Elector: "They tell me it did each boy a Preceptor and Famulum
own "- after it turns out that only a single is Rutfeld, and a learned and faithful companion.
It will also be an exaggeration to he called "public" hinstellt what "the other servants exist"
- namely, as "with many people "(servants) was overloaded. Finally, the Registrar gives his
aversion to the Doctorin still several clear expression. He calls her request "blunt and short,"
and he expects repeated before the elector, that he gave 600 florins for the edification of
the good grace money Zulsdorf and, moreover, fl for 100 wood, and he speaks of the suspicion,
but also what Dr. Luther Should that: "The poor lame wolf is still there, they want it in reserve
and he with her remain, it would have the forty florins with bread to break, because as yet
been done, that The poor man has enjoyed little of the same, - I'll get, "he is a bit worrying
added. The farm village guard makes Brück as bad as possible and says it "conquer" does not
hundred guilders net yield, not even the interest on capital. He suspects the Doctorin continues,
"it was no use their children" and it was her to do just about to have some on the estate. And
his whole endeavor is only accessible to the children and the children all to have come good,
to exclude the widow from the possession and enjoyment. And furthermore Brück Council and intention,
"her impressive - another time that" large and verthunliche " - To break household. Finally
he goes out with a vengeance on the mother's children to withdraw. While Luther in his will to
his wife had the good confidence, "The mother of her own children would be the best guardian,"
Bruck said, it seems with a direct relationship to this thoughts of Luther: "After they can nit-Saxon
law guardian be, while they need at their widows themselves guardians, so it would be too carefully,
because (when) the woman would otherwise marry.

"At worst, he joined the well-widow close when he points out, the boys would go walking with
her and squires and the Studio deducted, they must therefore "be done to learned people, before
which they fear and dread had, in which they would also have a comfortable table "- as if the
children with her - the "Erzköchin" - would fail even in their physical care! The only established
cause to the distrust in Catherine's art education but could give only limited progress those of
low-gifted first-born in the study so far.

Almost more like bad conscience, it looks like a woman afraid of strong Catherine's will, when
the Chancellor wrote to the Elector: "Now I would willingly Gewest in subjection, with the women
themselves or Philippo of the things on E. Kurf. Gn. command to speak, so has been quite abgescheuet
this, that those days of Philippo I understood that their mind nit
Here would be the house to sell or leave, but were thinking to keep
it, ingleichen Zulsdorf and wax village, about the sale of the house
wanted to be nit to commemorate her.

"

Objectively, the Registrar makes the electors now following proposals:

1.
This was not the cause of the Domina SKGn. to commemorate denigration,
may the Elector previous prescribed $ 1,000 florins still 1000 - and
do add - but only for the children both interest together with £ 100,
but which on the girl (Margaret), whether district (500 fl) verpensionieren
until her marriage.

2. The elector should the mother and the children
be special guardians. This mutual Guardians should be the property
of widows and orphans of the divorce clean.

3. But the most unpleasant part
of the publicity was the rumour that the match was connected with the struggle for Miss Manners's
hand. I was pressed with invitations to go into the country to ride this or that horse. His
Grace the Duke of Grafton had a mount he would have me try at Wakefield Lodge, and was far
from pleasant over my refusal of his invitation. I was besieged by young noblemen like Lord
Derby and Lord Foley, until I was heartily sick of notoriety, and cursed the indiscretion of
the person who let out the news, and my own likewise. My Lord March, who did me the honour
to lay one hundred pounds upon my skill, insisted that I should make one of a party to the
famous amphitheatre near Lambeth. Mr. Astley, the showman, being informed of his Lordship's
intention, met us on Westminster Bridge dressed in his uniform as sergeant major of the Royal
Light Dragoons and mounted on a white charger. He escorted us to one of the large boxes under
the pent-house reserved for the gentry. And when the show was over and the place cleared, begged,
that I would ride his Indian Chief. I refused; but March pressed me, and Comyn declared he
had staked his reputation upon my horsemanship. Astley was a large man, about my build, and
I donned a pair of his leather breeches and boots, and put Indian Chief to his paces around
the ring. I found him no more restive, nor as much so, as Firefly. The gentlemen were good
enough to clap me roundly, and Astley vowed (no doubt because of the noble patrons present)
that he had never seen a better seat.

We all repaired afterwards for supper to Don Saltero's Coffee House and Museum in Chelsea.
And I remembered having heard my grandfather speak of the place, and tell how he had seen Sir
Richard Steele there, listening to the Don scraping away at the "Merry Christ Church Bells"
on his fiddle. The Don was since dead, but King James's coronation sword and King Henry VIII.'s
coat of mail still hung on the walls.

The remembrance of that fortnight has ever been an appalling one. Mr. Carvel had never attempted
to teach me the value of money. My grandfather, indeed, held but four things essential to the
conduct of life; namely, to fear God, love the King, pay your debts, and pursue your enemies.
There was no one in London to advise me, Comyn being but a wild lad like myself. But my Lord
Carlisle gave me a friendly warning:

"Have a care, Carvel," said he, kindly, "or you will run your grandfather through, and all
your relations beside. I little realized the danger of it when I first came up." (He was not
above two and twenty then.) "And now I have a wife, am more crippled than I care to be, thanks
to this devilish high play. Will you dine with Lady Carlisle in St. James's Place next Friday?"

My heart went out to this young nobleman. Handsome he was, as a picture. And he knew better
than most of your fine gentlemen how to put a check on his inclinations. As a friend he had
few equals, his purse being ever at the command of those he loved. And his privations on Fox's
account were already greater than many knew.

I had a call, too, from Mr. Dix. I found him in my parlour one morning, cringing and smiling,
and, as usual, half an hour away from his point.

"I warrant you, Mr. Carvel," says he, "there are few young gentlemen not born among the elect
that make the great friends you are blessed with."

"I have been fortunate, Mr. Dix," I replied dryly.

"Fortunate!" he cried; "good Lord, sir! I hear of you everywhere with Mr. Fox, and you have
been to Astley's with my Lord March. And I have a draft from you at Ampthill."

"Vastly well manoeuvred, Mr. Dix," I said, laughing at the guilty change in his pink complexion.
"And hence you are here."

He fidgeted, and seeing that I paid him no attention, but went on with my chocolate, he drew
a paper from his pocket and opened it.

"You have spent a prodigious sum, sir, for so short a time," said he, unsteadily. "'Tis very
well for you, Mr. Carvel, but I have to remember that you are heir only. I am advancing you
money without advices from his Worship, your grandfather. A most irregular proceeding, sir,
and one likely to lead me to trouble. I know not what your allowance may be."

"Nor I, Mr. Dix," I replied, unreasonably enough. "To speak truth, I have never had one. You
have my Lord Comyn's signature to protect you," I went on ill-naturedly, for I had not had
enough sleep. "And in case Mr. Carvel protests, which is unlikely and preposterous, you shall
have ten percentum on your money until I can pay you. That should be no poor investment."

He apologized. But he smoothed out the paper on his knee.

"It is only right to tell you, Mr. Carvel, that you have spent one thousand eight hundred and
thirty-seven odd pounds, in home money, which is worth more than your colonial. Your grandfather's
balance with me was something less than one thousand five hundred, as I made him a remittance
in December last. I have advanced the rest. And yesterday," he went on, resolutely for him,
"yesterday I got an order for five hundred more."

And he handed me the paper. I must own that the figures startled me. I laid it down with a
fine show of indifference.

"And so you wish me to stop drawing? Very good, Mr. Dix."

He must have seen some threat implied, though I meant none. The
finest and proudest but it will be of all that has experienced this old planet and will experience,
and a light will go out from him about the universe, when the day dawns of the great sacrifice,
the free, human and divine reconciliation. The day on which we forgive us all hatred and all
the grief, all the tears and all wounds, all death and all revenge. The day on which we extend
our hands to together to heal the wounds, the widows and to comfort orphans neuaufzubauen the
earth. On this day our fallen brothers are truly glorified, that day the earth is absolved, and
the kingdom of God is a step in the World approached.

Character

We want a big, strong, free country, but a different size,
strength and freedom, as we knew.

We know that institutions do not create feelings, but are created by them. The crust is rigid,
the core is malleable, who wants Visible umschaffen, who must bear the Center move.

Of attitudes and institutions that will come, I have often spoken. To you, friends, but I want to
talk about what is the effect number even lower.

What causes and change attitudes? Experience affects mind and transforms it. Different but is
determined by the same experience different spirit, and this difference
is Character.

We grossly overestimate the thoroughness convenient method of historicism, as each hard-working
Man, that It is oh, so many, they can acquire. The Pragmatic they failed almost always. We estimate
the economic method, because they have the courage of consistency has, but it is the spirit not
just because it makes their condition to the goal by it comes from the economy and business
leads.

We appreciate the pure observation of mind and character, because it requires empathy, instead
of learning, where we feel unsafe and afraid unconscious before the results.

Where is the character of someone describing a person or society, it is with the spiritual and mental
acquis start. And rightly so. Because of this property values skills
and decide on the spiritual being, on the value of intellectual substance.

Our Question but it is not about substance but about their movement and change, about creating
and to do action here does not decide the intellektuale, but the
voluntarische character.

For on what mental and moral level we are, we know. We want to know
whether and how to reach the next level, we must consider the moving
forces.

All form is the visible spirit. The chimney was clogged with papers ere (in a spelling to vie with
Dolly's) I had set down my devotion, my undying devotion, to her interests. I asked forgiveness
for my cruelty on that memorable morning I had last seen her. But even to allude to the bet
with Chartersea was beyond my powers; and as for renouncing it, though for her sake,--that
was not to be thought of. The high play I readily promised to avoid in the future, and I signed
myself,--well, it matters not after seventy years.

The same day, Tuesday, I received a letter from his Grace of Chartersea saying that he looked
to reach London that night, but very late. He begged that Mr. Fox and Lord Comyn and I would
sup with him at the Star and Garter at eleven, to fix matters for the trial on the morrow.
Mr. Fox could not go, but Comyn and I went to the inn, having first attended "The Tempest"
at Drury Lane with Lady Di and Mr. Beauclerk.

We found his Grace awaiting us in a private room, with Captain Lewis, of the 60th Foot, who
had figured as a second in the duel with young Atwater. The captain was a rake and a bully
and a toadeater, of course, with a loud and profane tongue, and he had had a bottle too many
in the duke's travelling-coach. There was likewise a Sir John Brooke, a country neighbour of
his Grace in Nottinghamshire. Sir John apparently had no business in such company. He was a
hearty, fox-hunting squire who had seen little of London; a three-bottle man who told a foul
story and went asleep immediately afterwards. Much to my disappointment, Mr. Manners had gone
to Arlington Street direct. I had longed for a chance to speak a little of my mind to him.

This meeting, which I shall not take the time to recount, was near to ending in an open breach
of negotiations. His Grace had lost money at York, and more to Lewis on the way to London.
He was in one of his vicious humours. He insisted that Hyde Park should be the place of the
contest. In vain did Comyn and I plead for some less public spot on account of the disagreeable
advertisement the matter had received. His Grace would be damned before he would yield; and
Lewis, adding a more forcible contingency, hinted that our side feared a public trial. Comyn
presently shut him up.

"Do you ride the horse after his Grace is thrown," says he, "and I agree to get on after and
he does not kill you. 'Sdeath! I am not of the army," adds my Lord, cuttingly; "I am a seaman,
and not supposed to know a stirrup from a snaffle."

"'Od's blood!" yelled the captain, "you question my horsemanship, my Lord? Do I understand
your Lordship to question my courage?"

"After I am thrown!" cries his Grace, very ugly, and fingering the jewels on his hilt.

Sir John was awakened by the noise, and turning heavily spilled the whole of a pint of port
on the duke's satin waist coat and breeches. Whereat Chartersea in a rage flung the bottle
at his head with a curse, which it seems was a habit with his Grace. But the servants coming
in, headed by my old friend the chamberlain, they quieted down. And it was presently agreed
that the horse was to be at noon in the King's Old Road, or Rotten Row (as it was then beginning
to be called), in Hyde Park.

I shall carry to the grave the memory of the next day. I was up betimes, and over to the White
Horse Cellar to see Pollux groomed, where I found a crowd about the opening into the stable
court. "The young American!" called some one, and to my astonishment and no small annoyance
I was greeted with a "Huzzay for you, sir!" "My groat's on your honour!"

This good-will was owing wholly to the duke's unpopularity with all classes. Inside, sporting
gentlemen in hunting-frocks of red and green, and velvet visored caps, were shouldering favoured
'ostlers from the different noblemen's stables; and there was a liberal sprinkling of the characters
who attended the cock mains in Drury Lane and at Newmarket. At the moment of my arrival the
head 'ostler was rubbing down the stallion's flank.

"Here's ten pounds to ride him, Saunders!" called one of the hunting-frocks.

"Umph!" sniffed the 'ostler; "ride 'im is it, yere honour? Two hunner beast eno', an' a Portugal
crown i' th' boot. Sooner take me chaunces o' Tyburn on 'Ounslow 'Eath. An' Miller waurna able
to sit 'im, 'tis no for th' likes o' me to try. Th' bloody devil took th' shirt off Teddy's
back this morn. I adwises th' young Buckskin t' order 's coffin." Just then he perceived me,
and touched his cap, something abashed. "With submission, sir, y'r honour'll take an old man's
adwise an' not go near 'im."

Pollux's appearance, indeed, was not calculated to reassure me. He looked ugly to exaggeration,
his ears laid back and his nostrils as big as crowns, and his teeth bared time and time. Now
and anon an impatient fling of his hoof would make the grooms start away from him. Since coming
to the inn he had been walked a couple of miles each day, with two men with loaded whips to
control him. I was being offered a deal of counsel, when big Mr. Astley came in from Lambeth,
and silenced them all.

"These grooms, Mr. Carvel," he said to me, as we took a bottle in private inside, "these grooms
are the very devil for superstition. And once a horse gets a bad name with them, good-by to
him. Miller knew how to ride, of course, but like many another of them, was too damned over-confident.
I warned him more than once for getting young horses into a fret, and I'm willing to lay a
ten-pound note that he angered Pollux. 'Od's life! He is a vicious beast. So was his father,
Culloden, before him. But here's luck to you, sir!" says Mr. Astley, tipping his glass; "having
seen you ride, egad! I have put all the money I can afford in your favour."

Before I left him he had given me several valuable hints as to the manner of managing that
kind of a horse: not to auger him with the spurs unless it became plain that he meant to kill
me; to try persuasion first and force afterwards; and secondly, he taught me a little trick
of twisting the bit which I have since found very useful.

Leaving the White Horse, I was followed into Piccadilly by the crowd, until I was forced to
take refuge in a hackney chaise. The noise of the affair had got around town, and I was heartily
sorry I had not taken the other and better method of trying conclusions with the duke, and
slapped his face. I found Jack Comyn in Dover Street, and presently Mr. Fox came for us with
his chestnuts in his chaise, Fitzpatrick with him. At Hyde Park Corner there was quite a jam
of coaches, chaises, and cabriolets and beribboned phaetons, which made way for us, but kept
us busy bowing as we passed among them. It seemed as if everybody of consequence that I had
met in London was gathered there. One face I missed, and rejoiced that she was absent, for
I had a degraded feeling like that of being the favourite in a cudgel-bout. And the thought
that her name was connected with all this made my face twitch. 

The first was Cyriak merchant, the son of a sister of Luther, he came to Studiosus Wittenberg
and 22 November 1529 enrolled. He accompanied his uncle in 1530 The Coburg and this sent him
to Augsburg in August that he was in the City Once the drive a look at the Reichstag, he had
returned to his studies Wittenberg; on the way home, he brought the gingerbread from Nuremberg for
his little cousin Hans Luther with [187].

Luther's brother and sister died early merchant and thus gradually came every five orphans the
same to her uncle to Wittenberg, in addition to that Cyriak nor his young siblings, the brothers Fabian
and Andrew, who in 1533 on 8 Early June with the first seven years Hans Luther enrolled at Wittenberg
as academic citizens were, and the sisters Lene and Else. It was not easy, five orphaned children,
father and mother, particularly to be, especially since they were not all well-advised and made
especially Lene concern, so that Luther once said, if she wanted to do well, he would lodge
a black servant (Bergmann) give rather than betray a pious and learned man with her. - Finally came
to the two nieces, a small great-niece, Anna Strauss, granddaughter of a sister of Luther [188].

With
Cyriak merchant was another sister's son, Hans Polner, a student
came into the house, Peter Weller is on the commanded.

But Mrs. Catherine was applied to watch, "that he obediently believe ", and otherwise they had
to take care of him. This Polner waited as Famulus to the doctor, studied theology and preached
once in the parish church, the doctor said they could understand much better than D. Pommer,
who else in this subject differed widely and importing other things in his sermon, or, as Jonas
put it, move some mercenary broach [189].

Another nephew of Luther, his favorite brother Jacob's son, Martin,
was later to be educated the family doctor passed and 1539 enrolled
at the university, as Florian Bora, son of Kitty's oldest brother.

Martin and Florian were with the children Luther taught. One nephew should ever come to Camerarius
to school and later Florian came to Hans to Torgau [190].

Finally, the Lutheran home were still entrusted to all kinds of students and prospective students,
who lived in the monastery and ate and were informed.

For their own and other children were now in the great wide use other Luther "All kinds of disciplinarian
and preceptors' needed: older students, young master, even people from a ripe old age, which
again went to the university to expand their knowledge or study the new Protestant theology. They
were in Luther's family household and table companions supported, even as Luther in his work,
and even (like Neuheller) Käthe in business and supervision of the servants.

It is apparent in and adjacent to each other in the home as a "schoolmaster" and Luther's assistants,
the Nuremberg Veit Dietrich (1529-34) and grade (1537-42), Cordatus (1528-31), the Jerome Freiberg
Peter and Kelter (1530), John Schlaginhaufen (1531-32), Jodocus Neuheller (Neobulus) (1537-38)
from Lauterburg, James Lauterbach (1536-39), slate (1539-41), a Francis and last Rutfeld (1546).
These preceptors even had often return to their own pupils, with which Abbey lived and ate
in the black, or there were only taught. Classes often began at an early age: the young Hans
Luther had been able to four years "Learn" to speak well mainly in Latin - as is happening
today with the French.

In addition to the masters had yet Famuli Luther, not only his life-long servant Wolf, but
others, like the "religious society" which "many years faithfully, diligently and ministered
has done and suffered humiliating and old "and 1532 moved away. Served in the Famulus Table
poured, anxious Garden stores, made outputs, also wrote for Mrs.
Katherine Letters [191].

Even a teacher has been appointed to the Black Monastery in Wittenberg, namely in 1527 Luther was
also a nun's wife Kate, the former nun and Flüchtlingin of Nimbschen, the "respectable, virtuous
Lady Else von Kanitz" invited to Wittenberg for a time to come. "For I thought to need your to
teach young maiden, and through you such Anzufahen other work for example. With me you shall
be home and to dinner, that you no Driving more concern should have. So I ask nu, me these things
that you do not want to refuse. "The Kanitz was not.

But now appears a Miss Margaret of Mochau, probably the sister of Karlstadt's wife, the monastery
is home and her job have represented [192].

Of course, it was absent from the big budget and to other servants and not as it was, as always
good and bad, rewarding and thankless, faithful and unfaithful servants. All they were "family"
expected and took part in the prayer house. And the absent Householder did not fail in his letters
to send their regards the "entire servants'. But he It also warned that they would give no scandal
in the house. He often joked about in his letters Inertia and comfort of his servants: as
when he ordered from Nuremberg, hand tools, which is of itself, if
Wolf is asleep or careless, or a chandelier, the from dressing himself,
so he does not break or be damaged by angry or sleepy maid [193].

Of course, guests of all kinds in the perverted black monastery or lived there in a shorter or a longer
stay, often for months, even years: displaced or jobless preacher
volatile stranger, escaped monks and nuns, visiting fellow and hard,
"poor Gesindlein" and royal ladies.

Sun housed the Luther House in 1525 several aristocratic sisters, in 1528 a few months even the
Duchess Ursula of Munsterberg, George Duke's own base, the faithful with two Nuns of the Convent
of Freiberg had fled, and 1529 at Pentecost again three Nobles of the same Convention. We
also used all sorts of monks, even from France, the Luther House in Wittenberg, as the universal refuge
of all religiously oppressed. So Duke George has understandably angry when accused with false allegations,
Luther: "You have to set up an Asylum Wittenberg that all monks and nuns, so us our monasteries
robbing and stealing with business, which, when you refuge and stay,
as if Wittenberg, to speak politely, a Ganerbenhaus all apostates
of the country "[194].

Yes, the Wittenberg friends of the house, and Dr. A. Bugenhagen Schurf
women waited in the black cloister her from her illness or childbirth
[195].

But well as the royal guests were the hospitable house of Luther's wife.

The Princess Elizabeth of Brandenburg had, particularly through the influence of their evangelical
minded physician Ratzeberger, facing the Reformation, while her husband Old Believers Joachim I
saw a strict policy that the Lutheran poison not come over on the Saxon border. Since he had
learned of his 14-year daughter Elizabeth, to his horror that his his own wife in the Berlin palace
secretly taken the sacrament in both kinds have. He imprisoned the Princess, the rumor went,
he would have to wall. Since escaped them with the help of her royal brother Christiern, the
then-fugitive in Germany wandering, along with Dr. Ratzeberger (March
1528) and fled to her uncle John elector to Saxony.

She received her residence at Schloss Lichtenberg held, but often in Wittenberg and much wrong in
the monastery home with Luther and wife Kate, she was even one of the children Goodman [196].

The
Prince George of Anhalt was in the black Monastery take residence
at Luther handling and mind to enjoy right.

But his vice-chancellor had to advise against it because the house is full.

So "the Lord's house was Dr. Luther students from a diverse group of pupils, Girls, widows and old
lives like children. So much trouble there was in it, "[197].

As it is conceived that when the young Hans should begin to get serious, he is the greater done for leisure
out of the house was - perhaps to Torgau.

At New Year's 1537, the eleven-year Son somewhere on the school, where he carried his "studies"
and the father of Latin letters Pleasure. This allows him, especially at the request of Aunt Lena,
next to the Carnival Holiday to come home to her mother and aunt, sisters and brothers [198].

For
all house and table companions in the convent were now the daily visits and guests of acquaintances,
friends, relatives, colleague and fellow citizens: so far away from the clergy Amsdorf and Spalatin,
home and Link, the courtiers and knights Taubenheim and solvers, brother Jacob or brother Rühel of
Mansfeld, Kitty's brother Hans, delegates from all countries, Statesmen and church officials
from England and France, Scandinavia and Bohemia, Hungary and Venice, city councils and citizens
of all Saxon and German cities, wandering MA and moving students. From Wittenberg even perverse
as love and frequent guests, mostly Master Philip (Melanchthon) and wife, the gardens of two
houses were not far from each other and - as you said today at least - a Thürlein mediated
between the two the traffic of the two families. Welcome home friends were also the pastor Jonas
and his Wife, also other Gevattersleute, the superintendent Bugenhagen, M. Cruce, M. Rorer,
Hans Lufft of printing, the master Lucas Cranach and his wife and the old master Claus Hauer picture
or "image Hain" as Sophiele Jonas used to call him a brave Artist,
who was also sometimes to dinner, which he later bought a garden Luther.

With him, also "eaten too many Easter eggs" already, like Luther remembered the good old days
[199].

Because there was upstairs in the family room to the large oak table
in the yard or down under pear or even probably the shade in front
of the Elster gate outside in the murmuring Luthersbrunnen Society
and held meal and wife Kate had to make the landlady, her admirable
Hausbräu in position and also contribute to the costs of maintaining
their bit.

8. Chapter

Catherine's budget and economy [200].

For so many houses and cooperative table we had to raise a lot of apartments and to equip it,
it had food and wine in a large scale was to be set, it was necessary
to obtain stable and garden, it was necessary to market and purchasing,
accounting and to understand asset management, and finally to the
government of such a large household, with its many and various elements,
table-goers and tutors, children and servants It was a wise caution,
but also a tight reign talent unfold.

All now fell prey to the housewife. For it would have been impossible that in addition to the Luther
tremendous work of his profession as a preacher, pastor, professor, counselor for individual
Persons such as entire cities and countries, as a reformer, not only of Germany but of half the Christianity
was able to take care of the household, including a so extensive that alone an entire manpower
required [201]. But then there was the doctor's opinion, that prevail in the house and farm
wife and was to rule: "The woman had the regiment in the house, the man ohnbeschadet law and justice,
for it is created. For the True, the domestic matters regarding the house Regiment, as the women
are smarter and more eloquent than we are. "" I am the household very clumsy and negligent. I
can directed into the non-households. I am overwhelmed by my great household. "Before such a
thing He had been afraid even as a bachelor. In 1523 he said: "You take a woman, then the first
shock: as you will now feed you, your wife and child? And that would last your lifetime; the first child to
think the parents out to build a home to purchase assets and posterity to provide "[202]. On
the other hand, it was his nature and willing wife Katherine that she like this regiment and
led her husband wanted to keep all the things it in its could prevent and interfere with effectiveness.
And Luther was the good part. "My wife can persuade me, as often as they like because it has the
entire estate was alone in her hand, and I confess you also like
the whole house economy "[203].

So now Katherine was originally intended for the house and her, and
the elector and the city of Wittenberg, the friends of the house and
the parents of the boarders donated to various builders and Devices.

The monastery was built in 1502 by black Staupitz with the support of the electors, but only
been completed to a third. The church had just begun building the economy hardly available. Actually
it was only the so-called sleeping house (dormitory), the former living quarters of the Monks finished,
ranging for 40 people. But the cells - usually on the third floor - were numerous, however small,
and therefore probably had some wall broken through, and some also raised be. On the garden
side was a large hall (now the auditorium) and a smaller one, which both were used by Luther to lectures
and home devotions. had a room next to it or a door was in Luther's
study.

In the upper floor were lowered into the guest rooms used for many household.

The ground floor was set up to Käthe economies and to facilitate traffic lead to the upper floor,
a staircase in the room next to the bedroom can.

In 1539 to 40 enjoyed Käthe her husband with a thoughtful gift from Pirna had them - by the
parish priest Lauterbach - a beautifully carved door in white Sandstone occur, a pointed arch with
beautiful rods, on the one hand, Luther's portrait, on the other, his coat of arms, the white
rose with red heart and black cross in it, the golden ring of eternity
comprises, and the Latin inscription: "In quietness and hope my strength
lies.

"On both sides of the door were two seats mounted to rest on Closing time [204].

The monastery was closed to the street with a fence and later arrived at the gate two booths, probably
for the security of the property in the turbulent and dangerous time
of the Fortification, where the city walls torn down at the Elster
gate, and opened all the city scum was [205].

On the west side of the court have now been erected all sorts of farm buildings.

A brewing facility was already available in the monastery, for the Elector had this Brau justice
for 12 "Gebräude" award, which went to the new owner and was of Käthe even exercised. This
was a great advantage for the strong financial, because the beer was in Wittenberg expensive striking:
the can cost three cents. But the production of the brewery and the devices cost 150 florins
a bath room with bath and stand they built and now D. Lauterbach had to get her to the building
material. Also, all the cattle pens was built it and kept horses, cows and pigs in particular,
for labor, milk and meat for House needs to have: As early as 1527, one had a stable full of pigs,
more than five pieces; 1542 there were ten and three piglets, so that it had its own swineherd are
kept further Lara had several horses, five cows, nine calves and a goat with two kids. A chicken
provided the necessary eggs. Finally, a few cellars were repaired or newly created, then the
wine cellar, the new cellar and a large basement.

During the visit of the latter was the couple's life almost since the vault collapsed behind them
as if they it visited and had just stepped out [206].

In the course of time in the half-finished home were even many repairs needed and also all sorts
of new buildings. This gave John Crafft M. Plato and their little room, the son Hans, as he
grew up, cousin Lena had her little room with chamber and chimney - each prepare cost 5 fl. The upper
room and board came to be at 100 fl and the lower to 40 fl addition to a large cellar, which
(with the "damage" in the collapse) to 130 fl had come, was still
the new cellar for 50 fl built and set up a wine cellar for 10 fl.
At last, even built a "new house", which cost 400 florins.

The staircase had twice produced are often patched and the roof [207].

To this end, it took many a thousand tiles (tiles) and bricks, not even a few tons lime and wagon,
especially in the 1535-39 year of construction: 280 cars and 12,500 bricks and lime 1300 roof tiles
and again by both species together 2600th Of course, the thousand "roof tiles" only 40 pence, bricks
cost 57 pence and the car only 4-5 lime dime. This provided the city, out of his own distillery.
Luther was paid for his services (free of charge Preaching and pastoral
care, etc.) and by assignment of land to his monastery.

In 1542, Luther was installed in 1155 alone fl [208].

Later they lived in the house of Luther serious trouble with the new fortifications. The Ordnance
Frederick of the Green was the Luther's obviously not green. He buried not only - With Luther's
approval - the lower chamber, but without the need and support the middle, corrupt the brewery
gate, threatened the garden wall and the rear Erdmauer new house. And as the Lord, that's made
the servants, the servants dike smashed windows and drove else all sorts of mischief. Luther
even feared for his beloved study, that is he so many serious hours studying and challenges experienced,
"he gestürmet from the Pope" and sent his wonderful literary works
and epistles in the world.

And she sent the doctor a even angry letter to the Ordnance send, probably his impression not
missed [209].

In the courtyard, the former hospital cemetery, the foundations of the church were built, but
only the Brought the same Earth. In the midst of these foundations was an old chapel built
of wood and covered with clay, which was very dilapidated, was based on all sides. It was at 30
Feet long and 20 wide, a little old rusty Vorkirchlein, to 20 people had hardly could stand
with difficulty. On the wall around noon, was a pulpit of old boards, the rough, made a Predigtstühlchen,
about 1-1/2 feet high from the earth, whereupon Luther had once preached.

In short, it had everywhere the reputation as the painter the stable paint born in Bethlehem,
Christ was in them. "Only in 1542 it was the attachment victim, Luther grumbled worse about it
than Jonah on the withered pumpkin tree "[210].

The court was closed with a wooden shed to the road and how the cemetery
planted with trees.

In it were chickens, geese, ducks, pigeons, birds nesting in the bushes Sparrows flew and were
shooed from a little dog [211].

Otherwise, he served as a playground for the children to the playground and skittles.

The facilities of the big budget had to be purchased and paid even more.

From the monastery still some things were there, tin containers and kitchen and garden tools as bowls,
skewers, paddles, though quite used up and worn, not 20 fl value. It soon had to be supplemented
and replaced. So is the worm-eaten box Dr. Twins in Torgau. This offered another, Ms Kate is
surprised about the high price he will be around 4 Florin, asked whether he was "clean" it
with a "Sedel (box office) "Basket for linen device is it not iron by beating the linen makes
eisenmalich"; or they wanted to be a make in Wittenberg. A "treasure box" the couple had already,
only it was "probably a thousand times too much for their treasure,
in 1532 they had only one Cup.

But the shrine gradually filled with silver cups, rings, medals and other jewels. Also they had
inherited a delicious cup almost to the Augsburger Hans Honold citizens donated the great doctor.
From Nuremberg gave the Protestant abbot Friedrich an ingenious clock that admired the Lutheran
couple due; 1529 was a second (from left) and 1542 to a third. 1536 sent the elders of the Moravian
Brothers a dozen Bohemian diameter [212].

A constant issue made the purchases for canvas, beds, springs, lights in the Sleeping chambers, and for tin
cans, bowls, plates, basins, pots, pans in the kitchen; for blades, grave logs, forks, "Schupen"
wells Radbarn (wheelbarrows) in the garden; for drums, "Apply" (lower buckets), buckets in the
basement and laundry room, for dishes and cars the wagon [213].

The
convent building was previously though that in actual possession of
Luther, but a formal prescription He had not only by oral agreement,
the building with his justice to him Electors from the left. That
it was Luther, the last monk of the Augustinian monastery in Wittenberg,
as the latest heir provided. But now operated him so well weighted
Elector John before his death of Luther's family, subject to the possession
of the property of first refusal for the state and city in a formal
prescription.

"Nay, you may read for yourself," said she. And, flinging the paper in my lap, left the room.

They had not said much more, Heaven be praised. But I was angry and mortified as I had never
been before, realizing for the first time what a botch I had made of my stay in London. In
great dejection, I was picking up my hat to leave the house, when Mrs. Manners came in upon
me, and insisted that I should stay for dinner. She was very white, and seemed troubled and
preoccupied, and said that Mr. Manners had come back from York with a cold on his chest, but
would insist upon joining the party to Vauxhall on Monday. I asked her when she was going to
the baths, and suggested that the change would do her good. Indeed, she looked badly.

"We are not going, Richard," she replied; "Dorothy will not hear of it. In spite of the doctor
she says she is not ill, and must attend at Vauxhall, too. You are asked?"

I said that Mr. Storer had included me. I am sure, from the way she looked at me, that she
did not heed my answer. She appeared to hesitate on the verge of a speech, and glanced once
or twice at the doors.

"Richard, I suppose you are old enough to take care of yourself, tho' you seem still a child
to me. I pray you will be careful, my boy," she said, with something of the affection she had
always borne me, "for your grandfather's sake, I pray you will run into no more danger. I--we
are your old friends, and the only ones here to advise you."

She stopped, seemingly, to weigh the wisdom of what was to come next, while I leaned forward
with an eagerness I could not hide. Was she to speak of the Duke of Chartersea? Alas, I was
not to know. For at that moment Dorothy came back to inquire why I was not gone to the cudgelling
at the Three Hats. I said I had been invited to stay to dinner.

"Why, I have writ a note asking Comyn," said she. "Do you think the house will hold you both?"

His Lordship came in as we were sitting down, bursting with some news, and he could hardly
wait to congratulate Dolly on her recovery before he delivered it.

"Why, Richard," says the dog, "what do you think some wag has done now? They believe at Brooks's
'twas that jackanapes of a parson, Dr. Warner, who was there yesterday with March." He drew
a clipping from his pocket. "Listen, Miss Dolly:

       "On Wednesday did a carter see
        His Grace, the Duke of Ch-rt--s-a,
        As plump and helpless as a bag,
        A-straddle of a big-boned nag.
        "Lord, Sam!" the carter loudly yelled,
        On by this wondrous sight impelled,
        "We'll run and watch this noble gander
        Master a steed, like Alexander."
        But, when the carter reached the Row,
        His Grace had left it, long ago.
        Bucephalus had leaped the green,
        The duke was in the Serpentine.
        The fervent wish of all good men
        That he may ne'er come out again!'"

Comyn's impudence took my breath, tho' the experiment interested me not a little. My lady was
pleased to laugh at the doggerel, and even Mrs. Manners. Its effect upon Mr. Marmaduke was
not so spontaneous. His smile was half-hearted. Indeed, the little gentleman seemed to have
lost his spirits, and said so little (for him), that I was encouraged to corner him that very
evening and force him to a confession. But I might have known he was not to be caught. It appeared
almost as if he guessed my purpose, for as soon as ever the claret was come on, he excused
himself, saying he was promised to Lady Harrington, who wanted one.

Comyn and I departed early on account of Dorothy. She had denied a dozen who had left cards
upon her.

"Egad, Richard," said my Lord, when we had got to my lodgings, "I made him change colour, did
I not? Do you know how the little fool looks to me? 'Od's life, he looks hunted, and cursed
near brought to earth. We must fetch this thing to a point, Richard. And I am wondering what
Chartersea's next move will be," he added thoughtfully.

CHAPTER XXXIX

HOLLAND HOUSE

On the morrow, as I was setting out to dine at Brooks's, I received the following on a torn
slip of paper: "Dear Richard, we shall have a good show to-day you may care to see." It was
signed "Fox," and dated at St. Stephen's. I lost no time in riding to Westminster, where I
found a flock of excited people in Parliament Street and in the Palace Yard. And on climbing
the wide stone steps outside and a narrower flight within I was admitted directly into the
august presence of the representatives of the English people. They were in a most prodigious
and unseemly state of uproar.

What a place is old St. Stephen's Chapel, over St. Mary's in the Vaults, for the great Commons
of England to gather! It is scarce larger or more imposing than our own assembly room in the
Stadt House in Annapolis. St. Stephen's measures but ten yards by thirty, with a narrow gallery
running along each side for visitors. In one of these, by the rail, I sat down suffocated,
bewildered, and deafened. And my first impression out of the confusion was of the bewigged
speaker enthroned under the royal arms, sore put to restore order. On the table in front of
him lay the great mace of the Restoration. Three chandeliers threw down their light upon the
mob of honourable members, and I wondered what had put them into this state of uproar.

Presently, with the help of a kind stranger on my right, who was occasionally making shorthand
notes, I got a few bearings. That was the Treasury Bench, where Lord North sat (he was wide
awake, now). And there was the Government side. He pointed out Barrington and Weymouth and
Jerry Dyson and Sandwich, and Rigby in the court suit of purple velvet with the sword thrust
through the pocket. I took them all in, as some of the worst enemies my country had in Britain.
Then my informant seemed to hesitate, and made bold to ask my persuasion. When I told him I
was a Whig, and an American, he begged the favour of my hand.

"There, sir," he cried excitedly, "that stout young gentleman with the black face and eyebrows,
and the blacker heart, I may say,--the one dressed in the fantastical costume called by a French
name,--is Mr. Charles Fox. He has been sent by the devil himself, I believe, to ruin this country.
'Ods, sir, that devil Lord Holland begot him. He is but one and twenty, but his detestable
arts have saved North's neck from Burke and Wedderburn on two occasions this year."

"And what has happened to-day?" I asked, smiling.

The stranger smiled, too.

"Why, sir," he answered, raising his voice above the noise; "if you have been in London any
length of time, you will have read the account, with comment, of the Duke of Grafton's speech
in the Lords, signed Domitian. Their Lordships well know it should have been over a greater
signature. This afternoon his Grace of Manchester was talking in the Upper House about the
Spanish troubles, when Lord Gower arose and desired that the place might be cleared of strangers,
lest some Castilian spy might lurk under the gallery. That was directed against us of the press,
sir, and their Lordships knew it. 'Ad's heart, sir, there was a riot, the house servants tumbling
everybody out, and Mr. Burke and Mr. Dunning in the boot, who were gone there on the business
of this house to present a bill. Those gentlemen are but just back, calling upon the commons
to revenge them and vindicate their honour. And my Lord North looks troubled, as you will mark,
for the matter is like to go hard against his Majesty's friends. But hush, Mr. Burke is to speak."

The horse fell quiet to listen, and my friend began to ply his shorthand industriously. I leaned
forward with a sharp curiosity to see this great friend of America. He was dressed in a well-worn
suit of brown, and I recall a decided Irish face, and a more decided Irish accent, which presently
I forgot under the spell of his eloquence. I have heard it said he had many defects of delivery.
He had none that day, or else I was too little experienced to note them. Afire with indignation,
he told how the deputy black rod had hustled him like a vagabond or a thief, and he called
the House of Lords a bear garden. He was followed by Dunning, in a still more inflammatory
mood, until it seemed as if all the King's friends in the Lower House must desert their confederates
in the Upper. No less important a retainer than Mr. Onslow moved a policy of retaliation, and
those that were left began to act like the Egyptians when they felt the Red Sea under them.
They nodded and whispered in their consternation.

It was then that Mr. Fox got calmly up before the pack of frightened mercenaries and argued
(God save the mark!) for moderation. He had the ear of the house in a second, and he spoke
with all the confidence--this youngster who had just reached his majority--he had used with
me before his intimates. I gaped with astonishment and admiration. The Lords, said he, had
plainly meant no insult to this honourable house, nor yet to the honourable members. They had
aimed at the common enemies of man, the printers. And for this their heat was more than pardonable.
My friend at my side stopped his writing to swear under his breath. 

One may ask for war, however you want, forget those August days remain for those who saw rise
behind the jubilation choir shadow. Soon it was also many other of the wrong sound audible,
in the splendid enthusiasm of the boys, in the fraternal The delight of the elderly victims
had died at first. It was soon felt, there were also those hoping the big event of their own
advantages, except for the old, except for a new Career, be it for business, be it for special
political aspirations, it was also intended interested and enthusiastic. During occurred outside the first
and most glorious deeds, during the first commitment of the hottest country, especially the women,
their hearts warmed, stirred the first home warriors, war profiteers and Shirley. While the people
at the front disciplined, was at home, organized the spirit ebbed. It has never had such a
decrease of intellectual level in Europe where such a short time. The thinking of the educated merged
with which the masses excited, intolerant of suggestion, which frowned upon any examination
and reflection, the most absurd, Widersinnigste, hateful was blown off, believed, judged, predicted
and everyone followed, which did not coincide. Yes, a trend occurred that can not may otherwise be designated
as the rancor of unreason, and which, implicitly, the following seemed to express: "For too
long we have the extravagant things that are intellectually and artistically mentioned that none
of us knew, and disliked us, must be considered against us. It now has an end. What are their spiritual
here? Now there is the arm, and you will Show that it conquers the world. Hides you, now we want
to see, read and hear, what we mean, and what makes us happy. "And really, until penetrated the
windows of the shops good traditional taste, and Tonzwerg bowl humor in the entertainment side
dishes the leaves they read stories of the faithful and wise Elschen Spitz, and Parliament voted
one to one speaker, the five hundredth performance of an operetta than pathetic return of innocence
and harmlessness praised.

In this atmosphere, began the mass of foreign judgments and its own
national character.

A suffering and bitter people, it is not to blame if it intrigues of hostile and Horrors, hear
the millions of armies can not fail, that it is in passionate Generalization of the indignant
hatred surrenders, and this hatred raging in the country with even less restraint as in the field,
where chivalrous bravery recognition of hostile acts against him. In such Times should be educated to
keep in mind three things when under the general verdict sought.

First.

A nation is a collective spirit, viewed from the outside, different effect than the Sum of
individual spirits. As long as the people of almost anarchic, live prey species must every
nation, the well-managed and purposefully serve his interests, predatory outward Appear without
need that his limbs to be predators. It seems good-naturedly to the outside, friendly, grateful,
sensible, that is no proof of such properties of its Members, but is evidence of political
weakness and poor governance. The anarchic State should and will stop, and then the nations
as collective entities the right and have a duty to appear outwardly similar to human and moral.
As long as the anarchic State, the armed hostility maintains, will therefore, one should not brag if one
does not have the will, the strength or success on the brutality, and should not condemn the one
who takes the consequences.


He did not answer that, but called for a reckoning; and taking my arm again, we walked out
past the sleeping houses.

"Have you ever thought much of the men we have in the colonies?" I asked.

"No," he replied; "Chatham stands for 'em, and I hate Chatham on my father's account. That
is reason enough for me."

"You should come back to America with me," I said. "And when you had rested awhile at Carvel
Hall, I would ride with you through the length of the provinces from Massachusetts to North
Carolina. You will see little besides hard-working, self-respecting Englishmen, loyal to a
king who deserves loyalty as little as Louis of France. But with their eyes open, and despite
the course he has taken. They are men whose measure of resolution is not guessed at."

He was silent again until we had got into Piccadilly and opposite his lodgings.

"Are they all like you?" he demanded.

"Who?" said I. For I had forgotten my words.

"The Americans."

"The greater part feel as I do."

"I suppose you are for bed," he remarked abruptly.

"The night is not yet begun," I answered, repeating his favourite words, and pointing at the
glint of the sun on the windows.

"What do you say to a drive behind those chestnuts of mine, for a breath of air? I have just
got my new cabriolet Selwyn ordered in Paris."

Soon we were rattling over the stones in Piccadilly, wrapped in greatcoats, for the morning
wind was cold. We saw the Earl of March and Ruglen getting out of a chair before his house,
opposite the Green Park, and he stopped swearing at the chairmen to wave at us.

"Hello, March!" Mr. Fox said affably, "you're drunk."

His Lordship smiled, bowed graciously if unsteadily to me, and did not appear to resent the
pleasantry. Then he sighed.

"What a pair of cubs it is," said he; "I wish to God I was young again. "Give me money," Luther's charity debt insidiatrix
KETHA "more advisable," "Strange Blessings" "In Praise of the virtuous woman"

10. Domestic sorrows and joys.

Severe attack of illness budget Luther (1527) The Pest marriage and
death and refugees Weddings visitations letters from Coburg's grandparents
visits and trips A cardinal Wittenberg table companion, assistant,
Kitty Kitty's brothers children growing raisin day laborers

11.

Weddings and diseases, plague and death. We passed the stream of market wagons lumbering along, pulled by
sturdy, patient farm-horses, driven by smocked countrymen, who touched their caps to the fine
gentlemen of the court end of town; who shook their heads and exchanged deep tones over the
whims of quality, unaccountable as the weather. But one big-chested fellow arrested his salute,
a scowl came over his face, and he shouted back to the wagoner whose horses were munching his hay:

"Hi, Jeems, keep down yere hands. Mr. Fox is noo friend of we."

This brought a hard smile on Mr. Fox's face.

"I believe, Richard," he said, "I have become more detested than any man in Parliament."

"And justly," I replied; "for you have fought all that is good in you."

"I was mobbed once, in Parliament Street. I thought they would kill me. Have you ever been
mobbed, Richard?" he asked indifferently.

"Never, I thank Heaven," I answered fervently.

"I think I would rather be mobbed than indulge in any amusement I know of," he continued. "Than
confound Wedderburn, or drive a measure against Burke,--which is no bad sport, my word on't.
I would rather be mobbed than have my horse win at Newmarket. There is a keen pleasure you
wot not of, my lad, in listening to Billingsgate and Spitalfields howl maledictions upon you.
And no sensation I know of is equal to that of the moment when the mud and sticks and oranges
are coming through the windows of your coach, when the dirty weavers are clutching at your
ruffles and shaking their filthy fists under your nose."

"It is, at any rate, strictly an aristocratic pleasure," I assented, laughing.

So we came to Holland House. Its wide fields of sprouting corn, its woods and pastures and
orchards in blossom, were smiling that morning, as though Leviathan, the town, were not rolling
onward to swallow them. Lord Holland had bought the place from the Warwicks, with all its associations
and memories. The capped towers and quaint facades and projecting windows were plain to be
seen from where we halted in the shaded park, and to the south was that Kensington Road we
had left, over which all the glory and royalty of England at one time or another had rolled.
Under these majestic oaks and cedars Cromwell and Ireton had stood while the beaten Royalists
lashed their horses on to Brentford. Nor did I forget that the renowned Addison had lived here
after his unhappy marriage with Lady Warwick, and had often ridden hence to Button's Coffee
House in town, where my grandfather had had his dinner with Dean Swift.

We sat gazing at the building, which was bathed in the early sun, at the deer and sheep grazing
in the park, at the changing colours of the young leaves as the breeze swayed them. The market
wagons had almost ceased now, and there was little to break the stillness.

"You love the place?" I said.

He started, as though I had awakened him out of a sleep. And he was no longer the Fox of the
clubs, the cynical, the reckless. He was no longer the best-dressed man in St. James's Street,
or the aggressive youngster of St. Stephen's.

"Love it!" he cried. "Ay, Richard, and few guess how well. You will not laugh when I tell you
that my happiest days have been passed here, when I was but a chit, in the long room where
Addison used to walk up and down composing his Spectators: or trotting after my father through
these woods and gardens. A kinder parent does not breathe than he. Well I remember how he tossed
me in his arms under that tree when I had thrashed another lad for speaking ill of him. He
called me his knight. In all my life he has never broken faith with me. When they were blasting
down a wall where those palings now stand, he promised me I should see it done, and had it
rebuilt and blown down again because I had missed the sight. All he ever exacted of me was
that I should treat him as an elder brother. He had his own notion of the world I was going
into, and prepared me accordingly. Her memory was amazing, and it gave her
pleasure to share from the wealth of their memories. She could probably measure Hessian with the
famous story teller of the brothers Grimm. On winter evenings, when spinning sat by the stove,
pulled the flax from the distaff and spindle was rotated dance - because at that time spinning
you look at the screen even themselves, sent the yarn to the weaver, the weaving on the bleaching
- Then the girl began to tell and did so until they do not, but we children exhausted were. Then we
heard the stem probably still half asleep in the buzzing in and were happy forward to the next
evening. The red Hanne did not speak quite as Mitterwurzer read. Her story had more epic river
worked its dialogue and dramatic moments not so strongly. Mitterwurzer method does have its
advantages, especially the modern Fairy tales over. It's like a diamond jumps from its socket and
now to Bodies that were once covered with twinkling begins. The real folk tales, such as the
"One Man's Humble Quest to learn fear," defends himself maybe a little of this Treatment,
because the story is without subjective ingredient. A more cheerful tone goes through This delightful
tale that is equal struck in the beginning. "They always say: it creeps me, it makes me shudder!
I shudder not. This promises to be an art of which I want none understand that. "Behind the Laughter
seems, however, to salvage a proud nationalism, can say with Bismarck: "We are afraid of nobody,"
Yes, behind these joking! Fairy tale, we see the Germans as they enter the fighting in world
history, not fighting only out of necessity, but also for the pleasure of fighting, so they
foreign supporters in Byzantium and Rome And things are still colorful in their doublets, loyal
and quick-witted, in the courts the Vatican's stand.

The German legend, who herself composed - the folk tales - are very
old be national property.

The characters that appear in it to be pagan as run-down Considered gods, who were hiding
from persecution in the Christian fairy tale costume. There is probably what is in the German
fairy tale, which conform to this view, for example, our loveable Sleeping Beauty. Odin, who
rides through the rays gluten to the sleeping awakening sun, Siegfried, who comes through the flickering
flames to free Brynhild, the young prince who breaks through the hedges to get Sleeping Beauty,
they are probably one and the same figure, first as a God, then as a hero, most recently as
Prince Charming. Thus, Now every German man who acquires a wife, as God, as a hero than Prince
Charming feel. But few of the German fairy tale must be so convenient as Sleeping Beauty, and
even the national origins of the German fairy tale is questionable, if the same story, as the
German, distributed under various climates and nationalities found. One can say that proves nothing
against the national origins of the German fairy tale. At the foot of the Himalayas on a daisy flowers
in a Tale of the Vienna Woods another Daisies, which both know about each other. Or, more soberly:
similar emergencies generate similar ideas and inventions, similar moods bring similar seals forth.
But the similarity is accumulated to the extent that one had to think of borrowing, and a German
scientist (Theodor Benfey) made the remarkable discovery that most Part of our Western fairy tales
and short stories in India is invented, where they are on various detours by Mongols, Jews and
Islamists have been zugemittelt. So we live also on this side of the intellectual inventions
of the Orient. And the last, that seals itself is dense, in science, an almost-lost fairy tale.
Anywhere where something significant is done, be it in poetry, in science, in technology, everywhere
lies behind a single head, which you certainly do not always see. Even the Language, in its
origin, the darkest area, is certainly inspired by individual handles People have been brought forward,
with the women in whose mouth the speech as easy and smooth is by no means be ruled out. As
the controversy over the author of the German folk epics was in vogue, Ludwig Uhland has written
in his grace so profound words: "The whole Mass (of people) is still, like a train of migrant
birds in the process of poetic beat, and the single fly alternately at the top. "

Friedrich Mitterwurzer, the artist has always inspiring us with his tales lectures this pleasant
byways brought, of which we welcome him returning once again grateful.

(On December 25, 1895)

Mirror Images

  

It was on a bright summer morning, as a crowd pulling over fellow
citizens who just the terms were to go to the village in order to
cultivate their vineyards, at one of the Street lying land home heard
an unusual noise, in which she uttered the sharp Call of a male voice
distinction, where a clinking sound, like from flying apart Glass
shards caused, succeeded.

They stood silent for a time affected by it against the windows of the otherwise quiet house
looked up, and went on shaking his head, as the noise had subsided. In the house, which came
back to a vast orchard, Hanns lived scourge Reiter, a well-off young scholar who, from a low propensity to
Knowledge of things inspired by science to their own satisfaction used. Before barely a half years
he had buried his wife, and lived with him his two children and a sister in law, which provided
him with the budget. On that summer morning it was in this small family to an unusual performances
come. They participated in the Book Room, the same time served as a dining room, a breakfast. As
a scourge rider with flattering Words to his younger daughter turned and looked up from his steaming
cup, remarked it on the wall piers to a large Venetian mirror, which his sister- Birthdays
has brought to its present, and for what he be in this moment own image with sharp clarity
against waved. As soon as he had seen the reflection, as a fierce pain contorted his features,
he jumped up quickly, and by the kind his sister-intentioned idea with violent words, cursing,
he went to the mirror and hit him with a clenched fist in two. The sharp blow to the fragile fabric
Zorn had his spirits somewhat derived, although it mirrored the hundredfold his image in the herabklirrenden
broken glass as a personal contempt felt. The two children had taken refuge in a corner and could,
by participating in the hands conceived, wept openly. The sister-in-first paralyzed by fear,
brought now a sink with water brought about, in which riders scourge of many small put his wounds
bleeding hand. He looked with some pleasure the blood drip out of the hand, for he felt his chest how
relieved by bloodletting. A muffled stuffiness was spread over the room, silent wept, the children,
a not quite mastered sobs revealed the internal movement the poor sister in law, and in between
came the ticking of the stoic and Schwarzwälderuhr notifying her the full hour cuckoo. The memory
of the time and daily routine led the agitated by a violent incident spirits in the everyday
rut gradually returned. Scourge rider while still remaining silent, but when the caring sister
the broken glass from his hand away and had created an association, he felt pushed it to a few apologetic
words. You may excuse his violence; But you know that he himself could not endure that he try to
escape the and that it might make him impossible with this attitude a joy to his image in front
of to see. He hated his own moves, they were profoundly repugnant to him, if he once even accidentally
catch sight of him the day and the week is ruined. The mirror is therefore his greatest enemy
... After these words he is not without self-discipline and a certain shame had uttered more
than talk, he retired to his study and was, despite the urgent pleas of his children, who knocked
on his door repeatedly, On this day never been seen.

Like all the exaggerated emotions and states of men, was also the self-hatred and based on the
self-torture of our wonderful philosophers a very human motive. When he was courting, he visited
the house of a widow who had two daughters, which he actually the younger, his present-law,
loved. The older but took advantage of love the mood of the young man knew him by a hundred favors
and considerations to flatter, and the younger daughter, who had only a small degree the gift
of their feelings to borrow the right word, he let lie aside, although he as a pain felt closer
to her can not. Since the mother completely, like nearly all mothers, tear yourself away from the
pedantry could not marry their daughters to the age group, came about a marriage that complied
with the intentions of the young husband, not really. Once he remembered, he had to admit honestly
that if he brought home the older, but his heart really belonged
to the younger.

But once claimed the existing state his imperious rights. It was found in the basically good
disposition of the young woman deal fairly, and ceased altogether when the children's blessing
and the loving mother one after two well-crafted girl in the arms of the happy husband seemed
to put a be satisfied secured future. Unfortunately, the woman began to sicken. A breast disease
as they are in delicate, slender blondes often adjusts the woman consumed without that they seemed
to suffer sensitive, slowly. Was not without emotion, the young widower to her grave, because
the habit of living together is a band that is sometimes more holds as the most violent love.
Mathilde was dead, and Leonie, the younger sister, took over the task of caring for the children
and to run the house. Rapidly darkened widower the image of his late wife, because she saw through
the presence and active intervention does not could remember more of themselves and had a more
intimate feeling she never married, whereas took advantage of the never discontinued, just
the old heart to Leonie reassert rights adjourned. He himself must feel in the presence of his
children. The younger daughter, black, with fiery eyes as Leonie, his decisive favorite to which
he all his tenderness transferred, the elder, however, like him on trains, with blond hair
and blue eyes the mother, he regarded with a certain reluctance that he could defeat hard. But
then he took the girl by the head, pressed her a fierce kiss on the mouth and made the poor child
in silent apology. But as he of the beloved sister-in towards the innermost bound was in vain
for words and struggled to express her feelings are, and it also itself, a closed, bashful nature,
his nature, and omission only with the eyes pursued and expressed their love in the only other
working people, are attracted to the young scholar himself and his books back, with those trained
in him an aversion to himself, had made in the smashing of the mirror so violent air. He joined
mentally that a lot of common time direction to the right in the thirst of our day and quite
unlike the usual cheeky advance their own personal love, in the slope like to depress one's self
and as something to be insignificant and meaningless to dissolve in the general flow of things.
He paid homage to this great Vanity of a self bespiegelnden self-destruction. He passionately
pursued the desire to annihilate his ego to destroy his personality. Our Western Means of self-destruction
not satisfied, he called on all willing now bubbling Resources of the Indian thought to bring
about his service. The grandiose Vedantalehre in nature, those caused by the fear of eternal
rebirth of life, the oppressive weight of human life by mere self-knowledge and disenchantment of
the world of puzzle back shaken, struck in his thinking mighty waves. He could dive down into this
blissful nothingness that is supposed to be everything.

But the genius of humanity is smiling upon such extravagances of thought and Will. Playing it
will resolve the spasm, and the gracious smile of a girl has already some philosophers, who held the
woman for the embodiment of evil, to a milder view converted. Hanns scourge rider, rural philosopher
of pessimism, was also on this other way out and an unfortunate one lucky man His sister in
law Leonard found the means to indicate to him that she loved him, and Hanns it came half-way
contrary. For her next birthday he gave her a mirror. He was again Pleasure in his face, since it
pleased a dear girl, and this level trough not. As the Christmas season approached, good spirits
darted through the house. On Christmas Eve came the scourge Lieblingstöchterchen rider up
with red cheeks from the garden and told her father, giving him enough to shoot a cherry tree, "Look,
Father, I have a dead branch broken from the tree, and as I was bent, he was green on the inside
... "" Oh, my child, "exclaimed the happy father," I thank you for your good news. "Then He took the
child and hugged and kissed it, but the blonde sister, the frightened Child, he embraced with
overflowing tenderness. Evening, however, led the converted Leonie Hanns in the mess of splendor
filled rooms. She held her hands to upon entering Eyes and let him free only when they stood
before a large Venetian mirror.

The The Christmas tree lights were burning them against it, but was surprised more beautiful
he, when he saw the beloved girls, cheek to cheek with him, look out from the glass. The two
children climbed up on them and finished with their love faces the lovely Reflection. "I'm not
so bad," said Hanns smiling Leonie and pressed a hot kiss on the mouth. The cuckoo clock but
in the Black Forest called a happy hour.

(On December 25, 1887)

The Oberammergau nativity play


He must have seen the futility of a lie, or else was scared out of all contrivance. "Yes,"
he said weakly.

"You have allowed it to become the talk of London that this filthy nobleman is blackmailing
you for your daughter," I went on, without wasting words. "Tell me, is it, or is it not, true?"

As he did not answer, I retained a handful of the grained silk on his shoulder as a measure
of precaution.

"Is this so?" I repeated.

"You must know, I suppose," he said, under his breath, and with a note of sullenness.

"I must," I said firmly. "The knowledge is the weapon need, for I, too, am going to meet Chartersea."

He ceased quivering all at once.

"You are going to meet him!" he cried, in another voice. "Yes, yes, it is so,--it is so. I
will tell you all."

"Keep it to yourself, Mr. Manners," I replied, with repugnance, "I have heard all I wish. Where
is he?" I demanded.

"Hold the path until you come to him. And God bless--"

I shook my head.

"No, not that! Do you go back to the company and make some excuse for me. Do not alarm them.
And if you get the chance, tell Lord Comyn where to come."

I waited until I saw him under the lights of the Grand Walk, and fairly running. Then I swung
on my heel. I was of two minds whether to wait for Comyn, by far the wiser course. The unthinking
recklessness I had inherited drove me on.

CHAPTER XLI

THE WILDERNESS

My eyes had become accustomed to the darkness, and presently I made out a bench ahead, with
two black figures starting from it. One I should have known on the banks of the Styx. From
each came a separate oath as I stopped abreast them, and called the duke by name.

"Mr. Carvel!" he cried; "what the devil do you here, sir?"

"I am come to keep an appointment for Mr. Manners," I said. "May I speak to your Grace alone?"

He made a peculiar sound by sucking in his breath, meant for a sneering laugh.

"No," says he, "damned if you shall! I have nothing in common with you, sir. So love for Miss
Manners has driven you mad, my young upstart. And he is not the first, Lewis."

"Nor the last, by G--," says the captain.

"I have a score to settle with you, d--n you!" cried Chartersea.

"That is why I am here, your Grace," I replied; "only you have twisted the words. There has
been foul play enough. I have come to tell you," I cried, boiling with anger, "I have come
to tell you there has been foul play enough with a weakling that cannot protect himself, and
to put an end to your blackmail."

In the place of an oath, a hoarse laugh of derision came out of him. But I was too angry then
to note its significance. I slapped his face--nay, boxed it so that my palm stung. I heard
his sword scraping out of the scabbard, and drew mine, stepping back to distance at the same
instant. Then, with something of a shudder, I remembered young Atwater, and a 380 brace of
other instances of his villany. I looked for the captain. He was gone.

Our blades, the duke's and mine, came together with a ring, and I felt the strength of his
wrist behind his, and of his short, powerful arm. The steel sung with our quick changes from
'quarte' to 'tierce'. 'Twas all by the feeling, without light to go by, and hatred between
us left little space for skill. Our lunges were furious. 'Twas not long before I felt his point
at my chest, but his reach was scant. All at once the music swelled up voices and laughter
were wafted faintly from the pleasure world of lights beyond. But my head was filled, to the
exclusion of all else, with a hatred and fury. And (God forgive me!) from between my teeth
came a prayer that if I might kill this monster, I would die willingly.

Suddenly, as I pressed him, he shifted ground, and there was Lewis standing within range of
my eye. His hands were nowhere--they were behind his back! God alone knows why he had not murdered
me. To keep Chartersea between him and me I swung another quarter. The duke seemed to see my
game, struggled against it, tried to rush in under my guard, made a vicious lunge that would
have ended me then and there had he not slipped. We were both panting like wild beasts. When
next I raised my eyes Lewis had faded into the darkness. Then I felt my head as wet as from
a plunge, the water running on my brow, and my back twitching. Every second I thought the sting
of his sword was between my ribs. But to forsake the duke would have been the maddest of follies.

In that moment of agony came footsteps beating on the path, and by tacit consent our swords
were still. We listened.

"Richard! Richard Carvel!"

For the second time in my life I thanked Heaven for that brave and loyal English heart. I called
back, but my throat was dry and choked.

"So they are at their d--d assassins' tricks again! You need have no fear of one murderer."

With that their steels rang out behind me, like broadswords, Lewis wasting his breath in curses
and blasphemies. I began to push Chartersea with all my might, and the wonder of it was that
we did not fight with our fingers on each other's necks. His attacks, too, redoubled. Twice
I felt the stings of his point, once in the hand, and once in the body, but I minded them as
little as pinpricks. I was sure I had touched him, too. I heard him blowing distressedly. The
casks of wine he had drunk in his short life were telling now, and his thrusts grew weaker.
That fiercest of all joys--of killing an enemy--was in me, when I heard a cry that rang in
my ears for many a year afterward, and the thud of a body on the ground.

"I have done for him, your Grace," says Lewis, with an oath; and added immediately, "I think
I hear people."

Before I had reached my Lord the captain repeated this, and excitedly begged the duke, I believe,
to fly. Chartersea hissed out that he would not move a step until he had finished me, and as
I bent over the body his point popped through my coat, and the pain shot under my shoulder.
I staggered, and fell. A second of silence ensued, when the duke said with a laugh that was
a cackle:

"He won't marry her, d--n him!" (panting). "He had me cursed near killed, Lewis. Best give
him another for luck."

I felt his heavy hand on the sword, and it tearing out of me. Next came the single word "Dover,"
and they were gone. I had not lost my senses, and was on my knees again immediately, ripping
open Comyn's waistcoat with my left hand, and murmuring his name in an agony of sorrow. I was
searching under his shirt, wet with blood, when I became aware of voices at my side. "A duel!
A murder! Call the warders! Warders, ho!"

"A surgeon!" I cried. "A surgeon first of all!"

Some one had wrenched a lamp from the Grand Walk and held it, flickering in the wind, before
his Lordship's face. Guided by its light, more people came running through the wood, then the
warders with lanthorns, headed by Mr. Tyers, and on top of him Mr. Fitzpatrick and my Lord
Carlisle. We carried poor Jack to the house at the gate, and closed the doors against the crowd.

By the grace of Heaven Sir Charles Blicke was walking in the gardens that night, and, battering
at the door, was admitted along with the constable and the watch. Assisted by a young apothecary,
Sir Charles washed and dressed the wound, which was in the left groin, and to our anxious questions
replied that there was a chance of recovery.

"But you, too, are hurt, sir," he said, turning his clear eyes upon me. Indeed, the blood had
been dripping from my hand and arm during the whole of the operation, and I began to be weak
from the loss of it. By great good fortune Chartersea's thrust, which he thought had ended
my life, passed under my armpit from behind and, stitching the skin, lodged deep in my right
nipple. This wound the surgeon bound carefully, and likewise two smaller ones.

The constable was for carrying me to the Marshalsea. And so I was forced to tell that I had
quarrelled with Chartersea; and the watch, going out to the scene of the fight, discovered
the duke's sword which he had pulled out of me, and Lewis's laced hat; and also a trail of
blood leading from the spot. Mr. Tyers testified that he had seen Chartersea that night, and
Lord Carlisle and Fitzpatrick to the grudge the duke bore me. I was given my liberty.

Comyn was taken to his house in Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, in Sir Charles's coach, whither
I insisted upon preceding him. 'Twas on the way there that Fitzpatrick told me Dorothy had
fainted when she heard the alarm--a piece of news which added to my anxiety. We called up the
dowager countess, Comyn's mother, and Carlisle broke the news to her, mercifully lightening
me of a share of the blame. Her Ladyship received the tidings with great fortitude; and instead
of the torrent of reproaches I looked for, and deserved, she implored me to go home and care
for my injuries lest I get the fever. I believe that I burst into tears. But in the fall of the monastery was also home of the disease
infected. And to pull their children out of danger, underwent the concerned mother turn the
hardships of emigration. One thing they did span, then, invited the essentials on the car and drove
her children were with her, Paul and Margaret, while Martin's appears much earlier, the university
had followed and Hans in Weimar on the Registry worked out the Elster gate, Torgau to [652].

Since the accident happened: the horses were afraid and went by car over hill and through Stone.
The terrified woman tried to save the lives of their children, and the wild horses stop her, she
jumped from the car, but fell so unhappy that they violently on the Body anprallte the ground
and then crashed into a ditch with cold water. The excitement of Case, the common cold, and
probably an internal injury caused a severe illness caused [653].

Thus, the Luther family came to Torgau. Here they lived in the monastery of the "next street
which leads to the castle, in a corner house in the monastery church to the inn. Here was maintained
now wife Catherine in great pain then slowly wasting away from her
landlady and her daughter Margaret, who had now 18 years old [646].

One more bright spot saw the widow of Luther in these days of suffering. Her youngest son, Paul,
the built itself up to an able physician engaged themselves in this time with Anne Warbeck,
the daughter of the erstwhile Mr. Veit Warbeck, former canon of the Old Castle and Elector.
Councilor and Vice Chancellor of Torgau, a noble from Swabia.

Her mother, Anne of Hack - also a born Swabian - was still alive and had a house at Torgau in the
Fischer Gasse [646].

Miss Anna was a resolute woman. She had worn a Damastrock with Samtschleppe and was therefore
the City Council with reference to a dress code drawn into electoral punishment been. However, they
fought back and appealed to the electors, so that an honorable City
Council a messenger to report on Anna Warb Eckin had to send Supplicien
gene Dresden for wage and tip.

S. Kurf. Gn. sent now in this subject to the honorable Council of Torgau following Adoption:

"Dear
faithful! We are honest and love of the peculiar maiden by Anne Warbeck humiliating the action
before been reported that you like her the damask velvet skirt with tail to include wear and, moreover,
you shall pay a penalty have imposed a number of guilders. Although we know to remind us what
we have half the clothes in the police order let go, We note however, that the imaginary father
of a young women of nobility and fürstl. Council was also the damask, which made the skirt,
and the princely gift Skirts before order made above outgoing. Hiking trails happen because
we have that she should wear skirts such honor. And desirable, then, ye will admit of its kind
and to spare with the required punishment, otherwise you act against them and so , Shew that
they have no weighting to complain. It takes our entirely reliable opinion. Date of Dresden,
30 Jan. Anno LII "[654].

This noble lady was thus the daughter-wife Catherine and this is where determined nature of their
future son wife have had their favor.

But the joy of Marriage did not live wife Catherine.

Three Months of sickness of the sick. With Christian patience they endured the suffering and
care for the children. "In the whole period of their illness, they consoled themselves and held
upright with God's word. In hot prayers they prayed for a peaceful Passing away from this tedious life.
Often, too, God commanded the church and their children and prayed that the purity of the
doctrine that God brought back by her husband's work of this period,
the unaltered offspring can be passed down.

"But she herself was" in Christ , Stick like burrs to the dress,
"a word that pious after singer in the song nachsprachen [655].

On 20 December 1552 she gave up her soul.

The Vice-Rector of the
University, Paul Eber, made the students through one of Melanchthon
Latin authored "corpse program known, in which their lives and suffering
described briefly was. I shouted, while he gave back in his alarm. "Do you mean that Grafton has got possession
of the estate? Is that what you mean, sir?"

"Yes," he gasped, "yes. I pray you be calm."

"And you call that worse than losing my dearest friend on earth?" I cried. There must have
been an infinite scorn in my voice. "Then your standards and mine are different, Mr. Manners.
Your ways and mine are different, and I thank God for it. You have played more than one double
part with me. You looked me in the face and denied me, and left me to go to a prison. I shall
not repeat my grandfather's kindnesses to you, sir. Though you may not recall them, I do. And
if your treatment of me was known in Maryland, you would be drummed out of the colony even
as Mr. Hood was, and hung in effigy"

"As God hears me, Richard--"

"Do not add perjury to it," I said. "And have no uneasiness that I shall publish you. Your
wife and daughter have saved you before,--they will save you now." The
Cerro del Portachuelo, a mountain that rises on the plateau of the Cordillera itself, between
the sources of the lake and Mocoa Sebondoy from which the Rio Putumayo * * or Jca arises.
The Meta, Guaviare of which Caqueta and the Putumayo are thus the only large rivers, which
rise directly on the eastern slopes of the Andes of Santa Fe, Popayan and Pasto. The Vichada, the
Zama, the Inirida, the Rio Negro, and the Uaupes Apoporis that our maps also westward to the mountains
to continue rise, far from it either in the savannahs between Meta and Guaviare or bergigten
country which, according to the statements of Natives, five, six days' journey begins west of
the missions of the Javita and Maroa and as the Sierra Tunuhy beyond Xie Issana extends.
 You, who have not a cat's courage,
commit an indiscretion! You never made one in your life, Tell me," I cried, shaking him until
his teeth smote together, "was it not put up between you?"

"Let me go! Let me go, and I will tell!" he wailed in the agony of my grip. I tightened it
the more.

"You shall confess it first," I said, from between my teeth.

Scarce had his lips formed the word yes, when I had flung him half across the room. He tripped
on his gown, and fell sprawling on his hands. So the servant found us when he came back with
the tray. The water of the Orinoco is
cloudy, full of buried materials, and has in the bays because of the many dead crocodiles and
other decaying body a bisamartigen, süßlichten smell. To this water to drink , we had it often
strain through a cloth. The water of Atabapo other hand, is pure, brownish with a pleasant taste,
without a trace of odor, at reflektirtem light yellowish when continuous. The people call the
same "easy" in contrast to the dull, heavy Orinocowasser.


"Richard, I have heard all.--I listened. Are you going away without a word for me?" Her breath
came fast, and mine, as she laid a hand upon my arm. "Richard, I do not care whether you are
poor. 

Also from the Wartburg, finally appeared a German sermon book ("Postilla") of Luther and St.
Michael's of the same year (1522) nor a Wartburg work "The New Testament German ". Now, anyone
could and above all the spiritual people in the monastery, which wanted to follow the advice
and lead a Protestant evangelical life, from the source To know what is true Christianity, as taught
by Christ and the apostles, and as Luther had designed.


For a moment I looked into the depths of her eyes. Then she was gone, and I went down the stairs
alone. Outside, the rain fell unheeded on my new coat. My steps bent southward, past Whitehall,
where the martyr Charles had met death so nobly: past the stairs to the river, where she had
tripped with me so gayly not a month since. He holds the Daricavanas, Puchirinavis
Manitibitanos and for the most cannibalistic. He contends that this abominable custom of them
only for a piece of systematic revenge: they eat only enemies in combat in their Hands dropped.


