Our main difficulties were now over, and in due time we reached the Dalles, where almost everyone
connected with the expedition voted it a wretched failure; indeed, General Rains himself could
not think otherwise, but he scattered far and wide blame for the failure of his combinations.
This, of course, led to criminations and recriminations, which eventuated in charges of incompetency
preferred against him by Captain Edward O. C. Ord, of the Third Artillery. Rains met the charges
with counter-charges against Ord, whom he accused of purloining Father Pandoza's shoes, when
the soldiers in their fury about the ammunition destroyed the Mission.  At the time of its
destruction a rumor of this nature was circulated through camp, started by some wag, no doubt
in jest; for Ord, who was somewhat eccentric in his habits, and had started on the expedition
rather indifferently shod in carpet-slippers, here came out in a brand-new pair of shoes. 
Of course there was no real foundation for such a report, but Rains was not above small things,
as the bringing of this petty accusation attests.  Neither party was ever tried, for General
John E. Wool the department commander, had not at command a sufficient number of officers of
appropriate rank to constitute a court in the case of Rains, and the charges against Ord were
very properly ignored on account of their trifling character.

Shortly after the expedition returned to the Dalles, my detachment was sent down to Fort Vancouver,
and I remained at that post during the winter of 1855-'56, till late in March.

CHAPTER V.

AN INDIAN CONFEDERATION--MASSACRE AT THE CASCADES OF THE COLUMBIA--PLAN TO RELIEVE THE BLOCKHOUSE--A
HAZARDOUS FLANK MOVEMENT--A NEW METHOD OF ESTABLISHING GUILT--EXECUTION OF THE INDIAN MURDERERS.

The failure of the Haller expedition from lack of a sufficient force, and of the Rains expedition
from the incompetency of its commander, was a great mortification to the officers and men connected
with them, and, taken together, had a marked effect upon the Indian situation in Oregon and
Washington Territories at that particular era.  Besides, it led to further complications and
troubles, for it had begun to dawn upon the Indians that the whites wanted to come in and dispossess
them of their lands and homes, and the failures of Haller and Rains fostered the belief with
the Indians that they could successfully resist the pressure of civilization.

Acting under these influences, the Spokanes, Walla Wallas, Umatillas, and Nez Perces cast their
lot with the hostiles, and all the savage inhabitants of the region east of the Cascade Range
became involved in a dispute as to whether the Indians or the Government should possess certain
sections of the country, which finally culminated in the war of 1856.

Partly to meet the situation that was approaching, the Ninth Infantry had been sent out from
the Atlantic coast to Washington Territory, and upon its arrival at Fort Vancouver encamped
in front of the officers' quarters, on the beautiful parade-ground of that post, and set about
preparing for the coming campaign.  The commander, Colonel George Wright, who had been promoted
to the colonelcy of the regiment upon its organization the previous year, had seen much active
duty since his graduation over thirty years before, serving with credit in the Florida and
Mexican wars.  For the three years previous to his assignment to the Ninth Infantry he had
been stationed on the Pacific coast, and the experience he had there acquired, added to his
excellent soldierly qualities, was of much benefit in the active campaigns in which, during
the following years, he was to participate.  Subsequently his career was brought to an untimely
close when, nine years after this period, as he was returning to the scene of his successes,
he, in common with many others was drowned by the wreck of the ill-fated steamer Brother Jonathan.
Colonel Wright took command of the district in place of Rains, and had been at Vancouver but
a short time before he realized that it would be necessary to fight the confederated tribes
east of the Cascade Range of mountains, in order to disabuse them of the idea that they were
sufficiently strong to cope with the power of the Government.  He therefore at once set about
the work of organizing and equipping his troops for a start in the early spring against the
hostile Indians, intending to make the objective point of his expedition the heart of the Spokane
country on the Upper Columbia River, as the head and front of the confederation was represented
in the person of old Cammiackan, chief of the Spokanes.

The regiment moved from Fort Vancouver by boat, March 25, 1856, and landed at the small town
called the Dalles, below the mouth of the Des Chutes River at the eastern base of the Cascade
Range, and just above where the Columbia River enters those mountains.  This rendezvous was
to be the immediate point of departure, and all the troops composing the expedition were concentrated
there.

On the morning of March 26 the movement began, but the column had only reached Five Mile Creek
when the Yakimas, joined by many young warriors-free lances from other tribes, made a sudden
and unexpected attack at the Cascades of the Columbia, midway between Vancouver and the Dalles,
killed several citizens, women and children, and took possession of the Portage by besieging
the settlers in their cabins at the Upper Cascades, and those who sought shelter at the Middle
Cascades in the old military block-house, which had been built some years before as a place
of refuge under just such circumstances. These points held out, and were not captured, but
the landing at the Lower Cascades fell completely into the hands of the savages. Straggling
settlers from the Lower Cascades made their way down to Fort Vancouver, distant about thirty-six
miles, which they reached that night; and communicated the condition of affairs.  As the necessity
for early relief to the settlers and the re-establishment of communication with the Dalles
were apparent, all the force that could be spared was ordered out, and in consequence I immediately
received directions to go with my detachment of dragoons, numbering about forty effective men,
to the relief of the middle blockhouse, which really meant to retake the Cascades.  I got ready
at once, and believing that a piece of artillery would be of service to me, asked for one,
but as there proved to be no guns at the post, I should have been obliged to proceed without
one had it not been that the regular steamer from San Francisco to Portland was lying at the
Vancouver dock unloading military supplies, and the commander, Captain Dall, supplied me with
the steamer's small iron cannon, mounted on a wooden platform, which he used in firing salutes
at different ports on the arrival and departure of the vessel.  Finding at the arsenal a supply
of solid shot that would fit the gun, I had it put upon the steamboat Belle, employed to carry
my command to the scene of operations, and started up the Columbia River at 2 A.M. on the morning
of the 27th. We reached the Lower Cascades early in the day, where, selecting a favorable place
for the purpose, I disembarked my men and gun on the north bank of the river, so that I could
send back the steamboat to bring up any volunteer assistance that in the mean time might have
been collected at Vancouver.

The Columbia River was very high at the time, and the water had backed up into the slough about
the foot of the Lower Cascades to such a degree that it left me only a narrow neck of firm
ground to advance over toward the point occupied by the Indians.  On this neck of land the
hostiles had taken position, as I soon learned by frequent shots, loud shouting, and much blustering;
they, by the most exasperating yells and indecent exhibitions, daring me to the contest.

After getting well in hand everything connected with my little command, I advanced with five
or six men to the edge of a growth of underbrush to make a reconnoissance.  We stole along
under cover of this underbrush until we reached the open ground leading over the causeway or
narrow neck before mentioned, when the enemy opened fire and killed a soldier near my side
by a shot which, just grazing the bridge of my nose, struck him in the neck, opening an artery
and breaking the spinal cord.  He died instantly.  The Indians at once made a rush for the
body, but my men in the rear, coming quickly to the rescue, drove them back; and Captain Doll's
gun being now brought into play, many solid shot were thrown into the jungle where they lay
concealed, with the effect of considerably moderating their impetuosity.  Further skirmishing
at long range took place at intervals during the day, with little gain or loss, however, to
either side, for both parties held positions which could not be assailed in flank, and only
the extreme of rashness in either could prompt a front attack.  My left was protected by the
back water driven into the slough by the high stage of the river, and my right rested secure
on the main stream.  Between us was only the narrow neck of land, to cross which would be certain
death.  The position of the Indians was almost the exact counterpart of ours.

In the evening I sent a report of the situation back to Vancouver by the steamboat, retaining
a large Hudson's Bay bateau which I had brought up with me.  Examining this I found it would
carry about twenty men, and made up my mind that early next morning I would cross the command
to the opposite or south side of the Columbia River, and make my way up along the mountain
base until I arrived abreast the middle blockhouse, which was still closely besieged, and then
at some favorable point recross to the north bank to its relief, endeavoring in this manner
to pass around and to the rear of the Indians, whose position confronting me was too strong
for a direct attack.  This plan was hazardous, but I believed it could be successfully carried
out if the boat could be taken with me; but should I not be able to do this I felt that the
object contemplated in sending me out would miserably fail, and the small band cooped up at
the block-house would soon starve or fall a prey to the Indians, so I concluded to risk all
the chances the plan involved.

On the morning of March 28 the savages were still in my front, and after giving them some solid
shot from Captain Dall's gun we slipped down to the river-bank, and the detachment crossed
by means of the Hudson's Bay boat, making a landing on the opposite shore at a point where
the south channel of the river, after flowing around Bradford's Island, joins the main stream.
It was then about 9 o'clock, and everything had thus far proceeded favorably, but examination
of the channel showed that it would be impossible to get the boat up the rapids along the mainland,
and that success could only be assured by crossing the south channel just below the rapids
to the island, along the shore of which there was every probability we could pull the boat
through the rocks and swift water until the head of the rapids was reached, from which point
to the block-house there was smooth water. Telling the men of the embarrassment in which I
found myself, and that if I could get enough of them to man the boat and pull it up the stream
by a rope to the shore we would cross to the island and make the attempt, all volunteered to
go, but as ten men seemed sufficient I selected that number to accompany me.  Before starting,
however, I deemed it prudent to find out if possible what was engaging the attention of the
Indians, who had not yet discovered that we had left their front.  I therefore climbed up the
side of the abrupt mountain which skirted the water's edge until I could see across the island.
From this point I observed the Indians running horse-races and otherwise enjoying themselves
behind the line they had held against me the day before.  The squaws decked out in gay colors,
and the men gaudily dressed in war bonnets, made the scene most attractive, but as everything
looked propitious for the dangerous enterprise in hand I spent little time watching them. 
Quickly returning to the boat, I crossed to the island with my ten men, threw ashore the rope
attached to the bow, and commenced the difficult task of pulling her up the rapids.  We got
along slowly at first, but soon striking a camp of old squaws who had been left on the island
for safety, and had not gone over to the mainland to see the races, we utilized them to our
advantage.  With unmistakable threats and signs we made them not only keep quiet, but also
give us much needed assistance in pulling vigorously on the towrope of our boat.

I was laboring under a dreadful strain of mental anxiety during all this time, for had the
Indians discovered what we were about, they could easily have come over to the island in their
canoes, and, by forcing us to take up our arms to repel their attack, doubtless would have
obliged the abandonment of the boat, and that essential adjunct to the final success of my
plan would have gone down the rapids. Indeed, under such circumstances, it would have been
impossible for ten men to hold out against the two or three hundred Indians; but the island
forming an excellent screen to our movements, we were not discovered, and when we reached the
smooth water at the upper end of the rapids we quickly crossed over and joined the rest of
the men, who in the meantime had worked their way along the south bank of the river parallel
with us.  I felt very grateful to the old squaws for the assistance they rendered.  They worked
well under compulsion, and manifested no disposition to strike for higher wages.  Indeed, I
was so much relieved when we had crossed over from the island and joined the rest of the party,
that I mentally thanked the squaws one and all.  I had much difficulty in keeping the men on
the main shore from cheering at our success, but hurriedly taking into the bateau all of them
it could carry, I sent the balance along the southern bank, where the railroad is now built,
until both detachments arrived at a point opposite the block-house, when, crossing to the north
bank, I landed below the blockhouse some little distance, and returned the boat for the balance
of the men, who joined me in a few minutes.

When the Indians attacked the people at the Cascades on the 26th, word was sent to Colonel
Wright, who had already got out from the Dalles a few miles on his expedition to the Spokane
country.  He immediately turned his column back, and soon after I had landed and communicated
with the beleaguered block-house the advance of his command arrived under Lieutenant-Colonel
Edward J. Steptoe.  I reported to Steptoe, and related what had occurred during the past thirty-six
hours, gave him a description of the festivities that were going on at the lower Cascades,
and also communicated the intelligence that the Yakimas had been joined by the Cascade Indians
when the place was first attacked.  I also told him it was my belief that when he pushed down
the main shore the latter tribe without doubt would cross over to the island we had just left,
while the former would take to the mountains.  Steptoe coincided with me in this opinion, and
informing me that Lieutenant Alexander Piper would join my detachment with a mountain' howitzer,
directed me to convey the command to the island and gobble up all who came over to it.

