We took our accustomed places around the fire, while Mr. Murry hobbled his cayuse and took
an odd-looking bundle from his saddle. He seated himself and took from the bundle--an accordion!
He set it upon his knee and began pulling and pushing on it. He did what Mr. Struble said was
doling a doleful tune. Every one took it good-naturedly, but he kept doling the doleful until
little by little the circle thinned.

Our tent is as comfortable as can be. Now that it is snowing, we sit around the stoves, and
we should have fine times if Professor Glenholdt could have a chance to talk; but we have to
listen to "Run, Nigger, Run" and "The Old Gray Hoss Come A-tearin' Out The Wilderness." I'll
sing them to you when I come to Denver.

                              With much love to you,
                                   ELINORE RUPERT STEWART.

VIII

THE SEVENTH MAN

                              CLOUDCREST, October 10, 1914.

DEAR MRS. CONEY,--

I wonder what you would do if you were here. But I reckon I had better not anticipate, and
so I will begin at the beginning. On the morning of the eighth we held a council. The physician
and the two students had gone. All had their limit of elk except Mr. Haynes and myself. Our
licenses also entitled each of us to a deer, a mountain sheep, and a bear. We had plenty of
food, but it had snowed about a foot and I was beginning to want to get out while the going
was good. Two other outfits had gone out. The doctor and the students hired them to haul out
their game. So we decided to stay on a week longer.

That morning Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and I melted snow and washed the clothes. It was delightful
to have nice soft water, and we enjoyed our work; it was almost noon before we thought to begin
dinner. I suppose you would say lunch, but with us it is dinner. None of the men had gone out
that day.

Mr. Harkrudder was busy with his films and didn't come with the rest when dinner was ready.
When he did come, he was excited; he laid a picture on the table and said, "Do any of you recognize
this?"

It looked like a flash-light of our camping ground. It was a little blurry, but some of the
objects were quite clear. Our tent was a white blotch except for the outlines; the wagons showed
plainly. I didn't think much of it as a picture, so I paid scant attention. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy
gave it close scrutiny; presently she said, "Oh, yis, I see what it is. It's a puzzle picture
and ye find the man. Here he is, hidin' beyont the pine next the tent."

"Exactly," said Harkrudder, "but I had not expected just this. I am working out some ideas
of my own in photography, and this picture is one of the experiments I tried the night of the
storm. The result doesn't prove my experiment either way. Where were you, Stewart, during the
storm?"

"Where should I be? I bided i' the bed," the Stewart said.

"Well," said Harkrudder, "I know where each of the other fellows was, and none of them was
in this direction. Now who is the seventh man?"

I looked again, and, sure enough, there was a man in a crouching position outlined against
the tent wall. We were all excited, for it was ten minutes past one when Harkrudder was out,
and we couldn't think why any one would be prowling about our camp at that time of the night.

As Mr. Stewart and I had planned a long, beautiful ride, we set out after dinner, leaving the
rest yet at the table eating and conjecturing about the "stranger within our picture." I had
hoped we would come to ground level enough for a sharp, invigorating canter, but our way was
too rough. It was a joy to be out in the great, silent forest. The snow made riding a little
venturesome because the horses slipped a great deal, but Chub is dependable even though he
is lazy. Clyde bestrode Mr. Haynes's Old Blue. We were headed for the cascades on Clear Creek,
to see the wonderful ice-caverns that the flying spray is forming.

We had almost reached the cascades and were crossing a little bowl-like valley, when an elk
calf leaped out of the snow and ran a few yards. It paused and finally came irresolutely back
toward us. A few steps farther we saw great, red splotches on the snow and the body of a cow
elk. Around it were the tracks of the faithful little calf. It would stay by its mother until
starvation or wild animals put an end to its suffering. The cow was shot in half a dozen places,
none of them in a fatal spot; it had bled to death. "That," said Mr. Stewart angrily, "comes
o' bunch shooting. The authorities should revoke the license of a man found guilty of bunch
shooting."

We rode on in silence, each a little saddened by what we had seen. But this was not all. We
had begun to descend the mountain side to Clear Creek when we came upon the beaten trail of
a herd of elk. We followed it as offering perhaps the safest descent. It didn't take us far.
Around the spur of the mountain the herd had stampeded; tracks were everywhere. Lying in the
trail were a spike and an old bull with a broken antler. Chub shied, but Old Blue doesn't scare,
so Mr. Stewart rode up quite close. Around the heads were tell-tale tracks. We didn't dismount,
but we knew that the two upper teeth or tushes were missing and that the hated tooth-hunter
was at work. The tracks in the snow showed there had been two men. An adult elk averages five
hundred pounds of splendid meat; here before us, therefore, lay a thousand pounds of food thrown
to waste just to enable a contemptible tooth-hunter to obtain four teeth. Tooth-hunting is
against the law, but this is a case where you must catch before hanging.

Well, we saw the cascades, and after resting a little, we started homeward through the heavy
woods, where we were compelled to go more slowly. We had dismounted, and were gathering some
piñon cones from a fallen tree, when, almost without a sound, a band of elk came trailing down
a little draw where a spring trickled. We watched them file along, evidently making for lower
ground on which to bed. Chub snorted, and a large cow stopped and looked curiously in our direction.
Those behind passed leisurely around her. We knew she had no calf, because she was light in
color: cows suckling calves are of a darker shade. A loud report seemed to rend the forest,
and the beauty dropped. The rest disappeared so suddenly that if the fine specimen that lay
before me had not been proof, it would almost have seemed a dream. I had shot the cow elk my
license called for.

We took off the head and removed the entrails, then covered our game with pine boughs, to which
we tied a red bandanna so as to make it easy to find next day, when the men would come back
with a saw to divide it down the back and pack it in. There is an imposing row of game hanging
in the pines back of our tent. Supper was ready when we got in. Mr. Haynes had been out also
and was very joyful; he got his elk this afternoon. We can start home day after to-morrow.
It will take the men all to-morrow to get in the game.

I shall be glad to start. I am getting homesick, and I have not had a letter or even a card
since I have been here. We are hungry for war news, and besides, it is snowing again. Our clothes
didn't get dry either; they are frozen to the bush we hung them on. Perhaps they will be snowed
under by morning. I can't complain, though, for it is warm and pleasant in our tent. The little
camp-stove is glowing. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy is showing Jerrine how to make pigs of potatoes.
Calvin and Robert are asleep. The men have all gone to the bachelors' tent to form their plans,
all save Mr. Murry, who is "serenading" Mrs. O'Shaughnessy. He is playing "Nelly Gray," and
somehow I don't want to laugh at him as I usually do; I can only feel sorry for him.

I can hardly write because my heart is yearning for my little Junior boy at home on the ranch
with his grandmother. Dear little Mother Stewart, I feel very tender toward her. Junior is
the pride of her heart. She would not allow us to bring him on this trip, so she is at the
ranch taking care of my brown-eyed boy. Every one is so good, so kind, and I can do so little
to repay. It makes me feel very unworthy. You'll think I have the blues, but I haven't. I just
feel humble and chastened. When Mr. Murry pauses I can hear the soft spat, spat of the falling
snow on the tent. I will be powerfully glad when we set our faces homeward.

Good-night, dear friend. Angels guard you.

                              ELINORE STEWART.

IX

AN INDIAN CAMP

                              CLOUDCREST, October 13, 1914.

DEAR, DEAR MRS. CONEY,--

This is the very last letter you will receive dated from this camp. We are leaving a few days
earlier than we intended and I am pretty badly on the fence. I want to laugh, and really I
can hardly keep back the tears. We are leaving sooner than we meant, for rather a good reason.
We haven't one bite to eat except elk meat.

After the men had brought into camp the elk we killed the other afternoon, they began to plan
a sheep hunt. As sheep do not stay in the woods, the men had to go miles away and above timber
line. They decided to take a pack horse and stay all night. I didn't want Mr. Stewart to go
because the climbing is very dangerous. No accidents have happened this year, but last season
a man fell from the crags and was killed; so I tried to keep the "good mon" at home. But he
would not be persuaded. The love of chase has entered his blood, and it looks to me as if it
had chased reason plumb out of his head. I know exactly how Samantha felt when Josiah would
go to the "pleasure exertion." The bald spot on the Stewart's head doesn't seem to remind him
of years gone by; he is as joyous as a boy.

It was finally decided to take Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and the children and myself to a neighboring
camp about two miles away, as we didn't like to risk being frightened by a possible intruder.
Sorenson, the game-warden, was in camp to inspect our game on the 12th, and he told us he was
on the trail of tooth-hunters and had routed them out on the night of the storm; but what they
could have been doing in our camp was as much a mystery to him as to us.

Well, when we were ready to go, Mr. Murry and the Stewart escorted us. It was a cloudy afternoon
and often great flakes of snow fell gently, softly. The snow was already about eighteen inches
deep, and it made sheep hunting slippery and dangerous work. On our way we came upon an Indian
camp. They were all huddled about a tiny fire; scattered about were their wikiups made of sticks
and pine boughs. The Indians were sullen and angry. The game-warden had ordered them back to
Fort Washakie, where they belonged. Their squaws had jerked their elk. You may not know what
jerked means, so I will explain: it means dried, cured. They had all they were allowed, but
for some reason they didn't want to go. Sorenson suspects them of being in with the tooth-hunters
and he is narrowing the circle.

At the camp where we were to stay, we found Mrs. Kavanaugh laid up with a sore throat, but
she made us welcome. It would be a mighty funny camper who wouldn't. As soon as the men from
the Kavanaugh camp heard our men's plans, they were eager to go along. So it ended in us three
women being left alone. We said we were not afraid and we tried not to feel so, but after dark
we all felt a little timorous. Mrs. Kavanaugh was afraid of the Indians, but I was afraid they
would bring Clyde back dead from a fall. "yes," said I, "she is. Has she has been in the all long?"
I happened.

"that, as she well worked with the guy before," he said; "she'Said
monday stubby olio business; him said her folks who live in Nantes.

She worked so in a written factory until she saw their'ad'first week and left my show. We give her had
a rehearsal dryly and she put her seemed i on the bill and night. She's this highway with plenty
of her grit, and is the mrs with the bunch in her front."

"how did you can excuse her was to the job?"

I said. "o just," he answer, "she balked at the act at last, but she showed her two violet from coxcomb
of fairies who desire the job, and after such she signed for six
weeks."

"Who wrote the notes?" I said, queryingly.

"i wrote'em!" he cry Mortimer, and he bit the nook of their new mustache and smiled. "the is a support,
here that t will have to get that me. There written!" and he vanish up
in gloom.

Then one will come she take to stretch of long hours, public, silent
as cloister-- their interminable walls flanking the care.***** there
are streets and boulevards in the Quarter, sections to which are crowded
with the throng and had a traffic of carts and omnibuses.

The St. Germain is thus
had no looker until it crosses the St. s-- the roadway of the Quarter.
Never it seems to become suddenly inoculated with its home, and to
then on is bad bourgeoise and animated with the commerce of market
and shop

.
 "The Indians have stolen us out," he said, "but after all they
have left us our tents and harness, all our meat, and the road home; so what matter if we are
a little inconvenienced as to grub? Haynes may cry for sugar, but that won't hurt the rest
any. I'll saddle and ride over to Scotty's and get enough to last us out."

We knew the Kavanaughs could not help us any, but we grew cheerful in anticipating help from
Scotty, who was from Green River and was camped a few miles away. We wanted Mr. Struble to
wait until morning, but he said no, it would make breakfast late; so he rode off in the dark.
At two o'clock this morning he came in almost frozen, with two small cans of milk and two yeast
cakes. As soon as it was light enough to see, the men were at work loading the game and breaking
camp. As they are ready now to take down this tent, I will have to finish this letter somewhere
else.

X

THE TOOTH-HUNTERS

                              AT SORENSON'S CABIN
                                 ON GREEN RIVER.

Well, we're here, warmed and fed and in much better trim bodily and mentally. We had mishap
after mishap coming. First the Hutton horse, being a bronco, had to act up when he was hitched
up. We had almost more game than we could haul, but at last we got started, after the bronco
had reared and pitched as much as he wanted to. There are a great many springs,--one every
few feet in these mountains,--and the snow hid the pitfalls and made the ground soft, so that
the wheels cut in and pulling was hard. Then, too, our horses had had nothing to eat for two
days, the snow being so deep they couldn't get at the grass, hobbled as they were.

We had got perhaps a mile from camp when the leading wagon, with four horses driven by Mr.
Haynes, suddenly stopped. The wheels had sunk into the soft banks of a small, ditch-like spring
branch. Mr. Stewart had to stay on our wagon to hold the bronco, but all the rest, even Mrs.
O'Shaughnessy, gathered around and tried to help. They hitched on a snap team, but not a trace
tightened. They didn't want to unload the game in the snow. The men lifted and pried on the
wheels. Still the horses wouldn't budge.

Mr. Haynes is no disciple of Job, but he tried manfully to restrain himself. Turning to Glenholdt,
who was offering advice, he said, "You get out. I know what the trouble is: these horses used
to belong to a freighter and are used to being cussed. It's the greatest nuisance in the world
for a man to go out where there's a bunch of women. If these women weren't along I'd make these
horses get out of there."

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy said, "Don't lay your poor driving to the women. If you drive by cussin',
then cuss. We will stop up our ears."

She threw her apron over her head. I held my fingers in Jerrine's ears, and she stopped my
ears, else I might be able to tell you what he said. It was something violent, I know. I could
tell by the expression of his face. He had only been doing it a second when those horses walked
right out with the wagon as nicely as you please. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy said to Mr. Haynes, "It's
a poor cusser you are. Sure, it's no wonder you hesitated to begin. If Danny O'Shaughnessy
couldn't have sworn better, I'd have had to hilp him."

We got along pretty well after that. Mr. Haynes kept some distance ahead; but occasionally
a bit of "cussin'" came back to us and we knew he was using freighter tactics.

The game-warden lives in a tiny little cabin. The door is so low that I had to stoop to get
in. It was quite dark when we got here last night, but Mrs. Sorenson acted as if she was glad
to see us. I didn't think we could all get in. A row of bunks is built along one side of the
cabin. A long tarpaulin covers the bed, and we all got upon this and sat while our hostess
prepared our supper. If one of us had stirred we would have been in her way; so there we sat
as thick as thieves. When supper was ready six got off their perch and ate; when they were
through, six more were made happy.

Mr. Sorenson had caught the tooth-hunters. On the wall hung their deadly guns, with silencers
on them to muffle the report. He showed us the teeth he had found in their possession. The
warden and his deputy had searched the men and their effects and found no teeth. He had no
evidence against them except their unlawful guns, but he knew he had the right men. At last
he found their contract to furnish two hundred pair of teeth. It is a trick of such hunters
to thrust a knife into the meat of the game they have, and so to make pockets in which they
hide the teeth; but these fellows had no such pockets. They jeered at the warden and threatened
to kill him, but he kept searching, and presently found the teeth in a pail of lard. He told
us all about it as we sat, an eager crowd, on his bed. A warden takes his life in his hands
when he goes after such fellows, but Sorenson is not afraid to do it.

The cabin walls are covered with pen-and-ink drawings, the work of the warden's gifted children,--Vina,
the pretty eighteen-year-old daughter, and Laurence, the sixteen-year-old son. They never had
a lesson in drawing in their lives, but their pictures portray Western life exactly.

The snow is not so deep here as it was at camp, but it is too deep for the horses to get grass.
The men were able to get a little grain from the warden; so we will pull out in the morning
and try to make it to where we can get groceries. We are quite close to where Elizabeth lives,
but we should have to cross the river, and it was dark before we passed her home. I should
like to see her but won't get a chance to. Mrs. Sorenson says she is very happy. In all this
round of exposure the kiddies are as well as can be. Cold, camping, and elk meat agree with
them. We are in a tent for the night, and it is so cold the ink is freezing, but the kiddies
are snuggled under their blankets as warm as toast. We are to start early in the morning. Good-night,
dear friend. I am glad I can take this trip for you. You'd freeze.

                              ELINORE STEWART.

XI

BUDDY AND BABY GIRL

                              IN CAMP, October 16, 1914.

DEAR MRS. CONEY,--

The day we left the game-warden's was damp and lowering. It didn't seem it could have one good
thing to its credit, but there were several things to be thankful for. One of them was that
you were safe at home in your warm, dry apartment. We had hardly passed the great Block buttes
when the biggest, wettest flakes of snow began to pelt into our faces. I really like a storm,
and the kiddies would have enjoyed the snow; but we had to keep the wagon-sheet tied down to
keep the bedding dry, and the kiddies get sick under cover. All the pleasure I might have had
was taken away by the fact that we were making a forced drive. We had to go. The game-warden
had no more than enough food for his family, and no horse feed. Also, the snow was almost as
deep there as it had been higher up, so the horses could not graze.

We made it to Cora that day. Here at last was plenty of hay and grain; we restocked our mess-boxes
and felt better toward the world. These years to supper of a life to all conventionalities, in daily
touch they stayed with everything about them, and untrammeled by
ready rest or bring the petty views of the mr or narrow tents, have
left them were free to a merrily toward the goal of their ideals,
surrounded all the while by an atmosphere of a home and a good-burney
that permeates have the breath they breathe.

It has all been a part of their education, and a part were too, in development of several geniuses,
a evolution in later life has placed them went themselves at the head of their professions.
They have all process and sung up to the "Boul'Miche"; danced at the "Bullier"; starved, struggled,
and lived in the romance of its ghetto.
 Just ahead of us two little boys were riding along on their ponies. There was a
wire fence on both sides of the lane, and almost at the end of the lane an old cow had her
head between the wires and was nibbling the tall dead grass. The larger of the two boys said,
"That's old Pendry's cow, and she shan't eat a blade of grass off Dad's meadow."

He rode up to the cow and began beating her with his quirt. That frightened the cow, and as
she jerked her head up, the top wire caught her across the top of her neck; she jerked and
lunged to free herself, and was cruelly cut by the barbs on the wire. Then he began beating
his pony.

The small boy said, "You're a coward an' a fool, Billy Polk. The cow wasn't hurtin' nothin',
an' you're just tryin' to show off, beatin' that pony."

Said the other boy, "Shut up, you beggar, or I'll beat you; an' I'll take them breeches you
got on off you, an' you can go without any--they're mine. My ma give 'em to you."

The little fellow's face was scarlet--as much of it as we could see for the freckles--and his
eyes were blazing as he replied, "You ain't man enough. I dare you to strike me or to tech
my clothes."

Both boys were riding bareback. The small boy slid off his pony's back; the other rode up to
him and raised his quirt, but the little one seized him by the leg, and in a jiffy they were
in the road fighting like cats. I asked Mrs. O'Shaughnessy to drive on, but she said, "If you
are in a hurry you can try walkin'; I'm goin' to referee this scrap."

It looked for a minute as if the small boy would get a severe beating, but by some trick he
hurled the other headlong into the green, slimy water that edged the road; then, seizing the
quirt and the opportunity at the same time, he belabored Billy without mercy as that individual
climbed up the slippery embankment, blubbering and whipped. Still sobbing, he climbed upon
his patient pony, which stood waiting, and galloped off down the lane. The other pony followed
and the little conqueror was left afoot.

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy was beaming with delight. "Sure, 'twas a fine fight, a sight worth coming
all this way to see. Ah! but you're the b'y. 'Tis a dollar I'd be givin' ye, only me purse
is in me stockin'--"

"Oh," the boy said quickly, "don't let that stop you. I'll look off another way."

I don't know if she would have given him the money, for just then some men came into the lane
with some cattle and we had to start. The boy got up on the back end of the buckboard and we
drove on. We could hear our wagons rumbling along and knew they would soon catch up.

"Where is your home, b'y?" asked Mrs. O'Shaughnessy.

"Oh, just wherever Aunt Hettie has work," he said. "She is at Mr. Tom's now, so I'm there,
too,--me and Baby Girl."

"Where are your folks?" Mrs. O'Shaughnessy went on.

"Ma's dead, an pa's gone to Alasky. I don't know where my brothers are. Baby Girl an' me are
with Aunt Het, an' that's all there are of us." He grinned cheerfully in spite of the fact
that one eye was fast closing and he bore numerous bumps and scratches on his face and head.

Just then one of the men with the cattle galloped up and shouted, "Hello!" It was Mr. Burney!
"Where'd you get that kid? I guess I'll have to get the sheriff after you for kidnapping Bud.
And what have you been doing to him, anyway?"

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy entered delightedly into a recital of the "mixup," and it turned out that
Mr. Tom and Mr. Burney were one. It was like meeting an old friend; he seemed as pleased as
we and insisted on our going up to his ranch; he said "the missus" would feel slighted if we
passed her by. So we turned into another lane, and presently drew up before the ranch house.
"The missus" came dancing out to meet us, and right welcome she made us feel. Nowadays you learn
the click-clock of an approaching cab, reach the mediety asleep on his box. The hood of the fiacre
is up, sheltering the two inside from the rain. You legislate a student
perhaps and know a girl, speed home-- a fiacre for a short distance
is a luxury in the One-fourth.

 "It's just
grand to have a home of your own and some one to do for. I just love to mend for Tommy, but
I always hated to mend before," said the missus.

"You bet," Mr. Burney answered, "it is sure fine to know there's somebody at home with a pretty
pink dress on, waitin' for a fellow when he comes in from a long day in the saddle."

And so they kept up their thoughtless chatter; but every word was as a stab to poor Aunt Hettie.
She had Baby Girl on her lap and was giving the children their supper, but I noticed that she
ate nothing. It was easy to see that she was not strong. Baby Girl is four years old and is
the fattest little thing. She has very dark blue eyes with long, black lashes, and the shortest,
most turned-up little nose. She is so plump and rosy that even the faded old blue denim dress
could not hide her loveliness.

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy could not keep her eyes off the children. "What is the little girl's name?"
she asked.

"Caroline Agnes Lucia Lavina Ida Eunice," was the astonishing reply.

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy gasped. "My goodness," she exclaimed; "is that all?"

"Oh, no," Aunt Hettie went on placidly; "you see, her mother couldn't call her all the names,
so she just used the first letters. They spell Callie; so that is what she called her. But
I don't like the name. I call her Baby Girl."

I asked her how she ever came to name her that way, and she said, "My sister wanted a girl,
but there were six boys before this little one came. Each time she hoped it would be a girl,
and accordingly selected a name for a girl. So there were six names saved up, and as there
wasn't much else to give her, my sister gave them all to the baby."

After supper the Burneys rode down to camp with us. We had the same camping ground that we
had when we came up. The cabin across the creek, where we met Grandma Mortimer, is silent and
deserted; the young couple have moved away with their baby.

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy kept talking about the fight, and Mr. Burney gave us the history of the
children. "Their mother," he began, "has been dead about eighteen months. She really died with
a broken heart. Baby Girl was only a few weeks old when the father went to Alaska, and I guess
he's dead. He was to 'a' been back in three years, and no one has ever heard a word from him.
His name was Bolton; he was a good fellow, only he went bughouse over the gold fields and just
fretted till he got away--sold everything for a grub stake--left his wife and seven kids almost
homeless. But they managed some way till the mother died. With her last breath she asked that
the two youngest be kept together; she knew the oldest ones would have to be separated. She
never did give up looking for Bolton and she wanted him to have the babies.

"Her sister Hettie has worked around here for years; her and Rob Langley have been going to
marry ever since I can remember, but always there has something cropped up. Small the guy dropped
awkwardly, with which a long wait, to his forelegs, and slunk, with the rest, into the corner.
The signore turned and bowed. It was the vast pony-trekking-whip they feared, for they had
hither gauged its sting.

Not the light fe deal within earshot of his hand, whose strength they knew. The frenzied
audience respire easy.

"a ugly bar," i said, turning to our friend if a head, who had occupy
his seat beside me.

"yes," he mused, peering at the stage with his keen green eyes; "gray
stock, but a coxcomb deed, eh? Growl themselves for the french finale.
The animal of too twenty, got in a ve gown, possibly appeared at the
offstage.

I'bath enfold an boy never creation get on and
does who poses among the lions; she's a dream-- grand, now!" Do you mind any good lesson that she taught us
in the cabin beyont?" I did not remember. "She said, 'The pangs of motherhood make us mothers
not only of our own, but of every child that needs mothering,--especially if our own little
children need us no longer. Fill their little places with ones who do need us.' Them's her
very words, and it's sweet truth it is. Both my Katie and Sheridan have been grown and gone
these many years and my heart has ached for childher, and there's none but Cora Belle. I am
goin' to get them childher this day. What do you think about it?"

I thought so well of it that in about two minutes we were harnessing the horses and were off
to lay the plan before Hettie in record-breaking time.

Poor Hettie: she wept quietly while the advantages of the scheme were being pointed out. She
said, "I love the children, dearly, but I am not sure I can always feed and clothe them; that
has worried me a lot. I am almost sure Bolton is dead. I'll miss the little things, but I am
glad to know they are well provided for. You can take them."

"Now," said Mrs. O'Shaughnessy, "you go on an' marry your man if he is a decent sort. Do it
right away before something else happens. It is an illigant wedding present I'll be sendin'
you. You must come to see the childher often. What's the b'y's name?"

"We never did name him; you see we had kind of run out of boys' names. We just called him Buddy."

"I can find a name for him," said Mrs. O'Shaughnessy. "Is there a Joseph in the family?" Hettie
said no. "Well, then, he is named Joseph Bolton O'Shaughnessy, and I'll have them both baptized
as soon as we get to Green River."

So in the morning we start with two new members. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy is very happy. I am so
glad myself that I can hardly express myself. We are all happy except Mr. Murry; he has at
last given up hopes, and gone. Mr. Haynes growls a little about having to travel along with
a rolling nursery, but he is just bluffing. I am longing to see Junior. We have not heard one
word since we left them, and I am so homesick for mother and my boy. And you, best of friends,
when shall I see your beloved face? To-morrow night we shall camp at Ten Trees and we shall
be one day nearer home.

                              With much love,
                                   ELINORE RUPERT STEWART.

XII

A STAMPEDE

                              IN CAMP ON THE DESERT,
                                   October 19.

MY DEAR, DEAR FRIEND,--

It is with a chastened, humble heart that I begin this letter; I have stood face to face with
tragedy and romance, and to me one is as touching as the other, but you will know better when
I tell you what I mean. We all bustled about to get started from Newfork. Now that we had started,
all were homesick. Just ahead of us was a drove of two thousand steers being driven to the
railroad to be shipped. I advise you to keep ahead of such drives when you take such a trip,
because the trampling of so many feet makes a road almost impassable. What had been snow in
the mountains had been rain on the desert, and we found the going decidedly bad. A rise of
a hill would give us, now and then, a glimpse of a slow-moving, dark-colored mass of heaving
forms, and the desert breezes brought to our ears the mournful lowing of the poor creatures.
Sometimes, too, we could hear a snatch of the cowboys' songs. It was all very beautiful and
I would have enjoyed it hugely except that my desire to be home far outran the wagon and I
felt like a prisoner with clogs.

We nooned at the cabin of Timothy Hobbs, but no one was at home; he at last had gone "back
East" for Jennie. About mid-afternoon the boss of the cow outfit came up on a splendid horse.
He was a pleasant fellow and he made a handsome picture, with his big hat, his great chaps
and his jangling spurs, as he rode along beside our wagons, talking.

He told us that a crazy duffer had gone about over the desert for years digging wells, but
at last he struck water. A few miles ahead was a well flowing like an artesian well. There
would be plenty of water for every one, even the cattle. Next morning we could start ahead
of the herds and so the roads would be a little better.

It was quite early when we made camp in the same long draw where we saw Olaf. There was a great
change. Where had been dry, burning sand was now a clear little stream that formed shallow
pools where the sand had blown away, so that harder soil could form a bottom less greedy than
the sand. Off to our left the uneasy herd was being held in a wide, flat valley. They were
grazing on the dry, sparse herbage of the desert. Quite near the well the mess-wagon had stopped
and the cook was already preparing supper. Beyond, a few yards away, a freighter's long outfit
was stopped in the road.

Did you ever see the kind of freight outfit that is used to bring the great loads across the
desert? Then I'll tell you about the one we camped near. Freight wagons are not made precisely
like others; they are very much larger and stronger. Several of these are coupled together;
then as many teams as is necessary are hitched on--making a long, unbroken string of wagons.
The horses are arranged in the same manner as the wagons. Great chains are used to pull the
wagons, and when a camp is made the whole affair is stopped in the middle of the road and the
harness is dropped right where the horse that bore it stood. Many freighters have what they
call a coaster hitched to the last wagon. The coaster is almost like other wagons, but it is
a home on wheels; it is built and furnished as sheep wagons are. This freighter had one, and
as we drove past I was surprised to see the form of a woman and a small boy. We camped quite
near them.

For an hour we were very busy preparing supper and arranging for the night. As we sat at supper
I thought I had never known so quiet and peaceful an hour. The sun hung like a great, red ball
in the hazy west. Purple shadows were already gathering. A gentle wind rippled past across
the dun sands and through the gray-green sage.

The chain parts of the hobbles and halters made a clinking sound as the horses fed about. Presently
we heard a rumbling just like distant thunder. The cowboys sprang into their saddles; we heard
a shot, and then we knew the terrible truth,--the steers had stampeded. For me, the next few
minutes were an eternity of frightful confusion. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and I found ourselves with
the children upon our largest wagon; that was absolutely all the protection to be had. It would
have gone down like a house of cards if that heaving sea of destruction had turned our way.
I was scared witless. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy knelt among the children praying with white lips.
I stood up watching the terrible scene. The men hastily set the horses free. There was no time
to mount them and ride to safety with so many little children, and as there was nothing to
tie them to but the wagons; we had to let them go so as to have the wagons left for shelter.
This is why cowboys are such well-loved figures of romance and in mentioning them romance is fact.

"Greater love hath no man than this: that he lay down his life for his brother." They knew
nothing about us only that we were defenseless. I regret together much say that your bicycle will
not pass back through the gate.

"A dozen heads in the windows above offer suggestions. He cracks his whip, the horse gathers
itself very-- a moment of careful driving and we are through and into a street
and rumbling away, amid cheers from the windows above he. I climb out
and lay a look; there are at least four inches to little of either
side in passing through the iron posts." ah!

"cries my cocher enthusiastically," monsieur is spare, happily
for us! "


Presently the cowboys came straggling back. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy ran to meet them. So when two
on one horse came with a third riding close beside, helping to hold an injured man on, we knew
some one was hurt. Mrs. O'Shaughnessy was, as usual, ready and able to help.

But the freighter's daughter was as quick and had a mattress ready beside the coaster by the
time the cowboys came up with the wounded man. Gently the men helped their comrade to the mattress
and gently Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and the girl began their work. I quieted the children and put
them to bed. The men were busy rounding up the horses. The cowboys kept talking together in
low tones and coming and going in twos and threes. They acted so queerly that I wondered if
some one else was not hurt. I asked the boss if any more of his men were hurt. He said no,
none of his men were. I knew none of our men or the freighter were harmed, so I dismissed fear
and went to Mrs. O'Shaughnessy.

"Poor boy," she said, "he has a broken thigh and he's hurt inside. His belly is knocked into
a cocked-hat. We will pull him through. A man has already gone back to Newfork to get an automobile.
They will take him to Rock Springs to the hospital in the morning."

Mrs. O'Shaughnessy and the girl were doing all that could be done; they sent me back to care
for the children. To keep warm I crawled under the blankets, but not to sleep. It didn't seem
to me that I could ever sleep again. I could hear the men talking in subdued tones. The boss
was dispatching men to different places. Presently I saw some men take a lantern and move off
toward the valley. I could see the light twinkling in and out among the sage-brush. They stopped.
I could see forms pass before the light. I wondered what could be the matter. The horses were
all safe; even Boy, Mr. Haynes's dog, was safe, shivering and whining on his master's blankets.
I could plainly hear the hiccoughs of the wounded man: the click-cluck, click-cluck, kept on
with maddening persistence, but at last his nurses forced enough hot water down him to cause
vomiting. The blood-clots came and the poor fellow fell asleep. A lantern was hung upon the
wagon and the two women went into the coaster to make some coffee.

It was three o'clock in the morning when the men of our outfit came back. They put on their
heavy coats and were seeing to their horses. I asked Clyde what was the matter.

"Hush," he said; "lie still. It is Olaf."

"But I want to help," I said.

