The European lady with her uncovered face is a conundrum and an object of intense curiosity,
even in Teheran at the present day; and in provincial cities, the wife of the lone consul or
telegraph employee finds it highly convenient to adopt the native costume, face-covering included,
when venturing abroad.  Here, in the capital, the wives and daughters of foreign ministers,
European officers and telegraphists, have made uncovered female faces tolerably familiar to
the natives; but they cannot quite understand but that there is something highly indecorous
about it, and the more unenlightened Persians doubtless regard them as quite bold and forward
creatures.  Armenian women conceal their faces almost as completely as do the Persian, when
they walk abroad; by so doing they avoid unpleasant criticism, and the rude, inquisitive gaze
of the Persian men.  Although the Persian readily recognizes the fact that a Sahib's wife or
sister must be a superior person to an Armenian female, she is as much an object of interest
to him when she appears with her face uncovered on the street, as his own wives in their highly
sensational in-door costumes would be to some of us.  In order to establish herself in the
estimation of the average Persian, as all that a woman ought to be, the European lady would
have to conceal her face and cover her shapely, tight-fitting dress with an inelegant, loose
mantle, whenever she ventured outside her own doors. With something of a penchant for undertaking
things never before accomplished, I proposed one morning to take a walk around the ramparts
that encompass the Persian capital.  The question arose as to the distance. Ali Akbar, the
head fan-ash, said it was six farsakhs (about twenty-four miles); Meshedi Ab-dul said it was
more.  From the well-known Persian characteristic of exaggerating things, we concluded from
this that perhaps it might be fifteen miles; and on this basis Mr. Meyrick, of the Indo- European
Telegraph staff, agreed to bear me company.  The ramparts consist of the earth excavated from
a ditch some forty feet wide by twenty deep, banked up on the inner side of the ditch; and
on top of this bank it is our purpose to encompass the city.

Eight o'clock on the appointed morning finds us on the ramparts at the Gulaek Gate, on the
north side of the city.  A cold breeze is blowing off the snowy mountains to the northeast,
and we decide to commence our novel walk toward the west.  Following the zigzag configuration
of the ramparts, we find it at first somewhat rough and stony to the feet; on our right we
look down into the broad ditch, and beyond, over the sloping plain, our eyes follow the long,
even rows of kanaat mounds stretching away to the rolling foothills; towering skyward in the
background, but eight miles away, are the snowy masses of the Elburz Range.  Forty miles away,
at our back, the conical peak of Demavend peeps, white, spectral, and cold, above a bank of
snow-clouds that are piled motionless against its giant sides, as though walling it completely
off from the lower world. On our left lies the city, a curious conglomeration of dead mud-walls,
flat-roofed houses, and poplar-peopled gardens.  A thin haze of smoke hovers immediately above
the streets, through which are visible the minarets and domes of the mosques, the square, illumined
towers of the Shah's anderoon, the monster skeleton dome of the canvas theatre, beneath which
the Shah gives once a year the royal tazzia (representation of the tragedy of "Hussein and
Hassan"), and the tall chimney of the arsenal, from which a column of black smoke is issuing.
Away in the distance, far beyond the confines of the city, to the southward, glittering like
a mirror in the morning sun, is seen the dome of the great mosque at Shahabdullahzeen, said
to be roofed with plates of pure gold.