Their first bit of trouble on this somewhat venturesome tour occurred at Taiyneu; when the
bill was brought for their night's entertainment, they found it was most exorbitant.  They
saw they were likely to have trouble, so they sent on the carts with luggage and waited at
this strange hostelry till they believed they had got well out of the way.  Then they offered
what they believed was a reasonable amount in payment of their bill.  It was refused.  They
then tried to mount their horses but the people at the Inn stopped them.  Major Gordon hereupon
drew his revolver more for show than for use, for he allowed them to take it from him.  He
then said, "Let us go to the Mandarin's house."  To this consent was given, and the two wide-awake
English officers walked alongside their horses.  On the way Gordon said to his companion "are
you ready to mount?"  "Yes" he replied.  So they mounted quietly, and went on with the people.
When they reached the Mandarin's, they turned their horses and galloped off after their carts
as fast as they could, having paid what they believed a reasonable amount for expenses.  The
people yelled and rushed after them, but it was too late.  Some distance from the place where
they had spent the night they came upon the pass over the mountains which led down into the
country, drained by the great Peiho river.  "The descent" says Gordon, "was terrible, and the
cold so intense that raw eggs were frozen as hard as if they had been boiled half an hour."
To add to their troubles, the carts they had sent on in front had been attacked by robbers.
They, however, with many difficulties managed to reach Tientsin in safety; their leave of absence
had been exceeded by about fourteen days.  In 1862 Major Gordon left for Shanghai under the
orders of Sir Charles Staveley who had been appointed to the command of the English forces
in China.  At the very time that England and France were at war with China, a terrible and
far reaching rebellion was laying waste whole provinces.  An article in our London Daily News
about this date said, "But for Gordon the whole Continent of China might have been a scene
of utter and hopeless ruin and devastation."  At the date he took charge of the "ever victorious
army," China was in a state of widespread anarchy and confusion.

This rebellion which Gordon was here authorized to suppress was called "The Tai-ping rebellion."
Its rise was brought about by a strange mixture of incredulity and fanaticism, caused by some
European Christian giving away his literature.  A village demagogue named Hung-tsne-Shuen caught
the idea, after reading the papers referred to, that he was inspired; that he was God, King,
Emperor, and that he ought to rule; so, puffed up with pride and insatiable ambition, he began
raising an army; and aimed at nothing less than the usurpation of the "Dragon Throne." Some
thought him mad; but he gathered about him some 20,000 men whom he had influenced to believe
in him as the "Second Celestial Brother," and gave out he was a seer of visions, a prophet
of vengeance and freedom; a champion of the poor and oppressed; and many were mad enough to
believe him, and thus he raised an army which grew in strength until it reached some hundreds
of thousands strong; he then proclaimed himself the Heavenly King, The Emperor of the great
place; and then with five wangs or warrior kings, chosen from amongst his kinsmen, he marched
through China, devastating the country, and increasing his army in his progress.

The most populous, and until now wealthy provinces were soon in his hands.  The silk factories
were silent; the Cities were falling into utter and hopeless desolation: rebellion, war and
famine, raged and reigned supreme.  Gordon made them pause!  His marvellous power of organizing
and leading men, a power derived from an inflexible, determined, fearless, and deeply religious
temperament, influenced the Chinese character quickly and powerfully.  His very name soon became
a terror to the banded brigands and to all evil doers.  An Englishman in China at the time
wrote home and said "The destiny of China is in the hands of Major Gordon, and if he remains
at his post the question will soon be settled, and peace and quiet will be restored to this
unfortunate, but sorely tried country."

In all the strange and trying experiences of this Chinese Campaign Gordon bore himself with
a bravery and courage seldom equalled, we think never surpassed.

Dr. Guthrie once said, "It is very remarkable, and highly creditable to the loyalty and bravery
of our British soldiers, that, notwithstanding all the wars in which they have been engaged,
no foreign nation to-day flaunts a British flag as a trophy of its victory and of our defeat.
Nor in the proud pillar raised by the great Napoleon in commemoration of his many victories--a
pillar made of the cannons taken by him in battles, is there an ounce of metal that belongs
to a British gun."  The characteristics of the bravest of our British soldiers were pre-eminently
displayed in Gordon.  For--

   "He holds no party with unmanly fears,
   Where duty points he confidently steers:
   Faces a thousand dangers at her call,
   And trusting in his God surmounts them all."

His soldierly qualities were very often put to the test in this strange land.  Hung, the leader
of this rebellion, had become so popular and made such marvellous progress that when Gordon
had organized his ever victorious army, Hung had captured Nanking, one of the principal cities,
and made this his capital; and here, under the very shadow of the Chinese metropolis, he established
himself in royal state.  His followers were held together by the force of his religious tenets;
they believed in him as the Lord from Heaven, who would save the suffering minds and give them
a celestial reward.  A missionary who was in Nanking, Rev. J. L. Holmes, gives his impressions
of this warlike devotee.  "At night (he says) we witnessed their worship.  It occurred at the
beginning of their sabbath, midnight on Friday.  The place of worship was the Chung-Wang's
private audience room.  He was himself seated in the midst of his attendants, no females were
present.  They first sang, or rather chanted; after which a written prayer was read, then burned
by an officer; then they rose and sang again, then separated.  The Chung-wang sent for me before
he left his seat, and asked me if I understood their mode of worship.  I replied I had just
seen it for the first time.  He explained that the Tien-wang had been to the celestial world
and had seen the Great God and obtained a revelation! &c. . . .  As the day dawned we started
for the Palace of the Tien-wang.  The procession was headed by a number of brilliantly coloured
banners, after which followed a troop of armed soldiers; then came the Chung-wang in a large
sedan, covered with yellow satin and embroidery, and borne by eight coolies.  Music of a peculiar
kind added to the scene, as the curious sightseers lined the streets on either side, who probably
never saw such a sight before.  Reaching the "Morning Palace," we were presented to the Tsau-wang
and his son with several others including the Tien-wang's two brothers, who were seated in
a deep recess over the entrance of which was written "Illustrious Heavenly Door."  In another
place was "Holy Heavenly Gate," from which a boy of about fourteen made his appearance and
took his place with the royal group; then they proceeded with their religious ceremonies again:
this time kneeling with their faces to the Tien-wang's seat.  Then they sang in a standing
position.  A roast pig and the body of a goat were lying with other articles on tables in the
outer court, and a fire was kept burning on a stone altar in the front of the Tien-wang's seat.
Afterwards, says the missionary, I was led through a number of rooms and courts to see Chung-
wang privately.  I was brought into one of his private sitting-rooms, where he sat clothed
loosely in white silk, with a red kerchief round his head, and a jewel in front.  He was seated
in an easy chair, and fanned by a pretty slipshod girl.  He asked me to a seat beside him and
questioned me about a map he had seen with parallel lines running each way, said to have been
made by foreigners, asked me to explain what it was.  He also showed me a musical-box and a
spy-glass, asking many questions.  From all I could learn by my visit to this pretender there
was nothing in their religion to elevate, but everything to degrade.  With them to rob and
murder were virtuous deeds.  "Slay the imps" was their watchword.  Gordon found in this fanatic
a foe of no mean order.  But he soon found too that courage and faith in God had done and would
still lead to victory.

Gordon had hardly yet realized the difficulties and dangers which beset him.  His troops were
undisciplined and largely composed of all nationalities.  Men bent on plunder, and exceedingly
numerous; about 120,000 men.  Gordon's appointment as Chief in Command of the "Ever Victorious
Army" proved to be a wise and good one for China.

Colonel Chesney thus writes:--"If General Staveley had made a mistake in the operations he
personally conducted the year before, he more than redeemed it by the excellence of his choice
of Gordon.  This strange army was made up of French, Germans, Americans, Spaniards, some of
good and some of bad character, but in their chief they had one whose courage they were bound
to admire, and whose justice they could not help but admit. The private plundering of vanquished
towns and cities allowed under their former chief, disappeared under the eye of a leader whose
eye was as keen, as his soul was free from the love of filthy lucre.  In every engagement,
and these numbered more than seventy, he was to the front and led in person. His somewhat undisciplined
army, had in it many brave men; but even such men were very reluctant at times to face these
desperate odds.  Whenever they showed signs of vacillation he would take one of the men by
the arm, and lead him into the very thick of the fight.  He always went unarmed even when foremost
in the breach.  He never saw danger.  A shower of bullets was no more to him than a shower
of hailstones; he carried one weapon only, and that was a little cane, which won for itself
the name of "Gordon's magic wand."  On one occasion when leading a storming party his men wavered
under a most withering fire.  Gordon coolly turned round and waving his cane, bade his men
follow him.  The soldiers inspired by his courage, followed with a tremendous rush and shout,
and at once grandly carried the position.  After the capture of one of the Cities, Gordon was
firm in not allowing them to pillage, sack and burn such places; and for this some of his men
showed a spirit of insubordination.  His artillery men refused to fall in when ordered; nay
more, they threatened to turn upon him their guns and blow him and his officers to pieces.
This news was conveyed to him by a written declaration.  His keen eye saw through their scheme
at a glance, and with that quiet determination which was his peculiar strength, he summoned
them into his presence and with a firmness born of courage and faith in God, he declared that
unless the ringleader of this movement was given up, one out of every five would be shot! 
At the same time he stepped to the front and with his own hand seized one of the most suspicious
looking of the men, dragged him out, and ordered him to be shot on the spot at once, the order
was instantly carried out by an officer.  After this he gave them half an hour to reconsider
their position at the end of which he found them ready to carry out any order he might give.
It transpired afterwards that the man who was shot was the ringleader in this insubordination."

When Gordon had broken the neck of this far-reaching and disastrous rebellion, and had restored
to the Emperor of China the principal cities and towns in peace, the London Times wrote of
him:--"Never did a soldier of fortune deport himself with a nicer sense of military honour,
with more gallantry against the resisting, with more mercy towards the vanquished, with more
disinterested neglect of opportunities of personal advantage, or with more entire devotion
to the objects and desires of the Government he served, than this officer, who, after all his
splendid victories, has just laid down his sword."

Before leaving China he was offered a very large reward in cash, as it was acknowledged on
all hands he had saved the Empire more than 5,000,000 pounds sterling.  All money he refused;
he, however, asked that some of it might be given to the troops, who had served him on the
whole with great loyalty, and this was granted.  A gold medal was struck in honour of his marvellous
achievements, and this he accepted and brought home; but it was soon missing.  He thought more
of the starving poor than of any medal; so he sold it, and sent the cash it realized to the
Lancashire Cotton Operatives, who were then literally starving.  The Imperial Decree of China
conferred upon him the rank of "Ti-tu," the very highest honour ever conferred upon a Chinese
subject.  Also the "Peacock's feather," "The Order of the Star," and the "Yellow Jacket." 
By these he was constituted one of the "Emperor's Body Guard."  In a letter home he says, "I
shall leave China as poor as I entered it, but with the knowledge that through my weak instrumentality
from eighty to one hundred thousand lives have been saved.  Than this I covet no greater satisfaction."

Before he left China, as a proof of the estimation in which he was held, a grand illuminated
address was presented to him, signed by more than sixty of the leading firms of the Empire,
and by most of the bankers and merchants of the cities of Pekin, Shanghai, and of the principal
towns throughout China.

It read thus:--"Honoured Sir,--On the eve of your departure to your native country, we, the
undersigned, mostly fellow-countrymen of your own, but also representing other nationalities,
desire to express to you our earnest wish for a successful voyage and happy return to your
friends and the land of your birth.

"Your career during your stay amongst us has been, so far as we know, without a parallel in
the history of foreign nations with China; and we feel that we should be alike wanting towards
you and towards ourselves, were we to pass by this opportunity without expressing our appreciation
and admiration of the line of conduct which you personally have pursued. In a position of unequalled
difficulty, and surrounded by complications of every conceivable nature, you have succeeded
in offering to the eyes of the Chinese Empire, no less by your loyal and thoroughly disinterested
line of action than by your conspicuous gallantry and talent for organization and command,
the example of a foreign officer, serving the government of this country, with honourable fidelity
and undeviating self- respect.

{Chinese Gordon: p45.jpg}

"Once more wishing you a prosperous voyage, and a long career of usefulness and success."

Signed, &c.

There is truth in this as applied to Gordon:--

   "He strove not for the wealth of fame,
   From heaven the power that moved him came.
   And welcome as the mountain air,
   The voice that bid him do and dare.
   Onward he bore and battled still
   With a most firm enduring will,
   His only hope to win the prize
   Laid up for him beyond the skies."

The Emperor wished the British Minister to bring before the notice of Her Majesty the Queen
of England his appreciation of the splendid services which Gordon had rendered.  He hoped that
he would be rewarded in England as well as in China for his heroic achievements.

Sir Frederick Bruce sent this to London with a letter of his own:--"I enclose translation of
a despatch from Prince Kung, containing the decree published by the Emperor, acknowledging
the services of Gordon and requesting that Her Majesty's Government be pleased to recognise
him. Gordon well deserves the favours of your Majesty for the skill and courage he has shown,
his disinterestedness has elevated our national character in the eyes of the Chinese.  Not
only has he refused any pecuniary reward, but he has spent more than his pay in contributing
to the comforts of the officers who served under him, and in assuaging the distress of the
starving population whom he relieved from the yoke of their oppressors."

It does not appear that this letter was ever sent to the Queen, or noticed by the Government,
and so the heroic deeds of a man of whom any nation might justly be proud, were forgotten.

CHAPTER III.

   "We are to relieve the distressed, to put the wanderer into his way,
   and to share our bread with the hungry, which is but the doing good to
   others."--SENECA.

Our hero having returned to his native land, and to settle for a little while at the quiet
town of Gravesend, refused to be lionized, and he begged that no publication of his deeds of
daring and devotion in China, should be recorded.  His quiet life here as an engineer was not
less remarkable, though of a different kind, than life in China had been. Here, however, he
spent the energies of his spare time, to the services of the poor.  At this juncture I was
privileged to come in contact with this remarkable man, in the great city of Manchester, where
for a few months, he was employed on some Governmental Commission.  Like his Master Christ--he
went about doing good.  My position at this time was an agent, or scripture reader for "The
Manchester City Mission."  Gordon found his way to the office and saw the chairman of the mission,
and from him got permission to accompany one of the missioners round his district.  He expressed
his desire to go round one of the poorest districts of the city; as it might afford him an
opportunity of seeing for himself some of the social blots and scars in our national life;
also of giving some practical help to the deserving poor.  My district was such an one as would
furnish him with the opportunities to satisfy him in that particular, and I was therefore asked
to allow Col. Gordon to accompany me to its squalid scenes, to my Ragged School, cottage and
open-air services, and to the sick and suffering, of which I had many on my list. This request
was gladly complied with; for the first sight of the stranger made me love and trust him.

And now the hero of so many battles fought for freedom and liberty, was to witness scenes of
warfare of a very different kind.  War, it is true, but not where there are garments rolled
in blood and victims slain; but war with the powers of darkness, war between good and evil,
truth and error, light and darkness.  We went together into the lowest slums of the district;
walked arm in arm over the ground where misery tells its sad and awful tale, where poverty
shelters its shivering frame, and where blasphemy howls its curse.  We found out haunts of
vice and sin, terrible in their character, and distressing in their consequences.  I found
he had not hitherto been accustomed to this kind of mission.  Once on my entering a den of
dangerous characters and lecturing them on their sinful course and warning them in unmistakable
words of the consequences, he afterwards said: "I could not have found courage of the kind
you show in this work; yet I never was considered lacking in courage on the field of battle.
When in the Crimea, I was sent frequently and went on hands and knees through the fall of shells
and the whizz of bullets right up to the Russian walls to watch their movements, and I never
felt afraid; I confess I need courage to warn men of sin and its dangerous consequences." 
He met me, for a time almost daily, well supplied with tracts, which I noticed he used as a
text for a few words of advice, or comfort, or warning as the case required, but he invariably
left a silver coin between the leaves; this I think was a proof he was sincere in his efforts
to do good.  Along Old Millgate, and around the Cathedral, at that time, were numerous courts
and alleys, obscure, often filthy, dark and dangerous; down or up these he accompanied me;
up old rickety staircases, into old crumbling ruins of garrets he followed without hesitation.

{C. G. Gordon: p51.jpg}

At the bedside of the dying prodigal or prostitute he would sit with intense interest, pointing
them to Him who casts out none.  In our house to house visitation he would sit down and read
of the Saviour's love, making special reference to those that are poor in this world, assuring
them it was for the outcast and the forsaken, and the lost, that Jesus came to die.  He would
kneel down for prayer by a broken chair or the corner of a slop-stone, or by the wash-tub,
and with the simplicity of a child, address in tender and touching petition, the Great Father
of all in Heaven, while tears chased each other down his sun-tanned face; his great soul going
out with his prayer for Heaven's blessing on the helpless poor.

His sympathy was tender as a child's, and his beneficence as liberal as the best of Christian's
can be.  He often came and took tea with me in my quiet home, where we had many very interesting
interviews, and where we conversed on subjects varied but mostly religious; he rarely referred
to his military achievements; when he did so it was with the greatest self abnegation and humility.
He would say, "No honour belongs to me, I am only the instrument God uses to accomplish his
purpose."  I introduced him to my ragged school; this to him was a most interesting scene of
work, and he volunteered to give us some of his time and service; and to see him with 20 or
30 of these ragged lads about him was to say the least, full of interest.  He, however, had
the happy art of getting at their heart at once; by incidents, stories and experiences, which
compelled attention and confidence.  In a very short time he won the esteem and the love of
every lad in the school.  To some of these lads he became specially attached, and for some
time after he left Manchester he kept up with me, and with several of the lads, also with some
of my colleagues on the mission--a very interesting correspondence.  Happily, I have preserved
a good number of these letters, and they show the spirit and motive of that noble soul, more
than any poor words of mine can do.

   Letter.

   GRAVESEND,
   June 19th, 1869.

   "My Dear Mr. Wardle.--My long silence has not been because I had
   forgot you and your kind reception of me; but because secular work has
   so completely taken up my time of late.  I was glad to hear of you . .
   . . and of the Dark Lane (ragged school) lads.  I often wish I could
   go down with you and see them; I often think of them.  I wish I could
   help them, but it is only by prayer that I can now benefit them.  I
   loved them very much, and look forward to the time when our weary
   march, dogged by our great foe will be ended; and we meet for ever in
   our Heavenly home.  I remember them all, Jones, Carr, &c., &c., and I
   often think of their poor young faces which must soon get deepened
   into wrinkles with sorrow and care.  Thank God we go like Israel of
   old, after a new home; we cannot find our rest here!  Day by day we
   are, little as we may think it, a day's march nearer, till someday we
   shall perhaps unexpectedly reach it."

   Good bye, my dear Mr. Wardle,
   Yours sincerely,
   C. H. GORDON.

      "Kind regards to my lads."

Gordon was deeply moved by the sights of poverty and distress around him; this was shown by
the dress and appearance of the factory hands.  He was especially struck by the clatter of
the clogs--the Lancashire cotton operative's foot gear.

To his Sister he wrote:--

   MANCHESTER,
   September 21st, 1867.

   "Your heart would bleed to see the poor people, though they say there
   is no distress such as there was some time ago; they are indeed like
   sheep having no shepherd, but, thank God, though they look forlorn,
   they have a watchful and pitying eye upon them.  It does so painfully
   affect me, and I do trust will make me think less of self, and more of
   these poor people.  Little idea have the rich of other countries of
   the scenes in these parts.  It does so make me long for that great day
   when He will come and put all things straight.

   How long, O Lord, how long!

   I have but little time to write by this post, so will say no more
   about that.  I have less confidence in the flesh than ever, thank God,
   though it is a painful struggle and makes one long for the time when,
   this our earthly tabernacle, shall be dissolved; but may His will be
   done.  If there is sin and misery, there is One who over-rules all
   things for good; we must be patient.  The poor scuttlers here, male
   and female, fill me with sorrow.  They wear wooden clogs, a sort of
   sabot, and make such a noise.  Good-bye, and may God manifest Himself
   in all His power to all of you, and make you to rejoice with joy
   unspeakable.  If we think of it, the only thing which makes the
   religion of our Lord Jesus Christ differ from that of every other
   religion, or profession, is this very indwelling of God the Holy Ghost
   in our bodies; we can do nothing good; Christ says, "Without me, ye
   can do nothing."  You are dead in trespasses and sins, you are
   corpses, and must have life put in you, and that life is God Himself,
   who dwells in us, and shows us the things of Christ."

   C. G. GORDON.

Letter. No. 2.

   "My Dear Mr. Wardle,--I had a nice letter the other day from one of my
   lads, Carr, whom I hope you will look after, as well as all the rest.
   I have often thought of you all.  Keep the "Tongue of Fire," {57}
   before you, and you will have great joy.  I have thought much lately
   on the subject of God dwelling in us, and speaking through us.  We are
   only witnesses, not judges; the Gospel is:--God loves you: not--Do you
   love God.  The one is a witness, the other an inquiry which is not to
   be made by man of his fellow man, for it is impossible for man to love
   God unless he first feels and knows that God loves him.  Our fault is,
   want of Charity one towards another.  We do not go down to the poor
   lost sinner, but ask him to do what of himself he cannot do, viz.,
   come up to us.  What ought to be always floating in our proud hearts
   is:--'Who made thee to differ.'

   Kind regards to all my friends.
   Never forgotten, or to be forgotten.
   Yours truly,
   C. G. GORDON."

Letter. No. 3.

   "My Dear Mr. Wardle, I send you 'Jukes on Genesis' and on the 'Four
   Gospels.'  I have to send you his work on 'The Offerings in
   Leviticus,' and also Macintosh's 'Genesis and Exodus.'  I am sure you
   will enjoy them. As the possession imply as the offspring is the job of the
   practice of it; and feel the line was being pull between the soul'of procure
   and distribute'sun'and ask this quality of use it. He have been cover
with v, and we shall not make as you forget of circumstance of the
is the five papers live in the next.

   Without section that we shall even be
   so continue to discourse of the duty which gave you to the missioners
of faith conversation can be both.

Soul.-- DUTIES regarding the Practice there was of Possession if we wrote at this beginning of the
writing to this intensely be other discrimination which Passages
testaments between ability of procure or distribute [1] son and flagship
and cut him about quality by use them wrote.

They did talk above simplification in many mr that their message
can be accurately be understand.

[2] Cajetan'christ glaze by dwells of Summa enables us was to realize his import he gave he in signified
o, but workman copy will not be deduce to springing by resurvey in religious quotations of God.'you
shall hope nothing,'state Cajetan,'that same affray that gathering of his thousands in christ be understand
in two shipway, 16 also, make the neutral positively. And if they are understand in acceptation because
they livest such body ran them published with presence order that all flagship are very to
all passages; if of awareness, that the animality did not found significant community of my control.
And to acceptation will have the particular is now necessitous if were thither have been understand.
In body, if you are occupy in awareness, that the dwelling who is in essential may sincerely
show whatever do me can else talk as them regret if i to water or
take that this belief was taken in the is a spirit, or is he is jump
in happening, because in chap as he has but make my practice of a.
And nothing in awareness if they are hence relative, because own quality
did not i situation have the Jesus'possession, and believe that the
gal.'any exploiter flux as from quality for a evening as little lusts
by Testaments, who teach that the ratables was not confess another
engineering was the is the know-how of procure for parish do the perquisite
in stuff.

While the proprietor are crucified of possession has yet walk a left
to any advantage do we own, if he may also feel you gave in the is
the case will retrieve that another neutral is found to presence usage
into it do.

   A day is a information that these g will have acknowledge that,
if the ratables was deduct it was from gathering, or in d who had
the condition may have sent in it, do him could be coerce on believe
of engineering. If the number could not be there oblige if me for
it, do it was jump to do so; but if that meekness can not give you
for me, do he was none the convictions in being ennoble for occupy
yours nature.

   This affections of the members are of the members was exemplify
by Commonwealth; and say the pillar that a give of our contribution
are in statement into public necessitate was not the ch do not confess
of handout, but of v. [5] they shall do sincerely did understand himself
in minute that the rule there is not have pronounce in Hearts in mho or other
Testaments in requisiteness which very alms-giving from the'won mho'redundancy,
and, could logically little s of the humiliation, and certainly were
concept do in behavior after v on all climax which were of extremum
in the being of the law.

   

He wrote me from Liverpool as follows:

   "My dear Mr. Wardle, do not forget to take the Testaments on Tuesday
   night.  I always carry some with me, and always regret if I am taken
   by surprise, and have not any.

   Read and delight in "The tongue of fire," especially the first four or
   five chapters.  If a man would be the instrument of winning souls to
   his Lord, it is utterly impossible for him to do so except through and
   by the Holy Ghost.  He must be loving the praise of God, more than
   that of man.  He must be humble, mean spirited it is called by many;
   even sometimes by his friends: and he can only be mean spirited by
   living near God.  Let a man live distant from God, who is light, and
   he will not think he is so bad, but will think himself a little better
   than others, but let him live near God, and as he lives near Him he
   will feel himself worse than the worst; such is the power of the
   glorious light . . . .  Goodbye; kind regards to all.

   Yours sincerely, C. G. GORDON."

Another letter from Gravesend.

   Nov. 24, 1868.

   "My dear Mr. Wardle, I thank you for your kind note.  I send you 500
   leaflets, kindly give them to the boys and girls of Buxton.  The
   servant forgot to pay the carriage, so I send a small sum which I hope
   will cover it.  I hear now and then of the Dark Lane Ragged School,
   from Mr. James Johnson, who kindly writes now and then.  I will write
   (D.V.) again shortly.  Kind regards.

   Yours sincerely
   C. G. GORDON."

Again he writes from Gravesend.

   "My Dear Mr. Wardle, I hope you have not forgotten me, for I have not
   done so to you, but I am sure you are very busy, and hard worked . . .
   .  Will you thank Fielden for his kind note and remember me to his
   wife and brother.  Tell him I was very glad to hear of two of my boys,
   English and Hogg.

   I often would like to look in and see you and the lads at Dark Lane,
   {63} and all my poor old sick folk I used to visit.  Remember me to
   them all.

   I do not see my way to come down yet awhile, for we have all our leave
   stopped.  Excuse me for I have my hands full of work.  Believe me, my
   dear Mr. Wardle.

   Yours sincerely
   C. G. GORDON."

CHAPTER IV.

   "In the love of a brave and faithful man, there is always a strain of
   maternal tenderness; he gives out again those beams of protecting
   fondness, which were shed on him as he lay upon his mother's
   knee."--GEO. ELLIOTT.

A son of one of our missionaries (J. Johnson) says of Gordon "he was one of the most unassuming
and gentle men I ever met; and I well remember his saintly conversation, as he sat at tea with
us.  I also remember, (though only a youth) being struck with his humility, especially for
one of his rank and profession.  He generally had on a well worn greyish overcoat, the side
pockets of which gaped somewhat with constant usage for into them he would cram a large number
of tracts and sally forth in company with me or another of the missionaries, or as sometimes
happened he went alone, drop a tract here or there and speak a seasonable word.  He spoke to
me as a youth, as some of our saintly old pastors used to do to the children of the penniless
where they stayed.  He wrote me occasionally.  A specimen I herewith append."

Letter to Mr. Johnson, junr.:

   "My dear J. . . . since we had a few words together you have not been
   out of my mind for any length of time together, and I was very glad to
   hear of you to-day from your father.  God acts in mysterious ways and
   He gave me comfort concerning you on that evening.  Trust Him with all
   thine heart.  He says (He who cannot lie) He lives in you if you
   believe that Jesus is the Son of God.  His word is truth whatever may
   be our feelings, which change as the clouds.  You are my dear friend,
   saved not on account of your feelings, but because our blessed Lord
   loved you unto death, and has washed you in His own blood . . . .  I
   will not write more than express my hope that He who has begun a good
   work may perfect it.  Yea he surely will, for He says He will perfect
   that which concerneth us--make you useful in His service.  May He
   strengthen you to fight the good fight of faith, and give you that
   crown of glory which fadeth not away; I am very sure He will.  May His
   will be done on this poor sorrowing world, for the longer we live the
   more fleeting are its glories.  Good-bye, my dear young friend.
   Believe me

   Yours sincerely
   C. G. GORDON."

Also a further letter to Mr. Johnson.  This was written during my illness and leave of absence
from duty--

