"Number Six on the catalogue.  Genuine photograph of a Botticelli from the collection of Miss
Eva Dalgleish.  Attention, Freshers, if you please!  This is an item of serious importance.
The presence of a Botticelli bestows at once the air of culture and refinement without which
no study is worthy of the name.  A genuine photograph of a Botticelli, purchased by the owner
in the Italian city of Florence, and borne home by her own fair hands, as the crack across
the corner will give proof.  In an Oxford frame--a compliment to our sister University-- glazed
and complete, with hanging loops and fragment of wire.  What offers for the Botticelli?  Any
Fresher who wishes to prove herself endowed with refined and artistic--One shilling?  Thank
you, madam. And sixpence!  One and nine.  One and nine for this genuine Botticelli.  Ladies,
ladies, this is a sad day for Newnham.  And nine-- and nine.  Going.  Going--gone!"

It was Hannah who had testified to her own artistic qualities by purchasing this photograph.
She tucked it proudly under her arm, and turned an envious eye on a brass flower-pot which
was now engaging the auctioneer's attention.  A simultaneous movement of the audience showed
that this was an article on which many hopes had been set, and bidding promised to be brisk.

"Now, ladies, we come to one of the principal events of the evening, the bidding for this very
rich and magnificent brass, hand-beaten, richly- chased, Oriental, ornamental flower-pot. 
We have several flower-pots in our catalogue, but none to be compared for one moment to the
very superior article which you now see before you.  It is safe to say that no student, even
in her third year, can boast of a flower-pot to equal this lot in either quality or design.
The possession of it will in itself ensure fame for its fortunate owner.  Let me have a handsome
bid, if you please, ladies, to start this valuable article.  Half a crown!!! A lady, whose
ignorance we can only deplore, offers me half a crown for a genuine antique brass!  I am thankful
that in such a large and enlightened audience such an error is not likely to be repeated. 
Three shillings.  Thank you, madam.  And six.  Four shillings--four shillings.  Freshers who
neglect to take advantage of this opportunity will be compelled to content themselves with
one of these common china articles to my left.  A flowerpot is a necessary article of furniture
without which no room is complete.  What is home without an aspidistra? You laugh, ladies,
but you can find no answer to that question.  And six!  Five shillings!  The raw material for
this masterpiece must have cost many times this sum.  Five--five--no advance on five.  The
lady in green, Joshua.  Take the lady's address!"

The auctioneer put up her hand to her head and patted the rose-coloured ribbon into place.
Inspired by the laughing appreciation of her sallies, her cheeks had flushed to the same bright
shade, and with her sparkling eyes and alert, graceful movements she made a delightful and
attractive figure, at which the Freshers stared in undisguised delight.

"I adore her!" whispered Darsie in her friend's ear.

"Decent sort!" croaked Hannah the undemonstrative, and then by a common impulse their glance
passed on to rest on Helen Ross's set, supercilious face.

"I loathe her," came the second whisper.

"Mean thing--jealousy!" croaked Hannah once more, and turned her attention to the business in hand.

After the china flower-pots had been disposed of, a trio of basket- chairs gave an impetus
to the bidding, as the truth of the auctioneer's words went home to every heart.

"`Three luxurious basket-chairs, cushioned complete in handsome cretonne, stuffed pure wool.
Condition--as new.'  Ladies, in these basket-chairs you see not only elegant articles of furniture,
but a solution of the dilemma which dogs every owner of a one-comfortable- chair study.  One
question haunts her waking and sleeping hours; one problem embitters the most social occasions--`Shall
I be comfortable or polite?'  To this question, in this college of Newnham, there can, ladies,
be but one reply--and the wretched hostess sits on the coal-box and gives her visitor the chair.
After long hours of mental toil, after the physical strain of the hockey-field, a quiet hour
is vouchsafed beside her own fireside, with the companionship of a beloved friend to soothe
and cheer, and that hour, ladies--that precious hour--I say it with emotion almost too strong
for words--that stolen hour of peace and rest must needs be passed--on the coal-box!  Ladies,
I need say no more.  The remedy is in your own hands."

So on, and so on.  After the chairs came curtains; after the curtains, bookcases, ornaments,
and books.  The auction flowed on, punctuated by explosions of laughter, until the last item
on the "catalogue" was reached, and the auctioneer was crimson with exhaustion.

Darsie and Hannah had amassed between them quite a stock of furnishings. A screen apiece, chairs,
Oriental window-curtains in stripes of contrasting colours warm and comfortable to look upon,
flower-pots, and odd pictures and ornaments.  One felt a proprietor, indeed, as one looked
over the spoils, and the inroads into capital had been agreeably small.  Darsie was folding
up her damaged "spread" when a voice spoke in her ear, and with a little jump of the heart
she looked up to find Margaret France standing by her side.

"How do you do?  I must thank you for your patronage.  You chipped in nobly.  Hope you'll like
'em, when you've got 'em.  Just up, aren't you? What's your shop?"

For a moment Darsie stared blankly, then a flash of intuition revealed the meaning of the word.

"Modern languages."

"Good!  So'm I.  And your friend?"

"Mathematics."

"Humph!  Well, good luck!  I'm off to bed.  We shall meet on the Rialto!"

She smiled, nodded, and was gone.  With a sudden realisation of their own fatigue the Freshers
turned to follow her example.  Helen Ross joined them on their way along the corridors, and
Darsie could not resist expressing her appreciation of the auctioneer's wit.

"She was delicious.  I have enjoyed it.  She is amusing and clever."

"Think so?" said Helen coolly.  "Really?  Glad you were pleased.  It's usually far better than
that!"

With a curt good-night she turned into her own room, and the two friends made haste to follow
her example.

The banked-up fires burned warm and red; the scattered oddments had been hidden from sight
in the "coffin's" rapacious maw; photographs and knick-knacks gave a homy look to the rooms
which had looked so bare and bleak twenty-four hours before.  The Freshers tumbled into bed
and fell happily asleep.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

FIRST EXPERIENCES.

During the first month at Newnham Darsie and Hannah fell gradually and happily into the routine
of college life.  They grew to recognise their companions by name, and to place them according
to their several "shops"; they entertained cocoa parties in their rooms; picked up slang terms,
and talked condescendingly of "townees"; they paid up subscriptions to "Hall," "Games," "Flowers,"
and "Fic"; slept, played, and laughed and talked, and, above all, worked, with heart and mind,
and with every day that passed were more convinced that to be a student at Cambridge was the
most glorious fate that any girl could desire.

