    So it happened that neither we nor they had anything to eat but
    what the country afforded naturally. Yet of eighty who lived upon
    oysters in June or July, with a pint of corn a week for a man lying
    under trees, and one hundred twenty for the most part living upon
    sturgeon, which are dried till we pounded it to powder for meal,
    yet in ten weeks but seven died.

For once he paints a brighter picture:

    The next night, being lodged at Kecoughtan, six or seven days the
    extreme wind, rain, frost, and snow caused us to keep Christmas
    among the savages, where we were never more merry, nor fed on more
    plenty of good oysters, fish, flesh, wild fowl, and good bread.

He describes further ups and downs:

    Now we so quietly followed our business that in three months, we
    ... provided nets and weirs for fishing.

    Sixty or eighty with Ensign Laxon were sent down the river to live
    upon oysters, and twenty with Lieutenant Percy to try fishing at
    Point Comfort. But in six weeks, they would not agree once to cast
    out their net.

    We had more sturgeon than could be devoured by dog or man, of which
    the industrious by drying and pounding, mingled with caviar,
    sorrel, and other wholesome herbs, would make bread and good meat.

Despite the privations much food is available, Smith avers:

    In summer no place affords more plenty of sturgeon, nor in winter
    more abundance of fowl, especially in time of frost. There was once
    taken fifty-two sturgeon at a draught, at another draught
    sixty-eight. From the latter end of May till the end of June are
    taken few but young sturgeon of two foot or a yard long. From
    thence till the midst of September them of two or three yards long
    and a few others. And in four or five hours with one net were
    ordinarily taken seven or eight; often more, seldom less. In the
    small rivers all the year there is a good plenty of small fish, so
    that with hooks those that would take pains had sufficient....

    Of fish we were best acquainted with sturgeon, grampus, porpoise,
    seals, stingrays whose tails are very dangerous, brits, mullets,
    white salmon, trouts, soles, plaice, herring, conyfish, rockfish,
    eels, lampreys, catfish, shad, perch of three sorts, crabs,
    shrimps, crevises, oysters, cockles, and mussels. But the most
    strange fish is a small one so like the picture of St. George's
    dragon as possibly can be, except his legs and wings; and the
    toadfish which will swell till it be like to burst when it comes
    into the air.

When Smith spoke of sturgeon he was most probably referring to the James river, the best waters
for sturgeon in Virginia to this day. The "small rivers" were the fresh-water tributaries of
the large salty ones. The small fish to be found there which would take the hook in winter
were probably the non-migratory species like perch, catfish and suckers. If some of the names
Smith gives seem puzzling today, it should be remembered that often the same fish name has
applied throughout history to different fish at different times or in different areas. Contrariwise,
different names, in regional usage, may apply to the same fish. Thus it is virtually impossible
to say whether all the fish named by Colonial reporters are to be found in Virginia waters
today. For example, though no "white salmon" are known in Virginia, it is possible that Smith
referred to a fish that merely resembled a salmon without belonging to that family. On the
other hand, it is conceivable that Virginia boats caught "white salmon" in the Atlantic Ocean.
"Conyfish" can mean several different fishes, so that it is not possible to be sure what Smith
had in mind; so with "brit." "Crevise" is an older name for crawfish. Seals still make rare
appearances in the bay. As for the stingrays, he spoke from experience; he was spiked by one.
Almost all of his list are still being caught off Jamestown. The "St. George's dragon" or sea
horse, is among them.

There are many more varieties of fish caught by Virginia fishermen today than were ever mentioned
in Colonial records. This is due to superior gear and the more intensive use of it.

Captain Christopher Newport was among the earliest observers confirming Smith. He wrote in 1607:

    The main river [James] abounds with sturgeon, very large and
    excellent good, having also at the mouth of every brook and in
    every creek both store and exceedingly good fish of divers kinds.
    In the large sounds near the sea are multitudes of fish, banks of
    oysters, and many great crabs rather better, in fact, than ours and
    able to suffice four men. And within sight of land into the sea we
    expect at time of year to have a good fishing for cod, as both at
    our entering we might perceive by palpable conjectures, seeing the
    cod follow the ship ... as also out of my own experience not far
    off to the northward the fishing I found in my first voyage to
    Virginia....

    The commodities of the country, what they are in else, is not much
    to be regarded, the inhabitants having no concern with any nation,
    no respect of profit.... Yet this for the present, by the consent
    of all our seamen, merely fishing for sturgeon cannot be worth less
    than £1,000 a year, leaving herring and cod as possibilities....

    We have a good fishing for mussels which resemble mother-of-pearl,
    and if the pearl we have seen in the king's ears and about their
    necks come from these shells we know the banks.

The crab "able to suffice four men" could scarcely have been other than the horseshoe. It has
never been considered a delicacy.

It is usually by contraries that the truth is determined. Even in the midst of the apparent
plenty of fish, fishing crews sometimes came home empty-handed after continued effort. Often
storms interfered.

From personal experience John Smith was able to sound the warning about Chesapeake weather:

    Our mast and sail blew overboard and such mighty waves overraked us
    in that small barge that with great danger we kept her from sinking
    by freeing out the water.

    The winds are variable, but the like thunder and lightning to
    purify the air I have seldom either seen or heard in Europe.

As if struck by the helplessness of the settlers, a compassionate chief extended aid to them
in 1608. A letter from Francis Perkins tells the story:

    So excessive are the frosts that one night the river froze over
    almost from bank to bank in front of our harbour, although it was
    there as wide as that of London. There died from the frost some
    fish in the river, which when taken out after the frost was over,
    were very good and so fat that they could be fried in their own fat
    without adding any butter or such thing....

    Their own great emperor or the wuarravance, which is the name of
    their kings, has sent some of his people that they may teach us how
    to sow the grain of this country and to make certain traps with
    which they are going to fish.

A letter from the Council in Virginia to the Virginia Company in London in 1610 shows that
such favors were returned:

    Whilst we were fishing divers Indians came down from the woods unto
    us and ... I gave unto them such fish as we took ... for indeed at
    this time of the year [July] they live poor, their corn being but
    newly put into the ground and their own store spent. Oysters and
    crabs and such fish as they take in their weirs is their best
    relief.

Oysters occurred in vast banks and shoals within sight of the Jamestown fort. During the 1609-10
"starving time" a minimum force was retained at the settlement while everyone else was turned
out to forage as best he could. Most sought the oyster grounds where they ate oysters nine
weeks, a diet varied only by a pitifully negligible allowance of corn meal. In the words of
one of the foragers, "this kind of feeding caused all our skin to peel off from head to foot
as if we had been dead." The arrival of supplies ended the ordeal. But soon hunger descended
again and the oyster beds would have been the natural recourse if it had not been winter and
the water too cold to wade in. So the oysters were no help.

That conscientious reporter, William Strachey, wrote in 1610:

    In this desolation and misery our Governor found the condition and
    state of the Colony. Nor was there at the fort, as they whom we
    found related unto us, any means to take fish; neither sufficient
    seine, nor other convenient net, and yet of their need, there was
    not one eye of sturgeon yet come into the river.

    The river which was wont before this time of the year to be
    plentiful of sturgeon had not now a fish to be seen in it, and
    albeit we laboured and hauled our net twenty times day and night,
    yet we took not so much as would content half the fishermen. Our
    Governor therefore, sent away his long boat to coast the river
    downward as far as Point Comfort, and from thence to Cape Henry and
    Cape Charles, and all within the bay, which after a seven nights
    trial and travail, returned without any fruits of their labours,
    scarce getting so much fish as served their own company.

    And, likewise, because at the Lord Governor and Captain General's
    first coming, there was found in our own river no store of fish
    after many trials, the Lord Governor and Captain General dispatched
    in the Virginia, with instructions, the seventeenth of June,
    1610, Robert Tyndall, master of the De la Warre, to fish unto,
    all along, and between Cape Henry and Cape Charles within the
    bay.... Nor was the Lord Governor and Captain General in the
    meanwhile idle at the fort, but every day and night he caused the
    nets to be hauled, sometimes a dozen times one after another. But
    it pleased not God so to bless our labours that we did at any time
    take one quarter so much as would give unto our people one pound at
    a meal apiece, by which we might have better husbanded our peas and
    oatmeal, notwithstanding the great store we now saw daily in our
    river. But let the blame of this lie where it is, both upon our
    nets and the unskilfulness of our men to lay them.

The matter of sturgeon was of prime importance not only for subsistence but for export, particularly
of the roe. Caviar was in great demand in England. But with uncertainty as to when the sturgeon
would appear in the river, plus hot weather, plus feeble facilities, the growth of the industry
was impeded. When tobacco, first commercially grown by John Rolfe, appeared on the scene in
1612 and proved to be a sure money maker, the export of sturgeon products came to a standstill.
It was having hard going anyway. Complaints from England regarding quality were familiar enough.
According to Lord De La Warr in 1610, on the subject, "Virginia Commodities":

    Sturgeon which was last sent came ill-conditioned, not being well
    boiled. If it were cut in small pieces and powdered, put up in
    cask, the heads pickled by themselves, and sent here, it would do
    far better.

    Roes of the said sturgeon make caviar according to instructions
    formerly given. Sounds of the said sturgeon will make isinglass
    according to the same instructions. Isinglass is worth here 13s.
    4d. per 100 pounds, and caviar well conditioned is worth £40 per
    100.

Other instances stressed the undependable fishing. Lord De La Warr wrote to the Earl of Salisbury
in England in 1610: "I sent fishermen out to provide fish for our men, to save other provision,
but they had ill success."

Captain Samuel Argall was specially commissioned by the authorities in England to deep-sea
fish for the benefit of the Colony. After ranging over a wide area between Bermuda and Canada,
he reported in 1610:

    ... The weather continuing very foggy, thick, and rainy, about five
    of the clock it began to cease and then we began to fish and so
    continued until seven of the clock in between thirty and forty
    fathoms, and then we could fish no longer. So having gotten between
    twenty and thirty cods we left for that night, and at five of the
    clock, the 26th, in the morning we began to fish again and so
    continued until ten of the clock, and then it would fish no longer,
    in which time we had taken near one hundred cods and a couple of
    halibuts....

    Then I tried whether there were any fish there or not [off Maine
    coast], and I found reasonable good store there. So I stayed there
    fishing till the 12th of August, [1610] and then finding that the
    fishing did fail, I thought good to return to the island
    [Jamestown]....

Captain Argall also offered his opinion of the usefulness of the islands off Virginia's seacoast
peninsula, later known as the Eastern Shore:

    Salt might easily be made there, if there were any ponds digged,
    for that I found salt kernel where the water had overflowed in
    certain places. Here also is great store of fish, both shellfish
    and others.

The root of the trouble, so far as local fishing conditions were concerned, was the lack of
adequate equipment together with ignorance of its proper use. Perhaps the ease with which fish
were caught at certain times had spoiled the hardy settlers.

A low opinion of their attitude in this vital pursuit came from Sir Thomas Gates in 1610:

    A colony is therefore denominated because they should be coloni,
    the tillers of the earth and stewards of fertility. Our mutinous
    loiterers would not sow with providence and therefore they reaped
    the fruits of far too dear bought repentance. An incredible example
    of their idleness is the report of Sir Thomas Gates who affirms
    that after his first coming thither he had seen some of them eat
    their fish raw rather than they would go a stone's cast to fetch
    wood and dress it.

    Joined unto these another evil: There is great store of fish in the
    river, especially of sturgeon, but our men provided no more of them
    than present necessity, not barreling up any store against the
    season [when] the sturgeon returned to the sea. And not to
    dissemble their folly, they suffered fourteen nets, which was all
    they had, to rot and spoil, which by orderly drying and mending
    might have been preserved but being lost, all help of fishing
    perished.

Very few of them had come equipped for fishing. Their seines were as old-fashioned as those
used by the Apostles in the New Testament, the simple kind you lowered from a boat and dragged
ashore. The Indians had taught them how to spear large fish and erect weirs out of stakes and
brushwood to entrap migrating schools. Such methods worked well enough during the season. But
in cold weather, when provisions ran low, scarcely any fish were present in the bay proper.

It was different in New England and Canada. There the fishing was good the year round. The
sea bottom was dragged by efficient trawl-nets, and fished with gang-lines of baited hooks,
as it still is today. The cool temperatures over many months of the year made the catches much
less perishable. Conditions favored an organized fish-salting industry.

Though the Jamestown people had easy access to some 3,000 square miles of inland tidal water
and were only a little way from the open sea, they never developed their marine riches. One
good reason was that their original aims were in other directions. When the first intentions
to colonize New England came to the King's notice, he asked the leaders what drew them there.
The one-word answer: "Fishing." If the Virginians had been similarly queried they would have
given various replies, but certainly not that one.

The need for fishermen in Virginia was officially recognized to only a slight degree. A 1610
memorandum from the Virginia Council to the authorities in London asked that an effort be made
to include among the next immigrants 20 fishermen and 6 net makers. Select them with care was
the word sent out in England by means of a broadside issued by the Council of Virginia, December,
1610:

    Whereas the good ship called the Hercules is now preparing and
    almost in a readiness with necessary provisions to make a supply to
    the Lord Governor and the Colony in Virginia, it is thought meet,
    for the avoiding of such vagrant and unnecessary persons as do
    commonly proffer themselves being altogether unserviceable, that
    none but honest sufficient artificers, as carpenters, smiths,
    coopers, fishermen, brickmen, and such like, shall be entertained
    into this voyage. Of whom so many as will in due time repair to the
    house of Sir Thomas Smith in Philpot Lane, with sufficient
    testimony to their skill and good behavior, they shall receive
    entertainment accordingly.

It was only a question of time before the Virginia colonists would, though surrounded all the
while by their own huge marine resources, subsist on salt fish from the North. Sir Thomas Dale,
governor from 1611 to 1616, perceived the trend. One of his first moves was to ask the President
of the Virginia Company to provide men trained enough to build a coastal trade in furs, corn
and fish:

    Let me intreat that we may have both an admiral and hired mariners,
    to be all times resident here. The benefit will quickly make good
    the charge as well by a trade of furs to be obtained with the
    savages in the northern rivers to be returned home as also to
    furnish us here with corn and fish. The waste of such men all this
    time whom we might trust with our pinnaces leaves us destitute this
    season of so great a quantity of fish as not far from our own bay
    would sufficiently satisfy the whole Colony for a whole year.

There were no boats available even for simple oystering. During the term of the stringent Governor
Dale some disaffected colonists tried to escape in a shallop and a barge, which were "all the
boats that were then in the Colony."

Ironically punctuating the sagas of hardship were the marveling descriptions publicized in
England. Corroborating the mouth-watering tales of Smith, William Strachey wrote in 1612:

    To the natural commodities which the country has of fruit, beasts,
    and fowl, we may also add the no mean commodity of fish, of which,
    in March and April, are great shoals of herrings, sturgeon, great
    store commonly in May if the year be forward. I have been at the
    taking of some before Algernoone fort and in Southampton river in
    the middle of March, and they remain with us June, July, and August
    and in that plenty as before expressed.

    Shad, great store, of a yard long and for sweetness and fatness a
    reasonable food fish; he is only full of small bones, like our
    barbels in England. There is the garfish, some of which are a yard
    long, small and round like an eel and as big as a mare's leg,
    having a long snout full of sharp teeth.

    Oysters there be in whole banks and beds, and those of the best. I
    have seen some thirteen inches long. The savages use to boil
    oysters and mussels together and with the broth they make a good
    spoon meat, thickened with the flour of their wheat and it is a
    great thrift and husbandry with them to hang the oysters upon
    strings ... and dried in the smoke, thereby to preserve them all
    the year.

    There be two sorts of sea crabs. One our people call a king crab
    and they are taken in shoal waters from off the shore a dozen at a
    time hanging one upon another's tail; they are of a foot in length
    and half a foot in breadth, having legs and a long tail. The
    Indians seldom eat of this kind. There is a shellfish of the
    proportion of a cockle but far greater [conch]. It has a smooth
    shell, not ragged as our cockles; 'tis good meat though somewhat
    tough.

And, according to Alexander Whitaker in 1613:

    The rivers abound with fish both small and great. The sea-fish come
    into our rivers in March and continue the end of September. Great
    schools of herrings come in first; shads of a great bigness and the
    rockfish follow them. Trout, bass, flounders, and other dainty fish
    come in before the others be gone. Then come multitudes of great
    sturgeons, whereof we catch many and should do more, but that we
    want good nets answerable to the breadth and depth of our rivers.
    Besides our channels are so foul in the bottom with great logs and
    trees that we often break our nets upon them. I cannot reckon nor
    give proper names to the divers kinds of fresh fish in our rivers.
    I have caught with mine angle, carp, pike, eel, perches of six
    several kinds, crayfish and the torope or little turtle, besides
    many small kinds.

When Whitaker penned the word "torope," he was giving the English-speaking world a new term,
new because the animal it defined was unknown in Europe. Later spelled "terrapin," it meant
the diamond-back, the esoteric little creature that spread the fame of the Chesapeake bay around
the world and became an indispensable course on menus designed for the entertainment of royalty
and the discriminating elect. The colonists probably ate it prepared Indian fashion, that is,
roasted whole in live coals and opened at table where the savory meat was extracted by appreciative
fingers. Over generations of terrapin-fanciers it evolved into one of the stars of the gastronomic
firmament. It is a wholly American dish and it was born at Jamestown.

Contemporary Historian Ralph Hamor added his testimony in 1614:

    For fish, the rivers are plentifully stored with sturgeon, porpoise,
    bass, rockfish, carp, shad, herring, eel, catfish, perch, flat-fish,
    trout, sheepshead, drummers, jewfish, crevises, crabs, oysters, and
    divers other kinds. Of all which myself has seen great quantity
    taken, especially the last summer at Smith's Island at one haul a
    frigate's lading of sturgeon, bass, and other great fish in Captain
    Argall's seine, and even at the very place which is not above
    fifteen miles from Point Comfort. If we had been furnished with
    salt to have saved it, we might have taken as much fish as would
    have served us that whole year.

The mention of carp will interest those who believe carp to have been introduced into Virginia
much later. The jewfish is common in more southern waters but there may well have been some
strays in the Chesapeake. Although croakers, one of the bay's most abundant fish in modern
times, are not mentioned, it would not be unreasonable to assume that they were included under
"drummers." So with spot, a member of the drum family bearing a superficial resemblance to
a bass or perch. The term "spot," as applied to a Virginia fish does not seem to have become
current till the late 19th century.

An event of special interest to statisticians occurred in 1612. The first attempt made in the
New World to require certain fish catches to be reported was among the regulations propounded
by Governor Thomas Dale. The penalty for violation would shock today's delinquent record keepers:

    All fishermen, dressers of sturgeon, or such like appointed to fish
    or to cure the said sturgeon for the use of the Colony, shall give
    a just and true account of all such fish as they shall take by day
    or night, of whatsoever kind, the same to bring unto the Governor.
    As also all such kegs of sturgeon or caviar as they shall prepare
    and cure upon peril for the first time offending herein of losing
    his ears, and for the second time to be condemned a year to the
    galleys, and for the third time offending to be condemned to the
    galleys for three years.

The years of trial and error fishing had brought their return in increased knowledge, according
to John Rolfe in 1616:

    About two years since, Sir Thomas Dale ... found out two seasons in
    the year to catch fish, namely, the spring and the fall. He himself
    took no small pains in the trial and at one haul with a seine
    caught five thousand three hundred of them, as big as cod. The
    least of the residue or kind of salmon trout, two foot long, yet he
    durst not adventure on the main school for breaking his net.
    Likewise, two men with axes and such like weapons have taken and
    killed near the shore and brought home forty [fish] as great as cod
    in two or three hours space....

There was a hint that the Virginia Company was interfering with free ocean fishing by claiming
all the land to Newfoundland,--not that it was getting much out of it. One complaint as published
in London sometime before February 22, 1615, in the anonymous tract, The Trades Increase, read:

    The Virginia Company pretend almost all that main twixt it and
    Newfoundland to be their fee-simple, whereby many honest and able
    minds, disposed to adventure, are hindered and stopped from
    repairing to those places that they either know or would discover,
    even for fishing.

As a matter of fact, there was continuous wrangling in London over the fishing rights off the
entire coast administered by the Virginia Company. The proposed settlers of the Northern Colony
in New England had fishing uppermost in their minds and would have been glad to exclude fishermen
coming from the Southern Colony. Minutes of meetings of the Company reveal how earnest was
the struggle:

    December 1, 1619. The last great general court being read, Mr.
    Treasurer acquainted them that Mr. John Delbridge, purposing to
    settle a particular colony in Virginia, desired of the Company that
    for defraying some part of his charge he might be admitted to fish
    at Cape Cod. Which request was opposed by Sir Ferdinando Gorges,
    alleging that he always favored Mr. Delbridge but in this he
    thought himself something touched that he should sue to this
    Company and not rather to him as the matter properly belonged to
    the Northern Colony to give liberty for fishing in that place, it
    lying within their latitude. This was answered by Mr. Treasurer
    that the Companies of the South and North Plantations are free of
    one another and that the patent is clear that each may fish within
    the territory of the other, the sea being free for both. If the
    Northern Company abridged them of this, they would take away their
    means and encouragement for sending out men. To which Sir
    Ferdinando Gorges replied that if he was not mistaken both the
    Companies were limited by the patents unto which he would submit.
    For the deciding whereof it is referred to the Council, who are of
    both Companies, to examine the patents tomorrow afternoon at the
    Lord Southampton's and accordingly to determine the dispute.

Two weeks later the Council gave its decision: Either Colony could fish within the bounds of
the other. But this was by no means an end to the matter. The Northern Colony requested a new
patent to resolve the disputes. With suggestions and counter-suggestions, the debate dragged
on through the spring, summer and fall. About the time the Northern Colony had arranged to
exclude the Southern Colony from free fishing, the King stepped in, declaring that "if anything
were passed in the New England patent that might be prejudicial to the Southern Colony it was
done without his knowledge and that he has been abused thereby by those that pretended otherwise
to him." Finally, after a year-and-a-half of cross-purposes, agreement was reached:

    June 18, 1621. There was a petition exhibited unto His Majesty in
    the name of the patentees and adventurers in the plantation of New
    England concerning some difference between the Southern and
    Northern Colonies, the said petition was by His Majesty referred to
    the consideration of the Lords. Their Lordships, upon the hearing
    and debating of the matter at large and by the consent of both
    Colonies, did establish and confirm two former orders, the one
    bearing date of the 16th of March 1620, agreed upon by the Duke of
    Lenox and the Earl of Arundell; the other of the 21st of July 1620
    ordered by the Board whereby it was thought fit that the said
    colonies should fish at sea within the limits and bounds of each
    other reciprocally, with this limitation that it be only for the
    sustentation of the people of the Colonies there and for the
    transportation of people into either Colony. Further it was ordered
    at this time by their Lordships that they should have freedom of
    the shore for drying of their nets and taking and saving of their
    fish and to have wood for their necessary uses, by the assignment
    of the Governors at reasonable rates. Lastly the patent of the
    Northern Colony shall be renewed according to the premises, and
    those of the Southern plantation to have a sight thereof before it
    be engrossed and the former patent to be delivered into the hand of
    the patentees.

In an effort to encourage Virginians to salt their own fish, an order from London recommended
the reopening of the old sea-water-evaporators on Smith's island, off Cape Charles, where salt
had been produced in the first days. The Virginia Company advised the Governor and Council in 1620:

    The last commodity, but not of least importance for health, is
    SALT: the works whereof having been lately suffered to decay; we
    now intending to restore in so great plenty, as not only to serve
    the Colony for the present, but as is hoped, in short time, the
    great fishings on those coasts, a matter of inestimable advancement
    to the Colony, do upon mature deliberation ordain as followeth:
    First, that you the Governor and Council, do chose out of the
    tenants for the Company, 20 fit persons to be employed in salt
    works, which are to be renewed in Smith's Island, where they were
    before; as also in taking of fish there, for the use of the Colony,
    as in former times was also done. These 20 shall be furnished out
    at the first, at the charges of the Company, with all implements
    and instruments necessary for those works. They shall have also
    assigned to each of them for their occupation or use, 50 acres of
    land within the island, to be land of the Company. The one moiety
    of salt, fish, and profits of the land shall be for the tenants,
    the other for us the Company, to be delivered into our store: and
    this contract shall be continued for five years.

The reply of Secretary of the Colony, John Pory, was something less than complacent:

    The last commodity spoken of in your charter is salt; the works
    whereof, we do much marvel, you would have restored to their former
    use; whereas I will undertake in one day to make as much salt by
    the heat of the sun, after the manner used in France, Spain, and
    Italy, as can be made in a year by that toilsome and erroneous way
    of boiling sea water into salt in kettles as our people at Smith's
    Island hitherto accustomed. And therefore when you enter into this
    work, you must send men skillful in salt ponds, such as you may
    easily procure from Rochell, and if you can have none there, yet
    some will be found in Lymington, and in many other places in
    England. And this indeed in a short time might prove a real work of
    great sustenance to the Colony at home, as of gain abroad, here
    being such schools of excellent fish, as ought rather to be admired
    of such as have not seen the same, than credited. Whereas the
    Company do give their tenants fifty acres upon Smith's Island some
    there are that smile at it here, saying there is no ground in all
    the whole island worth the manuring.

Following this exchange, attempts at salt making, especially on the Eastern Shore where the
waters were saltiest, were renewed. John Rolfe reported in 1621:

    At Dale's Gift, being upon the sea near unto Cape Charles, about
    thirty miles from Kecoughtan, are seventeen inhabitants under
    command of Lieutenant Cradock. All these are fed and maintained by
    the Colony. Their labor is to make salt and catch fish....

Secretary Pory soon expressed his disagreement with the project in more than words and succeeded
in effecting the removal of the salt works to a more convenient location. That this hardly
fulfilled expectations is evidenced by a letter written in 1628 to the King by the Governor
and Council:

    Great likeliness of the certainty of bay salt, the benefit that
    will thereby accrue to the Colony will be great, and they shall
    willingly assist Mr. Capps in making his experiment, which, brought
    to perfection, will draw a certain trade to them. And they hope
    that the fishing upon their coasts will be very near as good as
    Canada.

Mr. Capps, a citizen of Accomack, had proposed that if the Colony would subsidize him he would
undertake to supply it with salt from evaporated sea water. His offer was accepted and the
enterprise set up. After waiting patiently and seeing little salt the Council took him to task.
His plea was the familiar one of most operations that fail: lack of capital. He had worked
hard, he said; he had all the firewood he needed, workmen were available, and the sun shone
bright. The bottle-neck was too few evaporating pans. But apparently he had not won the Council's
confidence. The Capps salt company was dissolved.

Another one sprang up about 30 years later under the sponsorship of Colonel Edmund Scarborough
of Northampton County. Such was the public interest aroused by this influential man, who, among
other distinctions, had been a Burgess between 1642 and 1659, that the importation of salt
into the county was prohibited to encourage him. Finally, in 1666, this project was abandoned
for reasons that remain obscure. Most probably the quality of the product was inferior.

The salt shortage continued despite other random attempts to alleviate it. For example, in
1660 one Daniel Dawen of Accomack was exempted from taxes and granted public funds for his
"experiments of salt."

The trouble that attended obtaining salt in needed quantity and of satisfactory quality accompanied
the development of Virginia right up to George Washington's time.

