"Do not disparage my congregation," said Mr Armstrong, laughing; "they are friendly and neighbourly,
if not important in point of numbers; and, if I wanted to fill my church, the Roman Catholics
think so well of me, that they'd flock in crowds there if I asked them; and the priest would
show them the way--for any special occasion, I mean; if the bishop came to see me, or anything
of that kind."

Mr O'Joscelyn was struck dumb; and, indeed, he would have had no time to answer if the power
of speech had been left to him, for the servant announced dinner.

The conversation was a little more general during dinner-time, but after dinner the parish
clergyman returned to another branch of his favourite subject. Perhaps, he thought that Mr
Armstrong was himself not very orthodox; or, perhaps, that it was useless to enlarge on the
abominations of Babylon to a Protestant peer and a Protestant parson; but, on this occasion,
he occupied himself with the temporal iniquities of the Roman Catholics. The trial of O'Connell
and his fellow-prisoners had come to an end, and he and they, with one exception, had just.
commenced their period of imprisonment. The one exception was a clergyman, who had been acquitted.
He had in some way been connected with Mr O'Joscelyn's parish; and, as the parish priest and
most of his flock were hot Repealers, there was a good deal of excitement on the occasion,--rejoicings
at the priest's acquittal, and howlings, yellings, and murmurings at the condemnation of the
others.

"We've fallen on frightful days, Mr Armstrong," said Mr O'Joscelyn: "frightful, lawless, dangerous
days."

"We must take them as we find them, Mr O'Joscelyn."

"Doubtless, Mr Armstrong, doubtless; and I acknowledge His infinite wisdom, who, for His own
purposes, now allows sedition to rear her head unchecked, and falsehood to sit in the high
places. They are indeed dangerous days, when the sympathy of government is always with the
evil doers, and the religion of the state is deserted by the crown."

"Why, God bless me! Mr O'Joscelyn!--the queen hasn't turned Papist, and the Repealers are all
in prison, or soon will be there."

"I don't mean the queen. I believe she is very good. I believe she is a sincere Protestant,
God bless her;" and Mr O'Joscelyn, in his loyalty, drank a glass of port wine; "but I mean
her advisers. They do not dare protect the Protestant faith: they do not dare secure the tranquillity
of the country."

"Are not O'Connell and the whole set under conviction at this moment? I'm no politician myself,
but the only question seems to be, whether they haven't gone a step too far?"

"Why did they let that priest escape them?" said Mr O'Joscelyn.

"I suppose he was not guilty;" said Mr Armstrong; "at any rate, you had a staunch Protestant jury."

"I tell you the priests are at the head of it all. O'Connell would be nothing without them;
he is only their creature. The truth is, the government did not dare to frame an indictment
that would really lead to the punishment of a priest. The government is truckling to the false
hierarchy of Rome. Look at Oxford,--a Jesuitical seminary, devoted to the secret propagation
of Romish falsehood.--Go into the churches of England, and watch their bowings, their genuflexions,
their crosses and their candles; see the demeanour of their apostate clergy; look into their
private oratories; see their red-lettered prayer-books, their crucifixes, and images; and then,
can you doubt that the most dreadful of all prophecies is about to be accomplished?"

"But I have not been into their closets, Mr O'Joscelyn, nor yet into their churches lately,
and therefore I have not seen these things; nor have I seen anybody who has. Have you seen
crucifixes in the rooms of Church of England clergymen? or candles on the altar-steps of English
churches?"

"God forbid that I should willingly go where such things are to be seen; but of the fearful
fact there is, unfortunately, no doubt. And then, as to the state of the country, we have nothing
round us but anarchy and misrule: my life, Mr Armstrong, has not been safe any day this week past."

"Good Heaven, Mr O'Joscelyn--your life not safe! I thought you were as quiet here, in Kildare,
as we are in Mayo."

"Wait till I tell you, Mr Armstrong: you know this priest, whom they have let loose to utter
more sedition?--He was coadjutor to the priest in this parish."

"Was he? The people are not attacking you, I suppose, because he's let loose?"

"Wait till I tell you. No; the people are mad because O'Connell and his myrmidons are to be
locked up; and, mingled with their fury on this head are their insane rejoicings at the escape
of this priest. They are, therefore,--or were, till Saturday last, howling for joy and for
grief at the same time. Oh! such horrid howls, Mr Armstrong. I declare, Mr Armstrong, I have
trembled for my children this week past."

The earl, who well knew Mr O'Joscelyn, and the nature of his grievances, had heard all these
atrocities before; and, not being very excited by their interest, had continued sipping his
claret in silence till he began to doze; and, by the time the worthy parson had got to the
climax of his misery, the nobleman was fast asleep.

"You don't mean that the people made any attack on the parsonage?" said Mr Armstrong.

"Wait till I tell you, Mr Armstrong," replied the other. "On Thursday morning last they all
heard that O'Connell was a convicted felon."

"Conspirator, I believe? Mr O'Joscelyn."

"Conspiracy is felony, Mr Armstrong--and that their priest had been let loose. It was soon
evident that no work was to be done that day. They assembled about the roads in groups; at
the chapel-door; at Priest Flannery's house; at the teetotal reading-room as they call it,
where the people drink cordial made of whiskey, and disturb the neighbourhood with cracked
horns; and we heard that a public demonstration was to be made."

"Was it a demonstration of joy or of grief?"

"Both, Mr Armstrong! it was mixed. They were to shout and dance for joy about Father Tyrrel;
and howl and curse for grief about O'Connell; and they did shout and howl with a vengeance.
All Thursday, you would have thought that a legion of devils had been let loose into Kilcullen."

"But did they commit any personal outrages, Mr O'Joscelyn?"

"Wait till I tell you. I soon saw how the case was going to be, and I determined to be prepared.
I armed myself, Mr Armstrong; and so did Mrs O'Joscelyn. Mrs O'Joscelyn is a most determined
woman--a woman of great spirit; we were resolved to protect our daughters and our infants from
ill-usage, as long as God should leave us the power to do so. We both armed ourselves with
pistols, and I can assure you that, as far as ammunition goes, we were prepared to give them
a hot reception."

"Dear me! This must have been very unpleasant to Mrs O'Joscelyn."

"Oh, she's a woman of great nerve, Mr Armstrong. Mary is a woman of very great nerve. I can
assure you we shall never forget that Thursday night. About seven in the evening it got darkish,
but the horrid yells of the wild creatures had never ceased for one half-hour; and, a little
after seven, twenty different bonfires illuminated the parish. There were bonfires on every
side of us: huge masses of blazing turf were to be seen scattered through the whole country."

"Did they burn any thing except the turf, Mr O'Joscelyn?"

"Wait till I tell you, Mr Armstrong. I shall never forget that night; we neither of us once
lay down; no, not for a moment. About eight, the children were put to bed; but with their clothes
and shoes on, for there was no knowing at what moment and in how sudden a way the poor innocents
might be called up. My daughters behaved admirably; they remained quite quiet in the drawing-room
till about eleven, when we had evening worship, and then they retired to rest. Their mother,
however, insisted that they should not take off their petticoats or stockings. At about one,
we went to the hall-door: it was then bright moonlight--but the flames of the surrounding turf
overpowered the moon. The whole horizon was one glare of light."

"But were not the police about, Mr O'Joscelyn?"

"Oh, they were about, to be sure, poor men; but what could they do? The government now licenses
every outrage."

"But what did the people do?" said Mr Armstrong.

"Wait till I tell you. They remained up all night; and so did we, you may be sure. Mary did
not rise from her chair once that night without a pistol in her hand. We heard the sounds of
their voices continually, close to the parsonage gate; we could see them in the road, from
the windows--crowds of them--men, women and children; and still they continued shouting. The
next morning they were a little more quiet, but still the parish was disturbed: nobody was
at work, and men and women stood collected together in the roads. But as soon as it was dusk,
the shoutings and the bonfires began again; and again did I and Mrs O'Joscelyn prepare for
a night of anxious watching. We sat up all Friday night, Mr Armstrong."

"With the pistols again?"

"Indeed we did; and lucky for us that we did so. Had they not known that we were prepared,
I am convinced the house would have been attacked. Our daughters sat with us this night, and
we were so far used to the state of disturbance, that we were able to have a little supper."

"You must have wanted that, I think."

"Indeed we did. About four in the morning, I dropped asleep on the sofa; but Mary never closed
her eyes."

"Did they come into the garden at all, or near the house?"

"No, they did not. And I am very thankful they refrained from doing so, for I determined to
act promptly, Mr Armstrong, and so was Mary--that is, Mrs O'Joscelyn. We were both determined
to fire, if we found our premises invaded. Thank God the miscreants did not come within the gate."

"You did not suffer much, then, except the anxiety, Mr O'Joscelyn?"

"God was very merciful, and protected us; but who can feel safe, living in such times, and
among such a people? And it all springs from Rome; the scarlet woman is now in her full power,
and in her full deformity. She was smitten down for a while, but has now risen again. For a
while the right foot of truth was on her neck; for a while she lay prostrated before the strength
of those, who by God's grace, had prevailed against her. But the latter prophecies which had
been revealed to us, are now about to be accomplished. It is well for those who comprehend
the signs of the coming time."

"Suppose we join the ladies," said the earl, awakened by the sudden lull in Mr O'Joscelyn's
voice. "But won't you take a glass of Madeira first, Mr Armstrong?"

Mr Armstrong took his glass of Madeira, and then went to the ladies; and the next morning,
left Grey Abbey, for his own parish. Well; thought he to himself, as he was driven through
the park, in the earl's gig, I'm very glad I came here, for Frank's sake. I've smoothed his
way to matrimony and a fortune. But I don't know anything which would induce me to stay a week
at Grey Abbey. The earl is bad--nearly unbearable; but the parson!--I'd sooner by half be a
Roman myself, than think so badly of my neighbours as he does. Many a time since has he told
in Connaught, how Mr O'Joscelyn. and Mary, his wife, sat up two nights running, armed to the
teeth, to protect themselves from the noisy Repealers of Kilcullen.

Mr Armstrong arrived safely at his parsonage, and the next morning he rode over to Kelly's
Court. But Lord Ballindine was not there. He had started for Grey Abbey almost immediately
on receiving the two letters which we have given, and he and his friend had passed each other
on the road.

XXXIX.  IT NEVER RAINS BUT IT POURS

When Frank had read his two letters from Grey Abbey, he was in such a state of excitement as
to be unable properly to decide what he would immediately do. His first idea was to gallop
to Tuam, as fast as his best horse would carry him; to take four horses there, and not to stop
one moment till he found himself at Grey Abbey: but a little consideration showed him that
this would not do. He would not find horses ready for him on the road; he must take some clothes
with him; and it would be only becoming in him to give the earl some notice of his approach.
So he at last made up his mind to postpone his departure for a few hours.

He was, however, too much overcome with joy to be able to do anything rationally. His anger
against the earl totally evaporated; indeed, he only thought of him now as a man who had a
house in which he could meet his love. He rushed into the drawing-room, where his mother and
sisters were sitting, and, with the two letters open in his hand, proclaimed his intention
of leaving home that day.

"Goodness gracious, Frank! and where are you going?" said Mrs O'Kelly.

"To Grey Abbey."

"No!" said Augusta, jumping up from her chair.

"I am so glad!" shouted Sophy, throwing down her portion of the worsted-work sofa.

"You have made up your difference, then, with Miss Wyndham?" said the anxious mother. "I am
so glad! My own dear, good, sensible Frank!"

"I never had any difference with Fanny," said he. "I was not able to explain all about it,
nor can I now: it was a crotchet of the earl's--only some nonsense; however, I'm off now--I
can't wait a day, for I mean to write to say I shall be at Grey Abbey the day after to-morrow,
and I must go by Dublin. I shall be off in a couple of hours; so, for Heaven's sake, Sophy,
look sharp and put up my things."

The girls both bustled out of the room, and Frank was following them, but his mother called
him back. "When is it to be, Frank? Come tell me something about it. I never asked any questions
when I thought the subject was a painful one."

"God bless you, mother, you never did. But I can tell you nothing--only the stupid old earl
has begged me to go there at once. Fanny must settle the time herself: there'll be settlements,
and lawyer's work."

"That's true, my love. A hundred thousand pounds in ready cash does want looking after. But
look here, my dear; Fanny is of age, isn't she?"

"She is, mother."

"Well now, Frank, take my advice; they'll want to tie up her money in all manner of ways, so
as to make it of the least possible use to you, or to her either. They always do; they're never
contented unless they lock up a girl's money, so that neither she nor her husband can spend
the principal or the interest. Don't let them do it, Frank. Of course she will be led by you,
let them settle whatever is fair on her; but don't let them bother the money so that you can't
pay off the debts. It'll be a grand thing, Frank, to redeem the property."

Frank hemmed and hawed, and said he'd consult his lawyer in Dublin before the settlements were
signed; but declared that he was not going to marry Fanny Wyndham for her money.

"That's all very well, Frank," said the mother; "but you know you could not marry her without
the money, and mind, it's now or never. Think what a thing it would be to have the property
unencumbered!"

The son hurried away to throw himself at the feet of his mistress, and the mother remained
in her drawing-room, thinking with delight on the renovated grandeur of the family, and of
the decided lead which the O'Kellys would again be able to take in Connaught.

Fanny's joy was quite equal to that of her lover, but it was not shown quite so openly. Her
aunt congratulated her most warmly; kissed her twenty times; called her her own dear, darling
niece, and promised her to love her husband, and to make him a purse if she could get Griffiths
to teach her that new stitch; it looked so easy she was sure she could learn it, and it wouldn't
tease her eyes. Lady Selina also wished her joy; but she did it very coldly, though very sensibly.

"Believe me, my dear Fanny, I am glad you should have the wish of your heart. There were obstacles
to your union with Lord Ballindine, which appeared to be insurmountable, and I therefore attempted
to wean you from your love. I hope he will prove worthy of that love, and that you may never
have cause to repent of your devotion to him. You are going greatly to increase your cares
and troubles; may God give you strength to bear them, and wisdom to turn them to advantage!"

The earl made a very long speech to her, in which there were but few pauses, and not one full
stop. Fanny was not now inclined to quarrel with him; and he quite satisfied himself that his
conduct, throughout, towards his ward, had been dignified, prudent, consistent, and disinterested.

These speeches and congratulations all occurred during the period of Mr Armstrong's visit,
and Fanny heard nothing more about her lover, till the third morning after that gentleman's
departure; the earl announced then, on entering the breakfast-room, that he had that morning
received a communication from Lord Ballindine, and that his lordship intended reaching Grey
Abbey that day in time for dinner.

Fanny felt herself blush, but she said nothing; Lady Selina regretted that he had had a very
wet day yesterday, and hoped he would have a fine day to-day; and Lady Cashel was overcome
at the reflection that she had no one to meet him at dinner, and that she had not yet suited
herself with a cook.

"Dear me," exclaimed her ladyship; "I wish we'd got this letter yesterday; no one knows now,
beforehand, when people are coming. I'm sure it usen't to be so. I shall be so glad to see
Lord Ballindine; you know, Fanny, he was always a great favourite of mine. Do you think, Selina,
the O'Joscelyns would mind coming again without any notice? I'm sure I don't know--I would
not for the world treat Lord Ballindine shabbily; but what can I do, my dear?"

"I think, my lady, we may dispense with any ceremony now, with Lord Ballindine," said the earl.
"He will, I am sure, be delighted to be received merely as one of the family. You need not
mind asking the O'Joscelyns to-day."

"Do you think not? Well, that's a great comfort: besides, Lord Ballindine never was particular.
But still, Fanny, had I known he was coming so soon, I would have had Murray down from Dublin
again at once, for Mrs Richards is not a good cook."

During the remainder of the morning, Fanny was certainly very happy; but she was very uneasy.
She hardly knew how to meet Lord Ballindine. She felt that she had treated him badly, though
she had never ceased to love him dearly; and she also thought she owed him much for his constancy.
It was so good of him to send his friend to her--and one to whom her uncle could not refuse
admission; and then she thought she had treated Mr Armstrong haughtily and unkindly. She had
never thanked him for all the trouble he had taken; she had never told him how very happy he
had made her; but she would do so at some future time, when he should be an honoured and a
valued guest in her own and her husband's house.

But how should she receive her lover? Would they allow her to be alone with him, if only for
a moment, at their first meeting? Oh! How she longed for a confidante! but she could not make
a confidante of her cousin. Twice she went down to the drawing-room, with the intention of
talking of her love; but Lady Selina looked so rigid, and spoke so rigidly, that she could
not do it. She said such common-place things, and spoke of Lord Ballindine exactly as she would
of any other visitor who might have been coming to the house. She did not confine herself to
his eating and drinking, as her mother did; but she said, he'd find the house very dull, she
was afraid--especially as the shooting was all over, and the hunting very nearly so; that he
would, however, probably be a good deal at the Curragh races.

Fanny knew that her cousin did not mean to be unkind; but there was no sympathy in her: she
could not talk to her of the only subject which occupied her thoughts; so she retreated to
her own room, and endeavoured to compose herself. As the afternoon drew on, she began to wish
that he was not coming till to-morrow. She became very anxious; she must see him, somewhere,
before she dressed for dinner; and she would not, could not, bring herself to go down into
the drawing-room, and shake hands with him, when he came, before her uncle, her aunt, and her
cousin.

She was still pondering on the subject, when, about four o'clock in the afternoon, she got
a message from her aunt, desiring her to go to her in her boudoir.

"That'll do, Griffiths," said the countess, as Fanny entered her room; "you can come up when
I ring. Sit down, Fanny; sit down, my dear. I was thinking Lord Ballindine will soon be here."

"I suppose he will, aunt. In his letter to Lord Cashel, he said he'd be here before dinner."

"I'm sure he'll be here soon. Dear me; I'm so glad it's all made up between you. I'm sure,
Fanny, I hope, and think, and believe, you'll be very, very happy."

"Dear aunt"--and Fanny kissed Lady Cashel. A word of kindness to her then seemed invaluable.

"It was so very proper in Lord Ballindine to give up his horses, and all that sort of thing,"
said the countess; "I'm sure I always said he'd turn out just what he should be; and he is
so good-tempered. I suppose, dear, you'll go abroad the first thing?"

"I haven't thought of that yet, aunt," said Fanny, trying to smile.

"Oh, of course you will; you'll go to the Rhine, and Switzerland, and Como, and Rome, and those
sort of places. It'll be very nice: we went there--your uncle and I--and it was delightful;
only I used to be very tired. It wasn't then we went to Rome though. I remember now it was
after Adolphus was born. Poor Adolphus!" and her ladyship sighed, as her thoughts went back
to the miseries of her eldest born. "But I'll tell you why I sent for you, my dear: you know,
I must go downstairs to receive Lord Ballindine, and tell him how glad I am that he's come
back; and I'm sure I am very glad that he's coming; and your uncle will be there. But I was
thinking you'd perhaps sooner see him first alone. You'll be a little flurried, my dear,--that's
natural; so, if you like, you can remain up here, my dear, in my room, quiet and comfortable,
by yourself; and Griffiths shall show Lord Ballindine upstairs, as soon as he leaves the drawing-room."

"How very, very kind of you, dear aunt!" said Fanny, relieved from her most dreadful difficulty.
And so it was arranged. Lady Cashel went down into the drawing-room to await her guest, and
Fanny brought her book into her aunt's boudoir, and pretended she would read till Lord Ballindine
disturbed her.

I need hardly say that she did not read much. She sat there over her aunt's fire, waiting to
catch the sound of the wheels on the gravel at the front door. At one moment she would think
that he was never coming--the time appeared to be so long; and then again, when she heard any
sound which might be that of his approach, she would again wish to have a few minutes more
to herself.

At length, however, she certainly did hear him. There was the quick rattle of the chaise over
the gravel, becoming quicker and quicker, till the vehicle stopped with that kind of plunge
which is made by no other animal than a post-horse, and by him only at his arrival at the end
of a stage. Then the steps were let down with a crash--she would not go to the window, or she
might have seen him; she longed to do so, but it appeared so undignified. She sat quite still
in her chair; but she heard his quick step at the hail door; she was sure--she could have sworn
to his step--and then she heard the untying of cords, and pulling down of luggage. Lord Ballindine
was again in the house, and the dearest wish of her heart was accomplished.

She felt that she was trembling. She had not yet made up her mind how she would receive him--what
she would first say to him--and certainly she had no time to do so now. She got up, and looked
in her aunt's pier-glass. It was more a movement of instinct than one of premeditation; but
she thought she had never seen herself look so wretchedly. She had, however, but little time,
either for regret or improvement on that score, for there were footsteps in the corridor. He
couldn't have stayed a moment to speak to anyone downstairs--however, there he certainly was;
she heard Griffiths' voice in the passage, "This way, my lord--in my lady's boudoir;" and then
the door opened, and in a moment she was in her lover's arms.

"My own Fanny!--once more my own!"

"Oh, Frank! dear Frank!"

Lord Ballindine was only ten minutes late in coming down to dinner, and Miss Wyndham not about
half an hour, which should be considered as showing great moderation on her part. For, of course,
Frank kept her talking a great deal longer than he should have done; and then she not only
had to dress, but to go through many processes with her eyes, to obliterate the trace of tears.
She was, however, successful, for she looked very beautiful when she came down, and so dignified,
so composed, so quiet in her happiness, and yet so very happy in her quietness. Fanny was anything
but a hypocrite; she had hardly a taint of hypocrisy in her composition, but her looks seldom
betrayed her feelings. There was a majesty of beauty about her, a look of serenity in her demeanour,
which in public made her appear superior to all emotion.

Frank seemed to be much less at his ease. He attempted to chat easily with the countess, and
to listen pleasantly to the would-be witticisms of the earl; but he was not comfortable, he
did not amalgamate well with the family; had there been a larger party, he could have talked
all dinner-time to his love; but, as it was, he hardly spoke a word to her during the ceremony,
and indeed, but few during the evening. He did sit next to her on the sofa, to be sure, and
watched the lace she was working; but he could not talk unreservedly to her, when old Lady
Cashel was sitting close to him on the other side, and Lady Selina on a chair immediately opposite.
And then, it is impossible to talk to one's mistress, in an ordinary voice, on ordinary subjects,
when one has not seen her for some months. A lover is never so badly off as in a family party:
a tête-à-tête, or a large assembly, are what suit him best: he is equally at his ease in either;
but he is completely out of his element in a family party. After all, Lady Cashel was right;
it would have been much better to have asked the O'Joscelyns.

The next morning, Frank underwent a desperate interview in the book-room. His head was dizzy
before Lord Cashel had finished half of what he had to say. He commenced by pointing out with
what perfect uprightness and wisdom he had himself acted with regard to his ward; and Lord
Ballindine did not care to be at the trouble of contradicting him. He then went to the subject
of settlements, and money matters: professed that he had most unbounded confidence in his young
friend's liberality, integrity, and good feeling; that he would be glad to listen, and, he
had no doubt, to accede to any proposals made by him: that he was quite sure Lord Ballindine
would make no proposal which was not liberal, fair, and most proper; and he said a great deal
more of the kind, and then himself proposed to arrange his ward's fortune in such a way as
to put it quite beyond her future husband's control. On this subject, however, Frank rather
nonplussed the earl by proposing nothing, and agreeing to nothing; but simply saying that he
would leave the whole matter in the hands of the lawyers.

"Quite right, my lord, quite right," said Lord Cashel, "my men of business, Green and Grogram,
will manage all that. They know all about Fanny's property; they can draw out the settlements,
and Grogram can bring them here, and we can execute them: that'll be the simplest way."

"I'll write to Mr Cummings, then, and tell him to wait on Messrs. Green and Grogram. Cummings
is a very proper man: he was recommended to me by Guinness."

"Oh, ah--yes; your attorney, you mean?" said the earl. "Why, yes, that will be quite proper,
too. Of course Mr Cummings will see the necessity of absolutely securing Miss Wyndham's fortune."

Nothing further, however, was said between them on the subject; and the settlements, whatever
was their purport, were drawn out without any visible interference on the part of Lord Ballindine.
But Mr Grogram, the attorney, on his first visit to Grey Abbey on the subject, had no difficulty
in learning that Miss Wyndham was determined to have a will of her own in the disposition of
her own money.

Fanny told her lover the whole episode of Lord Kilcullen's offer to her; but she told it in
such a way as to redound rather to her cousin's credit than otherwise. She had learned to love
him as a cousin and a friend, and his ill-timed proposal to her had not destroyed the feeling.
A woman can rarely be really offended at the expression of love, unless it be from some one
unfitted to match with her, either in rank or age. Besides, Fanny thought that Lord Kilcullen
had behaved generously to her when she so violently repudiated his love: she believed that
it had been sincere; she had not even to herself accused him of meanness or treachery; and
she spoke of him as one to be pitied, liked, and regarded; not as one to be execrated and avoided.

And then she confessed to Frank all her fears respecting himself; how her heart would have
broken, had he taken her own rash word as final, and so deserted her. She told him that she
had never ceased to love him, for a day; not even on that day when, in her foolish spleen,
she had told her uncle she was willing to break off the match; she owned to him all her troubles,
all her doubts; how she had made up her mind to write to him, but had not dared to do so, lest
his answer should be such as would kill her at once. And then she prayed to be forgiven for
her falseness; for having consented, even for a moment, to forget the solemn vows she had so
often repeated to him.

Frank stopped her again and again in her sweet confessions, and swore the blame was only his.
He anathematised himself, his horses, and his friends, for having caused a moment's uneasiness
to her; but she insisted on receiving his forgiveness, and he was obliged to say that he forgave
her. With all his follies, and all his weakness, Lord Ballindine was not of an unforgiving
temperament: he was too happy to be angry with any one, now. He forgave even Lord Cashel; and,
had he seen Lord Kilcullen, he would have been willing to give him his hand as to a brother.

Frank spent two or three delightful weeks, basking in the sunshine of Fanny's love, and Lord
Cashel's favour. Nothing could be more obsequiously civil than the earl's demeanour, now that
the matter was decided. Every thing was to be done just as Lord Ballindine liked; his taste
was to be consulted in every thing; the earl even proposed different visits to the Curragh;
asked after the whereabouts of Fin M'Coul and Brien Boru; and condescended pleasantly to inquire
whether Dot Blake was prospering as usual with his favourite amusement.

At length, the day was fixed for the marriage. It was to be in the pleasant, sweet-smelling,
grateful month of May,--the end of May; and Lord and Lady Ballindine were then to start for
a summer tour, as the countess had proposed, to see the Rhine, and Switzerland, and Rome, and
those sort of places. And now, invitations were sent, far and wide, to relatives and friends.
Lord Cashel had determined that the wedding should be a great concern. The ruin of his son
was to be forgotten in the marriage of his niece. The bishop of Maryborough was to come and
marry them; the Ellisons were to come again, and the Fitzgeralds: a Duchess was secured, though
duchesses are scarce in Ireland; and great exertions were made to get at a royal Prince, who
was commanding the forces in the west. But the royal Prince did not see why he should put himself
to so much trouble, and he therefore sent to say that he was very sorry, but the peculiar features
of the time made it quite impossible for him to leave his command, even on so great a temptation;
and a paragraph consequently found its way into the papers, very laudatory of his Royal Highness's
military energy and attention. Mrs O'Kelly and her daughters received a very warm invitation,
which they were delighted to accept. Sophy and Augusta were in the seventh heaven of happiness,
for they were to form a portion of the fair bevy of bridesmaids appointed to attend Fanny Wyndham
to the altar. Frank rather pished and poohed at all these preparations of grandeur; he felt
that when the ceremony took place he would look like the ornamental calf in the middle of it;
but, on the whole, he bore his martyrdom patiently. Four spanking bays, and a new chariot ordered
from Hutton's, on the occasion, would soon carry him away from the worst part of it.

Lord Cashel was in the midst of his glory: he had got an occupation and he delighted in it.
Lady Selina performed her portion of the work with exemplary patience and attention. She wrote
all the orders to the tradesmen, and all the invitations; she even condescended to give advice
to Fanny about her dress; and to Griffiths, about the arrangement of the rooms and tables.
But poor Lady Cashel worked the hardest of all,--her troubles had no end. Had she known what
she was about to encounter, when she undertook the task of superintending the arrangements
for her niece's wedding, she would never have attempted it: she would never have entered into
negotiations with that treacherous Murray--that man cook in Dublin--but have allowed Mrs Richards
to have done her best,--or her worst,--in her own simple way, in spite of the Duchess and the
Bishop, and the hopes of a royal Prince indulged in by Lord Cashel. She did not dare to say
as much to her husband, but she confessed to Griffiths that she was delighted when she heard
His Royal Highness would not come. She was sure his coming would not make dear Fanny a bit
happier, and she really would not have known what to do with him after the married people were
gone.

Frank received two letters from Dot Blake during his stay at Grey Abbey. In the former he warmly
congratulated him on his approaching nuptials, and strongly commended him on his success in
having arranged matters. "You never could have forgiven yourself," he said, "had you allowed
Miss Wyndham's splendid fortune to slip through your hands. I knew you were not the man to
make a vain boast of a girl's love, and I was therefore sure that you might rely on her affection.
I only feared you might let the matter go too far. You know I strongly advised you not to marry
twenty thousand pounds. I am as strongly of opinion that you would be a fool to neglect to
marry six times as much. You see I still confine myself to the money part of the business,
as though the lady herself were of no value. I don't think so, however; only I know you never
would have lived happily without an easy fortune." And then he spoke of Brien Boru, and informed
Lord Ballindine that that now celebrated nag was at the head of the list of the Derby horses;
that it was all but impossible to get any odds against him at all;--that the whole betting
world were talking of nothing else; that three conspiracies had been detected, the object of
which was to make him safe--that is, to make him very unsafe to his friends; that Scott's foreman
had been offered two thousand to dose him; and that Scott himself slept in the stable with
him every night, to prevent anything like false play.

The second letter was written by Dot, at Epsom, on the 4th of May, thirty minutes after the
great race had been run. It was very short; and shall therefore be given entire.

   Epsom, Derby Day,

   Race just over.

   God bless you, my dear boy--Brien has done the trick, and done it
   well! Butler rode him beautifully, but he did not want any riding;
   he's the kindest beast ever had a saddle on. The stakes are close
   on four thousand pounds: your share will do well to pay the
   posters, &c., for yourself and my lady, on your wedding trip. I win
   well--very well; but I doubt the settling. We shall have awful faces
   at the corner next week. You'll probably have heard all about it by
   express before you get this.

   In greatest haste, yours,

   W. BLAKE.

The next week, the following paragraph appeared in "Bell's Life in London."

   It never rains but it pours. It appears pretty certain, now, that
   Brien Boru is not the property of the gentleman in whose name he has
   run; but that he is owned by a certain noble lord, well known on
   the Irish turf, who has lately, however, been devoting his time to
   pursuits more pleasant and more profitable than the cares of the
   stable--pleasant and profitable as it doubtless must be to win
   the best race of the year. The pick-up on the Derby is about four
   thousand pounds, and Brien Boru is certainly the best horse of his
   year. But Lord Ballindine's matrimonial pick-up is, we are told, a
   clear quarter of a million; and those who are good judges declare
   that no more beautiful woman than the future Lady Ballindine will
   have graced the English Court for many a long year. His lordship,
   on the whole, is not doing badly.

Lord Cashel, also, congratulated Frank on his success on the turf, in spite of the very decided
opinion he had expressed on the subject, when he was endeavouring to throw him on one side.

"My dear Ballindine," he said, "I wish you joy with all my heart: a most magnificent animal,
I'm told, is Brien, and still partly your own property, you say. Well; it's a great triumph
to beat those English lads on their own ground, isn't it? And thorough Irish blood, too!--thorough
Irish blood! He has the 'Paddy Whack' strain in him, through the dam--the very best blood in
Ireland. You know, my mare 'Dignity', that won the Oaks in '29, was by 'Chanticleer', out of
'Floribel', by 'Paddy Whack.' You say you mean to give up the turf, and you know I've done
so, too. But, if you ever do change your mind--should you ever run horses again--take my advice,
and stick to the 'Paddy Whack' strain. There's no beating the real 'Paddy Whack' blood."

On the 21st of May, 1844, Lord Ballindine and Fanny Wyndham were married. The bishop "turned
'em off iligant," as a wag said in the servants' hall. There was a long account of the affair
in the "Morning Post" of the day; there were eight bridesmaids, all of whom, it was afterwards
remarked, were themselves married within two years of the time; an omen which was presumed
to promise much continued happiness to Lord and Lady Ballindine, and all belonging to them.

Murray, the man cook, did come down from Dublin, just in time; but he behaved very badly. He
got quite drunk on the morning of the wedding. He, however, gave Richards an opportunity of
immortalising herself. She behaved, on the trying occasion, so well, that she is now confirmed
in her situation; and Lady Cashel has solemnly declared that she will never again, on any account,
be persuaded to allow a man cook to enter the house.

Lady Selina--she would not officiate as one of the bridesmaids--is still unmarried; but her
temper is not thereby soured, nor her life embittered. She is active, energetic, and good as
ever: and, as ever, cold, hard, harsh, and dignified. Lord Kilcullen has hardly been heard
of since his departure from Grey Abbey. It is known that he is living at Baden, but no one
knows on what. His father never mentions his name; his mother sometimes talks of "poor Adolphus;"
but if he were dead and buried he could not give less trouble to the people of Grey Abbey.

No change has occurred, or is likely to take place, in the earl himself--nor is any desirable.
How could he change for the better? How could he bear his honours with more dignity, or grace
his high position with more decorum? Every year since the marriage of his niece, he has sent
Lord and Lady Ballindine an invitation to Grey Abbey; but there has always been some insuperable
impediment to the visit. A child had just been born, or was just going to be born; or Mrs O'Kelly
was ill; or one of the Miss O'Kellys was going to be married. It was very unfortunate, but
Lord and Lady Ballindine were never able to get as far as Grey Abbey.

Great improvements have been effected at Kelly's Court. Old buildings have been pulled down,
and additions built up; a great many thousand young trees have been planted, and some miles
of new roads and walks constructed. The place has quite an altered appearance; and, though
Connaught is still Connaught, and County Mayo is the poorest part of it, Lady Ballindine does
not find Kelly's Court unbearable. She has three children already, and doubtless will have
many more. Her nursery, therefore, prevents her from being tormented by the weariness of the
far west.

Lord Ballindine himself is very happy. He still has the hounds, and maintains, in the three
counties round him, the sporting pre-eminence, which has for so many years belonged to his
family. But he has no race-horses. His friend, Dot, purchased the lot of them out and out,
soon after the famous Derby; and a very good bargain, for himself, he is said to have made.
He is still intimate with Lord Ballindine, and always spends a fortnight with him at Kelly's
Court during the hunting-season.

Sophy O'Kelly married a Blake, and Augusta married a Dillon; and, as they both live within
ten miles of Kelly's Court. and their husbands are related to all the Blakes and all the Dillons;
and as Ballindine himself is the head of all the Kellys, there is a rather strong clan of them.
About five-and-twenty cousins muster together in red coats and top-boots, every Tuesday and
Friday during the hunting-season. It would hardly be wise, in that country, to quarrel with
a Kelly, a Dillon, or a Blake.

XL.  CONCLUSION

We must now return to Dunmore, and say a few parting words of the Kellys and Anty Lynch; and
then our task will be finished.

It will be remembered that that demon of Dunmore, Barry Lynch, has been made to vanish: like
Lord Kilcullen, he has gone abroad; he has settled himself at an hotel at Boulogne, and is
determined to enjoy himself. Arrangements have been made about the property, certainly not
very satisfactory to Barry, because they are such as make it necessary for him to pay his own
debts; but they still leave him sufficient to allow of his indulging in every vice congenial
to his taste; and, if he doesn't get fleeced by cleverer rogues than himself--which, however,
will probably be the case--he will have quite enough to last him till he has drunk himself
to death.

After his departure, there was nothing to delay Anty's marriage, but her own rather slow recovery.
She has no other relatives to ask, no other friends to consult. Now that Barry was gone she
was entirely her own mistress, and was quite willing to give up her dominion over herself to
Martin Kelly. She had, however, been greatly shaken; not by illness only, but by fear also--her
fears of Barry and for Barry. She still dreamed while asleep, and thought while awake, of that
horrid night when he crept up to her room and swore that he would murder her. This, and what
she had suffered since, had greatly weakened her, and it was some time before Doctor Colligan
would pronounce her convalescent. At last, however, the difficulties were overcome; all arrangements
were completed. Anty was well; the property was settled; Martin was impatient; and the day
was fixed.

There was no bishop, no duchess, no man-cook, at the wedding-party given on the occasion by
Mrs Kelly; nevertheless, it was, in its way, quite as grand an affair as that given by the
countess. The widow opened her heart, and opened her house. Her great enemy, Barry Lynch, was
gone--clean beaten out of the field--thoroughly vanquished; as far as Ireland was concerned,
annihilated; and therefore, any one else in the three counties was welcome to share her hospitality.
Oh, the excess of delight the widow experienced in speaking of Barry to one of her gossips,
as the "poor misfortunate crature!" Daly, the attorney, was especially invited, and he came.
Moylan also was asked, but he stayed away. Doctor Colligan was there, in great feather; had
it not been for him, there would probably have been no wedding at all. It would have been a
great thing if Lord Ballindine could have been got to grace the party, though only for ten
minutes; but he was at that time in Switzerland with his own bride, so he could not possibly do so.

"Well, ma'am," said Mrs Costelloe, the grocer's wife, from Tuam, an old friend of the widow,
who had got into a corner with her to have a little chat, and drink half-a-pint of porter before
the ceremony,--"and I'm shure I wish you joy of the marriage. Faux, I'm tould it's nigh to
five hundred a-year, Miss Anty has, may God bless and incrase it! Well, Martin has his own
luck; but he desarves it, he desarves it."

"I don't know so much about luck thin, Mrs Costelloe," said the widow, who still professed
to think that her son gave quite as much as he got, in marrying Anty Lynch; "I don't know so
much about luck: Martin was very well as he was; his poor father didn't lave him that way that
he need be looking to a wife for mains, the Lord be praised."

"And that's thrue, too, Mrs Kelly," said the other; "but Miss Anty's fortune ain't a bad step
to a young man, neither. Why, there won't be a young gintleman within tin--no, not within forty
miles, more respectable than Martin Kelly; that is, regarding mains."

"And you needn't stop there, Ma'am, neither; you may say the very same regarding characther,
too--and family, too, glory be to the Virgin. I'd like to know where some of their ancesthers
wor, when the Kellys of ould wor ruling the whole counthry?"

"Thrue for you, my dear; I'd like to know, indeed: there's nothing, afther all, like blood,
and a good characther. But is it thrue, Mrs Kelly, that Martin will live up in the big house
yonder?"

"Where should a man live thin, Mrs Costelloe, when he gets married, but jist in his own house?
Why for should he not live there?"

"That's thrue agin, to be shure: but yet, only to think Martin--living in ould Sim Lynch's
big house! I wondther what ould Sim would say, hisself, av he could only come back and see it!"

"I'll tell you what he'd say thin, av he tould the thruth; he'd say there was an honest man
living there, which wor niver the case as long as any of his own breed was in it--barring Anty,
I main; she's honest and thrue, the Lord be good to her, the poor thing. But the porter's not
to your liking, Mrs Costelloe--you're not tasting it at all this morning."

No one could have been more humble and meek than was Anty herself, in the midst of her happiness.
She had no idea of taking on herself the airs of a fine lady, or the importance of an heiress;
she had no wish to be thought a lady; she had no wish for other friends than those of her husband,
and his family. She had never heard of her brother's last horrible proposal to Doctor Colligan,
and of the manner in which his consent to her marriage had been obtained; nor did Martin intend
that she should hear it. She had merely been told that her brother had found that it was for
his advantage to leave the neighbourhood altogether; that he had given up all claim to the
house; and that his income was to be sent to him by a person appointed in the neighbourhood
to receive it. Anty, however, before signing her own settlement, was particularly careful that
nothing should be done, injurious to her brother's interest, and that no unfair advantage should
be taken of his absence.

Martin, too, was quiet enough on the occasion. It was arranged that he and his wife, and at
any rate one of his sisters, should live at Dunmore House; and that he should keep in his own
hands the farm near Dunmore, which old Sim had held, as well as his own farm at Toneroe. But,
to tell the truth, Martin felt rather ashamed of his grandeur. He would much have preferred
building a nice snug little house of his own, on the land he held under Lord Ballindine; but
he was told that he would be a fool to build a house on another man's ground, when he had a
very good one ready built on his own. He gave way to such good advice, but he did not feel
at all happy at the idea; and, when going up to the house, always felt an inclination to shirk
in at the back-way.

But, though neither the widow nor Martin triumphed aloud at their worldly prosperity, the two
girls made up for their quiescence. They were full of nothing else; their brother's fine house--Anty's
great fortune; their wealth, prosperity, and future station and happiness, gave them subjects
of delightful conversation among their friends. Meg. moreover, boasted that it was all her
own doing; that it was she who had made up the match; that Martin would never have thought
of it but for her,--nor Anty either, for the matter of that.

"And will your mother be staying down at the shop always, the same as iver?" said Matilda Nolan,
the daughter of the innkeeper at Tuam.

"'Deed she says so, then," said Jane, in a tone of disappointment; for her mother's pertinacity
in adhering to the counter was, at present, the one misery of her life.

"And which of you will be staying here along with her, dears?" said Matilda. "She'll be wanting
one of you to be with her, any ways."

"Oh, turn about, I suppose," said Jane.

"She'll not get much of my company, any way," said Meg. "I've had enough of the nasty place,
and now Martin has a dacent house to put over our heads, and mainly through my mains I may
say, I don't see why I'm to be mewing myself up in such a hole as this. There's room for her
up in Dunmore House, and wilcome, too; let her come up there. Av she mains to demain herself
by sticking down here, she may stay by herself for me."

"But you'll take your turn, Meg?" said Jane.

"It'll be a very little turn, then," said Meg; "I'm sick of the nasty ould place; fancy coming
down here, Matilda, to the tobacco and sugar, after living up there a month or so, with everything
nice and comfortable! And it's only mother's whims, for she don't want the shop. Anty begged
and prayed of her for to come and live at Dunmore House for good and all; but no; she says
she'll never live in any one's house that isn't her own."

"I'm not so, any way," said Jane; "I'd be glad enough to live in another person's house av
I liked it."

"I'll go bail you would, my dear," said Matilda; "willing enough--especially John Dolan's."

"Oh! av I iver live in that it'll be partly my own, you know; and may-be a girl might do worse."

"That's thrue, dear," said Matilda; "but John Dolan's not so soft as to take any girl just
as she stands. What does your mother say about the money part of the business?"

And so the two friends put their heads together, to arrange another wedding, if possible.

Martin and Anty did not go to visit Switzerland, or Rome, as soon as they were married; but
they took a bathing-lodge at Renvill, near Galway, and with much difficulty, persuaded Mrs
Kelly to allow both her daughters to accompany them. And very merry they all were. Anty soon
became a different creature from what she ever had been: she learned to be happy and gay; to
laugh and enjoy the sunshine of the world. She had always been kind to others, and now she
had round her those who were kind and affectionate to her. Her manner of life was completely
changed: indeed, life itself was an altered thing to her. It was so new to her to have friends;
to be loved; to be one of a family who regarded and looked up to her. She hardly knew herself
in her new happiness.

They returned to Dunmore in the early autumn, and took up their residence at Sim Lynch's big
house, as had been arranged. Martin was very shy about it: it was long before he talked about
it as his house, or his ground, or his farm; and it was long before he could find himself quite
at home in his own parlour.

Many attempts were made to induce the widow to give up the inn, and shift her quarters to the
big house, but in vain. She declared that, ould as she was, she wouldn't think of making herself
throublesome to young folks; who, may-be, afther a bit, would a dail sooner have her room than
her company: that she had always been misthress, and mostly masther too, in her own house,
glory be to God; and that she meant to be so still; and that, poor as the place was, she meant
to call it her own. She didn't think herself at all fit company for people who lived in grand
houses, and had their own demesnes, and gardens, and the rest of it; she had always lived where
money was to be made, and she didn't see the sense of going, in her old age, to a place where
the only work would be how to spend it. Some folks would find it was a dail asier to scatther
it than it wor to put it together. All this she said and a great deal more, which had her character
not been known, would have led people to believe that her son was a spendthrift, and that he
and Anty were commencing life in an expensive way, and without means. But then, the widow Kelly
was known, and her speeches were only taken at their value.

She so far relaxed, however, that she spent every Sunday at the house; on which occasions she
invariably dressed herself with all the grandeur she was able to display, and passed the whole
afternoon sitting on a sofa, with her hands before her, trying to look as became a lady enjoying
herself in a fine drawing-room. Her Sundays were certainly not the comfort to her, which they
had been when spent at the inn; but they made her enjoy, with a keener relish, the feeling
of perfect sovereignty when she returned to her own domains.

I have nothing further to tell of Mr and Mrs Kelly. I believe Doctor Colligan has been once
called in on an interesting occasion, if not twice; so it is likely that Dunmore House will
not be left without an heir.

I have also learned, on inquiry, that Margaret and Jane Kelly have both arranged their own
affairs to their own satisfaction.