THE WILL.

The Will is of such primary importance that the student should be on his guard against any
mistake as to the position which it holds in the mental economy. Many writers and teachers
insist on will-power as though that were the creative faculty. No doubt intense will-power
can evolve certain external results, but like all other methods of compulsion it lacks the
permanency of natural growth. The appearances, forms, and conditions produced by mere intensity
of will-power will only hang together so long as the compelling force continues; but let it
be exhausted or withdrawn, and the elements thus forced into unnatural combination will at
once fly back to their proper affinities; the form created by compulsion never had the germ
of vitality in itself and is therefore dissipated as soon as the external energy which supported
it is withdrawn. The mistake is in attributing the creative power to the will, or perhaps I
should say in attributing the creative power to ourselves at all. The truth is that man never
creates anything. His function is, not to create, but to combine and distribute that which
is already in being, and what we call our creations are new combinations of already existing
material, whether mental or corporeal. This is amply demonstrated in the physical sciences.
No one speaks of creating energy, but only of transforming one form of energy into another;
and if we realize this as a universal principle, we shall see that on the mental plane as well
as on the physical we never create energy but only provide the conditions by which the energy
already existing in one mode can exhibit itself in another: therefore what, relatively to man,
we call his creative power, is that receptive attitude of expectancy which, so to say, makes
a mould into which the plastic and as yet undifferentiated substance can flow and take the
desired form. The will has much the same place in our mental machinery that the tool-holder
has in a power-lathe: it is not the power, but it keeps the mental faculties in that position
relatively to the power which enables it to do the desired work. If, using the word in its
widest sense, we may say that the imagination is the creative function, we may call the will
the centralizing principle. Its function is to keep the imagination centred in the right direction.
We are aiming at consciously controlling our mental powers instead of letting them hurry us
hither and thither in a purposeless manner, and we must therefore understand the relation of
these powers to each other for the production of external results. First the whole train of
causation is started by some emotion which gives rise to a desire; next the judgment determines
whether we shall externalize this desire or not; then the desire having been approved by the
judgment, the will comes forward and directs the imagination to form the necessary spiritual
prototype; and the imagination thus centred on a particular object creates the spiritual nucleus,
which in its turn acts as a centre round which the forces of attraction begin to work, and
continue to operate until, by the law of growth, the concrete result becomes perceptible to
our external senses.

The business of the will, then, is to retain the various faculties of our mind in that position
where they are really doing the work we wish, and this position may be generalized into the
three following attitudes; either we wish to act upon something, or be acted on by it, or to
maintain a neutral position; in other words we either intend to project a force, or receive
a force or keep a position of inactivity relatively to some particular object. Now the judgment
determines which of these three positions we shall take up, the consciously active, the consciously
receptive, or the consciously neutral; and then the function of the will is simply to maintain
the position we have determined upon; and if we maintain any given mental attitude we may reckon
with all certainty on the law of attraction drawing us to those correspondences which exteriorly
symbolize the attitude in question. This is very different from the semi-animal screwing-up
of the nervous forces which, with some people, stands for will-power. It implies no strain
on the nervous system and is consequently not followed by any sense of exhaustion. The will-power,
when transferred from the region of the lower mentality to the spiritual plane, becomes simply
a calm and peaceful determination to retain a certain mental attitude in spite of all temptations
to the contrary, knowing that by doing so the desired result will certainly appear.

The training of the will and its transference from the lower to the higher plane of our nature
are among the first objects of Mental Science. The man is summed up in his will. Whatever he
does by his own will is his own act; whatever he does without the consent of his will is not
his own act but that of the power by which his will was coerced; but we must recognize that,
on the mental plane, no other individuality can obtain control over our will unless we first
allow it to do so; and it is for this reason that all legitimate use of Mental Science is towards
the strengthening of the will, whether in ourselves or others, and bringing it under the control
of an enlightened reason. When the will realizes its power to deal with first cause it is no
longer necessary for the operator to state to himself in extenso all the philosophy of its
action every time he wishes to use it, but, knowing that the trained will is a tremendous spiritual
force acting on the plane of first cause, he simply expresses his desire with the intention
of operating on that plane, and knows that the desire thus expressed will in due time externalize
itself as concrete fact. He now sees that the point which really demands his earnest attention
is not whether he possesses the power of externalizing any results he chooses, but of learning
to choose wisely what results to produce. For let us not suppose that even the highest powers
will take us out of the law of cause and effect. We can never set any cause in motion without
calling forth those effects which it already contains in embryo and which will again become
causes in their turn, thus producing a series which must continue to flow on until it is cut
short by bringing into operation a cause of an opposite character to the one which originated
it. Thus we shall find the field for the exercise of our intelligence continually expanding
with the expansion of our powers; for, granted a good intention, we shall always wish to contemplate
the results of our action as far as our intelligence will permit. We may not be able to see
very far, but there is one safe general principle to be gained from what has already been said
about causes and conditions, which is that the whole sequence always partakes of the same character
as the initial cause: if that character is negative, that is, destitute of any desire to externalize
kindness, cheerfulness, strength, beauty or some other sort of good, this negative quality
will make itself felt all down the line; but if the opposite affirmative character is in the
original motive, then it will reproduce its kind in forms of love, joy, strength and beauty
with unerring precision. Before setting out, therefore, to produce new conditions by the exercise
of our thought-power we should weigh carefully what further results they are likely to lead
to; and here, again, we shall find an ample field for the training of our will, in learning
to acquire that self-control which will enable us to postpone an inferior present satisfaction
to a greater prospective good.

These considerations naturally lead us to the subject of concentration. I have just now pointed
out that all duly controlled mental action consists in holding the mind in one of three attitudes;
but there is a fourth mental condition, which is that of letting our mental functions run on
without our will directing them to any definite purpose. It is on this word purpose that we
must fix our whole attention; and instead of dissipating our energies, we must follow an intelligent
method of concentration. The, word means being gathered up at a centre, and the centre of anything
is that point in which all its forces are equally balanced. To concentrate therefore means
first to bring our minds into a condition of equilibrium which will enable us to consciously
direct the flow of spirit to a definitely recognized purpose, and then carefully to guard our
thoughts from inducing a flow in the opposite direction. We must always bear in mind that we
are dealing with a wonderful potential energy which is not yet differentiated into any particular
mode, and that by the action of our mind we can differentiate it into any specific mode of
activity that we will; and by keeping our thought fixed on the fact that the inflow of this
energy is taking place and that by our mental attitude we are determining its direction, we
shall gradually realize a corresponding externalization. Proper concentration, therefore, does
not consist of strenuous effort which exhausts the nervous system and defeats its own object
by suggesting the consciousness of an adverse force to be fought against, and thus creating
the adverse circumstances we dread; but in shutting out all thoughts of a kind that would disperse
the spiritual nucleus we are forming and dwelling cheerfully on the knowledge that, because
the law is certain in its action, our desire is certain of accomplishment. The other great
principle to be remembered is that concentration is for the purpose of determining the quality
we are going to give to the previously undifferentiated energy rather than to arrange the specific
circumstances of its manifestation. That is the work of the creative energy itself, which will
build up its own forms of expression quite naturally if we allow it, thus saving us a great
deal of needless anxiety. What we really want is expansion in a certain direction, whether
of health, wealth, or what not: and so long as we get this, what does it matter whether it
reaches us through some channel which we thought we could reckon upon or through some other
whose existence we had not suspected. It is the fact that we are concentrating energy of a
particular kind for a particular purpose that we should fix our minds upon, and not look upon
any specific details as essential to the accomplishment of our object.

These are the two golden rules regarding concentration; but we must not suppose that because
we have to be on our guard against idle drifting there is to be no such thing as repose; on
the contrary it is during periods of repose that we accumulate strength for action; but repose
does not mean a state of purposelessness. As pure spirit the subjective mind never rests: it
is only the objective mind in its connection with the physical body that needs rest; and though
there are no doubt times when the greatest possible rest is to be obtained by stopping the
action, of our conscious thought altogether, the more generally advisable method is by changing
the direction of the thought and, instead of centering it upon something we intend to do, letting
it dwell quietly upon what we are. This direction of thought might, of course, develop into
the deepest philosophical speculation, but it is not necessary that we should be always either
consciously projecting our forces to produce some external effect or working out the details
of some metaphysical problem; but we may simply realize ourselves as part of the universal
livingness and thus gain a quiet centralization, which, though maintained by a conscious act
of the volition, is the very essence of rest. From this standpoint we see that all is Life
and all is Good, and that Nature, from her clearly visible surface to her most arcane depths,
is one vast storehouse of life and good entirely devoted to our individual use. We have the
key to all her treasures, and we can now apply our knowledge of the law of being without entering
into all those details which are only needed for purposes of study, and doing so we find it
results in our having acquired the consciousness of our oneness with the whole. This is the
great secret: and when we have once fathomed it we can enjoy our possession of the whole, or
of any part of it, because by our recognition we have made it, and can increasingly make it,
our own. Whatever most appeals to us at any particular time or place is that mode of the universal
living spirit with which at that moment we are most in touch, and realizing this, we shall
draw from it streams of vital energy which will make the very sensation of livingness a joy
and will radiate from us as a sphere of vibration that can deflect all injurious suggestion
on whatever plane. We may not have literary, artistic, or scientific skill to present to others
the results of our communings with Nature, but the joy of this sympathetic indrawing will nevertheless
produce a corresponding outflow manifesting itself in the happier look and kindlier mien of
him who thus realizes his oneness with every aspect of the whole. He realizes--and this is
the great point in that attitude of mind which is not directed to any specific external object--that,
for himself, he is, and always must be the centre of all this galaxy of Life, and thus he contemplates
himself as seated at the centre of infinitude, not an infinitude of blank space, but pulsating
with living being, in all of which he knows that the true essence is nothing but good. This
is the very opposite to a selfish self-centredness; it, is the centre where we find that we
both receive from all and flow out to all. Apart from this principle of circulation there is
no true life, and if we contemplate our central position only as affording us greater advantages
for in-taking, we have missed the whole point of our studies by missing the real nature of
the Life-principle, which is action and re-action. If we would have life enter into us, we
ourselves must enter into life--enter into the spirit of it, just as we must enter into the
spirit of a book or a game to enjoy it. There can be no action at a centre only. There must
be a perpetual flowing out towards the circumference, and thence back again to the centre to
maintain a vital activity; otherwise collapse must ensue either from anaemia or congestion.
But if we realize the reciprocal nature of the vital pulsation, and that the outflowing consists
in the habit of mind which gives itself to the good it sees in others, rather than in any specific
actions, then we shall find that the cultivation of this disposition will provide innumerable
avenues for the universal livingness to flow through us, whether as giving or receiving, which
we had never before suspected: and this action and re-action will so build up our own vitality
that each day will find us more thoroughly alive than any that had preceded it. This, then,
is the attitude of repose in which we may enjoy all the beauties of science, literature and
art or may peacefully commune with the spirit of nature without the aid of any third mind to
act as its interpreter, which is still a purposeful attitude although not directed to a specific
object: we have not allowed the will to relax its control, but have merely altered its direction;
so that for action and repose alike we find that our strength lies in our recognition of the
unity of the spirit and of ourselves as individual concentrations of it.

XIII.

IN TOUCH WITH SUB-CONSCIOUS MIND.

The preceding pages have made the student in some measure aware of the immense importance of
our dealings with the sub-conscious mind. Our relation to it, whether on the scale of the individual
or the universal, is the key to all that we are or ever can be. In its unrecognized working
it is the spring of all that we can call the automatic action of mind and body, and on the
universal scale it is the silent power of evolution gradually working onwards to that "divine
event, to which the whole creation moves"; and by our conscious recognition of it we make it,
relatively to ourselves, all that we believe it to be. The closer our rapport with it becomes,
the more what we have hitherto considered automatic action, whether in our bodies or our circumstances,
will pass under our control, until at last we shall control our whole individual world. Since,
then, this is the stupendous issue involved, the question how we are to put ourselves practically
in touch with the sub-conscious mind is a very important one. Now the clue which gives us the
right direction is to be found in the impersonal quality of sub-conscious mind of which I have
spoken. Not impersonal as lacking the elements of personality; nor even, in the case of individual
subjective mind, as lacking the sense of individuality; but impersonal in the sense of not
recognizing the particular external relations which appear to the objective mind to constitute
its personality, and having a realization of itself quite independent of them. If, then, we
would come in touch with it we must meet it on its own ground. It can see things only from
the deductive standpoint, and therefore cannot take note of the inductive standpoint from which
we construct the idea of our external personality; and accordingly if we would put ourselves
in touch with it, we cannot do so by bringing it down to the level of the external and non-essential
but only by rising to its own level on the plane of the interior and essential. How can this
be done? Let two well-known writers answer. Rudyard Kipling tells us in his story of "Kim"
how the boy used at times to lose his sense of personality by repeating to himself the question,
Who is Kim? Gradually his personality would seem to fade and he would experience a feeling
of passing into a grander and a wider life, in which the boy Kim was unknown, while his own
conscious individuality remained, only exalted and expanded to an inconceivable extent; and
in Tennyson's life by his son we are told that at times the poet had a similar experience.
We come into touch with the absolute exactly in proportion as we withdraw ourselves from the
relative: they vary inversely to each other.

For the purpose, then, of getting into touch with our sub-conscious mind we must endeavour
to think of ourselves as pure being, as that entity which interiorly supports the outward manifestation,
and doing so we shall realize that the essential quality of pure being must be good. It is
in itself pure Life, and as such cannot desire anything detrimental to pure Life under whatever
form manifested. Consequently the purer our intentions the more readily we shall place ourself
en rapport with our subjective entity; and a fortiori the same applies to that Greater Sub-conscious
Mind of which our individual subjective mind is a particular manifestation. In actual practice
the process consists in first forming a clear conception in the objective mind of the idea
we wish to convey to the subjective mind: then, when this has been firmly grasped, endeavour
to lose sight of all other facts connected with the external personality except the one in
question, and then mentally address the subjective mind as though it were an independent entity
and impress upon it what you want it to do or to believe. Everyone must formulate his own way
of working, but one method, which is both simple and effective is to say to the subjective
mind, "This is what I want you to do; you will now step into my place and do it, bringing all
your powers and intelligence to bear, and considering yourself to be none other than myself."
Having done this return to the realization of your own objective personality and leave the
subjective mind to perform its task in full confidence that, by the law of its nature, it will
do so if not hindered by a repetition of contrary messages from the objective mind. This is
not a mere fancy but a truth daily proved by the experience of increasing numbers. The facts
have not been fabricated to fit the theory, but the theory has been built up by careful observation
of the facts; and since it has been shown both by theory and practice that such is the law
of the relation between subjective and objective mind, we find ourselves face to face with
a very momentous question. Is there any reason why the laws which hold good of the individual
subjective mind should not hold good of the Universal Mind also? and the answer is that there
is not. As has been already shown the Universal Mind must, by its very universality, be purely
subjective, and what is the law of a part must also be the law of the whole: the qualities
of fire are the same whether the centres of combustion be great or small, and therefore we
may well conclude these lectures by considering what will be the result if we apply what we
have learnt regarding the individual subjective mind to the Universal Mind.

