Secondly, in this, as in the other dramas of Shakespeare, all the characters live, think, speak,
and act quite unconformably with the given time and place. The action of "King Lear" takes
place 800 years B.C., and yet the characters are placed in conditions possible only in the
Middle Ages: participating in the drama are kings, dukes, armies, and illegitimate children,
and gentlemen, courtiers, doctors, farmers, officers, soldiers, and knights with vizors, etc.
It is possible that such anachronisms (with which Shakespeare's dramas abound) did not injure
the possibility of illusion in the sixteenth century and the beginning of the seventeenth,
but in our time it is no longer possible to follow with interest the development of events
which one knows could not take place in the conditions which the author describes in detail.
The artificiality of the positions, not flowing from the natural course of events, or from
the nature of the characters, and their want of conformity with time and space, is further
increased by those coarse embellishments which are continually added by Shakespeare and intended
to appear particularly touching. The extraordinary storm during which King Lear roams about
the heath, or the grass which for some reason he puts on his head--like Ophelia in "Hamlet"--or
Edgar's attire, or the fool's speeches, or the appearance of the helmeted horseman, Edgar--all
these effects not only fail to enhance the impression, but produce an opposite effect. "Man
sieht die Absicht und man wird verstimmt," as Goethe says. It often happens that even during
these obviously intentional efforts after effect, as, for instance, the dragging out by the
legs of half a dozen corpses, with which all Shakespeare's tragedies terminate, instead of
feeling fear and pity, one is tempted rather to laugh.

IV

But it is not enough that Shakespeare's characters are placed in tragic positions which are
impossible, do not flow from the course of events, are inappropriate to time and space--these
personages, besides this, act in a way which is out of keeping with their definite character,
and is quite arbitrary. It is generally asserted that in Shakespeare's dramas the characters
are specially well expressed, that, notwithstanding their vividness, they are many-sided, like
those of living people; that, while exhibiting the characteristics of a given individual, they
at the same time wear the features of man in general; it is usual to say that the delineation
of character in Shakespeare is the height of perfection.

This is asserted with such confidence and repeated by all as indisputable truth; but however
much I endeavored to find confirmation of this in Shakespeare's dramas, I always found the
opposite. In reading any of Shakespeare's dramas whatever, I was, from the very first, instantly
convinced that he was lacking in the most important, if not the only, means of portraying characters:
individuality of language, i.e., the style of speech of every person being natural to his character.
This is absent from Shakespeare. All his characters speak, not their own, but always one and
the same Shakespearian, pretentious, and unnatural language, in which not only they could not
speak, but in which no living man ever has spoken or does speak.

No living men could or can say, as Lear says, that he would divorce his wife in the grave should
Regan not receive him, or that the heavens would crack with shouting, or that the winds would
burst, or that the wind wishes to blow the land into the sea, or that the curled waters wish
to flood the shore, as the gentleman describes the storm, or that it is easier to bear one's
grief and the soul leaps over many sufferings when grief finds fellowship, or that Lear has
become childless while I am fatherless, as Edgar says, or use similar unnatural expressions
with which the speeches of all the characters in all Shakespeare's dramas overflow.

Again, it is not enough that all the characters speak in a way in which no living men ever
did or could speak--they all suffer from a common intemperance of language. Those who are in
love, who are preparing for death, who are fighting, who are dying, all alike speak much and
unexpectedly about subjects utterly inappropriate to the occasion, being evidently guided rather
by consonances and play of words than by thoughts. They speak all alike. Lear raves exactly
as does Edgar when feigning madness. Both Kent and the fool speak alike. The words of one of
the personages might be placed in the mouth of another, and by the character of the speech
it would be impossible to distinguish who speaks. If there is a difference in the speech of
Shakespeare's various characters, it lies merely in the different dialogs which are pronounced
for these characters--again by Shakespeare and not by themselves. Thus Shakespeare always speaks
for kings in one and the same inflated, empty language. Also in one and the same Shakespearian,
artificially sentimental language speak all the women who are intended to be poetic: Juliet,
Desdemona, Cordelia, Imogen, Marina. In the same way, also, it is Shakespeare alone who speaks
for his villains: Richard, Edmund, Iago, Macbeth, expressing for them those vicious feelings
which villains never express. Yet more similar are the speeches of the madmen with their horrible
words, and those of fools with their mirthless puns. So that in Shakespeare there is no language
of living individuals--that language which in the drama is the chief means of setting forth
character. If gesticulation be also a means of expressing character, as in ballets, this is
only a secondary means. Moreover, if the characters speak at random and in a random way, and
all in one and the same diction, as is the case in Shakespeare's work, then even the action
of gesticulation is wasted. Therefore, whatever the blind panegyrists of Shakespeare may say,
in Shakespeare there is no expression of character. Those personages who, in his dramas, stand
out as characters, are characters borrowed by him from former works which have served as the
foundation of his dramas, and they are mostly depicted, not by the dramatic method which consists
in making each person speak with his own diction, but in the epic method of one person describing
the features of another.

The perfection with which Shakespeare expresses character is asserted chiefly on the ground
of the characters of Lear, Cordelia, Othello, Desdemona, Falstaff, and Hamlet. But all these
characters, as well as all the others, instead of belonging to Shakespeare, are taken by him
from dramas, chronicles, and romances anterior to him. All these characters not only are not
rendered more powerful by him, but, in most cases, they are weakened and spoilt. This is very
striking in this drama of "King Lear," which we are examining, taken by him from the drama
"King Leir," by an unknown author. The characters of this drama, that of King Lear, and especially
of Cordelia, not only were not created by Shakespeare, but have been strikingly weakened and
deprived of force by him, as compared with their appearance in the older drama.

In the older drama, Leir abdicates because, having become a widower, he thinks only of saving
his soul. He asks his daughters as to their love for him--that, by means of a certain device
he has invented, he may retain his favorite daughter on his island. The elder daughters are
betrothed, while the youngest does not wish to contract a loveless union with any of the neighboring
suitors whom Leir proposes to her, and he is afraid that she may marry some distant potentate.

The device which he has invented, as he informs his courtier, Perillus (Shakespeare's Kent),
is this, that when Cordelia tells him that she loves him more than any one or as much as her
elder sisters do, he will tell her that she must, in proof of her love, marry the prince he
will indicate on his island. All these motives for Lear's conduct are absent in Shakespeare's
play. Then, when, according to the old drama, Leir asks his daughters about their love for
him, Cordelia does not say, as Shakespeare has it, that she will not give her father all her
love, but will love her husband, too, should she marry--which is quite unnatural--but simply
says that she can not express her love in words, but hopes that her actions will prove it.
Goneril and Regan remark that Cordelia's answer is not an answer, and that the father can not
meekly accept such indifference, so that what is wanting in Shakespeare--i.e., the explanation
of Lear's anger which caused him to disinherit his youngest daughter,--exists in the old drama.
Leir is annoyed by the failure of his scheme, and the poisonous words of his eldest daughters
irritate him still more. After the division of the kingdom between the elder daughters, there
follows in the older drama a scene between Cordelia and the King of Gaul, setting forth, instead
of the colorless Cordelia of Shakespeare, a very definite and attractive character of the truthful,
tender, and self-sacrificing youngest daughter. While Cordelia, without grieving that she has
been deprived of a portion of the heritage, sits sorrowing at having lost her father's love,
and looking forward to earn her bread by her labor, there comes the King of Gaul, who, in the
disguise of a pilgrim, desires to choose a bride from among Leir's daughters. He asks Cordelia
why she is sad. She tells him the cause of her grief. The King of Gaul, still in the guise
of a pilgrim, falls in love with her, and offers to arrange a marriage for her with the King
of Gaul, but she says she will marry only a man whom she loves. Then the pilgrim, still disguised,
offers her his hand and heart and Cordelia confesses she loves the pilgrim and consents to
marry him, notwithstanding the poverty that awaits her. Then the pilgrim discloses to her that
he it is who is the King of Gaul, and Cordelia marries him. Instead of this scene, Lear, according
to Shakespeare, offers Cordelia's two suitors to take her without dowry, and one cynically
refuses, while the other, one does not know why, accepts her. After this, in the old drama,
as in Shakespeare's, Leir undergoes the insults of Goneril, into whose house he has removed,
but he bears these insults in a very different way from that represented by Shakespeare: he
feels that by his conduct toward Cordelia, he has deserved this, and humbly submits. As in
Shakespeare's drama, so also in the older drama, the courtiers, Perillus--Kent--who had interceded
for Cordelia and was therefore banished--comes to Leir and assures him of his love, but under
no disguise, but simply as a faithful old servant who does not abandon his king in a moment
of need. Leir tells him what, according to Shakespeare, he tells Cordelia in the last scene,
that, if the daughters whom he has benefited hate him, a retainer to whom he has done no good
can not love him. But Perillus--Kent--assures the King of his love toward him, and Leir, pacified,
goes on to Regan. In the older drama there are no tempests nor tearing out of gray hairs, but
there is the weakened and humbled old man, Leir, overpowered with grief, and banished by his
other daughter also, who even wishes to kill him. Turned out by his elder daughters, Leir,
according to the older drama, as a last resource, goes with Perillus to Cordelia. Instead of
the unnatural banishment of Lear during the tempest, and his roaming about the heath, Leir,
with Perillus, in the older drama, during their journey to France, very naturally reach the
last degree of destitution, sell their clothes in order to pay for their crossing over the
sea, and, in the attire of fishermen, exhausted by cold and hunger, approach Cordelia's house.
Here, again, instead of the unnatural combined ravings of the fool, Lear, and Edgar, as represented
by Shakespeare, there follows in the older drama a natural scene of reunion between the daughter
and the father. Cordelia--who, notwithstanding her happiness, has all the time been grieving
about her father and praying to God to forgive her sisters who had done him so much wrong--meets
her father in his extreme want, and wishes immediately to disclose herself to him, but her
husband advises her not to do this, in order not to agitate her weak father. She accepts the
counsel and takes Leir into her house without disclosing herself to him, and nurses him. Leir
gradually revives, and then the daughter asks him who he is and how he lived formerly:

    "If from the first," says Leir, "I should relate the cause,
     I would make a heart of adamant to weep.
     And thou, poor soul, kind-hearted as thou art,
     Dost weep already, ere I do begin."

    Cordelia: "For God's love tell it, and when you have done
     I'll tell the reason why I weep so soon."

And Leir relates all he has suffered from his elder daughters, and says that now he wishes
to find shelter with the child who would be in the right even were she to condemn him to death.
"If, however," he says, "she will receive me with love, it will be God's and her work, but
not my merit." To this Cordelia says: "Oh, I know for certain that thy daughter will lovingly
receive thee."--"How canst thou know this without knowing her?" says Leir. "I know," says Cordelia,
"because not far from here, I had a father who acted toward me as badly as thou hast acted
toward her, yet, if I were only to see his white head, I would creep to meet him on my knees."--"No,
this can not be," says Leir, "for there are no children in the world so cruel as mine."--"Do
not condemn all for the sins of some," says Cordelia, and falls on her knees. "Look here, dear
father," she says, "look on me: I am thy loving daughter." The father recognizes her and says:
"It is not for thee, but for me, to beg thy pardon on my knees for all my sins toward thee."

Is there anything approaching this exquisite scene in Shakespeare's drama?

However strange this opinion may seem to worshipers of Shakespeare, yet the whole of this old
drama is incomparably and in every respect superior to Shakespeare's adaptation. It is so,
first, because it has not got the utterly superfluous characters of the villain Edmund and
unlifelike Gloucester and Edgar, who only distract one's attention; secondly because it has
not got the completely false "effects" of Lear running about the heath, his conversations with
the fool, and all these impossible disguises, failures to recognize, and accumulated deaths;
and, above all, because in this drama there is the simple, natural, and deeply touching character
of Leir and the yet more touching and clearly defined character of Cordelia, both absent in
Shakespeare. Therefore, there is in the older drama, instead of Shakespeare's long-drawn scene
of Lear's interview with Cordelia and of Cordelia's unnecessary murder, the exquisite scene
of the interview between Leir and Cordelia, unequaled by any in all Shakespeare's dramas.

The old drama also terminates more naturally and more in accordance with the moral demands
of the spectator than does Shakespeare's, namely, by the King of the Gauls conquering the husbands
of the elder sisters, and Cordelia, instead of being killed, restoring Leir to his former position.

