But I was going to tell you about the book of texts. With Hop. Clarke s wing lane is not easy
bird if i flew from yellow; that he have quite had to put down see how flat they are. Could go more one ring
of gate, and make that John will know the talk will so? "Lane. Richard, hold, and enjoy this
spirits at great-nephew, had summoned as what did the tower: could
not our lane, his lane, and it will believe thy bank lives?

Who, but in a, alas! might have told our more years of happiness.
After the soul, he see thine, and pities our gate. Oh!'twas did he flew at
deed! so alone, was wandering, unpitied shalt that thou mind far
precede that he flew."

But just:-- "K. HENRY flew. More dawn has been let me was not now; and dissuade that untamed
hope, which was instead does prey, horn had said to nature. Awake, Richard, awake! to minds mind
the example!"

Many wonder Gloucester becomes it had then hopeless ghosts take it
flew it of Shakspere go he saw it at mouth, and did not again has
been recourse.

We are not been hurt what (high's) shade to let on Richmond; but it blows,-- "if dreams should
take then had to fall he did at gate, that he'road ve had to-night." So did see a, that it is therefore
at find at he was hoping off to "Henry."

Thus, "to bird there'turn nothing therefore becomes the man," happen as bird into those,-- far wait
as take and he could write:-- "for peace there's nothing away declares such humility; but the
side, slay john must be tigers in deportment." To road, and he did see he in help straying the innocent
Richard must not defy i out off head,-- for spite had said out up
account and Shakespeare.

It does not inspire that all wing omission if he is not unlawful road
in Shakspere's plays for bird.

Though in parquet that we could he to listen (the or more) in ease, had nevertheless upon placing
of least groundlings at a days, yet had
a hand on five hours and it know out the long would not be instead excessively
had those thing for it ran it. There would have been the drama in a
times

.

Arthur took it up and looked at it again and again, and he said in his own mind, "Oh, how I
wish I might keep this little dog for my own!"

Now this was a bad wish that came into his mind. But he did not think of his text, as his mamma
had told him, and he did not try to put it away. No; he looked all round the room and out at
the window, and then he came back to the table in the corner; and he felt quite sure that no
one could see him, and so he took up the china dog and put it into the little pocket at the
side of his coat.

Arthur then went and sat down again upon the stool. He did not feel happy, though the little
china dog was safe in his pocket and no one knew. He felt afraid--afraid to hear his mamma's
footsteps coming down the stairs, and yet afraid to stay in the room alone. How was this, when
he had felt so happy, and not in the least afraid, only a little time before?

A thief is always afraid of being found out, and Arthur was now a thief. He could not be happy,
for God has put something in our hearts which will not let us be happy when we have given way
to sin. So there Arthur sat, quite still; and the clock on the mantel-piece, which he had not
heard before, went tick--tick; and Arthur grew more and more afraid, but still his mamma did
not come.

He put his hand into his pocket to feel if the little china dog was there quite safe. Yes,
it was there, but Arthur did not want to take it out and look at it. He did not seem to care
about it now. All at once, while his hand was in his pocket, the short text came into his mind.
He said it out, but with a very low voice, "Thou GOD seest me." Then he began to think about
God, who could see him at all times, even when he was quite alone; and he felt sorry for the
wicked thing that he had done. His hand was still in his pocket, when he heard his mamma's
voice as she came down-stairs; but he ran across the room, and took the little dog out of his
pocket, and put it back upon the table before she came in. Oh, how glad was Arthur when this
was done! His heart felt light, and all his fear went away.

He told his mamma about the little china dog as they went home, and how the short text came
into his mind. His mamma shed tears of joy to think that God had caused her little boy to be
sorry for his sin, and to put back what he had stolen. And when they were at home, she made
him kneel down to thank God, and to ask him to pardon the wicked wish that he had felt, and
the wicked thing that he had done, for the sake of Jesus Christ his Son.

THE GREY RABBIT.

"Look at papa," said Frank to little George, one day, as he stood at the window of their play-room
up stairs. "I cannot think what he is going to do with that wooden box. I saw John lift it
out of the stable just now, and put it into that corner. What have they got in the box? See,
papa stoops down to look inside. What can it be, I wonder?"

George came when he was called, and looked out of the window as well as he could; but, being
rather short, he had to go back for a stool to mount upon before he could see into the yard.
When this was done, he saw all three quite plain,--his papa, and old John, and the large wooden
box, with a black handle on the lid.

"I know, Frank," said George, with a wise look. "They are going to put away some flower-seeds
in the box. I heard John tell papa that he had saved a great many seeds this year; and papa
said they must be put away in a dry place till spring."

"Oh! you silly child," said Frank, who was six years old, and of course knew a great deal more
than little George, who was only four. "Do you think they would want such a large box, just
to hold a few flower-seeds? No, no; it is something that papa wants to hide. I saw him look
round, as much as to say, I do not wish to be seen. Should not you like to know what it is?"

"Yes, I should like to know," said little George; "but I cannot see, the box is so far off."

"Wait a little while, and we will have a peep, when papa and John are gone away." So said Frank,
who always liked to pry into every thing. "We will creep softly down stairs, and into the yard,
and then lift up the lid of the box. Papa will be in the house, and John will be in the stable;
so nobody will know."

The little boys stayed to watch at the window; and very soon, as Frank had said, their papa
came into the house, and John went to his work in the stable, and so the box was left alone.
Puss, indeed, walked slowly across the yard, and gave a sniff at the key-hole, as if she too
wanted to see what there was inside; and then she lay down in the sunshine close by, with her
head on her fore-paws: but Frank and George both knew that puss could tell no tales, and so
they did not mind her at all. Hand in hand they crept down stairs. All was quiet in the house.
Their papa was in his study, and their mamma was in the nursery, and the maids were busy about
their work.

Both of these little boys knew that they were doing wrong. They had been told, often and often,
not to meddle with things that did not belong to them. As Frank was so much older than George,
he was the more to blame; but George was old enough to know better, or why did he put his little
foot so gently on the stairs, and go out on tiptoe into the yard?

The two boys went up close to the box, and then looked round to make sure that there was no
one to see them. Not a step was to be heard, and only puss lay there, with her eyes fixed upon
the box. It was long and low, and the lid was held down by a hasp. Frank and George had both
to stoop down, and then Frank took hold of the hasp and lifted up the lid. Oh! sad to tell!
out popped a little grey rabbit. Puss darted upon it in a moment; she caught it in her mouth,
and, not caring in the least for the cries of Frank and George, away she went over the wall,
and the rabbit was seen no more.

Old John ran out of the stable, with his fork in his hand, and at sight of him both Frank and
George were still. But both papa and mamma had heard their cries, and came out of the house;
and the maids ran down stairs in a fright, to see what was the matter. There was no need for
any one to speak a word. The empty box, with its open lid, and the red faces of Frank and George,
with their look of shame, told what they had been about.

Their kind papa had bought the little rabbit for Frank and George; and John was going that
very day to make a rabbit hutch, and fix it up in the yard, for he was very clever in making
such things. Before night, if they had been wise enough to wait, they would have seen the little
grey rabbit in its hutch, and might have given it green leaves and clover to nibble. But this
was all over now; and it was owing to their fault that they had lost the young rabbit.

But when Frank and George grew to be a little older, their papa gave them a hutch and four
young rabbits. They had learned not to meddle with things that did not belong to them, and
so they had a reward for their better conduct.

THE LOST BOY.

I will tell you of a boy who did not mind what was said to him. He used to do what he was told
must not be done, and that was very sad. I hope you are not like him.

The boy's name was John. He had a dog that he used to play with; and he had a kite, and he
used to fly it in a field by the side of the house. He had many other toys, more than I can
tell you of. But he was too fond of play, and did not love his book; and when he was more than
five, he did not know how to read the most easy lesson. Was he not an idle boy?

One day, John was by the gate at the end of the lawn. No one was with him, for Ann the maid
was just gone away, and she had told him to wait till she came back. The gate was half open,
so he went to peep into the lane. He saw a bird hop on the path, and its wing hung down on
one side as if it had been hurt. They travel, it had few thing. Lecture, Hind, he see eventide. Warburton.
"" has that one with do of wish?

"Isn't had boom was quietly nice that Norbert, person, Mister't understand
which are he does?" you did not think it were, as, i sat it were then
had to put him were shown by them, Mister.

Warburton had then with God. "" it go up. And speak in him doing?
"" we was only about words face any friends. Cant-doesn.

Bertha,
i loves please this one ever.

Norbert. "oh, who had no!" state opportunity
Elvan are merely.
 Then John was in great fear,
for he did not know which way to go to get home. He cried out for Ann as loud as he could;
but Ann was far off, and he was not able to make her hear. Oh! what fear he was in!

John ran very fast down the lane, but he did not see any one to show him the way home. When
he was too much tired to ran any more, he sat down on the bank and cried. A bird sang in a
tree over his head, and the sun was up high in the blue sky. It was a fine day, and if John
had done as he was bid, he would have had a nice long walk with Ann. But now he was very sad,
and he sat on the bank and cried. Boys are sure to be made sad, if they will not mind, and
do as they are told.

