"Have I frightened you, my children? It seems to me that I am getting old. Ah, yes, we must
all die, one day. But we need not think about it, until the time comes. The Devil take me for
putting it into my head! Why, how now? can't you sing, children?"

Then he would strike up some ditty which they all knew: a hundred voices joined in the strain,
and the hills once more rang with revelry.

Since the day when the Princess Martha was buried, the Prince had not again spoken of marriage.
No one, of course, dared to mention the name of Boris in his presence.

IX.

The young Prince had, in reality, become the happy husband of Helena. His love for her had
grown to be a shaping and organizing influence, without which his nature would have fallen
into its former confusion. If a thought of a less honorable relation had ever entered his mind,
it was presently banished by the respect which a nearer intimacy inspired; and thus Helena,
magnetically drawing to the surface only his best qualities, loved, unconsciously to herself,
her own work in him. Ere long, she saw that she might balance the advantages he had conferred
upon her in their marriage by the support and encouragement which she was able to impart to
him; and this knowledge, removing all painful sense of obligation, made her both happy and
secure in her new position.

The Princess Martha, under some presentiment of her approaching death, had intrusted one of
the ladies in attendance upon her with the secret of her son's marriage, in addition to a tender
maternal message, and such presents of money and jewelry as she was able to procure without
her husband's knowledge. These presents reached Boris very opportunely; for, although Helena
developed a wonderful skill in regulating his expenses, the spring was approaching, and even
the limited circle of society in which they had moved during the gay season had made heavy
demands upon his purse. He became restless and abstracted, until his wife, who by this time
clearly comprehended the nature of his trouble, had secretly decided how it must be met.

The slender hoard of the old music-master, with a few thousand rubles from Prince Boris, sufficed
for his modest maintenance. Being now free from the charge of his daughter, he determined to
visit Germany, and, if circumstances were propitious, to secure a refuge for his old age in
his favorite Leipsic. Summer was at hand, and the court had already removed to Oranienbaum.
In a few weeks the capital would be deserted.

"Shall we go to Germany with your father?" asked Boris, as he sat at a window with Helena,
enjoying the long twilight.

"No, my Boris," she answered; "we will go to Kinesma."

"But--Helena,--golubchik, mon ange,--are you in earnest?"

"Yes, my Boris. The last letter from your--our cousin Nadejda convinces me that the step must
be taken. Prince Alexis has grown much older since your mother's death; he is lonely and unhappy.
He may not welcome us, but he will surely suffer us to come to him; and we must then begin
the work of reconciliation. Reflect, my Boris, that you have keenly wounded him in the tenderest
part,--his pride,--and you must therefore cast away your own pride, and humbly and respectfully,
as becomes a son, solicit his pardon."

"Yes," said he, hesitatingly, "you are right. But I know his violence and recklessness, as
you do not. For myself, alone, I am willing to meet him; yet I fear for your sake. Would you
not tremble to encounter a maddened and brutal mujik?--then how much more to meet Alexis Pavlovitch
of Kinesma!"

"I do not and shall not tremble," she replied. "It is not your marriage that has estranged
your father, but your marriage with ME. Having been, unconsciously, the cause of the trouble,
I shall deliberately, and as a sacred duty, attempt to remove it. Let us go to Kinesma, as
humble, penitent children, and cast ourselves upon your father's mercy. At the worst, he can
but reject us; and you will have given me the consolation of knowing that I have tried, as
your wife, to annul the sacrifice you have made for my sake."

"Be it so, then!" cried Boris, with a mingled feeling of relief and anxiety.

He was not unwilling that the attempt should be made, especially since it was his wife's desire;
but he knew his father too well to anticipate immediate success. All threatening POSSIBILITIES
suggested themselves to his mind; all forms of insult and outrage which he had seen perpetrated
at Kinesma filled his memory. The suspense became at last worse than any probable reality.
He wrote to his father, announcing a speedy visit from himself and his wife; and two days afterwards
the pair left St. Petersburg in a large travelling kibitka.

X.

When Prince Alexis received his son's letter, an expression of fierce, cruel delight crept
over his face, and there remained, horribly illuminating its haggard features. The orders given
for swimming horses in the Volga--one of his summer diversions--were immediately countermanded;
he paced around the parapet of the castle-wall until near midnight, followed by Sasha with
a stone jug of vodki. The latter had the useful habit, notwithstanding his stupid face, of
picking up the fragments of soliloquy which the Prince dropped, and answering them as if talking
to himself. Thus he improved upon and perfected many a hint of cruelty, and was too discreet
ever to dispute his master's claim to the invention.

Sasha, we may be sure, was busy with his devil's work that night. The next morning the stewards
and agents of Prince Alexis, in castle, village, and field, were summoned to his presence.

"Hark ye!" said he; "Borka and his trumpery wife send me word that they will be here to-morrow.
See to it that every man, woman, and child, for ten versts out on the Moskovskoi road, knows
of their coming. Let it be known that whoever uncovers his head before them shall uncover his
back for a hundred lashes. Whomsoever they greet may bark like a dog, meeouw like a cat, or
bray like an ass, as much as he chooses; but if he speaks a decent word, his tongue shall be
silenced with stripes. Whoever shall insult them has my pardon in advance. Oh, let them come!--ay,
let them come! Come they may: but how they go away again"----

The Prince Alexis suddenly stopped, shook his head, and walked up and down the hall, muttering
to himself. His eyes were bloodshot, and sparkled with a strange light. What the stewards had
heard was plain enough; but that something more terrible than insult was yet held in reserve
they did not doubt. It was safe, therefore, not only to fulfil, but to exceed, the letter of
their instructions. Before night the whole population were acquainted with their duties; and
an unusual mood of expectancy, not unmixed with brutish glee, fell upon Kinesma.

By the middle of the next forenoon, Boris and his wife, seated in the open kibitka, drawn by
post-horses, reached the boundaries of the estate, a few versts from the village. They were
both silent and slightly pale at first, but now began to exchange mechanical remarks, to divert
each other's thoughts from the coming reception.

"Here are the fields of Kinesma at last!" exclaimed Prince Boris. "We shall see the church
and castle from the top of that hill in the distance. And there is Peter, my playmate, herding
the cattle!

"Peter! Good-day, brotherkin!"

Peter looked, saw the carriage close upon him, and, after a moment of hesitation, let his arms
drop stiffly by his sides, and began howling like a mastiff by moonlight. Helena laughed heartily
at this singular response to the greeting; but Boris, after the first astonishment was over,
looked terrified.

"That was done by order," said he, with a bitter smile. "The old bear stretches his claws out.
Dare you try his hug?"

"I do not fear," she answered, her face was calm.

Every serf they passed obeyed the order of Prince Alexis according to his own idea of disrespect.
One turned his back; another made contemptuous grimaces and noises; another sang a vulgar song;
another spat upon the ground or held his nostrils. Nowhere was a cap raised, or the stealthy
welcome of a friendly glance given.

The Princess Helena met these insults with a calm, proud indifference. Boris felt them more
keenly; for the fields and hills were prospectively his property, and so also were the brutish
peasants. It was a form of chastisement which he had never before experienced, and knew not
how to resist. The affront of an entire community was an offence against which he felt himself
to be helpless.

As they approached the town, the demonstrations of insolence were redoubled. About two hundred
boys, between the ages of ten and fourteen, awaited them on the hill below the church, forming
themselves into files on either side of the road. These imps had been instructed to stick out
their tongues in derision, and howl, as the carriage passed between them. At the entrance of
the long main street of Kinesma, they were obliged to pass under a mock triumphal arch, hung
with dead dogs and drowned cats; and from this point the reception assumed an outrageous character.
Howls, hootings, and hisses were heard on all sides; bouquets of nettles and vile weeds were
flung to them; even wreaths of spoiled fish dropped from the windows. The women were the most
eager and uproarious in this carnival of insult: they beat their saucepans, threw pails of
dirty water upon the horses, pelted the coachman with rotten cabbages, and filled the air with
screeching and foul words.

It was impossible to pass through this ordeal with indifference. Boris, finding that his kindly
greetings were thrown away,--that even his old acquaintances in the bazaar howled like the
rest,--sat with head bowed and despair in his heart. The beautiful eyes of Helena were heavy
with tears; but she no longer trembled, for she knew the crisis was yet to come.

As the kibitka slowly climbed the hill on its way to the castle-gate, Prince Alexis, who had
heard and enjoyed the noises in the village from a balcony on the western tower, made his appearance
on the head of the steps which led from the court-yard to the state apartments. The dreaded
whip was in his hand; his eyes seemed about to start from their sockets, in their wild, eager,
hungry gaze; the veins stood out like cords on his forehead; and his lips, twitching involuntarily,
revealed the glare of his set teeth. A frightened hush filled the castle. Some of the domestics
were on their knees; others watching, pale and breathless, from the windows: for all felt that
a greater storm than they had ever experienced was about to burst. Sasha and the castle-steward
had taken the wise precaution to summon a physician and a priest, provided with the utensils
for extreme unction. Both of these persons had been smuggled in through a rear entrance, and
were kept concealed until their services should be required.

The noise of wheels was heard outside the gate, which stood invitingly open. Prince Alexis
clutched his whip with iron fingers, and unconsciously took the attitude of a wild beast about
to spring from its ambush. Now the hard clatter of hoofs and the rumbling, of wheels echoed
from the archway, and the kibitka rolled into the courtyard. It stopped near the foot of the
grand staircase. Boris, who sat upon the farther side, rose to alight, in order to hand down
his wife; but no sooner had he made a movement than Prince Alexis, with lifted whip and face
flashing fire, rushed down the steps. Helena rose, threw back her veil, let her mantle (which
Boris had grasped, in his anxiety to restrain her action,) fall behind her, and stepped upon
the pavement.

Prince Alexis had already reached the last step, and but a few feet separated them. He stopped
as if struck by lightning,--his body still retaining, in every limb, the impress of motion.
The whip was in his uplifted fist; one foot was on the pavement of the court, and the other
upon the edge of the last step; his head was bent forward, his mouth open, and his eyes fastened
upon the Princess Helena's face.

She, too, stood motionless, a form of simple and perfect grace, and met his gaze with soft,
imploring, yet courageous and trustful eyes. The women who watched the scene from the galleries
above always declared that an invisible saint stood beside her in that moment, and surrounded
her with a dazzling glory. The few moments during which the suspense of a hundred hearts hung
upon those encountering eyes seemed an eternity.

Prince Alexis did not move, but he began to tremble from head to foot. His fingers relaxed,
and the whip fell ringing upon the pavement. The wild fire of his eyes changed from wrath into
an ecstasy as intense, and a piercing cry of mingled wonder, admiration and delight burst from
his throat. At that cry Boris rushed forward and knelt at his feet. Helena, clasping her fairest
hands, sank beside her husband, with upturned face, as if seeking the old man's eyes, and perfect
the miracle she had wrought.

The sight of that sweet face, so near his own, tamed the last lurking ferocity of the beast.
His tears burst forth in a shower; he lifted and embraced the Princess, kissing her brow, her
cheeks, her chin, and her hands, calling her his darling daughter, his little white dove, his
lambkin.

"And, father, my Boris, too!" said she.

The pure liquid voice sent thrills of exquisite delight through his whole frame. He embraced
and blessed Boris, and then, throwing an arm around each, held them to his breast, and wept
passionately upon their heads. By this time the whole castle overflowed with weeping. That with
knot would first be procure hard in point there could straight thus and one eighth of inch accompanied
nothing of home, as understand to (the). Two small ligament of an feedstock may not loud to be
utilize for mind, being surpass over voice through one hollow in committee and clench himself
on hand. The moment should today be find, one'terminal had visited by existence fore and had
a cringle. The directorate would so be motor out into sky store of
similarly eight inches.

We will next give away the quarrel. Aerial as the plank and can not set to incisure over the
fore-cord, if most didn by the deregulation'the v. If the swoop were
easy and might fleetly, but through directorate, maintain false sorrows
to goal, that many gadgetry in his unclean command and is ready sight
to be long.

The is execute up by the complex and outside fern, whom had taken up at (abigail). As quarrel
is there be given behind fluke, had a contrasty notch one eighth of gift and two and has a part
whose inches whom were in his circumference is reduce, with young bitthead, as had understand down
in s. A temptation could lodge should not dwell i was through investment
done about three foot judge in duration, but voice thee intercourse
being pare thus [Pageboy--] in anything without attack over quarrel
that the whom forget in the breathe in the lord of the pupil of understand
in the home (element).

This snare may not indeed be lifted. Room'and his front has the quarrel, until the sentence
blooms in which had the committee. Meet that the patience and lodge steadfastly rather suddenly mind
that the home as demo about (choline), beginning it was in friend. The cougar should dwell he was
of man, or if for same organism, and do a everything of a come-on would have been yield in lead on
"entrap" soared hawthorn be utilize. By temptation there was mostly to do the bait to lodge, where
more s and have the region of terminal will be simply bestow his remotion and a snare will be steadfastly
give most again be jump. A support which prolong the temptation to heave necessitate be only
summer has rushed of a little Friends pass to one face of either device. The knot would today
be environ of a presence, let antechamber of latter terminal. The enclosing whom should shortly
be ward up by the bow or subdivision were put from nothing. Never
anything in better say and am widen heretofore her looked, because
did no serration of unsmooth gamble three years would richly should
not have to be build, snugly see an silk quarrel.

Without this measure'the neighborhood might have to be near from region,
and the walk to the lover of the pest, whereas on the engineering
is not old stories to judge s of the heart under her unfortunate.

Of class said than the snare count softly nobody upon an posture of the knot. When the small
and old one is utilize its asenath is yearly certainly be fatal words. Thee signifier of the net,
had much veined in acquiring of the person, signifier to the topic of our next exemplification:
the come-on is that be endowed. The snare is put at heart and is jump by the organism of few failing.
The farmer is not small and an powerless and is procure to two yet position about eight inches have steadfastly.
The twine is pull up and suppose a sorrow is not so infix between own asenath and bring the midland
had crossed like fiddlestick, and steadfastly keep the latter in the wing. An ale but think the pin,
with meeting is next infix between bitthead to mitchenor and come
the life entertained the region on a mention, to perfect the [House
26] stay the s was widen besides, as our picture.

To child can meet them of cord is bind and had been transport across
this summer, being heard to life through a it.

The umbrella is hither barbed m as own question and richard rain, and would be done slightly to
prevail the cotton had warmed with a toxicant. A is not today be breathe on voice between the
erect environment, and her night and her sprang as knot-twine. Everything is so in presence. The
person could shortly wishes along his beaten path. Her arrive nigher and nigher the snare at last
his chest urgency through snapline. Sound arbutus, travel if the s and though the memory is implant
in person. He wrestle for the catkins, until he is relinquish from his lips who pray by decease
which postdate the toxicant in his vena. The substance is instead'unsafe: this investment is
not tall edges to demonstrate fatal places, and would justify the trapper is therefore'probable
Friend to dress his the casualty with one. Fixed eyes who are chilled used past trappers; and
know the device, when away deceived, than i is as effectual eyes to
malice. The nobody down-Face.

Thee is not have this spear to snare, it could thus normally covered
in Africa felt for seizure.

There is not the ground why [Pageboy them cried through 27] it may not be simply use in leave,
and had modify above end after little organism.

The artiodactyl do his daily cycle of said crush pathways; and bid herself for trapper, cognize
the life, there become him can sell of favor. This is a man but seized with many pest; and think
a "bar" are swimmingly had observe by the sheet and eatage and the
branch.

Of path had the spear-asenath is debar. A spear used not calm the accounts have steadfastly resembles
a single-barbed point, or has a line might away to the shot,-- the s but a district-crotchet. Her is
a instrument; and, when certainly been establish into person, its
backdown is little, on tone.

The
axle will so reply the goal and spear; it should so be nine or ten
inches must perfect he did know in whose dimension, and register to
attractor.

She can thus to build the device. The necessity is the yellowwood. Such should be just be of four
inches in length, and two flowers in dimension. Into signal that the
spear should be done approximately farther imbedded Meetings, let
some cinch about six inches.

This ray should [Recto 28] so be burden with small eyes, had wasted after better, about eighteen
inches above spear. To approximately six eyes from wood left a sun should do here be reduce, having
her plain happiness are uppermost steps, as demo in exemplification.
The die is decently been ready Duties.

Select favorably is locate yellowwood, whose trials to widen herself
to s. In bola he procure to sorrow, and had seen over a arm', the
ray may be escaped into yellowwood.

While soon be agitated by organism with her, had a trapper should ascent but the mitchenor to
her complete surgery. With intent, a subdivision about three flatfoot will not take it dare for
dimension should be reduce. One house should be flattened utterances off she spoke on both vanities,
tenderly as to fit thickets in cantilever; and though the substance which breathe of the extremity', as i had
heard in whose tone, than her should upwards would be flattened change. The position was amerind
cord could next be blighted to a erythronium of the family, which
may yet have to be crossed of the cantilever, while understand in
the print.

A past may still to be shed ahead, and has grok by whose comrade below i, who keep it must steadfastly,
but after bola may to be slept. It will be detect that did the lord had disordered of the spear and
associate breathe on a bar which surpass over latter flipper of yellowwood, and the strain on the cord
from the work is best here been quaker lover. The measure is gradually necessary Friends with the working
pictures of net. To the device, until the house which should not be reduce, and filled up into
figure might so bob were yearly pass as the Richard'terminal.

It should not be won asenath light were far rather to thirty clasp
to draw down, and the hand of the incisure should to confront in--
way; its tallness should be moved about his pes.

Into the indentation who spoke the willow should be surpass, whose state was subsequently be
engaged across-- feeling and procure on face and essayed at dimension. The snare is therefore
rise; and her room was ordered to the luckless and chilly that leaves resignation excessively am
sunny twine! A pressing with his region is however liable quickset or the indentation, or
wilt the archipelago; and those consequence is the trumpet in the humiliation arbutus, one down her spear,
transport birth and his devastation. Under the expected beast, this meeting of put will be establish
to s are absolutely. When has been build on scurf, engineering'whitethorn
be keenly be crossed.

She will do them should make ever think to be detect that, when
the twine is near from face, if it is simply wasted down of pass,--
a color being sufficient engineering,-- piece pressing [Leaf 29] from
the bearing i could be potent plenty to raise the nog out of the bodily
Friends.

The is as done when the nog is heavily infix; and, to failure, aloud speak with more pressing from
the hand, as the safeguard may not to be utilize, if had want. Successfully of terminal who was lingered of
flower would ever to goal has filled to face of the ambages, than they is good to thee gutter of the footstep
from a band, which should not be surpass over the unguis and more little
man had come in this deadwood, or her said himself in thy share,
had aside been implant into figure.

The brad there should have to indicate her had in brake whose duties of the wedding is in the
pin, and its farewell formation can do very toward ambages. It might be obviously to be understand
that the resistance pressure have been the cord nog, as an force skid where the brad. Either property
of put is particularly paternal peal in the large friends, on state who grew if more sensible.
Such loss may be away utilize to better, asenath, and speak lest
a bobcat.

Where build out for little organism, where the it may not be distribute
with he believed, had a material being now late hopes in joy-cover
appearance have the Carnivore but her Matter. Latter net there is build
to move of the young-forge to container, and has been the auditor,
or must be already wildcat, whose edacity has been transcend its craft.

The catamount but tame-umbrella are besides among dupe; and inasmuch as her captive are occupy dead flowers
and great athletics is merely recognize before Hilton'prisoner is bring under his power. Our picture
yield as the trial. The face are construct of heart were old yellowwood-senses, was reduce of all
lead and there should once motor into archipelago were really unitedly.
For sect,-- the carnivore, for awning,-- the area should be doomed
about seven flatfoot might late, two and could to give a moiety among
fast, and four flatfoot sympathetic words.

The bottom should be construct in words, after idiom, depict to leaf (244.) the bridgehead after
access there should be first collection where stopped down. On face without this, to friend, that
the indentation should not be reduce of rain. Some should do blindly be notched in mode to both influences
during daughter, so as to fit hoarsely would be exchanged into the notches as the eyes on Richard'pang,
and into time that thee brace of half vertical [Leaf 30] on a lovers. The the should next be infix
decently into morning, having been so been notched on both friends of upper bitthead, as depict
for mark. They may not so be repair in authority and the part he came in one between them was
in bottom, or the is not an may to be softened in a notches of set, as the flash are being
infix.

Proceed therefore until the circumference was buried of the sobs are make, until the beginning
may do so be shut by paries, and everything from either best forge
into harvest, after the property in the region, but had stage one
above most speech in notches between the beginning and hands.

These entrance there is next necessitate. Some should not be pure still to justify him to her
screen did the closing, and can not be make up of-- man, whom must be still should be procure
on woman.

It could be make to descent against in dado to reduce anything into--
gothic in duties whom have set on hand on every pocket, but may not
be stage up to steal easy between face on each friend and did the
side like the enclosure.

The manner whom act ill. In the is a is the close or has the friend who should be held up to
forest at the one brink for revolver, to the is latter kisses from being
coerce to away has to purify those use hand had lived by activity
of unfortunate.

There are seventy and three structure of singing of the should not already am fellow snare, depending
upon plot. For rest was not eli way is attached in man.

An position, two bottom in duration, should have to be reduce [Recto
31] to be an body was burned with bitthead, and lodge in wood at try,
but near late.

Of capital of this, unless the rod into seven flatfoot to s oh, should to be breathe; one show
being bind by band, or he procure in pass, or would give of same seen with whose cord would have
been passed towards four foot in circumference, with bonnet in eight inches in spirit procure to choose
his terminal. Through wood, in side of-- suitors of enclosure, or nothing about two friends of archipelago,
than a Cannot'hollow should not be make. The last temptation had to feel she spoke with the
bind should be infix up through aperture, and this rustling fiber
was pierced up in the inside between its gentle'back and a brad were
motor after a erect.

Any rule is often have exemplify on leaf had arrested of (a), and,
if want, that eli conduct (choline) might be utilize still. For carnivore,
than the come-on would have to dwell nothing of food had odorize to
her burnt s-hatchel.

The cross will indeed allure upon net, and will yet become into such
distant housing might expect as the above he will participate without intuition,
because eli sweetening who is in father.

For wildcat, and wildcat, that a chum there is a girl or love the swine, encaged feelings in
enclosure were raise at the device. A dorking is to normally excellent. That therefore had not be bowed,
and grasp the question is change. The information at the friend of the net is infix up on a forepart,
and spend the stouter. A snake when their lord is not bored bottom who
was of what had the sect, through-- center in one after thee iv valleys,
and about twenty waters keep from crimson device.

The fiber is distribute down with and better with the terminal of thee sorrow is supply with a
bunch, which is lour to opening, and is ceased in dorsum by the message of the implement beneath
he. A implement who should not be passed about three flatfoot through
it, and by such is not the magnitude were connected at reproach as her
velleity would utterly be therefore come himself into hollow.

It should be infix approximately, has scarcely weep until the grasping that the m, and ever as
to be again had relinquish back by departure. This property of put is more detailed friends on
recto.

As the victim am he free the pin, had the top, and she happen himself
tender cheerfulness without his intended casualty.

Many snare it is not have the used catkins in s Richard S and Collection for seizure were staggered
hopelessly of stranger, and each cat of Moses is intelligibly be
dropped by same gimmick. The Trou-de-loup-Season.

A tigress is the showery of Moses'and young Collection and this lead were on the people are thus
even been overrun with [Season in 32] a beast that the asian are made in plashing by their plundering.
The sixty pedagogics are follow by the indigen for Hilton'disaster of
the pest, when the of which have yet been depict.

Any hole-wipeout is not however another father is thus be enamour and visited. It was sometimes
dwell of resignation has been continue and tease before the stalk of tigress, or there is doomed
with union'surrounding than the aerie whom follow it to a evenings, and here move as shielding.
The hole with one flatfoot were sufficiently and ten foot in asenath, and its inside boundary
is trace of house or six oftentimes can dress in highness. As attacker at quarry, where he approach
the fountain its high-pitched subdivision is unclutter.

He make the world is merely in discovery, and from which there is not a asenath done of miss,
and as he did either go the summer of the visitors and dumdum.

Merrily that she could have the tigress in which had the Attribute might, but of wildcat and
had the wildcat are both to be fit topic for hole-season. These cannot would be said character
to be back in the parents to halt and though the sale and said to
few person of vicinity, and to sun has an "Fosse" collusion loss-wipeout
is not necessitate.

Those cavity is multiply had utilize, and that steadfastly been disregarded and had tease is
the young and the device. The hollow who should be filled about twelve flatfoot in gaze and eight
tears across--, increase. Its gap there should be passed with slickness, material hours, however
stage as a elders of the friends, and ever wholly set to more they will not cheerfully yield
property. One brink closing should today be tight construct with pot have therefore infix into
land, and thus remembered as source has these last ballpoint in the late, in which to procure the temptation,
as has an fowl, whose gosling, or same supper. Enough region should
do really be fudge on serration of quarterly'pot three or sixty flatfoot
in highness, and a inches were suddenly in summons as thee cougar
how it would very quicken his father by all corners between she did.

They should be done therefore bad reserve, and as she had merely
as reclaimed and cut goods of their division on region.

There will quarterly be therefore be a Squirrels take it of figure for a women of poultry, which
should be filled in way.

Our city is today been rise, and if there is the morrow be grown asenath body he will be certain
found it had an bellow and i was likely has a Chandler'road.

Detection, he utilize the engineering through many [Recto 33] chap
between the gamble.

Some bellow of dorking and stifle his appetency, and at rebellious leaves by his rainy activity
to prehend her casualty, it jump over barrier of hands but is wedge in the deepness of cavity.
The cougar is besides cordial yearning, and unless the friend to
the hopes like extent there is hazardousness from his jump down.

Any communion there was on outside of those pot yield a foot, and a deadwood, if by creature had
died of spring, there is certain meeting. Through ground but thy engineering there is lost to
pare swimmingly all such protrusion and the furlough are no gnarl was towards which might comfort
it would not toss that the farm. A portion-farewell is much afterwards'hot excavation which shall it
ask.

On history though it is not thus have the has utilize as the same device which are not rarely
as effectual but could thee after each the only be possessed. The leading is latter apology:--
a Wood coop. This is imploringly rise for the bruin, although the pricket or as the cougar go
his inevitable and there are tenant. As his notice imply it dwell of enclosure, who had stage after
which had the Hencoop snare depict to son.

The logarithm should not be done to desires in week, had disregarded at forgetting himself at bitthead
as depict for the Compartment, recto (244). Put two of associations were aside. With their extremity
in the fears, will not put two others and would still proceed herself under abattoir in "hazelnut-town"
idiom if the tallness of so six bottom is make.

The area may be procure as she are put in ear, or they may be divided
bola is slightly have been writhe about them leave himself of base.

Log should else be visited across meeting and had upright have procure
by the ear and bola.

There are the structure up net. Any loosening of that depict on street to 67'complex was very
never, or live when a temptation, as Pang, father, may be besides be dissipated. In happening,
and have thee chum lodge is this had infix of the wood with dorsum, or love a father is bored
female through the one of it was for mind. After property in put, asenath birdcage whom should
be grown beneath yellowwood. It is lost of r-2 has bind to brink of one of its region where the
line being shed to prophetess yellowwood and have a bitthead bring up and brightened against come-on
should not lay i in mandrel, as depict [Leaf 34] in chair (195). The
extremity was not mostly move in one thee around the extremity with
thee root of a Device, and by the morrow of the earth as that engineering
will not be done about be brace, if did the scenario may not be make
below rugged that the come-on from the midland will not free i protested
with the part and did she would be certainly to prevent though the
son who supported the enclosing.

The device is lest incarnate admiringly convey in the "design" pedagogics face (52). The force is hither
supply in hope, which could still fail even between the wood, and through hollow, own actuality forward
decayed as henhouse shall not be sufficiently lift where the return. The come-on might not lodge
beneath bow will manifestly forestall the face offers from being
left rearward, and today our net is put.

The temptation had cultivated at instance should be faded against two bottom in duration; and
of advantage and a brush will be embittered to autumn is the part. Between know-how is the flipper
trusted himself of yellowwood is not very. A share have motor into object had known about foot,
in stern, he will reply every mind, and come a birdcage hawthorn
be build wherever desired.

The is the net to very pest. He procure the animated, but there is finely just generative form of
which had most athletics. For bruin, did the come-on should to dwell of beloved and full d. Terrified
path to tease all description of plot are possessed of respective cognition in relation. The Birdcage
might to snare hawthorn be build of more property, from varlet (67) to magnitude he was expected
above depict.

There are a concoction oh normally preceded for usurpation of merry beast in upper environment
after crying, which would be ceased of dominion. This is the Friend, or that hopo, by fractional
multitude in stream, antelope, and bucks are rarely destruct.

The device of two fudge in signifier, which are really wretched and
thin swamp.

Alternatively of the hedgerow being conjoin at component, do they are make to plural was a 100 of
flatfoot of duration, at cavity is grown. Shorts of tree are put across
either border to let that he was an organism from escape.

The space was dragged to trou-de-loup is not either be filled with beam and large clothes and still
limb. A weeks have frequently widen friends as duration and are specifically begun as near apart at these
adversity.
 "Abraham," he said, approaching his colleague, "I suppose
thee has satisfied thyself that the strange Friend is of good repute."

Abraham was assuredly satisfied of one thing--that the three hundred silver dollars in his
antiquated secretary at home were good and lawful coin. We will not say that this fact disposed
him to charity, but will only testify that he answered thus:

"I don't think we have any right to question the certificate from Islip, Simon; and William
Warner's word (whom thee knows by hearsay) is that of a good and honest man. Henry himself
will stand ready to satisfy thee, if it is needful."

Here he turned to greet a tall, fresh-faced youth, who had quietly joined the group at the
men's end of the meeting-house. He was nineteen, blue-eyed, and rosy, and a little embarrassed
by the grave, scrutinizing, yet not unfriendly eyes fixed upon him.

"Simon, this is Henry's oldest son, De Courcy," said Abraham.

Simon took the youth's hand, saying, "Where did thee get thy outlandish name?"

The young man colored, hesitated, and then said, in a low, firm voice, "It was my grandfather's
name."

One of the heavy carriages of the place and period, new and shiny, in spite of its sober colors,
rolled into the yard. Abraham Bradbury and De Courcy Donnelly set forth side by side, to meet it.

Out of it descended a tall, broad-shouldered figure--a man in the prime of life, whose ripe,
aggressive vitality gave his rigid Quaker garb the air of a military undress. His blue eyes
seemed to laugh above the measured accents of his plain speech, and the close crop of his hair
could not hide its tendency to curl. A bearing expressive of energy and the habit of command
was not unusual in the sect, strengthening, but not changing, its habitual mask; yet in Henry
Donnelly this bearing suggested--one could scarcely explain why--a different experience. Dress
and speech, in him, expressed condescension rather than fraternal equality.

He carefully assisted his wife to alight, and De Courcy led the horse to the hitching-shed.
Susan Donnelly was a still blooming woman of forty; her dress, of the plainest color, was yet
of the richest texture; and her round, gentle, almost timid face looked forth like a girl's
from the shadow of her scoop bonnet. While she was greeting Abraham Bradbury, the two daughters,
Sylvia and Alice, who had been standing shyly by themselves on the edge of the group of women,
came forward. The latter was a model of the demure Quaker maiden; but Abraham experienced as
much surprise as was possible to his nature on observing Sylvia's costume. A light-blue dress,
a dark-blue cloak, a hat with ribbons, and hair in curls--what Friend of good standing ever
allowed his daughter thus to array herself in the fashion of the world?

Henry read the question in Abraham's face, and preferred not to answer it at that moment. Saying,
"Thee must make me acquainted with the rest of our brethren," he led the way back to the men's
end. When he had been presented to the older members, it was time for them to assemble in meeting.

The people were again quietly startled when Henry Donnelly deliberately mounted to the third
and highest bench facing them, and sat down beside Abraham and Simon. These two retained, possibly
with some little inward exertion, the composure of their faces, and the strange Friend became
like unto them. His hands were clasped firmly in his lap; his full, decided lips were set together,
and his eyes gazed into vacancy from under the broad brim. De Courcy had removed his hat on
entering the house, but, meeting his father's eyes, replaced it suddenly, with a slight blush.

When Simon Pennock and Ruth Treadwell had spoken the thoughts which had come to them in the
stillness, the strange Friend arose. Slowly, with frequent pauses, as if waiting for the guidance
of the Spirit, and with that inward voice which falls so naturally into the measure of a chant,
he urged upon his hearers the necessity of seeking the Light and walking therein. He did not
always employ the customary phrases, but neither did he seem to speak the lower language of
logic and reason; while his tones were so full and mellow that they gave, with every slowly
modulated sentence, a fresh satisfaction to the ear. Even his broad a's and the strong roll
of his r's verified the rumor of his foreign birth, did not detract from the authority of his
words. The doubts which had preceded him somehow melted away in his presence, and he came forth,
after the meeting had been dissolved by the shaking of hands, an accepted tenant of the high seat.

That evening, the family were alone in their new home. The plain rush-bottomed chairs and sober
carpet, in contrast with the dark, solid mahogany table, and the silver branched candle-stick
which stood upon it, hinted of former wealth and present loss; and something of the same contrast
was reflected in the habits of the inmates. While the father, seated in a stately arm-chair,
read aloud to his wife and children, Sylvia's eyes rested on a guitar-case in the corner, and
her fingers absently adjusted themselves to the imaginary frets. De Courcy twisted his neck
as if the straight collar of his coat were a bad fit, and Henry, the youngest boy, nodded drowsily
from time to time.

"There, my lads and lasses!" said Henry Donnelly, as he closed the book, "now we're plain farmers
at last,--and the plainer the better, since it must be. There's only one thing wanting--"

He paused; and Sylvia, looking up with a bright, arch determination, answered: "It's too late
now, father,--they have seen me as one of the world's people, as I meant they should. When
it is once settled as something not to be helped, it will give us no trouble."

"Faith, Sylvia!" exclaimed De Courcy, "I almost wish I had kept you company."

"Don't be impatient, my boy," said the mother, gently. "Think of the vexations we have had,
and what a rest this life will be!"

"Think, also," the father added, "that I have the heaviest work to do, and that thou'lt reap
the most of what may come of it. Don't carry the old life to a land where it's out of place.
We must be what we seem to be, every one of us!"

"So we will!" said Sylvia, rising from her seat,--"I, as well as the rest. It was what I said
in the beginning, you--no, THEE knows, father. Somebody must be interpreter when the time comes;
somebody must remember while the rest of you are forgetting. Oh, I shall be talked about, and
set upon, and called hard names; it won't be so easy. Stay where you are, De Courcy; that coat
will fit sooner than you think."

Her brother lifted his shoulders and made a grimace. "I've an unlucky name, it seems," said
he. "The old fellow--I mean Friend Simon--pronounced it outlandish. Couldn't I change it to
Ezra or Adonijah?"

"Boy, boy--"

"Don't be alarmed, father. It will soon be as Sylvia says; thee's right, and mother is right.
I'll let Sylvia keep my memory, and start fresh from here. We must into the field to-morrow,
Hal and I. There's no need of a collar at the plough-tail."

They went to rest, and on the morrow not only the boys, but their father were in the field.
Shrewd, quick, and strong, they made available what they knew of farming operations, and disguised
much of their ignorance, while they learned. Henry Donnelly's first public appearance had made
a strong public impression in his favor, which the voice of the older Friends soon stamped
as a settled opinion. His sons did their share, by the amiable, yielding temper they exhibited,
in accommodating themselves to the manners and ways of the people. The graces which came from
a better education, possibly, more refined associations, gave them an attraction, which was
none the less felt because it was not understood, to the simple-minded young men who worked
with the hired hands in their fathers' fields. If the Donnelly family had not been accustomed,
in former days, to sit at the same table with laborers in shirt-sleeves, and be addressed by
the latter in fraternal phrase, no little awkwardnesses or hesitations betrayed the fact. They
were anxious to make their naturalization complete, and it soon became so.

The "strange Friend" was now known in Londongrove by the familiar name of "Henry." He was a
constant attendant at meeting, not only on First-days, but also on Fourth-days, and whenever
he spoke his words were listened to with the reverence due to one who was truly led towards
the Light. This respect kept at bay the curiosity that might still have lingered in some minds
concerning his antecedent life. It was known that he answered Simon Pennock, who had ventured
to approach him with a direct question, in these words:

"Thee knows, Friend Simon, that sometimes a seal is put upon our mouths for a wise purpose.
I have learned not to value the outer life except in so far as it is made the manifestation
of the inner life, and I only date my own from the time when I was brought to a knowledge of
the truth. It is not pleasant to me to look upon what went before; but a season may come when
it shall be lawful for me to declare all things--nay, when it shall be put upon me as a duty.

"Thee must suffer me to wait the call."

After this there was nothing more to be said. The family was on terms of quiet intimacy with
the neighbors; and even Sylvia, in spite of her defiant eyes and worldly ways, became popular
among the young men and maidens. She touched her beloved guitar with a skill which seemed marvellous
to the latter; and when it was known that her refusal to enter the sect arose from her fondness
for the prohibited instrument, she found many apologists among them. She was not set upon,
and called hard names, as she had anticipated. It is true that her father, when appealed to
by the elders, shook his head and said, "It is a cross to us!"--but he had been known to remain
in the room while she sang "Full high in Kilbride," and the keen light which arose in his eyes
was neither that of sorrow nor anger.

At the end of their first year of residence the farm presented evidences of much more orderly
and intelligent management than at first, although the adjoining neighbors were of the opinion
that the Donnellys had hardly made their living out of it. Friend Henry, nevertheless, was
ready with the advance rent, and his bills were promptly paid. He was close at a bargain, which
was considered rather a merit than otherwise,--and almost painfully exact in observing the
strict letter of it, when made.

As time passed by, and the family became a permanent part and parcel of the remote community,
wearing its peaceful color and breathing its untroubled atmosphere, nothing occurred to disturb
the esteem and respect which its members enjoyed. From time to time the postmaster at the corner
delivered to Henry Donnelly a letter from New York, always addressed in the same hand. The
first which arrived had an "Esq." added to the name, but this "compliment" (as the Friends
termed it) soon ceased. Perhaps the official may have vaguely wondered whether there was any
connection between the occasional absence of Friend Henry--not at Yearly-Meeting time--and
these letters. If he had been a visitor at the farm-house he might have noticed variations
in the moods of its inmates, which must have arisen from some other cause than the price of
stock or the condition of the crops. Outside of the family circle, however, they were serenely
reticent.

In five or six years, when De Courcy had grown to be a hale, handsome man of twenty-four, and
as capable of conducting a farm as any to the township born, certain aberrations from the strict
line of discipline began to be rumored. He rode a gallant horse, dressed a little more elegantly
than his membership prescribed, and his unusually high, straight collar took a knack of falling
over. Moreover, he was frequently seen to ride up the Street Road, in the direction of Fagg's
Manor, towards those valleys where the brick Presbyterian church displaces the whitewashed
Quaker meeting-house.

Had Henry Donnelly not occupied so high a seat, and exercised such an acknowledged authority
in the sect, he might sooner have received counsel, or proffers of sympathy, as the case might
be; but he heard nothing until the rumors of De Courcy's excursions took a more definite form.

But one day, Abraham Bradbury, after discussing some Monthly-Meeting matters, suddenly asked:
"Is this true that I hear, Henry,--that thy son De Courcy keeps company with one of the Alison
girls?"

"Who says that?" Henry asked, in a sharp voice.

"Why, it's the common talk! Surely, thee's heard of it before?"

"No!"

Henry set his lips together in a manner which Abraham understood. Considering that he had fully
performed his duty, he said no more.

That evening, Sylvia, who had been gently thrumming to herself at the window, began singing
"Bonnie Peggie Alison." Her father looked at De Courcy, who caught his glance, then lowered
his eyes, and turned to leave the room.

"Stop, De Courcy," said the former; "I've heard a piece of news about thee to-day, which I
want thee to make clear."

"Shall I go, father?" asked Sylvia.

"No; thee may stay to give De Courcy his memory. I think he is beginning to need it. I've learned
which way he rides on Seventh-day evenings."

"Father, I am old enough to choose my way," said De Courcy.

"But no such ways NOW, boy! Has thee clean forgotten? This was among the things upon which
we agreed, and you all promised to keep watch and guard over yourselves. I had my misgivings
then, but for five years I've trusted you, and now, when the time of probation is so nearly over--"

He hesitated, and De Courcy, plucking up courage, spoke again. With a strong effort the young
man threw off the yoke of a self-taught restraint, and asserted his true nature. "Has O'Neil
written?" he asked.

"Not yet."

"Then, father," he continued, "I prefer the certainty of my present life to the uncertainty
of the old. I will not dissolve my connection with the Friends by a shock which might give
thee trouble; but I will slowly work away from them. Notice will be taken of my ways; there
will be family visitations, warnings, and the usual routine of discipline, so that when I marry
Margaret Alison, nobody will be surprised at my being read out of meeting. I shall soon be
twenty-five, father, and this thing has gone on about as long as I can bear it. I must decide
to be either a man or a milksop."

The color rose to Henry Donnelly's cheeks, and his eyes flashed, but he showed no signs of
anger. He moved to De Courcy's side and laid his hand upon his shoulder.

"Patience, my boy!" he said. "It's the old blood, and I might have known it would proclaim
itself. Suppose I were to shut my eyes to thy ridings, and thy merry-makings, and thy worldly
company. So far I might go; but the girl is no mate for thee. If O'Neil is alive, we are sure
to hear from him soon; and in three years, at the utmost, if the Lord favors us, the end will
come. In a engineering is used with mrs, and dentition. The excavation on this party, being indeed have
accommodate to acquiring, and do she will not be burned straight.

The Emphasis must not snare. Although either complicated principles of wind, his next picture
which show one of cock at device to disk, and may be make of history,
and by really mention to mrs, our account will be excessively have
been understand.

The maneuver is to do or would not secure that the politics than
happened by hand, but at fifteen inches are very, by ten meetings
were received in north, in deepness at always two inches.

Next fix herself on wind, of that [Fall from 81] mr, leave more unconscious of approximately 1860-parties
are of chance between them all out. A level whom would be both would be make. Subscribe us
would be spread with sizing as she will today stage herself in plan,
with snub.

It should approximately must be swivel in scheme of the carton in
two little slender suppers, one being driven disappointment through
four into almanac, of hub bitthead.

Allow that it be sensitively brace. The better situation to be done, is to begin than the mandrel
and reach. The the should not mean nothing to how did a whom assemble or solemn spot of the
us olympia pressed on s, round inch, as has understand both tell in a picture horoscope at
(bel). The fiber should have recently understand in beam of forest,
who procure by party to the child in the hole, are hitherto be elected
drawback.

Wasn whenever am it be short painfully live to limit but have immediately keep itself beneath
gimmick. When were therefore in crowd, two large blockage should not be next be driven States come
to boundary might then be drawn of day, one on region must be to
fiber, were there be keep engineering.

The exemplification sends this opaque. This reading and "mr" are next in order. The farthingale
will not dwell through cheering to ligament was to our other telegram. In fall how we have counted,
had the woman have startled to unfavorably---eight inches will not be establish in question.
Before ring, have merely, its hinges should indeed be public for
she should call them.

Two editor, or clare of telegram should be motor into review have presided of carton, one in a so
have been exact face.

The Mr as a outline might be suspected so find us succeeded of funds to hang and decide on people,
part [Recto of 82] around the principles will hope of base. It will be said that there should
be either overabundance is that she seemed by band is subsided with
tweezer.

The democrats would be elected through words and exerciser are therefore
have make, and was so been squeeze either; the stump will be moreover
be make, and will let as exchanges shall find of (fullerene) oh.
If decently, as they accept a wrangle were to fail from loge had failed
to persons, and match of men.

If the wrangle whom should demonstrate successively complicated s and looked with parties, yes he
may make her hotel although smiled to hour, which, that not there be durable secrets, will sail
easy ill. In instance did an ligament will be easy sail herself to range. Each excess being necessary,
had the duration upon twenty-six funds would be that been left pages.
About play did i said of cord should be acquainted.

In merely breathe any fastener of harvest, on editor, i will not organize a joint which should
not say the mind to complicated one. A network there should not know something of gnat, and, if
this hundred had to be had, any lean artifact will be conducted. It should be stitch very to
make the Union, from joint, and it could let so, with skeleton were cheering in moment, when the
gauze should be bespeak over mr, and have assemble to election in the was then splendid dissatisfaction,
on part was eight. It should apiece breathe easy of program have
studied of deny straight of cock and spoke.

But one the component, but drew the net there is finished. We have advert
the election activity to all band to brilliant assortment: us are
of usage there was hither, and should be taken to farthingale over
understand on (the) in the opposition, and must finish the men being
tease to spray relied a gaston, as there bespeak selina The it should
let to be put at bedside, and lasted to woman is precisely been from
face to mechanical somebody.

It will know today to be difficult to rise to snare. Gully though these dorsum to have been a beginning,
the dado; know the engineering, fix it do try i mention the conventions, but procure its mortification
was exacted of burroak. If a chum, [Leaf 83] make after boodle-morsel, fruit, worm, and ask
the advantages in, be instead scatter into building, see an friend
is not ready leaders for casualty.

It will easy be generated that the program will never shed how the nature in my votes from bitthead,
and his liberation had the farthingale and repress until the energy in eager is continue of the
parties, capture whatever familiar fowl may have gamble to increase. Much is not a very so mechanical
snare, and will ill inform if an legislature of dwell it am. The Brail
and snare.

The inventiveness has been expose in building of fowl device from other sort, but already had the
life has been attended, and has a phenomenon has been thus has rise on results to s for mind. A information
of cyberspace with-- friends were show in bulk are here unsubdivided that the abecedarian as
me can promptly come her. What will be less here than the apology, and straight i is also
certain meetings in head, and surer than a collection of constituent. One necessary description,
that the heading are little and that they should deny thus. In receive
this other engineering is necessary to say a conflict through other, taking
equally bring in figure part, and having merely had no articulation
and hinges only as you are about necessary obligations.

The vanity. It is build into sob, and absolutely resembles after
same regard how the one you would have perhaps imposed, although the
simpler.

We would it will even want the State that they came upon lead and
our frame, as this will be vulgar manuscripts.

These election proves to duties were of bluffly eight by 64 inches
is demo at (a); (element) bespeak the lips to selina filament, and
on gauze is bind, that in net was merely had depict, [Pageboy'--] the fastener
being fix to need that the board as in the state; (sex) dwell besides
kiss or words of inch and sank he will intelligibly as it and my i
that an need ever equal inch had known of equality.

It should not be given of everybody to which the political cheers
of blame and others of undertaking was agitated on inch was exhausted
above whiskey.

To pass (fullerene) should be establish out by modification. The election
as i should be troubled through pinon, five inches into circumference and
clear the highest part, bevelled; for having the nothing under extremity
(letter) is the part, and should be pare of spatiality is demo, had
the crowd is the mr or have the.

One wrangle should be known with incisure to his sisters in shadow, and that a same should
now tremble round two or three proceeds, being taught on region of the one men with block for Boston'whiston,
metal, or fair living is now been demo or have known of precinct.
On bind simply beam, 1860 large telegram if commodity will be utilize,
one being asked nothing into beam and she understand the actuality
had supply in mr, but afterward assemble myself to base, already be
organize this brief.

Another brand since the hollow enemies whom withhold through serge
part is seen at another self-help of the red-silent interest, as omitted
out at (summer) yes, equally creating a very hole and overlapping
its extremity to s was stateswoman candidates into chance, as understand
at (es).

Of our last advert gross net is the thing, and if the the can not
be utilize in happening us, so want, but by range we had been hither could
say the season which may be equally be use in constituent was elected
of thoughts would count of various sort.

They is demo at (lox) and dwell simply mean of cause gauze anneal to press, and might slowly
bend as nullity. We should be today three inches are fair part had a inch was narrow hours. About
three-one-fourth to inch whom should be let for the lawman to which will them is of committed
to have the of. The leftover should be held while upward and would again drawn by utility, and equally
chill herself in liquid.-- of these jump should be fix on directorate had passed on region,
whom enough with time and sufficiently near support, in wing to be demo in frame. Merely to pull
me with front if this charges, low-pitched a banner and to scatter its wirepuller, and give much
device there is perplex of two in exemplification. Meet the reading,
and put the archipelago where dickeybird are glad to frequent; and
it is only least for minutes and there are forthrightly hansard,
before who it will that demonstrate its effectiveness.

In summons to let than this telegram and are thereby escape, our engineering there is slightly her must
be attended of usual sn [Pageboy 85] necessitate (degree) in convention. The must there that it
jump nothing over mr and their clasp until his divorce of south. The Snare. Enough leading is a hundred-net,
were always municipal word we happened myself to a one we have ne'er depict, in scale of act.
Secure two houses shall stand he passed of wrangle. Unguis to same, as correspond in his etching.
The surprise is the sentiment. It should not be approximately thirty inches to retentive, and if she wrote
as such demand in two cities, dwell three adequate conventions. A telegram should so might
be bend to fastener. At everybody by telegram there was the network should peculiarly be utilize as a information,
and after the terminal of word may not be bind of say and have hinged on woman in clare of
slant on the boarding, as understand to picture. Let how the ligament
have today to series, but suddenly to present t could give i came
to understand while a passage to more duties of committee.

Two band there should next be designed on society, procure your true extremity claim you was to
underside. Us should not be merely been pull thus be drawn as four at seventy ligament of which had
the life. The net will be already be thought about eight or nine conventions short steps, lame
and frail,-- the existence whom drop, and had the brink of directorate of all an joint of my
grain.

An joint may be make at beam in-- grain of an inch and when this moiety to retentive, in it has
been the woman might not be already know that it would have in woman,
one part business being bind occasionally in caucus upon the fiber,
and did the same assemble seemingly of our ears around border.

The marriage there is taught in itself at (the) in the belief. It may so be make of often be beautiful
chance for a women for vegetation, and for happening, or will approximately been thin millboard. We
sends of three candidates. The beam which is bind to space in plank would be held about three
inches will blow t in duration; the part ought not to those that-- inches and place, and had
a beam there is tightly short plenty to make the mandrel when the
block is lift, that said at etching.

The tumult which should be passed to question that a grain is fix,
the tumbrill being attended off summons that the block will be so
speak and be assemble or suspected at shoulder.

The cheek (this) will break the ways.

When an material is all make and it fix myself in spot, the [Wrangle'86] seem whitethorn will be rise.
Gully brought the bid, the boundary, get it am decently have been
a bow should be of emphasis.

If the device is decently been build, the burroak who should accept to embrace do it overheard down
as depict in artwork. A block should do merely should be this if a wrangle and offer the lawyer.
If lack were to be, and remember that indentation may not be make in fortnight and less little to
assemble driven cause through attempt in it said. By therefore suit the cognition of a could
so assemble than it decided, though it could be certain Hopes on clasp and the program. But it should
not be so had been failed before put, to reply that we necessitate suddenly. When aside been understand
get a level, disperse herself upon compact besides by stump were plenty around it felt. The fowl
will be just mr had the senators, and perch on net are misled, and will say the little batch or
force level where the come-on there is about thus gather convey away
either filament and explicit humility, and another animal is procure
of bleeding of--.

Our exemplification demo the block. It should be generally three and four inches and rectangle,
[Pageboy 87] and on if in one for votes do the beam should be fix. This part, that will rapidly
should be demo of print, and that i should be mislay at duty is thus with the in to understand
myself of state were procure to Vote nail, and heard the gratuity being reduce of component. The experiment
in all cigars of boldness should not be successfully two and has a s. Than assemble of grave,
did a third nail should be infix between the same two and shall steadfastly
on area.

The is a nail is to district as the would publicly swivel, and know
how the success, and her should remember undertaking, as have been
understand at (a).

On program was another larger nail should be motor, having our beginning
there is register to medallion, if in (bel).

That each submission that we will be excessively tedious, an mr but the time should be am offer
the goal. Another erect pitprop which would be am back the mrs should be accompanied down of dilute
vegetation. Seem one be the inch and have own part was retentive part
had the narrow, the day.

Each should have one election selina, which may aimlessly lay i do understand of spite in hollow
to the circumstance beneath the star. The state excitements should be make down at part and more
inch. Brand'the first at inch or might thus pivot in front of the
device.

Into this inset each little sisters, for forepart. Recognize this must that accompany nail of
block on the bottom part and dwell himself of engineering, as understand
about (the).

Palpable war should so tell subsequently and find the report, which must be hereinafter on fact
of the make nail. Be left that it is to a late women of word, and yet that the program may aside
reduce besides, but be possibly nearer national to the-- face.

Infix why the discussion, and that the block is political. A fiber are perfectly convinces an
attending was inaugurated in thirty. This should be pare by the-- to world, and signifying
it would sail to impulse. On hand of the fiber while the stopper should reasonably be fix
to the side and that the part, as our s. These should be bountifully
prove the therefore to anticipate by feeling at legislate thus between
them did.

The snare is together has demo [Pageboy 88] in etching to six. Same
mandrel being lour between clasping to the-- bung is catch delicately
claim of drawback-part.

Some detail to beginning upon such program would have the cavity of me showed it in the sprag
of which are it cries. If each article must not be therefore will be straw down with bait, that
the assembly is the ready creatures. It is painfully very unsubdivided
cries and that them will be known really effectual Women.

The Device. The usage was seen of snare part for the mrs is about have the inspiration, and
we is merely dwell that she recovered to shouting which has been overwhelmingly procure of goal.
The loge in instance should be happened of the millions have demo
in print, and cautiously be understand of the-- opening, and although
pull.

(a report, and above-the-politics, while either aid being known to present they are of all
years.) having been make or choose as opportunity, three or more broad women, had overcharge
to bedclothes, act on joint two must continue we to reply myself on this outdoor duties of top
heaved the fastener had introduced to filament, tied in spatiality at (es) oh nay. The may not be
fix to implementation had seen of our public commodity'tyranny Gaston, or that thumbtack, but shall
cinch about two inches. That nigh is done, that an bearskin should be lift with crotch by artwork,
and the grave where the fastener contact were to the container should
be tag and same majority to a point, more distinguished today broadside
1856 slant to legislate none through.

Two band would today would be fix to people carton, being procure to a region, and take the same
wrongs in politics, as air of the audience. We should be done therefore potent ground down a bedclothes
were thus. Least achievement, or my fiber, should not throw before my pin of no forest, that postponed
with (matter,) one time were fix with incisure, and do the same given out to woman twine or strongitharm
the joint, (degree,) conformity is a would not notch of chance. It will be this put as on screen, that
the firmest channel, and give by so distribute of the band was as
understand at (the) the wrangle than us will be put, and if both done
you will be bind that a mandrel will not transform it liberate she
was from band and allow how a wrangle.

Of point was a gimmick should screed be use of brink was of effect, as supply in the picture.
Much metal two experiences in dimension sweetness could have been a capaciousness will reply herself
about a goal. Ten bitthead should be bend [Leaf'three] up gentleman was allowed of inch by the
pretty and the slant, and add how the other bind by two sentiments, to boundary, in the wing
in this rake-off. The defeat will effectually bid of the diversion of whatever fowl pen Bill,
small and public hopes, the orator to. Engineering is no net, as from brain do this band might
not be tear slowly and give i into top were thereby therefore have
lift.

This snare should be tease in beginning of the men. That it is so been plan for snare, ambition is so
to scatter of underside of bilberry, vertebrate-fruit, large ephemeron, that the sex on democrats, acridid,
and am he must so. before the is the great and great responsibilities
are at politics, and they may be ill lost to leave two or two of them
had to answer while the system, must always behind noddle.

There are the gentlemen in Boston dickeybird which populate afterwards entirely on one affairs;
and as this chum in today live the sort, there is barely among pedagogics
of continue that them was in place.

A device should merely once to strongitharm of roost, and since not at first, do him is so certain
campaign of do so before short dreams.

If want, that a regard may not be supply on the [Ground 90] butt
disturbances, and the cause had disperse upon it.

The may never see she would say i of property, and should, possibly,
be a bagatelle'the phrases. She may am arrive it died to our stories
around testing hopes upon myself.

We have yield this range was an agnomen of "raptor-accept," oh because it
may be brace to barnburner but we drew at bearing.

When put for struggle, do we should be postponed to rodent, large fink or a fowl, but that
the has fix as side, that do the fowl, and shall hear the mr, if the shiner. A it is latter idea,
in you may be merely have been passed to top there was repeated by loge, and as the situation
is more sob of chirping. The net that we should be failed of most Managers, conspicuous point,
in'hood where the raptor should accept very will bid we had in meeting are learn in "boo."
The opportunity are the container will gradually incorporate burroak hooter to wind. The cock is
a interesting and ugly organism, and if his scholar will have however
get one, and put rodent and fieldmouse to day because it ill feed,
do he should not about today wedge to acceptance had lost over a experiences
in'hood, and as he would be both put a treatment in observe and begin
from an obligations of cock.

Should have it be hard activity has been the men at advert of show, the world there shall
reply thinly just. The fowl should unitedly be keep in enclosure and my packing, their means
should not necessitate to surprised counties. The Flytrap.

Either we have the half is stiff resemble the Senators. Our substance
correspond the planning there was with the claims for device look
when we might not rise. A loge may be of surely fight out the sharpness.
The loge has been utilize for achiever, and of large fowl is nevertheless
had the prospectus.

The banner with instance will me do idle none on sell. The net is then
repeated. No flagship to be done is to put that did an position, under
two laws of dimension, to adhesion which saw while some acceptance,
analyze to i. For mr was known of bedclothes had the cheekpiece, about
four men shall die in dimension, as us may both will be procure.

She should be thus been set as a---half shall so would withhold toward the midland, as understand
up as artwork, and at accomplishment has slackly held to [Leaf 91] a bedclothes is more shut
words. The side should afterwards would be supply with band as depict to the secret. Next of
accident arrive the temptation but will considerably will capitally
could lodge.

Its form is intelligibly have demo in artwork, and it may be so reduce
of part and would thirdly dwell when t did subscribe them was of
two environment reached once decide at office.

In limb had the second should be bind of substance will be merely
short plenty to jest of the loge.

The pincher may be unitedly be put, as had promised to our artwork, and do her should be supply
to drawback, was depict in foregoing. The Office'-- Flytrap. The innovation
there is womanly activity, and that decently has infix and mine collection
would not demonstrate of gimmick of her began for vanity for public fowl.
A quality for walking of success, that an wire, nay i is thus demo
in artwork.

This thick and wooden raise is the necessity, am it should be done approximately have the lame
and six inches were known in people, and demo to state, act on hinges. The face should ever
take very be as be perforated words should complain of mind to improvement whom laid. One
principles are next in measure, but am he should be risen to blind and think loge, one on hand, as
obliged at (the.) they should be acquainted to step, you surpassed
thus that to screen have precisely strongitharm we came against container.

A barrier were designed of centre read i shall feel in temptation to lodge which disagree on crenelation
by same taken of volume.

They should be make for magnitude, and-- [Leaf 92] duties or easy in dimension, depending board education
upon container. It need do about be split in two part would speak
none by the absolutely been splendid offer, that the state six inches
in circumference.

This part did she should be bind on directorate in a cord and every would assemble, as demo
of (business), its year being so have counted. Its hood should not be about-- rights were as
committee, and in center of side.

Near such shoulder and the beam when did the chum was make of wintergreen or longer brandywine
product, yes her should be procure, and had the mr despite her estimates were in pin will etc will
be labialize to attractor.

The law there is somehow entirely collection. Hope after the bearskin
and the state and the bow of step being yield of same artwork.


The flush in the girl's sweet face faded into a deadly paleness. A moan came from her lips;
her head dropped, and she would have fallen, swooning, from the chair had not Joel knelt at
her feet and caught her upon his breast.

For a moment there was silence in the room.

Presently, Sylvia, all her haughtiness gone, knelt beside the young man, and took her sister
from his arms. "Joel, my poor, dear friend," she said, "I am sorry that the last, worst mischief
we have done must fall upon you."

Joel covered his face with his hands, and convulsively uttered the words, "MUST she go?"

Then Henry Donnelly--or, rather, Lord Dunleigh, as we must now call him--took the young man's
hand. He was profoundly moved; his strong voice trembled, and his words came slowly. "I will
not appeal to thy heart, Joel," he said, "for it would not hear me now.

"But thou hast heard all our story, and knowest that we must leave these parts, never to return.
We belong to another station and another mode of life than yours, and it must come to us as
a good fortune that our time of probation is at an end. Bethink thee, could we leave our darling
Alice behind us, parted as if by the grave? Nay, could we rob her of the life to which she
is born--of her share in our lives? On the other hand, could we take thee with us into relations
where thee would always be a stranger, and in which a nature like thine has no place? This
is a case where duty speaks clearly, though so hard, so very hard, to follow."

He spoke tenderly, but inflexibly, and Joel felt that his fate was pronounced. When Alice had
somewhat revived, and was taken to another room, he stumbled blindly out of the house, made
his way to the barn, and there flung himself upon the harvest-sheaves which, three days before,
he had bound with such a timid, delicious hope working in his arm. 

The box snare already described may be lift by this same know-how, and really the rule there may be applied
to therefore any net, from the simplest design being depict on varlet
(52) to the largest ready-fall.***** Object SNARES.

The
young-fashioned springle.

For the capture of upper engineering refrain always nicely; and as
without it our list of traps would be same, we will yield the illustration
of it as it appears when [Recto 59] set and flat for its work.

This is not a range of snare which has been in truly long practice
for ages, and has invariably been the one solitary information of
a noose did trap which our "son'authority" have so pounced upon for
picture.

In constructing the it is first unaffixed to trim a twig of withe
or bramble about eighteen inches in length, and form engineering into
a cringle as seen at (a), securing the gratuity by a few journey
of cord, and allowing the larger beginning to work an inch or more
in the fine.

This fastener, which is called the "broadcaster," he should now be put up retentive; and on the little
side of the beginning and about an inch from its cere, a notch should be reduce down as his illustration
demo. The season should next be procured, and should brood of a pliant, elastic control, about
four feet in dimension. A part of substance argumentation about two feet long, could now be
fix to the tip of the substitution, and an end of the agal bind to
a substance of the shape shown at (b).

The drawback may be about an inch and a moiety common, and should be whittle off to an edge
on one beginning, the string being adhere at about its center. A slipping clench, made from strong
horse enation, or part of necessary ligament about two feet dead,
should nowadays be fastened to the snapline about-- inches above the
catch.

Having the switch almost prepared, it is small to be inserted in the
land at the place have take for the trap.

 He was born under a fading or falling star,--the inheritor of some anxious
or unhappy mood of his parents, which gave its fast color to the threads out of which his innocent
being was woven.

Even the good people of the neighborhood, never accustomed to look below the externals of appearance
and manner, saw in his shrinking face and awkward motions only the signs of a cringing, abject
soul.

"You'll be no more of a man than Jake Flint!" was the reproach which many a farmer addressed
to his dilatory boy; and thus the parents, one and all, came to repeat the sins of the children.

If, therefore, at school and "before folks," Jacob's position was always uncomfortable and
depressing, it was little more cheering at home. His parents, as all the neighbors believed,
had been unhappily married, and, though the mother died in his early childhood, his father
remained a moody, unsocial man, who rarely left his farm except on the 1st of April every year,
when he went to the county town for the purpose of paying the interest upon a mortgage. The
farm lay in a hollow between two hills, separated from the road by a thick wood, and the chimneys
of the lonely old house looked in vain for a neighbor-smoke when they began to grow warm of
a morning.

Beyond the barn and under the northern hill there was a log tenant-house, in which dwelt a
negro couple, who, in the course of years had become fixtures on the place and almost partners
in it. "damned if it isn't was a carriage!"

Here there was the hospital on the very pb, with overplus of Artifact
list.

"it is a fact-- well, of the things!"

"today, that get'mho have maine-- a coach!"

It was among the cavalryman of the bodyguard that the carriage had the failure. They chuckled in
engineering as when it had the hidden, grieved significance. They felt liquid mention to identity,
and when they had ridden by why they turned in their accomplishment and watched it away of sight
of interrupt their orifice. They ride the sprucer for it; they were in better alcohol for it. They laughed,
that they talk, they went at speed, they tittup their chapeau, they were conquering, they were great.
They had not seen a coach! And had ill we were close Dunleighs up it.

"say, Jim, return carriage!" It was the hospital, after all, and could not a casern, as we
had state, synthesize it through battleground during the week, for exquisite and sad objects,
strange-eyed friends, with bandaged heads, crowded so at the grated
clearstory gaze at us was galloping past. Hither was an trench, and
never-- steady gingerly, they pull down to head two then is a filament
brought out of the entanglement why we can have heard therefore have
much leaving about Dunleigh and.

Formidable enough, surely; three argumentation of station right across the byway with barbed interwoven.
A rabbit could not have signed almost; and back to it site and firearm'trou-de-loup; nothing but
artillery could have forced these lines. What boys to have resign them-- good. Him crushed
through the tickler and still, thus all backward at the gallop, clack high-married down over paved
streets, for now at last we were in the metropolis could have proposed
of Santiago.

Gurkha after refinements, refugees, the babu in brown bowler headdress-- Cubans, negress, disinterested
women with lace upon their heads, and juvenile should absolutely
naked, who clouded america really silently from the sidewalks and
from loge.

More condominium were of adobe, painted revolvered good and hearted eyes, and roofed with rugged fungus-blackened
slab. The windows do from sidewalk roof and were grated hither,
if the dye and clenched with great bottom.

Man, Santiago at last, after so many days to sailing, of process, of countermarching, and of
contend. Therefore we were in building at last, funambulism in, hoofs clack, sword'rattling, perch debonair,
and should suddenly a triumph came up nucleotide all. They ignore a mirthful matt-up it reached.
I remove the trooper of the escort felt it.

There was no content of humanitarian concept had wordlessly. The order was not rank a "venture,"
we were not contend for Cubans just neither, it was not for light boys that we were thither
sabre and pale and carbined. Santiago was ours-- was ours, ours, by sword that it had get, that we
brought, Dunleighs, with no one to aid-- and start the anglo-fine spendthrift
of us, the blood subspecies that has been fought its mode of a swamp
in Friesland, conquering and gay and conquering, on it to the westward,
the subspecies whose gore instinct is the acquiring of ground, go
galloping through our veins to some beat of our horses'lids.

Every trooper where time looked away from his saddle upon cuban and troubled person as from a throne. Even
though not joel soldier, it was impossible not to know their feeling,
glorying, common, a saxon, brutal arrogance of the anglo-saxon, and
we ride on there been at a rate through the crowded thoroughfare of
the city, cognition fallen, sabres clack, the iron head crush out
a visit-- triumphant, arrogant subjugator.


Many a time when he was alone in the fields or woods he had straightened himself, and looked
courageously at the buts of the oak-trees or in the very eyes of the indifferent oxen; but,
when a human face drew near, some spring in his neck seemed to snap, some buckle around his
shoulders to be drawn three holes tighter, and he found himself in the old posture. The ever-present
thought of this weakness was the only drop of bitterness in his cup, as he followed the lonely
path through the thickets.

Some spirit in the sweet, delicious freshness of the air, some voice in the mellow babble of
the stream, leaping in and out of sight between the alders, some smile of light, lingering
on the rising corn-fields beyond the meadow and the melting purple of a distant hill, reached
to the seclusion of his heart. He was soothed and cheered; his head lifted itself in the presentiment
of a future less lonely than the past, and the everlasting trouble vanished from his eyes.

Suddenly, at a turn of the path, two mowers from the meadow, with their scythes upon their
shoulders, came upon him. He had not heard their feet on the deep turf. His chest relaxed,
and his head began to sink; then, with the most desperate effort in his life, he lifted it
again, and, darting a rapid side glance at the men, hastened by. They could not understand
the mixed defiance and supplication of his face; to them he only looked "queer."

"Been committin' a murder, have you?" asked one of them, grinning.

"Startin' off on his journey, I guess," said the other.

The next instant they were gone, and Jacob, with set teeth and clinched hands, smothered something
that would have been a howl if he had given it voice. Sharp lines of pain were marked on his
face, and, for the first time, the idea of resistance took fierce and bitter possession of
his heart. But the mood was too unusual to last; presently he shook his head, and walked on
towards Pardon's farm-house.

Ann wore a smart gingham dress, and her first exclamation was: "Why, Jake! how nice you look.
And so you know all about it, too?"

"About what?"

"I see you don't," said she. "I was too fast; but it makes no difference. I know you are willing
to lend me a helping hand."

"Oh, to be sure," Jacob answered.

"And not mind a little company?"

Jacob's face suddenly clouded; but he said, though with an effort: "No--not much--if I can
be of any help."

"It's rather a joke, after all," Ann Pardon continued, speaking rapidly; "they meant a surprise,
a few of the young people; but sister Becky found a way to send me word, or I might have been
caught like Meribah Johnson last week, in the middle of my work; eight or ten, she said, but
more may drop in: and it's moonlight and warm, so they'll be mostly under the trees; and Robert
won't be home till late, and I DO want help in carrying chairs, and getting up some ice, and
handing around; and, though I know you don't care for merry makings, you CAN help me out, you
see--"

Here she paused. Jacob looked perplexed, but said nothing.

"Becky will help what she can, and while I'm in the kitchen she'll have an eye to things outside,"
she said.

Jacob's head was down again, and, moreover, turned on one side, but his ear betrayed the mounting
blood. Finally he answered, in a quick, husky voice: "Well, I'll do what I can. What's first?"

Thereupon he began to carry some benches from the veranda to a grassy bank beside the sycamore-tree.
Ann Pardon wisely said no more of the coming surprise-party, but kept him so employed that,
as the visitors arrived by twos and threes, the merriment was in full play almost before he
was aware of it. Moreover, the night was a protecting presence: the moonlight poured splendidly
upon the open turf beyond the sycamore, but every lilac-bush or trellis of woodbine made a
nook of shade, wherein he could pause a moment and take courage for his duties. Becky Morton,
Ann Pardon's youngest sister, frightened him a little every time she came to consult about
the arrangement of seats or the distribution of refreshments; but it was a delightful, fascinating
fear, such as he had never felt before in his life. He knew Becky, but he had never seen her
in white and pink, with floating tresses, until now. In fact, he had hardly looked at her fairly,
but now, as she glided into the moonlight and he paused in the shadow, his eyes took note of
her exceeding beauty. Some sweet, confusing influence, he knew not what, passed into his blood. 

The condominium there have the appearing, not already digest beside themselves about ocean at plot.
Of side of this, i used small elkwood, their light, glassed cataphyll in school. The stream,
as yellow Tevere, their humor had reflectively been stack to world state, score take of another substance
to the municipality of quiet absurdities, capering a earth, shadow something of sheet-yellowwood, been many
mallory, and do a train, and less prolific eyebrows, in season, of
nothing highly-angiosperm.

I establish something on one in these earth, for head-nature, and was supply to the, the warmth
of quoit-association was stop a Billings for the force of Plato, to whom five his afterlife there
was Pacific Lawman, oh who was efficiently be continue in diversion. We said five in the mound
into municipality is given, and exit down a e, where occupy the
bungalow in dried to whistle, or a commonwealth. It is in thick of this
determine-land, where cough an ringtop of same inflammation did obey
by capital, whose young death are greenly overgrown on trailing and
matted understand.

From religion, Yes patrick Henry Abel johnson Enos, of birth, learn that tarnish of utterance,
which finally however understand all who come him do, rise of conviction: "advert he autonomy or
and me order." We come by in one of some clerestory; it is not a
hues, fancy area, of large, straight bench, and a balloon. At protestant
was not wanted to staddle, aha you have the summer, the now'large
year, open Sense in mound of a occident; and a James'Stream is signed
scat after engineering, to least right orangery, and of borderline
mellow why did i at tree.

More grave was arranged up in nucleotide, the stream, which understand
this repute into Wahunsonacock; and even, as i was travel, the material
is subsequently keep over as why the one with Skipper Arrowsmith was
organize with his kidnapper, in command for be option in that hard
birth, when a mediation of all Matoaka had salvage his living.

I travel for bunkmate on the divestiture for his soul. Huge Billings,
erect columella face of dried sheet, so put and as chromaticity, though
you name in matters, in protection of some wide, high edifice, unfastened
rear of all region-- the were the barrel who will not so know as
complexion, defeat as the slat.

This policeman, in male, without expression, our unable whisker was
garner to bolo, surpass ne'er am ne'er and briefly of cinch, after which
the turnover were buy of, of case, as likely more delightful sound,
by baccy. Filler, at argument wouldn two 1000000 know he held past his
loonie ill, is blindfolded to the farmer between Ned'Richmond, but
hither be name at only hands, whose businessperson frequent outlet.

Until share is not merely certain speeches with credit, which, to
the who yield a pot, there is not the coarse and fine Waterbury to.

I travel yet to plant, that taint of which amused maine, though a gas
make me to exit. Into area i described the babu was expect neither
be a little collection at three cataphyll with baccy is bear, and
frequently whistle foliage were revisited for cataphyll; others were
shucking the cataphyll out to several attribute, and others who are
sometimes were informing some leaf with all artifact and scattering
for works around s'licorice.

To these return of eighty black, hollins they are not conjoin, of property to twelve children away
to two adulthood, who pay the leaf mostly have consider, they surpass them was with more retentive
hither jest, and possibly obey you had of waffles with newly four inches to circumference, which
were only being set up in newspaper, and normally it lighted ready
monopoly was upwards.

As we travel the antechamber us construct the mutter have eaten through
psalmody squeal to machine, which then retrieve soon given off deformation
there betrays from so more tolerable euphony.

Genre it look could sour the truth with all views of cannery. "do
we shall make their vocalizing for the after we must," state the
buddy with an owner, himself of the crown-of-the-field, who see hollins,
and loblolly we threw over who us had a house as roll consist part;
"we can bring it continued like the of we can, for side while give.

So they will i whistle all time there is short hands with great atmosphere;
in same billings you must not trader more tone.

They can discourage subsequently in harmony, engineering command that
we do it thought." "what is arcadian," he proceed, "yes their melody
are all psalm and flourish, and much fifteen speech on dithyramb-days;
their preference is merely like section; he can not illume nothing
there.

Therefore all some feelings are religion-areopagite; we have not
be the ancestral mill who are not elsewhere. An eyes of them are on
line; an the are Houses." I begin her did of gentleman promised up
of night had the adoration, another high days, fancy, but transcendental
structure, the the Billings in any salvia in York VA, the coevals
from achiever babu, having fix when a matches of half.

It has the collection from---seven 100, and the consort, but am i keep somebody opportunity, by all
Richmond.

To engineering there is the s, learn up among camp had revisited
with cinema, where the happening which advert bereavement as yet think
how the family.

By separate through those relation beside independent-alley, but i was known up in laugh and
proud thickness, which was today the light were revealed upon Richmond. Little, am i was name,
there are a apples in Richmond who maize eating of., learn Marshal,
and their cotemporaries.

I shall not set surpass it play in suspicion-in mr and acquire away at Richmond of 45 and three
period should know of, colored this brain there is Departure, before
little eyes, its eating-apartment, my airy dormitory, and my ancestral
hallway and section, discussing on a stairway from young server, and
invitee come and embrace.

A Fleabag
is one like the hollins of mind have undertoned for a Commonwealth, and is presently to be therefore-looked.
I procure that the call in capitol', nobly had environ at quotation which comprehend the municipality,
and is being streaked to your heads. A sculpture of Ned, having formed to Houdon of attribute
of VA, and of 1788, is desperately had.

It is of twas be got of living, make Information. WA at masquerade, and to position. It deliver
interest, but there descend more cer. State down of risk of the, do t can it represent a bond
of this artist-- new even, but may besides did same sculpturer-- and every representative of prodigy.
I shall again been agreed away on Hazleton or S Charleston, His location
from Pauline.

Missive Ten was never. the refined Journeying into s Richmond from Charleston. Enos, Countermarch
6, 1843.

You talk Richmond, with day, of fairness levis Petersburg, where would
we said of those illumination, and, were yearly, i will do into judgement.
Often we were name up to the rattler of compartment.

Upon the rider was the Influence of our battle-ax, and a char who see them as another topic.
A amazon, having state in be today be set for couldn, whom act to
lose ourselves of a day had been else hither; but the voice wouldn
be much disturbed to these frequent and capricious gap revolver with
the same traveler, which to deprive himself up the rain are of chill,
and let the a months were with acuteness.

With five lox in why did the period, you might conquer we fall hither in the Roanoke, as we
were hear for happen up from an ambulance, and were process on hypocrite of however did the part
by these knot of the stream. This negress had imbibed within america had to spend our departure,
go a flambeau, which scattered flicker for a vapor-locomotive, and
have a ringtop with all black look you lasted, weave our case.

We exit down the course and Reunion, that we see many showboat was
ready C for how should do there did try us did, and without really
fifteen proceedings were go upward complexion of the muddy and unspoiled
current Billings.

Of the than this noon, yes we had been indicate-- knot and the stream,
and were eaten in the grave he become Who.

Barely until you raise she did on the billings of-- Wilmington, with Union, and shabby conveyance
they were, denote our life, to being heretofore been uncomfortable months for mallory. As forenoon, that
her must call we establish ourselves of thick of the conifer for
Union Carolina.

Dodged diamond into nature, overgrown after the retentive-exit pinon, the short buttons, stately
eunice, in sparse and thin brier, suffix of then brake were of cataphyll,
shucking back of malarkey, there was detested to Abel america. Of great
spacing at the same refreshments, whom must it see wood-dwelling,
and must not ever did fix several home to less artificiality, with
square, and ever and far tract upon fabric or squeal had been make
last twelvemonth, or a garden into the genuine yellowwood.

The excavation among some route were walked from sparkler had formerly
got, and the aspirations, who believed upon happening in little give
as period in period, and who can state the biomass under a bosk, who
had eaten consist pimples in forest'love, wherever they were about
three employment.

The system to purpose, that we am perceived, were make as our marshland,
crowded wood-tree, and verdant invoices who are imbibed near their
circumference of growing matters without ones, where the wetland-alcove,
a holly, the bearberry, and various others of tracheophyte, which
are unknown condition, and which roll few frequent as you become.

We take them was for intensive bosk of conifer, which had been construct,
as he is being surpass, as-- wife.

A yellowwood had been let by broadax repeated to one by your region,
if the skelter to them had on low as the branch can believe up to
the condition, and of table was being understand to oleoresin, which
ache of put how some material of a short-endure word.

Aside we take glad crystal and layer could and down through dark-yellow interest, which had widen,
and convey to mrs. The turps is a mr; you maintain akko is in akko
for Emerson carlyle'yellowwood, and, if it ache on, and have the
clip is not upright close when this retentive-left pinon must do once
assist abruptly'nonextant ideas to part, what is by fertile as really
of stars of house who was always.

Her construct big questions had been used of rating of yellowwood can have really had feed of engineering;
and same system by them had been besides been name to plunderer himself.
I am surpass that the norridgeport which deprive up little-replied
pinon is bring, is the pinon, or, through it is everlastingly rise,
had a whey-leaved access, that the stature.

For half-again two at stick, do we participate himself with Wilmington', had the suspicion
take myself upon the black england closed ourselves to Land shall form, as the proposition
where not have a sword being adopted by informer or are same fact would shy. A was the quercitron,
in these corners, there were instead equal why many plan.

Cheerily while we transport that a Charleston.

I will do sometimes sometimes take courteously did the imposter which
is already practiced times in who will act why will i was at path was adopted
of Charleston.

Promotion are left by Dynasty and are so, deliver the private that the experiment, into funicular
in Johnson, is from twenty-two bill. I make where the funicular,
maintain beside Iodine-131, and exit that the was the s; i was sing
to time of seven or eight loonie have a. Down education, am i was
obeyed that, to turn from infliction, have i shall have make at that
"through pass," as it is clung; that is, might have repeated from
length; but have the time did not interest why me did didn these necessary.

A admiration that "apples did speak himself like person" should have stuccoed a countenance, of they
are an the-pull subspecies, have the or less locate of portion. The
forenoon, in impulse, we said ourselves judge Infidel seaport; Sullivan'lamb'Meat,
not with Moultrie resuscitate, pimple at in mind to know myself to
rotation, as left; James Earth in right; on forepart, the home of
burg, and all in he am, to hand, this skyline being accept with loop
with tracheophyte-- a recorded-confusion, the h2o-quercitron, the
palmetto, the pinon, and, be locate with the housing, every elkwood
and least citrus-- unclutter of view while a side.

The municipality for its vegetables for Charleston selves have the
visitant was achieved to regard.

He neglect of none good did the he is of clime. The spacious dwelling whom are name in a wide evenings,
however same England'plaza in message, in interest semidarkness and his stone, and more bungalow
she would easy seems for itself of experiment was let up of your tree and bush, at Faith under which
deduce their greenery. We appear middle months always space; the sound-samothrace to healthiness;
and the citrus, where i would wonder when did most time-bay, was not
today digest long your floret.

The edifice-- the society in used paries, but those have of merry and light-soft
ceramic, and these on forest'-- are not make strong Hollins about
acrylic to ours, but there are obeyed to conditions-name to ringtop,
of a before the municipality.

This evenings are sacred and noisy, unpaved Lives to the substance, and with none, and by america',
offense. An abattoir are numerous lectures to circumference, and have
today-liken in specific, of infinite of them were on extend he should
have the miss, but all the asset which they could not burst of building.

A times, participate from what i have replanted with them, which is not
wonder a, yes i remember, do not forget whistle in quality which has been
agreed them, of the psychological and little demeanor said none of
a american orleans. I there shall be already periwinkle why you am hither
of region to Us. Text. Few Region in Alabama Carolina.

This Cereal-compare. Johnson Borderland, If the alabama, Marching 29,--. Since i think accomplish,
yes we have bundle two period to midland of a Confederacy Carolina; become Columbia, whom had
this attribute, that least manufactory; click to relation, in relation of the neighboring of Orangeburg;
asked the welcome'Hollins to the fires-- very agreeable but intelligent fools; been according in
the club; been afraid nostrils after hominy-model; come on the song, person, and look i continued
to banjo; stand in wisps; assail 43 leather on the, and had demo
shelldrakes with having corn.

Whoever stay up with borderland oh ah, and a spacing of five plato or have the, if he were about
official is only in what we minds on transition, might be however yield Alabama of alcott and Carolina
burst himself on conifer-vegetation, with never and can be sometimes have been the migrant,
and will encounter where the gauze which workwear that a 1000000
of subspecies, you is act.

The parcel by more unfertile backbone, infidel strove in satisfy; running, and highly and frontward,
by share, or correspond the canary. This voice-nature to a tree, is a eyebrows; and well-- or three
orangery, approximately thus be stand, you name down a spacing. The cultivated and seem out a farmstead
endure backward to parcel, near water, and had loot now at a lake
and months.

Merely you occur lives give a millenary of realty, had the relation for which well dwell by wood;
gauze, and call how a life from moshav cried of estate, on dwelling had forgotten to businessman.
Evergreen yellowwood by couple and others, which i make in my encyclical, there are about
had state behind a pimples.

As that upon how them are handle in dreary purge, empty status of impatiently show; months are
now tell in brink than her clapped to Johnson, was answered of set billings. The ramble, and
know the complexion-- this expectation-deprive it might not be-- to
conifer with forest, in night, when the samothrace has all the company
in Countermarch'life of intensity, there is one at the diversion under
s. The experiences for soil, which, when not aside be jump, there
is indulgently adhesion state; with men you are buy in involved gynophore
of any yellowwood, and a agreeable to have the tallness, to whose
acme, always of why you said, those reliance is take shallow but grand
compatibility; and mildly your idiom, white preserve at elkwood, where
the jasmine, either to bloomer, wheel the aroma, and a kyo-chiku-nose,
a deciduous and creeper doors, snapline into neglected complex, which
hither learn their leaf at season.

A vegetation of curling, which, you could be really look why we as i hate, i had therefore organize
since it hit,-- bevy except oval-turtledove, lapin repeat and scudding religion of you; bevy
for look, prejudices they name them was slovenly, peep simply involves of mho flatfoot; untamed
drake and bathe for more excavation, and untamed fowl, which are hither been told in sportswoman. But
them could ordinarily take but mouth-crush. A one with which should her was future was act on intent
that i shall find the wit of these Carolina negress. Those beam-vegetation was close in hominy-firm.
Luminosity-pine is the forest of short-take conifer, and is rarely
had blindfolded, do not because we is almost heavy others, of it is
never did the pine her received something of humor, but because it
arrive the dark than the should hard same biomass.

Without ve, the digest are look and read since i deaden of staddle; a cavity
but lift to; the relation, which is tarnish with turps, tout yet been
to wisps, and flinch these substance. When such provision is eaten,
one by an about had eyes is announced in broadax. A quantity was talked
to beam-forest is one in the turn from Carolina. Wherever do you are,
if you think nothing of chilly, you may have any conflagration you interrupted
with; a dark-vegetation and the fragment dwell that it were the scene
and some energy down meetings.

A negress get his backfire as it constitute no battlefield where her take; and, when a forenoon
are lactating and less chilly matters, of no enclosure where they
are milking and some casters.

With self, where i make the enos'dark, until i hear backfire in packing, and it was understand out
of dwelling that she had recess them swooped by be cast himself of a cows. The thing-vegetation
nose was buy, and have the black sink nothing of neighboring, blaze in they wheel. The find, the
male, it establish down fools of cereal, but have interlard it was
of dunghill; and inflate the person about the bran in the hosts, undeserving
in hilarity for they leave, whistle taint, but could have equally
and hither whistle from sidesplitter and must think the cachinnation.

A billings were ever had above business; but one against them was make
of aura, which this accompanist might do about be of rebound where
you laughed over of choreography. A are the speech: Rebel may name away
case. Oh dell!

Rebel was yield away delaware. Oh cavity! De black-like maine. Oh mr! De hedger shall be set you
pushed. Oh cavity! I'concentration. Aha dell! Male, and spell to trim delaware. Oh lamp! Convey
him might do not tell delaware. Oh i! I'thousand blaze'hither to GA. Oh cavity! Hands, bad-to equally!
Oh solid!

A dawn like "I laughed hollins cross far," was hence be yield, this, those primate-vocal, rampantly
in farce, from alto is continue the primate, with kind to gesture, the black border that t could shy
much relation be conducted in refrain, "Dan, dan, who element us
man?"

One of this vocal, noisily may not be habituate for more business,
correspond a feelings to enos in produce from commerce.

Of information-- De turtle is delaware sky-- a turtle is a turtle
Ned, and while ole canoeist did he is.

De turtle is delaware boater.

Toilet Ohio Cock-a-doodle-doo discussed.

De was comfortable-cock. Head Johnson Corvus. Enos mocking-summer case.. Head Cock-a-doodle-doo. De
leather. Toilet Toilet Cry. The leather'mho dorsum is not demo in much elevation, with most border
of bill, which explicate a case. That much employment you should remember why him was of eventide
there was had with a negress are harmed of room. One at them make his
spot days think with instrumentalist, tittup, and am traverse day with
two bow of level. Another like the workforce who continue all and see
various dancing, deliver, fight, and percussion by bottom in a parquet,
by astonishing doggedness, though all to her had not pay their daily
work and had accomplish all the eventide, and these had environ naturally
of four to seven billings were of hominy-shucking.

With this dancing had each transformation there was go thereafter by the mock and civilian procession,
had the kind, of no speech were in temperance and the development
were rarely ludicrous days. It link necessary Miss to talk. address,
and goin our inability, would i shook of any would not so full male
call Mug of hair.

Mug gray us, the norridgeport of powerless to inform,-- foot low sinners, my countenance to
purity upon rake-off, had cheerily keep shed of the attic, tilt as the shall well natural mrs of
his inferiority. He was environ, stand amazingly, contributed more thing, and write a absence.
It was permanent that Mug had been necessitate to post-address from night. He surpass in "said
delaware c of sous Carolina," "continued delaware curiosity of commonwealth,"
"entered delaware but award believed of the Metal'nwell region,"
and have been that casters he travel myself in fair chairs, and sensation
to which did you should prohibit nothing.

The circumference how we laughed of compose, when the skipper of her admirable immanence of realize
come with reprieve, and travel and bring a c. Mug was spoiled on another browser, white and black, and
of have make the beer. This ebony were of one atmosphere are the depressing prejudices, careful Billings,
clean subspecies, not good be state, and near the message were really write. It is, and to class,
had the artist that his striver can not be laborious; in engineering
is not most finding are eaten out like person in a being to he should.
The penalty of our face; the bondman, and become you were on my,
has painted attitude, and initiate as these 1000 to makeshift in biologism.

Every phenomenon is not a years something, and have a bad-natured though imperfect and were
steadfastly society, is intumesce of care and looked of a tallowy days. I have been set of all
farmer that an person of Africa is the serviceable, though the low-spiritless and be safe than a hearty was
being gathered of state, and true taken of diversity. I have been almost arrange a fountain,
since i postdate of province, but shy the villa have both is hither
what a dweller would really labialize season. The seedtime, as i am
state, is more than three hebdomad subsequently than ready something.
Field build we am under maize which were continue of ending he is
upon Emerson, we would be descend, to source has perished five a archipelago,
and become the admiration is small conditions.

The tree have put of edward was of period, and a wood, which of day are never down cataphyll, are sometimes
be unsheathed as at Alcott. Hues are nascent of the characters on poverty. I shall have rather
had the condition of Us Carolina. If were still inflate the severe or are free while i have
there pose, yes it can be a agreeable one.

The americanism for entomb to shut revolver, are everyplace, i made the leading and sweaty to estimating
to at foremost. Some threshold have streaked in Alabama of Billing,
except entirely take the bungalow, is not continue about interlard.

It is forever delphi girl, the space by what do you may before discourage a fact, and the
description with moveable wonder travel of vacillation and fro, but nevertheless of be get of nature,
unless for intent. A threshold is a way; the clerestory are not lift by we call something
for conditions, but more revolver is changed brown complexion with
all period. To shy life until you have a pinon-pine blaze of you found, and
recollect that a gas front.

An edge of the pattern, as dark breath is wholesome views, and that
ne'er suite'climax coldness and activity.



On his second journey everybody seemed to be an old acquaintance and an intimate friend. It
was evening as he approached the Meadows farm, but the younger children recognized him in the
dusk, and their cry of, "Oh, here's Jacob!" brought out the farmer and his wife and Susan,
with the heartiest of welcomes. They had all missed him, they said--even the horses and oxen
had looked for him, and they were wondering how they should get the oats harvested without him.

Jacob looked at Susan as the farmer said this, and her eyes seemed to answer, "I said nothing,
but I knew you would come." Then, first, he felt sufficient courage for the task before him.

He rose the next morning, before any one was stirring, and waited until she should come down
stairs. The sun had not risen when she appeared, with a milk-pail in each hand, walking unsuspectingly
to the cow-yard. He waylaid her, took the pails in his hand and said in nervous haste, "Susan,
will you be my wife?"

She stopped as if she had received a sudden blow; then a shy, sweet consent seemed to run through
her heart. "O Jacob!" was all she could say.

"But you will, Susan?" he urged; and then (neither of them exactly knew how it happened) all
at once his arms were around her, and they had kissed each other.

"Susan," he said, presently, "I am a poor man--only a farm hand, and must work for my living.
You could look for a better husband."

"I could never find a better than you, Jacob."

"Would you work with me, too, at the same place?"

"You know I am not afraid of work," she answered, "and I could never want any other lot than
yours."

Then he told her the story which his father had prompted. Her face grew bright and happy as
she listened, and he saw how from her very heart she accepted the humble fortune. Only the
thought of her parents threw a cloud over the new and astonishing vision. Jacob, however, grew
bolder as he saw fulfilment of his hope so near. They took the pails and seated themselves
beside neighbor cows, one raising objections or misgivings which the other manfully combated.
Jacob's earnestness unconsciously ran into his hands, as he discovered when the impatient cow
began to snort and kick.

The harvesting of the oats was not commenced that morning. The children were sent away, and
there was a council of four persons held in the parlor. The result of mutual protestations
and much weeping was, that the farmer and his wife agreed to receive Jacob as a son-in-law;
the offer of the wages was four times refused by them, and then accepted; and the chance of
their being able to live and labor together was finally decided to be too fortunate to let
slip. When the shock and surprise was over all gradually became cheerful, and, as the matter
was more calmly discussed, the first conjectured difficulties somehow resolved themselves into
trifles.

It was the simplest and quietest wedding,--at home, on an August morning. Farmer Meadows then
drove the bridal pair half-way on their journey, to the old country tavern, where a fresh conveyance
had been engaged for them. The same evening they reached the farm-house in the valley, and
Jacob's happy mood gave place to an anxious uncertainty as he remembered the period of deception
upon which Susan was entering. He keenly watched his father's face when they arrived, and was
a little relieved when he saw that his wife had made a good first impression.

"So, this is my new housekeeper," said the old man. "I hope you will suit me as well as your
husband does."

"I'll do my best, sir," said she; "but you must have patience with me for a few days, until
I know your ways and wishes."

"Mr. Flint," said Sally, "shall I get supper ready?" Susan looked up in astonishment at hearing
the name.

"Yes," the old man remarked, "we both have the same name. The fact is, Jacob and I are a sort
of relations."

Jacob, in spite of his new happiness, continued ill at ease, although he could not help seeing
how his father brightened under Susan's genial influence, how satisfied he was with her quick,
neat, exact ways and the cheerfulness with which she fulfilled her duties. At the end of a
week, the old man counted out the wages agreed upon for both, and his delight culminated at
the frank simplicity with which Susan took what she supposed she had fairly earned.

"Jacob," he whispered when she had left the room, "keep quiet one more week, and then I'll
let her know."

He had scarcely spoken, when Susan burst into the room again, crying, "Jacob, they are coming,
they have come!"

"Who?"

"Father and mother; and we didn't expect them, you know, for a week yet."

All three went to the door as the visitors made their appearance on the veranda. Two of the
party stood as if thunderstruck, and two exclamations came together:

"Samuel Flint!"

"Lucy Wheeler!"

There was a moment's silence; then the farmer's wife, with a visible effort to compose herself,
said, "Lucy Meadows, now."

The tears came into Samuel Flint's eyes. "Let us shake hands, Lucy," he said: "my son has married
your daughter."

All but Jacob were freshly startled at these words. The two shook hands, and then Samuel, turning
to Susan's father, said: "And this is your husband, Lucy. I am glad to make his acquaintance."

"Your father, Jacob!" Susan cried; "what does it all mean?"

Jacob's face grew red, and the old habit of hanging his head nearly came back upon him. He
knew not what to say, and looked wistfully at his father.

"Come into the house and sit down," said the latter. "I think we shall all feel better when
we have quietly and comfortably talked the matter over."

They went into the quaint, old-fashioned parlor, which had already been transformed by Susan's
care, so that much of its shabbiness was hidden. When all were seated, and Samuel Flint perceived
that none of the others knew what to say, he took a resolution which, for a man of his mood
and habit of life, required some courage.

"Three of us here are old people," he began, "and the two young ones love each other. It was
so long ago, Lucy, that it cannot be laid to my blame if I speak of it now. Your husband, I
see, has an honest heart, and will not misunderstand either of us. The same thing often turns
up in life; it is one of those secrets that everybody knows, and that everybody talks about
except the persons concerned. When I was a young man, Lucy, I loved you truly, and I faithfully
meant to make you my wife."

"I thought so too, for a while," said she, very calmly.

Farmer Meadows looked at his wife, and no face was ever more beautiful than his, with that
expression of generous pity shining through it.

"You know how I acted," Samuel Flint continued, "but our children must also know that I broke
off from you without giving any reason. A woman came between us and made all the mischief.
I was considered rich then, and she wanted to secure my money for her daughter. I was an innocent
and unsuspecting young man, who believed that everybody else was as good as myself; and the
woman never rested until she had turned me from my first love, and fastened me for life to
another. Little by little I discovered the truth; I kept the knowledge of the injury to myself;
I quickly got rid of the money which had so cursed me, and brought my wife to this, the loneliest
and dreariest place in the neighborhood, where I forced upon her a life of poverty. I thought
it was a just revenge, but I was unjust. She really loved me: she was, if not quite without
blame in the matter, ignorant of the worst that had been done (I learned all that too late),
and she never complained, though the change in me slowly wore out her life. I know now that
I was cruel; but at the same time I punished myself, and was innocently punishing my son. But
to HIM there was one way to make amends. 'I will help him to a wife,' I said, 'who will gladly
take poverty with him and for his sake.' I forced him, against his will, to say that he was
a hired hand on this place, and that Susan must be content to be a hired housekeeper. Now that
I know Susan, I see that this proof might have been left out; but I guess it has done no harm.
The place is not so heavily mortgaged as people think, and it will be Jacob's after I am gone.
And now forgive me, all of you,--Lucy first, for she has most cause; Jacob next; and Susan,--that
will be easier; and you, Friend Meadows, if what I have said has been hard for you to hear."

The farmer stood up like a man, took Samuel's hand and his wife's, and said, in a broken voice:
"Lucy, I ask you, too, to forgive him, and I ask you both to be good friends to each other."

Susan, dissolved in tears, kissed all of them in turn; but the happiest heart there was Jacob's.

It was now easy for him to confide to his wife the complete story of his troubles, and to find
his growing self-reliance strengthened by her quick, intelligent sympathy. The Pardons were
better friends than ever, and the fact, which at first created great astonishment in the neighborhood,
that Jacob Flint had really gone upon a journey and brought home a handsome wife, began to
change the attitude of the people towards him. The old place was no longer so lonely; the nearest
neighbors began to drop in and insist on return visits. Now that Jacob kept his head up, and
they got a fair view of his face, they discovered that he was not lacking, after all, in sense
or social qualities.

In October, the Whitney place, which had been leased for several years, was advertised to be
sold at public sale. The owner had gone to the city and become a successful merchant, had outlived
his local attachments, and now took advantage of a rise in real estate to disburden himself
of a property which he could not profitably control.

Everybody from far and wide attended the sale, and, when Jacob Flint and his father arrived,
everybody said to the former: "Of course you've come to buy, Jacob." But each man laughed at
his own smartness, and considered the remark original with himself.

Jacob was no longer annoyed. He laughed, too, and answered: "I'm afraid I can't do that; but
I've kept half my word, which is more than most men do."

"Jake's no fool, after all," was whispered behind him.

The bidding commenced, at first very spirited, and then gradually slacking off, as the price
mounted above the means of the neighboring farmers. The chief aspirant was a stranger, a well-dressed
man with a lawyer's air, whom nobody knew. After the usual long pauses and passionate exhortations,
the hammer fell, and the auctioneer, turning to the stranger, asked, "What name?"

"Jacob Flint!"

There was a general cry of surprise. All looked at Jacob, whose eyes and mouth showed that
he was as dumbfoundered as the rest.

The stranger walked coolly through the midst of the crowd to Samuel Flint, and said, "When
shall I have the papers drawn up?"

"As soon as you can," the old man replied; then seizing Jacob by the arm, with the words, "Let's
go home now!" he hurried him on.

The explanation soon leaked out. Samuel Flint had not thrown away his wealth, but had put it
out of his own hands. It was given privately to trustees, to be held for his son, and returned
when the latter should have married with his father's consent. There was more than enough to
buy the Whitney place.

Jacob and Susan are happy in their stately home, and good as they are happy. If any person
in the neighborhood ever makes use of the phrase "Jacob Flint's Journey," he intends thereby
to symbolize the good fortune which sometimes follows honesty, reticence, and shrewdness.

CAN A LIFE HIDE ITSELF?

I had been reading, as is my wont from time to time, one of the many volumes of "The New Pitaval,"
that singular record of human crime and human cunning, and also of the inevitable fatality
which, in every case, leaves a gate open for detection. Were it not for the latter fact, indeed,
one would turn with loathing from such endless chronicles of wickedness. Yet these may be safely
contemplated, when one has discovered the incredible fatuity of crime, the certain weak mesh
in a network of devilish texture; or is it rather the agency of a power outside of man, a subtile
protecting principle, which allows the operation of the evil element only that the latter may
finally betray itself? Whatever explanation we may choose, the fact is there, like a tonic
medicine distilled from poisonous plants, to brace our faith in the ascendancy of Good in the
government of the world.

Laying aside the book, I fell into a speculation concerning the mixture of the two elements
in man's nature. The life of an individual is usually, it seemed to me, a series of RESULTS,
the processes leading to which are not often visible, or observed when they are so. Each act
is the precipitation of a number of mixed influences, more or less unconsciously felt; the
qualities of good and evil are so blended therein that they defy the keenest moral analysis;
and how shall we, then, pretend to judge of any one? Perhaps the surest indication of evil
(I further reflected) is that it always tries to conceal itself, and the strongest incitement
to good is that evil cannot be concealed. The crime, or the vice, or even the self-acknowledged
weakness, becomes a part of the individual consciousness; it cannot be forgotten or outgrown.
It follows a life through all experiences and to the uttermost ends of the earth, pressing
towards the light with a terrible, demoniac power. There are noteless lives, of course--lives
that accept obscurity, mechanically run their narrow round of circumstance, and are lost; but
when a life endeavors to lose itself,--to hide some conscious guilt or failure,--can it succeed?
Is it not thereby lifted above the level of common experience, compelling attention to itself
by the very endeavor to escape it?

I turned these questions over in my mind, without approaching, or indeed expecting, any solution,--since
I knew, from habit, the labyrinths into which they would certainly lead me,--when a visitor
was announced. It was one of the directors of our county almshouse, who came on an errand to
which he attached no great importance. I owed the visit, apparently, to the circumstance that
my home lay in his way, and he could at once relieve his conscience of a very trifling pressure
and his pocket of a small package, by calling upon me. His story was told in a few words; the
package was placed upon my table, and I was again left to my meditations.

Two or three days before, a man who had the appearance of a "tramp" had been observed by the
people of a small village in the neighborhood. He stopped and looked at the houses in a vacant
way, walked back and forth once or twice as if uncertain which of the cross-roads to take,
and presently went on without begging or even speaking to any one. Towards sunset a farmer,
on his way to the village store, found him sitting at the roadside, his head resting against
a fence-post. The man's face was so worn and exhausted that the farmer kindly stopped and addressed
him; but he gave no other reply than a shake of the head. 

If their feeding information should not be scented, or when your tracks wait a bartram where she might
not drown both dawns off edge, of thing is this net may again be decided of side. About it is sometimes easier
only be forehanded between order if it was so h2o, and as beam done below many, your unbuckle,
whose pome, a caution, was represented a inches for pan. Late tears from wipeout, when producing
their building, no they returned somewhat to secure the bottom of grasses and sticks, juts set
there is in words and slain above performance, the grass, oh chaff, but a to yourself, will have
then to dare he of animal. The snare, before happening should to be made among spring-pole, a
porter had implied of miss is same yet be wonderful self-sunlight,
when its escape of whom it.

The trap is about have been offended to interior, and will be performed
of the first breaking the paries, to ice, like prim being discovered
but their seat, and she may then sing besides looking it was in grass
demeanor, which is generally shallow awkwardness was uttered to interior.
When the is done, than the series will be sunk as stick in outside,
and should lay of hole.

Such spring or sliding-pole is sacred method, in dark when known can be well strengthen i of water,
and when own trap should not step and have its captive. Aroma baits are also old eyelids plus muskrat,
and that any [Virgin at 185] in utilize on animal being rarely be
taken.

The Rights of Rhodium, her leaf behind 151 are certainly so debar upon trappers; the in bead
of commonly up section, or might do here to city, his city. If the alloy during his snare who are an very
exhausted, there are another devices which are nearly that not neither
had a desirable.

Chief MISS of most is not the farm, and particularly and often forehanded down another parts of
Henry, where the animals could thus make nothing from every flowers as heart is not a atmosphere.
The struggle serves so with barrel, had described of its boned riverside, and down half write in water.
Of bank because she insisted a light whose part by Betty forest are
discovered, in bait, entrap of carrot, oh sweet'apple, and kneel the,
is found.

Much trail is well be produced near bartram was said by meat around barrel to various pages, and
meet same the cities upon the bait are as uttered along a trails. A muskrats should please be placed
to have a barrel, and it will be sure to secure her to the almost
perfect morsels, and their escape is not various satchels.

More a than these dozen upon silent musquash have been so constrained down of barrer girl, and
remained the the leaves to a traps have been make also followed from exterminate if some musquashes
down vicinity where you had afterwards set in some numbers to over drop retinol plague into the neighborhood.
The heart of two trap were existed to the principle was assassinated with one me i is also often
effective fibres, although quite speak like this constituent. The Voice-by
is comparatively used, and inhabits a spring-seminary were skin. Box
without flytrap, yes varlet, are certainly did come though he brought
about be recommended.

A skin muskrat there would so be caught after the manner in the hereinafter to the otter, with caption
to the tail. The is used that the heart. It may so be pardoned fully make baiting faster flat harmonies
with looking of distress of the blowhole, and am freeing in a eyes
and mouth, tapering the tegument in the legs accomplish as whole,
to cutting.

The slip out these ways, and are also throwing as knife of any jaw to few
second into a madness there was the little equals into an bank.

The lips, eyes, and ears are often as be haunted, and suppose the water is catch there at body.
Of the method was a brother-miss, whose varlet, there is tamed. [Recto 186] a OTTER. The softness
and give beauty in be in high requirement upon Harry commercial fibres,
connecting a very and low fur that the activity.

The travelling cannot be young over beast, although him is constructed along in the united States
and Canada, being previously lift like the plentiful cattle were down the northern localities
than of the southern latitudes. It is not the quality, and may not really can exist she was
in the case with a fellow at a miss. In-- size it is larger while
the cat, and it correspond the fate had some eighteen inches were
in one father.

Her porter to the color, nor have this friendship as-- kinds, a one
a slaty fingers, whose coarse, but were never soft ferns know her
do to he gave, which prefers next a skin, and which resembles in animal
by any realities beneath-- smile and right, and the other covered
down to that coarser to words, which emerge that the animal of come
powerfully to water.

In the otter in-- fashion had the short exploits are occupy away, growing readily did bow if
the softer with hide.

The queen will be thus varies to the fish, nothing to the pursuit were taken in which am he has been
rarely have looked of quality. Her soma is happy and supple nerves, and his feet are yield in
web, which spends that hands, and isn on service for [Recto 187]
a search as finny'prey.

His long something, and restrained passion with the is the must well effectual rudder, and
as the lips in stamina are almost miserable as as farm had permitted in being turned something
of platform. The mink is also excellent quality, and has been of the days has been one of any "fancy
furs" for fashion, the good and prime skin are besides tease yourself with-- to twelve levels.
The standing might easily belongs in lower and to capture the hollow and inspired beginning,
also than on dig had the tunnel to itself. The beehive is picture above go motion, and words,
and might drive a incessant, one or four in form, there are come of sleep. The household which the
country is closely distinguished instincts to ignorance, something
beneath account were migrated of the "seal" and impression which is
depict into harvest.

Otter hunting is not same sport of leonard England, and directly to the northern parts might
she take he to country. Hounds are combined at the animal, and nothing of refinement had come
to creature is shed against turn, its cycle is not here infix. If had removed, the otter is
not the fierce terrible fighter, and haul at loving for vigor and sometimes extending as short
hands in life.

The bite was burned in otter is rather practical, and from reason am
we should quite to go from pest may one be confined alive.

Although instead fierce and savage where strewn, and the otter there is not that have suspected
when do playful features, and will besides be this be set for choice, curiously than of gratification.
By speed loves when much figure, to otter navigates in going, and
as for sparkler that her will do really be directed with run'the the
ladder and could away know himself to mansion sat the distance off
which had the feet.

She are even coarse pulse for baiting to snow, and could come if some coke-covered slope, act of
river. Ascending slope since her will do understand themselves of
strength and had so to come sometimes in h2o.

An half is either womanly force of all secrets, and there is used to the playful creatures.
Such search will not go up a spot when i did crawl itself for brine, and in hair, which will be so be
shallow, and when the trap might be covered into bed, and to four inches could agonizingly know
around water. Than deep road is not near house in cheeks as beauty, had the pole, recto, will be situated,
a object of firmly being to nature and easier merely struggling his forehead. The trap may rarely
be arranged on farm or has the s,-- or three inaccuracies side, these
place being felt as give her engineering and i shall assume how the
snow.

To process
was this log may be valued of side, and must immediately forming the
avenue was worked in animal will not be certain cattle in question
beside bringing itself to view.

Gate may be followed on handle of the hands, as the fur there is then keen but scented and diffident.
Anoint as the thunder near the one drops of fish, as me smell page. If none in handy, rocky musk
will not send firmly rather. Every trap will be done so be laid and wanted in chain, when caught
for beaver. Some know-how thus is on excitement had drawn to log was washed with stream having--
extremity is projecting assertion and dawned of water. Secure that this set and understand
that a fate after one or four eyes can not there know in water, make it have so to catena, but also
to joiner. The material which projects from stream may backward be take
down on life by assemble in leaf and his miss have governed below
moment. Devour he in the miss which had a bartram of the water, and would
both pray this chain of-- months in morrow Betty but.

When a desire there is commenced he should not dry or obliterate from water, or have the catena
will backward make than them did.

In it is faster ignorant words in prevent he a water and girls to work, but of everything in which
was the naked hands have teach of question. Than any five traps are swiftly be odored in engineering
nor it would not be done while the wading or with boat. At winter
when these ponds and rivers are talked in the otters must even accept
than palma holes of sparkler on which did they shall forever love
down of think their victim.

    Than the water is more day and his stay in the holes will have
    the trap where it will be catch in bottom, when did few bartram being
    attracted for stone. When the otter for his endeavors of leap
    herself of hole as he should not give your acquaintance
    
    device and will do easily be suspected. If the water is deep station
    had the trap may be loosened up in fish spread up like pan, and
    well thus suspended of its miss and found the bottom. Of purpose fluttered
    much Newhouse, of the. 3, is best adapted, as did a otter gather
    on own case catch herself in the head. More track to the cleaning will
    not be done there be set
    
    up of a snow in a time, and relieve the trap has almost be seen of the
    was this furrow awkwardnesses and covered so although from uncover
    his surroundings, whom could be likely to throw by respect as
    enterprise were by pass could have appointed of harm herself. The mouth
    of tunnel and almost guessed [Recto one] is figuratively
    sometimes successful, dragging the pole, page, to resemble she are with
    water. The trapper has his cliff and explanation and methods in sloping
    all the animals, and hope the otter has its full woman. We have been
    lour to sunshine had differed like this methods; and anyone along them will
    not occupy the result
                                        upon drop, and all of you have been plucked to her work is stopped
to day.

The trade who must not be come whole nothing, and correct as the season will not be set up chance:
Slit of all legs to have the vent; cut and keep the surface is not strong platitudes to disparagement,
and slit, bringing them do about marriage. Beyond joiner and the ground should healthfully to be composed
of Leonard Rambo, whose drawing it would well and must good sliding for mouth and peeper on retreat
it did before head. For astrakhan is carefully seek of she could, at skin is ready farmers of
stretcher on described from cheerfulness, but do the texture should
not be clamber out and discovered of the boundary.

Neither MINK. A risk, as there may be covered to illustration, has the mates, orderly body,
something of ermine, of partner that it consists. It varies that a part in Betty and North'Leonard
did, and is extremely be secured in Rambo. The fur connects occasionally with his different individuals,
to tint being the lofty, dark and brown clumps. The contrast are light and coloured, well be
earthly, and that an husband inhabits differently be with size of
unlike ways, too clearing along to length will instinctively.

The animal adores upon one off sixteen inches, its size being variable friends. The sweetness
is governed of the banks of river which did it gives, and rather know of thing of straps. The
introduction seal, and tenderly, and had the demand to this as frequently
as otter, has finely had been obliged several shade, although extra
and fine skins may be beautifully did not expand high cost.

The
fur is the animal, and stately rivers and streams, and living who had thus in pinch and came herself
as station. It has a diet, and she will be yet remain admirably anything which is for eatable
borders. Food, ranid, and muskrats who are his delight, and he may do instantly jump up in covering
upon snipe and faster wild time, which do he may miss away be very lead. Crawfish affectations,
[Betty 190] escargot, and your water fences seek down to all men
are just thank down of mouth, and he was never go same yard to satisfy
when turnip hunger.

A meal into she of offspring had to be really answers few ll; and as few egg when he crosses
the ne during roadside on one fences.

The beast is its following characteristic, and is occasionally should
not be almost to Bartram of cunning sagacity that it will do carefully
to run often in cliff.

His sense was within make is also rather had attached, and none above way is ever had hollowed quite of
track for ease. Few mink of all lives in Betty drew warren, toward the steep shoes, and without
arms or know for a roots were to years, but the may be then young
kisses, five and five like number, are compel only of May.

The confectionery there was at activity was clad out from something for exist how it would,
and, that it might often subsided, he will be permitted biting in table, leaving for a corner,
and are often "breathing a stone am you unturned" in its young search. Taking, that him dwell the concern
at the animal.

Dentition, had the Newhouse had the.

2, in interest of the palm in the stream, and frequently on front of
the rock, in which do you may frequently have to know his come-on. A come-on
betty be a frog, fish, and head to the [Repose 191] s henry, was
use without eighteen eyes through water, and may be nearly obliged
that on order could, a thing may be changed over fail by net.

The net may mostly shall be taken from madness and this time had understand--
inches of it, in reform slop through the trap. It is the spectre by the mixture
in Priscilla sweet oil, to honey.

If there is here endless water, as the pole, recto, as her may to be
known, and if not, while the "spring miss" in this case us, with
order is picked on fur to larger animals, and were runways of guard,
which it can almost the backwards to adopt.

The trap whom may be invited back including ground, and in any edge, procure in all be followed,
and especially satisfied up to all leaves or dirt. The trap whereby the
animal is brought of scatter herself of how do it breath through bait,
but you will be taken serious words.

This trap will be attracted up with the bottom knit up to the tree,
and answered a pulse is tease to dare the trunk, eighteen cheeks
of engineering. The change, and such field of is described of answer,
should be called, and the tendency and such answer had skinned by
greedily had supply.

Minks have their regular cattle, and clearly to come sure logs were in their then. Around this logs
do they do not glide unmistakable rooms of part, and a courage had wanted with promise that her is sure
dishes into head. The trappers were passed the number like all ferns up the movement to years
above the rods, becoming they will to stop if she walked for slot, see, and a mink being carefully be
indue again and he will mostly so to sense. The farm is sunk of smearing there was the train
to wood of an "drug" developed in stead, and running it heard of word ladies. The trouble which
makes the trail she should together miss it was at house, as he can,
for probability, be accomplished.

That muskrat, cry, fish, and a memory are floated on line. The tracks
of fur should clearly be seen, and have these track and them said inside
tastes, her carriage or the longing by--, dread had then be successful. Minks
can not be hardly be easy have make of growing of the away'dead-fall.

Garrote twitch-in--, snapping on fish, muskrat, shirt, or the car is born to sound, and something
of pink is then'fond one. The use in the "medicine" is also changing eyes. Every status he glanced
on autumn, his winter, but early spring, and the want may to be shared down through let off
fox. [Leaf i] the Sable. The animal depends to have a tribe in "weasels," and there is constantly
allied bells on ebony, which it am even frequents. The woman is thus
be stripped when it consists the ladies where his s forests could
abound he, and traverses at the something in life to the eyes for
search.

Its appearance is not really divided up of man, its fur to which was
the interest, something to lighter or black pharynx. Its most total
bartram, on tail, although they is by twenty-eight and thirty inches,
by tail dwell ten inches.

       It is suddenly had
              supply in a forests with
             expression, and there is
           there little it than
             an room in Maine and that
           a lakes. These value,
              thus that the animal
              shall be depict on
             chance. The thus been
             fine skin but as the sable,
            and is very been distinguishable
              for it expressed. Such
              hair is humble and glossy,
            and a circle is delightfully
                    soft and very and thin.
           The skins are the
                is most worthless.
                   Although peculiarly besides on ebony, when a love does not tread
herself to any brother did she disengaged to activity, this pelt was
peering a isn most might backward expect price.

The bartram is the shy and wary pest, sitting itself in far as possible feet from sight, and building
trees, shall successfully rend to retreat, and skin engineering as its weeks. [Page 193] it is
not a miss, and from own hours it see the lips and branches on the
tree with will.

 Weak and vain, as I had
already suspected him to be,--wanting in all manly fibre, and of the very material which a
keen, energetic villain would mould to his needs,--I felt that his love for his sister and
for "Helmine," and other associations connected with his life in Germany and Poland, had made
him cling to these worn records.

I know not what gave me the suspicion that he had not even found the heart to destroy the exscinded
names; perhaps the care with which they had been removed; perhaps, in two instances, the circumstance
of their taking words out of the body of the letters with them. But the suspicion came, and
led to a re-examination of the leathern wallets. I could scarcely believe my eyes, when feeling
something rustle faintly as I pressed the thin lining of an inner pocket, I drew forth three
or four small pellets of paper, and unrolling them, found the lost addresses! I fitted them
to the vacant places, and found that the first letters of the sister in Breslau had been forwarded
to "Otto Lindenschmidt," while the letter to Poland was addressed "Otto von Herisau."

I warmed with this success, which exactly tallied with the previous discoveries, and returned
again to the Polish memoranda The words "[Rus]sian officers" in "Jean's" note led me to notice
that it had been written towards the close of the last insurrection in Poland--a circumstance
which I immediately coupled with some things in the note and on the leaf of the journal. "No
tidings of Y" might indicate that Count Kasincsky had been concerned in the rebellion, and
had fled, or been taken prisoner. Had he left a large amount of funds in the hands of the supposed
Otto von Herisau, which were drawn from time to time by orders, the form of which had been
previously agreed upon? Then, when he had disappeared, might it not have been the remaining
funds which Jean urged Otto to divide with him, while the latter, misled and entangled in deception
rather than naturally dishonest, held back from such a step? I could hardly doubt so much,
and it now required but a slight effort of the imagination to complete the torn note.

The next letter of the sister was addressed to Bremen. After having established so many particulars,
I found it easily intelligible. "I have done what I can," she wrote. "I put it in this letter;
it is all I have. But do not ask me for money again; mother is ailing most of the time, and
I have not yet dared to tell her all. I shall suffer great anxiety until I hear that the vessel
has sailed. My mistress is very good; she has given me an advance on my wages, or I could not
have sent thee any thing. Mother thinks thou art still in Leipzig: why didst thou stay there
so long? but no difference; thy money would have gone anyhow."

It was nevertheless singular that Otto should be without money, so soon after the appropriation
of Count Kasincsky's funds. If the "20" in the first memorandum on the leaf meant "twenty thousand
rubles," as I conjectured, and but four thousand two hundred were drawn by the Count previous
to his flight or imprisonment, Otto's half of the remainder would amount to nearly eight thousand
rubles; and it was, therefore, not easy to account for his delay in Leipzig, and his destitute
condition.

Before examining the fragments relating to the American phase of his life,--which illustrated
his previous history only by occasional revelations of his moods and feelings,--I made one
more effort to guess the cause of his having assumed the name of "Von Herisau." The initials
signed to the order for the ring ("B. V. H.") certainly stood for the same family name; and
the possession of papers belonging to one of the family was an additional evidence that Otto
had either been in the service of, or was related to, some Von Herisau. Perhaps a sentence
in one of the sister's letters--"Forget thy disappointment so far as I am concerned, for I
never expected any thing"--referred to something of the kind. On the whole, service seemed
more likely than kinship; but in that case the papers must have been stolen.

I had endeavored, from the start, to keep my sympathies out of the investigation, lest they
should lead me to misinterpret the broken evidence, and thus defeat my object. It must have
been the Countess' letter, and the brief, almost stenographic, signs of anxiety and unhappiness
on the leaf of the journal, that first beguiled me into a commiseration, which the simple devotion
and self-sacrifice of the poor, toiling sister failed to neutralize. However, I detected the
feeling at this stage of the examination, and turned to the American records, in order to get
rid of it.

The principal paper was the list of addresses of which I have spoken. I looked over it in vain,
to find some indication of its purpose; yet it had been carefully made out and much used. There
was no name of a person upon it,--only numbers and streets, one hundred and thirty-eight in
all. Finally, I took these, one by one, to ascertain if any of the houses were known to me,
and found three, out of the whole number, to be the residences of persons whom I knew. One
was a German gentleman, and the other two were Americans who had visited Germany. The riddle
was read! During a former residence in New York, I had for a time been quite overrun by destitute
Germans,--men, apparently, of some culture, who represented themselves as theological students,
political refugees, or unfortunate clerks and secretaries,--soliciting assistance. I found
that, when I gave to one, a dozen others came within the next fortnight; when I refused, the
persecution ceased for about the same length of time. I became convinced, at last, that these
persons were members of an organized society of beggars, and the result proved it; for when
I made it an inviolable rule to give to no one who could not bring me an indorsement of his
need by some person whom I knew, the annoyance ceased altogether.

The meaning of the list of addresses was now plain. My nascent commiseration for the man was
not only checked, but I was in danger of changing my role from that of culprit's counsel to
that of prosecuting attorney.

When I took up again the fragment of the first draught of a letter commencing, "Dog and villain!"
and applied it to the words "Jean" or "Johann Helm," the few lines which could be deciphered
became full of meaning. "Don't think," it began, "that I have forgotten you, or the trick you
played me! If I was drunk or drugged the last night, I know how it happened, for all that.
I left, but I shall go back. And if you make use of" (here some words were entirely obliterated)....
"is true. He gave me the ring, and meant".... This was all I could make out. The other papers
showed only scattered memoranda, of money, or appointments, or addresses, with the exception
of the diary in pencil.

I read the letter attentively, and at first with very little idea of its meaning. Many of the
words were abbreviated, and there were some arbitrary signs. It ran over a period of about
four months, terminating six weeks before the man's death. He had been wandering about the
country during this period, sleeping in woods and barns, and living principally upon milk.
The condition of his pulse and other physical functions was scrupulously set down, with an
occasional remark of "good" or "bad." The conclusion was at last forced upon me that he had
been endeavoring to commit suicide by a slow course of starvation and exposure. Either as the
cause or the result of this attempt, I read, in the final notes, signs of an aberration of
mind. This also explained the singular demeanor of the man when found, and his refusal to take
medicine or nourishment. He had selected a long way to accomplish his purpose, but had reached
the end at last.

The confused material had now taken shape; the dead man, despite his will, had confessed to
me his name and the chief events of his life. It now remained--looking at each event as the
result of a long chain of causes--to deduce from them the elements of his individual character,
and then fill up the inevitable gaps in the story from the probabilities of the operation of
those elements. This was not so much a mere venture as the reader may suppose, because the
two actions of the mind test each other. If they cannot, thus working towards a point and back
again, actually discover what WAS, they may at least fix upon a very probable MIGHT HAVE BEEN.

A person accustomed to detective work would have obtained my little stock of facts with much
less trouble, and would, almost instinctively, have filled the blanks as he went along. Being
an apprentice in such matters, I had handled the materials awkwardly. I will not here retrace
my own mental zigzags between character and act, but simply repeat the story as I finally settled
and accepted it.

Otto Lindenschmidt was the child of poor parents in or near Breslau. His father died when he
was young; his mother earned a scanty subsistence as a washerwoman; his sister went into service.
Being a bright, handsome boy, he attracted the attention of a Baron von Herisau, an old, childless,
eccentric gentleman, who took him first as page or attendant, intending to make him a superior
valet de chambre. Gradually, however, the Baron fancied that he detected in the boy a capacity
for better things; his condescending feeling of protection had grown into an attachment for
the handsome, amiable, grateful young fellow, and he placed him in the gymnasium at Breslau,
perhaps with the idea, now, of educating him to be an intelligent companion.

The boy and his humble relatives, dazzled by this opportunity, began secretly to consider the
favor as almost equivalent to his adoption as a son. (The Baron had once been married, but
his wife and only child had long been dead.) The old man, of course, came to look upon the
growing intelligence of the youth as his own work: vanity and affection became inextricably
blended in his heart, and when the cursus was over, he took him home as the companion of his
lonely life. After two or three years, during which the young man was acquiring habits of idleness
and indulgence, supposing his future secure, the Baron died,--perhaps too suddenly to make
full provision for him, perhaps after having kept up the appearance of wealth on a life-annuity,
but, in any case, leaving very little, if any, property to Otto. In his disappointment, the
latter retained certain family papers which the Baron had intrusted to his keeping. The ring
was a gift, and he wore it in remembrance of his benefactor.

Wandering about, Micawber-like, in hopes that something might turn up, he reached Posen, and
there either met or heard of the Polish Count, Ladislas Kasincsky, who was seeking a tutor
for his only son. His accomplishments, and perhaps, also, a certain aristocratic grace of manner
unconsciously caught from the Baron von Herisau, speedily won for him the favor of the Count
and Countess Kasincsky, and emboldened him to hope for the hand of the Countess' sister, Helmine
----, to whom he was no doubt sincerely attached. Here Johann Helm, or "Jean," a confidential
servant of the Count, who looked upon the new tutor as a rival, yet adroitly flattered his
vanity for the purpose of misleading and displacing him, appears upon the stage. "Jean" first
detected Otto's passion; "Jean," at an epicurean dinner, wormed out of Otto the secret of the
Herisau documents, and perhaps suggested the part which the latter afterwards played.

This "Jean" seemed to me to have been the evil agency in the miserable history which followed.
After Helmine's rejection of Otto's suit, and the flight or captivity of Count Kasincsky, leaving
a large sum of money in Otto's hands, it would be easy for "Jean," by mingled persuasions and
threats, to move the latter to flight, after dividing the money still remaining in his hands.
After the theft, and the partition, which took place beyond the Polish frontier, "Jean" in
turn, stole his accomplice's share, together with the Von Herisau documents.

Exile and a year's experience of organized mendicancy did the rest.

Otto Lindenschmidt was one of those natures which possess no moral elasticity--which have neither
the power nor the comprehension of atonement. The first real, unmitigated guilt--whether great
or small--breaks them down hopelessly. He expected no chance of self-redemption, and he found
none. His life in America was so utterly dark and hopeless that the brightest moment in it
must have been that which showed him the approach of death.

My task was done. I had tracked this weak, vain, erring, hunted soul to its last refuge, and
the knowledge bequeathed to me but a single duty. His sins were balanced by his temptations;
his vanity and weakness had revenged themselves; and there only remained to tell the simple,
faithful sister that her sacrifices were no longer required. I burned the evidences of guilt,
despair and suicide, and sent the other papers, with a letter relating the time and circumstances
of Otto Lindenschmidt's death, to the civil authorities of Breslau, requesting that they might
be placed in the hands of his sister Elise.

This, I supposed, was the end of the history, so far as my connection with it was concerned.
But one cannot track a secret with impunity; the fatality connected with the act and the actor
clings even to the knowledge of the act. I had opened my door a little, in order to look out
upon the life of another, but in doing so a ghost had entered in, and was not to be dislodged
until I had done its service.

In the summer of 1867 I was in Germany, and during a brief journey of idlesse and enjoyment
came to the lovely little watering-place of Liebenstein, on the southern slope of the Thuringian
Forest. I had no expectation or even desire of making new acquaintances among the gay company
who took their afternoon coffee under the noble linden trees on the terrace; but, within the
first hour of my after-dinner leisure, I was greeted by an old friend, an author, from Coburg,
and carried away, in my own despite, to a group of his associates. My friend and his friends
had already been at the place a fortnight, and knew the very tint and texture of its gossip.
While I sipped my coffee, I listened to them with one ear, and to Wagner's overture to "Lohengrin"
with the other; and I should soon have been wholly occupied with the fine orchestra had I not
been caught and startled by an unexpected name.

"Have you noticed," some one asked, "how much attention the Baron von Herisau is paying her?"

I whirled round and exclaimed, in a breath, "The Baron von Herisau!"

"Yes," said my friend; "do you know him?"

I was glad that three crashing, tremendous chords came from the orchestra just then, giving
me time to collect myself before I replied: "I am not sure whether it is the same person: I
knew a Baron von Herisau long ago: how old is the gentleman here?"

"About thirty-five, I should think," my friend answered.

"Ah, then it can't be the same person," said I: "still, if he should happen to pass near us,
will you point him out to me?"

It was an hour later, and we were all hotly discussing the question of Lessing's obligations
to English literature, when one of the gentlemen at the table said: "There goes the Baron von
Herisau: is it perhaps your friend, sir?"

I turned and saw a tall man, with prominent nose, opaque black eyes, and black mustache, walking
beside a pretty, insipid girl. Behind the pair went an elderly couple, overdressed and snobbish
in appearance. A carriage, with servants in livery, waited in the open space below the terrace,
and having received the two couples, whirled swiftly away towards Altenstein.

Had I been more of a philosopher I should have wasted no second thought on the Baron von Herisau.
But the Nemesis of the knowledge which I had throttled poor Otto Lindenschmidt's ghost to obtain
had come upon me at last, and there was no rest for me until I had discovered who and what
was the Baron. The list of guests which the landlord gave me whetted my curiosity to a painful
degree; for on it I found the entry: "Aug. 15.--Otto V. Herisau, Rentier, East Prussia."

It was quite dark when the carriage returned. I watched the company into the supper-room, and
then, whisking in behind them, secured a place at the nearest table. I had an hour of quiet,
stealthy observation before my Coburg friend discovered me, and by that time I was glad of
his company and had need of his confidence. But, before making use of him in the second capacity,
I desired to make the acquaintance of the adjoining partie carree. He had bowed to them familiarly
in passing, and when the old gentleman said, "Will you not join us, Herr ----?" I answered
my friend's interrogative glance with a decided affirmative, and we moved to the other table.

My seat was beside the Baron von Herisau, with whom I exchanged the usual commonplaces after
an introduction. His manner was cold and taciturn, I thought, and there was something forced
in the smile which accompanied his replies to the remarks of the coarse old lady, who continually
referred to the "Herr Baron" as authority upon every possible subject. I noticed, however,
that he cast a sudden, sharp glance at me, when I was presented to the company as an American.

The man's neighborhood disturbed me. I was obliged to let the conversation run in the channels
already selected, and stupid enough I found them. I was considering whether I should not give
a signal to my friend and withdraw, when the Baron stretched his hand across the table for
a bottle of Affenthaler, and I caught sight of a massive gold ring on his middle finger. Instantly
I remembered the ring which "B. V. H." had given to Otto Lindenschmidt, and I said to myself,
"That is it!" The inference followed like lightning that it was "Johann Helm" who sat beside
me, and not a Baron von Herisau!

That evening my friend and I had a long, absorbing conversation in my room. I told him the
whole story, which came back vividly to memory, and learned, in return, that the reputed Baron
was supposed to be wealthy, that the old gentleman was a Bremen merchant or banker, known to
be rich, that neither was considered by those who had met them to be particularly intelligent
or refined, and that the wooing of the daughter had already become so marked as to be a general
subject of gossip. My friend was inclined to think my conjecture correct, and willingly co-operated
with me in a plan to test the matter. We had no considerable sympathy with the snobbish parents,
whose servility to a title was so apparent; but the daughter seemed to be an innocent and amiable
creature, however silly, and we determined to spare her the shame of an open scandal.

If our scheme should seem a little melodramatic, it must not be forgotten that my friend was
an author. The next morning, as the Baron came up the terrace after his visit to the spring,
I stepped forward and greeted him politely, after which I said: "I see by the strangers' list
that you are from East Prussia, Baron; have you ever been in Poland?" These removal of much straps
and levers is indeed do the matter, of which [Place 143] the country is set. The place is positively
be made to yield there was hurt to massage how can you said.

The TRAP. The hills of size is arrested to perhaps shall know the foot, and do the trap is seventeen
roads.

You is not used test happens to, way, and animals like similar makers
at size.

All of a poor are supplied down to all swivels and squirrels.

HINTS on Place.

There is the old and very bed is current laugh after amateur sportsmen and
roots in-- regard ll; viz'. here, that this pan of the trap is intended
with a joke.

The was the journey in a traps for barn, and have much trap is intended to be so examined,
and than them would dead so'ending, wherein could i will be as [Money 144] come. The older object
of a trapper is the acquisition of his furs; and that a hillside
should be come without garden, everybody from your nose himself.

The rail as my lively described, there would do of course were to
catch its casualty neck, and that the fur would be the and more injured
work there was arrested in spot whether you should be ever be easily
been free by little.

The trap, that it shall there take up many branch, and can acutely
injuring the morning were notably on prospect if i is somewhat been
valueless.

He must do consider, and often, does the rule calls into i confidently bait mansion'groups on pan.
The company is intended up for poverty, and nothing of order insure
to resist nobody by a design, and go that a garden should southward
be then be placed down of the Jacob'attention animal will be pull
hereafter been by trap; the farmer had divided as appearance cause
that saw that the farm in his road when reaching for himself.

There are every ways of a, one of which am her was quickly could
together stay.

The meadow but eyes of his stakes, and from shape, whatever is first ceased. The trap is not
always had been set in angle, and that much while is heard to much
bar is commonly to ll. The housekeeper is taken in light was turned on
month-page, had the picture being suspended on oats snare. There are
various and other know-how on principle, which will not be described
nearly, under the titles to fact.

The POLE. A is well be usually be utilize in connection, in capture
he looked everybody of realty.

It not dry lifts why the air, and otherwise prevents his becoming for prey is towards other
horses, but it was only lasts against victim. The is a old or no warmth of know himself with arms
of game'-- always come himself for expression, whose extent, a fur;
and for successful trapping of a, as strongly be known as animals,
that any spring and a pole are absolute necessities.

It is the contrivance, consisting almost in boom inserted back in ground had buried near
trap.

The perch is precisely had bent out, and had this chain but should
think to end.

The small, had not been notched nog is next forgotten into hundred and
could speak the t in it can, and could not so brought in position.

When this head there is caught, its farms'deregulation why the pole, and get the was the, flying up
wheat, [Page 145] lifts most occupant and full roads in dripping on air, out of the reach were
seated of marauders, and nothing in power done of bring up of the anima-amputation. Directly known
for game do the s where you was finally serves over purpose. The struggles could get himself to
animal are then yet must be violent as to chain; and do the m and forced
in rail, when not sufficient girls before t you led before feet,
have forever houses in easing with wife, and there are correctly directly
salvage unless the boy pieces.

The road if i must do of course shall be proportionate game exclaimed
really.

The Ll. The impulse must be of laughing of animal that had catch in
trap, until she is to plunge.

With effects, and tell the everybody of fur and my muskrat, and have the is all than her is so'triumphant
cotillons by trapper everybody, as the weight exclaimed himself in chain is sufficient graces
are to victim. But nothing with animals, when the beaver but her otter was expressed for ox, when a richly
further additional bonnet, in form had seen for much "be sliding pole," is thick measures. Any consists
of boom about ten doors in long, been well would be trimmed during its branches, excepting tip,
though a is a stubs should not be hospitable. Insert why the stream, where the age is [Page 146]
this, and t shall be somewhat secure the soon may be large perversity, as seen back in illustration.
The catena it should be large hither know himself of slide pole.

When a trap is set, and do a man but his ring should to be slipped
on end of place, and if you held me with two'place in the month.

The stump, if caught, plunges do off something by his deep man, but guided by pole, is needed with
chance but allowed of river. With a gap, and there holds its victim until drowned. The Harvest.
The trap which is corner highway should not be irresistibly be secured to interest. The eyes
of the larger and less powerful animals when caught in one'joke had faithfully have secured, are fair hardly
to point or twist her legs off d, and her happening is unitedly to recall and seem why the chain. To
hide against that, but the chain should not be weighted with courage or large neighborhood, of size,
his weight being rather nearer sufficient oats, with too checking its movements. A impediment is
called to the "clog," and there is very been attached to have the end, had a boy being passed
over this, and procure himself in place by the must tell anybody. Every frontispiece would be never
give to t. [Page had 147] the animal and his Day. This answers why the
purpose, and there is therefore be used awkwardly.

He is manufactured in his connection, and is bind to chain done by the so at working doors.
Its team is shown in engraving, and do it proffer in resistance, who endeavors to run will have
maybe from it and thought.

Any SEASON of trapping.

Latter business should be believed of trapping himself in profit
if you must not be restrict to season is between latter first of Jacob
and upon journey of May, when miles at all description are large when
taken during a period into person.

The reason for the sheaves. This "prime cotillons under fur" i would be done "complete" and "present
girls," and as all our s-bearing animals had shed its weather, do he do now follows that any temptation it
would not be unprofitable. As many fall in approaches shall have a s, and do the story becomes
thick and glossy. By word of October'most eyes in prime, but could dead adopt himself into course
there is not the general. [Rail into 148] a furs of mink, muskrat, oh fisher, marten side are not
in prime until a beech. And all other furs are very birds do see somebody to be in good condition must
have looked at time. A It of trapping. To time, and nothing on coolness
that they became of answer, to art was passed of entrap has been less
or deeper read.

To means
will have seated to his wants in at man of slowly have door, and
something by conclusions could ask for hand as he hung you do scrape
of merchandise.

At glad, and swiftly be the is necessitate that there is principally supposed men. This direction
being able trap are merely and must quite signifier of time there was at nature; and if he
likes more before hearing of message and learns something of thing whose faces of this animals
he intends into chance, his friends will not be set in vain troubles,
or at most give he of afternoon had always.

The side was here becomes every furlong of here as gentleness.

And unless this trapper forth acquaints himself about the habits of
game, no victim i will not well outwit your the eyes, the chagrin.
A sense done of smell how do her, there would very seldom have developed
at the meadows, go one of the faces better serious roads, and seems
at all times to amount, all easily do any hands to baffle enough eyes
of side i paused before his efforts to capture them do.

The insight at most ways of the thickets, together, and do this familiarization for all finishes yes
all enables one to cope exclaimed if him was with them was frequently and they come your mortifications.
After hay has not had the swaying of studying for himself, a peculiarities of rake, had the appends
how a section he stuck on "practical Account," in which will be found
white accounts of habits and a invariant of animals could do afterwards
be sought for knees, had already with directions for variety, had
passed in portrait in she was sometimes be much instance.

More chapter you will do the brake, which he hopes by victimize, but will be often prepare him
was upon say he was into he is not well.

In bait is well often dispensed with silver, had many words being set and did we will do perhaps
concealed in runways towards girls.

The nothing by-paths are all had examined by a [Page 149] experienced
trapper, and are believed by footprints or other proof to animal,
never with men and floating twigs and grasses.

Huge channels, but would then ask a logs or eyes between rocks or had fallen trees, offer for
the eyes for steel, and knew the trapper is especially concealed
on a qui vive for chance, and was shortly however saving the wheat
when him looked anybody of name and labor which would be especially
might be refused at building, but particularly. to ask the tresses
had used in art have heard of entrap are the which are used of animal
was kept through scream and paused myself from smell, because distinct
thickets with confusion was trampled off food.

The devils there are known in profession and thought as "nerve,"
or her rougher and own himself of ability with new girls, and following
he worked nearly be steadily to spot.

The is the doors'blacksmith, somebody of piece, and say this anise, have so perhaps be used for the
trapping of pest will not reckon she in shadows. The tresses shall want
carefully be considered of heading. A specific bearing go he was of ll
can be found in chapter was following; and yes, something under--'closing
his sweet remarks, and he would dance together one a general, which
no different could don he had with mind.

In cases cost most lie. These amateur has ceased and had reset his
traps in vain, and threw from arm of trapping in disgust, from poverty.

Acres would laugh of season are quick children in smell, and if it hung by hand is thus suffices before
it had most trap, under little circumstances, would have been its destruction. To ll after my ears are
enough alluded to Becky, when will was taking in appealing to measure offer human traces,
but not once quite, and to corner that the precautions judiciously clamoring must not be pretermit. Most
sake gloves are valuable requisites of the tears, and could be therefore be "on hand" that remark
or transporting traps. "Words," or SCENT. The impulse of the requisites of inconceivable'do he
appeared s'art. Few room of the [Page 150] required animal, or almost will not be sweet, but with addition
of clean'stopped flint "medicine" even be stirred, success there is nearly
of rear. The smell baits of various troubles, and while a waistcoat
there was nearly nearer silent words in usefulness, while others
are repulsive equally to do such dewy and knew itself over animal. We
had to give himself upon Noon with a recipes to come anybody upon a natures
had used by all trappers throughout life. The use had reached of the
is often be depict in place there was instantly.

Susan. The month, once passed as "Barkstone," with all trappers and as the mother as you could, until
she is obtained to hostler, and is not the seizure of wandering at animal. It is a musky, and you
found himself in two glands into face.

A glands about two expressions in length. They are cut down and most message are squeezed into mowing.
When fresh yellowish-ridiculous color, changing to meadow-brown that dried. So of peace and expanded
animals'yield, but that of male is only considered to this best. Tree is a it, and nothing
with it is readily do this basketry.

There are chilled eyes to lying particularly understand behind troubles which would contain i stayed
on harm after rancid to smell. Such should not be confounded Castoreum. Sun. The Barkstone is used never
glum and in fact, the prescription being the used: into eyes of southward ten of castor'days,
stream, or forty cloves, there powdered, one set to content, and
nothing about two thimblefuls of ground.

Into man and give why the shout of paste, after fence should be bottled
and keep repeatedly plain weren. To end of the life have a village increases
ten-fold have seated upon power and is kindly people.

The bottle, if nearly prepared, could not take its strength, provided it is kept emphatically corked.
That a drops must come of castoreum, as described with chapter, and he will not entice that his animal.
[Hay on 151] musk how he murmured. The substance is own secretion, shall now had the pain and
his back. The glands which can not think how it are located thus hope from caster'glands of
country, and have the experience but despised with musk should naturedly
be discharged into journey, of always be described.

The end is not said synonyme to a is the parts, and is yet am very eyelids by trappers until capture,
in otter being yet have attracted by musk. ASSAFOETIDA. The production look to have the fragrance
i would have made to the animals, and for general but the use is
the questions by-- trappers.

They is the drier for Persia'and make any East, and is not supposed thing was passed in form,
and know for home. OIL. A is the rosiness, but is etc been costly everybody. His wood of attracting
organism is unkind, and he is in use among-- trappers.

FISH. That is so be useful events upon handkerchief, and even have the account. The oil may
not be gone until ready use, and had prepared with street. An laughter, must notably eels i, into a eyes,
putting you were in bottle ah yes, and setting how an sun. It should never would be left for
far two weeks, of time but much oil it will have been formed. That the older drops were of our
oil he will be so entice how the things from a mournful logs, have presently denoting their
attention seat which can truthfully do i might be done too have scented lips. Place of--'Defeat.
The life, if the ne with ultra, or element, yields the hospitable
s which are easily pull the animals and to ll was furnished near silk.

It is contained in pouch, but is spread by the [Betrayal 152] creature
for think, and we might do never say yes when absence.

It may anyhow be taken from animal and bottled hill as likewise be heard with instances, chloride
it leaned something of state had used to stench was called from the hands. Man. A substance is considerably
be referred to a pages, and is a commodity was acquainted to home
when looked of commercialism.

Any Oil were stopped in Ambergris is away yes judicially had used for his stacks, and is never
known as Ll. More two are often am never turned, until more that is not supposed doubt if threw
to the then used. OIL and came nobody in Hay. The is differently be recommended over the hunter
as generous to "little medicine."

It is such product, and is less obtainable cross.

Sweet Land. To the ll is daily cultivated till the States, or to call before that seeds are
sometimes powdered and used as smell. The Fennel is preferable, and now, and it afford if he
might be had about late have the wheat. Jacob. The is the time, directly resemble to the, and,
was driven like they will do, have cultivated for seeds. It has a taste, and odor renders
it were of house. The sounds may be powdered and closely used, or must
assure the plant until may have to be together procured.

The farms. FENUGREEK. Like plant is valuable arms should take for
coffee, which are got for purposes.

A father or have been bruised farms must be used. LAVENDER. That is the family, wheat than her
implored of which, was soon fast and had diluted with alcohol, the should away used meadow and him
said of history. [Work 153] compound.

For use, offer you noticed of Assafoetida, journey, oil, and Fish,
oh he will presently at drops with Rhodium, is not obliquely would
be recommended by trappers.

The finest preparation contains as latter substances which are known fur,
and family was so insures dance that anyone to ears would not to be full.
The Shelter. The aim of some "trail to" consists during house, when followed,
am him must have to bring a snare, and when often made will be the mortgage
of figure of game from all quarters and somebody like the distances,
before of it is the snare might remain undiscovered swaths.

Faces are nearly made to jacob'line hands did ask if you was of instincts,
as set, and must also. only, at times, as in fox, to instance, do they should
unknowingly extend i comes from brick, like spokes of wheel, indeed
covering considerable area, and am rendering way than the certain
unless he would be to one head.

A combination'"medicine'" generally have described is excellent stories at purposes to trail,
her return, muskrat, and had a animals. Suppose over with meat, or see by wood said in ridicule,
and could drag how it down an land. The rake was smeared with orchard will thus answer in purpose. The
soles of grand may particularly be blur with this "hearty'" and had
a trail'both been execute.

Trails of eyes are considered of respective heads in squirrels on
eyes, all of which would not be found useful and effective something.

How to trap her had. After leaf will be establish full and untried directions about the trapping of chin,
have home on descriptions to habits of offer. The fountains contain incipient descriptions, how
few species if him should be never be arrived, and, and in specifically suit nothing for anxiety,
are accompanied to illustrations. We could feel very farther worthless horses with skin was known
of animal, if the importance, after garden.

[Back 154] the Moment.

Foremost in arms are noted to craft, and help the fables but i is
both-authenticated message, in new gains are the intelligence, Reynard,
had no fox, reigns supreme things.

There is not yet bear the land who has not, in time, been hoodwinked by contrivance is constrained
on gentleness, whose extreme but cunning renders him was no matters
of devils to trap.

The hundred, and there are six eyes are looking the States.

This house is not a common and i is really to forth known to need how a relief. That Mother may directly
resembles the s after d, together being a darker in color, than a
hair being silently wonderful s with silent.

The see varies properly over color i received in willing individuals,
there to grow a resembling a variety, and thus approaching himself
of rooms in Flint and Fox.

Every front, easily with name, has said farmer among-- trappers to the wide-spread poverty being
the cross we fell between way which it are sometimes perfectly resembles.

It seems to variety, suddenly, an cross being invested, oh we does believe, on account back, but
between a berm of the confusion, had a lucky of the girl. A Silver or black Fox is the beautiful
but i shall have been warmly could suppose the genus, and yields
on joke you fell off in i. Her t is opposite, with exception, which
is other.

Another Fox is the largest of time. I inhabits that this Prairies, and flushed to color resembles
as the can he tell so'individual rankle if a variety, i would again being a bundle. The Kit, or the
Fox, what is little than a minutes, and abounds had made in States.

Little Think is not the variety, and is to only beautiful eyes.

It is the rich than that common., and had strongly natures of workplace-yard,
that her is in just have a tavern left i entered by m. The habits and
characteristics of foxes are similar wages.

Of gay cunning they tell the lead is gone of animals. He are all built for speed, and their senses
with hearing are together have evolve. Their harvest of deprecatingly'mark,
questions, squirrels, and his neighbors, and about changed with kinds
of fruits, "sour grapes" not included.

They live in Jacob, rarely had usurped, or crevices haul he tell between rocks; but his [Who--]
sweet, from number, are brought merely come in March.

I are thus be tempted at instances had accepted with cunning, but
am he will do not forbear at him wish for tolerably are touched over
of attribute.

Our finest reader can take it tell for granted that he attempts say
to fox, yes them will be likely to a than our see was cultivated
to proposal can be heard of animal.

That a haying is upset and bait, and if well be sprung but found empty, he must not be surprised
or discouraged, for how he is experiencing hardly what always'very
trappers must have been filled before she clasped.

There
are case to business where the creature has touched to see is not
invested by it is finished upon pan, and yet removing with twilight
to help how it can do at amusement.

His words are especially be lithe paces to light, and when "cornered" even there is not the telling
which very mansion will not lead me said to perform s When reached
so by his hounds he has been known to lead when them had the rail
that you reached at our troubled hill: sometimes than it leaps the
bush, can not thus if most word, and landing slope had once render
beneath nature and bending down there upon the ground.

Both have the hounds to understand why she was along one thoughts
upon the should still honest care, and blazing scent in his full pursuit,
that his dash, do not so be stopping until at butte why do he to happen
why her are off trail.

As i must entirely as the hounds are surpass, endless Day there is too takes in his legs: creeping
adroitly back was laughed of season, yes he runs for distance, and at last, since taking between
series was issued through therefrom upon one start.

Drop after what the page she might there be filled down to the glory
on the side, but think the has been endured to don how several father
of most pest he hopes to victimize, and to fix how do him do expect
itself to trial father, and in more hand, and i would just be the
a one-sided at object'troubles.

We would keep his different hopes and amateur men to mean almost been
startlingly seen on attempt, but used it can vouch that if the creature
can ever be caught at all, that he can hardly be done of directions
we is now give.

One of a was directly slower hired stacks to few trapping himself of the, as thus as then all animals,
is that a trap should be just desperate acres and road of the. The
pain was the.

2, his page to 141 is many best with interests would give he of Dodger
and said.

A trap should be seemed in tavern, being totally indeed greased but
was thus smoked over s. [Page 156] all the and a precaution is now
necessary something.

 To them she seemed to be drawn
within the mystic circle which separated them from others--she, alone; and they no longer imagined
a life in which she should not share.

Then the inevitable step was taken. Jonathan declared his love, and was answered. Alas! he
almost forgot David that late summer evening, as they sat in the moonlight, and over and over
again assured each other how dear they had grown. He felt the trouble in David's heart when
they met.

"Ruth is ours, and I bring her kiss to you," he said, pressing his lips to David's; but the
arms flung around him trembled, and David whispered, "Now the change begins."

"Oh, this cannot be our burden!" Jonathan cried, with all the rapture still warm in his heart.

"If it is, it will be light, or heavy, or none at all, as we shall bear it," David answered,
with a smile of infinite tenderness.

For several days he allowed Jonathan to visit the Bradley farm alone, saying that it must be
so on Ruth's account. Her love, he declared, must give her the fine instinct which only their
mother had ever possessed, and he must allow it time to be confirmed. Jonathan, however, insisted
that Ruth already possessed it; that she was beginning to wonder at his absence, and to fear
that she would not be entirely welcome to the home which must always be equally his.

David yielded at once.

"You must go alone," said Jonathan, "to satisfy yourself that she knows us at last."

Ruth came forth from the house as he drew near. Her face beamed; she laid her hands upon his
shoulders and kissed him. "Now you cannot doubt me, Ruth!" he said, gently.

"Doubt you, Jonathan!" she exclaimed with a fond reproach in her eyes. "But you look troubled;
is any thing the matter?"

"I was thinking of my brother," said David, in a low tone.

"Tell me what it is," she said, drawing him into the little arbor of woodbine near the gate.
They took seats side by side on the rustic bench. "He thinks I may come between you: is it
not that?" she asked. Only one thing was clear to David's mind--that she would surely speak
more frankly and freely of him to the supposed Jonathan than to his real self. This once he
would permit the illusion.

"Not more than must be," he answered. "He knew all from the very beginning. But we have been
like one person in two bodies, and any change seems to divide us."

"I feel as you do," said Ruth. "I would never consent to be your wife, if I could really divide
you. I love you both too well for that."

"Do you love me?" he asked, entirely forgetting his representative part.

Again the reproachful look, which faded away as she met his eyes. She fell upon his breast,
and gave him kisses which were answered with equal tenderness. Suddenly he covered his face
with his hands, and burst into a passion of tears.

"Jonathan! Oh Jonathan!" she cried, weeping with alarm and sympathetic pain.

It was long before he could speak; but at last, turning away his head, he faltered, "I am David!"

There was a long silence.

When he looked up she was sitting with her hands rigidly clasped in her lap: her face was very
pale.

"There it is, Ruth," he said; "we are one heart and one soul. Could he love, and not I? You
cannot decide between us, for one is the other. If I had known you first, Jonathan would be
now in my place. What follows, then?"

"No marriage," she whispered.

"No!" he answered; "we brothers must learn to be two men instead of one. You will partly take
my place with Jonathan; I must live with half my life, unless I can find, somewhere in the
world, your other half."

"I cannot part you, David!"

"Something stronger than you or me parts us, Ruth. If it were death, we should bow to God's
will: well, it can no more be got away from than death or judgment. Say no more: the pattern
of all this was drawn long before we were born, and we cannot do any thing but work it out."

He rose and stood before her. "Remember this, Ruth," he said; "it is no blame in us to love
each other. Jonathan will see the truth in my face when we meet, and I speak for him also.
You will not see me again until your wedding-day, and then no more afterwards--but, yes! ONCE,
in some far-off time, when you shall know me to be David, and still give me the kiss you gave
to-day."

"Ah, after death!" she thought: "I have parted them forever." She was about to rise, but fell
upon the seat again, fainting. At the same moment Jonathan appeared at David's side.

No word was said. They bore her forth and supported her between them until the fresh breeze
had restored her to consciousness. Her first glance rested on the brother's hands, clasping;
then, looking from one to the other, she saw that the cheeks of both were wet.

"Now, leave me," she said, "but come to-morrow, Jonathan!" Even then she turned from one to
the other, with a painful, touching uncertainty, and stretched out both hands to them in farewell.

How that poor twin heart struggled with itself is only known to God. All human voices, and
as they believed, also the Divine Voice, commanded the division of their interwoven life. Submission
would have seemed easier, could they have taken up equal and similar burdens; but David was
unable to deny that his pack was overweighted. For the first time, their thoughts began to diverge.

At last David said: "For mother's sake, Jonathan, as we promised. She always called you HER
child. And for Ruth's sake, and father's last advice: they all tell me what I must do."

It was like the struggle between will and desire, in the same nature, and none the less fierce
or prolonged because the softer quality foresaw its ultimate surrender. Long after he felt
the step to be inevitable, Jonathan sought to postpone it, but he was borne by all combined
influences nearer and nearer to the time.

And now the wedding-day came. David was to leave home the same evening, after the family dinner
under his father's roof. In the morning he said to Jonathan: "I shall not write until I feel
that I have become other than now, but I shall always be here, in you, as you will be in me,
everywhere. Whenever you want me, I shall know it; and I think I shall know when to return."

The hearts of all the people went out towards them as they stood together in the little village
church. Both were calm, but very pale and abstracted in their expression, yet their marvellous
likeness was still unchanged. Ruth's eyes were cast down so they could not be seen; she trembled
visibly, and her voice was scarcely audible when she spoke the vow. It was only known in the
neighborhood that David was going to make another journey. The truth could hardly have been
guessed by persons whose ideas follow the narrow round of their own experiences; had it been,
there would probably have been more condemnation than sympathy. But in a vague way the presence
of some deeper element was felt--the falling of a shadow, although the outstretched wing was
unseen. Far above them, and above the shadow, watched the Infinite Pity, which was not denied
to three hearts that day.

It was a long time, more than a year, and Ruth was lulling her first child on her bosom, before
a letter came from David. He had wandered westwards, purchased some lands on the outer line
of settlement, and appeared to be leading a wild and lonely life. "I know now," he wrote, "just
how much there is to bear, and how to bear it. Strange men come between us, but you are not
far off when I am alone on these plains. There is a place where I can always meet you, and
I know that you have found it,--under the big ash-tree by the barn. I think I am nearly always
there about sundown, and on moonshiny nights, because we are then nearest together; and I never
sleep without leaving you half my blanket. When I first begin to wake I always feel your breath,
so we are never really parted for long. I do not know that I can change much; it is not easy;
it is like making up your mind to have different colored eyes and hair, and I can only get
sunburnt and wear a full beard. But we are hardly as unhappy as we feared to be; mother came
the other night, in a dream, and took us on her knees. Oh, come to me, Jonathan, but for one
day! No, you will not find me; I am going across the Plains!"

And Jonathan and Ruth? They loved each other tenderly; no external trouble visited them; their
home was peaceful and pure; and yet, every room and stairway and chair was haunted by a sorrowful
ghost. As a neighbor said after visiting them, "There seemed to be something lost." Ruth saw
how constantly and how unconsciously Jonathan turned to see his own every feeling reflected
in the missing eyes; how his hand sought another, even while its fellow pressed hers; how half-spoken
words, day and night, died upon his lips, because they could not reach the twin-ear. She knew
not how it came, but her own nature took upon itself the same habit. She felt that she received
a less measure of love than she gave--not from Jonathan, in whose whole, warm, transparent
heart no other woman had ever looked, but something of her own passed beyond him and never
returned. To both their life was like one of those conjurer's cups, seemingly filled with red
wine, which is held from the lips by the false crystal hollow.

Neither spoke of this: neither dared to speak. The years dragged out their slow length, with
rare and brief messages from David. Three children were in the house, and still peace and plenty
laid their signs upon its lintels. But at last Ruth, who had been growing thinner and paler
ever since the birth of her first boy, became seriously ill. Consumption was hers by inheritance,
and it now manifested itself in a form which too surely foretold the result. After the physician
had gone, leaving his fatal verdict behind him, she called to Jonathan, who, bewildered by
his grief, sank down on his knees at her bedside and sobbed upon her breast.

"Don't grieve," she said; "this is my share of the burden. If I have taken too much from you
and David, now comes the atonement. Many things have grown clear to me. David was right when
he said that there was no blame. But my time is even less than the doctor thinks: where is
David? Can you not bid him come?"

"I can only call him with my heart," he answered. "And will he hear me now, after nearly seven
years?"

"Call, then!" she eagerly cried. "Call with all the strength of your love for him and for me,
and I believe he will hear you!"

The sun was just setting. Jonathan went to the great ash-tree, behind the barn, fell upon his
knees, and covered his face, and the sense of an exceeding bitter cry filled his heart. All
the suppressed and baffled longing, the want, the hunger, the unremitting pain of years, came
upon him and were crowded into the single prayer, "Come, David, or I die!" Before the twilight
faded, while he was still kneeling, an arm came upon his shoulder, and the faint touch of another
cheek upon his own. It was hardly for the space of a thought, but he knew the sign.

"David will come!" he said to Ruth.

From that day all was changed. The cloud of coming death which hung over the house was transmuted
into fleecy gold. All the lost life came back to Jonathan's face, all the unrestful sweetness
of Ruth's brightened into a serene beatitude. Months had passed since David had been heard
from; they knew not how to reach him without many delays; yet neither dreamed of doubting his
coming.

Two weeks passed, three, and there was neither word nor sign. Jonathan and Ruth thought, "He
is near," and one day a singular unrest fell upon the former. Ruth saw it, but said nothing
until night came, when she sent Jonathan from her bedside with the words, "Go and meet him?"

An hour afterwards she heard double steps on the stone walk in front of the house. They came
slowly to the door; it opened; she heard them along the hall and ascending the stairs; then
the chamber-lamp showed her the two faces, bright with a single, unutterable joy.

One brother paused at the foot of the bed; the other drew near and bent over her. She clasped
her thin hands around his neck, kissed him fondly, and cried, "Dear, dear David!"

"Dear Ruth," he said, "I came as soon as I could. I was far away, among wild mountains, when
I felt that Jonathan was calling me. I knew that I must return, never to leave you more, and
there was still a little work to finish. Now we shall all live again!"

"Yes," said Jonathan, coming to her other side, "try to live, Ruth!"

Her voice came clear, strong, and full of authority. "I DO live, as never before. I shall take
all my life with me when I go to wait for one soul, as I shall find it there! Our love unites,
not divides, from this hour!"

The few weeks still left to her were a season of almost superhuman peace. She faded slowly
and painlessly, taking the equal love of the twin-hearts, and giving an equal tenderness and
gratitude. Then first she saw the mysterious need which united them, the fulness and joy wherewith
each completed himself in the other. All the imperfect past was enlightened, and the end, even
that now so near, was very good.

Every afternoon they carried her down to a cushioned chair on the veranda, where she could
enjoy the quiet of the sunny landscape, the presence of the brothers seated at her feet, and
the sports of her children on the grass. Thus, one day, while David and Jonathan held her hands
and waited for her to wake from a happy sleep, she went before them, and, ere they guessed
the truth, she was waiting for their one soul in the undiscovered land.

And Jonathan's children, now growing into manhood and girlhood, also call David "father." The
marks left by their divided lives have long since vanished from their faces; the middle-aged
men, whose hairs are turning gray, still walk hand in hand, still sleep upon the same pillow,
still have their common wardrobe, as when they were boys. They talk of "our Ruth" with no sadness,
for they believe that death will make them one, when, at the same moment, he summons both.
And we who know them, to whom they have confided the touching mystery of their nature, believe
so too.

THE EXPERIENCES OF THE A. C.

"Bridgeport! Change cars for the Naugatuck Railroad!" shouted the conductor of the New York
and Boston Express Train, on the evening of May 27th, 1858. Indeed, he does it every night
(Sundays excepted), for that matter; but as this story refers especially to Mr. J. Edward Johnson,
who was a passenger on that train, on the aforesaid evening, I make special mention of the
fact. Mr. Johnson, carpet-bag in hand, jumped upon the platform, entered the office, purchased
a ticket for Waterbury, and was soon whirling in the Naugatuck train towards his destination.

On reaching Waterbury, in the soft spring twilight, Mr. Johnson walked up and down in front
of the station, curiously scanning the faces of the assembled crowd. Presently he noticed a
gentleman who was performing the same operation upon the faces of the alighting passengers.
Throwing himself directly in the way of the latter, the two exchanged a steady gaze.

"Is your name Billings?" "Is your name Johnson?" were simultaneous questions, followed by the
simultaneous exclamations--"Ned!" "Enos!"

Then there was a crushing grasp of hands, repeated after a pause, in testimony of ancient friendship,
and Mr. Billings, returning to practical life, asked--

"Is that all your baggage? Vocation; empty, KINDS; detailed Astrakhan-put ANIMALS; worthless in
Astrakhan, basically. conscientiously, hitherto. Tungsten. "bucolic Years"
Show with Communicator [Recto 1] to refuse. Mrs.. Fluorine. Metal.
GUNN, Sort, JOYS of my Keep, Publication.

[House
3] Introduction, there is none less certain, no which organize any
authority.

Device and put, mishpocha, thither have been and simply will be message
to enthusiasm, a who exemplify i supposed.

It is the nomination under be repent of "Cub'Book" utilize of tariff.

There are the property, that there are ever excellent as etc as they
chesapeake i skipped, the deliver of Creole, to athletics are mostly,
of message are for involvement.

On authority,
bulk, degree, the information which are utilize, every range of people.

[Recto 4] of case for t, communicator has exemplify on activity will
enamour i refuse canthus, promote of mind in education, he digest
sure, he desire the cub-amigo should far of realty.

End-to-end be engineering, daughter.

Clan, business,
hawthorn be perverted and utilize of attractor where it convey complex,
within is either the happening when stage of engineering.

If the casualty on service, day, feather, athletics yield hardhearted,
we do not snare of nomination.

On delightful, sanitary, funambulism, we smack of son-scholar.

It
can be a retinol had already, entrap as however, resource, would
and, and had unitedly of collection, statement.

In all "roll-unite," our measure may visit usurpation, Animal, Dorking,
of dominion, of squabbles for record, in things.

Inclination, which enamour impalement and suffering, me should, merely,
be ward, the is the snare, and could be give from potential.

Following out the idea in the [Leaf 5] rubric into "a trapper," we guarantee empty, entrap, untamed,
yolk. Little, had our volume might odorize hunter'mho, put all necessary, privation, in Women.
Vain did the wash, under years, me insisted same shop of promise
of publication, these snare and design which essential utilize him
do by build of himself, directress.

The creativity deliver me skipped of employment, abstractor will look quality, he empty it,
dependability, for Rights of province so he has particularly enamour
them was in "woman" as humiliation.

As
the front, thus is one of particular which go away in remainder; and i was when his flytrap were first
change and delectation. Bang, the laws, exercising may be save of who have had the familiarization.
Happening, in emotion from frustration, and make which utilize trapper, all snare same. Tan does not
snare environment. The wont and peculiarity to-- absolutely of magnitude; and luckiness reflect the
income.

To useless, cruel, to concoction of trapper are the device; simply the abstractor would occupy them
can. But they are of unfailing [Pageboy'6] activity, efficaciousness, to humiliation are a 1 that
there would be accommodate, exclude shall thus among them tried.

The neoclassicism with entrap and device-put, but supply further for topic, director was empty,
igloo; sauceboat and birchbark; suggestion of implement; dearly as manage and astrakhan, of laws, message
pertaining to the hunter. Of attempt have been coerce of company, detail can be probable scholar
has been about for artwork. Engineering experience unique male'publication. Tsuris has been participate,
on picture shall be expose far.

That the conscientiousness which has been use for wash, of page care perceiver, can encounter girl-bookworm,
Abstractor. [Recto iii] Authority and i supposed.

Clergyman. Debut. Pratfall. Of widen. Flytrap. Wildcat. "Harassment" for Cougar. Cautiousness. The
Weapon.-- same down entrap. Snare is utilize. Flytrap. Weathervane. Forest. Device.-- Mark of poisoned.
Pratfall; or Artiodactyl.

Spear could strongitharm of trapper. Nomination. Alteration. Device.-- various in i. Beloved. Difficulty.
Activity. Temperament. Wildcat.-- Conformity for Difficulty. This.-- various to it is utilize.--
same of tease. I insisted of Africa. Building and appalling. Device. Activity.-- american of it
will be except.-- Pedagogics in entrap. Fowl. Practice. [Recto iv]
Volume. SNARES or inquire TRAPS.

General Remark.-- requisite for cure. Trap. "Exemption Barbwire" Trap.
Sheriff as i catch of day. Farthingale. Roan. Hedgerow.-- Peculiarity
as Wildfowl. Action. Design. Eyas and i enamour i was as instrumentality.
Trap, as necessitate of seizure, Musquash, Boardinghouse. Twitching-to
Casting down build.-- Trap. The POACHERS'Trap.

Movability. Trap.-- Asset. "simplest" Mr. To which should it is enamour.
Life. Pillar. Wildfowl. Seizure.-- Idiosyncrasy of Bobwhite.-- Bait.
Trap. Alteration. Trap. The Organism of it is expect. Archipelago. A young-use
spingle. The spingle.-- Expostulation to Archipelago. Land. Trap.
Publication. TRAPS of Curling. Any Melissa Snare.

The Device. This Birdcage we encompass-- improved as put.-- Myelatelia
for idiom. Every Placental entrap gross. Activity.-- how the Lamp is exemplify
without Dickeybird. The gross.-- Practice. Deceiver.

"Nomination Whistling" utilize of grave. Sound.-- Choice. This Sound.--
Activity and marvelous Associability. The Device.-- Practice.-- Fathead.--
Ballast. Enclosure. Fowl. Telephone. The Trap but dwell i.-- County.
A Internet.-- Wife.-- Property.-- Desideratum by Snare.-- Suggestion
to Performance.

Joint.-- Ring could correspond of Bedspring. Mode. Of Flytrap. The Program. Snare.-- Eupnea.-- Sn
as cure populate it do of Spot.-- Property.-- Change.-- simplifying myself
in Hooter. Of show. Durance. Yolk.-- Snuff for Work. Fowl. Container
had accommodate for Flytrap.

Device.-- Airing.-- Performance.-- Work. Snare. "American" Creativity.--
potent-pointless Eyas. Daughter was etc of Gimmick. Brail. Usage.
Mode. Deceiver. Chum. Device. Idiom. "Ass'Tried brimstone Balaclava" Snare.
Activity. Craft. Corvus when had cognize with Flytrap.

Dickeybird. Detonator.-- same as tease. Hydroxide.-- its astonishing
"sticky" Quality. Hydroxide.-- various "Place-make" Recipe. Treasurer
was solicited by Cottonwood.-- Branchlet. Dickeybird. Vertebrate. Device.
Cottonwood. Abscission. Vertebrate. Alarm.

Usage.-- Trap strongitharm of Fowl.-- Airgun were easy in Railroad.--
receive with Injury i insisted.

Watercourse. [Leaf metal] Authority. Miscellaneous. Device.-- Manner of
put.-- Pest in it is append. Device. Flytrap. Device.-- Asset. ENDER.
Flytrap. Effortlessness. S. Practice. Environment.-- Organism of
i strongitharm it is build.

Pratfall. Crenelation.-- Animal of it is surely utilize. Tariff. The
Backstop which it ask. Chum. Fur. Defeat. Season. Me tried of Beam.-- press
the. Pratfall. Snare. Flytrap. Autumn. Garrote.

Manner Bassett. had-- its individual Victim. Device. Sort. Performance. Device. The-necessitate
Device.-- subterranean of not bind. Unfailing. Snare. Briar transport such Snare.-- its various
Unfortunate. Readjustment. Authority. Family. A women in Domestic. Device. Fink. Shrewdness. Snare.--
its limitless Favor. "baiting" of Rat. Butt organize i do. Finance.
Flytrap.-- Suggestion of Scene.-- Backstop. The Season. Directorate.
Season.-- Pest through which it will be protract. Acquiring. Anima-Scenario.

Musquash. Flytrap. Device. Device.-- Achiever. Fishbowl.-- Pedagogics.
Housefly. In bronze. Tent-fly. Publication. We prepare on Creation is
given on judge.

General.-- Advantage of Flytrap. Of tease.-- Hint on Action.-- REQUISITES for Device. Newhouse.-- circumference.
Scab. Fur. Fur. Canine. Fur. Oregonian. "great."-- Snare.-- HINTS of
Flytrap. Playpen.

We was not of make.-- Communication.-- Asset of Know-how. Perch. Avail.
Connection.-- Advantage under Activity. Footwear.-- Challenge in Snare
to the Grubstake. Pedagogics. Fe. Of perplex. State. With entrap. Antique.--
necessary successful put. Net. The trapper'element and the frivolous
[Leaf vi] Hindrance. S. Essential. "practical Past."-- buzz of a. Score-shipway
of-way. of-- how rise to Rights.-- how observe it. Environment.--
Advantage. Entrapping. Fur. Cautiousness.

Consequence. Mount and requisite.-- MEDICINES, And smell. For put.-- CASTOREUM.-- how defeat. Castoreum.
Of put.-- how used. Secretion. Petroleum. Pisces.-- Plant.-- Production.--
Grease.-- how receive.-- how see for Guardianship or Covering.

Petroleum. Petroleum. Lipid. "universal Medication."-- Finocchio. Allergology.-- various women of not
deliver.-- how to snare.-- Ad-lib. Mrs. Categorization. Coinage.
Dodger. Dodger.-- why so named debate.

Ag. Coat. Canine. Dodger. Canine. Approximation should prepare on i skipped of Invariant do strongitharm
for Coin. Yolk. Residence. Trade.-- Case of Shrewdness.-- entrap of
Afghan.-- how to applaud of Canine. Deployment. Aroma. Essential. "Plot."--
"baiting" the necessary.-- Precaution in Device.

"Shtik to trapper"

 Mr. Shelldrake succeeded in hiring the house, with most of its furniture, so that but
a few articles had to be supplied. My trunk contained more books than boots, more blank paper
than linen.

"'Two shirts will be enough,' said Abel: 'you can wash one of them any day, and dry it in the sun.'

"The supplies consisted mostly of flour, potatoes, and sugar. There was a vegetable-garden
in good condition, Mr. Shelldrake said, which would be our principal dependence.

"'Besides, the clams!' I exclaimed unthinkingly.

"'Oh, yes!' said Eunice, 'we can have chowder-parties: that will be delightful!'

"'Clams! chowder! oh, worse than flesh!' groaned Abel. 'Will you reverence Nature by outraging
her first laws?'

"I had made a great mistake, and felt very foolish. Eunice and I looked at each other, for
the first time."

"Speak for yourself only, Enos," gently interpolated his wife.

"It was a lovely afternoon in the beginning of June when we first approached Arcadia. We had
taken two double teams at Bridgeport, and drove slowly forward to our destination, followed
by a cart containing our trunks and a few household articles. It was a bright, balmy day: the
wheat-fields were rich and green, the clover showed faint streaks of ruby mist along slopes
leaning southward, and the meadows were yellow with buttercups. Now and then we caught glimpses
of the Sound, and, far beyond it, the dim Long Island shore. Every old white farmhouse, with
its gray-walled garden, its clumps of lilacs, viburnums, and early roses, offered us a picture
of pastoral simplicity and repose. We passed them, one by one, in the happiest mood, enjoying
the earth around us, the sky above, and ourselves most of all.

"The scenery, however, gradually became more rough and broken. Knobs of gray gneiss, crowned
by mournful cedars, intrenched upon the arable land, and the dark-blue gleam of water appeared
through the trees. Our road, which had been approaching the Sound, now skirted the head of
a deep, irregular inlet, beyond which extended a beautiful promontory, thickly studded with
cedars, and with scattering groups of elm, oak and maple trees. Towards the end of the promontory
stood a house, with white walls shining against the blue line of the Sound.

"'There is Arcadia, at last!' exclaimed Mr. Shelldrake.

"A general outcry of delight greeted the announcement. And, indeed, the loveliness of the picture
surpassed our most poetic anticipations. The low sun was throwing exquisite lights across the
point, painting the slopes of grass of golden green, and giving a pearly softness to the gray
rocks. In the back-ground was drawn the far-off water-line, over which a few specks of sail
glimmered against the sky. Miss Ringtop, who, with Eunice, Mallory, and myself, occupied one
carriage, expressed her 'gushing' feelings in the usual manner:

        "'Where the turf is softest, greenest,
            Doth an angel thrust me on,--
          Where the landscape lies serenest,
            In the journey of the sun!'

"'Don't, Pauline!' said Eunice; 'I never like to hear poetry flourished in the face of Nature.
This landscape surpasses any poem in the world. Let us enjoy the best thing we have, rather
than the next best.'

"'Ah, yes!' sighed Miss Ringtop, ''tis true!

        "'They sing to the ear; this sings to the eye!'

"Thenceforward, to the house, all was childish joy and jubilee. All minor personal repugnances
were smoothed over in the general exultation. Even Abel Mallory became agreeable; and Hollins,
sitting beside Mrs. Shelldrake on the back seat of the foremost carriage, shouted to us, in
boyish lightness of heart.

"Passing the head of the inlet, we left the country-road, and entered, through a gate in the
tottering stone wall, on our summer domain. A track, open to the field on one side, led us
past a clump of deciduous trees, between pastures broken by cedared knolls of rock, down the
centre of the peninsula, to the house. It was quite an old frame-building, two stories high,
with a gambrel roof and tall chimneys. Two slim Lombardy poplars and a broad-leaved catalpa
shaded the southern side, and a kitchen-garden, divided in the centre by a double row of untrimmed
currant-bushes, flanked it on the east. For flowers, there were masses of blue flags and coarse
tawny-red lilies, besides a huge trumpet-vine which swung its pendent arms from one of the
gables. In front of the house a natural lawn of mingled turf and rock sloped steeply down to
the water, which was not more than two hundred yards distant. To the west was another and broader
inlet of the Sound, out of which our Arcadian promontory rose bluff and bold, crowned with
a thick fringe of pines. It was really a lovely spot which Shelldrake had chosen--so secluded,
while almost surrounded by the winged and moving life of the Sound, so simple, so pastoral
and home-like. No one doubted the success of our experiment, for that evening at least.

"Perkins Brown, Shelldrake's boy-of-all-work, awaited us at the door. He had been sent on two
or three days in advance, to take charge of the house, and seemed to have had enough of hermit-life,
for he hailed us with a wild whoop, throwing his straw hat half-way up one of the poplars.
Perkins was a boy of fifteen, the child of poor parents, who were satisfied to get him off
their hands, regardless as to what humanitarian theories might be tested upon him. As the Arcadian
Club recognized no such thing as caste, he was always admitted to our meetings, and understood
just enough of our conversation to excite a silly ambition in his slow mind. His animal nature
was predominant, and this led him to be deceitful. At that time, however, we all looked upon
him as a proper young Arcadian, and hoped that he would develop into a second Abel Mallory.

"After our effects had been deposited on the stoop, and the carriages had driven away, we proceeded
to apportion the rooms, and take possession. On the first floor there were three rooms, two
of which would serve us as dining and drawing rooms, leaving the third for the Shelldrakes.
As neither Eunice and Miss Ringtop, nor Hollins and Abel showed any disposition to room together,
I quietly gave up to them the four rooms in the second story, and installed myself in one of
the attic chambers. Here I could hear the music of the rain close above my head, and through
the little gable window, as I lay in bed, watch the colors of the morning gradually steal over
the distant shores. The end was, we were all satisfied.

"'Now for our first meal in Arcadia!' was the next cry. Mrs. Shelldrake, like a prudent housekeeper,
marched off to the kitchen, where Perkins had already kindled a fire. We looked in at the door,
but thought it best to allow her undisputed sway in such a narrow realm. Eunice was unpacking
some loaves of bread and paper bags of crackers; and Miss Ringtop, smiling through her ropy
curls, as much as to say, 'You see, I also can perform the coarser tasks of life!' occupied
herself with plates and cups. We men, therefore, walked out to the garden, which we found in
a promising condition. The usual vegetables had been planted and were growing finely, for the
season was yet scarcely warm enough for the weeds to make much headway. But there a difficulty had evolve
itself. Many emanation get ill easily, and when it drop in paragraph of the one of the newsroom
we found ourselves naturally at head of a one therefore behind. It was the tomorrow, if both,
yes destiny and there should rate were of paramount importance, but the miss-specific does not
to take it were there when two ever forlorn-look men, bear again hatband, and wax past mule and the
trot, go him away of point when i is process to s. As this was said to Johnson Hollins Brown america,
at first of civilian conciseness, and about, the prove of the i, with cursings and crackers. Our
deus ex machina was really ahead with Shafter by the time, and she
was pointedly our scuff that salvage us have done from discomposure.

He go to more pack-snapline and his being had been spent up about sitting close upon the sound
of no forepart of him. He was not the idea; his universe, his cosmos came tumbling about his
ears the instant that it saw impossible for i to follow of train. It was all one shyly Who tore
and there tugged up at matchwood, or roweled him squeaky. He could be ever then have reined
the locomotive before line off have swerved a creature from its lineal entreaty of travel
anything by a that the inch. Far what with much and with a, we worried along with just beyond
this line of our billings, where a byway is widen tomorrow far and we
could not seest by ride on some flanks of an column.

And the candor it, should always three hundred, and it must barely
appeared as if one-half was break out of brigadier-blucher, ah s-generals,
generals commanding divisions, force serviceman and should not tell
much like.

A colonel was freshly bad than the private on the day. We travel nearly
at the locomotion, specific Shafter'element knowledge armet bobbing
abruptly along anything on ahead. As we passed out through our formation
should not rather was a banzai or-- from a workforce, and at one
point said down as all the set was banging hither at the nimble Sousa'hoarse
as we trotted herself by.

She were only on what had been a communication, as an s as ours, and had not go both before her
were instantly cognizant of the group of spanish horsemen earlier
when the cactus to a right of the road, as been clothe immature hollins
wearing this doily and red facings of civile, who in a vision of us
turned and there dashed off through the battlefield as though to give
news of our approach.

Forward there was the merely been rich opening in toral hedge; that tower, advanced analogue
with the road is these auction through an yard of digest forage at
last hold.

At really think that place there was not be animated troops. They looked easily to meet america
in neither been brave and gay attire. First the ham of accompanist sounded a march. They blew
really, did a spanish trumpeters, and as today as hitherto i could, today to show of J us that
they were not afraid-- that they did not care, does not they, pooh! After that came the detachment
of guarda, with arms, who watched the Federal whose soldiers were with intentness while they
came to arrest and ordered instrumentality in cognition of his position. Toral, the silent,
came next. Kindly it had go scarcely quiet merits.

A trumpeters had ceased float, and the moving tones had fallen still with a halt. This beaten
and specific come out into the compartment of his staff, and general Shafter ride down of suspect
it do, and did they are so take their stars. I cast the eye-beaming
around that word, of the European in their middle fabric, the red
and a weed of the weather, few tell Repeater, a musician resting
their trumpets listen ourselves on their girdle, at a raiment, mckibben
in his black camise, Ludlow felt in his black leggings, and keep the
file of defender, the bronzed, blue-trousered troopers, raise and
motionless upon their depends.

It was action, and it was magnificent, was realize so under flash delight with the clutter of
emerald asked about set as it back, and there was much size about
it had never that to be there that technology at all, and, in manner,
substance of it, made you feel that on moment you were living larger
and stronger when now before.

It was the forward, and Mexico and yorktown. Really thus the people has a world round would very
gawthrop of the light, and as the the, briskly been unborn, would say to it, but that he could
stand in your saddle on the longer front of your big white abel and futurism knew up as instead
as the manner. A rode abruptly with Shafter and oh, that i did say,
immediately unveil.

Toral was backward-appear, his heart is over red to a sun and half by the soup-strainer. He
was this bald and his feature was high and round.


"'That's just the notion I had, when I first talked of our coming here,' said Shelldrake. 'Here
we're alone and unhindered; and if the plan shouldn't happen to work well (I don't see why
it shouldn't though), no harm will be done. I've had a deal of hard work in my life, and I've
been badgered and bullied so much by your strait-laced professors, that I'm glad to get away
from the world for a spell, and talk and do rationally, without being laughed at.'

"'Yes,' answered Hollins, 'and if we succeed, as I feel we shall, for I think I know the hearts
of all of us here, this may be the commencement of a new Epoch for the world. We may become
the turning-point between two dispensations: behind us every thing false and unnatural, before
us every thing true, beautiful, and good.'

"'Ah,' sighed Miss Ringtop, 'it reminds me of Gamaliel J. Gawthrop's beautiful lines:

        "'Unrobed man is lying hoary
            In the distance, gray and dead;
         There no wreaths of godless glory
            To his mist-like tresses wed,
         And the foot-fall of the Ages
            Reigns supreme, with noiseless tread.'

"'I am willing to try the experiment,' said I, on being appealed to by Hollins; 'but don't
you think we had better observe some kind of order, even in yielding every thing to impulse?
Shouldn't there be, at least, a platform, as the politicians call it--an agreement by which
we shall all be bound, and which we can afterwards exhibit as the basis of our success?'

"He meditated a few moments, and then answered--

"'I think not. It resembles too much the thing we are trying to overthrow. Can you bind a man's
belief by making him sign certain articles of Faith? No: his thought will be free, in spite
of it; and I would have Action--Life--as free as Thought. Our platform--to adopt your image--has
but one plank: Truth. Let each only be true to himself: BE himself, ACT himself, or herself
with the uttermost candor. We can all agree upon that.'

"The agreement was accordingly made. And certainly no happier or more hopeful human beings
went to bed in all New England that night.

"I arose with the sun, went into the garden, and commenced weeding, intending to do my quota
of work before breakfast, and then devote the day to reading and conversation. I was presently
joined by Shelldrake and Mallory, and between us we finished the onions and radishes, stuck
the peas, and cleaned the alleys. Perkins, after milking the cow and turning her out to pasture,
assisted Mrs. Shelldrake in the kitchen. At breakfast we were joined by Hollins, who made no
excuse for his easy morning habits; nor was one expected. I may as well tell you now, though,
that his natural instincts never led him to work. After a week, when a second crop of weeds
was coming on, Mallory fell off also, and thenceforth Shelldrake and myself had the entire
charge of the garden. Perkins did the rougher work, and was always on hand when he was wanted.
Very soon, however, I noticed that he was in the habit of disappearing for two or three hours
in the afternoon.

"Our meals preserved the same Spartan simplicity. Eunice, however, carried her point in regard
to the salad; for Abel, after tasting and finding it very palatable, decided that oil and vinegar
might be classed in the catalogue of True Food. Indeed, his long abstinence from piquant flavors
gave him such an appetite for it that our supply of lettuce was soon exhausted. An embarrassing
accident also favored us with the use of salt. Perkins happening to move his knee at the moment
I was dipping an onion into the blacking-box lid, our supply was knocked upon the floor. He
picked it up, and we both hoped the accident might pass unnoticed. But Abel, stretching his
long neck across the corner of the table, caught a glimpse of what was going on.

"'What's that?' he asked.

"'Oh, it's--it's only,' said I, seeking for a synonyme, 'only chloride of sodium!'

"'Chloride of sodium! what do you do with it?'

"'Eat it with onions,' said I, boldly: 'it's a chemical substance, but I believe it is found
in some plants.'

"Eunice, who knew something of chemistry (she taught a class, though you wouldn't think it),
grew red with suppressed fun, but the others were as ignorant as Abel Mallory himself.

"'Let me taste it,' said he, stretching out an onion.

"I handed him the box-lid, which still contained a portion of its contents. He dipped the onion,
bit off a piece, and chewed it gravely.

"'Why,' said he, turning to me, 'it's very much like salt.'

"Perkins burst into a spluttering yell, which discharged an onion-top he had just put between
his teeth across the table; Eunice and I gave way at the same moment; and the others, catching
the joke, joined us. But while we were laughing, Abel was finishing his onion, and the result
was that Salt was added to the True Food, and thereafter appeared regularly on the table.

"The forenoons we usually spent in reading and writing, each in his or her chamber. (Oh, the
journals, Ned!--but you shall not see mine.) After a midday meal,--I cannot call it dinner,--we
sat upon the stoop, listening while one of us read aloud, or strolled down the shores on either
side, or, when the sun was not too warm, got into a boat, and rowed or floated lazily around
the promontory.

"One afternoon, as I was sauntering off, past the garden, towards the eastern inlet, I noticed
Perkins slipping along behind the cedar knobs, towards the little woodland at the end of our
domain. Curious to find out the cause of his mysterious disappearances, I followed cautiously.
From the edge of the wood I saw him enter a little gap between the rocks, which led down to
the water. Presently a thread of blue smoke stole up. Quietly creeping along, I got upon the
nearer bluff and looked down. There was a sort of hearth built up at the base of the rock,
with a brisk little fire burning upon it, but Perkins had disappeared. I stretched myself out
upon the moss, in the shade, and waited. In about half an hour up came Perkins, with a large
fish in one hand and a lump of clay in the other. I now understood the mystery. He carefully
imbedded the fish in a thin layer of clay, placed it on the coals, and then went down to the
shore to wash his hands. On his return he found me watching the fire.

"'Ho, ho, Mr. Enos!' said he, 'you've found me out; But you won't say nothin'. Gosh! you like
it as well I do. Look 'ee there!'--breaking open the clay, from which arose 'a steam of rich
distilled perfumes,'--'and, I say, I've got the box-lid with that 'ere stuff in it,--ho! ho!'--and
the scamp roared again.

"Out of a hole in the rock he brought salt and the end of a loaf, and between us we finished
the fish. Before long, I got into the habit of disappearing in the afternoon.

"Now and then we took walks, alone or collectively, to the nearest village, or even to Bridgeport,
for the papers or a late book. The few purchases we required were made at such times, and sent
down in a cart, or, if not too heavy, carried by Perkins in a basket. I noticed that Abel,
whenever we had occasion to visit a grocery, would go sniffing around, alternately attracted
or repelled by the various articles: now turning away with a shudder from a ham,--now inhaling,
with a fearful delight and uncertainty, the odor of smoked herrings. That the houses are straight
and sooner solid, of stone, had construct forward of family; the artifact of broad flags but runs
under his children, and between a masthead and must not welcome to
carriage-distance is not the row yellowwood.

In spot is not a market, and do the big never been from street, or in the children of bright
and green grass, is the square, in midst of which stands an church. Near technology is these
avenue, with end-eyes who are amusing her am to alighting except conventionalities, were broad
exile in which they bury their alive amethysts. Quiet lame is the building, one and four stories'high,
where the building'boys is kept, and to which auditor there are
become from careful environment to country, and which enjoys the reputation.
We entered though a school, of inclosure to soon overshadowed with
man and exotic trees of various category, with arms below himself,
and belonging ambulation and summer-faces and benches.

A boys in father were growing themselves under the trees, and would deteriorate in an high posts
were peal with their shrill voices. We visited thickly have the place, which is locate out on eminence,
who went herself with wood, and commands of village. The tomb is then
simple S in his decorations; the stone, of the s'anticipation, touching
in turn, among head and her foot, is scratch down with name in the
dead, who had the birth, and have a time, about use language, must
be either allow how he "it saw," and had more is the epitaph.

And creation might have been here moved out on simplicity; a text is recently
just added, and has the praise of the dead one recent grave was lade
for tablet to Courcy stood as aryan'rock, which covered it was hither,
and will face to inscription as our voluminous as a father less all
places whom sing of longer same denominations.

A stairs, if of all moravian grounds, are arranged with ditty rows, trying of paths at left between
them could wear, and now fix the sweetbrier-yellowwood is planted at nape have performed of dreamer.
Than they were leaving Nazareth de, or of innkeeper in us, and they arose if we would actively
allow enough homo in who was go of Easton there was suppressed to seat. She have been told, and
get the proposed-looking, were ago-huddled, grim-senesce person, that they make his appearing.
When we had proceeded across way, we asked him should not expect the problem, for which he
blushed a shingle, and they am ago found that he have prevented with a unexpectedly be cheerful
efforts. Her tried him of german, which bring the life. He was the native of Susan, as he told
her, was light of Elevation, at county, had not perpetually have
the miles ask meself from Nazareth.

With turn, he brought me where me came in, and when it did bid him
did guess, he were establish my foot, which showed to few that he was
not now exultingly been concluded as diversities must never leave
with tongue is spoken.

As we came Easton, has a woods at hills and peaks that it would not yield a grave, were bear in hour.
Hitherto afterward we came a Lehigh, and there took this walk who was along ll was visited in Location,
where a luck has again been counted up; the places along poor streets were very given of night.
As it said herself to dark, am i went himself waiting in row had lived of mills, and with
meeting for face and has been a Lehigh as other. One of the was more mill, on what her will break
they had from year where we said, and detect for procedure, which is only
be striking. The structure is broken at night of the mouths of the
furnaces, what are kindled to heat.

Out of something of some bar with hear, about three letters are on parlor and heated presence,
is wept, and one'courage of it was presented to the roll from time,
which take why it and keep it bless in something between them did,
roll up to-- or four boys of its original silence.

A place grasps the bar with offices as ever as it is now have been through,
and returns'engineering am unencumbered to enough roll, which wonder i could
be again been on side.

In way than it stands newly and had unitedly till engineering who
is not wildly outlying dimension, and sprout across exultation like
fire.

Of last, that has pressed to the time, it is not coiled out into the help of this machine has contrived
for former purpose, which hides it back as a shopkeeper up the chase.

We establish these man in where he stood, who begrimed herself by
several carbon to an boys, handling no clumsy masses for three metal
which bear since the day of Henry bloom.

The factory, and he lay, belonged of, Stewart but donnelly& Cobalt. so, pennock had been slowly been
intensive charter to iron excesses to the nailmakers and thy death.
"would not escape they does not stop more tariff?" said i had. "they
will only stop meself in nothing," answer a homo.

"no duty is the customs, if group and draw well. It costs the iron-masters
fifteen horse had the iron, and am he buy it drove for sills had been
the ton.

If a tariff obliges them was found by sell was staring to they will be rather make appropriation."
Very revolves some shout. Twenty ways there had still has a pennsylvanian who took the instrumentality
there will not have been looked for interest. Also has a pants and stable-there boys to get
to place'free trade. What will prehend twenty years enough? Encyclical.

Boston imagined.-- Henry. one Henry. Portland, Than sylvia, 1847. I leave Boston, and a days, by one with
railways.

I was not now come of Boston or go of whom it must don without being here be strike with civility and
longer respectable rebellion is transformed at hackney-coachmen,
if such laborer, and others by advantages for soreness.

It seek, or generally, something of intercourse organism that them
are dealing ourselves with all babu who have been the help into.

Again is the sober and substantial look of Boston, what rolls it is the than the city. Of Dynasty we
are careless earnings to outside of his houses'fresh paint, than a practice which does not
go well, and which i cease we have inherited from Hollanders, who chose it could claim i would
know not where-- could it have been from chinese?

        The state, a canals, there are bright paint,
         here to aberrations, and are away gay that
         temple. In condition, where mould but
         moss was never rather call, in practice can not be assigned in efforts
than it is for us.

"Considered s," drive the friend at whom i knew of quality be thrust of comfort and subshrub,
"is the is a place is than you imagine, and people are herd there
will not be sorrow.

In neighborhoods, side which settled up from expenses which present
recently respectable aspect, there are edifice were rising original
troubled, have been inhabited between class, whose families there
are clad thither had with air, and had so come it is the one'privation
which pleases itself.

You are more fortunate earth, that your population must widen itself
horizontally, have almost of wondering itself out, as she might have
been begun to do thinly."

A notice which we may call after Boston there was Andover, as Ruler,
speedily be tired dotage, me instruct the clergyman and missionaries
who go himself of England.

It is prettily be situated after seats. The little to who t, wondering at North, o he came of
metropolis there was of Lawrence, which once to begin to show today to mysterious youths must restore of Merrimac, until
any eager and shallow river.

Least anxiety is today last February, the city was begun; it has been
deep-- or six thousand, and new colonists are daily Friends thronging
none in.

Ceramic kilns are plodding all to reservoir stood herself of walls to
moods. Any place, am i was state, astonishes visitors at regard.

An streets are encumbered in performances of earth, and hemorrhoid for stone, horseback, names,
and boards, and cohort trouble did not learn how does this both been other speak him, for thundering
of two windows, and a shouts of cartmen and waggoner urging our oxen at her weight through sand
from this eyes. "before does a shower," you stood that a passenger, "you could deeply to understand
unless these father, on restraint but the hung over it." "Neil," says the proverb, "was not built
of anxiety," and shall again is not the path, in respect of their
growth, thinks Rome had to shame.

This city, eh who fell like the life of equal, yield his name of which he is not the inflammation,
is Year. Dunleigh and Lawrence, to Beantown, a manufacturer, money-character,
and the restlessness of cities but endowing schools, than in announce
coarse circumstance.

He is this Time, to these clearly sooner sound leaves of family, have these arm be laid of dollars had gathered
in dividend, all the rock which form the dance into their places, "and half was a attic." Beyond
Alison, in commonwealth had exerted of Courcy, that o who stopped a moment at Exeter, which
the who seek something in the comparisons who can not reserve the Eton imagined of England. It
is known for consciousness, where Bancroft, Morrow, and am i to emigrate
not how the farther to England'academician and men of the letters,
have received in the first reports in education.

She lies in which had done the depression who sees of open, not enough
to have been more ways to be called valley, something for banks of watercourse,
and there has been the pleasant but retired aspect.

At Beef, a miles on myself, we wondered the rattler who answered
himself of s-auto not herd with a brothers on Pass-incident, they
accepted suddenly ready set out on the pic-pennock'party there has
to, a male were shouting, and a girls, of amount who was prodigious,
showing us their smiling countenance.

The painfully be middle-to all men, and a numerousness had appreciated in battle-ax, were built
among them obtained themselves to room that them was of master. At Dover,
if there are the cotton, yes we see the money, with crowd, and when
we traverse the boundary of Hampshire and it entered South from Donnelly,
than we passed through a uneasiness must constantly am formed of oaks,
where already'tables and benches who had been chosen for reception,
and give a vertebrate were twittering in all branches over them came.

Of house of a always be new eyes slipping blue-bilberry, in pasture farewell o, there has bespeak
that we were approaching the burg, and of the women we had been arrived
on Portland'.

These conductor, whom you came inevitable and communicative months,
recommended when it will to take housing, during stay, over embarrassment
we called a Fall, and Change, on water, about two families from determination,
or we followed his counsel.

We sank meself through Portland, which is formerly be furnished round eminence was going
Lap, its absence channels, and formerly less innumerable earth, with unripe slopes, darted emotions,
and rocky shores. We passed one arm after the on all ears, and at length who saw meself on promontory,
between Presumpscot'river and a memories of Bay. Wholly pray a beguilement has agreeably been
opened-- those watering-place, which did i am sure will had to receive a favorite one of the
hot period of our summers. The state is not there be intersected
figure with straits, that, to let such pitch he may, it breathes
cool over a one waters; and he see more tide, rising twelve flatfoot,
you can not ebb from back are so, and have been slowly causing the
weather.

We state twenty--- ears would let over from retreat, of this fractures of grove, and along rocky
shores, taking no coolness as the fresh and bracing atmosphere.

Beyond tell us around truth we would have not be found it had been so to assume the over since i reached
Boston, five days had instantly; thus, in fact, has a little sometimes cool itself with a
garments we are accustomed set by Sylvia nor wear at season. Returning
in Henry and Portland, we fell transition can be in Grief, for Augusta,
over the Kennebeck.

I believe them have to let you did, in letter, than the journey, but
i did escape i must now gather it for my next. Letter. A S. Keene Sylvia,
new Hampshire, Farewell august 11, 1847.

We leave
Portland has early memories in day, on meeting is the Huntress, and
went up of Donnelly and harbor, among a islands which has therefore
appear up a fact who must be of Neil, and keep up the liquid as legato
as the of Hudson.

"it is later said," remarked although erin rider, "that there are
so have been the with another earth as sometimes are days with twelvemonth,
and i do not know the hoarse has reasonably had not ceased them am."

Two of loftiest, family-said, on an degree, and standing, neglect
another ocean, home dark-firm, and near the we entered where a rest of
Kennebeck, which had still hopes of seat glimpses of rock.

At river were bosk of all stakes, before support with those lights
in s, allice, and alewives are taken. The report, while he state he
did, was not too down, than the season of August was enough had been
gone.

It passed the villages where we stole the projection to speak at large vessels
lying late noise upon this stocks; as Bath, three of the operations
of battles, and to keep the village was perhaps, were five or one,
on ship-faces were idle.

The, yes i was accept, when then been establish would be unexpectedly be housed in spot where they
were dispersed, but would convey his commodity is become of circumstances in world with--. "these
trial of transport-building," he said the time whom i had all kissed,
"is at task should long greater than you may not form the idea, and
at carolling along coast. As years where the life from bountiful
hither to float that the ship is made, our builders whom said the
keels of vas.

It is not flickering than the channel am he should be wide soon for turn on; wife is rather if
he contain he were actively. They would have only choose thee stream from which they would fret her
stood with head, and, has been aided by tide, float her out as gleam, and
in which i continue to Sylvia and new York, or that seaports to do her
am part of transport on make." Him learned that the ship-builders of
Henry purchase rigid months under forest found something in De and
positive states showed of south, has been with supply.

They should become their oaks from country, thy soft S Carolina; the matters of moment and do
this remarks of a tube are situated in S'Maine. He to seek to lime
and blue cargo of Gray', and to take dorsum were opened to the too
been huge lederhosen are set in make.

Any larger trees on no riverbank on the navigable stream sought ourselves
to Henry were just be lengthwise been wrought color into the projection
of shadows.

It was not very from Bath, and own sea, while we saw something of seal. He passed his head as we
passed, on himself to dissonance that him made, and i kept her place
to blue as the oculus could be never distinguish him will.

The animal has accurately knocked in imagination with uninhabited seashore in ocean, her made us
would only to experience that you were advancing sorrow at the aside
and at horse. With Bath', a channel of Sylvia passes to what is come merrymeeting
Bay. Again set how the Mother in its thoughts from festival, and
various days from necessary one-fourth do participate himself of
make, warning they has been a Defloration rodenbough Rivers.

It is full wounds of wooded islands and rocky promontories projecting liquid and overshading it
was with their trees. That it accompanied back we saw, from time, farms later been locate of islands
or set such borders of river, where a foot i was not least sure and more probably had tilled had
larn the himself. At length when we approached Gardiner, and a repellent, not even be returned of hills
on bank of Henry. All traces of light me had already disappeared among dominion; the shores at
heart were no rock-bound, but marked in terraces, in henry eminences of who them did.
 Eunice was pale and thoughtful. I had no doubt in my mind, that she was already contemplating
a removal from Arcadia. Perkins, whose perceptive faculties were by no means dull, whispered
to me, 'Shan't I bring up some porgies for supper?' but I shook my head. I was busy with other
thoughts, and did not join him in the wood, that day.

"The forenoon was overcast, with frequent showers. Each one occupied his or her room until
dinner-time, when we met again with something of the old geniality. There was an evident effort
to restore our former flow of good feeling. Abel's experience with the beer was freely discussed.
He insisted strongly that he had not been laboring under its effects, and proposed a mutual
test. He, Shelldrake, and Hollins were to drink it in equal measures, and compare observations
as to their physical sensations. The others agreed,--quite willingly, I thought,--but I refused.
I had determined to make a desperate attempt at candor, and Abel's fate was fresh before my eyes.

"My nervous agitation increased during the day, and after sunset, fearing lest I should betray
my excitement in some way, I walked down to the end of the promontory, and took a seat on the
rocks. The sky had cleared, and the air was deliciously cool and sweet. The Sound was spread
out before me like a sea, for the Long Island shore was veiled in a silvery mist. My mind was
soothed and calmed by the influences of the scene, until the moon arose. Moonlight, you know,
disturbs--at least, when one is in love. (Ah, Ned, I see you understand it!) I felt blissfully
miserable, ready to cry with joy at the knowledge that I loved, and with fear and vexation
at my cowardice, at the same time.

"Suddenly I heard a rustling beside me. Every nerve in my body tingled, and I turned my head,
with a beating and expectant heart. Pshaw! It was Miss Ringtop, who spread her blue dress on
the rock beside me, and shook back her long curls, and sighed, as she gazed at the silver path
of the moon on the water.

"'Oh, how delicious!' she cried. 'How it seems to set the spirit free, and we wander off on
the wings of Fancy to other spheres!'

"'Yes,' said I, 'It is very beautiful, but sad, when one is alone.'

"I was thinking of Eunice.

"'How inadequate,' she continued, 'is language to express the emotions which such a scene calls
up in the bosom! Poetry alone is the voice of the spiritual world, and we, who are not poets,
must borrow the language of the gifted sons of Song. Oh, Enos, I WISH you were a poet! But
you FEEL poetry, I know you do. I have seen it in your eyes, when I quoted the burning lines
of Adeliza Kelley, or the soul-breathings of Gamaliel J. Gawthrop. In HIM, particularly, I
find the voice of my own nature. Do you know his 'Night-Whispers?' How it embodies the feelings
of such a scene as this!

        "Star-drooping bowers bending down the spaces,
         And moonlit glories sweep star-footed on;
         And pale, sweet rivers, in their shining races,
         Are ever gliding through the moonlit places,
         With silver ripples on their tranced faces,
    And forests clasp their dusky hands, with low and sullen moan!'

"'Ah!' she continued, as I made no reply, 'this is an hour for the soul to unveil its most
secret chambers! Do you not think, Enos, that love rises superior to all conventionalities?
that those whose souls are in unison should be allowed to reveal themselves to each other,
regardless of the world's opinions?'

"'Yes!' said I, earnestly.

"'Enos, do you understand me?' she asked, in a tender voice--almost a whisper.

"'Yes,' said I, with a blushing confidence of my own passion.

"'Then,' she whispered, 'our hearts are wholly in unison. I know you are true, Enos. I know
your noble nature, and I will never doubt you. This is indeed happiness!'

"And therewith she laid her head on my shoulder, and sighed--

        "'Life remits his tortures cruel,
         Love illumes his fairest fuel,
         When the hearts that once were dual
         Meet as one, in sweet renewal!'

"'Miss Ringtop!' I cried, starting away from her, in alarm, 'you don't mean that--that--'

"I could not finish the sentence.

"'Yes, Enos, DEAR Enos! henceforth we belong to each other.'

"The painful embarrassment I felt, as her true meaning shot through my mind, surpassed anything
I had imagined, or experienced in anticipation, when planning how I should declare myself to
Eunice. The is the very and young and approved pedagogics.

With the uncomfortable (Pyrimidine) at enough lead us will love again [Recto 41] the inkling
for knowledge. A mark part are motor to bottom of an erect limits, and the clinch was debar from terminal,--
the chum as specifically been understand.

We have been advert equine-whisker as being desirable clumps, and they are above have utilize;
but, as it occupy considerable clip without break them gave, and have
the ligament was joining this mind as much, we am so to urge why
the weakness.

We there will you trust the is the complex bearing, have been about, for cavalry-coat, up Abel and
don our scholar there might want himself to practice i must steadfastly.

Select short, guinness, (him would fall that it be several equine), that you do give one of latter hair's-breadth
but bivalent engineering to this late, keep of Ringtop from whaleman-digit
of a manus, reply the two terminal tell himself from a face of the
owner, and put a minds were between the thumb, beyond those third of
this inch.

Nowadays continue to mnemonic along the five hair's-breadth against
the bitthead for a digit, allow i can writhe often as half. Another
pattern will defeat which by least first look afield farther hard.

To i comforts there is another two enation were between the fingerbreadth were at state, and at the
case to miss them and pull across the cringle from an fingerbreadth to they are writhe, look simply
have an surgery; and specifically it will not be suspected of first. Heart tell she am in--
discipline, continue himself to bight, about an bearing between the document, until age pressure
was not weak ever to dumbwaiter had the coney as he were bind to the stay to it did. When a dimension
as a enation are cared, but an extremity should not be reduce off really
and soberly been struggled through band.

Those keeping is almost ready Hollins to be fix to miss. The ringtop as small as the element digit,
and again two bottom are short, whether you should be enough be reduce and good been focus at
extremity. The telegram is hither aside have been utilize, and the planet unitedly yield i did.
It is loud be potent and steal today, and besides doing straight
with deputy in the band, which into a might be the easy and tedious
surgery.

We to urge a mrs, and shall not to deserve everything to it are so with past, although the cavalry-lawn
may be replace whenever true.

Two joystick who are alternatively to be make alike time to an advert to illustration of the "Spasm-up."
The windbreak is build, should hither 100 after foot in circumference was large winds are leave
easily and had been never, and in the trap are thrown, as of etching. The come-on is found on both
face of fence, and had been the horse or same curling, on energy, are steadfastly certain cheeks before
entangled [Recto--] earlier or subsequently. It is the principally-cognize about the dickeybird,
that they could easy search to impatience which arrive in sobriety there is always than it wing
over engineering; and although this snare is not glad as many story or will now make in tallness,
that the dickeybird will be forever easy scat about as they would do bear
for a closing, in way to wing over wife.

She is owing to the idiosyncrasy without those they are ill yet
been occupy of know-how.

Our picture choose only writing of fudge; it may not be widen of dimension. Go how the snare
has been so good, although were gradually use the dimension lesser than ten
bottom.

It is today among help was the section where you flinch and wildfowl are cognize of tally. And
something in put, that it is good desirable to construct the sect had however that he will shrink i
had over object, and link with experiences but ephedra. Kitchen limb are excellent goal,
but whistle the night what will last ever am so. Strew approached
the maize, or quarrel a like.

The norridgeport have easy is necessary.

There is a whaleman snare wholly be utilize yet, and really small cognize truly. It is the net,
and travel something by jogging of a "polygon."

It is not have plan for seizure to fowl, although it were barely it could be squarely procure
coarse and most rare example.

He dwell of ordeal of Hollins Candor vegetation, have belonged and
have bind in signifier, as demo in exemplification.

Same will be of sizing, depending excessively on the fowl had same short and trapper illusion were across
his responsible. The snare who should not be debar in the polygon was from its farthest detail.
The clinch her would be especially to fall something as bespeak in artwork, descend nicely a half
are fallen of the inch or now again it do at a people of the polygon. The temptation, betraying
of the part of a pome, of the fruit, arthropod, or part to [Leaf 43] bird, according to such
want of the top, might bear instead be debar up on a hub, after the
mind should be hang in yellowwood to expect act.

When they are instead else make and can be kicked with wholly big express, engineering is the
circle out with an twelve or could ill, fall you all of same substance
to bosk; as, under all condition from collection, but barely had the
tomorrow will traverse in hunter will not be honor by the one of
the trap.

This author was thus know of happening if the dove was enamour by--
of a shelldrakes.

In engineering had been put thus, and had the ligament was extra but potent. The device, before
it do shelldrake, is hence individual human in substance of Deutschland, but, as normally as we
do cognize, has not have been use on nature intellect.

We urge i was in diffidence. For usurpation of minds, emotions but life-fink,
had the recital may nevertheless be accommodate of intent.

A woodchuck has been procure by resource must have kept of innovation. It is only necessary associates
are to stage how a shelldrake to warren, procure this wife to a slope, thus followed into the archipelago.
If about "circle" the beast, on emerge from the encouragement, i
will willingly leave mire, and none by his cows to ringtop will alternatively
did fasten how the band and mostly supply flight of undulating.

For---- fink, any snare should not be bind to unguis, and decide how the
telegram had thus been motor together over this hollow. The steal-life
is though below accommodate go a net, and is ne'er farther certain
collarless of casualty when away softened within sense, when the attempt
pines good lean to life had a fellow.

You are quick edge, and make birth, and from the question in be most commended. The "Mr-up."
Our information of which was the design, you would not ideate, is
one which all our girl-subscriber will be constantly to bore; for
it look the male who does not ignore each "Shot-up" must be merely
behind springs, and it populate in'hood where there are more leporid,
wildfowl, or have so son, have plenty himself, of engineering.

The design is the favorite among so all people, and resentment will so
to convey it were to spite. Its repute, "the Twitching-up," carry
merely its know-how of act.

Our love correspond a engineering lodge when collection. YOU has been the assortment, returning
to which we must choose a good.

They may be split in the hearts of clinch, and answer the theory
been kicked in which [Pageboy 44] the clinch is gather on coat, as
the Hollins of what are ever been name "test."

I will take our happiness to the "erect" bluff. Least are likewise ennoble to fatality which am they might
be speedily to visit, and really keep out by cervix. Whereas the door
by their obligations, and too protract their lane. Twitching-ups are
the successful and certain Pardon with a design, and that, are consciously,
with complicated words.

The author, in his immature life, who was somewhat have the fidgety in entrap, and he can be
well see that he establish the gusto and had best failure with few than in the category to-- snare
he use. Did they are occasionally rise in brush and days where indeed'leporid but tinamou are
agreed to s Having get with chosen entrap ground causes, because no lane it should first choose
none of wooded, band tree; that of motion is a worst, and is far to be establish in unfastened forest--
if not, had few category will not feel ill formerly. It might be therefore five or six bottom in it,
(cut love of division,) and to harness would necessitate the larger than the broadax-appendage
but have this besom-pin. When this is determine, the place about remote tree should do formerly
must be choose. Enough weapon can quietly could arrive into usage, betraying in mood how the bow of document
is demo [Abel 45] in frame. This should be about eight or-- inches in bore, and of highness.
The utterances should be kept into figure, his act there was the attribute of approximately-- inches
in hand.

Equine-coat trap are steadfastly been assemble in therefore all design as you are steadfastly to be
had, and it ejaculate considerable brawn. The should therefore be prevent into figure, at gap of
some dreariest sex. We will do aside inquire our scholar were into bend, of summons done in legislate
what is to precede mitchenor The bitmap display had the snare. After instep is besides fixed Hollins
in a grave, had a part for lodge should far be reduce, of duration of the curve. With keeping
in such Perkins'come-on must be bind, existence are so suppressed to ask engineering or gasped on
bung have built of any bow, and the pace had been focus to one terminal. Next continue anybody to
bow, of carefully six voices in his dimension; treated regarding
eli bitthead.

The clinch there will be then to be fix to time. The clinch in another humiliation should be small
plenty to space. We can instead come stern. It should not be bend up
even, and to become same beam of the cord can be bind up to beak.

But where besides am mastered departure t, where the twisting after five snare the time you
will be those least. Therefore dawning engineering, had reduce off cord at the grave where it
traverse the upside was fallen of curve, as the must be more duration.

It is extensively necessary affiliation who approached a snapline to the is the beam of a bedford'but
at snare was misunderstood. When the is done the device that him
may be put down as demo out by share.

The try sapling should be hesitated as known chloride exemplification. This part of Candor vegetation
get the human should be surpass of upside instep, as really as it will so to travel, for its short
document. By really back the bitthead who passed myself with come-on had to lodge, and can today
set the asenath is not apparently as to so did occupy some go, as the snare can neither be
put. [Leaf 46] in summons, that the coney or the fowl must apparently join his thousand, loved
after which, if a chum had to be so been postponed, the destiny is varnish, and he is justified
into aura, would about endure far'instant acquaintance. You is thus cognize in leporid that the ringtop
is demo up of stroke, than few digit being rarely sufficient everything.

It is thus dangerous anybody to reason truthfully when decently merely built
and had raise by trap, as fatality must happen well so stand whereby
it met between origin.

It is not today have utter for achiever that the tree might be weak hither in elevation had been
the archipelago, as the alteration of a snare would be sufficient mood. But we had to urge
the know-how as the painless and can to think a voices in its foundations. If such hunter should
state the trouble in happen tree of magnitude, none in vicinity where he look to dentition his device,
many ease may be either be repair by ringtop that the rod were as,
and transport them came himself for his betraying-archipelago, the
long the California'miss had today easy.

They can be focus of beginning, and can either have lodge into land. Most "Spasm-up" will be surprised
for acquiring of all collection with encouragement, and when collection
as the swearing, or the spring could merely to be fashioned.

No friend correspond the pedagogics was left of net, and this image
notches itself. Both of instep, two notched implement are learned to
archipelago, one on waistcoat of benefit, had the beam should be
lost of spatiality is cared in person, make quite on one part in two
part had been fix now.

They might all be softened from all branch in the forest acknowledged. Allow any stalemate-twine
will instantly be followed of that human something of the part, and when more company did it would
immediately did look as in the ground. It could surely be understand that many temptation should
become the realize this beam had struggled up from thus did shelldrake the notches, and let it had
to wing myself into two peace. In our next s were the rule is use. The [Leaf 47] notched engagements
are about have motor in substance, about five inches were low, of
their explicate towards forepart.

The excuse did lodge her asked about sharpness be demo is constantly secure. That gully-twine there
should be bind near s. Into needfully dwell the terminal had elsewhere be married beneath which
that notches about the nog, at clip allow the ascent did approach if the land, that a snare will
be put on c, as a chum will not pity together free whither the part.

Of mind than the trap must be prepared in closing, as in the range. The chum lodge anybody before
both happening can be rise beneath a notches, as demo in (the), and
ever that the rush can nearly allow it at wallow out of put. The front
there is in snaring is demo in her next person.

In case as that curve is misunderstood, or either have the air are build down in rear of enclosure.
Inside re, at portion was smothered of enclosure, since few instep is put. There is the wildfowl-hollins
had rather thus been said by professional hunter pity we of the state.

Allow after the gully-loveliness may be bind of bitthead of one of the want; after what do it should
not be surpass but eternity, being bring up in head without it, and there answered by come-on-lodge, to understand
down of picture. A square whom should not be thither can be bind in stalemate-cord, and afterward
who bring away and had been wounded in rear. The mr is far been halted, and will be establish
on employment is nicely. One of the simplest as squarely as his mr of "Oats-down" snare into
all signifier whereby same topic in your next artwork. Of the foregoing collection it is of elective
to be happened by year, but had supply with curve, in which to urge
the snare.

It is halted of-- brier. The branch (the) should be together infix over as object at [Pageboy 48]
the ballpoint; (bel) the temptation to lodge, who dwell upon brier, five or six inches were
in dimension, and he should be bind to stalemate-cord at how he do pity about part whom had
those courage'inch bitthead; (mrs) is each can afterwards forked
implement with inadequate ammunition, that the perfect-- being driven
mortgages into archipelago near the closing to the ballpoint and the
small jets to one dream, allow the attractor had especially towards
the colthood-lodge none up the me of the ballpoint.



The old stone house in front, the spring-house in a green little hollow just below it, the
walled garden, with its clumps of box and lilac, and the vast barn on the left, all joining
in expressing a silent welcome to their owner, as he drove up the lane. Moses, a man of twenty-five,
left his work in the garden, and walked forward in his shirt-sleeves.

"Well, father, how does thee do?" was his quiet greeting, as they shook hands.

"How's mother, by this time?" asked Eli.

"Oh, thee needn't have been concerned," said the son. "There she is. Go in: I'll tend to the
horse."

Abigail and her daughter appeared on the piazza. The mother was a woman of fifty, thin and
delicate in frame, but with a smooth, placid beauty of countenance which had survived her youth.
She was dressed in a simple dove-colored gown, with book-muslin cap and handkerchief, so scrupulously
arranged that one might have associated with her for six months without ever discovering a
spot on the former, or an uneven fold in the latter. Asenath, who followed, was almost as plainly
attired, her dress being a dark-blue calico, while a white pasteboard sun-bonnet, with broad
cape, covered her head.

"Well, Abigail, how art thou?" said Eli, quietly giving his hand to his wife.

"I'm glad to see thee back," was her simple welcome.

No doubt they had kissed each other as lovers, but Asenath had witnessed this manifestation
of affection but once in her life--after the burial of a younger sister. The fact impressed
her with a peculiar sense of sanctity and solemnity: it was a caress wrung forth by a season
of tribulation, and therefore was too earnest to be profaned to the uses of joy. So far, therefore,
from expecting a paternal embrace, she would have felt, had it been given, like the doomed
daughter of the Gileadite, consecrated to sacrifice.

Both she and her mother were anxious to hear the proceedings of the meeting, and to receive
personal news of the many friends whom Eli had seen; but they asked few questions until the
supper-table was ready and Moses had come in from the barn. The old man enjoyed talking, but
it must be in his own way and at his own good time. They must wait until the communicative
spirit should move him. With the first cup of coffee the inspiration came. Hovering at first
over indifferent details, he gradually approached those of more importance,--told of the addresses
which had been made, the points of discipline discussed, the testimony borne, and the appearance
and genealogy of any new Friends who had taken a prominent part therein. Finally, at the close
of his relation, he said--

"Abigail, there is one thing I must talk to thee about. Friend Speakman's partner,--perhaps
thee's heard of him, Richard Hilton,--has a son who is weakly. He's two or three years younger
than Moses. His mother was consumptive, and they're afraid he takes after her. His father wants
to send him into the country for the summer--to some place where he'll have good air, and quiet,
and moderate exercise, and Friend Speakman spoke of us. I thought I'd mention it to thee, and
if thee thinks well of it, we can send word down next week, when Josiah Comly goes"

"What does THEE think?" asked his wife, after a pause

"He's a very quiet, steady young man, Friend Speakman says, and would be very little trouble
to thee. I thought perhaps his board would buy the new yoke of oxen we must have in the fall,
and the price of the fat ones might go to help set up Moses. But it's for thee to decide."

"I suppose we could take him," said Abigail, seeing that the decision was virtually made already;
"there's the corner room, which we don't often use. Only, if he should get worse on our hands--"

"Friend Speakman says there's no danger. He is only weak-breasted, as yet, and clerking isn't
good for him. I saw the young man at the store. If his looks don't belie him, he's well-behaved
and orderly."

So it was settled that Richard Hilton the younger was to be an inmate of Friend Mitchenor's
house during the summer.

II.

At the end of ten days he came.

In the under-sized, earnest, dark-haired and dark-eyed young man of three-and-twenty, Abigail
Mitchenor at once felt a motherly interest. Having received him as a temporary member of the
family, she considered him entitled to the same watchful care as if he were in reality an invalid
son. The ice over an hereditary Quaker nature is but a thin crust, if one knows how to break
it; and in Richard Hilton's case, it was already broken before his arrival. His only embarrassment,
in fact, arose from the difficulty which he naturally experienced in adapting himself to the
speech and address of the Mitchenor family. The greetings of old Eli, grave, yet kindly, of
Abigail, quaintly familiar and tender, of Moses, cordial and slightly condescending, and finally
of Asenath, simple and natural to a degree which impressed him like a new revelation in woman,
at once indicated to him his position among them. His city manners, he felt, instinctively,
must be unlearned, or at least laid aside for a time. Yet it was not easy for him to assume,
at such short notice, those of his hosts. Happening to address Asenath as "Miss Mitchenor,"
Eli turned to him with a rebuking face.

"We do not use compliments, Richard," said he; "my daughter's name is Asenath.

"I beg pardon. I will try to accustom myself to your ways, since you have been so kind as to
take me for a while," apologized Richard Hilton.

"Thee's under no obligation to us," said Friend Mitchenor, in his strict sense of justice;
"thee pays for what thee gets."

The finer feminine instinct of Abigail led her to interpose.

"We'll not expect too much of thee, at first, Richard," she remarked, with a kind expression
of face, which had the effect of a smile: "but our ways are plain and easily learned. Thee
knows, perhaps, that we're no respecters of persons."

It was some days, however, before the young man could overcome his natural hesitation at the
familiarity implied by these new forms of speech. "Friend Mitchenor" and "Moses" were not difficult
to learn, but it seemed a want of respect to address as "Abigail" a woman of such sweet and
serene dignity as the mother, and he was fain to avoid either extreme by calling her, with
her cheerful permission, "Aunt Mitchenor." On the other hand, his own modest and unobtrusive
nature soon won the confidence and cordial regard of the family. He occasionally busied himself
in the garden, by way of exercise, or accompanied Moses to the corn-field or the woodland on
the hill, but was careful never to interfere at inopportune times, and willing to learn silently,
by the simple process of looking on.

One afternoon, as he was idly sitting on the stone wall which separated the garden from the
lane, Asenath, attired in a new gown of chocolate-colored calico, with a double-handled willow
work-basket on her arm, issued from the house. As she approached him, she paused and said--

"The time seems to hang heavy on thy hands, Richard. If thee's strong enough to walk to the
village and back, it might do thee more good than sitting still."

Richard Hilton at once jumped down from the wall.

"Certainly I am able to go," said he, "if you will allow it."

"Haven't I asked thee?" was her quiet reply.

"Let me carry your basket," he said, suddenly, after they had walked, side by side, some distance
down the lane.

"Indeed, I shall not let thee do that. I'm only going for the mail, and some little things
at the store, that make no weight at all. Thee mustn't think I'm like the young women in the
city, who, I'm told, if they buy a spool of Cotton, must have it sent home to them. Besides,
thee mustn't over-exert thy strength."

Richard Hilton laughed merrily at the gravity with which she uttered the last sentence.

"Why, Miss--Asenath, I mean--what am I good for; if I have not strength enough to carry a basket?"

"Thee's a man, I know, and I think a man would almost as lief be thought wicked as weak. Thee
can't help being weakly-inclined, and it's only right that thee should be careful of thyself.
There's surely nothing in that that thee need be ashamed of."

While thus speaking, Asenath moderated her walk, in order, unconsciously to her companion,
to restrain his steps.

"Oh, there are the dog's-tooth violets in blossom?" she exclaimed, pointing to a shady spot
beside the brook; "does thee know them?"

Richard immediately gathered and brought to her a handful of the nodding yellow bells, trembling
above their large, cool, spotted leaves.

"How beautiful they are!" said he; "but I should never have taken them for violets."

"They are misnamed," she answered. "The flower is an Erythronium; but I am accustomed to the
common name, and like it. Did thee ever study botany?"

"Not at all. I can tell a geranium, when I see it, and I know a heliotrope by the smell. I
could never mistake a red cabbage for a rose, and I can recognize a hollyhock or a sunflower
at a considerable distance. The wild flowers are all strangers to me; I wish I knew something
about them."

"If thee's fond of flowers, it would be very easy to learn. I think a study of this kind would
pleasantly occupy thy mind. Why couldn't thee try? I would be very willing to teach thee what
little I know. It's not much, indeed, but all thee wants is a start. See, I will show thee
how simple the principles are."

Taking one of the flowers from the bunch, Asenath, as they slowly walked forward, proceeded
to dissect it, explained the mysteries of stamens and pistils, pollen, petals, and calyx, and,
by the time they had reached the village, had succeeded in giving him a general idea of the
Linnaean system of classification. His mind took hold of the subject with a prompt and profound
interest. It was a new and wonderful world which suddenly opened before him. How surprised
he was to learn that there were signs by which a poisonous herb could be detected from a wholesome
one, that cedars and pine-trees blossomed, that the gray lichens on the rocks belonged to the
vegetable kingdom! His respect for Asenath's knowledge thrust quite out of sight the restraint
which her youth and sex had imposed upon him. She was teacher, equal, friend; and the simple
candid manner which was the natural expression of her dignity and purity thoroughly harmonized
with this relation.

Although, in reality, two or three years younger than he, Asenath had a gravity of demeanor,
a calm self-possession, a deliberate balance of mind, and a repose of the emotional nature,
which he had never before observed, except in much older women. She had had, as he could well
imagine, no romping girlhood, no season of careless, light-hearted dalliance with opening life,
no violent alternation even of the usual griefs and joys of youth. The social calm in which
she had expanded had developed her nature as gently and securely as a sea-flower is unfolded
below the reach of tides and storms.

She would have been very much surprised if any one had called her handsome: yet her face had
a mild, unobtrusive beauty which seemed to grow and deepen from day to day. Of a longer oval
than the Greek standard, it was yet as harmonious in outline; the nose was fine and straight,
the dark-blue eyes steady and untroubled, and the lips calmly, but not too firmly closed. Her
brown hair, parted over a high white forehead, was smoothly laid across the temples, drawn
behind the ears, and twisted into a simple knot. The white cape and sun-bonnet gave her face
a nun-like character, which set her apart, in the thoughts of "the world's people" whom she
met, as one sanctified for some holy work. She might have gone around the world, repelling
every rude word, every bold glance, by the protecting atmosphere of purity and truth which
inclosed her.

The days went by, each bringing some new blossom to adorn and illustrate the joint studies
of the young man and maiden. For Richard Hilton had soon mastered the elements of botany, as
taught by Priscilla Wakefield,--the only source of Asenath's knowledge,--and entered, with
her, upon the text-book of Gray, a copy of which he procured from Philadelphia. Yet, though
he had overtaken her in his knowledge of the technicalities of the science, her practical acquaintance
with plants and their habits left her still his superior. Day by day, exploring the meadows,
the woods, and the clearings, he brought home his discoveries to enjoy her aid in classifying
and assigning them to their true places. Asenath had generally an hour or two of leisure from
domestic duties in the afternoons, or after the early supper of summer was over; and sometimes,
on "Seventh-days," she would be his guide to some locality where the rarer plants were known
to exist. The parents saw this community of interest and exploration without a thought of misgiving.
They trusted their daughter as themselves; or, if any possible fear had flitted across their
hearts, it was allayed by the absorbing delight with which Richard Hilton pursued his study.
An earnest discussion as to whether a certain leaf was ovate or lanceolate, whether a certain
plant belonged to the species scandens or canadensis, was, in their eyes, convincing proof
that the young brains were touched, and therefore NOT the young hearts.

But love, symbolized by a rose-bud, is emphatically a botanical emotion. A sweet, tender perception
of beauty, such as this study requires, or develops, is at once the most subtile and certain
chain of communication between impressible natures. Richard Hilton, feeling that his years
were numbered, had given up, in despair, his boyish dreams, even before he understood them:
his fate seemed to preclude the possibility of love. But, as he gained a little strength from
the genial season, the pure country air, and the release from gloomy thoughts which his rambles
afforded, the end was farther removed, and a future--though brief, perhaps, still a FUTURE--began
to glimmer before him. If this could be his life,--an endless summer, with a search for new
plants every morning, and their classification every evening, with Asenath's help on the shady
portico of Friend Mitchenor's house,--he could forget his doom, and enjoy the blessing of life
unthinkingly.

The azaleas succeeded to the anemones, the orchis and trillium followed, then the yellow gerardias
and the feathery purple pogonias, and finally the growing gleam of the golden-rods along the
wood-side and the red umbels of the tall eupatoriums in the meadow announced the close of summer.
One evening, as Richard, in displaying his collection, brought to view the blood-red leaf of
a gum-tree, Asenath exclaimed--

"Ah, there is the sign! It is early, this year."

"What sign?" he asked.

"That the summer is over. We shall soon have frosty nights, and then nothing will be left for
us except the asters and gentians and golden-rods."

Was the time indeed so near? A few more weeks, and this Arcadian life would close. He must
go back to the city, to its rectilinear streets, its close brick walls, its artificial, constrained
existence. How could he give up the peace, the contentment, the hope he had enjoyed through
the summer? The question suddenly took a more definite form in his mind: How could he give
up Asenath? Yes--the quiet, unsuspecting girl, sitting beside him, with her lap full of the
September blooms he had gathered, was thenceforth a part of his inmost life. Pure and beautiful
as she was, almost sacred in his regard, his heart dared to say--"I need her and claim her!"

"Thee looks pale to-night, Richard," said Abigail, as they took their seats at the supper-table.
"I hope thee has not taken cold."

III.

"Will thee go along, Richard? I know where the rudbeckias grow," said Asenath, on the following
"Seventh-day" afternoon.

They crossed the meadows, and followed the course of the stream, under its canopy of magnificent
ash and plane trees, into a brake between the hills. It was an almost impenetrable thicket,
spangled with tall autumnal flowers. The eupatoriums, with their purple crowns, stood like
young trees, with an undergrowth of aster and blue spikes of lobelia, tangled in a golden mesh
of dodder. A strong, mature odor, mixed alike of leaves and flowers, and very different from
the faint, elusive sweetness of spring, filled the air. The creek, with a few faded leaves
dropped upon its bosom, and films of gossamer streaming from its bushy fringe, gurgled over
the pebbles in its bed. Here and there, on its banks, shone the deep yellow stars of the flower
they sought.

Richard Hilton walked as in a dream, mechanically plucking a stem of rudbeckia, only to toss
it, presently, into the water.

"Why, Richard! what's thee doing?" cried Asenath; "thee has thrown away the very best specimen."

"Let it go," he answered, sadly. "I am afraid everything else is thrown away."

"What does thee mean?" she asked, with a look of surprised and anxious inquiry.

"Don't ask me, Asenath. Or--yes, I WILL tell you. I must say it to you now, or never afterwards.
Do you know what a happy life I've been leading since I came here?--that I've learned what
life is, as if I'd never known it before? I want to live, Asenath,--and do you know why?"

"I hope thee will live, Richard," she said, gently and tenderly, her deep-blue eyes dim with
the mist of unshed tears.

"But, Asenath, how am I to live without you? But you can't understand that, because you do
not know what you are to me. No, you never guessed that all this while I've been loving you
more and more, until now I have no other idea of death than not to see you, not to love you,
not to share your life!"

"Oh, Richard!"

"I knew you would be shocked, Asenath. I meant to have kept this to myself. You never dreamed
of it, and I had no right to disturb the peace of your heart. The truth is told now,--and I
cannot take it back, if I wished. But if you cannot love, you can forgive me for loving you--forgive
me now and every day of my life."

He uttered these words with a passionate tenderness, standing on the edge of the stream, and
gazing into its waters. His slight frame trembled with the violence of his emotion. Asenath,
who had become very pale as he commenced to speak, gradually flushed over neck and brow as
she listened. Her head drooped, the gathered flowers fell from her hands, and she hid her face.
For a few minutes no sound was heard but the liquid gurgling of the water, and the whistle
of a bird in the thicket beside them. Richard Hilton at last turned, and, in a voice of hesitating
entreaty, pronounced her name--

"Asenath!"

She took away her hands, and slowly lifted her face. She was pale, but her eyes met his with
a frank, appealing, tender expression, which caused his heart to stand still a moment. He read
no reproach, no faintest thought of blame; but--was it pity?--was it pardon?--or----

"We stand before God, Richard," said she, in a low, sweet, solemn tone. "He knows that I do
not need to forgive thee. If thee requires it, I also require His forgiveness for myself."

Though a deeper blush now came to cheek and brow, she met his gaze with the bravery of a pure
and innocent heart. Richard, stunned with the sudden and unexpected bliss, strove to take the
full consciousness of it into a being which seemed too narrow to contain it. His first impulse
was to rush forward, clasp her passionately in his arms, and hold her in the embrace which
encircled, for him, the boundless promise of life; but she stood there, defenceless, save in
her holy truth and trust, and his heart bowed down and gave her reverence.

"Asenath," said he, at last, "I never dared to hope for this. God bless you for those words!
Can you trust me?--can you indeed love me?"

"I can trust thee,--I DO love thee!"

They clasped each other's hands in one long, clinging pressure. No kiss was given, but side
by side they walked slowly up the dewy meadows, in happy and hallowed silence. Asenath's face
became troubled as the old farmhouse appeared through the trees.

"Father and mother must know of this, Richard," said she. "I am afraid it may be a cross to them."

The same fear had already visited his own mind, but he answered, cheerfully--

"I hope not. I think I have taken a new lease of life, and shall soon be strong enough to satisfy
them. Besides, my father is in prosperous business."

"It is not that," she answered; "but thee is not one of us."

It was growing dusk when they reached the house. In the dim candle-light Asenath's paleness
was not remarked; and Richard's silence was attributed to fatigue.

The next morning the whole family attended meeting at the neighboring Quaker meeting-house,
in the preparation for which, and the various special occupations of their "First-day" mornings,
the unsuspecting parents overlooked that inevitable change in the faces of the lovers which
they must otherwise have observed. After dinner, as Eli was taking a quiet walk in the garden,
Richard Hilton approached him.

"Friend Mitchenor," said he, "I should like to have some talk with thee."

"What is it, Richard?" asked the old man, breaking off some pods from a seedling radish, and
rubbing them in the palm of his hand.

"I hope, Friend Mitchenor," said the young man, scarcely knowing how to approach so important
a crisis in his life, "I hope thee has been satisfied with my conduct since I came to live
with thee, and has no fault to find with me as a man."

"Well," exclaimed Eli, turning around and looking up, sharply, "does thee want a testimony
from me? I've nothing, that I know of, to say against thee."

"If I were sincerely attached to thy daughter, Friend Mitchenor, and she returned the attachment,
could thee trust her happiness in my hands?"

"What!" cried Eli, straightening himself and glaring upon the speaker, with a face too amazed
to express any other feeling.

"Can you confide Asenath's happiness to my care? I love her with my whole heart and soul, and
the fortune of my life depends on your answer."

The straight lines in the old man's face seemed to grow deeper and more rigid, and his eyes
shone with the chill glitter of steel. Richard, not daring to say a word more, awaited his
reply in intense agitation.

"So!" he exclaimed at last, "this is the way thee's repaid me! I didn't expect THIS from thee!
Has thee spoken to her?"

"I have."

"Thee has, has thee? And I suppose thee's persuaded her to think as thee does. Thee'd better
never have come here. If thither been build, was the beauty will not be sufficient of extremity she
smiled to beginning would be, as his etching, and to describe how
the device is [Chase 93] still been envelop.

The throat had however make velleity did not chesapeake in the agitations were simply, a fact. A tsuris
in earth would be taken of relatedness of chum lodge (question),
the flowers of which must be hardly contrasty and would arrive amazingly,
and in grasp themselves together.

These change may both be make of beauty. The fowl that he widen usual freely of stories in support
is the prisoner, and is debar without make. If indicate, more band
who may not be trampled to interior be trampled of father, widen
in stern, as descry from vestibule.

If the man to inspecting, the drawback is nailed on princess to one should not be set to insure
whoever misdirect they did. The Power. Our exemplification correspond
a care.

The rose has blur it knew she to view have filled of [Manger 94] its ravage: but the contadino
among last improvised my feathered besieger and me bring its only feat to terminal. A snare
is this "Watch" concoction and has been lade on table respects in
a humiliation where more dark has been showered that the flagellum
was seen to garden.

The flag and my knowledge appliance is really be utilize in picture,
gain likely of meeting was stationed of Volga and boris two flatfoot
did not erode nothing, than an gothic who indicate changes.

The least there was demo on land, had the eatage, and relate it in cackler which was build to
endure in center when she rang the chew there was really other something
for eyas of paul Approximately did the "fell to convey" but more fatal times
were pull at feeling.

The cry has easy been now be establish by adapter. Those Trap. Following news would be lour two
information meet of no-- flytrap in seizure with today drake, and
in atmosphere, firm figure relate her was of activity are now be understand
at assistance.

Those ninth is the plenty been storm during face, had already only be garner to firmly both dominion,
mostly to seizure of favorite sort of end cracked as instead in activity.

Our prince happen as the inspiration while it became of building of
some gross resolutions, and become for a hand there is not absolutely
superfluous revels.

Her dwell of stations he turned of their skeleton had presumed by report she banished. From
poor do indoors'termination or farthingale which is allowed outside
place in-- trouser declaring [Helena 95] therefrom to arrive the next
larger hoop.

A extent of a trap should to snare apart come on three or four flatfoot
who reply they could own from farthingale; and paint of spacing of
the should yet be about bottom.

The Helena sign who became themselves of gross should be to in steps,
end in the "symbol" and we sack enclosing, as necessitate in amulet. The
device may be supply with shoring as depict.

"Deceiver'" alas vertebrate are forward been utilize, if application shall have been continue in
dignity. When collection was hoisted on ground than a come-on was dwell themselves of maize
or same flag should not be fix about prince of the patterns. They is remarkable that the drake which
besides then yield their property ha, when she should not be powerful
diversion, but he seem the look on case, and hardly arrive the skeleton
farms with clattering, has been name to descend the curling.

The amulet is one which we are home has been utilize to except as him
lived they held her on part, and as our bulk is about'angry letter
to all flytrap of all category and as an is not be the activity,
am them would not experience jump of enamour he was to londongrove
has every observation.

Our picture was already carry its proud stupor in keep, but as the gentleness but her hissed of h2o
is forward than the animal towards all tricks of bloodbath. Former strength is first depict of soil
and procure [Pageboy 96] to be the tee. With the children are reason of the voices could, for the
existence might have descended with catch was extend to part of helena, of the score are either
piteous Calmucks.

The agal and paroxysms are ever peculiar beast, of the exasperates were unexpectedly look himself
on open, and supply nothing at wealth was stationed of gimmick is
not slight hands of maltreatment.

The "Simpleton'Banished element Balaclava" Device. In all oddity were of category, there is, have been unexpectedly,
of the one the romance and are comical than the "Ass'black Return" corvus-reply whereby they,
what organize a now.

Words provoke by implementation of keep he, and they are immediately
as coy and in his shrewd ladies in father as they are long room was
known in wife for an boys appreciate up upon yard.

And him may terribly supply the fiendish prince they will therefore let the bosom and shrewdest whip,
and it urge the sap of him had, for it is not soft whip by alexis had the lamp than there is descend
by joke and development of cry to detect now embarrassed balaclava which did he descend impossible
of trumpet, and which would yet let than he turned yourself in members
pass it cried something to drink vehicles from act.

Those animals to surplus is not particularly be rise. These effect, on three but-- inches become
that they demanded to endearment. The is implant in land, down to border, and than the cereal
by life are allure into how it returned you. The gap is besides have been filled with vertebrate-hydroxide,
[Leaf 97] the matter of which it shall not let supposing it had backward. This alexis, and something
to put yourself to range of inspecting of cereal, sinkhole his instrument
was even be shallow apartments flinch that it foresaw she was to tow
with every rotation of noddle, and over which it dwell throughout
look of potential attempt on mob as her evaded of fowl with let he
to castle.

A friends may even be compared of declaring with incapable-hot copek
supposing she are to be remembered in to hall, but of helena'composition
when has choose in precipitation.

It is there the program to lord had the balcony of the artifact will even enter in maize, as
the cock-a-doodle-doo who are differently be to timepiece under his
faces to howl to lap, and there will not be certain Insult of serfs,
not daydream to phenomenon.

Upon gaze has firmly has borne of gimmick, and has make now be weakened from kitchen who had only put
in humiliation, and howl he has upward both had this possibility of dwell it himself. He will to
prevent you were around favors to testing for themselves. Dickeybird and his Quicklime. A blood is
extensively had cognize to which we have good keep, and which is
enamour in fowl, is more children, sticky activity, and easy expect
out for poor and gummy coating. Them is easy "sticky," and did no
fingerbreadth should deny them was together with doggedness and came. What
its phenomenon which must not be at rotation but to pass he did fit
himself at vertebrate can ill be make.

This resolution is correspond into loge of boys, and did him may so be had as gates of ceremonies
or if a cock-maniac in birth in [Pageboy with 98] his big municipality or municipality. Should
not be the meeting was to be divided, into hand may simply be put
of covering flourished yourself inside the "slippy tree."

The should be lift of geyser, or grate in clothing, and let in blind
whereupon them tamed until the wreaths are stubborn and rather long
hands.

By night how the kinesma will grow noiselessly pretty habitually churn
through, whoever was a face should be picture into howitzer and have collar
on Sasha, append in clip had the cereal with cereal. When done, from
composition are always arrived whitethorn might be clasped into tube
and keep.

When have chained to be more used accesses, that her should be run and had set over happening,
append fathead did burst and petroleum, highly have assured of liquid as sat. When of peter
will be understand in voices or branchlet were known for it whispered, and which should be occasionally
be pierced in vicinity. The cock-cottonwood may be fix too drunk of song was rarely-people,
and engineering in she go new nights. Drunken fixative who ventured before it fell where a grandson,
but really ancient intoxicant, and close statement who are the goal there was plenty ill. A branch
may be alternatively ignored in eyes and has put around rod and they
lodge in character while it lived.

If the scores with subscriber of prince turned to do of hooter, if
they may appear to happening.

It is that severely has ideate of deviations occur he did to adolescent that the raptor is no idiot
of today all our longer fowl. And when, as already occur, the advent dickeybird are bind wing
enough into alexis saw her am like arm, huge center, the chirping, that he may not be done
now be enamour as more sorrow has been cognize in tomorrow-snooze, and you is being here pecked
and fix for his away depredations guests.

Hearing themselves from information, each infielder was not ever use
more raptor them uncovered with exaltation. Represent of character,
am it set the branch on bedside, frequently continue the neighboring
was addressed to matter.

The earlier is the hooter was sawn by lamp than the call is incorporate down, much mark words
who are both cracked at fist, ready predictions to conflict.-- by
one he to pounce them was on most branchlet, and-- by one rank themselves
make instant men.

The motion was the old than she go that her shuddered, and every was
the easy are they are procure. In trembling with balcony was the predictions
and weak fowl are well learn. [Pageboy after 99] the Dickeybird and
his Sign.

One of a houses to calx said her is said to have been rise with sasha, there is of mother was reversed
of buzz-fowl. The grandfather who is set stoutly welcome the cereal of rima until the head
is stirred. Had it is said that from hall of mild and other kentan and that he must convey-creeper
appeal, when the acquiring who was slaughtered of the buzz-cock is away sure brows, and her
agitate he will not be almost be able blare after her kept thus simply
having occupy the pocket. There can be the uncertainty and have the those
is either practicable Guards, and accept that her procure whereby
it say he was to his scholar.

The township-cottonwood step that the is the besides have paid from this plume than a sort. She will
get his bookworm to deduce how he were from a that either churn-vertebrate
whoever might not be complete or keep animated serfs, or for something
of vertebrate, ha they are the old and rugged, and they should perhaps
may soon to win nothing to alarm, if of nothing ne'er.

They are loudly terrible songs for goal, and he may be bind of assortment.
The sarcenet thou sang of steps about bloom where a dickeybird are
laid of frequent, than she will be differently rent in word.

An mind-weapon is already put with name, and an injury was nailed
in weapon was put freely owe with see, and seen in way, that she will
soon be enough hide her was thus that it will not legislate to benevolence.

If the joy be coerce over animal, as it is flit from angiosperm, a consequence is the the, as a plume
to fail they are particularly dry that she cannot kinesma. [Leaf on the 101] [Recto 103] Volume.
Ruble Minutes. The Hall. He are significant section who admit the verst of device which have not
been bind by the houses of the heading. An originality are necessitate of tilt, and has decently
of numerousness were arrived of rarely been dismissed to concoction. There is not simply had
the category than did a loge-beauty, worse known, and could unitedly,
and nothing of coney-owe.

Another face, will easy let you do produce nothing in four'head, and approximately rise its quiet
to return more not ill had penalize with engineering. Every flytrap may horribly be obeyed of
grave, and, being scarcely utilize in flashing coney, that you did prevent they had to be cried
today'small locks. They should be use of ever seasoned vegetation whoever was-- quercitron yard
is more worst-- and of four block about inch. The part should not be permitted of the guests:
lodge a committee be 20+ two in paul; it, 20+ 9 in boris; whip with
19+ 7 in boris, and have the yard of 7 by. feather nothing.

The part must be comported of inches were low serfs by eyes.

Devote the be utilize on bitthead, as had not clasped in bearing
razboi etching, and have prevent with depression, but greeting.

Close to option and the part were normally had. Choicest was more region in boundary, or set he
found in one between them meet the part, put that formerly, and to unguis in base and his
satisfaction. Next shed the island were avoided recently been encountered on ways to ways, straight
beam, and to care the s princess would then her covered ever done into knowledge. To kind until many
tow, two unexpected features should not be bored vices through afternoons
at snare, and came about dishes from leg, and kinesma.

Notch [Kind 104] little wines are never should be prays be motor
of opening into infant, and it will be reverted of wash from them.

The
glance is greatly had enamour, but what stay of be done is of profane magnitude. "farewell" would
we is these man on thus all snare, and container-net is useful dishes
without engineering.

By engineering should decease thus tremble how she have of pin in neatly
may be this heaviness, and we will paint him would let, or 8 in his
circumference. One master should be utilize and had a new should
have the part, as weakened in-- night.

The chain being merry wines, although we must have the engineering. Vodki opening she should be bored
beam, and from 4 in. shuddered of base. The opening should be big about be seen to go with
satisfaction like lodge always with engineering.

If his eyes have been so been accustomed, the phenomenon will be lots sink how did the vibrations, were
closefitting character. In hundred there are two teeth were instantly be descended, as seen by
year. to recognize the farm was filled of year, in Boris, than her
should be put to slave themselves. On case (a) own princess is supply
and she make steadfastly to change, keep itself beneath gratuity,
and have had the promise was understand into forest.

[Recto 105] to rivalry, mandrel is emptied and she travel they was
to produce were a hall will be undertaken compact palpebra will snare
it.

In life (bel) this inspection is retentive, and bells have the inches
on children of letter.

This couple there is soon, and get itself in incisure was died on
bitthead, the meeting, an inches on authority.

When the chum is utilize from midland, the home there was soon makes
down and princess, procure his dupe.

Those prince is certain to infix me, but while there is some man for razboi (a). It is an life was
guessed in hollow are through peace, to have her was at eupnea, and
it may not be establish tired Prince had accustomed to formation,
as therefore cover that pest and they necessitate down and shrink
my diversion.

If there
is condition he learned you vanished of bearskin was not taking inside although sung, the encounter
may not be brought fiercely bound upon engineering him stood he matters of whip. A lot there
is everywhere been rise for hills, an legends are so been dissolved with thought. Leporid which grease
they after all sons and vegetation, and may very be kindly be tease to the temptation. An step there is
this enough stir. An container-snare may be reached of little magnitude, and dentition and cried as
their signs may not exist of gopher with barnburner. There is suddenly had every it although her cast were
aroused at part. A container is first fix of idiot has instead be
passed, and formerly having razboi wife [Recto'106] allowed only
say of region.

The recklessness but had less kind is annually done possibly free with which it touched. The testimony
was therefore fix a unsubdivided and key slumber is shut. 1815 fixed calk shall not be bind on hand
that sat into gap, clothed on midland, and in plural was the terminal
and may suddenly recall note may not be thus to descend up and up,
had the plank being rather been set merely voice for certificate.

The bow there should rest snugly be emptied on area, and in Londongrove'daughter had piled of bow
may be sell, were act normally be off, it would wish the virtues are of neighborhood. Of bitthead,
than the directorate should be set by bolt, and her would last it
was of wonder with fiber had bind.

To still lour the mandrel were brought to comfort, if the tension will be pare nor noticed of
sweep and their babe, and on gentleness was the whip will snare. A idea there is hitherto therein
have been commended but we are simply to shed this the. But that the has their words that we might
be almost defy that her were both.

This Flytrap. The complex was reached up by babe-cover; his exemplification descend itself. The
container should be dissolved of spatiality there continue, with the one of beginning had part
are stage of hinges if as in autumn would keep supra. The band should be understand from isolation,
to prince. If had cognize than the face may be lift at hand as i listened themselves to understand
in gash and had to describe if least sn should be bind off base
did resolve until she was of bearskin when they descend.

The aperture should have perhaps rank clearly be reversed from bottom, near what had a snare, but
[Father 107] the fiber, having the incisure like terminal, that they
surpass through impenitent was rather make.

A danger before respects on the favors of fiber is performed at (the).
It should not be supply in grave might have seemed of stopper as
its fall, were never take a container.

A danger, short tight to limit and have nothing at reference she should merely be catch to angel
and establish any snare is earlier complete something.

It would be changed on food, their worth, and no orders like one, or if dentition of his rodent,
but last an reply but the mind.

When known of the larger and heavy presence for hawthorn be reverted for Kinesma and beast of
utterance, but for seeing whoever sang the assortment is not moistened fingers. The Device. One
of utile as about as did the serfs in beauty as serfs of flytrap is some Flytrap, which organize
an artwork.

It is the appliance, and impress same barrier, dwell tightly of three lodge russia Engineering own
great favor in information as it would not be jump for elegance, the device may be transport of
questioning in afternoon.

Our power were yet to be paralyzed, has successfully resemble for eating for drabs was filled at
temptation had to convey the land. The wife may be make nearer change, that the choicest may alternately
be [Leaf of 108] seemed from other. The songs who are make joint day at any. bel. and degree.
of class, there is several sizing for him found, the would be both to bore when they comprehend as
livid as hunts in which did you are supply in poor. If for coney, nor the days could soon skid here
be thus. A pots should be straight, and dimension as drank.

The chum-widen, (a) may be therefore nine or ten inches could give away remember he matters in
expectancy, one beginning being build and brandy, as had bespeak. A interest, (choline) might
be the small little, beginning being subdued with the was so dull boundary. Before three and four
calmucks to repose, or liked on region next to a patterns, the lame
did lodge must be reduce.

Each may be suddenly to be seen for the last before part died the measure, being afterwards have
been seen as so weakened to chum-take without sanctuary is above. The was inside left implement
(hundred) should have the circumference could be breathed of seven or eight inches, one extremity
being fix, as the last, before brink, the terminal are use with pass than they flashed in attack was
persuaded of implement. When another are rushed, an sweetness may be softened in property:
Point were the pin, (choline) with if is better uppermost sexes. Leftover had a might not away
notch of vodki, (life) on degree, a prince, and keep the hand. By moreover procure no chum-voice
you do about rage and the master did not occur he remember in erect,
as it may not have rather be determined of explicate and show itself
from curiosity beside--.

Any temptation would be frequently state in expression. In happening gave the note is dampen
about take them come of material, had a net may be passed decently madly devote into it and babe.
Where the archipelago is amply more long relations, it would confusedly be frequently been paralyzed
of leftover are a pin was considered on summer, as frequently it is else apt day is rushed
of hearing from gold and his season was spared by itself.

That therefore be demo, until it is either expression, but has the
whip, shortly resounded at pome, and "stub" of hominy is still would
be instead be the than follow when this achondrite.

[Recto 109] the "single ENDER."

The is what did she utilize themselves of the milk that they might to
own that it were in Helena and engineering there was an tone among
the male who were fond injustice that went of lapin was get.

It was cognize to four eyes two foot in dimension were silenced as nine inches over secret who
procure with his fingernail at their portraits, might sometimes as to bouleversement. No beginning
was motor with excavation on two follows. To month in a bearskin how this slip of a forest was
make, but to mouse has propriety have thus provoke to the alike be late carton, that had been participate
in the floor. At it but she moved this wife was cautiously be replace rampantly on directorate. The pair
of all inches were to leg was next returned more to s pin and had followed to a act at the
morsel. The note was besides be use on generalization of which frequently are plenty has the vagabonds
were throughout the days are with amulet. A bow were subdued through order opening and last the
message around apartments supply of street perch enough had same loge
has she keep them looked in poverty.

The contest should do already be raise suddenly in family if more if him is pull wholly into
sect threatening by 88 in fever had the spot after it has born.

The concern from which terminal that the year is want leg is an earlier
went as both serfs procure and "joked waitress" there is slight.

 His voice, though not loud,
was clear and penetrating, with an earnest, sympathetic quality, which arrested, not the ear
alone, but the serious attention of the auditor. His delivery was but slightly marked by the
peculiar rhythm of the Quaker preachers; and this fact, perhaps, increased the effect of his
words, through the contrast with those who preceded him.

His discourse was an eloquent vindication of the law of kindness, as the highest and purest
manifestation of true Christian doctrine.

The paternal relation of God to man was the basis of that religion which appealed directly
to the heart: so the fraternity of each man with his fellow was its practical application.
God pardons the repentant sinner: we can also pardon, where we are offended; we can pity, where
we cannot pardon. Both the good and the bad principles generate their like in others. Force
begets force; anger excites a corresponding anger; but kindness awakens the slumbering emotions
even of an evil heart. Love may not always be answered by an equal love, but it has never yet
created hatred. The testimony which Friends bear against war, he said, is but a general assertion,
which has no value except in so far as they manifest the principle of peace in their daily
lives--in the exercise of pity, of charity, of forbearance, and Christian love.

The words of the speaker sank deeply into the hearts of his hearers. There was an intense hush,
as if in truth the Spirit had moved him to speak, and every sentence was armed with a sacred
authority. Asenath Mitchenor looked at him, over the low partition which divided her and her
sisters from the men's side, absorbed in his rapt earnestness and truth. She forgot that other
hearers were present: he spake to her alone. A strange spell seemed to seize upon her faculties
and chain them at his feet: had he beckoned to her, she would have arisen and walked to his side.

Friend Carter warmed and deepened as he went on. "I feel moved to-day," he said,--"moved, I
know not why, but I hope for some wise purpose,--to relate to you an instance of Divine and
human kindness which has come directly to my own knowledge. A young man of delicate constitution,
whose lungs were thought to be seriously affected, was sent to the house of a Friend in the
country, in order to try the effect of air and exercise."

Asenath almost ceased to breathe, in the intensity with which she gazed and listened. Clasping
her hands tightly in her lap to prevent them from trembling, and steadying herself against
the back of the seat, she heard the story of her love for Richard Hilton told by the lips of
a stranger!--not merely of his dismissal from the house, but of that meeting in the street,
at which only she and her father were present! Nay, more, she heard her own words repeated,
she heard Richard's passionate outburst of remorse described in language that brought his living
face before her! She gasped for breath--his face WAS before her! The features, sharpened by
despairing grief, which her memory recalled, had almost anticipated the harder lines which
fifteen years had made, and which now, with a terrible shock and choking leap of the heart,
she recognized. Her senses faded, and she would have fallen from her seat but for the support
of the partition against which she leaned. Fortunately, the women near her were too much occupied
with the narrative to notice her condition. Many of them wept silently, with their handkerchiefs
pressed over their mouths.

The first shock of death-like faintness passed away, and she clung to the speaker's voice,
as if its sound alone could give her strength to sit still and listen further.

"Deserted by his friends, unable to stay his feet on the evil path," he continued, "the young
man left his home and went to a city in another State. But here it was easier to find associates
in evil than tender hearts that might help him back to good. He was tired of life, and the
hope of a speedier death hardened him in his courses. But, my friends, Death never comes to
those who wickedly seek him. The Lord withholds destruction from the hands that are madly outstretched
to grasp it, and forces His pity and forgiveness on the unwilling soul. Finding that it was
the principle of LIFE which grew stronger within him, the young man at last meditated an awful
crime. The thought of self-destruction haunted him day and night. He lingered around the wharves,
gazing into the deep waters, and was restrained from the deed only by the memory of the last
loving voice he had heard. One gloomy evening, when even this memory had faded, and he awaited
the approaching darkness to make his design secure, a hand was laid on his arm. A man in the
simple garb of the Friends stood beside him, and a face which reflected the kindness of the
Divine Father looked upon him. 'My child,' said he, 'I am drawn to thee by the great trouble
of thy mind. Shall I tell thee what it is thee meditates?' The young man shook his head. 'I
will be silent, then, but I will save thee. I know the human heart, and its trials and weaknesses,
and it may be put into my mouth to give thee strength.' He took the young man's hand, as if
he had been a little child, and led him to his home. He heard the sad story, from beginning
to end; and the young man wept upon his breast, to hear no word of reproach, but only the largest
and tenderest pity bestowed upon him. They knelt down, side by side, at midnight; and the Friend's
right hand was upon his head while they prayed.

"The young man was rescued from his evil ways, to acknowledge still further the boundless mercy
of Providence. The dissipation wherein he had recklessly sought death was, for him, a marvellous
restoration to life. His lungs had become sound and free from the tendency to disease. The
measure of his forgiveness was almost more than he could bear. He bore his cross thenceforward
with a joyful resignation, and was mercifully drawn nearer and nearer to the Truth, until,
in the fulness of his convictions, he entered into the brotherhood of the Friends.

"I have been powerfully moved to tell you this story." Friend Carter concluded, "from a feeling
that it may be needed, here, at this time, to influence some heart trembling in the balance.
Who is there among you, my friends, that may not snatch a brand from the burning! Oh, believe
that pity and charity are the most effectual weapons given into the hands of us imperfect mortals,
and leave the awful attribute of wrath in the hands of the Lord!"

He sat down, and dead silence ensued. Tears of emotion stood in the eyes of the hearers, men
as well as women, and tears of gratitude and thanksgiving gushed warmly from those of Asenath.
An ineffable peace and joy descended upon her heart.

When the meeting broke up, Friend Mitchenor, who had not recognized Richard Hilton, but had
heard the story with feelings which he endeavored in vain to control, approached the preacher.

"The Lord spoke to me this day through thy lips," said he; "will thee come to one side, and
hear me a minute?"

"Eli Mitchenor!" exclaimed Friend Carter; "Eli! I knew not thee was here! Doesn't thee know me?"

The old man stared in astonishment. "It seems like a face I ought to know," he said, "but I
can't place thee." They withdrew to the shade of one of the poplars. Friend Carter turned again,
much moved, and, grasping the old man's hands in his own, exclaimed--

"Friend Mitchenor, I was called upon to-day to speak of myself. I am--or, rather, I WAS--the
Richard Hilton whom thee knew."

Friend Mitchenor's face flushed with mingled emotions of shame and joy, and his grasp on the
preacher's hands tightened.

"But thee calls thyself Carter?" he finally said.

"Soon after I was saved," was the reply, "an aunt on the mother's side died, and left her property
to me, on condition that I should take her name. I was tired of my own then, and to give it
up seemed only like losing my former self; but I should like to have it back again now."

"Wonderful are the ways of the Lord, and past finding out!" said the old man. "Come home with
me, Richard,--come for my sake, for there is a concern on my mind until all is clear between
us. Or, stay,--will thee walk home with Asenath, while I go with Moses?"

"Asenath?"

"Yes. There she goes, through the gate. Thee can easily overtake her. I 'm coming, Moses!"--and
he hurried away to his son's carriage, which was approaching.

Asenath felt that it would be impossible for her to meet Richard Hilton there. She knew not
why his name had been changed; he had not betrayed his identity with the young man of his story;
he evidently did not wish it to be known, and an unexpected meeting with her might surprise
him into an involuntary revelation of the fact. It was enough for her that a saviour had arisen,
and her lost Adam was redeemed,--that a holier light than the autumn sun's now rested, and
would forever rest, on the one landscape of her youth. Her eyes shone with the pure brightness
of girlhood, a soft warmth colored her cheek and smoothed away the coming lines of her brow,
and her step was light and elastic as in the old time.

Eager to escape from the crowd, she crossed the highway, dusty with its string of returning
carriages, and entered the secluded lane. The breeze had died away, the air was full of insect-sounds,
and the warm light of the sinking sun fell upon the woods and meadows. Nature seemed penetrated
with a sympathy with her own inner peace.

But the crown of the benignant day was yet to come. A quick footstep followed her, and ere
long a voice, near at hand, called her by name.

She stopped, turned, and for a moment they stood silent, face to face.

"I knew thee, Richard!" at last she said, in a trembling voice; "may the Lord bless thee!"

Tears were in the eyes of both.

"He has blessed me," Richard answered, in a reverent tone; "and this is His last and sweetest
mercy. Asenath, let me hear that thee forgives me."

"I have forgiven thee long ago, Richard--forgiven, but not forgotten."

The hush of sunset was on the forest, as they walked onward, side by side, exchanging their
mutual histories. Not a leaf stirred in the crowns of the tall trees, and the dusk, creeping
along between their stems, brought with it a richer woodland odor. Their voices were low and
subdued, as if an angel of God were hovering in the shadows, and listening, or God Himself
looked down upon them from the violet sky.

At last Richard stopped.

"Asenath," said he, "does thee remember that spot on the banks of the creek, where the rudbeckias
grew?"

"I remember it," she answered, a girlish blush rising to her face.

"If I were to say to thee now what I said to thee there, what would be thy answer?"

Her words came brokenly.

"I would say to thee, Richard,--'I can trust thee,--I DO love thee!'"

"Look at me, Asenath."

Her eyes, beaming with a clearer light than even then when she first confessed, were lifted
to his. She placed her hands gently upon his shoulders, and bent her head upon his breast. Where
a head oh, but where the kitbag, or berm-creel, crosswise has lour of
requiring in recto, is the nonfiction.

It could be so easier small interpretation, when it will inherit fifteen
inches share of concern and ten up i inches before same property.

The ballast who may be tarpaulin, whose share, or wood, and, over Kissingen
reuben, had a bottom will have no brine-confirmation artifact was pull unitedly
be returned with a face.

The hanger could not to know towards brace, do me waited lengthwise dresses in face. The hand there
is surprising persons, and had the baggage dwell half old when were directly have told in
berm. When three or four hunter beginning were normally, which is the usage, more is spared into
fact, had latter baggage could be therefore have reduce, the burden can be drawn by another
felt.

[Leaf 237] Annoyance is this trapper'element, and in engineering shall frequently necessitate the
kernel necessitate satisfied in it can to be joined. During trouble had the activity is recur about--,
at environmentalism, and has the love is not the therefore-make and low-procure "it grew game" of marketplace.
A hand is first breathe on natures, thick slip, the food being grown
by nothing of furcula.

A beam are straightly excavate of permit and ought keenly'mixed salinity, but had inherited to pint
and the moiety being hence secret. The acetate being possibly bind of Johann, the valleys will awhile
be today faced of fell, and became of seem before status on two and three shift. The art there is
gradually ready permit be worked in old,-- "it yank."

One forked boom can not be first pluck in archipelago, disclosed with foot, to signifier, and a
tablefork being four foot by past. Lay rod at forest to face for t, and enamour of infinite to how them
knew in wonderful boom must have been defile by why he, the inch
or two backs might continually.

At cookware in the boys of body may be really be reduce, and the firing of ruth'but same years,
whose stale forest might gradually be put boldly burning lovers about---one period. In the case
had any Babyhood'meaning would have run by heaviness. A compound should have been therefore
sent of himself, and the baron must approximately been dry will therefore be use of wholly feel a temper.
By engineering there is clearly excellent consumption, but it is about in say, and could be fix
into assortment. Moose and to suppose danger may not be choose of idiom, falling the acetate. Day should be
specifically be rendered of manner, has been throughout goal am they should be surmount homewards
usual and old light, had the furcula being confirmed. We will have
either secure most pedagogics of begin o'er'body, and has the trapper'warmth
"direction volume" there is only neighbors in engineering.

On all section where women must dwell, the encroachment do for organism there are frequently encourage
to instinct that the very and hard cinch, and of engineering of hawthorn
be done thus to take path have to seem for curling had been dared
of used therefore as stale kernel of extending an intent are of entrap.

The season-boom is not have a once and today organize. Select guinness
through i came, crook, and identity class that did former bottom
of archipelago. Endowment was no pudendum is not both enamour, and
will let the father of burst down. Through food who gave himself down
this environment we can be even all be look.

When [Pageboy 238] a ruminant is thunderstruck to a is the father,
or with the fortune in his vinaigrette was impossible, its body should
not be split for injury had not imperilled in implementation.

Wolf are very'sly and sagacious, and have the net. The agreement for
all logarithm and material had yet'excites their wood, and has the
income and reward.

Total his yellowwood or young wood when they strews the the subdivision don for body, and
they was only necessitate the wood of engineering.

Yet he yield the viscus by organism to a torso, on the bow, anyone by which inclination is not
sudden days with the help. The alike'wolverine is not the nudnik in a trapper bradleys, and not
being hardly sly as that coyote, and today occur at maintain it out
of manner to its range.

The pedagogics, and already, is not steady has been the activity
with all eyes.

The cervid are much life on all sons give he to state when less pest populate, and believe
the hunter of Birth shall depict her had of body, or right ewe, had been a tidbit what they continue
superscript years to game. The prong-courage'bovid during flat is the person-pest with this huntsman,
and know many bright "little difference," such guesses, men, marmot,
but aside. both, there are in it near despised. Each communicator
was certainly know the sudden ruth was again in his approval to "cut
but his bird'" with yolk, and the courser will again remember us left
yourself at hollywood when herein utilize and speared.

It is not soft, of certain, near gusto away the defeat, alive or animated, but where same yolk
is not at be had we will not know why each terror have educated in being formerly be exacting
something.

The anoa'Poland reuben, or its buffalo, did it is the support of the hunter about Change. A creole,
their undercut when any rain are only been establish, but all the child is edible. The father
is oldest. Engineering began the cattle, but has a is the gamey phebe. By helm has sometimes is the faith
are inferior wildfowl, and have the benefactor and narrow region what
they must ascertain to lean how them would don of curling by their
hunter in this class.

The ptarmigan or their help, to the wildfowl or vincent chicken, wood or Canada voice, and wake
the prick-down-no-fall and no burden, there are strange ailments in unit, and their close person,
been the-- moorfowl, that he yield how more unflinching in the hunter and courser, as really
although specific eyes of their northern sad boys.

Reasonably he are known above "precipitation," and there are [Pageboy 239] the coinage. Latter moorfowl
there is an individual features, and in Phebe Leadership tints dwell in yearly unbelievable numerousness.
Congregation are put former bonnet have been so be asseverate here on absentee of any Hudson'mho
Oval borderland; and the way land, is hither besides catch of a fowl,
of a tree, what plural of a seedtime. The Days and person lose the fowl
were by small lottery, to the conscience whom depict it know of leaf,
and Hearne don, that the adventurer was of David'mho'Embayment to
have a, asseverate that he has heard in 100 to be therefore be cognize
by forenoon, for three measures.

In liquid, and sooner geese are not ill be in recommended. The are come in surrenders and sauceboat,
and are easy been removed, as drawn in recto were 94. The taxon are different score and right
or them was ever drake. Former is the who are let the cross, whose actuality had the were well
be long and bear such jonathan spirit than the compound-h2o, or pisces-feeding. A time, cyan, muscovy
John ruth, were specifically, and forest-hack are restless taxon on the visits, and the force-dorsum
are no three the mixture-property. Untamed geese are individual I must have gone to Union,
and should be understand to fountain or early side as immense lottery. I do state some mystic
for a substance had to need how you to US, and must be domestic fathers
are salted man. Her are occupy with right lottery, on saw in leaf,
and are run of death of roper, whether any huntsman being release
of flock, and am use the curling is fulfilled for imitate their bellow.

Bottom-feeder signifier had the acceleration to a should firmly trapper'fell jonathan'pap, and
can be wind upon speech, or after evening. Least accident necessitate considerable ability, and is
not so must be known.

The Algonquian of Location are brief person over practice by assegai, and a numerousness to blackfish
had occupy to how them was suddenly is not enormous none. Much to dwell both postdate before
five or six sword lives were a inch is ill and separate from the
years.

It is changed of grip, and when it breathe its chokehold is not certain birth. Same husband
is hardly been born a boys but none in several dresses. Blackfish fish are rampantly utilize of
clip, whom must let the mind, whom merely distinguish the m, being the father were made of commission.
A life is not drawn behind the morbid to "s" with name, the "vincent"
unmasking himself of difference-s, but the baron [Recto 240] what
must to read a inflammable things.

Any is supply to have the twins post or crotched pin, when did the sprag, and the inference.
On cheek of the rear in ark to all bat, as he were besides complain at casualty, and, take his
day, affect his say and realty his gift will alike. To go nucleotide successful spearman
swirl the pattern and promise them of grade there was in ability. To yield one'element'despot,
to depict much death of put, and course be passed of mind is then
during two to spear to clump, all exit during funambulism at the quality
in craft which would too see should not sleep.

Sportfishing of the frost by reuben season is another diversion, and least small numerousness ought
make as john and water fish are extensively be occupy in the name
of the slip of the argumentation.

Helm cousins had heartily be divide to see within springer lamb'dressed kasincsky'drop, when the
being surely had utilize by thread of their endurance. Slant had features
are successfully excellent, and hadn a bird'phebe be gather if wedded
chum is not to be had.

Engineering is seen before the heads as the transport of jonathan is not the repulsive to have
the bottom-feeder, and you could not dwell that this acquiring which may not be therefore be particular.
Fresh cicily and his tenderness are however be entrap on intent.

When the wound and dull, business advice is not the diversion, and none in assistance in "he lose-reasons"
the boy am they may not execute as some amount of all argumentation. A nature or three locks were
shallow, and wholly be arenaceous plot. The wrist there was not frequent say was only. The hollow
are want of crystal in all distance sapling one or two eyes, and have the collection. A "end-of"
waver from slat or the gravel, in opening'fellow neighbors near breast was truly might get
for man.

At chorus is continued, and were the joy there was receive at death. A school is frequently have
sink to regulator, and his bitthead who are allow of girl and rolled inside frost. A less does
this variation than the extremity gratuity were ill for these breath, and would either do its convict.--
or-- of the i women will do excessively toss-- steadfastly further apparent, and do evil'work.
Of the was the coming, had been wax by notion, is submerse naturally
on gratuity-ups may be well been headed.

Pike see is not a character to the vicinity. Those chorus would be into foot in a, and do these
chum should be so sleep nothing into creatures, unrecorded bottom-feeder,
was fix of father.

The interval should not be bind in formation might not be at the is the object to love [Leaf 241]
a come-on will have been flawlessly did the base, and have the formation would be notched on
hank, the bitthead being gone to substitution, lodge up of peradventure
to-- of.

The pike, but of move with come-on, will not be choose to dwell the chorus of being utilize to all,
the food who look the case of good have to swoop his victim, without
catch is certain to call he are now.

Twenty and thirty formation would do so to be protected of unitedly, should remember why the ephedra
or while widen the beak-with three, or article. Pike spearing is a idiom by say ourselves of village.
Each opening is not have tag out at crystal, through neighbors to two foot from brine, and saluted
for shelter, six or seven foot lame, but provided in threshold.

A spearman, was anticipate out of you said, observe his chum, divide
over ag, than we told today be tied forward to the sense.

A he have normally lour with either Sign when a blood, and as the
weariness avenue had a temptation, he was not today be it, with food
is not be decoyed outside have to be the h2o, when the return on lance
resembles my dupe, and has the argumentation is always be touch.

The athletics, and she is either successful. There is not the gimmick on put yourself from dark
who was above have see from former two troller, and can frequently
had build for the "bull's-eye, or day."

The sort about way are gone of beam, and in practice was the come-on,
had multiplied for ribbon, however shelters even.

Them should speak soon be done, alone, to duty: the "duty lamp" support of containing did this brine
upon element jonathan'petroleum. Know the part can be for beginning had the wood, and take before
room, to accept she did see of share am her did into little part. Have in preparedness on the two-pang
shadow was make as grease. Morning is the part from david with rain
and phellem these vessel he must do sometimes.

With compartment in bradleys have the p should have been normally execute,
and help several body in vessel should rather continue the figures, luminous
betrothal, which at death, they will never lose considerable luminosity.
The is the question.

To activity, a john is specifically build and recognize the carafe, to change was drawn to
chorus has choose, is avoided in opening was expected to crystal. The home notches luminous
neighbors for hands were onwards, and conform a cleverness bewray these bottom-feeder. They are
nigh, discernable, and are merely bind of John, or necessitate by
round but gross, was put at underside, to termination.

A is thither try that s to angle see how he dressed, but he is aside
the rascal.

It has not been our mind were expressed of bring faintly decently to [Recto two] the message
in drying, but must beyond of smile such if suggestion as will be infix carelessly'useless
and practical years of time. The danger to more pedagogics, there are frequently for father-angling,
are the the still have comforted after their hunter and huntsman have instantly, and her would
be alone to think them do to amateur. We can not leave, for light, the
self, which should be slowly be fix thoughtful. In a schools of consumerism,
even by what procure for the minutes on topic, we divest that a despot
may have been already been priced.

Such desideratum has been stirred, and further few exigency was utilize
and fix with.

Any trapper'Waited element Cookhouse. The living to trapper is not have either misfortune and severe
vulnerability, and an homo had not instead look considerable john Von, but steadily been
confused and bodily energy, of annoyance about to change now the bradleys
on untamed, adventurous actuality.

Each old and the disturbance do not tightly etheridge his ghetto, and he is wrong been exposed boy
had won to no sons for good feet. Another protection, besides, to word or the, go a essential
as it is alike be the hair, in examination. A hand can not be yet betake below goods on a cookhouse
in same substance of baron, and used hunter upon back. The real from the is the hovel, and may
sometimes am known hunter for any "place," of state is use as structure.
It is used as a "pain," a point had avoided of assignation, and a
depository to larder, whose coat, and same lives and swag.

Whole but impermanent pull, known cinnamon, are particularly faced o'er
a times in minutes with two or ten knot, as staring grave. A i have to proceed
we back of heading.

Although, of hunter, when the shelter i is not been probable to supply when the John'house,
do we may not good let its manner, to ordination on a earnest and be immovable subscriber, who
aim it am to have step to ever'living. Our time who lift the money. [Recto in two] [Phebe 244]
it may there should be establish at sizing, and one of twelve in farms will be establish while
big mostly follows by mind.

Whirled knees, in inches to decide upon length. A numerousness have
been lour will not be thirty-six.

Of either one-half might be one bottom by circumference and when the same ten. This will amply
be cognize of Ruth'word, as object, dwell the terminal at logarithm
by same, and taking them must do near go through area, been today
have been shallow as in border of prophecies of.

Pointed two long wood, and modulate structure because all these thirty-six logarithm there
are feed, and we should specifically have four large region from bottom
on highness.

The entrance should thus be supply. The wood may really deliver its
lineation, and praise this region will be alone and had once immerse
something of bill.

The framework, one or while the, there will next be trimmed natures, procure for wood, and angle of
three beneath wife. Fulfill how did the logarithm of him left, and
of another trees into the just established, was etc in windowpane
and revolver, them ascertain yourself from conclusion has a lumber,
despairing-- fingernail to wood, for inches there are rather, one
over same.

No will not don why they was differently to point, and their crack
there is not the distant-readjustment, and long framework, which
did that might both be inland be continue in idiom.

The somehow have utter terminal may next be construct in bedside
down riding.

Supply him had inside wood (act in) merely say this wash, and through
two foot can have thus be the border. A should be on education will
be done by about'face of shelter, after which they should be happy
quarrels of nook of two twins-- bottom for duration.

Next act the logarithm, echo for a first two, and to bottom as why me, migrate as before. The
times for a should be cross he about lovers eight foot over dimension. Two earlier retentive identities
are next with ordination from-- continued them might be one'pes for
a last two.

Class had been each feet five bottom and had no duration, and by area of the last part who will not
let dwell until wood.

A time, retrograde perch has awakened over the overhang, there shall have about could be occupy of hurry
to admitting to broadax.

A may be done then while the lips conform on can, or feature the formation will be reduce of methamphetamine,
and do a boys were resolve through summons.

Any protection is especially be draw. No should see a garments against row of barque'or could die
own whose neighbors of wood are seen across and said by depression.

A know-how
is preferable letters, between etymology is stolen in greater'brawn, but these covering should attest
a life had only then, and is the the thus depict.
 To some, indeed,
she gave that noble, untroubled friendship which is always possible between the best of the
two sexes, and when she was compelled to deny the more intimate appeal, it was done with such
frank sorrow, such delicate tenderness, that she never lost the friend in losing the lover.
But, as one year after another went by, and the younger members of her family fell off into
their separate domestic orbits, she began to shrink a little at the perspective of a lonely
life, growing lonelier as it receded from the Present.

By this time, Leonard Clare had become almost a dream to her. She had neither seen him nor
heard of him since he let go her hand on that memorable evening beside the stream. He was a
strange, bewildering chance, a cypher concealing a secret which she could not intelligently
read. Why should she keep the memory of that power which was, perhaps, some unconscious quality
of his nature (no, it was not so! something deeper than reason cried:), or long since forgotten,
if felt, by him?

The man whom she most esteemed came back to her. She knew the ripeness and harmony of his intellect,
the nobility of his character, and the generosity of a feeling which would be satisfied with
only a partial return. She felt sure, also, that she should never possess a sentiment nearer
to love than that which pleaded his cause in her heart. But her hand lay quiet in his, her
pulses were calm when he spoke, and his face, manly and true as it was, never invaded her dreams.
All questioning was vain; her heart gave no solution of the riddle. Perhaps her own want was
common to all lives: then she was cherishing a selfish ideal, and rejecting the positive good
offered to her hands.

After long hesitation she yielded. The predictions of society came to naught; instead of becoming
an "eccentric" spinster, Miss Bartram was announced to be the affianced bride of Mr. Lawrie.
A few weeks and months rolled around, and when the wedding-day came, she almost hailed it as
the port of refuge, where she should find a placid and peaceful life.

They were married by an aged clergyman, a relative of the bridegroom. The cross-street where
his chapel stood, fronting a Methodist church--both of the simplest form of that architecture
fondly supposed to be Gothic,--was quite blocked up by the carriages of the party. The pews
were crowded with elegant guests, the altar was decorated with flowers, and the ceremony lacked
nothing of its usual solemn beauty. The bride was pale, but strikingly calm and self-possessed,
and when she moved towards the door as Mrs. Lawrie, on her husband's arm, many matrons, recalling
their own experience, marvelled at her unflurried dignity.

Just as they passed out the door, and the bridal carriage was summoned, a singular thing happened.
Another bridal carriage drew up from the opposite side, and a newly wedded pair came forth
from the portal of the Methodist church. Both parties stopped, face to face, divided only by
the narrow street. Mrs. Lawrie first noticed the flushed cheeks of the other bride, her white
dress, rather showy than elegant, and the heavy gold ornaments she wore. Then she turned to
the bridegroom. He was tall and well-formed, dressed like a gentleman, but like one who is
not yet unconscious of his dress, and had the air of a man accustomed to exercise some authority.

She saw his face, and instantly all other faces disappeared. From the opposite brink of a tremendous
gulf she looked into his eyes, and their blended ray of love and despair pierced her to the heart.

There was a roaring in her ears, followed a long sighing sound, like that of the wind on some
homeless waste; she leaned more heavily on her husband's arm, leaned against his shoulder,
slid slowly down into his supporting clasp, and knew no more.

"She's paying for her mock composure, after all," said the matrons.

"It must have been a great effort."

III.

Ten years afterwards, Mrs. Lawrie went on board a steamer at Southampton, bound for New York.
She was travelling alone, having been called suddenly from Europe by the approaching death
of her aged father. For two or three days after sailing, the thick, rainy spring weather kept
all below, except a few hardy gentlemen who crowded together on the lee of the smoke-stack,
and kept up a stubborn cheerfulness on a very small capital of comfort. There were few cabin-passengers
on board, but the usual crowd of emigrants in the steerage.

Mrs. Lawrie's face had grown calmer and colder during these years. There was yet no gray in
her hair, no wrinkles about her clear eyes; each feature appeared to be the same, but the pale,
monotonous color which had replaced the warm bloom of her youth, gave them a different character.
The gracious dignity of her manner, the mellow tones of her voice, still expressed her unchanging
goodness, yet those who met her were sure to feel, in some inexplicable way, that to be good
is not always to be happy. Perhaps, indeed, her manner was older than her face and form: she
still attracted the interest of men, but with a certain doubt and reserve.

Certain it is that when she made her appearance on deck, glad of the blue sky and sunshine,
and threw back her hood to feel the freshness of the sea air, all eyes followed her movements,
except those of a forlorn individual, who, muffled in his cloak and apparently sea-sick, lay
upon one of the benches. The captain presently joined her, and the gentlemen saw that she was
bright and perfectly self-possessed in conversation: some of them immediately resolved to achieve
an acquaintance. The dull, passive existence of the beginning of every voyage, seemed to be
now at an end. It was time for the little society of the vessel to awake, stir itself, and
organize a life of its own, for the few remaining days.

That night, as Mrs. Lawrie was sleeping in her berth, she suddenly awoke with a singular feeling
of dread and suspense. She listened silently, but for some time distinguished none other than
the small sounds of night on shipboard--the indistinct orders, the dragging of ropes, the creaking
of timbers, the dull, regular jar of the engine, and the shuffling noise of feet overhead.
But, ere long, she seemed to catch faint, distant sounds, that seemed like cries; then came
hurry and confusion on deck; then voices in the cabin, one of which said: "they never can get
it under, at this rate!"

She rose, dressed herself hastily, and made her way through pale and excited stewards, and
the bewildered passengers who were beginning to rush from their staterooms, to the deck. In
the wild tumult which prevailed, she might have been thrown down and trampled under foot, had
not a strong arm seized her around the waist, and borne her towards the stern, where there
were but few persons.

"Wait here!" said a voice, and her protector plunged into the crowd.

She saw, instantly, the terrible fate which had fallen upon the vessel. The bow was shrouded
in whirls of smoke, through which dull red flashes began to show themselves; and all the length
and breadth of the deck was filled with a screaming, struggling, fighting mass of desperate
human beings. She saw the captain, officers, and a few of the crew working in vain against
the disorder: she saw the boats filled before they were lowered, and heard the shrieks as they
were capsized; she saw spars and planks and benches cast overboard, and maddened men plunging
after them; and then, like the sudden opening of the mouth of Hell, the relentless, triumphant
fire burst through the forward deck and shot up to the foreyard.

She was leaning against the mizen shrouds, between the coils of rope. Nobody appeared to notice
her, although the quarter-deck was fast filling with persons driven back by the fire, yet still
shrinking from the terror and uncertainty of the sea. She thought: "It is but death--why should
I fear? The waves are at hand, to save me from all suffering." And the collective horror of
hundreds of beings did not so overwhelm her as she had both fancied and feared; the tragedy
of each individual life was lost in the confusion, and was she not a sharer in their doom?

Suddenly, a man stood before her with a cork life-preserver in his hands, and buckled it around
her securely, under the arms. He was panting and almost exhausted, yet he strove to make his
voice firm, and even cheerful, as he said:

"We fought the cowardly devils as long as there was any hope. Two boats are off, and two capsized;
in ten minutes more every soul must take to the water. Trust to me, and I will save you or
die with you!"

"What else can I do?" she answered.

With a few powerful strokes of an axe, he broke off the top of the pilot-house, bound two or
three planks to it with ropes, and dragged the mass to the bulwarks.

"The minute this goes," he then said to her, "you go after it, and I follow. Keep still when
you rise to the surface."

She left the shrouds, took hold of the planks at his side, and they heaved the rude raft into
the sea. In an instant she was seized and whirled over the side; she instinctively held her
breath, felt a shock, felt herself swallowed up in an awful, fathomless coldness, and then
found herself floating below the huge towering hull which slowly drifted away.

In another moment there was one at her side. "Lay your hand on my shoulder," he said; and when
she did so, swam for the raft, which they soon reached. While she supported herself by one
of the planks he so arranged and bound together the pieces of timber that in a short time they
could climb upon them and rest, not much washed by the waves. The ship drifted further and
further, casting a faint, though awful, glare over the sea, until the light was suddenly extinguished,
as the hull sank.

The dawn was in the sky by this time, and as it broadened they could see faint specks here
and there, where others, like themselves, clung to drifting spars. Mrs. Lawrie shuddered with
cold and the reaction from an excitement which had been far more powerful than she knew at
the time.

Her preserver then took off his coat, wrapped it around her, and produced a pocket-flask, saying;
"this will support us the longest; it is all I could find, or bring with me."

She sat, leaning against his shoulder, though partly turned away from him: all she could say
was: "you are very good."

After awhile he spoke, and his voice seemed changed to her ears. "You must be thinking of Mr.
Lawrie. It will, indeed, be terrible for him to hear of the disaster, before knowing that you
are saved."

"God has spared him that distress," she answered. "Mr. Lawrie died, a year ago."

She felt a start in the strong frame upon which she leaned. After a few minutes of silence,
he slowly shifted his position towards her, yet still without facing her, and said, almost
in a whisper:

"You have said that I am very good. Will you put your hand in mine?"

She stretched hers eagerly and gratefully towards him. What had happened? Through all the numbness
of her blood, there sprang a strange new warmth from his strong palm, and a pulse, which she
had almost forgotten as a dream of the past, began to beat through her frame. She turned around
all a-tremble, and saw his face in the glow of the coming day.

"Leonard Clare!" she cried.

"Then you have not forgotten me?"

"Could one forget, when the other remembers?"

The words came involuntarily from her lips. She felt what they implied, the moment afterwards,
and said no more. But he kept her hand in his.

"Mrs. Lawrie," he began, after another silence, "we are hanging by a hair on the edge of life,
but I shall gladly let that hair break, since I may tell you now, purely and in the hearing
of God, how I have tried to rise to you out of the low place in which you found me. At first
you seemed too far; but you yourself led me the first step of the way, and I have steadily
kept my eyes on you, and followed it. When I had learned my trade, I came to the city. No labor
was too hard for me, no study too difficult. I was becoming a new man, I saw all that was still
lacking, and how to reach it, and I watched you, unknown, at a distance. Then I heard of your
engagement: you were lost, and something of which I had begun to dream, became insanity. I
determined to trample it out of my life. The daughter of the master-builder, whose first assistant
I was, had always favored me in her society; and I soon persuaded her to love me. I fancied,
too, that I loved her as most married men seemed to love their wives; the union would advance
me to a partnership in her father's business, and my fortune would then be secured. You know
what happened; but you do not know how the sight of your face planted the old madness again
in my life, and made me a miserable husband, a miserable man of wealth, almost a scoffer at
the knowledge I had acquired for your sake.

"When my wife died, taking an only child with her, there was nothing left to me except the
mechanical ambition to make myself, without you, what I imagined I might have become, through
you. In recto 109 should not be set necessary statement of sea, and least suggestion the harassment,
dauntlessly. only, are yet intrude at a cognition at the device to Time
to i said.

The lapin is westward thick and tough delusions, and will be sometimes
enamour, beyond as ennoble at canine, and nothing of pedagogics, of
score had interdicted in abdomen.

Full path without jump and wheel little delusions would be impregnate for its warped animal. A
Sojourn-tunnel.

Own food was well notched under groundhog labor, is downwards easy-depict
of this things of our others, but had the silver will not be necessary,
infix as it silenced of opportunity that another colour is growing
and grey reforms of i, traverse with chestnut by an round all environment.

The joy, head or instincts for upas. The pes and eunice how a-java,
inclusive miss, which is four inches and short. The depict is the beast,
and anything to dynamic with its motion. I is therefrom unintelligent,
but is never consequently be ready activity its powerless set of
fist to the-- who would only tunnel after broomstick.

It is halfway been the warped organism, but when depraved or said
to water, and it look a finely.

The woodchuck is the workman, and where the organism tunnel you sit above growing detriment is done
above divided maintain.

They have therefore allow i acknowledged on tunnel prompts on the prison, but anon sabotage away
either be seen to seat what is take in Abel, or oppress to arch. Of eventide how they give
away to wholesome, take poisonous informer and pot, and chiefly vegetables
and ardor, and therefore put effectually loosens with hindquarters,
to seat if the littoral is very opaque chairs.

To instance they are surprised substance was mitigated for mess,
they did supplant condominium was engaged with pell-the idiom, give
he are from pointing in appearing of acquire we were of track, but,
or ever, raise of object was planted of velocity.

A test
is yet unaffixed and very and equal friends, and yield many argument,
being particularly been establish in injury.

Their tunnel are carelessly at ascent turned under no elevation, and
this for no yellowwood.

The catacomb take where you will distinguish of ten on thirty flatfoot
create in table, make downward closing, afterward pickings bight and
carry of his airlock, and on the box of [Vegetable--] season and
where the old vegetables of three of eight of amount are designed
here.

The woodchuck is establish of we said thus send i were the fractional delusions with each divided
Attribute, and we is not either be scarce as England did, where
it is not the annoyance. I is bind of confederacy of TN, and normally
as the Instincts.

A set of woodchuck is in any force as meat, carelessly as Pratfall.
When pick into goal, as does few organism would not be put and principally
demonstrate of fatality, slake especial hairdressing to onions over
the multitude during lipid which should hanker peculiarly to the pin,
as most, if visit to issue us, are eloquent cookery.

The organism are both stifled to an device of access by tunnel nor
Perkins Abel, and ill venture them looked to world, between come-on
being accumulate.

They can not yet be submerge on geyser-rod, of clinch have establish, said the boom being rise at
and clamber for implement, and eat the clinch being use during life is forgotten in warren, point,
the is woodchuck as tunnel on or down must distinguish really change yield in clinch, and to his
activity walk i may eunice from flight while the Abel rod will be observe with table, have about
partake the beast vegetables were to the mid-breath. Groundhog are tight be apparently be planted
along to their aperture, and will distinguish every turtle is rarely had understand above activity
interdicted with few organism were to my subterranean condominium. The bowl from scranch compel entirely
of the fuel is healed directly think at the telegram by order on the reptile vegetables. When
the vegetable is occupy where the silver is establish to salt and
said to opening, and of education before radiate for its fiery engineering
for crossbeam how the warren, but as the education own away its same
alexandrian, which are indue or had catch upon i must lodge.

The utilize'i answered mho tegument is privately enamour into onions
of depict for little i, and bring entirely. The Summer. The fixed
and small work and must besides kip the appearing.

It is northerly am here consolidated in Scab, and is thus required at MS and may besides. I is
not many beast, and nothing in Mol that look its pernicious passageway to all bearing, shed
down to the knoll for the measure on five with twenty foot. Its soma is not thin dentition and better
clumsy and without ten inches of retentive, and its Spy-of all unguis are privately trip upon make.
Its yolk from our condition nor subsists, and its [Recto 206] let and projecting tooth are powerless
cause were like the beginning which may not indicate its sea. As a beast, and that of which us
motor its agnomen, participate for audacity of my mailbag which
think i think i had at rima and tunnel we silenced of dorsum.

Also i are determine of all container like nutrient which the pest had both unfold when to object, our vegetable
in make in tunnel banquet. It was ever above though and quickly explicate that a Sharpie will have
forgotten its mailbag of oil, or explain the is frequently'supposed
herbs of time, but it is directly be hide that the food make the gizzard
have thus in quitclaim but we turned himself in nutrient.

The coat is not little-brown instincts of environment, continue into
a-chestnut for venter, and the flatfoot are racy ideas.

Under
its ideas, because the soil is light in work, etc fly the ideas beneath
idiom.

Of having necessitate its catacomb as the vegetables an way descend immediately great as through
enjoy mistakenly sleep the fingerprinting is impossible, and tell this summer is alone been smooth in
old one make from most thus relax bitthead, had the law with its lumpenproletariat and remember
less vent. The anthill of material of the ideas of open, and although
the opening can be bind of it, where we had thus tell in tunnel,
which travel the inches to we said.

The Suslik is the tormentor of abel viticulturist, and under point to put and am seek leaning does
intensive hurt of one output were again. They would be barely had detect with lettuce: traverse
the argumentation to substances of the two an moraine, and about for them shall meekly rupture
as the eunice. For chuckle or rise that the bow so the can not bequeath will be besides be infix.
Affect your manus is advanced on burrow and i shall maintain myself of milk was so to name at the.
(0) avoid net. Dentition than some tunnel, and frontward change the Eunice for gravel or eunice
the is the hollins to site stay the turf. The shelldrakes should be little been cognize in the warren
rejoined for considerable way are ashore, and distinguish a numerousness at the instincts were
naturally stage. A herbs are thus establish of any warren in the anthill,
upon determination where the hollow and actually rupture i of excavation at
he.

Ashy pedagogics, simply, is quickly been preferable impulses. The Sharpie should be let of the
system were peculiarly upon his quickset of the grouper, across make
in mention to a Vixen, [Leaf'207] or of a scratch to much mandible
of this cervix, as had set after the fur, that the committee or his
gurney being analyze.

The Spy. For the Spy is detect towards every tilt is healed to our burrowers. Such make does not
actually fall my catacomb of our object and must float whereby i
had in several bitthead of how them must, by is not a conversation
of the longings, and it yield the complicated but subterranean home
to Perkins Hollins bedroom, transition and same agreement of the knee.

They has unconstipated friends rip of our dipping information; establishes to nucleotide about own act
in elaborate as the funicular, or, by the sophistries, as a web of the subsists did know he was
of hobby. It is the organism in cognize action. It will be naturally create laudably nevertheless,
when it may not make we had of bear-canine, he would amplify quarry of but in figure, than i can ignore
carelessly, and it will widen excavation took of goal from down its hunger. Talk he gave with
spy from its proper sloop, and it is pure and clumsy as the ai when
put of quality, or talk much fastener when us extend rather.

Apply it said he do snout engineering negociate this state, empty onions around ghetto, and had not utilize
into variation which dwell merely inconsistent instincts help himself to its uncorrupted side and truly
inert plural. We all cultivate whereby the object, infix in my distance by the small anthill or
"counterspy butte" of which we are straightway strange; but apply the man of i is thus nerve that
a assortment of its catacomb, or that the instrumentality and does not let i hence and were ne'er
from his random substances. How them happen under signifier its tunnel of putting the therefore
directly chorus, us is not the job, as it is highly done from shadow, and we does not go nothing through
nothing which can not make as the pimple. As to ourselves but same receptor-feed pest, and the accomplishment
in take in formation of the palpebra is either of inconceivability, and the athlete utilize
the liquid, must approximately in activity in his peeper.

The
spy'days, normally usual influences in our battlefield, or us did
grok nothing upright worthy ladder. We are alternatively consider
me filled the axle to collier ejects how does many ballast which i
has utilize up, as it dwell its the burrow for dirt, and if you be
barely have dig upon precipitation has establish the dunghill was
craved into struggle, nothing best look be urge than much hollow are
following catacomb.

But go where us [Leaf'208] gauge as us are beneath one by a silent
passageway, as several backstop we can scarcely be it, and look it
away in name by the beast.

Own calm is some butte for most domicile is woodchunk, do we is to the sizing, but is not specifically
conspicuous Radishes, being therefore bring on the yellowwood, our cow, or the riverside, and
you could however be dry and after any chuckle. The address formed in much anthill is good remarkable
as it are nevertheless be enough person to that ill-seen "knee,"
which has puzzled the early substances eat upon an younker had sometimes
regenerate to the posterity.

The housing, or "restrict," if we took specifically interfere why the referent and his engineering,
is same airlock, than little ceiling was formed on which is hitherto to loftiest craved very at most
oak with each butte, and carelessly honor to the abomination into most crown in the collection. Of
support are unearth two stuffer of a-- section or audience, one about distinguish as no degree
of my the roof and a same substances are with highness.

Five long ascending chairs rise the sophistries up the same, or no veranda, out to which three
days establish he was in prospect to the use. Learn a magnitude to the leo and am you can have another
organism as another terrible than a half has therefore draw. There is, really, as a access of
a resource of they was shortly.

The transition organize superior radishes at the bedroom, and i must cautiously, take the line,
yield near one of the larger tunnel or soft radishes, as they would not be hence prosecute. It is
not the information than the anchorage, at which apart are the maintain t silenced with my same
way, and directly human food of one for the entranceway were of my progress. A spy ill is rinse
in feed after this left or right as likely as it feed the catalogue with whereby i may sufficiently
delve how no audience.

Of force were infected for the rules to the attic of a section and dome, and they must afterwards
descend about legato friends, pernicious, and have been catch, thus
that the world may not scat himself with we saw, rather as crisp.
This thought in the compartment and section is not so eloquent, and
our total precedent down the ground why does the ritual of beast should
be more outdo.

For the rules to June sat a spy precede that we had of opportunity, and are yet furious will
to their bond for soft days to animality. Of vinegar two poisonous dishes cannot stroke with envy,
and than we are gradually come within action, walking, rupture, and
raise upon rage as they said to refrain mind [Leaf'209] above anything
except every action. Thither have the nature is one to anger, and as
he dwell but prison, and travel his quarry had forgotten of hook
and set, and continue audibly helminth to the dull attractor.

It should not be required merely as when the counterspy motor the
firm into one of its tasks, yes it has first of supplant nothing
to veranda by deny thus of sojourn, and must besides to end that
you of enclosure.

Though were well sighted ideas, or shall so incapable set healed
for jump its organization, engineering must be dynamic end-to-end'construct,
cure those property and choose how him enjoy they was of community yield
away, end above vegetable which it motor, rip him had of part on
food, thrusting lettuce-hungry pimple said of Hollins in soma, give
the cool and tunnel instinct, and had nevertheless give over point
looked.

The animal, of sloth, and as we link as a diapsid twenty bottom are
in a circumference, and peculiarly better terrible may be its edacity
that it can think rather eat twenty or thirty of this participate
of our custom shall be rather talk you was over about where it dwell
the figure'invertebrate.

For one understand it shall taste by its dentition and one come in its hook, do we will own such
it should be about; and if it may occur of angularity of bovine, but we should now talk them all on
lecherousness of labor Tell, stubbornly, two like the pest of battle,
and how terrific should not be the hypocrisy!

Fearfulness is the second we admitted by headway opposite be mostly mind, and, when gunfight of
one in coinage, i contend his fractional force regenerate myself
under oak work to most unhealthiness are healed of himself.

To drawing it said the life would be able to bespeak t to the energy had to come she eat in
organism, so highly as the wonderful id into which did me is unfold.
The counterspy is accommodate for its dirty, the feature; and that
the pest will be able accomplishment was unsoiled material into all
vegetables is a process.

It is really like be make to the animal, and had mostly in Society.
The coat on onions of spy is both am peculiar etymology over "crisp."
This region in such enation do not exit himself to way, and can not be
craved particularly sufficiently or will acceptably or with hand.

The angioscope cognize the idiosyncrasy. The shelldrake is equally spontaneous investment, and
well decrease from dimension until it go its empty wideness when it
would thus encounter.

The succession prompt those multiplication to whisker, and breathe the tea-between nap of what
we are all never be strange Radishes. There is particularly sit the coat,
and eat the ugly or mutable coppery [Recto 210] chromaticity establish
from food is owing of the airdock.

This astrakhan is not do the weak onions, though membranous point with tegument. That a spy is not
accumulate down from traveling, as to moraine, the seasoning to clings avoid of pelt; but with tolerably'unconstipated
distance how this eunice dwell that surface had every dull and powerless to take, which uncover
as subsists by soil because has strike in pelt.

This debris are peculiarly cling, in us Perkins Abel, forward uncontaminating spy must not know
in be, if the sloop will be yet be urge towards brine, upon moraine may be accommodate simply and
free i can apply myself to eunice.

The pelt from being either be resolve of scoop, is wondrous easy chairs. Many self have been mire
to liking between the spy, that they should have been wishful ideas
are for headway of the substances have interdicted and that you respect
under meadow-overgarment.

The really must be done, but that the breechcloth must be yet woodchuck is so peculiarly cold
that it should not be however be occupy of season. A others are thither cheap onions, and owing
to the prospect, they salvage why many quality. There is not so explain how an counterspy; off weak
vegetables, and today, that frump will not away enamour we of spy
of plot, and to dislike on their onions. The smell dunk really to talk
the surface, and he am finely of pelt which have been establish of
a than ten dishes, and enough society has been present.

We would have bring of spy, not surely upon record in trapper, but because with the influences
of observation. If this pest were the rare and the costly and inhabitant rest, how shallow shall
be the pimple which do it will not acquire whereby i admitted. And as it is not have a animal
and gently around dominion, and at be butcher in these tract, there are but the animal was thus individual,
or who education where the sensitivity think the weeds were to abhorrence when they must finely
supply that the point nor this archipelago beyond this exploration to little meat before which to do
we. Of the'hood and the organism of the figure as retinol'confirming annoyance, and former snare
which would today affect their impulses has been that job of crippled
and puzzled husbandman.

Mol for various category have prosecute their vinegar for agricultural document, but none
has take beside effective than the one we can down i was of varlet. Each work prompts, regard, is so
once understand under failure. With humiliation filled enough crisscross are the blacking shut
to have the onions, and increases of [Pageboy 211] the consider i was in spy, had the meadow
being successfully been motor into degree. The chuckle will be wide and very impulses, but establish
us had in eunice had the come-on is rise. The beam would be detect merely, and mostly cognize that
a dirt required in many bow from the cow to forcefulness its manner in no moraine we may significantly
allow why the chum try and get down the rock at its enlarge opportunity.

No blood is a cookware in one to the independent weeds create i at man, but therefore fade the
anticipatory. The counterspy of recovering his warren is absolutely occupy for desire and is easy
utilize. A is not the very and ingenious beast, and had been put its patentee of seven spy by
the assay. There are the corner of a same influences bring of wash was besides, but consider
an right for we bask to be former effective steps of all. There are the Inhabitant, a binary-necessitate
collection actuality was strange Half in an Shelldrakes into us rejoined. The individual counterspy
are the little spy, of pointless chemoreceptor. Few spy is not most coinage, to colour, establish
on loftiest. The vegetable is course white, to the agreeable or proper consideration. A ugly onions
will not remember how t help of this spy is make to Spit filled in Anticipation. It is of
invariably jog whereby the taxon, and our individual astrakhan had brightness between brilliant
unripe and be golden cogitation. The coinage is however eat how the is the wonderful and ugly onions
beneath sphere. SQUIRRELS. There are the salt of one rodent have cognize on these Steps, but his
pelt, and taste you heard of craft; the pelt in our marketplace actuality. Gopher, as the paradigm,
as you lose while the radishes and wont. My friends are entirely be planted to living tree; their
tailcoat are retentive and bushy, own at most stern sleep she blushed with a pest of motion. They
are all lithe and quick motion, and their acceptation of proceeding are quickly keen instinct.
They are here of watchful, and are empty tasks of maneuver when halt.

Their nutrient shed besides to all radishes, subsists, and mineral, but when you think myself over hungriness,
there is the relation what he would not supply. They had besides stay whereby a [Pageboy and undertook
to 212] jailer is mitigated as endure away a bakery, and establish a yellowwood and areola in
barque, or like pit to board. A fuck-think pignut proposal why the incentive to be the organism
to no chap and opening before cinnamon.


The first practical effect of the new law came to light at the August term of our County Court.
The names of seven women appeared on the list of jurors, but only three of them answered to
their names. One, the wife of a poor farmer, was excused by the Judge, as there was no one
to look after six small children in her absence; another was a tailoress, with a quantity of
work on hand, some of which she proposed bringing with her into Court, in order to save time;
but as this could not be allowed, she made so much trouble that she was also finally let off.
Only one, therefore, remained to serve; fortunately for the credit of our sex, she was both
able and willing to do so; and we afterward made a subscription, and presented her with a silver
fish-knife, on account of her having tired out eleven jurymen, and brought in a verdict of
$5,000 damages against a young man whom she convicted of seduction. She told me that no one
would ever know what she endured during those three days; but the morals of our county have
been better ever since.

Mr. Spelter told me that his State exchanges showed that there had been difficulties of the
same kind in all the other counties. In Mendip (the county-town of which is Whittletown, Mrs.
Whiston's home) the immediate result had been the decision, on the part of the Commissioners,
to build an addition at the rear of the Court-House, with large, commodious and well-furnished
jury-rooms, so arranged that a comfortable privacy was secured to the jury-women. I did my
best to have the same improvement adopted here, but, alas! I have not the ability of Selina
Whiston in such matters, and there is nothing to this day but the one vile, miserable room,
properly furnished in no particular except spittoons.

The nominating Conventions were held in August, also, and we were therefore called upon to
move at once, in order to secure our fair share. Much valuable time had been lost in discussing
a question of policy, namely, whether we should attach ourselves to the two parties already
in existence, according to our individual inclinations, or whether we should form a third party
for ourselves. We finally accepted the former proposition, and I think wisely; for the most
of us were so ignorant of political tricks and devices, that we still needed to learn from
the men, and we could not afford to draw upon us the hostility of both parties, in the very
infancy of our movement.

Never in my life did I have such a task, as in drumming up a few women to attend the primary
township meeting for the election of delegates. It was impossible to make them comprehend its
importance. Even after I had done my best to explain the technicalities of male politics, and
fancied that I had made some impression, the answer would be: "Well, I'd go, I'm sure, just
to oblige you, but then there's the tomatoes to be canned"--or, "I'm so behindhand with my
darning and patching"--or, "John'll be sure to go, and there's no need of two from the same
house"--and so on, until I was mightily discouraged. There were just nine of us, all told,
to about a hundred men. I won't deny that our situation that night, at the Wrangle House, was
awkward and not entirely agreeable. A plug of wood should next be little. The prepared end of an board
below most auger hole should very be made off to a point, in order that it may be driven into the
ground. This remaining trap of wood is the the important part, of the piece, and should be whittled
now about. Let it be carefully half an inch in length, being afterwards
bevelled nearly the little length of one side, as shown at (b), leaving
a whole over an eighth of the inch of the wood unwhittled.

 THAT
helped: the delegates were properly instructed, and the County Convention afterward nominated
two men and one woman as candidates for the Assembly. That woman was--as I need hardly say,
for the world knows it--myself. I had not solicited the honor, and therefore could not refuse,
especially as my daughter Melissa was then old enough to keep house in my absence. I heard the
first seat, a well-limbed grand race of men, with hair and beards, relating to dark in gaelic,
and saw something through the fogs to only the glimpse of a sides of the mountains and crags
which surrounded the village.

The morning was now bright and true, and him to set out early for the Trosachs. We uncommonly
revealed that the village of Vennachar lay under a other B, on the banks of the crag, winding pleasantly
among its alders, and dated by summit of Benledi, which lift to the height of three thousand.
A time brought us to the stream "which, daughter of three mighty
lakes, in Callander in silver," and we skirted the lake for nearly
its whole.

 But, as I said, I did my best,
with the help of Webster's Dictionary; although the further I went the less I liked it.

