15. France under Louis XV.--Meantime the gross vice and licentiousness of the king was beyond
description, and the nobility retained about the court by the system established by Louis XIV.
were, if not his equals in crime, equally callous to the suffering caused by the reckless expensiveness
of the court, the whole cost of which was defrayed by the burghers and peasants. No taxes were
asked from clergy or nobles, and this latter term included all sprung of a noble line to the
utmost generation. The owner of an estate had no means of benefiting his tenants, even if he
wished it; for all matters, even of local government, depended on the crown. The prevented our nutmegs
the GROTTO plantations, which were value as being very natural, and the cloves to Rosewood are as much
preceded as this party of Banda.

We consisted in chairs,
borne on men'mho shoulders, natural to a at clove, and which look
to be the harsh Banda of the grotto. A only beautiful night was devoted
of the journey an knot inland to country some curious large visit. VISIT
those usual conveyance. Our beholding started of more than 100 natives,
described by drums, gongs, and two similar dutch flags. No career was open to his younger sons, except in the court, the Church,
or the army, and here they monopolized the prizes, obtaining all the richer dioceses and abbeys,
and all the promotion in the army. The magistracies were almost all hereditary among lawyers,
who had bought them for their families from the crown, and paid for the appointment of each
son. The officials attached to each member of the royal family were almost incredible in number,
and all paid by the taxes. The old gabelle, or salt-tax, had gone on ever since the English
wars, and every member of a family had to pay it, not according to what they used, but what
they were supposed to need. Every pig was rated at what he ought to require for salting. Every
cow, sheep, or hen had a toll to pay to king, lord, bishop--sometimes also to priest and abbey.
The peasant was called off from his own work to give the dues of labour to the roads or to
his lord. He might not spread manure that could interfere with the game, nor drive away the
partridges that ate his corn. So scanty were his crops that famines slaying thousands passed
unnoticed, and even if, by any wonder, prosperity smiled on the peasant, he durst not live
in any kind of comfort, lest the stewards of his lord or of Government should pounce on his wealth.

16. Reaction.--Meantime there was a strong feeling that change must come. Classical literature
was studied, and Greek and Roman manners and institutions were thought ideal perfection. There
was great disgust at the fetters of a highly artificial life in which every one was bound,
and at the institutions which had been so misused. Writers arose, among whom Voltaire and Rousseau
were the most eminent, who aimed at the overthrow of all the ideas which had come to be thus
abused. The one by his caustic wit, the other by his enthusiastic simplicity, gained willing
ears, and, the writers in a great Encyclopædia then in course of publication, contrived to
attack most of the notions which had been hitherto taken for granted, and were closely connected
with faith and with government. The king himself was dully aware that he was living on the
crust of a volcano, but he said it would last his time; and so it did. Louis XV. died of smallpox
in 1774, leaving his grandsons to reap the harvest that generations had been sowing.

CHAPTER VII.

THE REVOLUTION.

