In person Dr Proudie is a good-looking man; spruce and dapper, and very tidy. He is somewhat
below middle height, being about five feet four; but he makes up for the inches which he wants
by the dignity with which he carries those which he has. It is no fault of his own if he has
not a commanding eye, for he studies hard to assume it. His features are well formed, though
perhaps the sharpness of his nose may give to his face in the eyes of some people an air of
insignificance. If so, it is greatly redeemed by his mouth and chin, of which he is justly proud.

Dr Proudie may well be said to have been a fortunate man, for he was not born to wealth, and
he is now bishop of Barchester; but nevertheless he has his cares. He has a large family, of
whom the three eldest are daughters, now all grown up and fit for fashionable life; and he
has a wife. It is not my intention to breathe a word against the character of Mrs Proudie,
but still I cannot think that with all her virtues she adds much to her husband's happiness.
The truth is that in matters domestic she rules supreme over her titular lord, and rules with
a rod of iron. Nor is this all. Things domestic Dr Proudie might have abandoned to her, if
not voluntarily, yet willingly. But Mrs Proudie is not satisfied with such home dominion, and
stretches her power over all his movements, and will not even abstain from things spiritual.
In fact, the bishop is henpecked.

The archdeacon's wife, in her happy home at Plumstead, knows how to assume the full privileges
of her rank, and express her own mind in becoming tone and place. But Mrs Grantly's sway, if
sway she has, is easy and beneficent. She never shames her husband; before the world she is
a pattern of obedience; her voice is never loud, nor her looks sharp: doubtless she values
power, and has not unsuccessfully striven to acquire it; but she knows what should be the limits
of woman's rule.

Not so Mrs Proudie. This lady is habitually authoritative to all, but to her poor husband she
is despotic. Successful as has been his career in the eyes of the world, it would seem that
in the eyes of his wife he is never right. All hope of defending himself has long passed from
him; indeed he rarely even attempts self-justification; and is aware that submission produces
the nearest approach to peace which his own house can ever attain.

Mrs Proudie has not been able to sit at the boards and committees to which her husband has
been called by the state; nor, as he often reflects, can she make her voice heard in the House
of Lords. It may be that she will refuse to him permission to attend to this branch of a bishop's
duties; it may be that she will insist on his close attendance to his own closet. He has never
whispered a word on the subject to living ears, but he has already made his fixed resolve.
Should such an attempt be made he will rebel. Dogs have turned against their masters, and even
Neapolitans against their rulers, when oppression has been too severe. And Dr Proudie feels
within himself that if the cord be drawn too tight, he also can muster courage and resist.

The state of vassalage in which our bishop had been kept by his wife has not tended to exalt
his character in the eyes of his daughters, who assume in addressing their father too much
of that authority which is not properly belonging, at any rate, to them. They are, on the whole,
fine engaging young ladies. They are tall and robust like their mother, whose high cheek bones,
and--we may say auburn hair, they all inherit. They think somewhat too much of their grand
uncles, who have not hitherto returned the compliment by thinking much of them. But now that
their father is a bishop, it is probable that family ties will be drawn closer. Considering
their connection with the church, they entertain but few prejudices against the pleasures of
the world; and have certainly not distressed their parents, as too many English girls have
lately done, by any enthusiastic wish to devote themselves to the seclusion of a protestant
nunnery. Dr Proudie's sons are still at school.

One other marked peculiarity in the character of the bishop's wife must be mentioned. Though
not averse to the society and manners of the world, she is in her own way a religious woman;
and the form in which this tendency shows itself in her is by a strict observance of the Sabbatarian
rule. Dissipation and low dresses during the week are, under her control, atoned for by three
services, an evening sermon read by herself, and a perfect abstinence from any cheering employment
on Sunday. Unfortunately for those under her roof to whom the dissipation and low dresses are
not extended, her servants namely and her husband, the compensating strictness of the Sabbath
includes all. Woe betide the recreant housemaid who is found to have been listening to the
honey of a sweetheart in the Regent's Park, instead of the soul-stirring evening discourse
of Mr Slope. Not only is she sent adrift, but she is so sent with a character which leaves
her little hope of a decent place. Woe betide the six-foot hero who escorts Mrs Proudie to
her pew in red plush breeches, if he slips away to the neighbouring beer-shop, instead of falling
into the back seat appropriated to his use. Mrs Proudie has the eyes of Argus for such offenders.
Occasional drunkenness in the week may be overlooked, for six feet on low wages are hardly
to be procured if the morals are always kept at a high pitch; but not even for the grandeur
or economy will Mrs Proudie forgive a desecration of the Sabbath.

In such matters, Mrs Proudie allows herself to be often guided by that eloquent preacher, the
Rev. Mr Slope, and as Dr Proudie is guided by his wife, it necessarily follows that the eminent
man we have named has obtained a good deal of control over Dr Proudie in matters concerning
religion. Mr Slope's only preferment has hitherto been that of reader and preacher in a London
district church; and on the consecration of his friend the new bishop, he readily gave this
up to undertake the onerous but congenial duties of domestic chaplain to the bishop.

Mr Slope, however, on his first introduction must not be brought before the public at the tail
of a chapter.

CHAPTER IV

THE BISHOP'S CHAPLAIN

Of the Rev. Mr Slope's parentage I am not able to say much. I have heard it asserted that he
is lineally descended from that eminent physician who assisted at the birth of Mr T. Shandy,
and that in early years he added an 'e' to his name, for the sake of euphony, as other great
men have done before him. If this be so, I presumed he was christened Obadiah, for that is
his name, in commemoration of the conflict in which his ancestor so distinguished himself.
All my researches on the subject have, however, failed in enabling me to fix the date on which
the family changed its religion.

He had been a sizar at Cambridge, and had there conducted himself at any rate successfully,
for in due process of time he was an MA, having university pupils under his care. From thence
he was transferred to London, and became preacher at a new district church built on the confines
of Baker Street. He was in this position when congenial ideas on religious subjects recommended
him to Mrs Proudie, and the intercourse had become close and confidential.

Having been thus familiarly thrown among the Misses Proudie, it was more than natural that
some softer feeling than friendship should be engendered. There have been some passages of
love between him and the eldest hope, Olivia; but they have hitherto resulted in no favourable
arrangement. In truth, Mr Slope, having made a declaration of affection, afterwards withdrew
it on finding that the doctor had no immediate worldly funds with which to endow his child;
and it may easily be conceived that Miss Proudie, after such an announcement on his part, was
not readily disposed to receive any further show of affection. On the appointment of Dr Proudie
to the bishopric of Barchester, Mr Slope's views were, in truth, somewhat altered. Bishops,
even though they be poor, can provide for clerical children, and Mr Slope began to regret that
he had not been more disinterested. He no sooner heard the tidings of the doctor's elevation,
than he recommenced his siege, not violently, indeed, but respectfully, and at a distance.
Olivia Proudie, however, was a girl of spirit: she had the blood of two peers in her veins,
and, better still, she had another lover on her books; so Mr Slope sighed in vain; and the
pair soon found it convenient to establish a mutual bond of inveterate hatred.

It may be thought singular that Mrs Proudie's friendship for the young clergyman should remain
firm after such an affair; but, to tell the truth, she had known nothing of it. Though very
fond of Mr Slope herself, she had never conceived the idea that either of her daughters would
become so, and remembering that their high birth and social advantages, expected for them matches
of a different sort. Neither the gentleman nor the lady found it necessary to enlighten her.
Olivia's two sisters had each known of the affair, so had all the servants, so had all the
people living in the adjoining houses on either side; but Mrs Proudie had been kept in the dark.

Mr Slope soon comforted himself with the reflection that, as he had been selected as chaplain
to the bishop, it would probably be in his power to get the good things in the bishop's gift,
without troubling himself with the bishop's daughter; and he found himself able to endure the
pangs of rejected love. As he sat himself down in the railway carriage, confronting the bishop
and Mrs Proudie, as they started on their first journey to Barchester, he began to form in
his own mind a plan of his future life. He knew well his patron's strong points, but he knew
the weak ones as well. He understood correctly enough to what attempts the new bishop's high
spirit would soar, and he rightly guessed that public life would better suit the great man's
taste, than the small details of diocesan duty.

He, therefore, he, Mr Slope, would in effect be bishop of Barchester. Such was his resolve;
and to give Mr Slope his due, he had both courage and spirit to bear him out in his resolution.
He knew that he should have a hard battle to fight, for the power and patronage of the see
would be equally coveted by another great mind--Mrs Proudie would also choose to be bishop
of Barchester. Mr Slope, however, flattered himself that he could outmanoeuvre the lady. She
must live much in London, while he would always be on the spot. She would necessarily remain
ignorant of much while he would know everything belonging to the diocese. At first, doubtless,
he must flatter and cajole, perhaps yield in some things; but he did not doubt of ultimate
triumph. If all other means failed, he could join the bishop against the wife, inspire courage
into the unhappy man, lay an axe to the rock of the woman's power, and emancipate the husband.

Such were his thoughts as he sat looking at the sleeping pair in the railway carriage, and
Mr Slope is not the man to trouble himself with such thoughts for nothing. He is possessed
of more than average abilities, and is of good courage. Though he can stoop to fawn, and stoop
low indeed, if need be, he has still within him the power to assume the tyrant; and with the
power he has certainly the wish. His acquirements are not of the highest order, but such as
they are they are completely under control, and he knows the use of them. He is gifted with
a certain kind of pulpit eloquence, not likely, indeed, to be persuasive with men, but powerful
with the softer sex. In his sermons he deals greatly in denunciations, excites the minds of
his weaker hearers with a not unpleasant terror, and leaves an impression on their minds that
all mankind are in a perilous state, and all womankind too, except those who attend regularly
to the evening lectures in Baker Street. His looks and tones are extremely severe, so much
so that one cannot but fancy that he regards the greater part of the world as being infinitely
too bad for his care. As he walks through the streets, his very face denotes his horror of
the world's wickedness; and there is always an anathema lurking in the corner of his eye.

In doctrine, he, like his patron, is tolerant of dissent, if so strict a mind can be called
tolerant of anything. With Wesleyan-Methodists he has something in common, but his soul trembles
in agony at the iniquities of the Puseyites. His aversion is carried to things outward as well
as inward. His gall rises at a new church with a high pitched roof; a full-breasted black silk
waistcoat is with him a symbol of Satan; and a profane jest-book would not, in his view, more
foully desecrate the church seat of a Christian, than a book of prayer printed with red letters,
and ornamented with a cross on the back. Most active clergymen have their hobby, and Sunday
observances are his. Sunday, however, is a word which never pollutes his mouth--it is always
'the Sabbath'. The 'desecration of the Sabbath' as he delights to call it, is to him meat and
drink:--he thrives upon that as policemen do on the general evil habits of the community. It
is the loved subject of all his evening discourses, the source of all his eloquence, the secret
of his power over the female heart. To him, the revelation of God appears in that one law given
for Jewish observance. To him the New Testament is comparatively of little moment, for from
it can he draw no fresh authority for that dominion which he loves to exercise over at least
a seventh part of man's allotted time here below.

Mr Slope is tall, and not ill made. His feet and hands are large, as has ever been the case,
with all his family, but he has a broad chest and wide shoulders to carry off these excrescences,
and on the whole his figure is good. His countenance, however, is not specially prepossessing.
His hair is lank, and of a dull pale reddish hue. It is always formed into three straight lumpy
masses, each brushed with admirable precision, and cemented with much grease; two of them adhere
closely to the sides of his face, and the other lies at right angles above them. He wears no
whiskers, and is always punctiliously shaven. His face is nearly of the same colour as his
hair, though perhaps a little redder: it is not unlike beef,--beef, however, one would say,
of a bad quality. His forehead is capacious and high, but square and heavy, and unpleasantly
shining. His mouth is large, though his lips are thin and bloodless; and his big, prominent,
pale brown eyes inspire anything but confidence. His nose, however, is his redeeming feature:
it is pronounced straight and well-formed; though I myself should have liked it better if it
did not possess a somewhat spongy, porous appearance, as though it had been cleverly formed
out of a red coloured cork.

I never could endure to shake hands with Mr Slope. A cold, clammy perspiration always exudes
from him, the small drops are ever to be seen standing on his brow, and his friendly grasp
is unpleasant.

Such is Mr Slope--such is the man who has suddenly fallen into the midst of Barchester Close,
and is destined there to assume the station which has heretofore been filled by the son of
the late bishop. Think, oh, my meditative reader, what an associate we have here for those
comfortable prebendaries, those gentlemanlike clerical doctors, those happy well-used, well-fed
minor canons, who have grown into existence at Barchester under the kindly wings of Bishop Grantly!

But not as a mere associate for those does Mr Slope travel down to Barchester with the bishop
and his wife. He intends to be, if not their master, at least the chief among them. He intends
to lead, and to have followers; he intends to hold the purse strings of the diocese, and draw
round him an obedient herd of his poor and hungry brethren.

And here we can hardly fail to draw a comparison between the archdeacon and our new private
chaplain; and despite the manifold faults of the former, one can hardly fail to make it much
to his advantage.

Both men are eager, much too eager, to support and increase the power of their order. Both
are anxious that the world should be priest-governed, though they have probably never confessed
as much, even to themselves. Both begrudge any other kind of dominion held by man over man.
Dr Grantly, if he admits the Queen's supremacy in things spiritual, only admits it as being
due to the quasi priesthood conveyed on the consecrating qualities of her coronation; and he
regards things temporal as being by their nature subject to those which are spiritual. Mr Slope's
ideas of sacerdotal rule are of a quite different class. He cares nothing, one way or the other,
for the Queen's supremacy; these to his ears are empty words, meaning nothing. Forms he regards
but little, and such titular expressions of supremacy, consecration, ordination, and the like,
convey of themselves no significance to him. Let him be supreme who can. The temporal king,
judge, or gaoler, can work but on the body. The spiritual master, if he have the necessary
gifts, and can duly use them, has a wider field of empire. He works upon the soul. If he can
make himself be believed, he can be all powerful over those who listen. If he is careful to
meddle with none who are too strong in intellect, or too weak in flesh, he may indeed be supreme.
And such was the ambition of Mr Slope.

Dr Grantly interfered very little with the worldly doings of those who were in any way subject
to him. I do not mean to say that he omitted to notice misconduct among his clergy, immorality
in his parish, or omissions in his family; but he was not anxious to do so where the necessity
could be avoided. He was not troubled with a propensity to be curious, and as long as those
around him were tainted with no heretical leaning towards dissent, as long as they fully and
freely admitted the efficacy of Mother Church, he was willing that that mother should be merciful
and affectionate, prone to indulgence, and unwilling to chastise. He himself enjoyed the good
things of this world, and liked to let it be known that he did so. He cordially despised any
brother rector who thought harm of dinner-parties, or dreaded the dangers of a moderate claret-jug;
consequently dinner-parties and claret-jugs were common in the diocese. He liked to give laws
and to be obeyed in them implicitly, but he endeavoured that his ordinances should be within
the compass of the man, and not unpalatable to the gentleman. He had ruled among his clerical
neighbours now for sundry years, and as he had maintained his power without becoming unpopular,
it may be presumed that he had exercised some wisdom.

Of Mr Slope's conduct much cannot be said, as his grand career is yet to commence; but it may
be presumed that his tastes will be very different from those of the archdeacon. He conceives
it to be his duty to know all the private doings and desires of the flock entrusted to his
care. From the poorer classes he exacted and unconditional obedience to set rules of conduct,
and if disobeyed he has recourse, like his great ancestor, to the fulminations of an Ernulfus:
'Thou shalt be damned in thy going in and in thy coming out--in thy eating and thy drinking,'
&c &c &c. With the rich, experience has already taught him a different line of action is necessary.
Men in the upper walks of life do not mind being cursed, and the women, presuming that it be
done in delicate phrase, rather like it. But he has not, therefore, given up so important a
portion of believing Christians. With the men, indeed, he is generally at variance; they are
hardened sinners, on whom the voice of priestly charmer often falls in vain; but with the ladies,
old and young, firm and frail, devout and dissipated, he is, as he conceives, all powerful.
He can reprove faults with so much flattery, and utter censure in so caressing a manner, that
the female heart, if it glow with a spark of low church susceptibility, cannot withstand him.
In many houses he is thus an admired guest: the husbands, for their wives' sake, are fain to
admit him; and when once admitted it is not easy to shake him off. He has, however, a pawing,
greasy way with him, which does not endear him to those who do not value him for their souls'
sake, and he is not a man to make himself at once popular in a large circle such as is now
likely to surround him at Barchester.

CHAPTER V

A MORNING VISIT

It was known that Dr Proudie would immediately have to reappoint to the wardenship of the hospital
under the act of Parliament to which allusion has been made; but no one imagined that any choice
was left to him--no one for a moment thought that he could appoint any other than Mr Harding.
Mr Harding himself, when he heard how the matter had been settled, without troubling himself
much on the subject, considered it as certain that he would go back to his pleasant house and
garden. And though there would be much that was melancholy, nay, almost heartrending, in such
a return, he still was glad that it was to be so. His daughter might probably be persuaded
to return there with him. She had, indeed, all but promised to do so, though she still entertained
an idea that the greatest of mortals, that important atom of humanity, that little god upon
earth, Johnny Bold her baby, ought to have a house of his own over his head.

Such being the state of Mr Harding's mind in the matter, he did not feel any peculiar personal
interest in the appointment of Dr Proudie to the bishopric. He, as well as others at Barchester,
regretted that a man should be sent among them who, they were aware, was not of their way of
thinking; but Mr Harding himself was not a bigoted man on points of church doctrine, and he
was quite prepared to welcome Dr Proudie to Barchester in a graceful and becoming manner. He
had nothing to seek and nothing to fear; he felt that it behoved him to be on good terms with
his bishop, and he did not anticipate any obstacle that would prevent it.

In such a frame of mind he proceeded to pay his respects at the palace the second day after
the arrival of the bishop and his chaplain. But he did not go alone. Dr Grantly proposed to
accompany him, and Mr Harding was not sorry to have a companion, who would remove from his
shoulders the burden of conversation in such an interview. In the affair of the consecration
of Dr Grantly had been introduced to the bishop, and Mr Harding had also been there. He had,
however, kept himself in the background, and he was now to be presented to the great man for
the first time.		

The archdeacon's feelings were of a much stronger nature. He was not exactly the man to overlook
his own slighted claims, or to forgive the preference shown to another. Dr Proudie was playing
Venus to his Juno, and he was prepared to wage an internecine war against the owner of the
wished for apple, and all his satellites private chaplains, and others.

Nevertheless, it behoved him also to conduct himself towards the intruder as an old archdeacon
should conduct himself to an incoming bishop; and though he was well aware of all Dr Proudie's
abominable opinions as regarded dissenters, church reform, the hebdomadal council, and such
like; though he disliked the man, and hated the doctrines, still he was prepared to show respect
to the station of the bishop. So he and Mr Harding called together at the palace.

His lordship was at home, and the two visitors were shown through the accustomed hall into
the well-known room, where the good old bishop used to sit. The furniture had been bought at
a valuation, and every chair and table, every bookshelf against the wall, and every square
in the carpet, was as well known to each of them as their own bedrooms. Nevertheless they at
once felt that they were strangers there. The furniture was for the most part the same, yet
the place had been metamorphosed. A new sofa had been introduced, and horrid chintz affair,
most unprelatical and almost irreligious; such a sofa as never yet stood in the study of any
decent high church clergyman of the Church of England. The old curtains had also given away.
They had, to be sure, become dingy, and that which had been originally a rich and goodly ruby
had degenerated into a reddish brown. Mr Harding, however, thought the old reddish brown much
preferable to the gaudy buff-coloured trumpery moreen which Mrs Proudie had deemed good enough
for her husband's own room in the provincial city of Barchester.

Our friends found Dr Proudie sitting on the old bishop's chair, looking very nice in his new
apron; they found, too, Mr Slope standing on the hearthrug, persuasive and eager, just as the
archdeacon used to stand; but on the sofa they also found Mrs Proudie, an innovation for which
a precedent might be in vain be sought in all the annals of the Barchester bishopric!

There she was, however, and they could only make the best of her. The introductions were gone
through in much form. The archdeacon shook hands with the bishop and named Mr Harding, who
received such an amount of greeting as was due from a bishop to a precentor. His lordship then
presented them to his lady wife; the archdeacon first, with archidiaconal honours, and then
the precentor with diminished parade. After this Mr Slope presented himself. The bishop, it
is true, did mention his name, and so did Mrs Proudie too, in a louder tone; but Mr Slope took
it upon himself the chief burden of his own introduction. He had great pleasure in making himself
acquainted with Dr Grantly; he had heard much of the archdeacon's good works in that part of
the diocese in which his duties as archdeacon had been exercised (thus purposely ignoring the
archdeacon's hitherto unlimited dominion over the diocese at large). He was aware that his
lordship depended greatly on the assistance which Dr Grantly would be able to give him in that
portion of the diocese. He then thrust out his hand, and grasping that of his new foe, bedewed
it unmercifully. Dr Grantly in return bowed, looked stiff, contracted his eyebrows, and wiped
his hand with his pocket-handkerchief. Nothing abashed, Mr Slope then noticed the precentor,
and descended to the grade of the lower clergy. No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said -
but Braulio has compelling reasons.

Why I feel ashamed to say to you? We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes? In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less
luxurious yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll see how you get distracted there
at night. Your sister will be distracted too, because they provided chickens home their age and
will know more when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable to
accompany you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons, because it would suspect
he was a zealous suspicious, which would be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that
was a man incapable bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even when your husband
was often at my house, I am certain that, far from weigh is happy. There are quite a few subjects
of their position. Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science, everything, looking
so much to say that you know ... and until the present, that is in peace and without getting
angry, it has not helped. You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and do not want more.

- That is a virtue ...
but sterile.

When no goal is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my husband ... And I'll introduce
you ... Not worth the twentieth part of your Don Braulio. And yet ... how do you know wits! ... It
is a gyrfalcon ... I speak to you from the heart in hand. It is necessary that we remove your husband
of limbo in which they live. It has elements ... Why not to use them? To a philosopher, contempt
of the world and its vain pomp, would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out!

Who does not instill love?

You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too ...

-
So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great talent
seduced you: two reasons to use it in making you happy, so that vague
musings stop and see what matters.

I do not know what a writer has compared acute speculative philosopher with a mule that turns
a wheel, attached to it by the devil metaphysics, drawing water not drinking and not eating
the abundant grass and fresh vegetable that everywhere around you. Well, even worse when the
philosopher or the mule, following the mischievous comparison, has a partner and rope leads, not
left to graze either.

- My duty and my taste is to follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me to a barren desert
as a land of promise. For that, I do not think that is so deep in futile dreams, that ignores
the reality of life.

- Best case. I'm glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband. It has good looks.
Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that should be reformed
is the hat and the peaks the collar.

Are enormous. Why not make the cut that a bit?

- It's a whim. Insists on taking them well, but not stubborn in matters of importance.

- So ... good will.

With picks and all seems well ... very curiosito ... very neat ... Even the huge enormity
of the peaks seems to me as it gives some original character and severe. But, sir, where do you have
hidden the Count?

- What Count? - Asked Beatrice.

- Your most ardent admirer. Just saw you came to tell me that you
had arrived.

Singular is the fear that you have.

It is absurd in a man so fluent and so bold. Nothing ... I'm ashamed
to present to you, he has escaped.

Is delaying what you want most ... Thank God! Is already there.

Beatrice looked toward indicating his interlocutor, and saw that he approached the circle the beautiful
and elegant Count Alhedín.

- Is not it true that it is very gentle? - Asked the countess.

Beatriz made a funny face that meant nothing.

- And then - said the countess - if you saw how good and how simple and how sir!

Beatriz said nothing either to corroborate these praises.

Here came the Count, and San Teódulo was presented on Beatrice and her sister and Don Braulio.

It was the Count of recent school and last breeding, which boasts
of spending little regard with women, or if it was, could distinguish
occasions and people, and knowing he would not win with bold and sharply
folded down on its prey, was to cut and shy in the first moments.

He merely said some polite words to each of the two sisters, without too close to them, and
above all, without incurring the insolent vulgarity, in which now incur often men, reaching
out to the ladies just know them forcing them to slights or all of a sudden come to amicable
terms of confidence.

Then looked the most natural way to start a conversation with Don Braulio, and as if a man so formal
and weight as him, he entertained over half an hour on important
matters.

She further. Did something that seemed impossible, given what he was talkative, learned to shut
up, listen with attention and don Braulio compel him to speak, of
which Don Braulio left happy.

Finally, with general conversation, the Count dropped the reins to his good humor, skewered thousand
humorous blunders, always within the limits not just of decency, but the more delicate manners,
and enjoyed and rejoiced at the meeting, be making nice to everyone.

Thus prepared the minds, when they had just struck eleven, and abandon
the proposed Condesa Gardens and all go home to tea.

Don Braulio, although it had laughed at the thanks Earl and was glad that he had heard discreet,
scales both gift and was not a little startled to see how it was getting into the big trot
world, but could not resist. The Countess was going to take up her house in his car. Then,
from the house of the Countess to the Don Braulio had a few steps
to go.

Raided and the difficulties it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the four in the same Landau open
that night was an intimate gathering to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In
general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting for
the elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored. Is admirable, therefore, a gathering,
like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people. The woman who manages to have a
chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many of these businesses will be recognized
worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated after and loved and otherwise other shades and hues of honey.

Women
usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed in this
way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not destroying
each other and are harmonized nicely.

The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way, his poet wanted another, and these feelings, own
and exclusive of women arose others that seemed to start the fund essential spirit where there is
no difference of woman and man of principle neutral, before you purchase determination sexual.
I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend similar to what a man can feel for
another man, with a sweetness most ineffable her as a woman, and
even pretty woman, manages to put into this friendship, completely
oblivious all feel love.

The first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita and the Count had not secrets.
Everything is trusted. The Earl looked at her friend consolation for their troubles and tips
for your difficulties.

Rosita Condesito admired talent: we laughed all jokes, was that no one was more discreet than
he, nor her poet and her husband were worth Pitoche next to Conde,
and he had made any sacrifice Rosita.

Never, however, and the Count had thought of love to Rosita and love it in the count.

So poetic relations based on mutual esteem, to Rosita was Alhedín
Count as an oracle, especially when it came to science that we dare
to call Aesthetics social, that is, to qualify people, and actions
and things, stylish, of distinguished and beautiful.

A sentence of Count Alhedín on ugly or pretty, on good tone and bad tone on distinction or lack
of distinction, was appealed to Rosita.

This will include their sudden enthusiasm for his old friends there. Count it had described as two
portents, and Rosita had taken for granted that they were.

Wishing then show them off at their gathering, happy to see the enthusiasm of so competent
judge The Count fell on his nearly countrywomen, and hoping that the Count of known and tried,
sought and found, as we have seen Beatrice and Agnes.

The Count himself, as he saw them, had come to tell who came through which was easily tired Rosita
recognize.

Moreover, neither in this plan was sinful, or Machiavellian purpose or any concert between the Count
of Alhedín and confidant.

Nothing had been hatched against the virtue and Beatrice or against the innocence of Agnes,
nor against the rest of Don Braulio honored.

Rosita looked with joy and pride to their semi-countrywomen, confident in the praise of the
Count. When finding them, or because they were well-disposed, either because they deserved it all,
he seemed better, each in his style, which he had said the Count. And Rosita was not envious, when
there was no jealousy or emulation by, wished well to all her friends
and was honest about Beatriz had spoken.

I went through your mind that your home could Inesita find a good boyfriend, felt at home may
come out of its dark Don Braulio, and as he has judged bird came to fingírsele in a short time or Director
General or Minister, making a thousand businesses use to the country, and especially her husband,
and did not seem not unlikely that at home and the Count of Beatrice finds himself falling hopelessly
Alhedín from each other, but this could not manage to see Rosita, as happens, and it occurred
with due caution, nothing tragic, or even unpleasant to Don Braulio who, as she had said, it was
really nice, and who was already very high concept.

With such ideas about their new, or rather, restarted friends, the Countess of San Teódulo burst into
kindness.

Beatrice was in the party happy and charming. Pleased to be served and pampered for all, rejected
the shortness and took the land, as if he were already in those who attend classrooms. Everyone,
even the most difficult, admired his ingenuity to match its beauty, and celebrated the natural
simplicity of his manner, his is not learned but innate elegance and their spontaneous Andalusian
charm.

Although the intoxication of success Beatriz tended to talk too much, I knew restraint and to not
be tempered by brash and talkative.

Through their thoughtful prudence was therefore unbeatable.

Ines, for style, was also very good. His Olympic serenity, its calm divine, not abandoned for
a moment.

In luxury and splendor of this house, previously unknown for her, she felt, as his sister,
who rose to head something like vapors of champagne, and without the rustic jungle indifference,
and without the affected contempt of vain and proud, not wondered about anything, showing that
he understood and believed it all, but was not foreign to your condition. In short: Ines was
in the party as it might have been a real princess, for whom all these festivities were a proper
element, or rather, were below the item that she was breathing and that his soul alive.

The serenity of Agnes might have passed for pride if it were not softened by a gentle angelic perhaps
been confused with apathy foolish, if in the light of her eyes, clear and profound at the
same time, intelligence will not fire. Who fixed his gaze on that of she believed to penetrate through
magical crystals within an enchanted palace filled mystery, or imagined sinking to the bottom of
clear lake, beautiful village and vague creations, whose divine contours could not quite understand
intently, because the most Sigh slight aura of pure curling waves,
and these, without loss in clarity or purity every image faded and
vanished.

As for Don Braulio, must be confessed he was quite cramped and out of place in such gatherings.

We
know that it was very escamón, as they say on their land.

So while disguised with ability, was with the beard on his shoulder and fingers seemed guests.
He was smart, but boasted ladino, and came to be about malicious.

He was therefore one of the party very different concept of Dona Beatriz had formed.

Although Don Braulio had lived mostly in places and small towns of the province, and but in
Seville, during the first years of their marriage, had been retiradísimo without never deal with
what they call the great world, he conceived and understood him more
beautiful than now presented itself.

He hesitated, therefore, that the great world was pure, but Fake I imitate him, as is imitation
gold ormolu.

And in this way was beyond what is reasonable and made judgments adventurous, understanding all
the grotesque and Trabuco things.
Los Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while
the gathering was subject of true worth and class, the concept was
a bit cloudy that Don Braulio masters of the house had to project
a certain dark shadow on the house that attended. In almost no one
thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence,
one just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet,
distinguished, elegant, sweet and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing
often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others,
Don Braulio, going from ready on this occasion, made a settlement
there in his mind, and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in
that house on paper than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back
inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering
their excellent qualities, and without fear of anything on this side,
almost intimate with him. 

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy,
which of course treated with the utmost confidence the two sisters,
who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners as being
somewhat short-sighted, and began to Beatrice in verse and prose infinite
compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and looked like a Don Juan Tenorio
needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the
gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which had
decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal
he had of the great world, the fact was that the house of the Counts
of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where any other in place,
would have been thrilled to be admitted. He could not bring
himself to have to do with Mr Slope.

'He is the most thoroughly bestial creature that ever I set my eyes upon,' said the archdeacon.

'Who--the bishop?'

'Bishop! No--I'm not talking about the bishop. How on earth such a creature got ordained!--they'll
ordain anybody now, I know; but he's been in the church these ten years; and they used to be
a little careful ten years ago.'

'Oh! You mean Mr Slope.'

'Did you ever see any animal less like a gentleman?'

'I can't say I felt myself much disposed to like him.'

'Like him!' again shouted the doctor, and the assenting ravens again cawed an echo; 'of course
you don't like him; it's not a question of liking. But what are we to do with him?'

'Do with him?' asked Mr Harding.

'Yes--what are we to do with him? How are we to treat him? There he is, and there he'll stay.
He has put his foot in that palace, and he will never take it out again till he's driven. How
are we to get rid of him?'

'I don't suppose he can do us much harm.'

'Not do harm!--Well I think you'll find yourself of a different opinion before a month is gone.
What would you say now, if he got himself put into the hospital? Would that be harm?'

Mr Harding mused awhile, and then said he didn't think the new bishop would put Mr Slope into
the hospital.

'If he doesn't put him there, he'll put him somewhere else where he'll be as bad. I tell you
that that man, to all intents and purposes, will be Bishop of Barchester;' and again, Dr Grantly
raised his hat, and rubbed his hand thoughtfully and sadly over his head.

'Impudent scoundrel!' he exclaimed after a while. 'To dare to cross-examine me about Sunday
schools in the diocese, and Sunday travelling too: I never in my life met his equal for sheer
impudence. Why, he must have thought we were two candidates for ordination.'

'I declare I thought Mrs Proudie the worst of the two,' said Mr Harding.

'When a woman is impertinent one must only put up with it, and keep out of her way in future;
but I am not inclined to put up with Mr Slope. "Sabbath travelling!"' and the doctor attempted
to imitate the peculiar drawl of the man he so much disliked: '"Sabbath travelling!" Those
are the sort of men who will ruin the Church of England, and make the profession of clergyman
disreputable. It is not the dissenters or the papists that we should fear, but the set of canting,
low-bred hypocrites who are wriggling their way in among us; men who have no fixed principle,
no standard ideas of religion or doctrine, but who take up some popular cry, as this fellow
has done about "Sabbath travelling."'

Dr Grantly did not again repeat the question aloud, but he did so constantly to himself, 'What
were they to do with Mr Slope?' How was he openly, before the world, to show that he utterly
disapproved of and abhorred such a man?

Hitherto Barchester had escaped the taint of any extreme rigour of church doctrine. The clergymen
of the city and the neighbourhood, though very well inclined to promote high-church principles,
privileges, and prerogatives, had never committed themselves to tendencies, which are somewhat
too loosely called Puseyite practices. They all preached in their black gowns, as their fathers
had done before them; they wore ordinary black cloth waistcoats; they had not candles on their
altars, either lighted or unlighted; they made no private genuflexions, and were contented
to confine themselves to such ceremonial observances as had been in vogue for the last hundred
years. The services were decently and demurely read in their parish churches, chanting was
confined to the cathedral, and the science of intoning was unknown. One young man who had come
direct from Oxford as a curate at Plumstead had, after the lapse of two or three Sundays, made
a faint attempt, much to the bewilderment of the poorer part of the congregation. Dr Grantly
had not been present on the occasion; but Mrs Grantly, who had her own opinion on the subject,
immediately after the service expressed a hope that the young gentleman had not been taken
ill, and offered to send him all kinds of condiments supposed to be good for a sore throat.
After that there had been no more intoning at Plumstead Episcopi.

But now the archdeacon began to meditate on some strong measures of absolute opposition. Dr
Proudie and his crew were of the lowest possible order of Church of England clergymen, and
therefore it behoved him, Dr Grantly, to be of the very highest. Dr Proudie would abolish all
forms and ceremonies, and therefore Dr Grantly felt the sudden necessity of multiplying them.
Dr Proudie would consent to deprive the church of all collective authority and rule, and therefore
Dr Grantly would stand up for the full power of convocation, and the renewal of its ancient
privileges.

It was true that he could not himself intone the service, but he could pressure the co-operation
of any number of gentlemanlike curates well trained in the mystery of doing so. He would not
willingly alter his own fashion of dress, but he could people Barchester with young clergymen
dressed in the longest frocks, and the highest breasted silk waistcoats. He certainly was not
prepared to cross himself, or to advocate the real presence; but, without going this length,
there were various observances, by adopting which he could plainly show his antipathy to such
men as Dr Proudie and Mr Slope.

All these things passed through his mind as he paced up and down the close with Mr Harding.
War, war, internecine war was in his heart. He felt that as regarded himself and Mr Slope,
one of the two must be annihilated as far as the city of Barchester was concerned; and he did
not intend to give way until there was not left to him an inch of ground on which he could
stand. He still flattered himself that he could make Barchester too hot to hold Mr Slope, and
he had no weakness of spirit to prevent his bringing about such consummation if it were in
his power.

'I suppose Susan must call at the palace,' said Mr Harding.

'Yes, she shall call there; but it shall be once and once only. I dare say "the horses" won't
find it convenient to come to Plumstead very soon, and when that once is done the matter may drop.'

'I don't suppose Eleanor need call. I don't think Eleanor would get on at all well with Mrs
Proudie.'

'Not the least necessity in life,' replied the archdeacon, not without the reflection that
a ceremony which was necessary for his wife, might not be at all binding on the widow of John
Bold. 'Not the slightest reason on earth why she should do so, if she doesn't like it. For
myself, I don't think that any decent young woman should be subjected to the nuisance of being
in the same room with that man.'

And so the two clergymen parted. Mr Harding going to his daughter's house, and the archdeacon
seeking the seclusion of his brougham.

The new inhabitants of the palace did not express any higher opinion of their visitors than
their visitors had expressed of them. Though they did not use quite such strong language as
Dr Grantly had done, they felt as much personal aversion, and were quite as well aware as he
was that there would be a battle to be fought, and that there was hardly room for Proudieism
in Barchester as long as Grantlyism was predominant.

Indeed, it may be doubted whether Mr Slope had not already within his breast a better prepared
system of strategy, a more accurately-defined line of hostile conduct than the archdeacon.
Dr Grantly was going to fight because he found that he hated the man. Mr Slope had predetermined
to hate the man because he foresaw the necessity of fighting him. When he had first reviewed
the carte de pays, previous to his entry into Barchester, the idea had occurred to him of conciliating
the archdeacon, of cajoling and flattering him into submission, and of obtaining the upper
hand by cunning instead of courage. A little inquiry, however, sufficed to convince him that
all his cunning would fail to win over such a man as Dr Grantly to such a mode of action as
that to be adopted by Mr Slope; and then he determined to fall back upon his courage. He at
once saw that open battle against Dr Grantly and all Dr Grantly's adherents was a necessity
of his position, and he deliberately planned the most expedient method of giving offence.

Soon after his arrival the bishop had intimated to the dean that, with the permission of the
canon then in residence, his chaplain would preach in the cathedral on the next Sunday. The
canon in residence happened to be the Honourable and Reverend Dr Vesey Stanhope, who at this
time was very busy on the shores of Lake Como, adding to that unique collection of butterflies
for which he is so famous. Or, rather, he would have been in residence but for the butterflies
and other such summer-day considerations; and the vicar-choral, who was to take his place in
the pulpit, by no means objected to having his word done for him by Mr Slope.

Mr Slope accordingly preached, and if a preacher can have satisfaction in being listened to,
Mr Slope ought to have been gratified. I have reason to think that he was gratified, and that
he left the pulpit with the conviction that he had done what he intended to do when he entered it.

On this occasion the new bishop took his seat for the first time in the throne allotted to
him. New scarlet cushions and drapery had been prepared, with new gilt binding and new fringe.
The old carved oak-wood of the throne, ascending with its numerous grotesque pinnacles, half-way
up to the rood of the choir, had been washed, and dusted, and rubbed, and it all looked very
smart. Ah! How often sitting there, in happy early days, on those lowly benches in front of
the altar, have I whiled away the tedium of a sermon considering how best I might thread my
way up amidst those wooden towers, and climb safely to the topmost pinnacle!

All Barchester went to hear Mr Slope; either for that or to gaze at the new bishop. All the
best bonnets of the city were there, and moreover all the best glossy clerical hats. Not a
stall but had its fitting occupant; for though some of the prebendaries might be away in Italy
or elsewhere, their places were filled by brethren, who flocked into Barchester on the occasion.
The dean was there, a heavy old man, now too old, indeed, to attend frequently in his place;
and so was the archdeacon. So also were the chancellor, the treasurer, the precentor, sundry
canons and minor canons, and every lay member of the choir, prepared to sing the new bishop
in with due melody and harmonious expression of sacred welcome.

The service was certainly well performed. Such was always the case at Barchester, as the musical
education of the choir had been good, and the voices had been carefully selected. The psalms
were beautifully chanted; the Te Deum was magnificently sung; and the litany was given in a
manner, which is still to be found at Barchester, but, if my taste be correct, is to be found
nowhere else. The litany of Barchester cathedral has long been the special task to which Mr
Harding's skill and voice have been devoted. Crowded audiences generally make good performers,
and though Mr Harding was not aware of any extraordinary exertion on his part, yet probably
he rather exceeded his usual mark. Others were doing their best, and it was natural that he
should emulate his brethren. So the service went on, and at last Mr Slope got into the pulpit.

He chose for his text a verse from the precept addressed by St Paul to Timothy, as to the conduct
necessary in a spiritual pastor and guide, and it was immediately evident that the good clergy
of Barchester were to have a lesson. He was listened to with breathless attention, and not
without considerable surprise. Whatever opinion of Mr Slope might have been held in Barchester
before he commenced, his discourse, none of his hearers, when it was over, could mistake him
for either a fool or a coward.

It would not be becoming were I to travesty a sermon, or even repeat the language of it in
the pages of a novel. In endeavouring to depict the characters of the persons of whom I write,
I am to a certain extent forced to speak of sacred things. I trust, however, that I shall not
be thought to scoff at the pulpit, though some may imagine that I do not feel the reverence
that is due to the cloth. I may question the infallibility of the teachers, but I hope that
I shall not therefore be accused of doubt as to the thing to be taught.

Mr Slope, in commencing his sermon, showed no slight tact in his ambiguous manner of hinting
that, humble as he was himself, he stood there as the mouthpiece of the illustrious divine
who sat opposite to him; and having presumed so much, he gave forth a very accurate definition
of the conduct which that prelate would rejoice to see in the clergymen now brought under his
jurisdiction. It is only necessary to say, that the peculiar points insisted on were exactly
those which were most distasteful to the clergy of the diocese, and most averse to their practices
and opinions; and that all those peculiar habits and privileges which have always been dear
to high-church priests, to that party which is now scandalously called the high-and-dry church,
were ridiculed, abused, and anathematised. Now, the clergymen of the diocese of Barchester
are all of the high-and-dry church.

Having thus, according to his own opinion, explained how a clergyman should show himself approved
unto God, as a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, he went on to explain how the word of
truth should be divided; and here he took a rather narrow view of the question; and fetched
arguments from afar. His object was to express his abomination of all ceremonious modes of
utterance, to cry down any religious feeling which might be excited, not by the sense, but
by the sound of words, and in fact to insult the cathedral practices. Had St Paul spoken of
rightly pronouncing instead of rightly dividing the word of truth, this part of his sermon
would have been more to the purpose; but the preacher's immediate object was to preach Mr Slope's
doctrine, and not St Paul's, and he contrived to give the necessary twist to the text with
some skill.

He could not exactly say, preaching from a cathedral pulpit, that chanting should be abandoned
in cathedral services. By such an assertion, he would have overshot his mark and rendered himself
absurd, to the delight of his hearers. He could, however, and did, allude with heavy denunciations
to the practice of intoning in parish churches, although the practice was not but unknown in
the diocese; and from thence he came round to the undue preponderance, which he asserted, music
over meaning in the beautiful service which they had just heard. He was aware, he said, that
the practices of our ancestors could not be abandoned at a moment's notice; the feelings of
the aged would be outraged, and the minds of respectable men would be shocked. There were many,
he was aware, of not sufficient calibre of thought to perceive, of not sufficient education
to know, that a mode of service, which was effective when outward ceremonies were of more moment
than inward feelings, had become all but barbarous at a time when inward conviction was everything,
when each word of the minister's lips should fall intelligibly into the listener's heart. Formerly
the religion of the multitude had been an affair of the imagination: now, in these latter days,
it had become necessary that a Christian should have a reason for his faith--should not only
believe, but digest--not only hear, but understand. The words of our morning service, how beautiful,
how apposite, how intelligible they were, when read with simple and distinct decorum! But how
much of the meaning of the words was lost when they were produced with all the meretricious
charms of melody! &c &c.

Here was a sermon to be preached before Mr Archdeacon Grantly, Mr Precentor Harding, and the
rest of them! Before a whole dean and chapter assembled in their own cathedral! Before men
who had grown old in the exercise of their peculiar services, with a full conviction of their
excellence for all intended purposes! This too from such a man, a clerical parvenu, a man without
a cure, a mere chaplain, an intruder among them; a fellow raked up, so said Dr Grantly, from
the gutters of Marylebone! They had to sit through it! None of them, not even Dr Grantly, could
close his ears, nor leave the house of God during the hours of service. They were under an
obligation of listening, and that too, without any immediate power of reply.

There is, perhaps, no greater hardship at present inflicted on mankind in civilised and free
countries than the necessity of listening to sermons. No one but a preaching clergyman has,
in these realms, the power of compelling audiences to sit silent, and be tormented. No one
but a preaching clergyman can revel in platitudes, truisms, and untruisms, (sic) and yet receive,
as his undisputed privilege, the same respectful demeanour as though words of impassioned eloquence,
or persuasive logic, fell from his lips. Let a professor of law or physic find his place in
a lecture-room, and there pour forth jejune words and useless empty phrases, and he will pour
them forth to empty benches. Let a barrister attempt to talk without talking well, and he will
talk but seldom. A judge's charge need be listened to per force by none but the jury, prisoner,
and gaoler (sic). A member of parliament can be coughed down or counted out. Town-councillors
can be tabooed. But no one can rid himself of the preaching clergyman. He is the bore of the
age, the old man whom we Sindbads cannot shake off, the nightmare that disturbs our Sunday's
rest, the incubus that overloads our religion and makes God's service distasteful. We are not
forced into church! No: but we desire more than that. We desire not to be forced to stay away.
We desire, nay, we are resolute, to enjoy the comfort of public worship; but we desire also
that we may do so without an amount of tedium which ordinary human nature cannot endure with
patience; that we may be able to leave the house of God without that anxious longing for escape,
which is the common consequence of common sermons.

With what complacency will a young parson deduce false conclusions from misunderstood texts,
and then threaten us with all the penalties of Hades if we neglect to comply with the injunctions
he has given us! Yes, my too self-confident juvenile friend, I do believe in those mysteries,
which are so common in your mouth; I do believe in the unadulterated word which you hold there
in your hand; but you must pardon me if, in some things, I doubt your interpretation. The bible
is good, the prayer-book is good, nay, you yourself would be acceptable, if you would read
to me some portion of those time-honoured discourses which our great divines have elaborated
in the full maturity of their powers. But you must excuse me, my insufficient young lecturer,
if I yawn over your imperfect sentences, your repeated phrases, your false pathos, your drawlings
(sic) and denouncings (sic), your humming and hawing, your oh-ing and ah-ing, your black gloves
and your white handkerchief. To me, it all means nothing; and hours are too precious to be
so wasted--if one could only avoid it.

And here I must make a protest against the pretence, so often put forward by the working clergy,
that they are overburdened by the multitude of sermons to be preached. We are all too fond
of our own voices, and a preacher is encouraged in the vanity of making his heard by the privilege
of a compelled audience. His sermon is the pleasant morsel of his life, his delicious moment
of self-exaltation. 'I have preached nine sermons this week, four the week before. I have preached
twenty-three sermons this month. It is really too much.' 'Too much for the strength of any
one.' 'Yes,' he answered meekly, 'indeed it is; I am beginning to feel it painfully.' 'Would,'
said I, 'you could feel it--would that you could be made to feel it.' But he never guessed
that my heart was wrung for the poor listeners.

There was, at any rate, no tedium felt in listening to Mr Slope on the occasion in question.
His subject came too home to his audience to be dull; and, to tell the truth, Mr Slope had
the gift of using words forcibly. He was heard through his thirty minutes of eloquence with
mute attention and open ears; but with angry eyes, which glared found form one enraged parson
to another, with wide-spread nostrils from which already burst forth fumes of indignation,
and with many shufflings (sic) of the feet and uneasy motions of the body, which betokened
minds disturbed, and hearts not at peace with all the world.

At last the bishop, who, of all the congregation, had been most surprised, and whose hair almost
stood on end with terror, gave the blessing in a manner not at all equal to that in which he
had long been practising it in his own study, and the congregation was free to go their way.

CHAPTER VII

THE DEAN AND CHAPTER TAKE COUNSEL

All Barchester was in a tumult. Dr Grantly could hardly get himself out of the cathedral porch
before he exploded in his wrath. The old dean betook himself silently to his deanery, afraid
to speak; and there sat, half stupefied, pondering many things in vain. Mr Harding crept forth
solitary and unhappy; and, slowly passing beneath the elms of the close, could scarcely bring
himself to believe that the words which he had heard had proceeded from the pulpit of the Barchester
Cathedral. Was he again to be disturbed? Was his whole life to be shown up as a useless sham
a second time? would he have to abdicate his precentorship, as he had his wardenship, and to
give up chanting, as he had given up his twelve old bedesmen? And what if he did! Some other
Jupiter, some other Mr Slope, would come and turn him out of St Cuthbert's. Surely he could
not have been wrong all his life in chanting the litany as he had done! He began, however,
to have doubts. Doubting himself was Mr Harding's weakness. It is not, however, the usual fault
of his order.

Yes! All Barchester was in a tumult. It was not only the clergy who were affected. The laity
also had listened to Mr Slope's new doctrine, all with surprise, some with indignation, and
some with a mixed feeling, in which dislike of the preacher was not so strongly blended. The
old bishop and his chaplain, the dean and his canons and minor canons, the old choir, and especially
Mr Harding who was at the head of it, had all been popular in Barchester. They had spent their
money and done good; the poor had not been ground down; the clergy in society had neither been
overbearing nor austere; and the whole repute of the city was due to its ecclesiastical importance.
Yet there were those who had heard Mr Slope with satisfaction.

It is so pleasant to receive a fillip of excitement when suffering from the dull routine of
everyday life! The anthems and Te Deums were in themselves delightful, but they had been heard
so often! Mr Slope was certainly not delightful, but he was new, and, moreover, clever. They
had long thought it slow, so said now may of the Barchesterians, to go on as they had done
in their old humdrum way, giving ear to none of the religious changes which were moving the
world without. People in advance of the age now had new ideas, and it was quite time that Barchester
should go in advance. Mr Slope might be right. Sunday certainly had to been strictly kept in
Barchester, except as regarded the cathedral services. Indeed the two hours between services
had long been appropriated to morning calls and hot luncheons. Then Sunday schools; Sabbath-day
schools Mr Slope had called them. The late bishop had really not thought of Sunday schools
as he should have done. (These people probably did not reflect that catechisms and collects
are quite hard work to the young mind as book-keeping is to the elderly; and that quite as
little feeling of worship enters into one task as the other.) And then, as regarded that great
question of musical services, there might be much to be said on Mr Slope's side of the question.
It certainly was the fact, that people went to the cathedral to hear the music &c &c.

And so a party absolutely formed itself in Barchester on Mr Slope's side of the question! This
consisted, among the upper classes, chiefly of ladies. No man--that is, no gentleman--could
possibly be attracted by Mr Slope, or consent to sit at the feet of so abhorrent a Gamaliel.
Ladies are sometimes less nice in their appreciation of physical disqualification; and, provided
that a man speak to them well, they will listen, though he speak from a mouth never so deformed
and hideous. Wilkes was most fortunate as a lover; and the damp, sandy-haired, saucer-eyed,
red-fisted Mr Slope was powerful only over the female breast.

There were, however, one or two of the neighbouring clergy who thought it not quite safe to
neglect the baskets in which for the nonce were stored the loaves and fishes of the diocese
of Barchester. They, and they only, came to call on Mr Slope after his performance in the cathedral
pulpit. Among them Mr Quiverful, the rector of Puddingdale, whose wife still continued to present
him from year to year with fresh pledges of her love, and so to increase his cares and, it
is to be hoped, his happiness equally. Who can wonder that a gentleman, with fourteen living
children and a bare income of L 400 a year, should look after the loaves and fishes, ever when
they are under the thumb of Mr Slope?

Very soon after the Sunday on which the sermon was preached, the leading clergy of the neighbourhood
held high debate together as to how Mr Slope should be put down. In the first place he should
never again preach from the pulpit of Barchester cathedral. This was Dr Grantly's earliest
dictum; and they all agreed, providing only that they had the power to exclude him. Dr Grantly
declared that the power rested with the dean and chapter, observing that no clergyman out of
the chapter had a claim to preach there, saving only the bishop himself. To this the dean assented,
but alleged that contests on such a subject would be unseemly; to which rejoined a meagre little
doctor, one of the cathedral prebendaries, that the contest must be all on the side of Mr Slope
if every prebendary were always there ready to take his own place in the pulpit. Cunning little
meagre doctor, whom it suits well to live in his own cosy house within Barchester close, and
who is well content to have his little fling at Dr Vesey Stanhope and other absentees, whose
Italian villas, or enticing London homes, are more tempting than cathedral stalls and residences!

To this answered the burly chancellor, a man rather silent indeed, but very sensible, that
absent prebendaries had their vicars, and that in such case the vicar's right to the pulpit
was the same as that of the higher order. To which the dean assented, groaning deeply at these
truths. Thereupon, however, the meagre doctor remarked that they would be in the hands of their
minor canons, one of whom might at any hour betray his trust. Whereon was heard from the burly
chancellor an ejaculation sounding somewhat like 'Pooh, pooh, pooh!' but it might have been
that the worthy man was but blowing out the heavy breath from his windpipe. Why silence him
at all, suggested Mr Harding. Let them not be ashamed to hear what any man might have to preach
to them, unless he preached false doctrine; in which case, let the bishop silence him. So spoke
our friend; vainly; for human ends must be attained by human means. But the dean saw a ray
of hope out of those purblind old eyes of his. Yes, let them tell the bishop how distasteful
to them was this Mr Slope: new bishop just come to his seat could not wish to insult his clergy
while the gloss was yet fresh on his first apron.

Then up rose Dr Grantly; and, having thus collected the scattered wisdom of his associates,
spoke forth with words of deep authority. When I say up rose the archdeacon, I speak of the
inner man, which then sprang up to more immediate action, for the doctor had, bodily, been
standing all along with his back to the dean's empty fire-grate, and the tails of his frock
coat supported over his two arms. His hands were in his breeches pockets.

'It is quite clear that this man must not be allowed to preach again in the cathedral. We all
see that, except our dear friend here, the milk of whose nature runs so softly, that he would
not have the heart to refuse the Pope, the loan of his pulpit, if the Pope would come and ask
it. We must not, however, allow the man to preach again here. It is not because his opinion
on church matters may be different from ours--with that one would not quarrel. It is because
he has purposely insulted us. When he went up into that pulpit last Sunday, his studied object
was to give offence to men who had grown old in reverence to those things of which he dared
to speak so slightingly. What! To come here a stranger, a young, unknown, and unfriended stranger,
and tell us, in the name of the bishop, his master, that we are ignorant of our duties, old-fashioned,
and useless! I don't know whether to most admire his courage or his impudence! And one thing
I will tell you: that sermon originated solely with the man himself. The bishop was no more
a party to it than was the dean here. You all know how grieved I am to see a bishop in this
diocese holding the latitudinarian ideas by which Dr Proudie has made himself conspicuous.
You all know how greatly I should distrust the opinion of such a man. But in this matter I
hold him to be blameless. I believe Dr Proudie has lived too long among gentlemen to be guilty,
or to instigate another to be guilty, of so gross an outrage. No! That man uttered what was
untrue when he hinted that he was speaking as the mouthpiece of the bishop. It suited his ambitious
views at once to throw down the gauntlet to us--here within the walls of our own loved cathedral--here
where we have for so many years exercised our ministry, without schism and with good repute.
Such an attack upon us, coming from such a quarter, is abominable.'

'Abominable,' groaned the dean. 'Abominable,' muttered the meagre doctor. 'Abominable,' re-echoed
the chancellor, uttering a sound from the bottom of his deep chest. 'I really think it was,'
said Mr Harding.

'Most abominable, and most unjustifiable,' continued the archdeacon. 'But, Mr Dean, thank God,
that pulpit is still our own: your own, I should say. That pulpit belongs to the dean and chapter
of Barchester Cathedral, and, as yet, Mr Slope is no part of that chapter. You, Mr Dean, have
suggested that we should appeal to the bishop to abstain from forcing this man on us; but what
if the bishop allow himself to be ruled by his chaplain? In my opinion, the matter is in our
own hands. Mr Slope cannot preach there without permission asked and obtained, and let that
permission be invariable refused. Let all participation in the ministry of the cathedral service
be refused to him. Then, if the bishop choose to interfere, we shall know what answer to make
to the bishop. My friend here has suggested that this man may again find his way into the pulpit
by undertaking the duty of some of your minor canons; but I am sure that we may fully trust
to these gentlemen to support us, when it is known that the dean objects to any such transfer.'

'Of course you may,' said the chancellor.

There was much more discussion among the learned conclave, all of which, of course, ended in
obedience to the archdeacon's commands. They had too long been accustomed to his rule to shake
it off so soon; and in this particular case they had none of them a wish to abet the man whom
he was so anxious to put down.

Such a meeting as that we have just recorded is not held in such a city as Barchester unknown
and untold of. Not only was the fact of the meeting talked of in every respectable house, including
the palace, but the very speeches of the dean, the archdeacon, and chancellor were repeated;
not without many additions and imaginary circumstances, according to the tastes and opinions
of the relaters.

All, however, agreed in saying that Mr Slope was to be debarred from opening his mouth in the
cathedral of Barchester; many believed that the vergers were to be ordered to refuse him even
the accommodation of a seat; and some of the most far-going advocates for strong measures,
declared that this sermon was looked upon as an indictable offence, and that proceedings were
to be taken against him for brawling.

The party who were inclined to him--the enthusiastically religious young ladies, and the middle-aged
spinsters desirous of a move--of course took up his defence the more warmly on account of this
attack. If they could not hear Mr Slope in the cathedral, they would hear him elsewhere; they
would leave the dull dean, the dull old prebendaries, and the scarcely less dull young minor
canons, to preach to each other; they would work slippers and cushions, and hem bands for Mr
Slope, make him a happy martyr, and stick him up in some new Sion (sic) or Bethesda, and put
the cathedral quite out of fashion.

Dr and Mrs Proudie at once returned to London. Take, however, this box, and very careful not to open it.
If you open it, will never be able to see me again.

Urashima promised to be very careful not to open the box and for the world. Then came in his
boat, sailed a lot, and finally landed on the coast of his native country.

But what had happened during his absence? Where was his father's hut? What had been in the village
who used to live?

The mountains, indeed, were there as before, but the trees had been
cut.

The brook that ran beside his father's hut, was running, but there
were no women to wash clothes as before.

Portentous was that everything had changed in such a way in just
three years.

He was right then to have a man nearby and asked Urashima:

- Can you tell me, I pray thee, where the hut Urashima, who was here before?

The man replied:

- Urashima? How to ask for him if he disappeared four hundred years ago fishing? His father,
mother, siblings, grandchildren of his brothers, has died centuries.

That is a ancient history. You must be crazy when you're still such a hut. For hundreds of
years was rubble.

Suddenly came to mind Urashima the idea that the Dragon Palace, across the seas, with its walls of
coral and ruby ​​fruit, and golden dragons with tails had to be part
of fairyland, where a day is longer than a year in this world, and
their three years, accompanied by the Princess, had been four.

Was of no help, then stay and in his homeland, where all your relatives and friends had died,
and where even his own village had disappeared.

With great haste and recklessness in Urashima then thought back to
his wife, overseas.

But what was the direction to be followed? Who is mark?

- Perhaps, he mused, if I open the box she gave me, discover the secret and the way I want.

So
he disobeyed the orders he had given the princess, or not remembered
at the time, I was so upset.

Whatever it was, Urashima opened the box. And what do you think he left it? Came a white cloud
that floated over the sea. He shouted in vain for the cloud to stop. Then he remembered with
sadness that his wife had told him that, after opening the case,
there would no longer have to come back through the palace of the
god of the sea.

Soon he could not Urashima or scream, or run towards the beach, in search of the cloud.

Suddenly, her hair turned white as snow, his face covered with wrinkles, and their backs bowed
like a man decrepit. Then he missed his breath. And at last he fell dead on the beach.

Poor Urashima! Died for reckless and disobedient. If I had done as he was told the Princess,
had lived more than a thousand years.

Tell me you do not like to go see the Dragon Palace, across the sea, where the god lives and reigns
as king of dragons, turtles and fish, where the trees are emerald leaves and jewels for fruit,
and where the scales are silver and gold tails?

RAVAGES OF LOVE AND JEALOUSY
TRAGIC DRAMA

THIS drama, so too tragic, devoid of any literary worth,
but is published here to satisfy the curiosity of a few people who
wanted to see him when he was represented and did not succeed because
of the smallness of the room that served as a theater. The author
wrote The drama at the request of the graceful and unobtrusive Miss
María de Valenzuela, who prescribed certain conditions that should
hold his work. The drama was not to last longer fourteen or fifteen
minutes, the action had to be as awful as fast, and, except for parades
and dumb characters, they only appear in the six partners, three male
and three females, all of whom had died of disasters and violent death
in the same scene. As frightening outcome was not to be due, or plague,
or famine, or fire heaven, nor any other supernatural means, but everything
had to happen simply because gruesome frenzy effect that love and
jealousy in the soul of a passionate woman. I believe I have fulfilled
the above conditions imposed Miss me then I am proud. I recognize,
however, that my play had not been so lauded and celebrated not for
the merit of the actors and actresses that made me the honor to represent
you.

The day after this visit Eleanor told her father of it, and expressed an opinion that Mr Slope
was not quite so black as he had been painted. Mr Harding opened he eyes rather wider than
usual when he heard what had occurred, but he said little; he could not agree in any praise
of Mr Slope, and it was not his practice to say much evil of any one. He did not, however,
like the visit, and simple-minded as he was, he felt sure that Mr Slope had some deeper motive
than the mere pleasure of making soft speeches to two ladies.

Mr Harding, however, had come to see his daughter with other purpose than that of speaking
either good or evil of Mr Slope. He had come to tell her that the place of warden in Hiram's
hospital was again to be filled up, and that in all probability he would once more return to
his old house and his twelve bedesmen.

'But,' he said, laughing, 'I shall be greatly shorn of my ancient glory.'

'Why so, papa?'

'This new act of parliament, that is to put us all on our feet again,' continued he, 'settles
my income at four hundred and fifty pounds per annum.'

'Four hundred and fifty,' said she, 'instead of eight hundred! Well; that is rather shabby.
But still, papa, you'll have the dear old house and garden?'

'My dear,' said he, 'it's worth twice the money;' and as he spoke he showed a jaunty kind of
satisfaction in his tone and manner, and in the quick, pleasant way in which he paced Eleanor's
drawing-room. 'It's worth twice the money. I shall have the house and the garden, and a larger
income than I can possibly want.'

'At any rate, you'll have no extravagant daughter to provide for;' and as she spoke, the young
widow put her arm within his, and made him sit on the sofa beside her; 'at any rate you'll
not have that expense.'

'No, my dear; and I shall be rather lonely without her; but we won't think of that now. As
regards income I shall have plenty for all I want. I shall have my old house; and I don't mind
owning now that I have felt sometimes the inconvenience of living in a lodging. Lodgings are
very nice for young men, but at my time of life there is a want of--I hardly know what to call
it, perhaps not respectability--'

'Oh, papa! I'm sure there's been nothing like that. Nobody has thought it; nobody in all Barchester
has been more respected than you have been since you took those rooms in High Street. Nobody!
Not the dean in his deanery, or the archdeacon at Plumstead.'

'The archdeacon would not be much obliged to you if he heard you,' said he, smiling somewhat
at the exclusive manner in which his daughter confined her illustration to the church dignitaries
of the chapter of Barchester; 'but at any rate, I shall be glad to get back to the old house.
Since I heard that it was all settled, I have begun to fancy that I can't be comfortable without
my two sitting-rooms.'

'Come and stay with me, papa, till it is settled--there's a dear papa.'

'Thank ye, Nelly. But no; I won't do that. It would make two movings. I shall be very glad
to get back to my old men again. Alas! Alas! There have six of them gone in the few last years.
Six out of twelve! And the others I fear have had but a sorry life of it there. Poor Bunce,
poor old Bunce!'

Bunce was one of the surviving recipients of Hiram's charity; and old man, now over ninety,
who had long been a favourite of Mr Harding's.

'How happy old Bunce will be,' said Mrs Bold, clapping her soft hands softly. 'How happy they
all will be to have you back again.' You may be sure there will soon be friendship among them
again when you are there.'

'But,' said he, half laughing, 'I am to have new troubles, which will be terrible to me. There
are to be twelve old women, and a matron. How shall I manage twelve women and a matron!'

'The matron will manage the women of course.'

'And who'll manage the matron?' said he.

'She won't want to be managed. She'll be a great lady herself, I suppose. But, papa, where
will the matron live? She is not to live in the warden's house with you, is she?'

'Well, I hope not, my dear.'

'Oh, papa, I tell you fairly. I won't have a matron for a new step-mother.'

'You shan't, my dear; that is if I can help it. But they are going to build another house for
the matron and the women; and I believe they haven't even fixed yet on the site of the building.'

'And have they appointed the matron?' said Eleanor.

'They haven't appointed the warden yet,' replied he.

'But there's no doubt about that, I suppose,' said his daughter.

Mr Harding explained that he thought there was no doubt; that the archdeacon had declared as
much, saying that the bishop and his chaplain between them had not the power to appoint any
once else, even if they had the will to do so, and sufficient impudence to carry out such a
will. The archdeacon was of the opinion, that though Mr Harding had resigned his wardenship,
and had done so unconditionally, he had done so under circumstances which left the bishop no
choice as to his re-appointment, now that the affair of the hospital had been settled on a
new basis by act of parliament. Such was the archdeacon's opinion, and his father-in-law received
it without a shadow of doubt.

Dr Grantly had always been strongly opposed to Mr Harding's resignation of the place. He had
done all in his power to dissuade him from it. He had considered that Mr Harding was bound
to withstand the popular clamour with which he was attacked for receiving so large an income
as eight hundred a year from such a charity, and was not even satisfied that his father-in-law's
conduct had not been pusillanimous and undignified. He looked also on this reduction of the
warden's income as a paltry scheme on the part of government for escaping from a difficulty
into which it had been brought by the public press. Dr Grantly observed that the government
had no more right to dispose of a sum of four hundred and fifty pounds a year out of the income
of Hiram's legacy, than of nine hundred; whereas, as he said, the bishop, dean and chapter
clearly had a right to settle what sum should be paid. He also declared that the government
had no more right to saddle the charity with twelve old women than with twelve hundred; and
he was, therefore, very indignant on the matter. He probably forgot when so talking that government
had done nothing of the kind, and had never assumed any such might or any such right. He made
the common mistake of attributing to the government, which in such matters is powerless, the
doings of parliament, which in such matters is omnipotent.

But though he felt that the glory and honour of the situation of warden of Barchester hospital
was indeed curtailed by the new arrangement; that the whole establishment had to a certain
degree been made vile by the touch of Whig commissioners; that the place with the lessened
income, its old women, and other innovations, was very different from the hospital of former
days; still the archdeacon was too practical a man of the world to wish that his father-in-law,
who had at present little more than L 200 per annum for all his wants, should refuse the situation,
defiled, undignified, and commission-ridden as it was. 

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let go as you don Braulio
wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but not left to tie it graceful
loop of the tie, or stroking her hair, put ointment and combing the
best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert.

Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll
hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the
same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the
tickets - Beatriz said.

Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

-
I know. I suspect not think it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only to
realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens, but I, and Agnes certainly
more than I see them through another prism. We like to see people,
but not repaired by us.

The animation, joy, entertainment Luxury recreate us. Although we do not forge the illusion or
hope or even desire be seen and admired, want to see and admire the show, the beauty and elegance
of others.

- You're right, my dear, you're right. I forget you're a girl. Your tastes are as a girl. Mal did in
marrying a man ... and an old poor and obscure. Would you be called and held for you, leaving
your husband in his dark and poverty? Would you that I came to be known as the husband of Dona Beatriz?

-
I do not want, or that is possible. Everyone who knows me will know you, and, knowing, estimarte
can not but by what you're worth that much, and not because you are my husband. Those who are
known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be. No one would remember
of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love
again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other.

If something is worth my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me
sometimes the sweet light of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say
that my love is a treasure?

Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio,
who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth
linda could not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding
the hand of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand
felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio. I am sorry to say that I cannot defend Mr Slope's sermon in the cathedral. But
come, my dear, put on your bonnet, and let us walk round the dear old gardens at the hospital.
I have never yet had the heart to go beyond the court-yard since we left the place. Now I think
I can venture to enter.'

Eleanor rang the bell, and gave a variety of imperative charges as to the welfare of the precious
baby, whom, all but unwillingly, she was about to leave for an hour or so, and then sauntered
forth with her father to revisit the old hospital. It had been forbidden ground to her as well
as to him since the day on which they had walked forth together from its walk.

CHAPTER IX

THE STANHOPE FAMILY

It is now three months since Dr Proudie began his reign, and changes had already been affected
in the diocese which show at least the energy of an active mind. Among other things, absentee
clergymen have been favoured with hints much too strong to be overlooked. Poor dear old Bishop
Grantly had on this matter been too lenient, and the archdeacon had never been inclined to
be severe with those who were absent on reputable pretences, and who provided for their duties
in a liberal way.

Among the greatest of the diocesan sinners in this respect was Dr Vesey Stanhope. Years had
now passed since he had done a day's duty; and yet there was no reason against his doing duty
except a want of inclination on his own part. He held a prebendal stall in the diocese; one
of the best residences in the close; and the two large rectories of Crabtree Canonicorum, and
Stogpingum. Indeed, he had the cure of three parishes, for that of Eiderdown was joined to
Stogpingum. He had resided in Italy for twelve years. His first going there had been attributed
to a sore throat; and that sore throat, though never repeated in any violent manner had stood
him in such stead, that it had enabled him to live in easy idleness ever since.

He had now been summoned home,--not indeed, with rough violence, or by any peremptory command,
but by a mandate which he found himself unable to disregard. Mr Slope had written to him by
the bishop's desire. In the first place, the bishop much wanted the valuable co-operation of
Dr Vesey Stanhope in the diocese; in the next, the bishop thought it his imperative duty to
become personally acquainted with the most conspicuous of his diocesan clergy; then the bishop
thought it essentially necessary for Dr Stanhope's own interests, that Dr Stanhope should,
at any rate for a time, return to Barchester; and lastly, it was said that so strong a feeling
was at the present moment evinced by the hierarchs of the church with reference to the absence
of its clerical members, that it behoved Dr Vesey Stanhope not to allow his name to stand among
those which would probably in a few months be submitted to the councils of the nation.

There was something so ambiguously frightful in this last threat that Dr Stanhope determined
to spend two or three summer months at his residence in Barchester. His rectories were inhabited
by his curates, and he felt himself from disuse to be unfit for parochial duty; but his prebendal
home was kept empty for him, and he thought it probable that he might be able now and again
to preach a prebendal sermon. He arrived, therefore, with all his family at Barchester, and
he and they must be introduced to my readers.

The great family characteristic of the Stanhopes might probably be said to be heartlessness;
but the want of feeling was, in most of them, accompanied by so great an amount of good nature
that their neighbours failed to perceive how indifferent to them was the happiness and well-being
of those around them. The Stanhopes would visit you in your sickness (provided it were not
contagious), would bring you oranges, French novels, and the last new bit of scandal, and then
hear of your death or your recovery with an equally indifferent composure. Their conduct to
each other was the same as to the world; they bore and forbore: and there was sometimes, as
will be seen, much necessity for forbearing: but their love among themselves rarely reached
above this. It is astonishing how much each of the family was able to do, and how much each
did, to prevent the well-being of the other four.

For there were five in all; the doctor, namely, and Mrs Stanhope, two daughters, and one son.
The doctor, perhaps, was the least singular and most estimable of them all, and yet such good
qualities as he possessed were all negative. He was a good looking rather plethoric gentleman
of about sixty years of age. His hair was snow white, very plentiful, and somewhat like wool
of the finest description. His whiskers were large and very white, and gave to his face the
appearance of a benevolent sleepy old lion. His dress was always unexceptionable. Although
he had lived so many years in Italy it was invariably of a decent clerical hue, but it never
was hyperclerical. He was a man not given to much talking, but what little he did say was generally
well said. His reading seldom went beyond romances and poetry of the lightest and not always
most moral description. He was thoroughly a bon vivant; an accomplished judge of wine, though
he never drank to excess; and a most inexorable critic in all affairs touching the kitchen.
He had had much to forgive in his own family, since a family had grown up around him, and had
forgiven everything--except inattention to his dinner. His weakness in that respect was now
fully understood, and his temper but seldom tried. As Dr Stanhope was a clergyman, it may be
supposed that his religious convictions made up a considerable part of his character; but this
was not so. That he had religious convictions must be believed; but he rarely obtruded them,
even on his children. This abstinence on his part was not systematic, but very characteristic
of the man. It was not that he had predetermined never to influence their thoughts; but he
was so habitually idle that his time for doing so had never come till the opportunity for doing
so was gone forever. Whatever conviction the father may have had, the children were at any
rate but indifferent members of the church from which he drew his income.

Such was Dr Stanhope. The features of Mrs Stanhope's character were even less plainly marked
than those of her lord. The far niente of her Italian life had entered into her very soul,
and brought her to regard a state of inactivity as the only earthly good. In manner and appearance
she was exceedingly prepossessing. She had been a beauty, and even now, at fifty-five, she
was a handsome woman. Her dress was always perfect: she never dressed but once in the day,
and never appeared till between three and four; but when she did appear, she appeared at her
best. Whether the toil rested partly with her, or wholly with her handmaid, it is not for such
a one as the author to imagine. The structure of her attire was always elaborate, and yet never
over laboured. She was rich in apparel, but not bedizened with finery; her ornaments were costly,
rare, and such as could not fail to attract notice, but they did not look as though worn with
that purpose. She well knew the great architectural secret of decorating her constructions,
and never condescended to construct a decoration. But when we have said that Mrs Stanhope knew
how to dress, and used her knowledge daily, we have said all. Other purpose in life she had
none. It was something, indeed, that she did not interfere with the purposes of others. In
early life she had undergone great trials with reference to the doctor's dinners; but for the
last ten or twelve years her eldest daughter Charlotte had taken that labour off her hands,
and she had had little to trouble her;--little, that is, till the edict for this terrible English
journey had gone forth; since, then, indeed, her life had been laborious enough. For such a
one, the toil of being carried from the shores of Como to the city of Barchester is more than
labour enough, let the cares of the carriers be ever so vigilant. Mrs Stanhope had been obliged
to have every one of her dresses taken in from the effects of the journey.

Charlotte Stanhope was at this time about thirty-five years old; and, whatever may have been
her faults, she had none of those which belong particularly to old young ladies. She neither
dressed young, nor talked young, nor indeed looked young. She appeared to be perfectly content
with her time of life, and in no way affected the grace of youth. She was a fine young woman;
and had she been a man, would have been a very fine young man. All that was done in the house,
and that was not done by servants, was done by her. She gave the orders, paid the bills, hired
and dismissed the domestics, made the tea, carved the meat, and managed everything in the Stanhope
household. She, and she alone, could ever induce her father to look into the state of his worldly
concerns. She, and she alone, could in any degree control the absurdities of her sister. She,
and she alone, prevented the whole family from falling into utter disrepute and beggary. It
was by her advice that they now found themselves very unpleasantly situated in Barchester.

So far, the character of Charlotte Stanhope is not unprepossessing. But it remains to be said,
that the influence which she had in her family, though it had been used to a certain extent
for their worldly well-being, had not been used to their real benefit, as it might have been.
She had aided her father in his indifference to his professional duties, counselling him that
his livings were as much as his individual property as the estates of his elder brother were
the property of that worthy peer. She had for years past stifled every little rising wish for
a return to England which the doctor had from time to time expressed. She had encouraged her
mother in her idleness in order that she herself might be mistress and manager of the Stanhope
household. She had encouraged and fostered the follies of her sister, though she was always
willing, and often able, to protect her from their probable result. She had done her best,
and had thoroughly succeeded in spoiling her brother, and turning him loose upon the world
an idle man without a profession, and without a shilling that he could call his own.

Miss Stanhope was a clever woman, able to talk on most subjects, and quite indifferent as to
what the subject was. She prided herself on her freedom from English prejudice, and she might
have added, from feminine delicacy. On religion she was a pure freethinker, and with much want
of true affection, delighted to throw out her own views before the troubled mind of her father.
To have shaken what remained of his Church of England faith would have gratified her much;
but the idea of his abandoning his preferment in the church had never once presented itself
to her mind. How could he indeed, when he had no income from any other sources?

But the two most prominent members of the family still remain to be described. The second child
had been christened Madeline, and had been a great beauty. We need not say had been, for she
was never more beautiful than at the time of which we write, though her person for many years
had been disfigured by an accident. It is unnecessary that we should give in detail the early
history of Madeline Stanhope. She had gone to Italy when seventeen years of age, and had been
allowed to make the most of her surpassing beauty in the saloons of Milan, and among the crowded
villas along the shores of the Lake of Como. She had become famous for adventures in which
her character was just not lost, and had destroyed the hearts of a dozen cavaliers without
once being touched in her own. Blood had flowed in quarrels about her charms, and she heard
of these encounters with pleasurable excitement. It had been told of her that on one occasion
she had stood by in the disguise of a page, and had seen her lover fall.

As is so often the case, she had married the very worst of those who sought her hand. Why she
had chosen Paulo Neroni, a man of no birth and no property, a mere captain in the pope's guard,
one who had come up to Milan either simply as an adventurer or as a spy, a man of harsh temper
and oily manners, mean in figure, swarthy in face, and so false in words as to be hourly detected,
need not now be told. When the moment for doing so came, she had probably no alternative. He,
at any rate, had become her husband; and after a prolonged honeymoon among the lakes, they
had gone together to Rome, the papal captain having vainly endeavoured to induce his wife to
remain behind him.

Six months afterwards she arrived at her father's house a cripple and a mother. She had arrived
without even notice, with hardly clothes to cover her, and without one of those many ornaments
which had graced her bridal trousseaux. Her baby was in the arms of a poor girl from Milan,
whom she had taken in exchange for the Roman maid who had accompanied her thus far, and who
had then, as her mistress said, become homesick and had returned. It was clear that the lady
had determined that there should be no witness to tell stories of her life in Rome.

She had fallen, she said, in ascending a ruin and had fatally injured the sinews of her knee;
so fatally, that when she stood she lost eight inches of her accustomed height; so fatally,
that when she essayed to move, she could only drag herself painfully along, with protruded
hip and extended foot in a manner less graceful than that of a hunchback. She had consequently
made up her mind, once and for ever, that she would never stand, and never attempt to move herself.

Stories were not slow to follow her, averring that she had been cruelly ill-used by Neroni,
and that to his violence had she owed her accident. Be that as it may, little had been said
about her husband, but that little had made it clearly intelligible to the family that Signor
Neroni was to be seen and heard of no more. There was no question as to re-admitting the poor
ill-used beauty to her old family rights, no question as to adopting her infant daughter, beneath
the Stanhope roof tree. Though heartless, the Stanhopes were not selfish. The two were taken
in, petted, made much of, for a time all but adored, and then felt by the two parents to be
great nuisances in the house. But in the house the lady was, and there she remained, having
her own way, though that way was not very comfortable with the customary usages of an English
clergyman.

Madame Neroni, though forced to give up all motion in the world, had no intention whatever
of giving up the world itself. The beauty of her face was uninjured, and that beauty was of
a peculiar kind. Her copious rich brown hair was worn in Grecian bandeaux round her head, displaying
as much as possible of her forehead and cheeks. Her forehead, though rather low, was very beautiful
from its perfect contour and pearly whiteness. Her eyes were long and large, and marvellously
bright; might I venture to say, bright as Lucifer's, I should perhaps best express the depth
of their brilliancy. They were dreadful eyes to look at, such as would absolutely deter any
man of quiet mind and easy spirit from attempting a passage of arms with such foes. There was
talent in them, and the fire of passion and the play of wit, but there was no love. Cruelty
was there instead, and courage, a desire for masterhood, cunning, and a wish for mischief.
And yet, as eyes, they were very beautiful. The eyelashes were long and perfect, and the long
steady unabashed gaze, with which she would look into the face of her admirer, fascinated while
it frightened him. She was a basilisk from whom an ardent lover of beauty could make no escape.
Her nose and mouth more so at twenty-eight than they had been at eighteen. What wonder that
with such charms still glowing in her face, and with such deformity destroying her figure,
she should resolve to be seen, but only to be seen reclining on a sofa.

Her resolve had not been carried out without difficulty. She had still frequented the opera
at Milan; she had still been seen occasionally in the saloons of the noblesse; she had caused
herself to be carried in and out from her carriage, and that in such a manner as in no wise
to disturb her charms, disarrange her dress, or expose her deformities. Her sister always accompanied
her and a maid, a manservant also, and on state occasions, two. It was impossible that her
purpose could have been achieved with less: and yet, poor as she was, she had achieved her
purpose. And then again the more dissolute Italian youths of Milan frequented the Stanhope
villa and surrounded her couch, not greatly to her father's satisfaction. Sometimes his spirit
would rise, a dark spot would show itself on his cheek, and he would rebel; but Charlotte would
assuage him with some peculiar triumph of her culinary art, and all again would be smooth for
a while.

Madeline affected all manner of rich and quaint devices in the garniture of her room, her person,
and her feminine belongings. In nothing was this more apparent than in the visiting card which
she had prepared for her use. For such an article one would say that she, in her present state,
could have but small need, seeing how improbable it was that she should make a morning call;
but not such was her own opinion. Her card was surrounded by a deep border of gilding; on this
she had imprinted, in three lines:-

          La Signora Madeline
                          Vesey Neroni.
          - Nata Stanhope.

And over the name she had a bright gilt coronet, which certainly looked very magnificent. How
she had come to concoct such a name for herself it would be difficult to explain. Her father
had been christened Vesey, as another man is christened Thomas; and she had no more right to
assume it than would have the daughter of a Mr Josiah Jones to call herself Mrs Josiah Smith,
on marrying a man of the latter name. The gold coronet was equally out of place, and perhaps
inserted with even less excuse. Paul Neroni had not the faintest title to call himself a scion
of even Italian nobility. Had the pair met in England Neroni would probably have been a count;
but they had met in Italy, and any such pretence on his part would have been simply ridiculous.
A coronet, however, was a pretty ornament, and if it could solace a poor cripple to have such
on her card, who could begrudge it to her?

Of her husband, or of his individual family, she never spoke; but with her admirers she would
often allude in a mysterious way to her married life and isolated state, and, pointing to her
daughter, would call her the last of the blood of the emperors, thus referring Neroni's extraction
to the old Roman family from which the worst of the Caesars sprang.

The 'Signora' was not without talent, and not without a certain sort of industry; she was an
indomitable letter writer, and her letters were worth the postage: they were full of wit, mischief,
satire, love, latitudinarian philosophy, free religion, and, sometimes, alas! loose ribaldry.
The subject, however, depended entirely on the recipient, and she was prepared to correspond
with any one, but moral young ladies or stiff old women. She wrote also a kind of poetry, generally
in Italian, and short romances, generally in French. She read much of a desultory sort of literature,
and as a modern linguist had really made great proficiency. Such was the lady who had now come
to wound the hearts of the men of Barchester.

Ethelbert Stanhope was in some respects like his younger sister, but he was less inestimable
as a man than she was as a woman. His great fault was an entire absence of that principle which
should have induced him, as the son of a man without fortune, to earn his own bread. Many attempts
had been made to get him to do so, but these had all been frustrated, not so much by idleness
on his part, as by a disinclination to exert himself in any way not to his taste. He had been
educated at Eton, and had been intended for the Church, but had left Cambridge in disgust after
a single term, and notified to his father his intention to study for the bar. Preparatory to
that, he thought it well that he should attend a German university, and consequently went to
Leipzig. There he remained two years, and brought away a knowledge of German and a taste for
the fine arts. He still, however, intended himself for the bar, took chambers, engaged himself
to sit at the feet of a learned pundit, and spent a season in London. He there found that all
his aptitudes inclined him to the life of an artist, and he determined to live by painting.
With this object he retired to Milan, and had himself rigged out for Rome. As a painter he
might have earned his bread, for he wanted only diligence to excel; but when at Rome his mind
was carried away by other things: he soon wrote home for money, saying that he had been converted
to the Mother Church, that he was already an acolyte of the Jesuits, and that he was about
to start with others to Palestine on a mission for converting Jews. He did go to Judea, but
being unable to convert the Jews, was converted by them. He again wrote home, to say that Moses
was the only giver of perfect laws to the world, that the coming of the true Messiah was at
hand, that great things were doing in Palestine, and that he had met one of the family of Sidonis,
a most remarkable man, who was now on his way to Western Europe, and whom he had induced to
deviate from his route with the object of calling at the Stanhope villa. Ethelbert then expressed
his hope that his mother and sisters would listen to this wonderful prophet. His father he
knew could not do so from pecuniary considerations. This Sidonia, however, did not take so
strong a fancy to him as another of that family once did to a young English nobleman. At least
he provided him with no hope of gold as large as lions; so that the Judaised Ethelbert was
again obliged to draw on the revenues of the Christian Church.

It is needless to tell how the father swore that he would send no more money and receive no
Jew; nor how Charlotte declared that Ethelbert could not be left penniless in Jerusalem; and
how 'La Signora Neroni' resolved to have Sidonia at her feet. The money was sent, and the Jew
did come. The Jew did come, but he was not at all to the taste of 'la Signora'. He was a dirty
little old man, and though he had provided no golden lions, he had, it seems, relieved young
Stanhope's necessities. He positively refused to leave the villa till he got a bill from the
doctor on his London bankers.

Ethelbert did not long remain a Jew. He soon reappeared at the villa without prejudices on
the subject of his religion, and with a firm resolve to achieve fame and fortune as a sculptor.
He brought with him some models which he had originated at Rome, and which really gave much
fair promise that his father was induced to go to further expense in furthering these views.
Ethelbert opened an establishment, or rather took lodgings and workshop, at Carrara, and there
spoilt much marble, and made some few pretty images. Since that period, now four years ago,
he had alternated between Carrara and the villa, but his sojourns at the workshop became shorter
and shorter, and those at the villa longer and longer. 'Twas no wonder; for Carrara is not
a spot in which an Englishman would like to dwell.

When the family started for England he had resolved not to be left behind, and with the assistance
of his elder sister had earned his point against his father's wishes. It was necessary, he
said, that he should come to England for orders. How otherwise was he to bring his profession
to account?

In personal appearance Ethelbert Stanhope was the most singular of beings. He was certainly
very handsome. He had his sister Madeline's eyes without their stare, and without their hard
cunning cruel firmness. They were also very much lighter, and of so light and clear a blue
as to make his face remarkable, if nothing else did so. On entering a room with him, Ethelbert's
blue eyes would be the first thing you would see, and on leaving it almost the last thing you
would forget. His light hair was very long and silky, coming down over his coat. His beard
had been prepared in the holy land, and was patriarchal. He never shaved, and rarely trimmed
it. It was glossy, soft, clean, and altogether not unprepossessing. It was such that ladies
might desire to reel it off and work it into their patterns in lieu of floss silk. His complexion
was fair and almost pink, he was small in height, and slender in limb, but well-made, and his
voice was of particular sweetness.manner and dress he was equally remarkable. He had none of
the mauvaise honte of an Englishman. He required no introduction to make himself agreeable
to any person. He habitually addressed strangers, ladies as well as men, without any such formality,
and in doing so never seemed to meet with rebuke. His costume cannot be described, because
it was so various; but it was always totally opposed in every principle of colour and construction
to the dress of those with whom he for the time consorted.

He was habitually addicted to making love to ladies, and did so without scruple of conscience,
or any idea that such a practice was amiss. He had no heart to touch himself, and was literally
unaware that humanity was subject to such infliction. He had not thought much about it; but,
had he been asked, would have said, that ill-treating a lady's heart meant injuring her promotion
in the world. His principles therefore forbade him to pay attention to a girl, if he thought
any man was present whom it might suit her to marry. In this manner, his good nature frequently
interfered with his amusement; but he had no other motive in abstaining from the fullest declaration
of love to every girl that pleased his eye.

Bertie Stanhope, as he was generally called, was, however, popular with both sexes; and with
Italians as well as English. His circle of acquaintance was very large, and embraced people
of all sorts. He had not respect for rank, and no aversion to those below him. He had lived
on familiar terms with English peers, German shopkeepers, and Roman priests. All people were
nearly alike to him. He was above, or rather below, all prejudices. No virtue could charm him,
no vice shock him. He had about him a natural good manner, which seemed to qualify him for
the highest circles, and yet he was never out of place in the lowest. 

In sum, the cacique don Andrés was the only person who by nature was at the height of Dona Ines
and was able to understand and admire. I say naturally, because the father Anselmo though nature was
understood, was also so helpful and so enlightened with the grace of God that no one understood
as the value and excellence of Dona Ines, and very worthy of its friendly service, taking with
it piadosísimos symposia, which was unleashed against the abominable corruption of our century and
against the blasphemous disbelief prevails the day and to be taking over all spirits.

III

Without a device I already submitted my characters, several of
the main characters to be included in this story, but I still have
two of which should prior to any news.

Don Paco, as stated, was an encyclopedic man of many skills and abilities;
the right hand of the chief and subordinate intelligence that made
the place the sovereign the chief will be respected and fulfilled.

There was, however, Villalegre another person, that smaller and smaller
area terms, if not competing, was very close to Don Paco merit by
the multitude of their knowledge and skills and is hardworking and
ready he was.

I speak here of the famous Juana la Larga.

Seems impossible that this woman manages to do While many different things. She worked hard,
but there is no denying that with fruit. Had home, despite no winery and cellar, but the rest
almost as good as Don Paco. Devoid of olive groves and vineyards, but had made some nest egg,
which, as the public voice, spent twelve thousand pieces, and they grew like wildfire, because
the revenue was given to very reliable people, and ten percent a year, because as a woman was afraid
God consciousness very close and very charitable, I did not go through usurious.

In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and according to calculations wise,
about eight reales per day, or tell yourself about three thousand each year. And this without
counting the adehalas, tips, gifts and receiving gifts often. It is true that each and she
deserved more.

No one was more calculated to lead a pigs. Singular salted hams skill. Marinating with that
prepared the loins before frying in butter was tasty and delicate, and dyed red butter golden bewitching
sight, was delicate perfume and aroused the appetite of the person coming through half-hearted
when their noses and their eyes. Their sausage, black pudding, sausage morcones and left far
behind the best in this genus is seasoned in Extremadura. And he was so skilled hand for all
that even when melt the butter drew the most crunchy snacks that are eaten pork rinds ever.
So the rich peasants and other people comfortably and tastefully vied Juana la Larga to go to their
house to do the killing.

Regarding baking was nothing less, and most of the year, particularly in three solemn times, she
knew not how to go to a thousand places where they called it: Before Easter Christmas, to make
the sweets and delicacies and wealthy people often sybaritic then send your gift to make, for example,
pastries and the famous picadillo empanadas with anchovies and tomato and onion that are taken there
with the chocolate. It was also, as anyone polvorones tortillas and sugar that were left far
behind commended as Moron, donuts egg and wine, and many variety of cakes and syrups.

If Jane did not know much about other things, had failed to ensure that was a specialty wonderful
for fritters, so that in the days leading up to Easter no peace was at hand or the mind, going to the
homes of older brothers of the fraternities to make the fluffy flakes, the gajorros and delicious
fritters, which fell apart in the mouth and with which the apostles were given away, the Nazarenes,
the holy King David and all other prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament
contained delicious processions in which there is style.

Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the station vintage. Their syrup had
no rival in the whole region, and the same can be said its excellent porridge must. In the fall,
because when given the best fruits, are castrated hives and honey is cool, Juana was used to make
quince jelly and apple variety of legitimate and fluffy nougat piñonates,
which were thick and gold beads linked with the fragrant honey well
beaten.

Beyond this, Jane was painted alone to provide any or banquet that
was Pipiripao or wanted to give a ruler of the people, and on the
occasion of wedding or baptism, and to give away the deputy governor,
Mr Bishop himself if he came to visit the villa.

And do not think that Joan knew just making the local dishes but also imported and added a few
non-indigenous cuisine dishes strangers more or less distant countries, dishes or delicacies which
stood out the yolk very famous cakes, which were only Ecija nuns, whose traditional secrecy is
not clear why prodigious art or skill she had learned to seize. Made Finally, several dishes
of French origin, whose convoluted names had been agreeing to modify the pronunciation Spanish.
For example, the balsamela chops, fried flounder and elvers inglatines
with salmorejo tartar.

This was not the most admirable. The most remarkable was that Jane, about being the wiser cook
and pastry chef of the place, was also his first dressmaker.

Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut dresses with both art and
elegance as Worth or Doucet in the French capital.

The women and girls more affluent and fond of luxury came then to Joan for their Costumes effort,
when he had to wear them as a wedding, and at a fair or already in
the dance it used to be in the Hall buildings on the patron saint.

Juana, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure, but also exercised, although
it was not discussed or had a title, a necessary or profession of the highest importance social.

Peritísima
and agilísima was to help any woman in the harshest of Lucina trances,
and many trusted and were delivered to her, because she never had
any unfortunate creature, and because the mother was not very puny,
six or seven days after leaving care was already in place, and often
went to Mass, and if the opportunity arose danced bolero.

With all these skills and qualities, Juana's Long could not but be
dear and in Villalegre, getting your severe and high society or high-life
you have forgiven a slip or trip that took in his youth.

IV

At the time that it will begin the action of this true story, Jane was about quite forty years of
age, although still retained traces of its former beauty, who had
been noticeable when she was twenty, but as time was very poor and
had not discovered and showed their great skills, he found, despite
their merit, boyfriend of his choice, and had to remain unmarried.

What he has, some cavalry officer who came to those places to buy horses for the comeback, and
it was gorgeous and very funny and fun, he fell in love and got Juana woo. It is not known whether
he gave a promise of marriage or is not given, but the fact is that
the good of the officer had to go to civil war, which burned in the
Basque provinces, and there he killed a Carlist bullet that pierced
her skull and you'll be entered in the brain.

Juana was thus semiviuda. Posthumous posthumously or not, had a beautiful girl, who gave at
the baptismal font the same name as his mother.

The mob then added to the name the same epithet, where this girl, who will be the main heroine
of our story, became Juanita surname.

Her mother was raised with love and care, without restraint and without
pretense that she was his daughter which would have been in that play,
where everything was known, the most futile of dissimulation.

Juana raised, then, to her breasts Juanita, always called her daughter, Juanita since he began to
speak, mother Joan called mouth full.

This was considered a great impudence among the strictest in the place, crying out against the
scandal and bad example, but gradually all became accustomed, and after a few years nothing
seemed more natural and more just, but Juanita was the daughter of Juana, to which there is
no lack defenders, and reasonable, earnest, praising the love and maternal devotion of mother to
daughter, and when they were little cursing did not stop Juana compare with others that passed
through very honest and even had the insolence Presumably almost
holy.

Of them murmured, more or less foundation, which had been also the
fruit, not a blessing, which had dropped off or sent to the Foundling
or God or the devil knows how else.

The epithet given to Juanita Long was not only for inheritance but it was also by conquest.

Juanita,
at seventeen, had gleaned so much that the girl was taller and more slender that was in place. Some
of the blood warlike cavalry officer had been infused in it, and the free and manly upbringing
he had received had developed their agility and their brightness. Whenever she had a martial
air, the pair that funny, ran like a deer, throw stones with such tact that killed the sparrows,
and jumped on the back was planted the mule more vicious or more wild pony. And not to straddle,
because this is not consented their honor and their natural beauty
and unconscious, but sitting, which is more difficult was trot and
gallop to the beast, spurring or whipping heels with the end of halter
or halter when he was not going to do hair, without a bridle or reins
of any kind.

The first years of the youth of Juanita had been difficult, because
his mother had not yet achieved the remarkable reputation enjoyed
after, I had the welfare and wealth that we have already spoken.

Juanita was never a crumb, but his mother taught him to sew and embroider
beautifully; and school teacher, it took a lot of affection, taught
to read and write free their leisure time.

Since he was nine years, Juanita was of great assistance to his mother, who until much later
not had the luxury of having a maid.

Juanita sweeping and mopping, washing dishes, and some rooms whitewashed facade the house, which
was the cleanest of the population, and even grabbed his water jug ​​and was the miraculous
source of the ejido, which poured a stream pipe as thick as the arm
of a robust man, with such an abundance of water, that many gardens
were watered it and made lush, delightful Villalegre around, contributing
not little to the town deserve this name.

Water also was exquisite for its transparency and purity, as filtered through rocks of the nearby
hills, and had very pleasant flavor and very healthy condition. The people of people attributed
to him, finally, some prodigious qualities, calling it very vinaigrette and very wheat. He
meant by this that the carrier it bought in vinegar Villalegre yolk, usually strong, only two-thirds
filled cavity corambre and just filled the early morning, before your journey, mitigating
and smoothing with water from the source strength and bitterness
of the liquid, and earning it, of course, Thirty-three percent, but
sold the vinegar at the same price it was purchased.

Wheat was also the source water because its rare qualities consented, though difficult operation
and should be done with great secrecy, that using a broom palm dwarf, it is sprinkled with
wheat that was going to sell, leaving it exposed to sun for to dry.

So the wheat got better taste, and although the outside was dry, kept by in some of the liquid
and sponge and grew in weight and volume.

This source had yet another merit and provided another notable service, because in addition to a
great pillar that went to drink and drank all the beasts of burden and work and bulls cows and
oxen, and also another pillar under which used to be watering of sheep and pig, filled with its
crystal waves albercón spacious enclosure walls that hid in view of passers-by, where women
were washing clothes, rolled up skirts thigh and stuck in water up to the knee, as there is use,
even in the rigor winter. Lush and gigantic black poplars and pines and reeds surrounding the
source and make this place shady and delightful. At the foot of the best trees are made of stone
benches and clay and covered with slabs, which usually sit in the gentlemen and ladies post-ride.
Almost every evening there is assembled gathering and pleasant conversation, being the more consistent
the notary, the apothecary, our Don Paco and the priest, who touch
to recite the Angelus prayers, which all satisfy his hat and crossed
himself and crossing.

Pillar around chatting the girls who come by water, each with a pitcher, and often Cardigans make
the paper with as many carriers Eliezeres go there to drink, if not their camels, their mules
and donkeys. Also next to and within the albercón, and within walking distance it, where there
is a fence or hedgerow of blackberries, pomegranates, and honeysuckle, which limits and defends
the gardens, and on which the hedge is dried laundry, extends and expands the democratic and
popular gathering a lot of talk, laughter, hassles and frolic, as
there are missing never zagalones and even grown men who go out there
attracted to girls, as the sparrows go to wheat.

V

Juana la Larga, as already stated, through its continuing activity, order and economy, around
which her daughter helped her with intelligence and zeal, had improved position and fortune. He had
a very hard working maid, sweeping and scrubbing, and under the direction
of Ladies cooked well, leaving these free time to pursue their lucrative
trades.

Juanita The main office was sewing and embroidery, which had deployed to higher proficiency that
of his mother.

Juanita did not have to be used in lower occupations. But now it was for innocent vanity, or
desire to look for the grace of his person, wish not realized, pray for Juanita need from physical
exercise and to show and display power their healthy nature, Juanita, and even seventeen years
of age, liked to go for water the source of the ejido, paving sometimes,
despite the well off his mother's position and it albercón going to
wash some clothes when the clothes were fine, she feared, or pretended
fear that rougher hands than his will damage it.

The truth was that this albercón and go to the source, rather than
fatigue was recreation and relaxation for Juanita, which amused the
other girls with their sharp words and happy occurrences the cap was
removed and laugh enjoyed popularity and favor among them.

Juanita was already a pretty girl in every sense of the word. Housework had not spoiled her
pretty, shapely hands, and neither the sun nor the air had tanned his skin brunette. His black hair
with blue highlights, was well kept and clean. Do not put it or sweet almond oil or blandurilla
of any kind, but plain water with an infusion fragrant herbs to wash better. I was pulled high
on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape
of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.

As Juanita said that "head crazy not to play" almost always went to the source without tissue
head, looking like the delicacy and neatness of her hair and showing how well planted I was the
head on her graceful neck, only overshadowed by some ricillos often than is subtracted to captivity
that had the longest hair bow. Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite,
and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft,
not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float
freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts. The doctor bowed very low, and then looked as though he could not
return the compliment as regarded Mr Slope, of whom, indeed, he had heard nothing. The doctor,
in spite of his long absence, knew an English gentleman when he saw him.

And then the guests came in shoals; Mr and Mrs Quiverful and their three grown daughters. Mr
and Mrs Chadwick and their three daughters. The burly chancellor and his wife and clerical
son from Oxford. The meagre little doctor without encumbrance. Mr Harding with Eleanor and
Miss Bold. The dean leaning on a gaunt spinster, his only child now living with him, a lady
very learned in stones, ferns, plants, and vermin, and who had written a book about petals.
A wonderful woman in her way was Miss Trefoil. Mr Finnie, the attorney, with his wife, was
to be seen, much to the dismay of many who had never met him in a drawing-room before. The
five Barchester doctors were all there, and old Scalpen, the retired apothecary and toothdrawer,
who was first taught to consider himself as belonging to the higher orders by the receipt of
the bishop's card. Then came the archdeacon and his wife, with their elder daughter Griselda,
a slim pale retiring girl of seventeen, who kept close to her mother, and looked out on the
world with quiet watchful eyes, one who gave promise of much beauty when time should have ripened
it.

And so the room became full, and knots were formed, and every new comer paid his respects to
my lord and passed on, not presuming to occupy too much of the great man's attention. The archdeacon
shook hands very heartily with Dr Stanhope, and Mrs Grantly seated herself by the doctor's
wife. And Mrs Proudie moved about with well regulated grace, measuring out the quantity of
her favours to the quality of her guests, just as Mr Slope had been doing with the wine. But
the sofa was still empty, and five-and-twenty ladies and five gentlemen had been courteously
warned off it by the mindful chaplain.

'Why doesn't she come?' said the bishop to himself. His mind was so preoccupied with the signora,
that he hardly remembered how to behave himself en bishop.

At last a carriage dashed up to the hall steps with a very different manner of approach from
that of any other vehicle that had been there that evening. A perfect commotion took place.
The doctor, who heard it as he was standing in the drawing-room, knew that his daughter was
coming, and retired to the furthest corner, where he might not see her entrance. Mrs Proudie
parked herself up, feeling that some important piece of business was in hand. The bishop was
instinctively aware, that La Signora Vicinironi was come at last, and Mr Slope hurried to the
hall to give his assistance.

He was, however, nearly knocked down and trampled on by the cortege that he encountered on
the hall steps. He got himself picked up as well as he could, and followed the cortege up stairs.
The signora was carried head foremost, her head being the care of her brother and an Italian
man-servant who was accustomed to the work; her feet were in the care of the lady's maid and
the lady's Italian page; and Charlotte Stanhope followed to see that all was done with due
grace and decorum. In this manner they climbed easily into the drawing-room, and a broad way
through the crowd having been opened, the signora rested safely on her couch. She had sent
a servant beforehand to learn whether it was a right or a left hand sofa, for it required that
she should dress accordingly, particularly as regarded her bracelets.

And very becoming her dress was. It was white velvet, without any other garniture than rich
white lace worked with pearls across her bosom, and the same round the armlets of her dress.
Across her brow she wore a band of red velvet, on the centre of which shone a magnificent Cupid
in mosaic, the tints of whose wings were of the most lovely azure, and the colour of his chubby
cheeks the clearest pink. On the one arm which her position required her to expose she wore
three magnificent bracelets, each of different stones. Beneath her on the sofa, and over the
cushion and head of it, was spread a crimson silk mantle or shawl, which went under her whole
body and concealed her feet. Dressed as she was and looking as she did, so beautiful and yet
so motionless, with the pure brilliancy of her white dress brought out and strengthened by
the colour beneath it, with that lovely head, and those large bold bright staring eyes, it
was impossible that either man or woman should do other than look at her.

Neither man nor woman for some minutes did do other.

Her bearers too were worthy of note. The three servants were Italian, and though perhaps not
peculiar in their own country, were very much so in the palace at Barchester. The man, especially
attracted notice, and created a doubt in the mind of some whether he were a friend or a domestic.
The same doubt was felt as to Ethelbert. The man was attired in a loose-fitting common black
cloth morning coat. He had a jaunty well-pleased clean face, on which no atom of beard appeared,
and he wore round his neck a loose black silk neckhandkerchief. The bishop assayed to make
him a bow, but the man, who was well-trained, took no notice of him, and walked out of the
room, quite at his ease, followed by the woman and the boy.

Ethelbert Stanhope was dressed in light blue from head to foot. He had on the loosest possible
blue coat, cut square like a shooting coat, and very short. It was lined with silk of azure
blue. He had on a blue satin waistcoat, a blue handkerchief which was fastened beneath his
throat with a coral ring, and very loose blue trousers which almost concealed his feet. His
soft glossy beard was softer and more glossy than ever.

The bishop, who had made one mistake, thought that he also was a servant, and therefore tried
to make way for him to pass. But Ethelbert soon corrected the error.

CHAPTER XI

MRS PROUDIE'S RECEPTION--CONCLUDED

'Bishop of Barchester, I presume?' said Bertie Stanhope, putting out his hand, frankly; 'I
am delighted to make your acquaintance. We are in rather close quarters here, a'nt we?'

In truth they were. They had been crowded up behind the head of the sofa: the bishop in waiting
to receive his guest, and the other in carrying her; and they now had hardly room to move themselves.

The bishop gave his hand quickly, and made a little studied bow, and was delighted to make--.
He couldn't go on, for he did not know whether his friend was a signor, or a count, or a prince.

'My sister really puts you all to great trouble,' said Bertie.

'Not at all!' the bishop was delighted to have the opportunity of welcoming the Signora Vicinironi--so
at least he said--and attempted to force his way round to the front of the sofa. He had, at
any rate, learnt that his strange guests were brother and sister. The man, he presumed, must
be Signor Vicinironi--or count, or prince, as it might be. It was wonderful what good English
he spoke. There was just a twang of foreign accent, and no more.

'Do you like Barchester on the whole?' asked Bertie.

The bishop, looking dignified, said that he did like Barchester.

'You've not been here very long, I believe,' said Bertie.

'No--not long,' said the bishop, and tried again to make his way between the back of the sofa
and a heavy rector, who was staring over it at the grimaces of the signora.

'You weren't a bishop before, were you?'

Dr Proudie explained that this was the first diocese he had held.

'Ah--I thought so,' said Bertie; 'but you are changed about sometimes, a'nt you?'

'Translations are occasionally made,' said Dr Proudie; 'but not so frequently as in former days.

'They've cut them all down to pretty nearly the same figure, haven't they?' said Bertie.

To this the bishop could not bring himself to make any answer, but again tried to move the rector.

'But the work, I suppose, is different?' continued Bertie. 'Is there much to do here at Barchester?'
This was said exactly in the tone that a young Admiralty clerk might use in asking the same
question of a brother acolyte in the Treasury.

'The work of a bishop of the Church of England,' said Dr Proudie, with considerable dignity,
'is not easy. The responsibility which he has to bear is very great indeed.'

'Is it?' said Bertie, opening wide his wonderful blue eyes. 'Well; I never was afraid of responsibility.
I once thought of being a bishop myself.'

'Had thought of being a bishop?' said Dr Proudie, much amazed.

'That is, a parson--a parson first, you know, and a bishop afterwards. If I had once begun,
I'd have stuck to it. But, on the whole, I like the Church of Rome the best.'

The bishop could not discuss the point, so he remained silent.

'Now, there's my father,' continued Bertie; 'he hasn't stuck to it. I fancy he didn't like
saying the same thing so often. By the bye, bishop, have you seen my father?'

The bishop was more amazed than ever. Had he seen his father? 'No,' he replied; he had not
yet had the pleasure; he hoped he might; and, as he said so, he resolved to bear heavy on that
fat, immoveable rector, if ever he had the power of doing so.

'He's in the room somewhere,' said Bertie, 'and he'll turn up soon. By the bye, do you know
much about the Jews?'

At last the bishop saw a way out. 'I beg your pardon,' said he; 'but I'm forced to go round
the room.'

'Well--I believe I'll follow in your wake,' said Bertie. 'Terribly hot, isn't it?' This he
addressed to the fat rector with whom he had brought himself into the closest contact. 'They've
got this sofa into the worst possible part of the room; suppose we move it. Take care, Madeline.'

The sofa had certainly been so placed that those who were behind it found great difficulty
in getting out;--there was but a narrow gangway, which one person could stop. This was a bad
arrangement, and one which Bertie thought it might be well to improve.

'Take care, Madeline,' said he; and turning to the fat rector, added, 'Just help me with a
slight push.'

The rector's weight was resting on the sofa, and unwittingly lent all its impetus to accelerate
and increase the motion which Bertie intentionally originated. The sofa rushed from its moorings,
and ran half-way into the middle of the room. Mrs Proudie was standing with Mr Slope in front
of the signora, and had been trying to be condescending and sociable; but she was not in the
very best of tempers; for she found that whenever she spoke to the lady, the lady replied by
speaking to Mr Slope. Mr Slope was a favourite, no doubt; but Mrs Proudie had no idea of being
less thought of than the chaplain. She was beginning to be stately, stiff, and offended, when
unfortunately the castor of the sofa caught itself in her lace train, and carried away there
is no saying how much of her garniture. Gathers were heard to go, stitches to crack, plaits
to fly open, flounces were seen to fall, and breadths to expose themselves;--a long ruin of
rent lace disfigured the carpet, and still clung to the vile wheel on which the sofa moved.

So, when a granite battery is raised, excellent to the eyes of warfaring men, is its strength
and symmetry admired. It is the work of years. Its neat embrasures, its finished parapets,
its casemated stories, show all the skill of modern science. But, anon, a small spark is applied
to the treacherous fusee--a cloud of dust arises to the heavens--and then nothing is to be
seen but dirt and dust and ugly fragments.

We know what was the wrath of Juno when her beauty was despised. We know too what storms of
passion even celestial minds can yield. As Juno may have looked at Paris on Mount Ida, so did
Mrs Proudie look on Ethelbert Stanhope when he pushed the leg of the sofa into her train.

'Oh, you idiot, Bertie!' said the signora, seeing what had been done, and what were the consequences.

'Idiot,' re-echoed Mrs Proudie, as though the word were not half strong enough to express the
required meaning; 'I'll let him know -;' and then looking round to learn, at a glance, the
worst, she saw that at present it behoved her to collect the scattered debris of her dress.

Bertie, when he saw what he had done, rushed over the sofa, and threw himself on one knee before
the offended lady. His object, doubtless, was to liberate the torn lace from the castor; but
he looked as though he were imploring pardon from a goddess.

'Unhand it, sir!' said Mrs Proudie. From what scrap of dramatic poetry she had extracted the
word cannot be said; but it must have rested on her memory, and now seemed opportunely dignified
for the occasion.

'I'll fly to the looms of the fairies to repair the damage, if you'll only forgive me,' said
Ethelbert, still on his knees.

'Unhand it, sir!' said Mrs Proudie, with redoubled emphasis, and all but furious wrath. This
allusion to the fairies was a direct mockery, and intended to turn her into ridicule. So at
least it seemed to her. 'Unhand it, sir!' she almost screamed.

'It's not me; it's the cursed sofa,' said Bertie, looking imploringly in her face, and holding
both his hands to show that he was not touching her belongings, but still remaining on his knees.

Hereupon the signora laughed; not loud, indeed, but yet audibly. And as the tigress bereft
of her young will turn with equal anger on any within reach, so did Mrs Proudie turn upon her
female guest.

'Madam,' she said--and it is beyond the power of prose to tell of the fire that flashed from
her eyes.

By this time the bishop, and Mr Slope, and her three daughters were around her, and had collected
together the wide ruins of her magnificence. The girls fell into circular rank behind their
mother, and thus following her and carrying out the fragments, they left the reception-rooms
in a manner not altogether devoid of dignity. Mrs Proudie had to retire to re-array herself.

As soon as the constellation had swept by, Ethelbert rose from his knees, and turning with
mock anger to the fat rector, said: 'After all it was your doing, sir--not mine. But perhaps
you are waiting for preferment, and so I bore it.'

Whereupon there was a laugh against the fat rector, in which both the bishop and the chaplain
joined; and thus things got themselves again into order.

'Oh, my lord, I am so sorry for this accident,' said the signora, putting out her hand so as
to force the bishop to take it. 'My brother is so thoughtless. Pray sit down, and let me have
the pleasure of making your acquaintance. Though I am so poor a creature as to want a sofa,
I am not so selfish as to require it all.' Madeline could always dispose herself so as to make
room for a gentleman, though, as she declared, the crinoline of her lady friends was much too
bulky to be so accommodated.

'It was solely for the pleasure of meeting you that I have had myself dragged here,' she continued.
'Of course, with your occupation, one cannot even hope that you should have time to come to
us, that is, in the way of calling. And at your English dinner-parties all is so dull and so
stately. Do you know, my lord, that in coming to England my only consolation has been the thought
that I should know you;' and she looked at him with the look of a she-devil.

The bishop, however, thought that she looked very like an angel, and accepting the proffered
seat, sat down beside her. He uttered some platitude as to this deep obligation for the trouble
she had taken, and wondered more and more who she was.

'Of course you know my sad story?' she continued.

The bishop didn't know a word of it. He knew, however, or thought he knew, that she couldn't
walk into a room like other people, and so made the most of that. He put on a look of ineffable
distress, and said that he was aware how God had afflicted her.

The signora just touched the corner of her eyes with the most lovely of pocket-handkerchiefs.
Yes, she said--she had been very sorely tried--tried, she thought, beyond the common endurance
of humanity; but while her child was left to her, everything was left. 'Oh! My lord,' she exclaimed,
'you must see the infant--the last bud of a wondrous tree: you must let a mother hope that
you will lay your holy hands on her innocent head, and consecrate her for female virtues. May
I hope it?' said she, looking into the bishop's eye, and touching the bishop's arm with her hand.

The bishop was but a man, and said she might. After all, what was it but a request that he
would confirm her daughter?--a request, indeed, very unnecessary to make, as he should do so
as a matter of course, if the young lady came forward in the usual way.

'The blood of Tiberius,' said the signora, in all but a whisper; 'the blood of Tiberius flows
in her veins. She is the last of the Neros!'

The bishop had heard of the last of the Visigoths, and had floating in his brain some indistinct
idea of the last of the Mohicans, but to have the last of the Neros thus brought before him
for a blessing was very staggering. Still he liked the lady: she had a proper way of thinking,
and talked with more propriety than her brother. But who were they? It was now quite clear
that that blue madman with the silky beard was not a Prince Vicinironi. The lady was married,
and was of course one of the Vicinironis by right of the husband. So the bishop went on learning.

'When will you see her?' said the signora with a start.

'See whom?' said the bishop.

'My child,' said the mother.

'What is the young lady's age?' asked the bishop.

'She is just seven,' said the signora.

'Oh,' said the bishop, shaking his head; 'she is much too young--very much too young.'

'But in sunny Italy you know, we do not count by years,' and the signora gave the bishop one
of her very sweetest smiles.

'But indeed, she is a great deal too young,' persisted the bishop; 'we never confirm before--'

'But you might speak to her; you might let her hear from your consecrated lips, that she is
not a castaway because she is a Roman; that she may be a Nero and yet a Christian; that she
may owe her black locks and dark cheeks to the blood of the pagan Caesars, and yet herself
be a child of grace; you will tell her this, won't you, my friend?'

The friend said he would, and asked if the child could say her catechisms.

'No,' said the signora, 'I would not allow her to learn lessons such as those in a land ridden
by priests, and polluted by the idolatry of Rome. It is here, here in Barchester, that she
must first be taught to lisp those holy words. Oh, that you could be her instructor!'

Now, Dr Proudie certainly liked the lady, but, seeing that he was a bishop, it was not probable
that he was going to instruct a little girl in the first rudiments of her catechism; so he
said he'd send a teacher.

'But you will see her yourself, my lord?'

The bishop said he would, but where should he call.

'At papa's house,' said the signora, with an air of some little surprise at the question.

The bishop actually wanted the courage to ask her who was her papa; so he was forced at last
to leave her without fathoming her mystery. Mrs Proudie, in her second best, had now returned
to the rooms, and her husband thought it as well that he should not remain in too close conversation
with the lady whom his wife appeared to hold in such slight esteem. Presently he came across
his youngest daughter.

'Netta,' said he, 'do you know who is the father of that Signora Vicinironi?'

'It isn't Vicinironi, papa,' said Netta; 'but Vesey Neroni, and she's Dr Stanhope's daughter.
But I must go and do the civil to Griselda Grantly; I declare nobody has spoken a word to the
poor girl this evening.

Dr Stanhope! Dr Vesey Stanhope! Dr Vesey Stanhope's daughter, of whose marriage with a dissolute
Italian scamp he now remembered to have heard something! And that impertinent blue cub who
had examined him as to his episcopal bearings was old Stanhope's son, and the lady who had
entreated him to come and teach her child the catechism was old Stanhope's daughter! The daughter
of one of his own prebendaries! As these things flashed across his mind, he was nearly as angry
as his wife had been. Nevertheless he could not but own that the mother of the last of the
Neros was an agreeable woman.

Dr Proudie tripped out into the adjoining room, in which were congregated a crowd of Grantlyite
clergymen, among whom the archdeacon was standing pre-eminent, while the old dean was sitting
nearly buried in a huge armchair by the fire-place. The bishop was very anxious to be gracious,
and, if possible, to diminish the bitterness which his chaplain had occasioned. Let Mr Slope
do the fortiter in re, he himself would pour in the suaviter in modo.

'Pray don't stir, Mr Dean, pray don't stir,' he said, as the old man essayed to get up; 'I
take it as a great kindness, your coming to such an omnium gatherum as this. But we have hardly
got settled yet, and Mrs Proudie has not been able to see her friends as she would wish to
do. Well, Mr Archdeacon, after all, we have not been so hard upon you at Oxford.'

'No,' said the archdeacon; 'you've only drawn our teeth and cut out our tongues; you've allowed
us still to breathe and swallow.'

'Ha, ha, ha!' laughed the bishop; 'it's not quite so easy to cut out the tongue of an Oxford
magnate,--and as for teeth,--ha, ha, ha! Why, in the way we've left the matter, it's very odd
if the heads of colleges don't have their own way quite as fully as when the hebdomadal board
was in all its glory; what do you say, Mr Dean?'

'An old man, my lord, never likes changes,' said the dean.

'You must have been sad bunglers if it is so,' said the archdeacon; 'and indeed, to tell the
truth, I think you have bungled it. At any rate, you must own this; you have not done the half
what you boasted you would do.'

'Now, as regards your system of professors--' began the chancellor slowly. He was never destined
to get beyond the beginning.

'Talking of professors,' said a soft clear voice close behind the chancellor's elbow; 'how
much you Englishmen might learn from Germany; only you are all too proud.'

The bishop looking round, perceived that abominable young Stanhope had pursued him. The dean
stared at him, as though he was some unearthly apparition; so also did two or three prebendaries
and minor canons. The archdeacon laughed.

'The German professors are men of learning,' said Mr Harding, 'but--'

'German professors!' groaned out the chancellor, as though his nervous system had received
a shock which nothing but a week of Oxford air would cure.

'Yes,' continued Ethelbert; not at all understanding why a German professor should be contemptible
in the eyes of an Oxford don. 'Not but what the name is best earned at Oxford. In Germany the
professors do teach; at Oxford, I believe they only profess to do so, and sometimes not even
that. You'll have those universities of yours about your ears soon, if you don't consent to
take a lesson from Germany.'

There was no answering this. Dignified clergymen of sixty years of age could not condescend
to discuss such a matter with a young man with such clothes and such a beard.

'Have you got good water out at Plumstead, Mr Archdeacon?' said the bishop by way of changing
the conversation.

'Pretty good,' said the archdeacon.

'But by no means so good as his wine, my lord,' said a witty minor canon.

'Nor so generally used,' said another; 'that is for inward application.'

'Ha, ha, ha!' laughed the bishop, 'a good cellar of wine is a very comfortable thing in a house.'

'Your German professors, sir, prefer beer, I believe,' said the sarcastic little meagre prebendary.

'They don't think much of either,' said Ethelbert; 'and that perhaps accounts for their superiority.
Now the Jewish professor -'

The insult was becoming too deep for the spirit of Oxford to endure, so the archdeacon walked
off one way and the chancellor another, followed by their disciples, and the bishop and the
young reformer were left together on the hearth-rug.

'I was a Jew once myself,' said Bertie.

The bishop was determined not to stand another examination, or be led on any terms into Palestine;
so he again remembered that he had to do something very particular, and left young Stanhope
with the dean. The dean did not get the worst of it, for Ethelbert gave him a true account
of his remarkable doings in the Holy Land.

'Oh, Mr Harding,' said the bishop, overtaking the ci-devant warden; 'I wanted to say one word
about the hospital. You know, of course, that it is to be filled up.'

Mr Harding's heart beat a little, and he said that he had heard so.

'Of course,' continued the bishop; 'there can be only one man whom I could wish to see in that
situation. I don't know what your own views may be, Mr Harding--'

'They are very simply told, my lord,' said the other; 'to take the place if it be offered me,
and to put up with the want of it should another man get it.'

The bishop professed himself delighted to hear it; Mr Harding might be quite sure that no other
man would get it. There were some few circumstances which would in a slight degree change the
nature of the duties. Mr Harding was probably aware of this, and would, perhaps, not object
to discuss the matter with Mr Slope. It was a subject to which Mr Slope had given a good deal
of attention.

Mr Harding felt, he knew not why, oppressed and annoyed. What could Mr Slope do to him? He
knew that there were to be changes. The nature of them must be communicated to the warden through
somebody, and through whom so naturally as the bishop's chaplain. 'Twas thus that he tried
to argue himself back to an easy mind, but in vain.

Mr Slope in the mean time had taken the seat which the bishop had vacated on the signora's
sofa, and remained with that lady till it was time to marshal the folk to supper. Not with
contented eyes had Mrs Proudie seen this. Had not this woman laughed at her distress, and had
not Mr Slope heard it? Was she not an intriguing Italian woman, half wife and half not, full
of affectation, airs, and impudence? Was she not horribly bedizened with velvet and pearls,
with velvet and pearls, too, which had been torn off her back? Above all, did she not pretend
to be more beautiful than her neighbours? To say that Mrs Proudie was jealous would give a
wrong idea of her feelings. She had not the slightest desire that Mr Slope should be in love
with herself. But she desired the incense of Mr Slope's spiritual and temporal services, and
did not choose that they should be turned out of their course to such an object as Signora
Neroni. She considered also that Mr Slope ought in duty to hate the signora; and it appeared
from his manner that he was very far from hating her.

'Come, Mr Slope,' she said, sweeping by, and looking all that she felt; 'can't you make yourself
useful? Do pray take Mrs Grantly down to supper.'

Mrs Grantly heard and escaped. The words were hardly out of Mrs Proudie's mouth, before the
intended victim had stuck her hand through the arm of one of her husband's curates, and saved
herself. What would the archdeacon have said had he seen her walking down stairs with Mr Slope?

Mr Slope heard also, but was by no means so obedient as was expected. Indeed, the period of
Mr Slope's obedience to Mrs Proudie was drawing to a close. He did not wish yet to break with
her, nor to break with her at all, if it could be avoided. But he intended to be master in
that palace, and as she had made the same resolution, it was not improbable that they might
come to blows.

Before leaving the signora he arranged a little table before her, and begged to know what he
should bring her. She was quite indifferent, she said--nothing--anything. It was now she felt
the misery of her position, now that she must be left alone. Well, a little chicken, some ham,
and a glass of champagne.

Mr Slope had to explain, not without blushing for his patron, that there was no champagne.

Sherry would do just as well. And then Mr Slope descended with the learned Miss Trefoil on
his arm. Could she tell him, he asked, whether the ferns of Barsetshire were equal to those
of Cumberland? His strongest worldly passion was for ferns--and before she could answer him
he left her wedged between the door and the sideboard. It was fifty minutes before she escaped,
and even then unfed.

'You are not leaving us, Mr Slope,' said the watchful lady of the house, seeing her slave escaping
towards the door, with stores of provisions held high above the heads of the guests.

Mr Slope explained that the Signora Neroni was in want of her supper.

'Pray, Mr Slope, let her brother take it to her,' said Mrs Proudie, quite out loud. 'It is
out of the question that you should be so employed. Pray, Mr Slope, oblige me; I am sure Mr
Stanhope will wait upon his sister.'

Ethelbert was most agreeably occupied in the furthest corner of the room, making himself both
useful and agreeable to Mrs Proudie's youngest daughter.

'I couldn't get out, madam, if Madeline were starving for her supper,' said he; 'I'm physically
fixed, unless I could fly.'

The lady's anger was increased by seeing that her daughter had gone over to the enemy; and
when she saw, that in spite of her remonstrances, in the teeth of her positive orders, Mr Slope
went off to the drawing-room, the cup of her indignation ran over, and she could not restrain
herself. 'Such manners I never saw,' she said, muttering. 'I cannot, and will not permit it;'
and then, after fussing and fuming for a few minutes, she pushed her way through the crowd,
and followed Mr Slope.

When she reached the room above, she found it absolutely deserted, except for the guilty pair.
The signora was sitting very comfortably up for her supper, and Mr Slope was leaning over her
and administering to her wants. They had been discussing the merits of Sabbath-day schools,
and the lady suggested that as she could not possibly go to the children, she might be indulged
in the wish of her heart by having the children brought to her.

'And when shall it be, Mr Slope?' said she.

Mr Slope was saved the necessity of committing himself to a promise by the entry of Mrs Proudie. Do not do it again.

- From here on out would be impossible. I desentonaríais. Already by this time I know all of
Madrid; that is, society. You must come, or with your husband ...
or me. I bring in my car if Gardens amuse you.

Mr Slope muttered something in reply, and prepared to go down stairs. As for the bishop's wanting
him, he knew his lady patroness well enough to take that assertion at what it was worth; but
he did not wish to make himself the hero of a scene, or to become conspicuous for more gallantry
than the occasion required.

'Is she always like this?' said the signora.

'Yes--always--madam,' said Mrs Proudie, returning; 'always the same--always equally adverse
to the impropriety of conduct of every description;' and she stalked back through the room
again, following Mr Slope out of the door.

The signora couldn't follow her, or she certainly would have done so. But she laughed loud,
and sent the sound of it ringing through the lobby and down the stairs after Mrs Proudie's
feet. Had she been as active as Grimaldi, she could probably have taken no better revenge.

'But she's lame, Mrs Proudie, and cannot move. Somebody must have waited upon her.'

'Lame,' said Mrs Proudie; 'I'd lame her if she belonged to me. What business had she here at
all?--such impertinence--such affectation.'

In the hall and adjacent rooms all manner of cloaking and shawling was going on, and the Barchester
folk were getting themselves gone. Mrs Proudie did her best to smirk at each and every one,
as they made their adieux, but she was hardly successful. Her temper had been tried fearfully.
By slow degrees, the guests went.

'Send back the carriage quick,' said Ethelbert, as Dr and Mrs Stanhope took their departure.

The younger Stanhopes were left to the very last, and an uncomfortable party they made with
the bishop's family. They all went into the dining-room, and then the bishop observing that
the 'lady' was alone in the drawing-room, they followed him up. Mrs Proudie kept Mr Slope and
her daughters in close conversation, resolving that he should not be indulged, nor they polluted.
The bishop, in mortal dread of Bertie and the Jews, tried to converse with Charlotte Stanhope
about the climate of Italy. Bertie and the signora had not resource but in each other.

'Did you get your supper at last, Madeline?' said the impudent or else mischievous young man.

'Oh, yes,' said Madeline; 'Mr Slope was so very kind to bring it me. I fear, however, he put
himself to more inconvenience than I wished.'

Mrs Proudie looked at her, but said nothing. 

The same freedom that had been raised, and the constant physical exercise, and in useful tasks, and
in games as a boy as a child, Juanita had made, though he had the holy ignorance or had lived
with the recollection that recommend and seek other mothers jealous I had not thought of yet in
matters of love. Was sought, and requested not to woo a few young men, but brave and surly, he
knew lay s, command respect and hold off the more daring.

Only one was known from childhood tilt persisted in it with constancy, but this inclination,
at least for his part, rather than affection had traces of brotherly love affection. Who inspired,
no doubt sharing less innocent style, was Antonuelo, master blacksmith's son and nephew of the
chief, who had in place very humble parentage.

Antonuelo was a gentle and robust fine fellow, very nice, but short-sighted and determined for
all, and particularly to admire Juanita, whom he regarded and respected
by subjecting it all his will and by virtue of fascination or spells.

VI

Don Paco given its constant and different tasks, not or had not planned to marry a second time,
but never had an affair, or at least, if one had had had been so wonderful with caution, no
one had heard of it in Villalegre, what which is an extraordinary implausibility, because at that place
had just person, and less even if it was of such importance and sheen as Don Paco, I could
do or say anything not knowing. Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented,
as the thinker does not think very openly and very inward.

We therefore believe that Don Paco had not had affairs, not to be very fleeting and lightweight,
and that even during her long widowhood, had thought such a thing.

He, however, remarkable fitness and skill to know and admire female beauty, and made months now,
almost without noticing it, and very unwillingly, when I was chatting
with the clerk and the pharmacist and other gentlemen on the benches
that were near the fountain, were fixed with loving eyes delight in
Juanita, still used to come to fill their jar and be there chatting
with other girls as they took their turn.

Undoubtedly, Don Paco had begun to feel inclined to live Juanita,
it was difficult to master, but he spent considerable time without
outward sign that the felt, longing perhaps hide from himself for
reasons he was given.

Founded in the very modesty that made him into a poor idea of ​​his person, was that fifty-three
years, thirty-six more than Juanita, could no longer love to girl, who or scorn their affection
or interest only move to correspond. Thought after Juanita, although in apparent freedom, was heavily
guarded by his mother, and mother and daughter lived with some relief,
it was assumed that, if he had intentions sinful loaning them, but
in any case would give in facie Ecclesiae and bringing the priest
to go.

The idea of ​​marriage to Don Paco terrified, and absolutely not because he hated being married
but because her daughter, Dona Ines, inspired him with an endearing affection, mingled with
terror, and because she was so compelling and brave, and would certainly be in a fury of the
underworld if his father give him stepmother, especially so mean position, and if seven grandchildren
she had given him, and I figured I could come yet she persisted in production approach, removing
the hope of inheriting the vineyard, olive grove and the house, and enjoy in his lifetime
not a little of what he was farm with his various arts.

Trembling Don Paco incurring the anger of her daughter, and although it mainly trembling anger, fear
did not stop their evil consequences.

Well he knew that there was no place in a person, or several together, they could replace him
successful in different jobs, but the world was not barren or devoid
of statesmen rustic, which could be sought and brought in from off-site
so that it will replace.

And it also knew that her daughter was a point less than omnipotent, because he had subjugated
two powers, temporal and spiritual.
Father Anselm was a saint and a doctor, and all it said was for him
could not help it, a legitimate corollary of the Gospels and the Epistles.
The father Anselmo would be able to excommunicate whom she commanded. The whole tendency of his mind and disposition was opposed
to any contra-assumption of grandeur on his own part, and he hadn't the worldly spirit or quickness
necessary to put down insolent pretensions by downright and open rebuke, as the archdeacon
would have done. There was nothing for Mr Harding but to submit and he accordingly did so.

'About the hospital, Mr Harding,' began Mr Slope, speaking of it as the head of college at
Cambridge might speak of some sizarship which had to be disposed of.

Mr Harding crossed one leg over the other, and then one hand over the other on the top of them,
and looked Mr Slope in the face; but he said nothing.

'It's to be filled up again,' said Mr Slope. Mr Harding said that he had understood so.

'Of course, you know, the income is very much reduced,' continued Mr Slope. 'The bishop wished
to be liberal, and he therefore told the government that he thought it ought to be put at not
less than L 450. I think on the whole the bishop was right; for though the service required
will not be of a very onerous nature, they will be more so than they were before. And it is,
perhaps, well that the clergy immediately attached to the cathedral town should be made comfortable
to the extent of the ecclesiastical means at our disposal will allow. Those are the bishop's
ideas, and I must say mine also.'

Mr Harding sat rubbing one hand on the other, but said not a word.

'So much for the income, Mr Harding. The house will, of course, remain to the warden as before.
It should, however, I think be stipulated that he should paint inside every seven years, and
outside every three years, and be subject to dilapidations, in the event of vacating either
by death or otherwise. But this is a matter on which the bishop must yet be consulted.'

Mr Harding still rubbed his hands, and still sat silent, gazing up into Mr Slope's unprepossessing
face.

'Then, as to duties,' continued he, 'I believe, if I am rightly informed, there can hardly
be said to have been any duties hitherto,' and he gave a sort of half laugh, as though to pass
off the accusation in the guise of a pleasantry.

Mr Harding thought of the happy, easy years he had passed in his old house; of the worn-out,
aged men whom he had succoured; of his good intentions; and of his work, which had certainly
been of the lightest. He thought of those things, doubting for a moment whether he did or did
not deserve the sarcasm. He gave his enemy the benefit of the doubt, and did not rebuke him.
He merely observed, very tranquilly, and perhaps with too much humility, that the duties of
the situation, such as they were, had, he believed, been done to the satisfaction of the late
bishop.

Mr Slope again smiled, and this time the smile was intended to operate against the memory of
the late bishop, rather than against the energy of the ex-warden; and so it was understood
by Mr Harding. The colour rose in his cheeks, and he began to feel very angry.

'You should be aware, Mr Harding, that things are a good deal changed in Barchester,' said
Mr Slope.

Mr Harding said that he was aware of it. 'And not only in Barchester, Mr Harding, but in the
world at large. It is not only in Barchester that a new man is carrying out new measures and
casting away the useless rubbish of past centuries. The same thing is going on throughout the
country. Work is now required from every man who receives wages; and they who have superintended
the doing of the work, and the paying of the wages, are bound to see that this rule is carried
out. New men, Mr Harding, are now needed, and are now forthcoming in the church, as well as
in other professions.'

All this was wormwood to our old friend. He had never rated very high his own abilities or
activity; but all the feelings of his heart were with the old clergy, and any antipathies of
which his heart was susceptible, were directed against those new, busy uncharitable, self-lauding
men, of whom Mr Slope was so good an example.

'By no means,' said Mr Slope. 'The bishop is very anxious that you should accept the appointment;
but he wishes you should understand beforehand what will be the required duties. In the first
place, a Sabbath-day school will be attached to the hospital.'

'What! For the old men?' asked Mr Harding.

'No, Mr Harding, not for the old men, but for the benefit of the children of such of the poor
of Barchester as it may suit. The bishop will expect that you shall attend this school, and
the teachers shall be under your inspection and care.'

Mr Harding slipped his topmost hand off the other, and began to rub the calf of the leg which
was supported.

'As to the old men,' continued Mr Slope, 'and the old women who are to form part of the hospital,
the bishop is desirous that you shall have morning and evening service on the premises every
Sabbath, and one week-day service; that you shall preach to them once at least on Sundays;
and that the whole hospital be always collected for morning and evening prayer. The bishop
thinks that this will render it unnecessary that any separate seats in the cathedral should
be reserved for the hospital inmates.'

Mr Slope paused, but Mr Harding still said nothing.

'Indeed, it would be difficult to find seats for the women; and, on the whole, Mr Harding,
I may as well say at once, that for people of that class the cathedral service does not appear
to me to be the most useful,--even if it be so for any class of people.'

'We will not discuss that, if you please,' said Mr Harding.

'I am not desirous of doing so; at least, not at the present moment. I hope, however, you fully
understand the bishop's wishes about the new establishment of the hospital; and if, as I do
not doubt, I shall receive from you an assurance that you will accord with his lordship's views,
it will give me very great pleasure to be the bearer from his lordship to you of the presentation
of the appointment.'

'But if I disagree with his lordship's views?' asked Mr Harding.

'But I hope you do not,' said Mr Slope.

'But if I do?' again asked the other.

'If such unfortunately should be the case, which I can hardly conceive, I presume your own
feelings will dictate to you the propriety of declining the appointment.'

'But if I accept the appointment, and yet disagree with the bishop, what then?'

This question rather bothered Mr Slope. It was true that he had talked the matter over with
the bishop, and had received a sort of authority for suggesting to Mr Harding the propriety
of a Sunday school, and certain hospital services; but he had no authority for saying that
those propositions were to be made peremptory conditions attached to the appointment. The bishop's
idea had been that Mr Harding would of course consent, and that the school would become, like
the rest of those new establishments in the city, under the control of his wife and his chaplain.
Mr Slope's idea had been more correct. He intended that Mr Harding should refuse the situation,
and that an ally of his own should get it; but he had not conceived the possibility of Mr Harding
openly accepting the appointment, and as openly rejecting the condition.

'It is not, I presume, probable,' said he, 'that you will accept from the hands of the bishop
a piece of preferment, with a fixed predetermination to disacknowledge the duties attached to it.'

'If I become warden,' said Mr Harding, 'and neglect my duty, the bishop has means by which
he can remedy the grievance.'

'I hardly expected such an argument from you, or I may say the suggestion of such a line of
conduct,' said Mr Slope, with a great look of injured virtue.

'Nor did I expect such a proposition.'

'I shall be glad at any rate to know what answer I am to make to his lordship,' said Mr Slope.

'I will take an early opportunity of seeing his lordship myself,' said Mr Harding.

'Such an arrangement,' said Mr Slope, 'will hardly give his lordship satisfaction. Indeed,
it is impossible that the bishop should himself see every clergyman in the diocese on every
subject of patronage that may arise. The bishop, I believe, did see you on the matter, and
I really cannot see why he should be troubled to do so again.'

'Do you know, Mr Slope, how long I have been officiating as a clergyman in this city?' Mr Slope's
wish was now nearly fulfilled. Mr Harding had become very angry, and it was probable that he
might commit himself.

'I really do not see what that has to do with the question. You cannot think that the bishop
would be justified in allowing you to regard as a sinecure a situation that requires an active
man, merely because you have been employed for many years in the cathedral.'

'But it might induce the bishop to see me, if I asked him to do so. I shall consult my friends
in this matter, Mr Slope; but I mean to be guilty of no subterfuge,--you may tell the bishop
that as I altogether disagree with his views about the hospital, I shall decline the situation
if I find that any such conditions are attached to it as those you have suggested;' and so
saying, Mr Harding took his hat and went his way.

Mr Slope was contented. He considered himself at liberty to accept Mr Harding's last speech
as an absolute refusal of the appointment. At least, he so represented it to the bishop and
to Mrs Proudie.

'That is very surprising,' said the bishop.

'Not at all,' said Mrs Proudie; 'you little know how determined the whole set of them are to
withstand your authority.'

'But Mr Harding was so anxious for it,' said the bishop.

'Yes,' said Mr Slope, 'if he can hold it without the slightest acknowledgement of your lordship's
jurisdiction.'

'That is out of the question,' said the bishop.

'I should imagine it to be quite so,'said the chaplain.

'Indeed, I should think so,' said the lady.

'I really am sorry for it,' said the bishop.

'I don't know that there is much cause for sorrow,' said the lady. 'Mr Quiverful is a much
more deserving man, more in need of it, and one who will make himself much more useful in the
close neighbourhood of the palace.'

'I suppose I had better see Quiverful?' said the chaplain.

'I suppose you had,' said the bishop.

CHAPTER XIII

THE RUBBISH CART

Mr Harding was not a happy man as he walked down the palace pathway, and stepped out into the
close. His preferment and pleasant house were a second time gone from him; but that he could
endure. He had been schooled and insulted by a man young enough to be his son; but that he
could put up with. He could even draw from the very injuries, which had been inflicted on him,
some of that consolation, which we may believe martyrs always receive from the injuries of
their own sufferings, and which is generally proportioned in it strength to the extent of cruelty
with which martyrs are treated. He had admitted to his daughter that he wanted the comfort
of his old home, and yet he could have returned to his lodgings in the High Street, if not
with exultation, at least with satisfaction, had that been all. But the venom of the chaplain's
harangue had worked into his blood, and had sapped the life of his sweet contentment.

'New men are carrying out new measures, and are eating away the useless rubbish of past centuries.'
What cruel words these had been; and how often are they now used with all the heartless cruelty
of a Slope! A man is sufficiently condemned if it can only be shown that either in politics
or religion he does not belong to some new school established within the last score of years.
He may then regard himself as rubbish and expect to be carted away. A man is nothing now unless
he has within him a full appreciation of the new era; an ear in which it would seem that neither
honesty nor truth is very desirable, but in which success is the only touchstone of merit.
We must laugh at every thing that is established. Let the joke be ever so bad, ever so untrue
to the real principles of joking; nevertheless we must laugh--or else beware the cart. We must
talk, think, and live up to the spirit of the times, and write up to it too, if that cacoethes
be upon us, or else we are nought. New men and now measures, long credit and few scruples,
great success and wonderful ruin, such are now the tastes of Englishmen who know how to live.
Alas, alas! under the circumstances Mr Harding could not but feel that he was an Englishman
who did not know how to live. This new doctrine of Mr Slope and the rubbish cart, new at least
at Barchester, sadly disturbed his equanimity.

'The same thing is going on throughout the whole country!' 'Work is now required from every
man who receives wages!' and had he been living all his life receiving wages and doing no work?
Had he in truth so lived as to be now in his old age justly reckoned as rubbish fit only to
be hidden away in some huge dust hole? The school of men to whom he professes to belong, the
Grantlys, the Gwynnes, and the old high set of Oxford divines, are afflicted with no such self-accusations
as these which troubled Mr Harding. They, as a rule, are as satisfied with the wisdom and propriety
of their own conduct as can be any Mr Slope, or any Dr Proudie, with his own. But unfortunately
for himself, Mr Harding had little of this self-reliance. When he heard himself designated
as rubbish by the Slopes of the world, he had no other recourse than to make inquiry within
his own bosom as to the truth of the designation. Alas, alas! the evidence seemed generally
to go against him.

He had professed to himself in the bishop's parlour that in these coming sources of the sorrow
of the age, in these fits of sad regret from which the latter years of few reflecting men can
be free, religion would suffice to comfort him. Yes, religion could console him for the loss
of any worldly good; but was his religion of that active sort which would enable him so to
repent of misspent years as to pass those that were left to him in a spirit of hope for the
future? And such repentance itself, is it not a work of agony and of tears? It is very easy
to talk of repentance; but a man has to walk over hot ploughshares before he can complete it;
to be skinned alive as was St Bartholomew; to be stuck full of arrows as was St Sebastian;
to lie broiling on a gridiron like St Lorenzo! How if his past life required such repentance
as this? had he the energy to go through with it?

Mr Harding after leaving the palace, walked slowly for an hour or so beneath the shady elms
of the close, and then betook himself to his daughter's house. He had at any rate made up his
mind that he would go out to Plumstead to consult Dr Grantly, and that he would in the first
instance tell Eleanor what had occurred.

And now he was doomed to undergo another misery. Mr Slope had forestalled him at the widow's
house. He had called there on the preceding afternoon. He could not, he had said, deny himself
the pleasure of telling Mrs Bold that her father was about to return to the pretty house at
Hiram's hospital. He had been instructed by the bishop to inform Mr Harding that the appointment
would now be made at once. The bishop was of course only too happy to be able to be the means
of restoring to Mr Harding the preferment which he had so long adorned. And then by degrees
Mr Slope had introduced the subject of the pretty school which he had hoped before long to
see attached to the hospital. He had quite fascinated Mrs Bold by his description of this picturesque,
useful, and charitable appendage, and she had gone so far as to say that she had no doubt her
father would approve, and that she herself would gladly undertake a class.

Anyone who had heard the entirely different tone, and seen the entirely different manner in
which Mr Slope had spoken of this projected institution to the daughter and to the father,
would not have failed to own that Mr Slope was a man of genius. He said nothing to Mrs Bold
about the hospital sermons and services, nothing about the exclusion of the old men from the
cathedral, nothing about dilapidation and painting, nothing about carting away the rubbish.
Eleanor had said to herself that certainly she did not like Mr Slope personally, but that he
was a very active, zealous, clergyman, and would no doubt be useful in Barchester. All this
paved the way for much additional misery to Mr Harding.

Eleanor put on her happiest face as she heard her father on the stairs, for she thought she
had only to congratulate him; but directly she saw his face, she knew that there was but little
matter for congratulation. She had seen him with the same weary look of sorrow on one or two
occasions before, and remembered it well. She had seen him when he first read that attack upon
himself in the Jupiter, which had ultimately caused him to resign the hospital; and she had
seen him also when the archdeacon had persuaded him to remain there against his own sense of
propriety and honour. She knew at a glance that his spirit was in deep trouble.

'Oh, papa, what is it?' said she, putting down her boy to crawl upon the floor.

'I came to tell you, my dear,' said he, 'that I am going out to Plumstead: you won't come with
me, I suppose?'

'To Plumstead, papa? Shall you stay there?'

'I suppose I shall tonight: I must consult the archdeacon about this weary hospital. Ah me!
I wish I had never thought of it again.'

'Why, papa, what is the matter?'

'I've been with Mr Slope, my dear; and he isn't the pleasantest companion in the world, at
least not to me.' Eleanor gave a sort of half blush; but she was wrong if she imagined that
her father in any way alluded to her acquaintance with Mr Slope.

'Well, papa.'

'He wants to turn the hospital into a Sunday school and a preaching house; and I suppose he
will have his way. I do not feel myself adapted for such an establishment, and therefore, I
suppose, I must refuse the appointment.'

'What would be the harm of the school, papa?'

'The want of a proper schoolmaster, my dear.'

'But that would of course be supplied.'

'Mr Slope wishes to supply it by making me his schoolmaster. But as I am hardly fit for such
work, I intend to decline.'

'Oh, papa! Mr Slope doesn't intend that. He was here yesterday, and what he intends--'

'He was here yesterday, was he?' asked Mr Harding.

'Yes, papa.'

'And talking about the hospital?'

'He was saying how glad he would be, and the bishop too, to see you back there again. And then
he spoke about the Sunday school; and to tell the truth I agreed with him; and I thought you
would have done so too. Mr Slope spoke of a school, not inside the hospital, but just connected
with it, of which you would be the patron and visitor; and I thought you would have liked such
a school as that; and I promised to look after it and to take a class--and it all seemed so
very--. But, oh, papa! I shall be so miserable if I find that I have done wrong.'

'Nothing wrong at all, my dear,' said he, gently, very gently rejecting his daughter's caresses.
'There can be nothing wrong in your wishing to make yourself useful; indeed, you ought to do
so by all means. Every one must now exert himself who would not choose to go to the wall.'
Poor Mr Harding thus attempted in his misery to preach the new doctrine to his child. 'Himself
or herself, it's all the same,' he continued, 'you will be quite right, my dear, to do something
of this sort; but--'

'Well, papa.'

'I am not quite sure that if I were you I would select Mr Slope for my guide.'

'But I have never done so, and never shall.'

'It would be very wicked of me to speak evil of him, for to tell the truth I know no evil of
him; but I am not quite sure that he is honest. That he is not gentleman-like in his manners,
of that I am quite sure.'

'I never thought of taking him for my guide, papa.'

'As for myself, my dear,' continued he, 'we know the old proverb--"It's a bad thing teaching
an old dog new tricks." I must decline the Sunday school, and shall therefore probably decline
the hospital also. But I will first see your brother-in-law.' So he took up his hat, kissed
the baby, and withdrew, leaving Eleanor in as low spirits as himself.

All this was a great aggravation to his misery. He had so few with whom to sympathise, that
he could not afford to be cut off from the one whose sympathy was of the most value to him.
And yet it seemed probable that this would be the case. He did not own to himself that he wished
his daughter to hate Mr Slope; yet had she expressed such a feeling there would have been very
little bitterness in the rebuke he would have given her for so uncharitable a state of mind.
The fact, however, was that she was on friendly terms with Mr Slope, that she coincided with
his views, adhered at once to his plans, and listened with delight to his teaching. Mr Harding
hardly wished his daughter to hate the man, but he would have preferred that to her loving him.

He walked away to the inn to order a fly, went home to put up his carpet bag, and then started
for Plumstead. There was, at any rate, no danger that the archdeacon would fraternise with
Mr Slope; but then he would recommend internecine war, public appeals, loud reproaches, and
all the paraphernalia of open battle. Now that alternative was hardly more to Mr Harding's
taste than the other.

When Mr Harding reached the parsonage he found that the archdeacon was out, and would not be
home till dinner-time, so he began his complaint to his elder daughter. Mrs Grantly entertained
quite as strong an antagonism to Mr Slope as did her husband; she was also quite as alive to
the necessity of combatting the Proudie faction, of supporting the old church interest of the
close, of keeping in her own set much of the loaves and fishes as duly belonged to it; and
was quite as well prepared as her lord to carry on the battle without giving or taking quarter.
Not that she was a woman prone to quarrelling, or ill inclined to live at peace with her clerical
neighbours; but she felt, as did the archdeacon, that the presence of Mr Slope in Barchester
was an insult to every one connected with the late bishop, and that his assumed dominion in
the diocese was a spiritual injury to her husband. Hitherto people had little guessed how bitter
Mrs Grantly could be. She lived on the best of terms with all the rectors' wives around her.
She had been popular with all the ladies connected with the close. Though much the wealthiest
of the ecclesiastical matrons of the county, she had so managed her affairs that her carriage
and horses had given umbrage to none. She had never thrown herself among the county grandees
so as to excite the envy of other clergymen's wives. She had never talked too loudly of earls
and countesses, or boasted that she gave her governess sixty pounds a year, or her cook seventy.
Mrs Grantly had lived the life of a wise, discreet, peace-making woman; and the people of Barchester
were surprised at the amount of military vigour she displayed as general of the feminine Grantlyite
forces.

Mrs Grantly soon learnt that her sister Eleanor had promised to assist Mr Slope in the affairs
of the hospital; and it was on this point that her attention soon fixed itself.

'How can Eleanor endure him?' said she.

'He is a very crafty man,' said her father, 'and his craft has been successful in making Eleanor
think that he is a meek, charitable, good clergyman. God forgive me, if I wrong him, but such
is not his true character in my opinion.'

'His true character, indeed!' said she, with something approaching scorn for her father's moderation.
'I only hope he won't have craft enough to make Eleanor forget herself and her position.'

'Do you mean marry him?' said he, startled out of his usual demeanour by the abruptness and
horror of so dreadful a proposition.

'What is there so improbable in it? Of course that would be his own object if he thought he
had any chance of success. Eleanor has a thousand a year entirely at her own disposal, and
what better fortune could fall to Mr Slope's lot than the transferring of the disposal of such
a fortune to himself?'

'But you can't think she likes him, Susan?'

'Why not?' said Susan. 'Why shouldn't she like him? He's just the sort of man to get on with
a woman left as she is, with no one to look after her.'

'Look after her!' said the unhappy father; 'don't we look after her?'

'Ah, papa, how innocent you are! Of course it was to be expected that Eleanor should marry
again. I should be the last to advise her against it, if she would only wait the proper time,
and then marry at least a gentleman.'

'But you don't really mean to say that you suppose Eleanor has ever thought of marrying Mr
Slope? Why, Mr Bold has only been dead a year.'

'Eighteen months,' said his daughter. 'But I don't suppose Eleanor has ever thought about it.
It is very probable, though, that he has, and that he will try and make her do so; and that
he will succeed too, if we don't take care what we are about.'

This was quite a new phase of the affair to poor Mr Harding. To have thrust upon him as his
son-in-law, as the husband of his favourite child, the only man in the world whom he really
positively disliked, would be a misfortune which he felt he would not know how to endure patiently.
But then, could there be any ground for so dreadful a surmise? In all worldly matters he was
apt to look upon the opinion of his eldest daughter, as one generally sound and trustworthy.
In her appreciation of character, of motives, and the probable conduct both of men and women,
she was usually not far wrong. She had early foreseen the marriage of Eleanor and John Bold;
she had at a glance deciphered the character of the new bishop and his chaplain; could it possibly
be that her present surmise should ever come forth as true?'

'But you don't think that she likes him,' said Mr Harding again.

'Well, papa, I can't say that I think she dislikes him as she ought to do. Why is he visiting
there as a confidential friend, when he never ought to have been admitted inside the house?
Why is it that she speaks to him of about your welfare and your position, as she clearly has
done? At the bishop's party the other night, I saw her talking to him for half an hour at the
stretch.'

'I thought Mr Slope seemed to talk to nobody there but that daughter of Stanhope's,' said Mr
Harding, wishing to defend his child.

'Oh, Mr Slope is a cleverer man than you think of, papa, and keeps more than one iron in the fire.'

To give Eleanor her due, any suspicion as to the slightest inclination on her part towards
Mr Slope was a wrong to her. She had no more idea of marrying Mr Slope than she had of marrying
the bishop; and the idea that Mr Slope would present himself as a suitor had never occurred
to her. Indeed, to give her her due again, she had never thought about suitors since her husband's
death. But nevertheless it was true that she had overcome all that repugnance to the man which
was so strongly felt for him by the rest of the Grantly faction. She had forgiven him his sermon.
She had forgiven him his low church tendencies, his Sabbath schools, and puritanical observances.
She had forgiven his pharisaical arrogance, and even his greasy face and oily vulgar manners.
Having agreed to overlook such offences as these, why should she not in time be taught to regard
Mr Slope as a suitor?

And as to him, it must be affirmed that he was hitherto equally innocent of the crime imputed
to him. How it had come to pass that a man whose eyes were generally widely open to everything
had not perceived that this young widow was rich as well as beautiful, cannot probably now
be explained. But such was the fact. Mr Slope had ingratiated himself with Mrs Bold, merely
as he had done with other ladies, in order to strengthen his party in the city. He subsequently
attended his error; but it was not till after the interview with him and Mr Harding.

CHAPTER XIV

THE NEW CAMPAIGN

The archdeacon did not return to the parsonage till close upon the hour of dinner, and there
was therefore no time to discuss matters before that important ceremony. He seemed to be in
an especial good humour, and welcomed his father-in-law with a sort of jovial earnestness that
was usual with him when things on which was intent were going on as he would have them.

'It's all settled, my dear,' said he to his wife as he washed his hands in his dressing-room,
while she, according to her wont, sat listening in the bedroom; 'Arabin has agreed to accept
the living. He'll be here next week.' And the archdeacon scrubbed his hands and rubbed his
face with a violent alacrity, which showed that Arabin's coming was a great point gained.

'Will he come here to Plumstead?' said the wife.

'He has promised to stay a month with us,' said the archdeacon, 'so that he may see what his
parish is like. You'll like Arabin very much. He's a gentleman in every respect, and full of
good humour.'

'He's very queer, isn't he?' asked the wife.

'Well--he is a little odd in some of his fancies; but there's nothing about him you won't like.
He is as staunch a churchman as there is at Oxford. I really don't know what we should do without
Arabin. It's a great thing for me to have him so near me; and if anything can put Slope down,
Arabin will do it.'

The Reverend Francis Arabin was a fellow of Lazarus, the favoured disciple of the great Dr
Gwynne, a high churchman at all points; so high, indeed, that at one period of his career he
had all but toppled over into the cesspool of Rome; a poet and also a polemical writer, a great
pet in the common rooms at Oxford, an eloquent clergyman, a droll, odd, humorous, energetic,
conscientious man, and, as the archdeacon had boasted of him, a thorough gentleman. As he will
hereafter be brought more closely to our notice, it is now only necessary to add, that he had
just been presented to the vicarage of St Ewold by Dr Grantly, in whose gift as archdeacon
the living lay. St Ewold's is a parish lying just without the city of Barchester. The suburbs
of the new town, indeed, are partly within its precincts, and the pretty church and parsonage
are not much above a mile distant from the city gate.

St Ewold is not a rich piece of preferment--it is worth some three or four hundred a year,
at most, and has generally been held by a clergyman attached to the cathedral choir. The archdeacon,
however, felt, when the living on this occasion became vacant, that it imperatively behoved
him to aid the force of his party with some tower of strength, if any such tower could be got
to occupy St Ewold's. He had discussed the matter with his brethren in Barchester; not in any
weak spirit as the holder of patronage to be used for his own or his family's benefit, but
as one to whom was committed a trust, on the due administration of which much of the church's
welfare might depend. He had submitted to them the name of Mr Arabin, as though the choice
had rested with them all in conclave, and they had unanimously admitted that, if Mr Arabin
would accept St Ewold's no better choice could possibly be made.

If Mr Arabin would accept St Ewold's! There lay the difficulty. Mr Arabin was a man standing
somewhat prominently before the world, that is, before the Church of England world. He was
not a rich man, it is true, for he held no preferment but his fellowship; but he was a man
not over anxious for riches, not married of course, and one whose time was greatly taken up
in discussing, both in print and on platforms, the privileges and practices of the church to
which he belonged. As the archdeacon had done battle for its temporalities, so did Mr Arabin
do battle for its spiritualities; and both had done so conscientiously; that is, not so much
each for his own benefit as for that of others.

Holding such a position as Mr Arabin did, there was much reason to doubt whether he would consent
to become the parson of St Ewold's, and Dr Grantly had taken the trouble to go himself to Oxford
on the matter. Dr Gwynne and Dr Grantly together had succeeded in persuading this eminent divine
that duty required him to go Barchester. There were wheels within wheels in this affair. For
some time past Mr Arabin had been engaged in a tremendous controversy with no less a person
than Mr Slope, respecting the apostolic succession. These two gentlemen had never seen each
other, but they had been extremely bitter in print. Mr Slope had endeavoured to strengthen
his cause by calling Mr Arabin an owl, and Mr Arabin had retaliated by hinting that Mr Slope
was an infidel. This battle had been commenced in the columns of the daily Jupiter, a powerful
newspaper, the manager of which was very friendly to Mr Slope's view of the case. The matter,
however, had become too tedious for the readers of the Jupiter, and a little note had therefore
been appended to one of Mr Slope's most telling rejoinders, in which it had been stated that
no further letters from the reverend gentlemen could be inserted except as advertisements.

Other methods of publication were, however, found less expensive than advertisements in the
Jupiter; and the war went on merrily. Mr Slope declared that the main part of the consecration
of a clergyman was the self-devotion of the inner man to the duties of the ministry. Mr Arabin
contended that a man was not consecrated at all, had, indeed, no single attribute of a clergyman,
unless he became so through the imposition of some bishop's hands, who had become a bishop
through the imposition of other hands, and so on in a direct line to one of the apostles. Each
had repeatedly hung the other on the horns of a dilemma; but neither seemed to a whit the worse
for the hanging; and so the war went on merrily.

Whether or no the near neighbourhood of the foe may have acted in any way as an inducement
to Mr Arabin to accept the living of St Ewold, we will not pretend to say; but it had at any
rate been settled in Dr Gwynne's library, at Lazarus, that he would accept it, and that he
would lend his assistance towards driving the enemy out of Barchester, or, at any rate, silencing
him while he remained there. Mr Arabin intended to keep his rooms at Oxford, and to have the
assistance of a curate at St Ewold; but he promised to give as much time as possible to the
neighbourhood of Barchester, and from so great a man Dr Grantly was quite satisfied with such
a promise. It was no small part of the satisfaction derivable from such an arrangement that
Dr Proudie would be forced to institute into a living, immediately under his own nose, the
enemy of his favourite chaplain.

All through the dinner the archdeacon's good humour shone brightly in his face. He ate of the
good things heartily, he drank wine with his wife and daughter, he talked pleasantly of his
doings at Oxford, told his father-in-law that he ought to visit Dr Gwynne at Lazarus, and launched
out again in praise of Dr Arabin.

'Is Mr Arabin married, papa?' asked Griselda.

'No, my dear; the fellow of a college is never married.'

'Is he a young man, papa?'

'About forty, I believe,' said the archdeacon.

'Oh!' said Griselda. Had her father said eighty, Mr Arabin would not have appeared to her to
be very much older.

When the two gentlemen were left alone over their wine, Mr Harding told his tale of woe. But
even this, sad as it was, did not much diminish the archdeacon's good humour, though it greatly
added to his pugnacity.

'He can't do it,' said Dr Grantly over and over again, as his father-in-law explained to him
the terms on which the new warden of the hospital was to be appointed; 'he can't do it. What
he says is not worth the trouble of listening to. He can't alter the duties of the place.'

'Who can't?' asked the ex-warden.

'Neither can the bishop nor the chaplain, nor yet the bishop's wife, who, I take it, has really
more to say to such matters than either of the other two. The whole body corporate of the palace
together have no power to turn the warden of the hospital into a Sunday schoolmaster.'

'But the bishop has the power to appoint whom he pleases, and--'

'I don't know that; I rather think he'll find he has no such power. Let him try it, and see
what the press will say. For once we shall have the popular cry on our side. But Proudie, ass
as he is, knows the world too well to get such a hornet's nest about his ears.'

Mr Harding winced at the idea of the press. He had had enough of that sort of publicity, and
was unwilling to be shown up a second time either as a monster or as a martyr. He gently remarked
that he hoped the newspapers would not get hold of his name again, and then suggested that
perhaps it would be better that he should abandon his object. 'I am getting old,' said he;
'and after all I doubt whether I am fit to undertake new duties.'

'New duties!' said the archdeacon: 'don't I tell you there shall be no new duties?'

'Or, perhaps, old duties either,' said Mr Harding; 'I think I will remain content as I am.'
The picture of Mr Slope carting away the rubbish was still present to his mind.

The archdeacon drank off his glass of claret, and prepared himself to be energetic. 'I do hope,'
said he, 'that you are not going to be so weak as to allow such a man as Mr Slope to deter
you from doing what you know is your duty to do. You know that it is your duty to resume your
place at the hospital now that parliament has so settled the stipend as to remove those difficulties
which induced you to resign it. You cannot deny this; and should your timidity now prevent
you from doing so, your conscience will hereafter never forgive you;' and as he finished this
clause of his speech, he pushed over the bottle to his companion.

'Your conscience will never forgive you,' he continued. 'You resigned the place from conscientious
scruples, scruples which I greatly respected, though I did not share them. All your friends
respected them, and you left your old house as rich in reputation as you were ruined in fortune.
It is now expected that you will return. Dr Gwynne was saying only the other day--'

'Dr Gwynne does not reflect how much older a man I am now than when he last saw me.'

'Old--nonsense!' said the archdeacon; 'you never thought yourself old till you listened to
the impudent trash of that coxcomb at the palace.'

'I shall be sixty-five if I live till November,' said Mr Harding.

'And seventy-five if you live till November ten years,' said the archdeacon. 'And you bid fair
to be as efficient then as you were ten years ago. But for heaven's sake let us have no pretence
in this matter. Your plea of old age is only a pretence. But you're not drinking your wine.
It is only a pretence. The fact is, you are half afraid of this Slope, and would rather subject
yourself to comparative poverty and discomfort, than come to blows with a man who will trample
on you, if you let him.'

'I certainly don't like coming to blows, if I can help it.'

'Nor I neither--but sometimes we can't help it. This man's object is to induce you to refuse
the hospital, that he may put some creature of his own into it; that he may show his power,
and insult us all by insulting you, whose cause and character are so intimately bound up with
that of the chapter. You owe it to us all to resist him in this, even if you have no solicitude
for yourself. But surely, for your own sake, you will not be so lily-livered as to fall into
this trap which he has baited for you, and let him take the very bread out of your mouth without
a struggle.'

Mr Harding did not like being called lily-livered, and was rather inclined to resent it. 'I
doubt there is any true courage,' said he, 'in squabbling for money.'

'If honest men did not squabble for money, in this world of ours, the dishonest men would get
it all; and I do not see that the cause of virtue would be much improved. No,--we must use
the means which we have. If we were to carry your argument home, we might give away every shilling
of revenue which the church has; and I presume you are not prepared to say that the church
would be strengthened by such a sacrifice.' The archdeacon filled his glass and then emptied
it, drinking with much reverence a silent toast to the well-being and permanent security of
those temporalities which were so dear to his soul.

'I think all quarrels between a clergyman and his bishop should be avoided,' said Mr Harding.

'I think so too; but it is quite as much the duty of the bishop to look to that as of his inferior.
I tell you what, my friend; I'll see the bishop in this matter, that is, if you will allow
me; and you may be sure I will not compromise you. My opinion is, that all this trash about
Sunday-schools and the sermons has originated wholly with Slope and Mrs Proudie, and that the
bishop knows nothing about it. The bishop can't very well refuse to see me, and I'll come upon
him when he has neither his wife nor his chaplain by him. I think you'll find that it will
end in his sending you the appointment without any condition whatever. And as to the seats
in the cathedral, we may safely leave that to Mr Dean. I believe the fool positively thinks
that the bishop could walk away with the cathedral, if he pleased.'

And so the matter was arranged between them. Mr Harding had come expressly for advice, and
therefore felt himself bound to take the advice given him. He had known, moreover, beforehand,
that the archdeacon would not hear of his giving the matter up, and accordingly though he had
in perfect good faith put forward his own views, he was prepared to yield.

They therefore went into the drawing-room in good humour with each other, and the evening passed
pleasantly in prophetic discussion on the future wars of Arabin and Slope. The frogs had the
mice would be nothing to them, nor the angers of Agamemnon and Achilles. How the archdeacon
rubbed his hands, and plumed himself on the success of his last move. He could not himself
descend into the arena with Slope, but Arabin would have no such scruples. Arabin was exactly
the man for such work, and the only man whom he knew that was fit for it.

The archdeacon's good humour and high buoyancy continued till, when reclining on his pillow,
Mrs Grantly commenced to give him her view of the state of affairs in Barchester. And then
certainly he was startled. The last words he said that night were as follows:--

'If she does, by heaven, I'll never speak to her again. She dragged me into the mire once,
but I'll not pollute myself with such filth as that--' And the archdeacon gave a shudder which
shook the whole room, so violently was he convulsed with the thought which then agitated his mind.

Now in this matter, the widow Bold was scandalously ill-treated by her relatives. She had spoken
to the man three or four times, and had expressed her willingness to teach in a Sunday-school.
Such was the full extent of her sins in the matter of Mr Slope. Poor Eleanor! But time will show.

The next morning Mr Harding returned to Barchester, no further word having been spoken in his
hearing respecting Mr Slope's acquaintance with his younger daughter. But he observed that
the archdeacon at breakfast was less cordial than he had been on the preceding evening.

CHAPTER XV

THE WIDOW'S SUITORS

Mr Slope lost no time in availing himself of the bishop's permission to see Mr Quiverful, and
it was in his interview with this worthy pastor that he first learned that Mrs Bold was worth
the wooing. He rode out to Puddingdale to communicate to the embryo warden the good will of
the bishop in his favour, and during the discussion on the matter, it was unnatural that the
pecuniary resources of Mr Harding and his family should become the subject of remark.

Mr Quiverful, with his fourteen children and his four hundred a year, was a very poor man,
and the prospect of this new preferment, which was to be held together with his living, was
very grateful to him. To what clergyman so circumstanced would not such a prospect be very
grateful? But Mr Quiverful had long been acquainted with Mr Harding, and had received kindness
at his hands, so that his heart misgave him as he thought of supplanting a friend at the hospital.
Nevertheless, he was extremely civil, cringingly civil, to Mr Slope; treated him quite as the
great man; entreated this great man to do him the honour to drink a glass of sherry, at which,
as it was very poor Marsala, the now pampered Slope turned up his nose; and ended by declaring
his extreme obligation to the bishop and Mr Slope, and his great desire to accept the hospital,
if--if it were certainly the case that Mr Harding had refused it.

What man, as needy as Mr Quiverful, would have been more disinterested?

'Mr Harding did positively refuse it,' said Mr Slope, with a certain air of offended dignity,
'when he heard of the conditions to which the appointment is now subjected. Of course, you
understand, Mr Quiverful, that the same conditions will be imposed on yourself.'

Mr Quiverful cared nothing for the conditions. He would have undertaken to preach any number
of sermons Mr Slope might have chosen to dictate, and to pass every remaining hour of his Sundays
within the walls of a Sunday school. What sacrifices, or, at any rate, what promises, would
have been too much to make for such an addition to his income, and for such a house! But his
mind still recurred to Mr Harding.

'To be sure,' said he; 'Mr Harding's daughter is very rich, and why should he trouble himself
with the hospital?'

'You mean Mrs Grantly,' said Slope.

'I meant the widowed daughter,' said the other. 'Mrs Bold has twelve hundred a year of her
own, and I suppose Mr Harding means to live with her.'

'Twelve hundred a year of her own!' said Slope, and very shortly afterwards took his leave,
avoiding, as far as it was possible for him to do, any further allusion to the hospital. Twelve
hundred a year, said he to himself, as he rode slowly home. If it were the fact that Mrs Bold
had twelve hundred a year of her own, what a fool would he be to oppose her father's return
to his old place. The train of Mr Slope's ideas will probably be plain to all my readers. Why
should he not make the twelve hundred a year his own? And if he did so, would it not be well
for him to have a father-in-law comfortably provided with the good things of this world? Would
it not, moreover, be much more easy for him to gain his daughter, if he did all in his power
to forward his father's views?

These questions presented themselves to him in a very forcible way, and yet there were many
points of doubt. If he resolved to restore to Mr Harding his former place, he must take the
necessary steps for doing so at once; he must immediately talk over the bishop, quarrel on
the matter with Mrs Proudie whom he knew he could not talk over, and let Mr Quiverful know
that he had been a little too precipitate as to Mr Harding's positive refusal. That he could
effect all this, he did not doubt; but he did not wish to effect it for nothing. He did not
wish to give way to Mr Harding, and then be rejected by the daughter. He did not wish to lose
one influential friend before he had gained another.

And thus he rode home, meditating the many things in his mind. It occurred to him that Mrs
Bold was sister-in-law to the archdeacon; and that not even for twelve hundred a year would
he submit to that imperious man. A rich wife was a great desideratum to him, but success in
his profession was still greater; there were, moreover, other rich women who might be willing
to become wives; and after all, this twelve hundred a year might, when inquired into, melt
away into some small sum utterly beneath his notice. Then also he remembered that Mrs Bold
had a son.

Another circumstance also much influenced him, though it was one which may almost be said to
have influenced him against his will. The vision of Signora Neroni was perpetually before his
eyes. It would be too much to say that Mr Slope was lost in love, but yet he thought, and kept
continually thinking, that he had never seen so beautiful a woman. He was a man whose nature
was open to such impulses, and the wiles of the Italianised charmer had been thoroughly successful
in imposing upon his thoughts. We will not talk of his heart: not that he had no heart, but
because his heart had little to do with his present feelings. His taste had been pleased, his
eyes charmed, and his vanity gratified. He had been dazzled by a sort of loveliness which he
had never before seen, and had been caught by an easy, free, voluptuous manner which was perfectly
new to him. He had never been so tempted before, and the temptation was now irresistible. He
had not owned to himself that he cared for this woman more than for others around him; but
yet he thought often of the time when he might see her next, and made, almost unconsciously,
little cunning plans for seeing her frequently.

He had called at Dr Stanhope's house the day after the bishop's party, and then the warmth
of his admiration had been fed with fresh fuel. If the signora had been kind in her manner,
and flattering in her speech when lying upon the bishop's sofa, with the eyes of so many on
her, she had been much more so in her mother's drawing-room, with no one present but her sister
to repress either her nature or her art. Mr Slope had thus left her quite bewildered, and could
not willingly admit into his brain any scheme, a part of which would be the necessity of abandoning
all further special relationship with this lady.

And so he slowly rode along very meditative.

And here the author must beg it to be remembered that Mr Slope was not in all things a bad
man. His motives, like those of most men, were mixed; and though his conduct was generally
very different from that which we would wish to praise, it was actuated perhaps as often as
that of the majority of the world by a desire to do his duty. He believed in the religion which
he taught, harsh, unpalatable, uncharitable as that religion was. He believed those whom he
wished to get under his hoof, the Grantlys and Gwynnes of the church, to be the enemies of
that religion. He believed himself to be the pillar of strength, destined to do great things;
and with that subtle, selfish, ambiguous sophistry to which the minds of all men are so subject,
he had taught himself to think that in doing much for the promotion of his own interests he
was doing much also for the promotion of religion. Mr Slope had never been an immoral man.
Indeed, he had resisted temptations to immorality with a strength of purpose that was creditable
to him. He had early in life devoted himself to works which were not compatible with the ordinary
pleasures of youth, and he had abandoned such pleasures not without a struggle. It must therefore
be conceived that he did not admit to himself that he warmly admired the beauty of a married
woman without heartfelt stings of conscience; and to pacify that conscience, he had to teach
himself that the nature of his admiration was innocent.

And thus he rode along meditative and ill at ease. His conscience had not a word to say against
his choosing the widow and her fortune. That he looked upon as a godly work rather than otherwise;
as a deed which, if carried through, would redound to his credit as a Christian. On that side
lay no future remorse, no conduct which he might probably have to forget, no inward stings.
If it should turn out to be really the fact that Mrs Bold had twelve hundred a year at her
own disposal, Mr Slope would rather look upon it as a duty which he owed his religion to make
himself the master of the wife and the money; as a duty, too, in which some amount of self-sacrifice
would be necessary. He would have to give up his friendship with the signora, his resistance
to Mr Harding, his antipathy--no, he found on mature self-examination, that he could not bring
himself to give up his antipathy to Dr Grantly. He would marry the lady as the enemy of her
brother-in-law, if such an arrangement suited her; if not, she must look elsewhere for a husband.

It was with such resolve as this that he reached Barchester. He would at once ascertain what
the truth might be as to the lady's wealth, and having done this, he would be ruled by circumstances
in his conduct respecting the hospital. If he found that he could turn round and secure the
place for Mr Harding without much self-sacrifice, he would do so; but if not, he would woo
the daughter in opposition to the father. But in no case would he succumb to the archdeacon.

He saw his horse taken round to the stable, and immediately went forth to commence his inquiries.
To give Mr Slope his due, he was not a man who ever let much grass grow under his feet.

Poor Eleanor! She was doomed to be the intended victim of more schemes than one.

About the time that Mr Slope was visiting the vicar of Puddingdale, a discussion took place
respecting her charms and wealth at Dr Stanhope's house in the close. There had been morning
callers there, and people had told some truth and also some falsehood respecting the property
which John Bold had left behind him. By degrees the visitors went, and as the doctor went with
them, and as the doctor's wife had not made her appearance, Charlotte Stanhope and her brother
were left together. He was sitting idly at the table, scrawling caricatures of Barchester notable,
then yawning, then turning over a book or two, and evidently at a loss how kill some time without
much labour.

'You haven't done much, Bertie, about getting any orders,' said his sister.

'Orders!' said he; 'who on earth is there at Barchester to give some orders? Who among the
people here could possibly think it worth his while to have his head done into marble?'

'Then you mean to give up your profession,' said she.

'No, I don't,' said he, going on with some absurd portrait of the bishop. 'Look at that, Lotte;
isn't it the little man all over, apron and all? I'd go on with my profession at once, as you
call it, if the governor would set me up with a studio in London; but as to sculpture at Barchester--I
suppose half the people here don't know what a torso means.'

'The governor will not give you a shilling to start you in London,' said Lotte. 'Indeed, he
can't give you what would be sufficient, for he has not got it. But you might start yourself
very well, if you pleased.'

'How the deuce am I to do it?' said he.

'To tell you the truth, Bertie, you'll never make a penny by any profession.'

'That's what I often think myself,' said he, not in the least offended. 'Some men have a great
gift of making money, but they can't spend it. Others can't put two shillings together, but
they have a great talent for all sorts of outlay. I begin to think that my genius is wholly
in the latter line.'

'How do you mean to live then?' asked the sister.

'I suppose I must regard myself as a young raven, and look for heavenly manna; besides, we
have all got something when the governor goes.'

'Yes--you'll have enough to supply yourself with gloves and boots; that is, if the Jews have
not got the possession of it all. I believe they have the most of it already. I wonder, Bertie,
at your indifference; that you, with your talents and personal advantages, should never try
to settle yourself in life. I look forward with dread to the time when the governor must go.
Mother, and Madeline, and I,--we shall be poor enough, but you will have absolutely nothing.'

'Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof,' said Bertie.

'Will you take my advice?' said the sister.

'Cela depend,' said the brother.

'Will you marry a wife with money?'

'At any rate,' said he, 'I won't marry one without; wives with money a'nt so easy to get now-a-days;
the parsons pick them all up.'

'And a parson will pick up the wife I meant for you, if you do not look quickly about it; the
wife I mean is Mrs Bold.'

'Whew-w-w-w!' whistled Bertie, 'a widow!'

'She is very beautiful,' said Charlotte.

'With a son and heir already to my hand,' said Bertie.

'A baby that will very likely die,' said Charlotte.

'I don't see that,' said Bertie. 'But however, he may live for me--I don't wish to kill him;
only, it must be owned that a ready-made family is a drawback.'

'There is only one after all,' pleaded Charlotte.

'And that a very little one, as the maid-servant said,' rejoined Bertie.

'Beggars mustn't be choosers, Bertie; you can't have everything.'

'God knows I am not unreasonable,' said he, 'nor yet opinionated; and if you'll arrange it
for me, Lotte, I'll marry the lady. Only mark this: the money must be sure, and the income
at my own disposal, at any rate for the lady's life.'

Charlotte was explaining to her brother that he must make love for himself if he meant to carry
on the matter, and was encouraging him to so, by warm eulogiums on Eleanor's beauty, when the
signora was brought into the drawing-room. When at home, and subject to the gaze of none but
her own family, she allowed herself to be dragged about by two persons, and her two bearers
now deposited her on the sofa. She was not quite so grand in her apparel as she had been at
the bishop's party, but yet she was dressed with much care, and though there was a look of
care and pain about her eyes, she, was, even by daylight, extremely beautiful.

'Well, Madeline; so I'm going to be married,' Bertie began, as soon as the servants had withdrawn.

'There's no other foolish thing left, that you haven't done,' said Madeline, 'and therefore
you are quite right to try that.'

'Oh, you think it's a foolish thing, do you?' said he. 'There's Lotte advising me to marry
by all means. But on such a subject your opinion ought to be the best; you have experience
to guide you.'

'Yes, I have,' said Madeline, with a sort of harsh sadness in her tone, which seemed to say--What
is it to you if I am sad? I have never asked your sympathy.

Bertie was sorry when he saw that she was hurt by what he said, and he came and squatted on
the floor close before her face to make his peace with her.

'Come, Mad, I was only joking; you know that. But in sober earnest, Lotte is advising me to
marry. She wants me to marry Mrs Bold. She's a widow with lots of tin, a fine baby, a beautiful
complexion, and the George and Dragon hotel up in High Street. By Jove, Lotte, if I marry her,
I'll keep the public house myself--it's just the life that suits me.'

'What?' said Madeline, 'that vapid swarthy creature in the widow's cap, who looked as though
her clothes had been stuck on her back with a pitchfork!' The signora never allowed any woman
to be beautiful.

'Instead of being vapid,' said Lotte, 'I call her a very lovely woman. She was by far the loveliest
woman in the rooms the other night; that is, excepting you, Madeline.'

Even the compliment did not soften the asperity of the maimed beauty. 'Every woman is charming
according to Lotte,' she said; 'I never knew an eye with so little true appreciation. In the
first place, what woman on earth could look well in such a thing as that she had on her head?'

'Of course she wears a widow's cap; but she'll put that off when Bertie marries her.'

'I don't see any "of course" in it,' said Madeline. 'The death of twenty husbands should not
make me undergo such a penance. It is as much a relic of paganism as the sacrifice of a Hindu
woman at the burning of her husband's body. If not so bloody, it is quite as barbarous, and
quite as useless.'

'But you don't blame her for that,' said Bertie. 'She does it because it's the custom of the
country. People would think ill of her if she didn't do it.'

'Exactly,' said Madeline. 'She is just one of those English nonentities who would tie her head
up in a bag for three months every summer, if her mother and her grandmother had tied up their
heads before her.

'What you mean is, that it's very hard for a fool not to be a fool,' said Madeline.

Bertie Stanhope had so much knocked about the world from his earliest years, that he had not
retained much respect for the gravity of English customs; but even to his mind an idea presented
itself, that, perhaps in a wife, true British prejudice would not in the long run be less agreeable
than Anglo-Italian freedom from restraint. He did not exactly say so, but he expressed the
idea in another way. I interpret,
perhaps I'm wrong, but it seems to me that she wonders: "Would I like Paco, when he saw him
in town, as it should like a boyfriend to his girlfriend? "I loved only brother? And if I liked as
a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because the people I had not seen other men who
deserve it more? Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and to find, when
you see him, well under the memory itself? In its own soul, can not be such a phenomenon?
Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I said that I loved
when we lived together, and Now, I do not see three years ago, I declared his love and wants
to marry me. What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not solve any doubt that
the assault. I understand, then, that what you want, but dared not tell me, is that you come
by here; only way for her to see clearly everything to convince you love, and understanding if
she loves you, all the charms prefiriéndote Madrid, which, indeed, are a thousand times smaller
than you think, for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has
no reason to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and then talk, then
I say yes or you'll squash. "This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must stay
there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have to be
from the past.

"For men of a certain class and married women with certain conditions this life is terrible.

"To
you alone, you're my closest friend and loyal, I can tell you, and
I can not help you tell you, in order to alleviate the weight of my
troubled heart, I am very unhappy.

"Beatriz married me for love. Despite the big age difference, I wanted to, not being inferior
to those seen here.

I think that Beatrice is loving me, but the fear that I miss the affection, the suspicion that
the high opinion of me stooping to be formed continuous, it constantly startled me.

"The contempt is contagious. By dint of looking at my wife the poor
performance I do, I neglected I am, the lowly position I hold, do
not end up neglected, too?

Do not end up hate me if I considered that the victim of my bad luck? Hence, although poor,
was a lady of the first. Here is the wife of a dark and miserable
clerk, whom nobody pays any attention.

"I have my theory, I comfort of my bad luck and bag except my pride. But How to convert my wife and
make a believer of my theory? Does not it seem fake?

"My theory is as follows. I believe that understanding is one, and I imagine a tool for measure you
like the thermometer. Let's get it 100 degrees, which is round number, and 20, in my opinion,
sufficient for all practical life, if fortune is blowing and the circumstances are favorable.
With the 20 degrees it becomes minister extolled, prince of great merit, president of a republic,
a banker and even powerful cardinal and pope. To make all these moderately papers just half the
degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables of the highest
social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20 will be not only
useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest, you will think in many cases
unnecessary, not think that fools you stirred up hatred of other men, or will make you look
as an oddball, quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the 100, which and grades are
genius. May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think you're a genius or you're
close to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required 100 degrees well
covered, and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny brings out. Then appear
Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not appear to be more
deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding, needed
to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst of civilization or environment
around us. It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more degrees
to the practical, and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only two or
three degrees. Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning,
a certain instinct little higher than wild beasts. All grades of understanding on this was then
a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now, as the war have been applied to mathematics
and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the stock market in the Congress, in commercial
and industrial companies, not shooting arrows, but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and
other projectiles complicated grades needed are 20. Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple
of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible
nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense deeper, more philosophical, most momentous
of the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful. All fired the shots that escape through
white top. Well above the critical killer all inspiration and kills you. Do not do a thousand
things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives.

Instead, what you do to seem unobtrusive, or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which
is often deplorable, seems silly to everyone.

"This is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking the
innocent vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the ready in deepest philosophical
meaning of the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted for my wife. She does not look
it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect, consideration and
flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress that makes this evil in the
heart it. In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me.

I compare your doctor when he notices the progress of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the
damage is to do and not even know how to avoid or remedy.

"I see too well clear contempt for me that is slowly entering the
heart of Beatrice and devouring the affection that I have.

        But how to prevent this? How do I prove
      I'm worth more than the blessed and exalted and rich?

The speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer
on a high opinion of my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing,
and I'm puny and ugly as hell.

I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What is the devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

And without hesitation I answer: Nothing.

Soon there will be nothing left for me in the heart of it, but offensive compassion, if not spend
all that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for me. Well our immortal writer says:
"And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone you pity.

"

"I explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with someone my troubles. That's why I entrust
you. Beatriz sees nothing. How, why, for what reason to complain to her and she?

"I love her with all my heart, and need to be happy that she loves
me and respect me.

But that that love requires love is a lie. Nor do I want to love me and respect me for fulfill
an obligation, under a contract.

"I see, then, I'll lose everything in the soul of Beatrice, and do not give to know that I
see.

Clearly perceive the abyss I'll fall, and keep walking towards it,
not that I can turn the other way or fill up the gap.

"This is my horrible situation. No one, or yourself, should trust it, but need to deposit someone
my secret pain. Come over here to comfort me. See also Inesita. Did you love. It is a good
and loving as Beatrice, and has no ambition and Beatrice. Besides, you are young and good
looking ... What nonsense I get married! But what could he do if he was in love? Who will take
my glory of being loved by her? She has loved me, she loves me still. How am I going to regret?
Who, for fear of losing it, he regrets having done? "

Such was the letter from Don Braulio, which closed carefully and certified to not be lost, before
confiding to the mail.

Made and their delicate and pathetic confidences felt more relieved and serene, and available
resigned to fulfill the promise to bring that night and Ines Beatriz to Jardines del Buen Retiro.

VII

Dramatic
poets have to talk to their characters according to the nature, condition and passions that
they represent, but in such a narrow box, such as a drama, there is good how to put corrective
to the evil doctrines or statements that such immoral characters
may issue.

So dramatic poets poor fluctuate between two rocks. Or converted to their heroes and heavy
annoying preachers, or, if allowed to speak as that naturally inspires passion, commit to respond
to posterity, and if their works do not go that far, to his contemporaries, all losses, delusions
and dreams that forcibly put into the mouths of the children of his
imagination, heated and vehement.

Thus, for illustrious example of this, we quote Euripides, who, since ancient times, have accused
of corrupting.

We know that Caesar, in order to justify all the insolence and wickedness that he used to seize the
dictatorship, often repeated some verses of tragic mentioned.

I am generally very opposed to teach anything entertaining works of literature, and a thousand
times opposite if highest education is sinful. For this I write novels, not drama. In novel explanations
fit all: achieving poison antidote is administered.

The author may take the floor in the middle of the narrative and contradict his characters, mitigating
or followed by drowning in the bad effect that the views of any of them were produced.

Taking advantage of this permit, and to quiet my conscience, scrupulous tired, I have now speak
of Don Braulio and his letter, which contains risky propositions certainly and that, believed by
the naive reader might pervert one of the ugliest perversions known:
the genius considered understood exceed unjustly neglected.

Don Braulio worked as a black in office, passed by an employee honest and intelligent and not discovered
his genius or semigenio fumes but as quietly as his closest friend.

Proudly served his theory of comfort, or at least relief, in certain
bitterness and suspicion, tormented him cruelly, without knowing yet
how much had Beatriz reason for this.

Don Braulio, finally, if deemed victim, did not blame society as a whole, nor any individual
uniquely, but assumed that all emanated, by fatally and inevitably of the same kind of things.

In
sum, Mr. Braulio, melancholy temperament, little favored by fortune, and love and jealous not
know who, perhaps delirious forging theories, but would not let such theories transcended into practice,
and seemed, in view of more lynx, as an employee modest I knew all that mattered was to know
and care as do to earn the salary conscience and not defraud the public purse or take the hospice
offices for people frock coat or privileged beggars.

As for the theory itself, there is little to say against, but here we will not philosophize, but to narrate.
I will say, however, that even assuming that each degree of culture that society is coming only
require a certain degree of understanding for the practical and daily, and other grades are
entirely superfluous, useless and even harmful, except in exceptional cases, still will have
to concede that the understanding is not the only power the soul that goes to the man to be
achieved, the will, character, also fall by much.

Moreover, the understanding, in essence, is similar to God nobody sees, nobody know, nobody but reverence
and respect in their work. So Don Braulio, or any another might have more than 20 degrees of
understanding, in their feelings, were necessary or convenient for the practical, but when
plus, when this surplus is not intellectual says nothing, but ruin the understanding that is in
use, there is no reason to complain that the world does not applaud or awe of the invisible and
hidden that can not fathom, nor penetrate, nor fathom. Who knows if the self-deceiving and makes
many people believe that have that understanding excessive and unnecessary, and may not have but
a superlative dose fatuity?

And if love does not deceive himself, if in fact we have such superior understanding and do not reach
favorable circumstances is shown, it is best to keep quiet, resigned and live as men live less
clear, with no claim to genius, but by working humbly to make a living,
trying to equal footing with vulgar beings, and reserving the upper
understanding to talk to God or supernatural beings, or inner conversation
with yourself, if you do not believe anything the semigenio, or whether,
despite their mental status, no angels nor deign to descend from the
sky deities of Olympus, or to take with him awhile of gab.

I'm going to put in case the life of Spinoza. This will better explain
my idea.

Let us imagine that this wise not have written his philosophical works, for whatever reason had been
carried to the grave the secret of his admirable, if misplaced, fitness
for deeper speculation metaphysical.

It is clear that this extraordinary man overwhelmed by its sublime
and strange thoughts would not have been in practical life or rich
manufacturer, or merchant blissful and astute politician, and nothing
in this order, but had worked on polishing glass for lenses or make
shoes, or any other office or need a mechanic, and had not taken in
pretense of being the genius to be a bum without a job or benefit,
and what is worse, not a bum fun and enjoyable, but a vague whining
and crying or maldicente, caustic and poisonous like snakes.

Apologize,
then, or at least we indulge our Don Braulio, whose pride was hidden
in the center of the soul, revealing only the most intimate of his
friends at the moment in which also showed the deepest wounds of his
heart. 

Don Braulio had felt the need to trust their sentences to
a friend, in order not to drown; but otherwise this confidence, if
something was sinned by by concentrated and full of dissimulation.

His
wife had not noticed this annoyance, that suspicion that suffocating
the soul.

His wife seemed to love him, but his happy nature and his
early youth the excited the joy and drove to work to distract and
amuse.

Beatriz was not wasted, but ordered and economic.

'He's a great bit naughty boy,' said she to the child; 'and we must sent him away to a great
big rough romping school, where they have great big rods, and do terrible things to naughty
boys who don't do what their own mammas tell them;' and she then commenced another course of
kissing, being actuated thereto by the terrible idea of sending her child away which her own
imagination had depicted.

'And where the masters don't have such beautiful long hair to be dishevelled,' said Mr Slope,
taking up the joke and paying a compliment at the same time.

Eleanor thought he might as well have left the compliment alone; but she said nothing and looked
nothing, being occupied as she was with the baby.

'Let me take him,' said Mary. 'His clothes are nearly off his back with his romping,' and so
saying she left the room with the child. Miss Bold had heard Mr Slope say he had something
pressing to say to Eleanor, and thinking that she might be de trop, took the opportunity of
getting herself out of the room.

'Don't be long, Mary,' said Eleanor, as Miss Bold shut the door.

'I am glad, Mrs Bold, to have the opportunity of having ten minutes' conversation with you
alone,' began Mr Slope. 'Will you let me openly ask you a plain question?'

'Certainly,' said she.

'And I am sure you will give me a plain and open answer.'

'Either that or none at all,' said she, laughing.

'My question is this, Mrs Bold; is your father really anxious to get back to the hospital?'

'Why do you ask me?' said she. 'Why don't you ask himself?'

'My dear Mrs Bold, I'll tell you why. There are wheels within wheels, all of which I would
explain to you, only I fear there is not time. It is essentially necessary that I should have
an answer to this question, otherwise I cannot know how to advance your father's wishes; and
it is quite impossible that I should ask himself. No one can esteem your father more than I
do, but I doubt if this feeling is reciprocal.' It certainly was not. 'I must be candid with
you as the only means of avoiding ultimate consequences, which may be most injurious to Mr
Harding. I fear there is a feeling, I will not even call it a prejudice, with regard to myself
in Barchester, which is not in my favour. You remember the sermon--'

'Oh! Mr Slope, we need not go back to that,' said Eleanor.

'For one moment, Mrs Bold. It is not that I may talk of myself, but because it is so essential
that you should understand how matters stand. That sermon may have been ill-judged,--it was
certainly misunderstood; but I will say nothing about that now; only this, that it did give
rise to a feeling against myself which your father shares with others. It may be that he has
proper cause, but the result is that he is not inclined to meet me on friendly terms. I put
it to yourself whether you do not know this to be the case.'

Eleanor made no answer, and Mr Slope, in the eagerness of his address, edged his chair a little
nearer to the widow's seat, unperceived by her.

'Such being so,' continued Mr Slope, 'I cannot ask him this question as I can ask it of you.
In spite of my delinquencies since I came to Barchester you have allowed me to regard you as
a friend.' Eleanor made a little motion with her head which was hardly confirmatory, but Mr
Slope if he noticed it, did not appear to do so. 'To you I can speak openly, and explain the
feelings of my heart. This your father would not allow. Unfortunately the bishop has thought
it right that this matter of the hospital should pass through my hands. There have been some
details to get up with which he would not trouble himself, and thus it has come to pass that
I was forced to have an interview with your father on the matter.'

'I am aware of that,' said Eleanor.

'Of course,' said he. 'In that interview Mr Harding left the impression on my mind that he
did not wish to return to the hospital.'

'How could that be?' said Eleanor, at last stirred up to forget the cold propriety of demeanour
which she had determined to maintain.

'My dear Mrs Bold, I give you my word that such was the case,' said he, again getting a little
nearer to her. 'And what is more than that, before my interview with Mr Harding, certain persons
at the palace, I do not mean the bishop, had told me that such was the fact. I own, I hardly
believed it; I own, I thought that your father would wish on every account, for conscience'
sake, for the sake of those old men, for old association, and the memory of dear days gone
by, on every account I thought that he would wish to resume his duties. But I was told that
such was not his wish; and he certainly left me with the impression that I had been told the
truth.'

'Well!' said Eleanor, now sufficiently roused on the matter.

'I fear Miss Bold's step,' said Mr Slope, 'would it be asking too great a favour to beg you
to--I know you can manage anything with Miss Bold.'

Eleanor did not like the word manage, but still she went out, and asked Mary to leave them
alone for another quarter of an hour.

'Thank you, Mrs Bold,--I am so very grateful for this confidence. Well, I left your father
with this impression. Indeed, I may say that he made me understand that he declined the appointment.'

'Not the appointment,' said Eleanor. 'I am sure he did not decline the appointment. But he
said that he would not agree,--that is, that he did not like the scheme about the schools,
and the services, and all that. I am quite sure he never said he wished to refuse the place.'

'Oh, Mrs Bold!' said Mr Slope, in a manner almost impassioned. 'I would not, for the world,
say to so good a daughter a word against so good a father. But you must, for his sake, let
me show you exactly how the matter stands at present. Mr Harding was a little flurried when
I told him of the bishop's wishes about the school. I did so, perhaps, with less caution because
you yourself had so perfectly agreed with me on the same subject. He was a little put out and
spoke warmly. "Tell the bishop," said he, "that I quite disagree with him,--and shall not return
to the hospital as such conditions are attached to it." What he said was to that effect; indeed,
his words were, if anything, stronger than those. I had no alternative but to repeat them to
his lordship, who said that he could look on them in no other light than a refusal. Where I
find it? Society is not virtuous or vicious. What are the people who compose it. And the vice
is more common virtue. "

Sometimes thought Don Braulio:

"If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make
fun of me ... and with good reason. I would distrust samples not I honor and honor to my life partner.
Would believe that the suspected light or easily. My wife would exert
against a tyrannical act, which would also have something libelous.

She would then have reason to stop loving me ... to hate ... maybe to despise. "

The mere assumption that his wife came to not love him, hate him or despise him ... waving nerves
unhappy.

He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing tempest
of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.

Ines Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita
everywhere, and not failed to seize it.

Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently. Then I used to feel the most opposite
emotions. Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by him.

The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him. Recognized tired,
melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose
clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior to what in his own being
noticed and appreciated, but they were at the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable
and more easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner,
youth, physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment,
lightness and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy
his wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.

Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was deemed
inadequate. The waltz was his despair. It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful, lovely
waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by young
people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and strong
for all this. Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy. Back in
his conscience, yet secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman, he would
be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man who had such skills. So he gave
the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul, if the overnight
he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz, ride, fence,
fight, hunting and cycles.

Don Braulio just wanted to believe in spiritualism of women when they often prefer to the above
skills other manly virtues, but even so, what evidence there given him these other virtues? What
battle was won? What poem was written? What speech was delivered in Parliament? How much money was
earned in the stock market in the game or business? What picture was painted? What statue was carved?
What brand system philosophy had created in his mind?

What new machine or contrivance had given the industry human?

Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes,
which instilled shame. He was unnerved and prostrate.

He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet. Appeared to him worthy
of a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks
and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich,
to award merit, skill, poetry, science and daring with a sweet look
of love.

Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping,
that was a miserable possessor.

Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted
to all men of the party of her friend. His joy was talkative, his
speech, delightful. She was quite aware that her father would not be
at all thankful to Mr Slope; she had a strong wish to share her father's feelings; and yet
she could not but acknowledge that Mr Slope was very kind. Her father, who was generally charitable
to all men, who seldom spoke ill of any one, had warned against Mr Slope, and yet she did not
know how to abstain from thanking him. What interest could he have in the matter but that which
he professed? Nevertheless there was that in his manner which even she distrusted. She felt,
and she did not know why, that there was something about him which ought to put her on her guard.

Mr Slope read all this in her hesitating manner just as plainly as though she had opened her
heart to him. It was the talent of the man that he could so read the inward feelings of women
with whom he conversed. He knew that Eleanor was doubting him, and that if she thanked him
she would only do so because she could not help it; but yet this did not make him angry or
even annoy him. Rome was not built in a day.

'I did not come for thanks,' continued he, seeing her hesitation; 'and do not want them--at
any rate before they are merited. But this I do want, Mrs Bold, that I may make myself friends
in this fold to which it has pleased God to call me as one of the humblest of his shepherds.
If I cannot do so, my task here must indeed be a sad one. I will at any rate endeavour to deserve
them.'

'I'm sure,' said she, 'you will soon make plenty of friends.'
 She felt herself obliged to say something.

'That will be nothing unless they are such as will sympathise with my feelings; unless they
are such as I can reverence and admire--and love. If the best and purest turn away from me,
I cannot bring myself to be satisfied with the friendship of the less estimable. In such case
I must live alone.'

'Oh! I'm sure you will not do that, Mr Slope.' Eleanor meant nothing, but it suited him to
appear that some special allusion had been intended.

'Indeed, Mrs Bold, I shall live alone, quite alone as far as the heart is concerned, if those
with whom I yearn to ally myself turn away from me. But enough of this; I have called you my
friend, and I hope you will not contradict me. I trust the time may come when I may also call
your father so. My God bless you, Mrs Bold, you and your darling boy. And tell your father
from me that what can be done for his interest shall be done.'

And so he took his leave, pressing the widow's hand rather more closely than usual. Circumstances,
however, seemed just then to make this intelligible, and the lady did not feel called on to
resent it.

'I cannot understand him,' said Eleanor to Mary Bold, a few minutes afterwards. 'I do not know
whether he is a good man or a bad man--whether he is true or false.'

'Then give him the benefit of the doubt,' said Mary, 'and believe the best.'

'On the whole I think I do,' said Eleanor. 'I think I do believe that he means well--and if
so, it is a shame that we should revile him, and make him miserable while he is among us. But,
oh Mary, I fear papa will be disappointed in the hospital.'

CHAPTER XVII

WHO SHALL BE COCK OF THE WALK?

All this time things were going on somewhat uneasily at the palace. The hint or two which Mr
Slope had given was by no means thrown away upon the bishop. He had a feeling that if he ever
meant to oppose the now almost unendurable despotism of his wife, he must lose no further time
in doing so; that if he even meant to be himself master in his own diocese, let alone his own
house, he should begin at once. It would have been easier to have done so from the day of his
consecration than now, but easier now than when Mrs Proudie should have succeeded in thoroughly
mastering the diocesan details. Then the proffered assistance of Mr Slope was a great thing
for him, a most unexpected and invaluable aid. Hitherto he had looked on the two as allied
forces; and had considered that as allied they were impregnable. He had begun to believe that
his only chance of escape would be by the advancement of Mr Slope to some distant and rich
preferment. But now it seemed that one of his enemies, certainly the least potent of them,
but nevertheless one very important, was willing to desert his own camp. He walked up and down
his little study, almost thinking that the time had come when he would be able to appropriate
to his own use the big room upstairs, in which his predecessor had always sat.

As he resolved these things in his mind a note was brought to him from Archdeacon Grantly,
in which that divine begged his lordship to do him the honour of seeing him on the morrow--would
his lordship have the kindness to name the hour? Dr Grantly's proposed visit would have reference
to the re-appointment of Mr Harding to the wardenship of Hiram's hospital. The bishop having
read this note was informed that the archdeacon's servant was waiting for an answer.

Here at once a great opportunity offered itself to the bishop of acting on his own responsibility.
He bethought himself of his new ally, and rang the bell for Mr Slope. It turned out that Mr
Slope was not in the house; and then, greatly daring, the bishop with his own unassisted spirit
wrote a note to the archdeacon saying that he would see him, and naming the hour for doing
so. Having watched from his study-window that the messenger got safely off the premises with
this despatch, he began to turn over in his mind what step he should next take.

To-morrow he would have to declare to the archdeacon either that Mr Harding should have the
appointment, or that he should not have it. The bishop felt that he could not honestly throw
over Mr Quiverful without informing Mrs Proudie, and he resolved at last to brave the lioness
in her own den and tell her that circumstances were such that it behoved him to reappoint Mr
Harding. He did not feel that he should at all derogate from his new courage by promising Mrs
Proudie that the very first piece of available preferment at his disposal should be given to
Quiverful to atone for the injury done to him. If he could mollify the lioness with such a
sop, how happy would he think his first efforts had been?

Not without many misgivings did he find himself in Mrs Proudie's boudoir. He had at first thought
of sending for her. But it was not at all impossible that she might choose to take such a message
amiss, and then also it might be some protection to him to have his daughters present at the
interview. He found her sitting with her account books before her nibbling the end of her pencil
evidently mersed in pecuniary difficulties, and harassed in mind by the multiplicity of palatial
expenses, and the heavy cost of episcopal grandeur. Her daughters were around her. Olivia was
reading a novel, Augusta was crossing a note to her bosom friend in Baker Street, and Netta
was working diminutive coach wheels for the bottom of a petticoat. If the bishop could get
the better of his wife in her present mood, he would be a man indeed. He might then consider
victory his own for ever. After all, in such cases the matter between husband and wife stands
much the same as it does between two boys at the same school, two cocks in the same yard, or
two armies on the same continent. The conqueror once is generally the conqueror for ever after.
The prestige of victory is everything.

'Ahem--my dear,' began the bishop, 'if you are disengaged, I wished to speak to you.' Mrs Proudie
put her pencil down carefully at the point to which she had dotted her figures, marked down
in her memory the sum she had arrived at, and then looked up, sourly enough, into her helpmate's
face. 'If you are busy, another time will do as well,' continued the bishop, whose courage
like Bob Acres' had oozed out, now that he found himself on the ground of battle.

'What is it about, bishop?' asked the lady.

'Well--it was about those Quiverfuls--but I see you are engaged. Another time will do just
as well for me.'

'What about the Quiverfuls? It is quite understood I believe, that they are to come to the
hospital. There is to be no doubt about that, is there?' And as she spoke she kept her pencil
sternly and vigorously fixed on the column of figures before her.

