As election-day drew nearer, our prospects looked brighter. The Republican ticket, under the
editorial head of the "Burroak Banner," with my name and Mrs. Bassett's among the men's, was
such an evidence, that many women, notably opposed to the cause, said: "We didn't want the
right, but since we have it, we shall make use of it." This was exactly what Mrs. Whiston had
foretold. We estimated that--taking the County tickets all over the State--we had about one-twentieth
of the Republican, and one-fiftieth of the Democratic, nominations. This was far from being
our due, but still it was a good beginning.

My husband insisted that I should go very early to the polls. I could scarcely restrain a tear
of emotion as I gave my first ballot into the hands of the judges. There were not a dozen persons
present, and the act did not produce the sensation which I expected. One man cried out: "Three
cheers for our Assemblywoman!" and they gave them; and I thereupon returned home in the best
spirits. I devoted the rest of the day to relieving poorer women, who could not have spared
the time to vote, if I had not, meanwhile, looked after their children. The last was Nancy
Black, the shoemaker's wife in our street, who kept me waiting upon her till it was quite dark.
When she finally came, the skirt of her dress was ripped nearly off, her hair was down and
her comb broken; but she was triumphant, for Sam Black was with her, and SOBER. "The first
time since we were married, Mrs. Strongitharm!" she cried. Then she whispered to me, as I was
leaving: "And I've killed HIS vote, anyhow!"

When the count was made, our party was far ahead. Up to this time, I think, the men of both
parties had believed that only a few women, here and there, would avail themselves of their
new right--but they were roundly mistaken. Although only ten per cent. of the female voters
went to the polls, yet three-fourths of them voted the Republican ticket, which increased the
majority of that party, in the State, about eleven thousand.

It was amazing what an effect followed this result. The whole country would have rung with
it, had we not been in the midst of war. Mr. Wrangle declared that he had always been an earnest
advocate of the women's cause. Governor Battle, in his next message, congratulated the State
on the signal success of the experiment, and the Democratic masses, smarting under their defeat,
cursed their leaders for not having been sharp enough to conciliate the new element. The leaders
themselves said nothing, and in a few weeks the rank and file recovered their cheerfulness.
Even Mrs. Whiston, with all her experience, was a little puzzled by this change of mood. Alas!
she was far from guessing the correct explanation.

It was a great comfort to me that Mrs. Whiston was also elected to the Legislature. My husband
had just then established his manufactory of patent self-scouring knife-blades (now so celebrated),
and could not leave; so I was obliged to go up to Gaston all alone, when the session commenced.
There were but four of us Assemblywomen, and although the men treated us with great courtesy,
I was that nervous that I seemed to detect either commiseration or satire everywhere. Before
I had even taken my seat, I was addressed by fifteen or twenty different gentlemen, either
great capitalists, or great engineers, or distinguished lawyers, all interested in various
schemes for developing the resources of our State by new railroads, canals or ferries. I then
began to comprehend the grandeur of the Legislator's office. My voice could assist in making
possible these magnificent improvements, and I promised it to all. Mr.