She had accordingly read Drake's anatomy from one end to the other. She had peeped into Wharton
upon the brain, and borrowed Graaf (This must be a mistake in Mr. Shandy; for Graaf wrote upon
the pancreatick juice, and the parts of generation.) upon the bones and muscles; but could
make nothing of it.

She had reason'd likewise from her own powers--laid down theorems--drawn consequences, and
come to no conclusion.

To clear up all, she had twice asked Doctor Slop, 'if poor captain Shandy was ever likely to
recover of his wound--?'

--He is recovered, Doctor Slop would say--

What! quite?

Quite: madam--

But what do you mean by a recovery? Mrs. Wadman would say.

Doctor Slop was the worst man alive at definitions; and so Mrs. Wadman could get no knowledge:
in short, there was no way to extract it, but from my uncle Toby himself. I had seen many lands and studied many books, I knew
a little of everything there was to know, and give remedies, and even sold them at "Rout" of
course, for any breed of diseases ... and setbacks, because in his opinion, nothing was truly
incurable, knowing look to things your reason, as he knew, having studied many books and have
run many lands. This second baratijero campaign was a sweeper in place. Not a speck left Tablanca
Rogue.

'--Was it without remission?--

'--Was it more tolerable in bed?

'--Could he lie on both sides alike with it?

'--Was he able to mount a horse?

'--Was motion bad for it?' et caetera, were so tenderly spoke to, and so directed towards my
uncle Toby's heart, that every item of them sunk ten times deeper into it than the evils themselves--but
when Mrs. Wadman went round about by Namur to get at my uncle Toby's groin; and engaged him
to attack the point of the advanced counterscarp, and pele mele with the Dutch to take the
counterguard of St. Roch sword in hand--and then with tender notes playing upon his ear, led
him all bleeding by the hand out of the trench, wiping her eye, as he was carried to his tent--Heaven!
Earth!

My uncle Toby measured off thirty toises, with Mrs. Wadman's scissars, from the returning angle
before the gate of St. Nicolas; and with such a virgin modesty laid her finger upon the place,
that the goddess of Decency, if then in being--if not, 'twas her shade--shook her head, and
with a finger wavering across her eyes--forbid her to explain the mistake.

Unhappy Mrs. Wadman!

--For nothing can make this chapter go off with spirit but an apostrophe to thee--but my heart
tells me, that in such a crisis an apostrophe is but an insult in disguise, and ere I would
offer one to a woman in distress--let the chapter go to the devil; provided any damn'd critic
in keeping will be but at the trouble to take it with him.

Chapter 4.LXXXVI.

My uncle Toby's Map is carried down into the kitchen.

Chapter 4.LXXXVII.

--And here is the Maes--and this is the Sambre; said the corporal, pointing with his right
hand extended a little towards the map, and his left upon Mrs. Bridget's shoulder--but not
the shoulder next him--and this, said he, is the town of Namur--and this the citadel--and there
lay the French--and here lay his honour and myself--and in this cursed trench, Mrs. Bridget,
quoth the corporal, taking her by the hand, did he receive the wound which crush'd him so miserably
here.--In pronouncing which, he slightly press'd the back of her hand towards the part he felt
for--and let it fall.

We thought, Mr. Trim, it had been more in the middle,--said Mrs. Bridget--

That would have undone us for ever--said the corporal.

--And left my poor mistress undone too, said Bridget.

The corporal made no reply to the repartee, but by giving Mrs. Bridget a kiss.

Come--come--said Bridget--holding the palm of her left hand parallel to the plane of the horizon,
and sliding the fingers of the other over it, in a way which could not have been done, had
there been the least wart or protruberance--'Tis every syllable of it false, cried the corporal,
before she had half finished the sentence--

--I know it to be fact, said Bridget, from credible witnesses.

--Upon my honour, said the corporal, laying his hand upon his heart, and blushing, as he spoke,
with honest resentment--'tis a story, Mrs. Bridget, as false as hell--Not, said Bridget, interrupting
him, that either I or my mistress care a halfpenny about it, whether 'tis so or no--only that
when one is married, one would chuse to have such a thing by one at least--

It was somewhat unfortunate for Mrs. Bridget, that she had begun the attack with her manual
exercise; for the corporal instantly....

Chapter 4.LXXXVIII.

It was like the momentary contest in the moist eye-lids of an April morning, 'Whether Bridget
should laugh or cry.'

She snatch'd up a rolling-pin--'twas ten to one, she had laugh'd--

She laid it down--she cried; and had one single tear of 'em but tasted of bitterness, full
sorrowful would the corporal's heart have been that he had used the argument; but the corporal
understood the sex, a quart major to a terce at least, better than my uncle Toby, and accordingly
he assailed Mrs. Bridget after this manner.

I know, Mrs. Bridget, said the corporal, giving her a most respectful kiss, that thou art good
and modest by nature, and art withal so generous a girl in thyself, that, if I know thee rightly,
thou would'st not wound an insect, much less the honour of so gallant and worthy a soul as
my master, wast thou sure to be made a countess of--but thou hast been set on, and deluded,
dear Bridget, as is often a woman's case, 'to please others more than themselves--'

Bridget's eyes poured down at the sensations the corporal excited.

--Tell me--tell me, then, my dear Bridget, continued the corporal, taking hold of her hand,
which hung down dead by her side,--and giving a second kiss--whose suspicion has misled thee? This did not speak
my uncle, but at mozallón, and talk about something, the two of them up once a "Prao-Council."

- Jorrios! - He said climbing ahead of me, without a moment and turn
away, but air shaking his right hand.

My uncle Toby and the corporal had gone on separately with their operations the greatest part
of the campaign, and as effectually cut off from all communication of what either the one or
the other had been doing, as if they had been separated from each other by the Maes or the Sambre.

My uncle Toby, on his side, had presented himself every afternoon in his red and silver, and
blue and gold alternately, and sustained an infinity of attacks in them, without knowing them
to be attacks--and so had nothing to communicate--

The corporal, on his side, in taking Bridget, by it had gain'd considerable advantages--and
consequently had much to communicate--but what were the advantages--as well as what was the
manner by which he had seiz'd them, required so nice an historian, that the corporal durst
not venture upon it; and as sensible as he was of glory, would rather have been contented to
have gone bareheaded and without laurels for ever, than torture his master's modesty for a
single moment--

--Best of honest and gallant servants!--But I have apostrophiz'd thee, Trim! once before--and
could I apotheosize thee also (that is to say) with good company--I would do it without ceremony
in the very next page.

Chapter 4.XC.

