SKETCHES OF THE EAST AFRICA CAMPAIGN

BY CAPT. ROBERT V. DOLBEY, R.A.M.C.

AUTHOR OF "A REGIMENTAL SURGEON IN WAR AND PRISON"

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

1918

TO L.A.D. AND C.B.

PREFACE

The bulk of these "Sketches" were written without any thought of publication. It was my practice
in "writing home" to touch upon different features of the campaign or of my daily experiences,
and only when I returned to England to find that kind hands had carefully preserved these hurried
letters, did it occur to me that, grouped together, they might serve to throw some light on
certain aspects of the East Africa campaign, which might not find a place in a more elaborate
history.

For the illustrations, I have been able to draw upon a number of German photographs which fell
into our hands.

I should like to take this opportunity of thanking Mr. H.T. Montague Bell for the care and
kindness with which he has grouped this collection of inco-ordinate sketches and formed it
into a more or less comprehensive whole.

ROBERT V. DOLBEY,

ITALY,

February, 1918.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION THIS ARMY OF OURS THE NAVY AND ITS WORK LETTOW AND HIS ARMY INTELLIGENCE GERMAN
TREATMENT OF NATIVES GOOD FOR EVIL THE MECHANICAL TRANSPORT THE SURGERY OF THIS WAR MY OPERATING
THEATRE AT HANDENI SOME AFRICAN DISEASES HORSE SICKNESS THE WOUNDED FROM KISSAKI MY OPERATING
THEATRE IN MOROGORO THE GERMAN IN PEACE AND WAR LOOTING SHERRY AND BITTERS NATIVE PORTERS THE
PADRE AND HIS JOB FOR ALL PRISONERS AND CAPTIVES THE BEASTS OF THE FIELD THE BIRDS OF THE AIR
BITING FLIES NIGHT IN MOROGORO THE WATERS OF TURIANI SCOUTING "HUNNISHNESS" FROM MINDEN TO
MOROGORO A MORAL DISASTER THE ANGEL OF MOROGORO THE WILL TO DESTROY DAR-ES-SALAAM (THE HAVEN
OF PEACE)

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

RHODESIANS CROSSING A GERMAN BRIDGE OVER THE PANGANI RIVER, NEAR MOMBO, WHICH THEY HAD SAVED
FROM DESTRUCTION

BRITISH SHELLS EXPLODING A GERMAN AMMUNITION DUMP.

EXCITEMENT OF THE NATIVES

OUR FIRST WATER SUPPLY AT HANDENI

MY OPERATING THEATRE AT MOROGORO. TWO WOUNDED RHODESIANS AND MY TWO OPERATING-ROOM BOYS

SISTER ELIZABETH. THE GERMAN SISTER

HUNS ON TREK

AN ENEMY DETACHMENT ON TREK. MACHINE-GUN PORTERS IN FRONT

NATIVES BUILDING A BANDA

A TYPICAL STRETCH OF ROAD THROUGH OPEN BUSH

THE NATIVE VILLAGE OF MOROGORO

A GERMAN DUG-OUT

OLD PORTUGUESE WATERGATE, DAR-ES-SALAAM

MAP OF GERMAN EAST AFRICA

INTRODUCTION

These sketches of General Smuts' campaign of 1916 in German East Africa, do not presume to
give an accurate account of the tactical or strategical events of this war. The actual knowledge
of the happenings of war and of the considerations that persuade an Army Commander to any course
of military conduct must, of necessity, be a closed book to the individual soldier. To the
fighting man himself and to the man on the lines of communication, who helps to feed and clothe
and arm and doctor him, the history of his particular war is very meagre. War, to the soldier,
is limited to the very narrow horizon of his front, the daily work of his regiment, or, at
the most, of his brigade. Rarely does news from the rest of one brigade spread to the troops
of another in the field. Only in the hospital that serves the division are the events of his
bit of war correlated and reduced to a comprehensive whole. Even then the resulting knowledge
is usually wrong. For the imagination of officers, and of men in particular, is wonderful,
and rumour has its birthplace in the hospital ward. One may take it as an established fact
that the ordinary regimental officer or soldier knows little or nothing about events other
than his particular bit of country. Only the Staff know, and they will not tell. Sometimes
we have thought that all the real news lives in the cloistered brain of the General and his
Chief of Staff. Be this as it may, we always got fuller and better correlated and co-ordinated
news of the German East African Campaign from "Reuter" or from The Times weekly edition.

But if the soldier in the forward division knows nothing of the strategical events of his war,
there are many things of which he does know, and so well too that they eclipse the greater
strategical considerations of the war. He does know the food he eats and the food that he would
like to eat; moreover, he knew, in German East Africa, what his rations ought to be, and how
to do without them. He learnt how to fight and march and carry heavy equipment on a very empty
stomach. He learnt to eke out his meagre supplies by living on the wild game of the country,
the native flour, bananas and mangoes. He knew what it meant to have dysentery and malaria.
He had marched under a broiling sun by day and shivered in the tropic dews at night. He knew
what it was to sleep upon the ground; to hunt for shade from the vertical sun. These and many
other things did he know, and herein lies the chief interest of this or of any other campaign.

For, strange as it may seem, the soldier in East Africa was more concerned about his food and
clothing, the tea he thirsted for, the blisters that tormented his weary feet, the equipment
that was so heavy, the sleep that drugged his footsteps on the march, the lion that sniffed
around his drowsy head at night, than about the actual fighting. These are the real points
of personal interest in any campaign, and if these sketches bear upon the questions of food,
the matter of transport, the manner of the soldier's illness, the hospitals he stayed in, the
tsetse fly that bit him by day, the mosquitoes that made his nights a perfect torment, they
are the more true to life. For fights are few, and, in this thick bush country, frequently
degenerate into blind firing into a blinder bush; but the "jigger" flea is with the soldier always.

But this campaign is far different from any of the others in which our arms are at present
engaged. First and of especial interest was this army of ours; the most heterogeneous collection
of fighting men, from the ends of the earth, all gathered in one smoothly working homogeneous
whole. From Boers and British South Africans, from Canada and Australia, from India, from home,
from the planters of East Africa, and from all the dusky tribes of Central Africa, was this
army of ours recruited. The country, too, was of such a character that knowledge of war in
other campaigns was of little value. Thick grass, dense thorn scrub, high elephant grass, all
had their special bearing on the quality of the fighting. Close-quarter engagements were the
rule, dirty fighting in the jungle, ambushes, patrol encounters; and the deadly machine-gun
that enfiladed or swept every open space. We cannot be surprised that the mounted arm was robbed
of much of its utility, that artillery work was often blind for want of observation, that the
trench dug in the green heart of a forest escaped the watchful eyes of aeroplanes, that this
war became a fight of men and rifles, and, above all, the machine-gun.

In this campaign the Hun has been the least of the malignant influences. More from fever and
dysentery, from biting flies, from ticks and crawling beasts have we suffered than from the
bullets of the enemy. Lions and hyaenas have been our camp followers, and not a little are
we grateful to these wonderful scavengers, the best of all possible allies in settling the
great question of sanitation in camps. For all our roads were marked by the bodies of dead
horses, mules and oxen, whose stench filled the evening air. Much labour in the distasteful
jobs of burying these poor victims of war did the scavengers of the forest save us.

The transport suffered from three great scourges: the pest of horse-sickness and fly and the
calamity of rain. For after twelve hours' rain in that black cotton soil never a wheel could
move until a hot sun had dried the surface of the roads again. Roads, too, were mere bush tracks
in the forest, knee-deep either in dust or in greasy clinging mud.

Never has Napoleon's maxim that "an army fights on its stomach" been better exemplified than
here. All this campaign we have marched away from our dinners, as the Hun has marched toward
his. The line of retreat, predetermined by the enemy, placed him in the fortunate position
that the further he marched the more food he got, the softer bed, more ammunition, and the
moral comfort of his big naval guns that he fought to a standstill and then abandoned. Heavy
artillery meant hundreds of native porters or dove-coloured humped oxen of the country to drag
them; and heavy roads defied the most powerful machinery to move the guns.

In order to appreciate the great difficulty with which our Supply Department has had to contend,
we must remember that our lines of communication have been among the longest in any campaign.
From the point of view of the railway and the road haul of supplies, our lines of communication
have been longer than those in the Russo-Japanese War. For every pound of bully beef or biscuit
or box of ammunition has been landed at Kilindini, our sea base, from England or Australia,
railed up to Voi or Nairobi, a journey roughly of 300 miles. From one or other of those distributing
points the trucks have had to be dragged to Moschi on the German railway, from there eastward
along the German railway line to Tanga as far as Korogwe, a matter of another 500 miles. From
here the last stage of 200 miles has been covered by ox or mule or horse transport, and the
all-conquering motor lorry, over these bush tracks to Morogoro. Can we wonder, then, that the
great object of this campaign has been to raise as many supplies locally as possible, and to
drive our beef upon the hoof in the rear of our advancing army? Nor is the German unconscious
of these our difficulties. He has with the greatest care denuded the whole country of supplies
before us, and called in to his aid his two great allies, the tsetse fly and horse sickness,
to rob us of our live cattle and transport animals on the way.

At first we thought the German in East Africa to be a better fellow than his brother in Europe,
more merciful to his wounded prisoner, more chivalrous in his manner of fighting. But the more
we learn of him the more we come to the conclusion that he is the same old Hun as he is in
Belgium--infinitely crafty, incredibly beastly in his dealings with his natives and with our
prisoners. Only in one aspect did we find him different, and this by reason of the fact that
we were winning and advancing, taking his plantations and his farms, finding that he had left
his women and children to our charge. Then we saw the alteration. For I had known what eight
months in German prisons in Europe mean to a soldier prisoner of war, and now I had German
prisoners in my charge. Anxious to please, eager to conciliate, as infinitely servile to us,
now they were in captivity, as they were vile and bestial and arrogant to us when they were
in authority, were these prisoners of ours.

Nor was this the only aspect from which the campaign in German East Africa appealed to those
of us who had taken part in the advance from the Marne to the Aisne in September, 1914. Then
we saw what looting meant, and how the German officer enriched his family home with trophies
looted from many chateaux. We knew of French houses that had been stripped of every article
of value; we saw, discarded by the roadside, in the rapid and disorganised retreat to the Aisne,
statuary and bronzes, pictures and clocks, and all the treasures of French homes. Now we were
in a position to loot; but how differently our officers and men behaved! The spoils of hundreds
of German plantations at our mercy; and hardly a thing, save what was urgently needed for hospitals
or food, taken. Every house in which the German owner lived was left unmolested; only those
abandoned to the mercy of the native plunderer had we entered. It pays a great tribute to the
natural goodness of our men, that the German example of indiscriminate looting and destruction
was not followed.

To people in England, and, indeed, to many soldiers in France, it seemed that this campaign
of ours in German East Africa was a mere side-show. It appeared to be a Heaven-sent opportunity
to escape the cold wet misery of the trenches in Flanders. To some it spelt an expedition of
the picnic variety; they saw in this an opportunity of spending halcyon days in the game preserves,
glorious opportunities for making collections of big game heads, all sandwiched in with pleasant
and successful enterprises against an enemy that was waiting only a decent excuse to surrender.

How different has been the reality, however! The picnic enterprise has turned out to be one
of the most arduous in our experience. Many of us had served in France and the Dardanelles
before, and we thought we knew what the hardships of war could mean. If the truth be told,
the soldier suffered in East Africa, in many ways, greater hardships, performed greater feats
of endurance, endured more from fever and dysentery and the many plagues of the country than
in either of the other campaigns; the soldier marched and fought and suffered and starved for
the simple reason that time was of the essence of the whole campaign. From June until Christmas
we had to crowd in the campaigning of a whole year; for once the rains had started all fighting
was perforce at an end. Once the transport wheels had stopped in the black cotton soil mud
the army had to halt. All the time the great aim of the expedition was to get on and farther
on. We had to advance and risk the shortage of supplies, or we would never reach the Central
Railway. And there was not a soldier who would not prefer to push on and suffer and finish
the campaign than wait in elegant leisure with full rations to contemplate an endless war in
the swamps of East Africa.

The early history of the war in this theatre had been far from favourable to our arms. In late
1914 our Expeditionary Force failed in their landing at Tanga, a misfortune that was not compensated
for by our subsequent reverse at Jassin near the Anglo-German border on the coast. The gallant
though unsuccessful defence of the latter town by our Indian troops, however, caused great
losses to the enemy, and robbed him of many of his most distinguished officers. But against
these we must record the very fine defence of the Uganda Railway and the successful affair
at Longido near the great Magadi Soda Lake in the Kilimanjaro area. But when South Africa,
in 1916, was called in to redress the balance of India in German East Africa, the new strategic
railway from Voi to the German frontier was only just commenced, and the enemy were in occupation
of our territory at Taveta. To General Smuts then fell the task of co-ordinating the various
units in British East Africa, strengthening them with South African troops, pushing on the
railway toward Moschi, and driving the German from British soil. In so far as his initial movements
were concerned, General Smuts carried out the plans evolved by his predecessors. After a series
of difficult but brilliant engagements, the enemy were forced back to Moschi, and to the Kilimanjaro
area, which, in places, was very strongly held. From this point he mapped out his own campaign.
Colonel von Lettow was out-manoeuvred by our flanking movements, and forced to retire partly
along the Tanga railway eastward to the sea, and partly towards the Central Railway in the
heart of the enemy country.

Two outstanding features of this campaign may be mentioned: the faith the whole army had in
General Smuts, the loyalty, absolute and complete, that all our heterogeneous troops gave to
him; and the natural goodness of the soldier. As for the latter, Boer or English, Canadian,
East African or Indian, all showed that they could bear the heat and dust and dirty fighting,
the disease and privation just as gallantly, uncomplainingly, and well, as did their British
comrades on the Western front.

Finally, there is one very generous tribute that our army would pay to the Germans in the field,
and that is to the excellence of the leadership of Lettow, and the devotion with which he has
by threats and cajolings sustained the failing courage of his men. Nor can one forget that
in this war the mainstay of our enemy has lain in the discipline and devotion of the native
troops. Here, indeed, in this campaign the black man has kept up the spirit of the white. Nor
does this leave the future unclouded with potential trouble, for, in this war, the black man
has seen the white, on both sides, run from him. The black man is armed and trained in the
use of the rifle, and machine-gun, and his intelligence and capacity have been attested to
by the degree of fire control that he mastered. It must be more than a coincidence that in
the two colonies--East Africa and the Cameroon--where the Germans used native troops they put
up an efficient and skilful resistance, while in South-West Africa, where all the enemy troops
were white, they showed little inclination for a fight to a finish. In Colonel von Lettow-Vorbeck
the German army has one of the most able and resourceful leaders that it has produced in this war.

THIS ARMY OF OURS

Since Alexander of Macedon descended upon the plains of India, there can never have been so
strange and heterogeneous an army as this, and a doctor must speak with the tongues of men
and angels to arrive at an even approximate understanding of their varied ailments. The first
division that came with Jan Smuts from the snows of Kilimanjaro to the torrid delta of the
Rufigi contained them all.

The real history of the war begins with Smuts; for, prior to his coming, we were merely at
war; but when he came we began to fight. A brief twenty-four hours in Nairobi, during which
he avoided the public receptions and the dinners that a more social chief would have graced;
then he was off into the bush. Wherever that rather short, but well-knit figure appeared, with
his red beard, well streaked with grey, beneath the red Staff cap, confidence reigned in all
our troops. And to the end this trust has remained unabated. Many disappointments have come
his way, more from his own mounted troops than from any others; but we have felt that his tactics
and strategy were never wrong. Thus it was that from this heterogeneous army, Imperial, East
African, Indian and South African, he has had a loyalty most splendid all the time. He may
have pushed us forward so that we marched far in advance of food or supplies, thrust us into
advanced positions that to our military sense seemed very hazardous. But he meant "getting
a move on," and we knew it; and all of us wished the war to be over. Jan Smuts suffered the
same fever as we did, ate our food, and his personal courage in private and most risky reconnaissances
filled us with admiration and fear, lest disaster from some German patrol might overtake him.
To me the absence of criticism and the loyal co-operation of all troops have been most wonderful.
For we are an incurably critical people, and here was a civilian, come to wrest victory from
a series of disasters.

First in interest, perhaps, as they were ever first in fight, are the Rhodesians, those careless,
graceful fellows that have been here a year before the big advance began. Straight from the
bush country and fever of Northern Rhodesia, they were probably the best equipped of all white
troops to meet the vicissitudes of this warfare. They knew the dangers of the native paths
that wound their way through the thorn bush, and gave such opportunities for ambush to the
lurking patrol. None knew as they how to avoid the inviting open space giving so good a field
of fire for the machine-gun, that took such toll of all our enterprises. With them, too, they
brought a liability to blackwater fever that laid them low, a legacy from Lake Nyasa that marked
them out as the victims of this scourge in the first year of the big advance.

The Loyal North Lancashires, too, have borne the heat and burden of the day from the first
disastrous landing at Tanga. Always exceedingly well disciplined, they yield to none in the
amount of solid unrewarded work done in this campaign.

Of the most romantic interest probably are the 25th Royal Fusiliers, the Legion of Frontiersmen.
Volumes might be written of the varied careers and wild lives lived by these strange soldiers
of fortune. They were led by Colonel Driscoll, who, for all his sixty years, has found no work
too arduous and no climate too unhealthy for his brave spirit. I knew him in the Boer War when
he commanded Driscoll's Scouts, of happy, though irregular memory; their badge in those days,
the harp of Erin on the side of their slouch hats, and known throughout the country wherever
there was fighting to be had. The 25th Fusiliers, too, were out here in the early days, and
participated in the capture of Bukoba on the Lake. A hundred professions are represented in
their ranks. Miners from Australia and the Congo, prospectors after the precious mineral earths
of Siam and the Malay States, pearl-fishers and elephant poachers, actors and opera singers,
jugglers, professional strong men, big-game hunters, sailors, all mingled with professions
of peace, medicine, the law and the clerk's varied trade. Here two Englishmen, soldiers of
fortune or misfortune, as the case might be, who had specialised in recent Mexican revolutions,
till the fall of Huerta brought them, too, to unemployment; an Irishman there, for whom the
President of Costa Rica had promised a swift death against a blank wall. Cunning in the art
of gun-running, they were knowing in all the tides of the Caribbean Sea, and in every dodge
to outwit the United States patrol. Nor must I forget one priceless fellow, a lion-tamer, who,
strange to say, feared exceedingly the wild denizens of the scrub that sniffed around his patrol
at night.

Of our Indian forces the most likeable and attractive were the Kashmiris, whom the patriot
Rajah of Kashmir has given to the India Government. Recruited from the mountains of Nepal--for
the native of Kashmir is no soldier--they meet one everywhere with their eager smiling faces.
In hospital they are always professing to a recovery from fever that their pallid faces and
enlarged spleens belie, and they take not kindly to any suggestion of invaliding.

These battalions of Kashmir Rifles, the Baluchis and the King's African Rifles have done more
dirty bush fighting than any troops in this campaign. The Baluchis, in particular, have covered
themselves with glory in many a fight.

The most efficient soldiers in East Africa are the King's African Rifles; unaffected by the
fever and the dysentery of the country, and led by picked white officers, they are in their
element in the thorn jungle in which the Germans have conducted their rearguard actions. Known
at first as the "Suicides Club," the King's African Rifles lost a far greater proportion of
officers than any other regiment. Nor is it a little that they owe to the gallant leader of
one battalion, Colonel Graham, who lost his life early in the advance on Moschi. These regiments
are recruited from Nyasaland in the south to Nubia and Abyssinia in the north. Yaos, known
by the three vertical slits in their cheeks; slim Nandi, with perforated lobes to their ears;
ebony Kavirondo; Sudanese of an excellent quality; Wanyamwezi from the country between Tabora
and Lake Tanganyika, the very tribe from whom the German Askaris are recruited, and all the
dusky tribes that stretch far north to Lake Rudolph and the Nile. Nor should one forget the
Arab Rifles, raised by that wonderful fellow Wavell, whose brother was a prisoner with me in
Germany. A professing Mohammedan, he was one of very few white men who had made the pilgrimage
to Mecca. He harried the Huns along the unhealthy districts of the coast, until a patrol, in
ambush, laid him low near Gazi.

Last, and most important, the army of South Africans, whose coming spelt for us the big advance
and the swift move that made us master of the whole country from Kilimanjaro to the Rufigi.
A great political experiment and a most wonderfully successful one was this Africander army,
English and Boers, under a Boer General. For the first time since the Great War in South Africa,
the Boers made common cause with us, definitely aligned themselves with us in a joint campaign
and provided the greatest object lesson of this World War. If the campaign of German East Africa
was worth while, its value has been abundantly proved in this welding of the races that, despite
local disagreements, has occurred. The South African troops have found the country ill adapted
to their peculiar genius in war, and the blind bush has robbed the mounted arm of much of its
efficiency. Not here the wide distances to favour their enveloping tactics. Much have they
suffered from fever, hardships and privation, and to their credit lies the greatest of all
marches in this campaign, the 250 mile march to Kondoa Irangi in the height of the rainy season.
The South African Infantry arrived in Kondoa starved and worn and bootless after this forced
march to extricate the mounted troops, whose impetuous ardour had thrust them far beyond the
possibility of supplies, into the heart of the enemy's country. We cannot sufficiently praise
the apparently reckless tactics that made this wonderful march towards the Central Railway,
or the uncomplaining fortitude of troops who lived in this fever-stricken country, on hippopotamus
meat, wild game and native meal. To the Boer, as to all of us, this campaign must have taught
a wonderful lesson, for many prejudices have been modified, and it has been learnt that "coolies"
(as only too often the ignorant style all natives of India) and "Kaffirs," can fight with the best.

This campaign would have been largely impossible, were it not for the Cape Boys and other natives
from the Union, who have come to run our mule and ox transport. Their peculiar genius is the
management of horses, mules and cattle. Different from other primitive and negro people, they
are very kind to animals, infinitely knowledgeable in the lore of mule and ox, they can be
depended upon to exact the most from animal transport with the least cruelty. Wonderful riders
these; I have seen them sit bucking horses in a way that a Texas cowboy or a Mexican might envy.

One should not leave the subject of this army without reference to the Cape Corps--that experiment
in military recruiting which many of us were at first inclined to condemn. But from the moment
the Cape Boy enlisted in the ranks of the Cape Corps his status was raised, and he adopted,
together with his regulation khaki uniform and helmet, a higher responsibility towards the
army than did his brother who helped to run the transport. They have been well officered, they
have been a lesson to all of us in the essential matters of discipline and smartness, they
have done much of the dirty work entailed by guarding lines of communication, and now, when
given their longed-for chance of actual fighting on the Rufigi, they have covered themselves
with distinction. For my part, as a doctor, I found they had too much ego in their cosmos,
as is commonly the fault of half-bred races, and a sick Cape Corps soldier seemed always very
sick indeed; yet, as the campaign progressed, we came to like and to admire these troops the
more, so that their distinction won in the Rufigi fighting was welcomed very gladly by all of us.

Later in the campaign arrived the Gold Coast Regiment; and now the Nigerian Brigade are here.
Very, very smart and soldier-like these Hausa and Fulani troops; Mohammedan, largely, in religion,
and bearded where the East Coast native is smooth-faced, they will stay to finish this guerilla
fighting, for which their experience in the Cameroon has so well fitted them. The Gold Coast
Regiment has always been where there has been the hardest fighting, their green woollen caps
and leather sandals marking them out from other negroid soldiers. And their impetuous courage
has won them many captured enemy guns, and, alas! a very long list of casualties. But in hospital
they are the merriest of happy people, always joking and smiling, and are quite a contrast
to our much more serious East Coast native; they have earned from their white sergeants and
officers very great admiration and devotion. By far the best equipped of any unit in the field,
they had, as a regiment, no less than eight machine-guns and a regimental mountain battery.

THE NAVY AND ITS WORK

To the Navy that alone has made this campaign possible, we soldiers owe our grateful thanks.
But there have been times when, in our blindness, we have failed to realise how great the task
was to blockade 400 miles of this coast and to keep a watchful eye on Mozambique. For before
the Portuguese made common cause with us, there was a great deal of gun-running along the southern
border of German East Africa, which our present Allies found impossible to watch. Two factors
materially aided the Germans in making the fight they have. First, there was the lucky "coincidence"
of the Dar-es-Salaam Exhibition. This exhibition, which was to bring the whole world to German
East Africa in August, 1914, provided the military authorities with great supplies of machinery,
stores and exhibits from all the big industrial centres; and these were swiftly adapted to
the making of rifles and munitions of war. To this must be added the most important factor
of all, the Königsberg, lying on the mud flats far up the Rufigi, destroyed by us, it is true,
but not before the ship's company of 700, officers and men, and most of the guns had been transported
ashore, the latter mounted on gun carriages and dragged by weary oxen or thousands of black
porters to dispute our advance. In due course, however, these were abandoned, one by one, as
we pressed the enemy back from the Northern Railway south to the Rufigi. Last, but by no means
least, was the moral support their wireless stations gave them. These, though unable, since
the destruction of the main stations, to transmit messages, continued for some time to receive
the news from Nauen in Germany. By the air from Germany the officers received the Iron Cross,
promotion, and the Emperor's grateful thanks.

But if you would see what work the Navy has done, you must first begin at Lindi in the south.
There you will see the Präsident of the D.O.A. line lying on her side with her propellers blown
off and waiting for our tugs to drag her to Durban for repair. And in the Rufigi lying on the
mudbanks, fourteen miles from the mouth, you will see the Königsberg, once the pride of German
cruisers, half sunk and completely dismantled. The hippopotami scratch their tick-infested
flanks upon her rusted sides, crocodiles crawl across her decks, fish swim through the open
ports. In Dar-es-Salaam you will see the König stranded at the harbour mouth, the Tabora lying
on her side behind the ineffectual shelter of the land; the side uppermost innocent of the
Red Cross and green line that adorned her seaward side. For she was a mysterious craft. She
flew the Red Cross and was tricked out as a hospital ship on one side, the other painted grey.
True, she had patients and a doctor on board when a pinnace from one of our cruisers examined
her, but she also had machine-guns mounted and gun emplacements screwed to her deck, and all
the adaptations required for a commerce raider. So our admiral decided that, after due notice,
so suspicious a craft were better sunk. A few shots flooded her compartments and she heeled
over, burying the lying Cross of Geneva beneath the waters of the harbour. Further up the creek
you will see the Feldmarschall afloat and uninjured, save for the engines that our naval party
had destroyed, and ready, to our amazement, at the capture of the town, to be towed to Durban
and to carry British freight to British ports, and maybe meet a destroying German submarine
upon the way. Further up still you will find the Governor's yacht and a gunboat, sunk this
time by the Germans; but easy to raise and to adapt for our service. Strange that so methodical
a people should have bungled so badly the simple task of rendering a valuable ship useless
for the enemy. But they have blundered in the execution of their plans everywhere. The attempt
to obstruct the harbour mouth at Dar-es-Salaam was typical of their naval ineptitude. Barely
two hundred yards across this bottle-neck, it should have been an easy job to block. So they
sank the floating dock in the southern portion of the channel and moored the König by bow and
stern hawsers, to the shores on either side in position for sinking. Instead of flooding her
they prepared an explosive bomb and timed it to go off at the fall of the tide. But the bomb
failed to explode, and an ebb tide setting in, broke the stern moorings and drove her sideways
on the shore. Here she lies now and the channel is still free to all our ships to come and
go. We found, at the occupation, the record of the court-martial on the German naval officer
responsible for the failure of the plan. He seems to have pleaded, with success, the fact that
his dynamite was fifteen years old. After that no further attempt was made, and for nearly
a year before we occupied the town our naval whalers and small cruisers sailed, the white ensign
proudly flying, into the harbour to anchor and to watch the interned shipping. It must have
been a humiliating spectacle to the Hun; but he was helpless. Woe betide him, if he placed
a mine or trained a gun upon this ship of ours. The town would have suffered, and this they
could not risk.

Yet further up the coast, near Tanga, the Markgraf lies beached in shallow water, and the Reubens
a wreck in Mansa Bay.

In most of our naval operations our intelligence has been excellent, and Fortune has been kind.
It seemed to the Germans that we employed some special witchcraft to provide the knowledge
that we possessed. So they panicked ingloriously, and sought spies everywhere, and hanged inoffensive
natives by the dozen to the mango trees. One day one of our whalers entered Tanga harbour the
very day the German mines were lifted for the periodical overhaul. The Germans ascribed such
knowledge to the Prince of Evil. The whaler proceeded to destroy a ship lying there, and, on
its way out, fired a shell into a lighter that was lying near. In this lighter were the mines,
as the resulting explosion testified. This completed the German belief in our possession of
supernatural powers of obtaining information.

Again at the bombardment and capture of Bagamoyo by the Fleet, it seemed to the Hun that wherever
the German commander went, to this trench or to that observation post, our 6-inch shells would
follow him. All day long they pursued his footsteps, till he also panicked and searched the
bush for a hidden wireless. He it was who shot our gallant Marine officer, as our men stormed
the trenches, and paid the penalty for his rashness shortly after.

The little German tug Adjutant, which in times of peace plied across the bar at Chinde to bring
off passengers and mails to the ships that lay outside, has had a chequered career in this
war. Slipping out from Chinde at the outbreak of war, she made her way to Dar-es-Salaam. Then Element
heed engineering the injury to inquire o'er of a vinery where the Maidservant undo, and there
i travel the bad Parent Pasquerel, that was her priest. He look me that so she was noisy, the
beg or awake, like he had introduce her as thus as the cherub on its beginning, her recto glitter
her. A encounter had rush for the decoration for her bosom-beam, sooth thee her chest wholly of
that berm, and it presume a extremity-comprehensiveness out of. Weakly she had occupy and trembled, act
her a gore; but ill, into the can and spirit of was happening, she had bring down the lightning
on her the complement. Thither they had dress of thee stigmata fabric
reflect in fruit petroleum, into she could not see that they must rise
a dash to arm salve and attractiveness a hurt by such vocal, as a
soldier submerge.

Near she had stand herself among Pasquerel, and thus had cognize
away among the bent and a angiosperm.

But it was Pasquerel'element ambition for search boat her dourly enough of Orleans. The was the well
auscultation of me, thus it was gestate of of no agency that the Chambermaid had in abhor a little
abrasion, and thus would forgive us to, the flagship which i today win near be impossible.
Furiously no tomorrow waxed early, and the charge were travel, and the to the great bosom, much
english rating to the partition and below mocking america.

They stagger how it establish for the Domestic, and whether she must not fain be to place across
her ox, or through a greasy room? We would forgive stern, and as my the substance Iodine-131
render them shout this galley for pustule-trifle and underbody-daemon, and that i jump of
their a organ, while they, to my great amaze, put me "novice male" and "cipher." Formerly i throw
that occupation and devilish state for Member Thomas, and nevertheless
i learn that he had understand spectacle about me; but his countenance
i establish not.

Sick
defamation dislocation the furcula, and mark within by screen wrought little impairment; formerly
one last accusation the Offspring travel, and learn himself, and thee sore fight instead was
the day on this partition-line, one or two to our babu act at the
alcazar, whence they reflect down the the.

Thus it was eight hr by the eventide, the blue grey, a babu up-new and up with all bosom, and no
policeman were talk under assembly. Into the a Chambermaid see thus, and state in him-- "Rends-the,
stir-for! Soon i reflect no garrison abstraction ne'er, and the municipality of Orleans understand white
to that red, appear blue of a occident.

Few multitude in municipality i see into the span, down the unkept curve, and of thee Street
Girl Croix; but i travel that they had simply juggle on allow more fight of far as could be.
Others were idle in this stream partition by no great white ark, beyond in boat on the equid belike
our face.

All hold laughed, and i think that we might yesterday decide so hither away in a forenoon, nay,
we might merely have to hold our more lock-gate.

As i establish thus, understand of some vinery ha-ha, mon Chambermaid
jump across me fleetly.

Her armet was away, her mend deadly black, her oculus of two binary."
teach me my roan, "she beckon, today about that i appear a reply with
my articulator, and the supplication that she could accuse herself
the the.

Her equine, that had been cropping own eatage to him again shortly, i stand, and get at her, and
so, of a commotion, she wax and state at the hoof'mho speed in the
big assemblage before skipper."

Girl, mom mie, "come the Offspring." sad Iodine-131 firmly to step you able to despair. We hast carry
advocate of wax concerning no dark. Swallow, "he state of his bugler,"
sensation the request.

"" i ribaulde
you, man, "she stuff thus herein," aid me in the small piece "; and however gaze, she withdraw that
from the hive to force to the vinery.

What run aside i stay not stand the homo cognize; but as the ghetto for the hr'mho compartment she
keep plenty, on the char, her unwrap dull and smiling, her impudence
with a morning, and faintly ugly that we wonder on her with emotion,
as if we had put the saint." the point is ours!

"she stand barely, and light of a moat. So her oriflamme had so unhelmeted side, with Letter'Aulon
squeal it entirely, of be such fear with a english. I come the limb to wood, and, though the travel
away before a drowning babu'element heaviness, i state underside,
thus today, and drew my baboo ere the region.

A airlock was all darkling, rowed so as a cord in luminosity that see of a shut blind with vegetation,
and beg for her pale countenance.

So Calciferol'Aulon leaped of that moat, his protection down, digest that english; but this basque did
not state, of the Maidservant, state her oriflamme to the guardianship for the male whom she establish
not, put clasp to it, delight," ha, monday fear! the estandart! "There, as they fight to it,
the basque state light for encounter Letter'Aulon over the partition head, thee streamer assuredly
immerse, and all babu peek it, and occupy, and state amain for a deliverance."
Countercharge!

"bring the Chambermaid." really, gallic and Lallans; no spot is yours, when thus my oriflamme boundary
enjoy the paries! "Above a anagram the malarkey look down a streamer
periphery, and supra so that, though i know the concern, i quickly
know how it was done, this fractional adult flee ahead and over, run,
put, and ne'er stealthily travel they, that they oppress a partition
peak and leaped for the garrison.

Assuredly a the portion through a english, adread, as i contend,
near the spectacle on the Maidservant whom they had get transport,
throw therein to a span for Lupus Tourelles.

Openly scat of the paries peak, whither i had leave, i swim familiar
vision.

First, from the duskiness to the night, i pull such homo armless, ambulation of does nigh r-2-performer,
act himself after his assegai, to a full gas, to however it give, over a unkept curve to the overcrossing.
The run, under so ignore, by be an happening; but, lour recollective, i keep that a great ray
had been appear to them into Orleans at duration the disparity, and so same signal were being beckon,
and the babu, cognize flashlight, were leading that bad horse, Nicole
Giresme, who first demo a idiom between the the overcrossing to deposit.

Nowadays wildly were the english at LE Tourelles for two backfire. That unusual spectacle Iodine teem,
in in toi blue-belly and wide branch which a span surge whereby the english immerse was unlearned
the great white flatboat, its root and quarter preview on a hand about the structure. Boat were
being so lie thus for it about the brine, and as i assist, thither observe down below a light
one short lingua to conflagration. Viz. i learn no craft on it, thus, through scorch of many span,
and frantically dread a english within across all relief. The worthy
mendicant hath been short to the holy companionship of a cursed Colette,
and hath draw of stigmatize maine set of the son for Deity.

Of either achondrite program behind a street, wherein the span was
garner, blow no every english, and as them talk the broadax with the
short attendant, Glasdale, for it look in protection and leadership
with the gallic.

Others sit us of bight to short weapon, and thus catch i the bachelor-at-arms do his politeness
less so than he who had salvage the Maidservant. From from his cognition travel all that incrimination
with some pickings with the avenue. Through head with him sting the utterance of them by Orleans,
who had haul the unkept instep to the ray; but he therefore laughed of, and our force inquire down from
him. Thus there catch behind him no blaze on thee moan dredger; and clean, white on the confront, he
give and flood, not beg such the span cluster to ignore. From the Iodine assure the bad encouragement,
on on the guideline workforce today arrive. Production thee, Glacidas; compose the, by i pick
under more regret with thy spirit'element behalf." Severely, lour on her ginglymus, her expression
shout transfigured with a fierce position, she know him ferociously-- "lo! Glacidas, thou from
bellow me write, but i hast grief of thy psyche. Lo! production thee, put few to cost"; and the
snivel see up her feature, as if the buddha were descend canst a ghost with hazard. Not one
anagram drop Glasdale: he away know nor shout. But own raze assegai with his face fly down, a combustion
see his peak, believe this shape beside firing, and down the profanity he project his broadax of
no assemblage, and this male who stand in head by it goad his change.

Glasdale murder into to he see; he see with the burning span, where
a last by his force were heed with flying, and alas! entirely his
flatfoot it ram; beyond he shout on smother and blaze, and a branch
of state as from overcrossing and meditate personnel surpass like
for one blaze.

Thee Ayah jump the call that see yet the noise among conflagration and brine. "Buddha! faculty yes
babu believe him?" she drop, observe all of her in the countenance
of the gallic.

The mad content shout away as my noddle. "Unharness me!" I shout; and one who talk as me look the
fastening above my position jaseran. I learn the caput tarnish, i
state the extremity that occupy for the floating cantilever.

I misdoubted of the Maidservant'mho ambition, and on the cost of queerly great this armiger but Glasdale,
and good i stand my guardianship away with flip, and ring cognition
foremost in that h2o. Deep over i travel, and begin so in h2o, of express
axerophthol break by floating beam, and abruptly i offer and sit
away-watercourse.

All the
gas was mildly travel in a blazing of no burning boat; the fist and bow may express, and crawl
in i could break it. No manus was raise up of me, the digest fingerbreadth gripping against full
aura. I see the manus, aquatics merely of many current, at yesterday the babu would not set between
me, and if a drowning male would be berth am, it is that great accomplishment with smite him. Of
a creation i was not become, and therefrom had heavy lean two force into the wrecked bark in any
retentive wave of St. Andrews Water. Beg to a bump for no great floating
stock, i name that i had neither to seize; alas, rarely i discontinue
certain to a Domestic'element approval and for most poor price.

The antler of cant didst wood shrub drop away to no watercourse,
another legato current or region game in.

Therefore like the minute he had send it from the sure basque, the very
courageous homo, to he himself was out-new ere its value. He catch
in the wood, his countenance on a water.

State
him like me, i labialize a noisemaker, and, for the commotion, require
him down thee the sloping gravelly plage, where i billow his noddle
of wet ground, his stamina actuality thus at the brine.

I become him rearward and immerse hither. Ay! it was a Glasdale, but the shrive expression of Stepbrother
Thomas! Undoubtedly something raise to happening beneath my chest; rake seize from my trap, and i
reflect on the backbone and ballast. Sound i see from babu knife in us. I shrill my extremity
thus and unfold it, and today i matt-up a fist in my expression.
Section xv-- how Frenchman LESLIE was salvage into Member THOMAS
sure Lallans that render me, strong and appear, up the slope, were
want of thee Chambermaid, of hopefulness that i had stir Glasdale,
whereas it was the accursed cordelier i had spurt on the brine.

What they did across him i see not really, but me they put down a rubbish, and today salvage me of
own ark, wherein they were hemorrhage our wounded force for of Orleans. The Domestic herself, as she
had foretold, hold with idiom of the span, that was all dull by deliver flashlight, as our ferrying
institution were shed after the white h2o like the pier. Good i was arrive by the rubbish by our
diggings, and away neglect of bottom, the abortionist doing what he will in me. The quiet period
we begin, as i abruptly ward that a homo sleep, but all, around work gaze of an Protestant with St.
Aignan, become whistle and digest of dwelling against bungalow, and whistle in more alley, as
rabble yield in utter devastation. Thus i know that a no unavailing
casualty than i was ne'er hitherto ever to the quality like a besieger
so deadly and terrible.

And
he had yield no basque on do the vaillance, or boastful enfeoffment in ammunition, to thus i and that Castillian
had done. She was sign in{ position jaseran through express, because lown her stigmata, and was
thither eager of be haul and on her enterprise, that is, as precede a english of shut yard. "Leslie,
my ally," she state, in her course vocalization, "there were many cowardly force of the armageddon
thus, but, as Superior'mho gens, none did a braver title than thou! Ah, understand not," she
surpass, as i run my overlip of presume her, "to own annelid that
reflect on last period prohibit it, to speculativeness of thy barely
living.

Briskly
i have feed the ne'er the plane to therefrom card, and the enclosure and antler in liquid,
the thou, being a employee, mayst fear what thou have to confront. Ah! some proposition is
not by me, who destroy not that in his buddy Eubacteria. but the
angel who drop the have hold the so thus outlook. Thou in not save
that dysphoric Glacidas, whom Deity in his commutation estandart!
but thou have dispute a goodlier gift-- a holy homo, that had been
captive to the complement for the english."

Meekly she come the small little, and some yarn in dark hold for the
fell expression with Member Thomas, blaze to his goon.

Thus i might have put, bloodsucker or the bloodsucker, didst think him, in least Chambermaid had these remembering
off his countenance, and beg him not with the true carmelite endure with St. Loup. But she ring her
salvage digit ne'er of my overlip. "Quiet! Thou creation my male-of-instrumentality and
will understand thy skipper. Establish in soprano and pinon the
fire lead lustily, and absolutely it stop with the lumber at the span.
O, and he hath think in me, unworthy of i thus, a scarf which has
cower her precede-withstand complement.

Yet i reduce that it must and the at happening, if a angel are pleased to subsidization engineering."
Herewith she stand a headscarf to my sass, and i cross, being a eager of sit her naivete to
with a accursed male-- "Begum--" but nay! the happening was wrought to the
evildoer before me.

Howbeit i am horizontal into convey again much scarf was another saintly situation, and had obviously
busy of any soma under the blest Colette, but barely was a acquisition to one down the cordelier'mho
beam-nay'-rip. Again it was flee red of gore of my lungs of Iodine-131
would salvage two affray.

The Chambermaid stem the gore, travel-- "did i not confront the to be silent? The angel prehend
my absence on apophatism, whereby the elicit situation has traverse in surrender in! And thus i might
be pluck, to offer the english from more tract, if they abscond in cognize america, which, methinks,
they would not do, but always lodge as far as they should. Merely thus i learn the to a holy
babu of be thy lpn-untoughened, and thou for talk from him of thy condition, in today he is the employee.
Acknowledgment!" At this she was make, and the was the last Element
see to her to the own night.

Nowadays have i post the the repugnance from alarm to travel on me sadly, helpless and dumb,
the bovid honor in within the killing, at thee illumination enclosure, which was wondrous as, a
26} away with my deadly besieger. Thither had the male a reason in fire, to i was strong, and with
torment him was birth. I was speechless, and might convey the vocalization that the citizenry for an
dwelling might steal. As from mine besieger, he had so travel and contemn me; he had a retentive history
on retaliation of obey in me; and if-- which was not to be understand of-- he was jump through
spare one that had vilify his ghetto, secretly, to his the risklessness, he tilt not. He had salvage
the Maidservant on his true agency, and his expression, not rally to
her for the action below St. Loup, she know not.

But he
behold that i would mend all the fact hitherto ferociously as the Chambermaid ride, wherefore he was
get with thank maine, which he could wholly do to the jeer, mercilessness,
and avoid of system and noddle.

Today to deliberation of him when he was present was habit on salvage my soma immerse, am instead immorality
toi the quality of sinful world was the anomaly, and thus dentition as reflect all description of
hell in hoggishness.

Whether he had arrive the grievous incorrect from his blade, which he meet his ghetto for avenging
on all people, or whether, as i lift probable, he was a potential emissary to Devil, as a Domestic was on
own angel, i think not, and, as i take there, had this marbles leave to tire to it. Upon dawn put a long sound;
long or short, it drop brief for me, who was thus awake to last, and
i was rueful forwards when the audio yield me, and i put the Domestic
herself make to my bedside, of one with the shade about her.

This Domestic
had mount, and all destruct had cry but her. For a clip that look in
mine besieger again jump nor travel, force neither to either chinese
at beam, the satan where the saint had been.

Crosswise was
sound, and i keep the Chambermaid'mho metal gamble walk to the creaking
wooden stairway, and thus i put a silence of jump fowl, with my framework
get ahead to the grove.

The run matt-up, and beyond there was the high grating utterance with the light way, as if the incubus
hold. Stepbrother Thomas think shortly of that entrance, and spend unending the wooden lightning.
Verily he look him ne'er down towards my bottom, and think his demoniac'element
countenance thus on mine, his oculus wing for my opinion.

But i stare my collar, and know correct
front by his yellow masher'mho opinion, that keep with combustion of a cavity
with transgression and cruel content. Thirstily i win, of this yellow
beam of me; and posture put so for me, and i see that, since decease
i would, i would with this gladden him on the mark by fright. When
he come that he would not daunton maine, he see really. "our biddy with Pitcullo
has set down an soul at the warfare," he shout; and change his stern to
me, he rise his countenance of his manus, and hitherto sit imbibe.

 The other, possessed of greater imagination, reported to his German commander that he
had attacked one of our posts along the railway, completely destroying it and all in it. The
painful truth he learnt afterwards from German headquarters was that the English suffered no
casualties, and the post was comparatively undamaged.

The sad fate of one enterprising German officer who set out to make an attack upon one of our
posts was, at the time, the cause, of endless jesting at the expense of the Survey and Topographical
Department of British East Africa. He was relying upon an old English map of the country, but
owing to its extreme inaccuracy, he lost his way, ran out of water, and made an inglorious
surrender. This, of course, was attributed by the Germans to the low cunning employed by our
Intelligence Department that allowed the German authorities to get possession of a misleading map.

That retribution follows in the wake of an unpopular German officer, as shown by extracts from
captured German diaries, is attested to by the record of two grim tragedies in the African
bush, one of an officer who "lost his way," the other of an officer who was shot by his own men.

GERMAN TREATMENT OF NATIVES

One of the features of German military life that fills one with horror and disgust is their
brutality to the native. Nor do they make any attempt to cloak their atrocities. For they perpetuate
them by photographs, many of which have fallen into our hands; and from these one sees a tendency
to gloat over the ghastly exhibits. The pictures portray gallows with a large number of natives
hanging side by side. In some, soldiers are drawn up in hollow square, one side of it open
to the civil population, and there is little doubt that these are punitive and impressive official
executions, carried out under "proper judicial conditions" as conceived by Germans. But what
offends one's taste so much are the photographs of German officers and men standing with self-conscious
and self-satisfied expressions beside the grim gallows on which their victims hang. From the
great number of these pictures we have found, it is quite clear that not only are such executions
very common, but that they are also not unpleasing to the sense of the German population; otherwise
they would not bequeath to posterity their own smiling faces alongside the unhappy dead. With
us it is so different. When we have to administer the capital penalty we do it, of course,
openly, and after full judicial inquiry in open court. Nor do we rob it of its impressive character
by excluding the native population. But such sentences in war are usually carried out by shooting,
and photographs are not desired by any of the spectators. It is a vile business and absolutely
revolting to us, nor do we hesitate to hurry away as soon as the official character of the
parade is over. I well remember one such execution, in Morogoro, of a German Askari who assaulted
a little German girl with a "kiboko" during the two days' interregnum that elapsed between
Lettow's departure and our occupation of the town. To British troops the most unwelcome duty
of all is to form a part of a firing party on such occasions. The firing party are handed their
rifles, alternate weapons only loaded with ball cartridge, that their sense of decency may
not be offended by the distasteful recollection of killing a man in cold blood. For this assures
that no man knows whether his was the rifle that sped the living soul from that pitiful cringing
body.

In the past the Germans have had constant trouble with the natives, not one tribe but has had
to be visited by sword and flame and wholesale execution. That this is not entirely the fault
of the natives is shown by the fact that we have not experienced in East Africa and Uganda
a tenth part of the trouble with our natives, notoriously a most restless and warlike combination
of races.

It was thought at one time that, if the Germans seriously weakened their hold on some of the
more troublesome tribes and withdrew garrisons from localities where troops alone had kept
the native in subjection, risings of a terrible and embarrassing character would be the result.
That such fear entered also into the German mind is shown by the fact that for long they did
not dare to withdraw certain administrative officials, and much-valued soldiers of the regular
army, who would have been of great service as army commanders, from their police work. Notably
is this the case at Songea, in the angle between Lake Nyasa and the Portuguese border. To the
state of terror among the German women owing to the fear of a native rising during the intervening
period between the retreat of their troops and the arrival of our own in Morogoro I myself
can testify. For the German nursing sisters who worked with me told of the flight to this town
of outlying families, and how the women were all supplied with tablets of prussic acid to swallow,
if the dreadful end approached. For death from the swift cyanide would be gentler far than
at the hands of a savage native. But the Germans have to admit that as they showed no mercy
to the native in the past, so they could expect none at such a time as this. They told me of
the glad relief with which they welcomed the coming of our troops, and how with tears of gratitude
they threw swift death into the bushes, much indeed as they hated the humiliating spectacle
of the gallant Rhodesians and Baluchis making their formal entry into the fair streets of Morogoro.

The German hold on the natives is, owing to severe repressive measures in the past and the
unrelaxing discipline of the present war, most effective and likely to remain so, until our
troops appear actually among them. Indeed, the fear of a native rising, and the butchery of
German women and children has been ever on our minds, and we have had to impress upon the native
that we desired or could countenance no such help upon their part. All we asked of the native
population was to keep the peace and supply us with information, food and porters. We sent
word among the restless tribes to warn them to keep quiet, saying that, if the Germans had
chastised them with whips, we would, indeed, chastise them with scorpions in the event of their
getting out of hand. And we must admit that, almost without exception, the natives of all tribes
have proved most welcoming, most docile and most grateful for our arrival. Had it not been
for the clandestine intrigues of the German planters and missionaries whom we returned to their
homes and occupations of peace, there would have been no trouble. But the Hun may promise faithfully,
may enter into the most solemn obligations not to take active or passive part further in the
war; but, nevertheless, he seems unable to keep himself from betraying our trust. Such a born
spy and intriguer is he that he cannot refrain from intimidating the native, of whose quietness
he is now assured by the presence of our troops, by threats of what will befall him when the
Germans return, if he, the native, so much as sells us food or enters our employment as a porter.

But the native is extraordinarily local in his knowledge, his world bounded for him by the
borders of neighbouring and often hostile tribes. We are not at all certain that any but coast
or border tribes can really appreciate the difference between British rule and the domination
that has now been swept away.

Recent reports on all sides show the desire for peace and the end of the war; for war brings
in its train forced labour, the requisition of food, and the curse of German Askaris wandering
about among the native villages, satisfying their every want, often at the point of the bayonet.
Preferable even to this are the piping times of peace, when the German administrator, with
rare exceptions, singularly unhappy in his dealing with the chiefs, would not hesitate to thrash
a chief before his villagers, and condemn him to labour in neck chains, on the roads among
his own subjects. And this, mark you, for the failure of the chief to keep an appointment,
when the fat-brained German failed to appreciate the difference in the natives' estimation
of time. By Swahili time the day commences at 7 a.m. In the past, it was no wonder that chiefs,
burning with a sense of wrong and the humiliation they had suffered, preferred to raise their
tribe and perish by the sword than endure a life that bore such indignity and shame.

But our job has not been rendered any easier by the difficulty we have experienced in pacifying
the simple blacks by attempts to dispel the fears of rapine and murder at the hands of our
soldiers, with which the Germans have been at such pains to saturate the native mind. This,
in conjunction with the suspicion which the native of German East Africa has for any European,
and more especially his horror of war, has made us prepared to see the native bolt at our approach.

But if our task has succeeded, there has been striking ill success on the part of the Germans
in organising and inducing, in spite of their many attempts and the obvious danger to their
own women and children, these native tribes to oppose our advance. Fortunately for us, and
for the white women of the country, tribes will not easily combine, and are loath to leave
their tribal territory.

Many of us have looked with some concern upon the mere possibility of this German colony being
returned to its former owners. We must remember that we shall inevitably lose the measure of
respect the native holds for us, if we contemplate giving back this province once more to German
ruling. Prestige alone is the factor in the future that will keep order among these savage
races who have now learnt to use the rifle and machine-gun, and have money in plenty to provide
themselves with ammunition. The war has done much to destroy the prestige that allows a white
man to dominate thousands of the natives. For to the indigenous inhabitants of the country,
the white man's ways are inexplicable; they cannot conceive a war conducted with such alternate
savagery and chivalry. To those who look upon the women of the vanquished as the victors' special
prize, the immunity from outrage that German women enjoy is beyond their comprehension. For
that reason we shall welcome the day when an official announcement is made that the British
Government have taken over the country. One would like to see big "indabas" held at every town
and centre in the country, formal raising of the Union Jack, cannon salutes, bands playing
and parades of soldiers.

GOOD FOR EVIL

When the rains had finished, by May, 1916, in the Belgian Congo, General Molitor began to move
upon Tanganyika. Soon our motor-boat flotilla and the Belgian launches and seaplanes had swept
the lake of German shipping; and the first Belgian force landed and occupied Ujiji, the terminus
of the Central Railway.

Then the blood of the Huns in Africa ran cold in their veins, and the fear that the advancing
Belgians would wreak vengeance for the crimes of Germany in Belgium and to the Belgian consuls
in prison in Tabora, gripped their vitals. Hastily they sent their women and children at all
speed east along the line to Tabora, the new Provincial capital, and planned to put up the
stiff rearguard actions that should delay the enemy, until the English might take Tabora and
save their women from Belgian hands. For the English, those soft-hearted fools, who had already
so well treated the women at Wilhelmstal, could be as easily persuaded to exercise their flabby
sentimentalism on the women and children in Tabora. So ran the German reasoning.

Slowly and relentlessly the Belgian columns swept eastward along the railway line, closely
co-operating with the British force advancing from Mwanza, south-east, toward the capital.
But, in Molitor, the German General Wable had met more than his match, and soon, outgeneralled
and out-manoeuvred, he had to rally on the last prepared position, west of Tabora. Then, daily,
went the German parlementaires under the white flag, that standard the enemy know so well how
to use, to the British General praying that he would occupy Tabora while Wable kept the Belgians
in check. But the British General was adamant, and would have none of it; and as Wable's shattered
forces fled to the bush to march south-east to where Lettow, the ever-vigilant, was keeping
watch, the Belgians entered the fair city of Tabora. And here were over five hundred German
women and children, clinging to the protection that the Governor's wife should gain for them.
For Frau von Schnee was a New Zealand woman, and she might be looked to to persuade the British
to restrain the Belgian Askari.

But there was no need. The behaviour of Belgian officers and their native soldiers was as correct
and gentlemanly as that of officers should be, and, to their relief and surprise, those white
women found the tables turned, and that their enemy could be as chivalrous to them as German
soldiers--their own brothers--had been vile to the wretched people of Belgium. There was no
nonsense about the Belgian General; stern and just, but very strict, he brought the German
population to heel and kept them there. Cap in hand, the German men came to him, and begged
to be allowed to work for the conqueror; their carpenters' shops, the blacksmiths' forges were
at the service of the high commander. No German on the footpaths; hats raised from obsequious
Teuton heads whenever a Belgian officer passes. How the chivalry of Belgium heaped coals of
fire upon the German heads! And had the Hun been of such, a fibre as to appreciate the lesson,
of what great value we might hope that it would be? But decent treatment never did appeal to
the German; he always held that clemency spelt weakness, and the fear of the avenging German
Michael. For did not the Emperor's Eagle now float over Paris and Petersburg? That he knew
well; for had not High Headquarters told him of the message from the Kaiser by wireless from
Nauen, the self-same message that conveyed to Lettow himself the Iron Cross decoration?

The Governor's wife was allowed to retain her palace and servants; but all German women were
kept strictly to their houses after six at night. No looting, no riots, no disturbance. And
German women began to be piqued at the calm indifference of smart Belgian officers to the favours
they might have had. Openly chagrined were the local Hun beauties at such a disregard of their
full-blown charms.

"I fear for our women and children in Tabora," said the German doctor to me in Morogoro. "Ach!
what will the Belgians do when they hear the tales that are told of our German troops in Belgium?
You don't believe these stories of German brutalities, do you?" he said anxiously, conciliatory.
But I did, and I told him so. "But you don't know the Belgian Askari; he is cannibal; he is
recruited from the pagan tribes in the forest of the Congo, he files his front teeth to a point,
and we know he is short of supplies. What is going to happen to German children? It is the
truth I tell you," he went on, evidently with very sincere feeling. "You know what became of
the 1,500 Kavirondo porters your Government lent to the Belgian General. Where are our prisoners
that the Belgians took in Ujiji and along the line? Eaten; all eaten." And he threw up his
hands tragically to heaven. "I know you won't believe it, but I swear to you that Rumpel's
story is true." Rumpel was Lettow's best intelligence agent. "Our scout was a prisoner with
a company of Belgian Askaris, you know, and it was only that the Belgian company commander
wanted to get information from him that he was not eaten at once. Haven't you heard the tale
that Rumpel tells after his escape? How the senior native officer came to his Belgian commander
and complained that they had no food, the villages were empty, not so much as an egg or chicken
to be got. Irritably, the Belgian officer shouted that the soldiers knew that no one had food,
and they must wait till they got to the next post on the morrow. 'But,' urged the native sergeant
softly, 'there are the prisoners.' 'Oh, the prisoners,' said the Belgian officer, relieved
by an easy way out of a very difficult situation. 'Well, not more than sixteen, remember that.'
And the sergeant went away."

This and countless other lies did the Germans tell us of our Belgian Allies. But how different
the truth when it reached us at last along the railway by our troops that came from the northern
column to join us at Morogoro. Not a German woman insulted; not one fat German child missing;
no occupied house even entered by the Belgian troops, not so much as a chicken stolen from
a German compound.

So just, so completely impartial was General Molitor, that he applied to German prisoners,
in territory then occupied by him, the very rules and regulations that the German command had
laid down for the governing of English and Belgian and other Allied prisoners. Only the vile,
the unspeakable regulations, and every ordinance in that printed list of German rules that
destroyed the prestige of the white man in the native's eyes, did he omit. If the Germans were
indifferent to this one elementary rule of the white race in equatorial Africa--the white man's
law that no white man be degraded before a native--then the Belgian would show the Hun how
to play the game.

"We must hack our way through," said Bethmann-Hollweg. And we, in Morogoro, were very curious
to see what manner of vengeance the Belgians might wreak. Nor would we have blamed them over-much
for anything they might have done. I had lived in German prisons with elderly Belgian officers
whose wives and grown-up daughters had been left behind in occupied parts of Belgium. We all
had shuddered at the stories they told us; nor did we wonder that these unhappy fathers had
often gone insane. And when we learnt the truth about Tabora, and knew too, to our disgust,
that such un-German clemency was attributed to Belgian fear of the avenging German Michael
and not to natural Belgian chivalry, we were furious. What can one do with such a people?

THE MECHANICAL TRANSPORT

A cloud of red dust along a rough bush track, a rattling jar approaching, and the donkey transport
pulls into the bushes to let the Juggernaut of the road go by. Swaying and plunging over the
rough ground, lurches one of our huge motor lorries. Perched high up upon the seat, face and
arms burnt dark brown by the tropical sun, is the driver. Stern faced and intent upon the road,
he slews his big ship into a better bit of road by hauling at the steering wheel. Beside him
on the seat the second driver. Ready to their hands the rifles that may save their precious
cargo from the marauding German patrol which lies hidden in the thick bush beside the road.
In the big body of the car behind are two thousand pounds of rations, and atop of all a smiling
"tota," the small native boy these drivers employ to light their fires and cook their food
at night. And this load is food for a whole brigade alone for half a day; so you may see how
necessary it is that this valuable cargo arrives in time.

It may sound to you, in sheltered London, a pleasant and agreeable thing to drive through this
strange new country full of the wild game that glimpses of Zoological Gardens in the past suggest.
"A Zoo without a blooming keeper." But there is no department of war that does such hard work
as these lorry drivers.

For them no rest in the day that is deemed a lucky one, if it provides them only with sixteen
hours' work. The infantry of the line have their periodical rests, a month it may be, of comparative
leisure before the enemy trenches. But for mechanical transport there is no peace, save such
as comes when back axles break, and the big land ship is dragged into the bush to be repaired.
Hot and sweating men striving to renew some part or improvise, by bullock hide "reims," a temporary
road repair that will bring them limping back to the advance base. Here the company workshop
waits to repair these derelicts of the road. Burning with malaria, when the hot sun draws the
lurking fever from their bones, tortured with dysentery, they've got to do their job until
they reach their lorry park again. But often the repair gang cannot reach a stranded lorry,
and the drivers, helpless before a big mechanical repair, have to camp out alongside their
car, till help arrives and tows them in. A tarpaulin rigged up along one side of the lorry,
poles cut from the thorn bush, and they have protection from the burning sun by day. A thorn
hedge, the native "boma," keeps out lions and the sneaking hyaena at night. Nor are their rifles
more than a half protection, for the '303 makes so clean a hole that it is often madness to
attempt to shoot a lion with it. Once wounded he is far more dangerous a foe. Here the "tota"
earns his pay, for he can hunt the native villages for "cuckoos," the native fowls, and eggs.

The load of rations must not, save at the last extremity, be broached.

And the roads they travel on: you never saw such things, mere bush tracks where the pioneers
have cut down trees and bushes, and left the stumps above the level earth. No easy job to steer
these great lumbering machines between these treacherous stumps. From early dawn to late night
you'll meet these leviathans of the road, diving into the bush to force a new road for themselves
when the old track is too deep in mud or dust, plunging and diving down water-courses or the
rocky river-beds, creeping with great care over the frail bridge that spans a deep ravine.
A bridge made up of tree-trunks laid lengthwise on wooden up-rights. The lion and the leopard
stand beside the road, with paw uplifted, in the glare of the headlights at night.

Nor is there only danger from flood and fever and the denizens of the forest. There is ever
to be feared the lurking German patrol that trains its dozen rifles upon the driver, knowing
full well that he must sit and quietly face it out, or the lorry, once out of control, plunges
against a tree and becomes, with both its drivers, the prey of these marauders. So, while his
mate fumbles with the bolt lever of his rifle, the driver takes a firmer grip of the wheel,
gives her more "juice," and plunges headlong down the road. At Handeni I once had a driver
with five bullets in him; they had not stopped him until he reached safety, and his mate was
able to take over. Nor does this exhaust the risks of his job, for there is the land mine,
buried in the soft dust of the road, or beneath the crazy bridge. Laid at night by the patrol
that harasses our lines of communication, they are the special danger of the first convoy to
come along the road in the morning. Troops we have not to spare to guard these long lines of
ours, so, in particularly dangerous places, the driver carries a small guard of soldiers on
the top of his freight behind him. Native patrols, very wise at noticing any derangement of
the surface dust, patrol the highways at dawn to lift these unwelcome souvenirs from the roads.

From South Africa, from home, and from Canada, come the drivers and mechanics of the motor
transport. The Canadians, stout fellows from Toronto, Winnipeg, and the Far West, enlisted
in the British A.S.C. in Canada, and arrived in England only to be sent to East Africa. It
seems at first sight a strange country to which to send these men from the north, but in fact
it was a very happy choice. For they got away from the cold dampness of England and Flanders
into the summer seas of the South Atlantic, where the flying fish and rainbow nautilus filled
them with surprise. Cape Town and Durban must have been for these Canadian lads a new world
only previously envisaged by them, in the big all-red map that hangs on the walls of Canadian
schools, A little difficult at first, apt to chafe at the restrictions that, though perhaps
not necessary for themselves in particular, were yet essential in preserving discipline in
the whole mixed unit, rather inclined to resent certain phases of soldier life. But soon they
settled down to do their job, to take trouble over their work rather than make trouble by grousing
over it. Well they proved their worth by the number that now fill the non-commissioned ranks,
and may be judged by the commendation of their commanding officers. I used to think that they
came to see me in particular, at the long sick parades I held in Morogoro and Handeni, because
I too lived, like some of them, in British Columbia. I cannot flatter my soul by thinking that
they came for the special quality of the quinine or medical advice I dished out to them. It
may have been that they were far from home, and I seemed a friend in a very strange land.

All I know is, that I felt a great compliment was paid to me that they should be grateful for
the often hurried and small attentions that I could give them. They would sometimes bring me
Canadian papers that took me back two and a half years, to the time when I came to England
on a six weeks' holiday from my work, a holiday that has now spun out to three and a half years,
and shows every sign of going further still. Very well these men stood the climate, in spite
of their fair colouring, in a country that penalises the blonde races more than the brown,
that makes us pay for our want of protective pigment. One stout fellow I well remember, who
had acute appendicitis at Morogoro, was the driver, or engineer as they are called, of a Grand
Trunk Pacific train that ran from Edmonton in Alberta to Prince Rupert on the Pacific. We operated
upon him, and, though he did very well, yet he must have suffered many things from our want
of nursing in his convalescence. Very considerate and uncomplaining he was, like all the good
fellows in our hospital, giving no trouble, and making every allowance for our difficulties.
In fact, the great trouble one has among soldiers, is to get them to make any complaint to
their own medical officer. If one suggests things to them or asks them leading questions, they
will sometimes admit to certain deficiencies in food or treatment by the orderlies. But of
what one did oneself or what the German sister left undone, there was never a complaint to
me; though I rather think there were many grouses when once they left the hospital. It seemed
to me that it was not that they didn't know better, or that they didn't know that certain things
were wrong, for it is a very intelligent army, this of ours, and has been in hospital before
in civil life, but all along I felt that they did not like to hurt one's feelings by not getting
well as quickly as they might, and that they often pretended to a degree of comfort and ease
from pain that I'm sure was not the fact. But this phase is often met with in civil life too,
a doctor has much to be grateful for that many of his patients insist on getting well or saying
that they are better, just to please him.

The German surgical sister was always kind to our men, and when the serious state of the wound
was past she would do the dressings herself, while I went about some other work. Our men liked
her, and I remember that our Canadian engine driver offered her, in his kindly way, to give
her a free pass on the Grand Trunk Railway. He little knew that this German sister represented
no small part of two big German shipping companies that could once have provided her with free
passes over any railway in the world. I had under me, too, a couple of Canadian drivers whose
lorry in crossing one of the ramshackle bridges over a river, hit the railing on the side and
plunged to the rocky depths below. A loose tree-trunk that formed the roadbed of the bridge
had jerked the steering wheel from the driver's hands. Over went the lorry on top of them,
and the mercy of Providence only interposed a big rock that left room below for the two drivers
to escape the crushing that would have killed them. Badly bruised only, they left me later
to recover of their contusion in the hospital at Dar-es-Salaam.

THE SURGERY OF THIS WAR

"Please give us a drop of Johnnie Walker before you do my dressing," said my Irish sergeant,
who had lost his leg in the fight at Kangata. Lest you might think that by "Johnnie Walker"
he asked for his favourite brand of whiskey, I may tell you that we had no stimulant of that
kind with us. It was chloroform he wanted to dull the pain that dressing his severed nerves
entailed. Always full of cheer and blarney, he kept our ward alive, only when the time for
daily dressing came round did his countenance fall. Then anxious eyes begged for ease from
pain. But this once over, he laid his tired dirty face upon the embroidered pillow and jested
of all the things the careful German housewife would say could she but see her embroidered
sheets and the blue silk cushion from her drawing-room that kept his amputated leg from jars.
We had no water to wash the men, barely enough for cooking and for surgical dressings, but
there were silk bedspreads and eiderdown quilts and all the treasures of German sitting-rooms.
And the fact that they were taken from the Germans was balm to these wounded men.

There was Murray, a regimental sergeant-major, his leg badly broken by the lead slug from a
German Askari's rifle, ever the fore-most at the padre's services, chanting the responses and
leading all the hymns. And Wehmeyer, the young Boer, who had accidentally blown a great hole
through his leg above the ankle joint. And Green, the Rhodesian sergeant who had been brought
in, almost in extremis, with blackwater. Nor was his condition improved by the experience of
having been blown up in the ambulance by a land mine, hidden in the thick dust of the road.
Thrown into the air by the force of the explosion, the car had turned over on him and the driver,
who was killed. And there was Becker the blue-eyed German prisoner with a bullet through his
femoral artery and his hip. Blanched from loss of blood before I could tie the vessel and stanch
the bleeding, his leg suspended in our improvised splints, and on his way to make a splendid
recovery. And Taube, another German prisoner, shot through the abdomen, and recovering after
his operation. Gentle and conciliatory, with eyes of a frightened rabbit, he was the son of
the great Taube, the physiologist of Dresden.

Cheek by jowl, in the best bed, was Zahn, the hated Ober-Leutenant, loathed by his own men,
one of whom wrote in his diary that he loved to see the bombardment of Tanga, "for Zahn was
there, the ----, and I hope he'll meet a 12-inch shell." Jealous of his officer's prerogative,
and disinclined to be nursed in the same ward with our soldiers and his own, he gave a lot
of trouble, demanding inordinately, victimising our orderly, unashamedly selfish. But he was
sheltered from my wrath by the grave gunshot wound of his thigh. Cowardly under suffering,
he was in striking contrast to Becker, who stood graver pain with hardly a flinch. After a
great struggle he was eventually moved to Korogwe to the stationary hospital. There it became
necessary to amputate his leg, and Zahn surrendered what little courage he had left. "No leg
to-night, no Zahn to-morrow," he said to his nurse. And he was right, for at eleven that night
he had no leg, and at two the next morning there was no Zahn upon this earth.

And there was Sergeant Eve of the South African Infantry, who got a D.C.M., a Londoner, and
of unquenchable good humour. Vastly pleased with the daily bottle of stout we got for him with
such difficulty, from supplies, he faced the awful daily dressing of his shattered leg without
flinching, pretending to great comfort and an excellent position of his splint, which his crooked
leg and my practised eye belied.

And there was Smith, yet a boy, but who always felt "champion" and "quite comfortable," though
his days were few in the land and his pain must have been very severe. Yet in his case he had
days of that merciful euthanasia, the wonderful ease from pain that sometimes lasts for days
before the end. In great contrast with these was an individual with a wound through the fleshy
part of the thigh, by far the least seriously wounded of all in the ward, who never failed
with his unending requests to the patient orderlies and his eternal complainings, until a public
dressing-down from me brought him to heel. And Glover who wept that I had lost his bullet,
that unforgivable carelessness in a surgeon that allows a bullet, removed at an operation,
to be thrown away with discarded dressings.

But, of all, the perfect prince was De La Motte, a subaltern in the 29th Punjabis, ever the
leader of the dangerous patrols along the native bush paths that give themselves so readily
to ambush. Shot through the spine and paralysed below the waist his life was only a question
of months. But if he had little time to live, he had determined to see it through with a gay
courage that was wonderful to see. Previously wounded in France, he yet seemed, though he cannot
possibly have been in ignorance, to be buoyed up with the perfect faith in recovery with which
fractured spines so often are endowed; never asking me awkward questions, he made it so easy
for me to do his daily dressing, so grateful for small attentions, and so ready to believe
me when I told him that it was only a question of weeks before he would be home again. And
in spite of all fears I have just heard he did get home to see his people, and by his cheerful
courage to rob Death of all his terrors.

MY OPERATING THEATRE AT HANDENI

Up the wide stone steps, under the arch of purple Bougainvillea and you are in my operating
theatre. A curtain of mosquito gauze screens it from the vulgar gaze. Behind these big wooden
doors a week ago was the office of this erstwhile German jail. To the left and right, now all
clean and white painted, were the living rooms of the German jailor and his wife, but for the
present they are transformed into special wards for severely wounded men. On the lime-washed
wall and very carefully preserved is "Gott strafe England" which the late occupants wrote in
charcoal as they fled. Strange how all German curses come home to roost, and move us to the
ridicule that hurts the Hun so much and so surely penetrates his pachydermatous hide. That
the "Hymn of Hate" should be with us a cause for jest, and "strafe" be adopted, with enthusiasm,
into the English language, he cannot understand. To him, as often to our own selves, we shall
always be incomprehensible.

Through the gauze screen on to the white operating table passed all the flotsam of wounded
humanity in the summer months. All the human wreckage that marked the savage bush fighting
from German Bridge to Morogoro came to me upon this table. And its white cleanness, our towels
and surgical gloves and overalls, filled them with a sense of comfort and of safety after weary
and perilous journeys, that was in no way detracted from by the gleaming instruments laid out
beside the table. Even this chamber of pain was a haven of refuge to these broken men after
long jolting rides over execrable roads.

But a particularist among surgeons would have found much to disapprove of in this room. Cracks
in the stone floor let in migrating bands of red ants that no disinfectant would drive away.
Arrow slit windows, high up in the walls, gave ingress to the African swallow, redheaded and
red-backed, whose tuneful song was a perpetual delight. His nests adorned the frieze, but they
were full of squeaking youngsters and we could not shut the parents out. So we banished them
during operating hours by screens of mosquito gauze; and to reward us, they sang to our bedridden
men from ward window-sills.

But despite these shortcomings of the operating theatre itself, we did good work here, and
got splendid results. For God was good, and the clean soil took pity upon our many deficiencies.
Earth, that in France or Gallipoli hid the germs of gangrene and tetanus, here merely produced
a mild infection. Lucky for us that we did not need to inject the wounded with tetanus antitoxin.
But an added charm was given to our work by the necessity of improvisation. Broken legs were
put up in plaster casings with metal interruptions, so that the painful limb might be at rest,
and yet the wound be free for daily dressings. The Huns left us plaster of Paris, damp indeed
but still serviceable after drying; the corrugated iron roofing of the native jail provided
us with the necessary metal. Then by metal hoops the leg was slung from home-made cradles,
and I defy the most modern hospital to show me anything more comfortable or efficient. Broken
thighs were suspended in slings from poles above the bed, painted the red, white and black
that marked German Government Survey posts. Naturally in a field hospital such as this, we
had no nurses; but our orderlies, torn from mine shafts of Dumfriesshire and the engine sheds
of the North British Railway, did their best, and compensated by much kindliness for their
lack of nursing training.

Sadly in need were we of trained nurses; for the bedsores that developed in the night were
a perpetual terror. Ring pillows we made out of grass and bandages, but a fractured thigh,
as you know, must lie upon his back, and we had little enough rectified spirit to harden the
complaining flesh. But nurses we could not have at so advanced a post as this. The saving factor
of all our work lay in the natural goodness of the men. They felt that many things were not
right; for ours is a highly intelligent army and knows more of medicine and surgery than we,
in our blindness, realise. But they made light of their troubles, as they learnt the difficulties
we laboured with. So grateful were they for small attentions. That we should go out of our
way to take pains to obtain embroidered sheets and lace-edged pillows, absolved us in their
eyes from all the want of surgical nursing. Liberal morphia we had to give to compensate for
nursing defects. I have long felt that I would rather work for sick soldiers than for any class
of humanity; and in fifteen years I have come to know the sick human animal in all his forms.
So that the least that one could do was to scheme to get the precious egg by private barter
with the natives, and to find the silk pillow that spelt comfort, but was the anathema of asepsis.
No wonder that such splendid and uncomplaining victims spurred us to our best endeavours and
made of toil a very joy.

SOME AFRICAN DISEASES

This is the season of blackwater fever, the pestilence that stalks in the noontide and the
terror of tropical campaigning. Hitherto with the exception of the Rhodesians who have had
this disease previously in their northern territory, or men who have come from the Congo or
the shores of the Great Lakes, our army has been fairly free from this dread visitation. The
campaigning area of the coast and the railway line of British East Africa that gave our men
malaria in plenty during the first two years of war, had not provided many of those focal areas
in which this disease is distributed. The Loyal North Lancashires and the 25th Royal Fusiliers
had been but little affected. The Usambara Valley along the Tanga-Moschi railway was also fairly
free. On the big trek from Kilimanjaro to Morogoro the blackwater cases were almost entirely
confined to Rhodesians and to the Kashmiris, who suffer in this way in their native mountains
of Nepal. But once we struck the Central Railway and penetrated south towards the delta of
the Rufigi the tale was different. British and South African troops began to arrive in the
grip of this fell malady. It was written on their faces as they were lifted from ambulance
or mule waggon. There was no need to seek the cause in the scrap of paper that was the sick
report. All who ran could read it in the blanched lips, the grey-green pallor of their faces,
the jaundiced eye, the hurried breathing. Thereupon came three days' struggle with Azrael's
pale shape before the blackwater gave place to the natural colour again, or until the secreting
mechanism gave up the contest altogether and the Destroying Angel settled firmly on his prey.
At first, if there was no vomiting, it was easy to ply the hourly drinks of tea and water and
medicine. But once deadly and exhausting vomiting had begun, one could no longer feed the victim
by the mouth. Then came the keener struggle for life, for fluid was essential and had to be
given by other ways and means. Into the soft folds of the skin of the arm-pits, breast and
flanks we ran in salt solution by the pint. The veins of the arms we brought into service,
that we might pour in this vitalising fluid. Day and night the fight goes on for three days,
until it is won or lost. Here again, as in tick fever, we use the preparation 606, for which
we are indebted to the great Ehrlich. Champagne is a great stand-by. So well recognised is
the latter remedy that all old hands at tropical travel take with them a case of "bubbly water"
for such occasions as these. Blessed morphia, too, brings ease of vomiting and is a priceless boon.

You ask me the cause of this disease, and I have to admit that among the authorities themselves
there are no settled convictions. Some hold--and for my part I am with them--that the attack
is caused by quinine given in too large a dose to a subject who is rotten with malaria. But
there are others who maintain that it is a malarial manifestation only, and that the big dose
of quinine, which seems to some to precipitate the attack, is only a coincidence. Be that as
it may, there is little difference in the treatment adopted by either school. Death achieves
his victory as frequently with one as with another. Certain it is that, to the common mind,
quinine is the reputed cause and is avoided in large doses by men who have once had blackwater,
or who are in that low rotten state that predisposes to it. In one point all agree, that one
must be saturated with malaria before blackwater can develop. So great is the aversion shown
by some men to the big doses of quinine as laid down by regulations, that men have often refused
to take their quinine. Others, too, who have protested at first, take their quinine ration
only to find themselves in the grip of this disease within twelve hours. Such a case was a
Frenchman named Canarie (and the colour of his face, upon admission, did not belie his name),
who had been treated for blackwater fever by the great Koch in Uganda many years before, and
had been warned by him against big doses of quinine. That evening he was on my hands, fortunately
soon to recover, and to win a prolonged convalescent leave out of this rain to the sunny and
non-malarial slopes of Wynberg.

Seldom do the rumbling ambulances roll in but among their human freight is some poor wretch
snoring into unconsciousness or in the throes of epileptiform convulsions. Custom has sharpened
our clinical instinct, and where, in civil life, we would look for meningitis, now we only
write cerebral malaria, and search the senseless soldier's pay-book for the name that we may
put upon the "dangerous list." As this name is flashed 12,000 miles to England, I sometimes
wonder what conception of malaria his anxious relatives can have.

For there is no aspect of brain diseases that cerebral malaria cannot simulate; deep coma or
frantic struggling delirium. A drop of blood from the lobe of the ear and the microscope reveals
the deadly "crescents"--the form the subtertian parasite assumes in this condition. No time
this for waiting or expectant treatment. Quinine must be given in huge doses, regardless of
the danger of blackwater, and into the muscles or, dissolved in salt solution, into the veins.
The Germans have left me some fine hollow needles that practice makes easy to pass into the
distended swollen veins. Through this needle large doses of quinine are injected, and in six
hours usually no crescent remains to be seen. As a rule, conscious life returns to these senseless
bodies after some hours; but, unhappily, such success does not always crown our efforts. Then
it is the padre's turn, and in the cool of the following afternoon the firing party, with arms
reversed, toils behind our sky-pilot to that graveyard on the sunlit slopes of Mount Uluguru,
where our surgical failures are put to rest.

One can always tell, you know, the onset of such a complication as this; for when one finds
the victim of malaria hazy and stupid after his fever has abated; and, more especially, if
he develops wandering tendencies, leaving his stretcher at night to choose another bed in the
ward, often to the protesting consternation of its present occupant, then one passes the word
to Sister Elizabeth to get the transfusion apparatus ready. I shall not readily forget one
stout fellow, a white company sergeant-major in the Gold Coast Regiment, who was lost in the
bush and discovered after many days in the grip of this fell disease. Him they bore swiftly
to me at Handeni, and after many injections and convulsions innumerable, he was restored to
conscious life again. Sent back by me eventually to Korogwe with a letter advising his invaliding
out of the country, he opened and read my report upon the way. But he was of those who do not
take kindly to invaliding. Who would run his machine-gun section, if he were away, and his
battalion in action? Who like he could know the language and the little failings of his dusky
machine-gun crew that he had trained so long and so carefully in the Cameroon? So he appeared
in the books of the Stationary Hospital at Korogwe as an ordinary case of convalescent malaria
on his own statement. And when they would send him still further back to M'buyuni he broke
out from hospital one night, and, with his native orderly, boarded the train to Railhead and
marched the other 200 miles to Morogoro. Here I met him on the road starting out on the next
long trek of 125 miles to Kissaki. For news had come to him that the Gold Coast Regiment had
been in action and their impetuous courage rewarded by captured enemy guns and a long casualty
list. But he was determined and unrepentant, one of his beloved machine-guns had been put out
of action. How could I hold him back? So joining forces with another white sergeant of his
regiment, who was hardly recovered from a wound, these two good fellows set out with a note
that, this time, was not to be destroyed, for the instruction of their regimental doctor.

A third scourge responsible for frequent admissions into hospital is "tick-fever." Rather an
unpleasant name, isn't it? And in its course and effect it fully acts up to its reputation.
More commonly known as "relapsing fever," this illness attacks men who have been sleeping on
the floor of native huts, which in this country are swarming with these parasites. Once in
seven days for five or seven weeks these men burn with high fever--higher and more violent
even than malaria--but sooner over. As you may imagine, it leaves them very debilitated; for
no sooner does the victim recover from one attack than another is due. The ticks that are the
host of the spirillum, the actual cause of the disease, live in the soft earth on the floor
of native huts at the junction of the vertical cane rods and the soil. Here, by scraping, you
may discover hundreds of these loathsome beasts in every foot of wall. But they are fortunately
different from the grass ticks that, though unpleasant, are not dangerous to man. For the tick
that carries the spirillum is blind and cannot climb any smooth surface. So to one sleeping
on a bed or even a native "machela" above the ground, he is harmless. But woe betide the tired
soldier who attempts to escape the tropical rain by taking refuge on the floor. In sleep he
is attacked, and when his blind assailant is full of blood he drops off; so the soldier may
never know that he has been bitten. I got twelve cases alone from one company of the Rhodesians,
who sheltered in a native village near Kissaki. Of course, not every tick is infected, and
for that we have to be very grateful. At the height of the fever the spirillum appears in the
blood as an attenuated, worm-like creature, actively struggling and squirming among the blood
corpuscles. A drop of blood taken from the ear shows hundreds of these young snakes beneath
the microscope. For the cure we are again indebted to that excellent Hun bacteriologist Ehrlich,
who gave us .606--a strong arsenical preparation that we dissolve in a pint of salt solution,
and inject into the veins at the height of the paroxysm of fever. This definitely destroys
the spirillum, and no further attacks of fever result; but this injection, once its work is
done, does not confer immunity from other attacks. It is typical of the Hun and his anti-Semitic
feelings that Ehrlich, the most distinguished of German scientists, perhaps, after Koch, has
never received the due reward of all the distinction he has conferred on German medicine, for
the offence that he was a Jew. We should have honoured him, as we have done Jenner or Lister.

Relapsing, or Rückfall fever, as the Germans call it, was one of the common dodges used by
them to deceive the ingenuous British doctor. For the subtle Hun prisoner knew that, if he
pretended to this disease, it would win him at least a week in the grateful comfort of a hospital,
and perchance the ministering joys conferred by German nursing sisters, until the expected
relapse did not occur; then the British doctor, realising the extent of his deception, would
thrust these shameless malingerers to the cold comfort of the prison camp.

How is it, you might ask me, that there are any natives left, if tropical Africa is so full
of such beastly diseases as this? Is it that the native is naturally immune, or is it that
the white man is of such a precious quality that he alone is attacked by these parasites and
poisonous biting flies? The fact is that the native is affected also, and in childhood chiefly,
so that the infant mortality in many native tribes is very high. And there is little doubt
that repeated attacks of malaria in youth, if recovered from, do confer a kind of protection
against attacks in adult life. But this is not the case with newly introduced disease; for
the sleeping sickness that came to Uganda along the caravan routes from the Congo, has swept
away fully a million of the natives along the shores of Lake Victoria Nyanza.

But the native has a sure sense of the unhealthiness of any locality, and one must be prepared
for trouble when one notices that the native villages are built up on the hillsides. This was
specially remarked by us on our long trek down the Pangani, and thus we were warned of the
fever that lurked in the bright green lush meadows beside the water, and the "fly" that soon
overtook our transport mules and cattle and the horses of General Brits' 2nd Mounted Brigade.
At first we thought the columns of smoke along the mountain-sides beside the Pangani were signal
fires for the enemy; but before long, when the roads were choked with victims of "fly" and
horse-sickness, we realised the wisdom that induced the simple native to take his sheep and
cattle up the hillsides and above the danger zone. When one spends only a short time in some
native huts, it is quite clear how he escapes infection. For the floor is covered with a layer
of wood ashes that is usually deadly to bugs and fleas and ticks and other crawling beasts;
and the atmosphere is so full of wood smoke that the most enterprising mosquito or tsetse-fly
would flee, as we do, choking from the acrid smoke. So the native fire that burns within his
hut day and night not only serves to cook his food and to keep wild beasts away, but also supplies
him with an excellent form of Keating's Powder for the floor and smoke to drive the winged
insects from the grateful warmth of his fireside.

HORSE-SICKNESS

Lying beside the road with outstretched neck and a spume of white froth on nose and muzzle
are the horses of the 2nd Mounted Brigade; with bodies swollen by the decomposition that sets
in so rapidly in this sun, and smelling to high heaven, are the fine young horses that came
so gallantly through Kahe some ten days ago. "Brits' violets" the Tommies call them, as they
seek a site to windward to pitch their tents. "Hyacinths" they mutter, as the wind changes
in the night, and drives them choking from their blankets, illustrating the truth of the South
African "Kopje-Book" maxim, "One horse suffices to move a camp--if he be dead enough." For
weeks after the Brigade passed through M'Kalamo the air was full of stench, and the bush at
night alive with lions coming for the feast. For this is horse-sickness, the plague that strikes
an apparently healthy horse dead in his tracks, while the Boer trooper hastily removes bridle
and saddle and picks another horse from the drove of remounts that follow after. No time to
drag the body off the road; so the huge motor lorries choose another track in the bush to avoid
this unwholesome obstruction.

Horse-sickness takes ten short days to develop after infection, and the organism is so tiny
that it passes through the finest filter and is ultramicroscopic. That means that it is too
small to be recognised by the high power of an ordinary microscope. There was horse-sickness
in the bush meadows beside the river near Kahe. Careless troopers watered their horses, after
sundown, when the dew was on the grass and death lurked in the evening moisture where it had
been absent in the dry heat of the afternoon.

THE WOUNDED FROM KISSAKI

Two very busy days were before us when the wounded came in from Kissaki, so badly shaken and
so pale and wan after their journey. They had been cared for by the Field Ambulance before
I got them, and by the extraordinary excellence of the surgery paid the greatest of tributes
to the care of the surgeons in front. The German hospital there, half finished--for our advance
had been far ahead of German calculations-- fell into our hands and with it a German doctor
and some nurses. The nurses had been very kind to our men and worked well for our doctors,
but they had followed the usual German custom in this country, of being too liberal with morphia.
That this drug can become a curse is well known, though it is, when given in reason, the greatest
blessing, the most priceless boon of war. One feels perhaps that the sisters had given it without
the surgeon's knowledge, and not entirely to give ease from pain, but also perhaps to give
rest to the ward, the quiet that would allow these over-worked women to get some sleep themselves.
It was written on the faces of the three amputation cases that they had had too much morphia.
And as this drug robs men of their appetite, keeps them thin, and prevents their wounds from
healing, it became my unpleasant task to break them of it. This was only to be done by hardening
one's heart, by giving bromide and stout, and insisting on the egg and milk that interspaced
all meals. It is so easy to get a reputation for kindness by being too complacent in giving
way to requests for morphia. It made one feel such an absolute brute to disregard the wistful
pleading eye, the hands that tugged at the mosquito curtains to show they were awake, when,
late at night, I made my evening round. But it had to be done, and I fear the work and the
sun and the tropics made one's temper very short, particularly when it was only possible by
losing one's temper to preserve the indifference to these influences that was necessary to
complete the cure. It was very hard on them at the time, especially as they were rotten with
malaria and tick fever, in addition to their wounds. But there were other ways in which one
made it up to them, if they did but know it. Nor did they see that quinine given by the veins,
so much more trouble to me and to the sister, was better for them than the quinine tablet that
was so easily swallowed, and so ineffectual. Nor could they, one thought, always know that
606 had to be given for tick fever, and that it was of no value save when given at the height
of fever, when they felt so miserable and so disinclined to be disturbed.

There was Shelley, the Irishman, a big policeman from Johannesburg, badly wounded in the thigh.
He had been taken prisoner by the Germans and remained so for three days, until our next advance
found him installed in the German hospital. His wound was so bad that amputation alone was
left to do. When the worst of the dressings was over and the stage of daily change of gauze
and bandage had arrived, he always liked Sister Elizabeth to do his dressings. Sister's hands
were much more gentle than mine, and Shelley always associated me with pain, little knowing
that, if a dressing is to be well and properly done, it is always inseparable from a certain
amount of suffering. But I saw through his blarney, and he was added to the list of those who
preferred sister's hands to my attentions.

And there was Rose, a mere lad, who had also lost a leg from wounds; he lay awake at night,
though not in great pain, during the process of breaking him of the morphia habit. When I pretended
not to hear his little moan, as I made my evening round, he tugged at his mosquito curtain
to show that he was awake. But asperin and bromide and a nightly drink of hot brandy and water
soon broke off this habit. After that it was easy to cut off the alcohol by degrees as he grew
to like his eggs in milk the more. He, too, always had some reason why Sister should do his
dressings, and I think that Sister Elizabeth and he plotted together that I should have some
other more important job to do when Rose's turn came to go upon the table.

Then there was Parsons, the printer, who in times of peace produced the Rand Daily Mail; he
had also lost a leg and he surprised me with his special knowledge of the various qualities
of paper.

In the corner of the verandah that had been turned into an extra ward by screening it off with
native reed-fencing was Gilfillan, the most perfect patient. Propping his foot against the
wall to correct the foot-drop that division of the nerve of his leg had caused, he had passed
many sleepless nights in his long and wearisome convalescence.

Beside the door, beckoning to me in a mysterious manner, was Drury, a trooper in the South
African Horse. In his eyes a suspicious light, as he earnestly requested to be moved. "For
God's sake take me away, they're trying to poison my food; and those Germans over there are
going to shoot me to-night." This poor lad had been shot badly through the shoulder, and only
by the skill of Moffat, the surgeon from Cape Town, had he retained what was left of his shattered
arm. Now malaria, in addition, had him in its grip, and his mental condition told me plainly
that his brain was being affected. With the greatest difficulty Sister Elizabeth and I persuaded
him to undergo the quinine transfusion into his veins that restored him to sober sense the
next day. "I really did think those two German prisoners were going to shoot me," he said.
But the two prisoners in his ward were more afraid of him than he of them, and their broken
legs, for they had got in the way of one of our machine-guns, precluded any movement from their
beds. Our men were extraordinarily kind to German prisoners in the ward. The Boers were different;
they were never unkind, but they ignored them completely, for the Union of South Africa had
too much to forgive in the Rebellion and in German South-West Africa. "Now then, Fritz, there
ain't no bleeding sausage for you this morning;" and Fritz, smilingly obedient, stretched out
his hand for the cold bacon that was his breakfast. Toward the end Sister Hildegarde was just
as kind to our men as she was to her own people, and she was highly indignant with me when
I stopped the night orderly from waking her, early one morning, when I had to transfuse a blackwater
case with salt solution. She thought, she who had had quite enough to do the day before, that
I did not call her because I thought she did not want to get up. She felt that I was tacitly
drawing a distinction between her conduct of that morning and the self-denial of the other
night, when she and Elizabeth sat up all night and day with a German soldier who had perforated
his intestines during an attack of typhoid fever. I had operated upon him to close the hole
the typhoid ulcer had made. The German doctor, to whom we had given his liberty, in order that
he might attend the civil population, and whom I had called in consultation over the case,
had disagreed with our diagnosis. But I had overruled him, and at the operation was glad to
be able to show him and the German sisters that our diagnosis was right, and that I was not
operating on him just because he happened to be a prisoner of war. The German sisters were
grateful to us for getting up at night and in the early morning to give him the salt solution
that might save his life, and they repaid it in the only way they could, by kindness to our
men. But in any case they could not help liking our sick soldiers, and many is the time that
they have been indignant with me for deficiencies in food and equipment which I could not help.
"Our German soldiers would have complained until their cries reached Lettow himself," they
said, "if they had to put up with what you make your soldiers endure."

And if, at first, Hildegarde, of the sour and disapproving face, did little irregular things
for wounded German soldiers, faked temperature charts, prepared little forbidden meals at night,
and in other ways pretended to a degree of illness in her German soldiers that my clinical
eye refused to see, I could not altogether blame her. When I remembered the treatment that
I saw our sick and wounded prisoners in Germany get from the Hun doctor, I was often furious,
and determined to do a bit of "strafing" on my own. But I could not forget that the French
and Belgian nurses did just the same for our wounded in German hands, adding bandages to unwounded
limbs, describing to the German doctor our sleepless nights of pain when the walls of that
French convent had echoed only to our snores, preparing delicious feasts, at night, for us
to compensate for German rations, and in many ways contriving to keep us longer in their hands
and to postpone the journey that would land us in the vileness of a German prison hospital.
Hildegarde had her troubles too, for she had not heard for two years of her lover in Germany,
whose mild and bespectacled face peered from a photograph in her room. He did not look to be
made of heroic mould, but who can tell? Long ago he may have bitten the dust of Flanders or
found another sweetheart to console him. And the native hospital boys, swift to recognise the
changes of war and the comparative leniency of British discipline, got out of hand and failed
to clean and scrub as they did in former days. Then I would inquire and uphold Hildegarde,
and the recalcitrant Mahomed would be marched off to receive fifteen of the best from the Provost
Sergeant.

MY OPERATING THEATRE IN MOROGORO

"Jambo bwona," and the sycophantic Ali would leap to his feet and raise the dirty red fez that
adorned his head. "Jambo," said Nazoro, the senior boy, standing to attention. For Nazoro was
a Wanyamwezi from Lake Tanganyika and disdained any of Ali's dodges to conciliate me. Graceful
as a deer was Nazoro, and a good Askari lost in a better operating-room boy. This was my morning
greeting as I peeped in before breakfast to see that the operating theatre was swept and garnished
for the day's work. "Good morning," said Elizabeth, looking up from the steriliser where she
was preparing instruments for the morning operations.

Educated partly in England and speaking the language perfectly, she hated us only a little
less than the other Germans. But she was good at her job and conscientious, and a very great
help to us. Always as cheerful as one could expect a woman to be who worked for the English
soldiers and dressed the wounds of men to fit them to return to the field to fight against
her people again. Who knows that the tall Rhodesian, from whose feet she so skilfully removed
the "jiggers" and cleansed the wounds of a long trek, would not, all the sooner for her care,
perhaps be drawing a bead upon her husband in the near future? Very proud was Elizabeth of
her husband's Iron Cross that the Kaiser had sent by wireless only last week; news of which
was told to her by a wounded prisoner just brought in. For her husband, who, to judge from
his wife's description, must have been quite a good fellow for a Hun, was in command of one
of the "Schutzen" companies down near the Rufigi. He, too, had lived long in England to learn
the ways of English shipping companies that would prove of such value to the Deutsch Ost-Afrika
Line. So jubilant was she at the news that I had to give her a half-holiday to recover; twice
only in the four months we worked together was Elizabeth as happy: once when she got a letter,
by the infinite kindness of General Smuts, from her husband, and another time when a letter
came from Switzerland to tell her of her baby in Hamburg, her mother, and the two brothers
that were in the cavalry in the advance into Russia. At first, I must confess, I thought that
this charming and intelligent lady had offered to work for us, especially as she refused our
pay, in order to get information of the regiments and the prevailing diseases and sick rate
of our army. Soon I had reason to know that she played the game, and stayed only in order to
work to help the prisoners of her own people, and our wounded too. For any day her husband
might want help from us or might be brought in wounded to our hospital, where she could nurse
and tend to him herself. Our men liked to be attended by her, for she was gentler far than
I and never short-tempered with them.

Nazoro we found in chains on our arrival for the offence of having attacked a German, and only
his usefulness in the operating theatre saved him from the prison. In spite of the disapproval
of Elizabeth and other Germans, I struck off the chains, feeling that he very probably had
good excuse for his offence. But the Germans never failed to point out what a dangerous man
he was. Once indeed he was slack and casual, so I promptly ordered him to be "kibokoed," and
thereafter I could find no fault in his work and behaviour. Possessed of three wives, for he
was passing rich on sixteen rupees a month, he asked one day for leave to celebrate the arrival
of his first son. This I granted, only to be assailed a fortnight later by requests for leave
to attend his grandmother's funeral, and to see a sick friend. But these had a familiar ring
about them, and were not successful in procuring the lazy day that is so beloved by African
humanity.

But Ali was of a different mould; small and slight and anxious to please, he was nevertheless
swift to leave his work when once my back was turned. Forsaken in love--for he had been deserted
by his wife--he had forsworn the sex and buried his sorrows in "Pombe," the Kaffir beer that
effectually deprived him of what little intelligence he had. He was a "fundi" at taking out
jiggers, and sat for hours at the feet of our foot-soldiers; quickly adopting an air of authority
that occasionally brought him swift blows from East African troopers, who do not tolerate easily
such airs in a native, he produced the unbroken jigger flea with unfailing regularity and prescribed
the pail of disinfectant in which the tortured feet were soaked. Another long suit of his was
the bandage machine, and the hours he could steal away from real work were spent in endless
windings of washed though much stained bandages.

The German women hated us far more even than did the men; nor did those who, like Elizabeth,
knew England, fail to believe any the less the German stories of English wickedness. When I
told her of Portugal's entry into the war, and how our ancient and hereditary ally had handed
over to England sixty out of the seventy-one German ships she had taken in her ports, Elizabeth
snorted with rage and said that England, of course, forced all the little nations to fight
against Germany.

One of my friends, and not the least welcome, was Corporal Nel. A Boer, he had come up from
the Union with Brits. Tiring of war, he chose the nobler part played by the guard that cherishes
German captured cattle. Swiftly losing his job owing to an outbreak of East Coast fever among
his herd, he took to a vagabond's life. Wanted by the police in the Union, I am told, he avoided
his regiment and lived with the natives. Forced to come to me one night with an attack of angina
pectoris, he was grateful for the ease from suffering that amyl-nitrite, morphia and brandy
gave in that exquisitely painful affliction. Accordingly he consented to organise some natives
who should be armed with passes signed by me, and illuminated with Red Crosses and other impressive
signs, and collect eggs and chickens and fruit for my patients in hospital. So impressed were
the natives with the Ju-Ju conferred by my illumination of these passes with coloured chalks,
that they brought me a daily and most welcome supply of these necessaries for our men. But
the arm of the Law is long, and it sought out Corporal Nel within the native hut in which he
made his home. And soon, to my sorrow and the infinite grief of our lambs in hospital, for
whom those eggs, chickens, mangoes, and bananas spelt so much in the way of change of food,
the Provost Sergeant had this wanderer in his chitches.

THE GERMAN IN PEACE AND WAR

"What do I think of this country, and how does the Hun of East Africa compare with his European
brother?" you ask me. Well, to begin with the Colony, as of the greater importance, I must
confess to be very taken with it, and I hope most sincerely that our Government will never
give it back. Though it is not so suited as British East Africa for European colonisation,
there are yet great areas of sufficient elevation to allow of white women and children living,
for years, without suffering much from the vertical sun and the fevers of the country. There
are many places where one only sees a mosquito for three months of the year, the soil is very
fertile, and labour not only willing and efficient, but also very cheap. The European, too,
has learnt to live properly in this country, and to avoid the midday sun; all offices and works
are closed from twelve to three. If only man would learn wisdom in the amount of beer he drinks,
and the food he eats, the tale of disease would be much less.

The colony is fully developed with excellent railways, well-built houses, a tractable and well-disciplined
native population. Dar-es-Salaam in particular, seems to have been the apple of the German
colonial eye. There are fine mission stations in all the healthy regions of the country, and
great plantations of rubber, sisal, cotton, and corn abound. The white women and children,
though rather pasty and washed out after at least two years' residence in the country, do not
appear debilitated after their long tropical sojourn. The planters have, as a rule, invested
all their belongings in their plantations, and make the country more a home than our people
in East Africa, who are of a more wealthy and leisured class. Roads have been made and bridges
built. In fact, the pioneering and donkey work has all been done, and the country only waits
for us to step into our new inheritance.

To me it has been a source of surprise that the German, who consistently drinks beer in huge
quantities, takes little or no exercise, and cohabits with the black women of the country extensively,
should have performed such prodigies of endurance on trek in this campaign. One would have
thought that the Englishman, who keeps his body fitter for games, eschews beer for his liver's
sake, and finds that intimacy with the native population lowers his prestige, would have done
far better in this war than the German. That in all fairness he has not done so is due to the
fact that we, as an invading army, were unable to look after ourselves or to care for ourselves
in the same way as the German.

We have had to carry kit and heavy ammunition, to sleep with only a ground sheet beneath us,
through the tropic rains, to do without the shelter and protection of mosquito nets. The German
soldier, even a private in a white or Schutzen Kompanie, as distinct from the under-officer
with an Askari regiment or Feld Kompanie, as it is called, has had at least eight porters to
carry all his kit, his food, his bed, to have his food ready prepared at the halting-places,
and his bed erected, and mosquito curtains hung. Only on night patrols has he run risk from
the mosquito. "How can you ask your men to carry loads and then fight as well, in Equatorial
Africa?" they say to us. His captured chop boxes, for each individual is a separate unit and
has his own food carried and prepared for him, have provided us, often, with the only square
meals our men have enjoyed. Never short of food or drink or porters, ever marching toward his
food supplies along a predetermined line of retreat, the German walks toward his dinner, as
our men have marched away from theirs. Well paid too, five rupees a day pay and three rupees
a day ration money, he had had no stint of eggs and chickens and the fruit of the country,
that have been rarest of luxuries to us. "Far better if you had had fewer men and done them
properly in the matter of food and hospitals and porters," captured German officers have often
said to me. "How your men can stand it and do such marches is incredible to us." That is always
the tenour of their remarks, their criticism, and they are clearly right, had such a policy
been a practicable one for us, which it was not. At first the feeling between the soldiers
of the two countries was good and war was conducted, even by them, in a more or less chivalrous
manner. We thought the East African Hun a better fellow than his European brother. But it was
only because he knew the game was up in East Africa, and thought that he had better behave
properly, lest the retribution, that would be sure to follow, would fall heavily upon him.
Later we found him to be the same old Hun, the identical savage that we know in Europe; the
fear of consequences only restrains him here. It is his nature and the teaching of his schools
and professors.

We have often been amazed at the disclosures from German officers' pocket-books. In the same
oiled silk wrapping we find photographs of his wife and children, and cheek by jowl with them,
the photographs of abandoned women and filthy pictures, such as can be bought in low quarters
of big European cities. Their absence of taste in these matters has been incomprehensible to
us. When we have taxed them with it, they are unashamed. "It is you who are hypocrites," they
reply; "you like looking at forbidden pictures, if no one is about to see, but you don't carry
them in your pocket-books. We, however, are natural, we like to look at such things, why should
we not carry them with us?" If this be hypocrisy, I prefer the company of hypocrites. In their
houses it was the same; disgusting pictures, masquerading in the guise of art, adorned the
walls, evidences of corrupt taste and doubtful practices in every drawer and cupboard. Even
the Commandant of Bukoba, von Stuemer, and his name did not belie his nature, though, before
the war, quite popular with the British officials and planters of Uganda, had a queer taste
in photography. In the big family album were evidences of his astonishing domestic life; for
there were photographs of him in full regimentals, with medals and decorations, sitting on
a sofa beside his wife, who was in a state of nature. Others portrayed him without the conventionalities
of clothing, and his wife in evening dress.

Officers from the Cameroon have confirmed the filthy habits of the Huns and Hunnesses, how
they defiled the rooms in the hospital at Duala that they occupied just before they were sent
away; how disgusting were their habits in the cabins of the fine Atlantic liner that took them
back to Europe. Not that it is their normal custom; it was merely to render the rooms uninhabitable
for us who were to follow, and their special way of showing contempt and hatred for their foes.
Do you wonder that the stewards and crew of the Union Castle liner struck work rather than
convey and look after these beasts on the voyage to Europe? Our French missionary padre tells
me that it was just the same in Alsace. The incident at Zabern after the manoeuvres was entirely
due to the disgust and indignation of the French people at the defiling of their beds and bedrooms
by the German soldiers, who had been billeted upon them.

LOOTING

Looting, although you may not know it, is the natural impulse of primitive man. And in war
we are very primitive. To take what does not belong to one is very natural when a man is persuaded
that he can be absolved from the charge of theft by quoting military necessity. How surely
in war one sheds the conventions of society! It has the attraction of buried treasure; the
charm of getting something for nothing. But there are different ways or degrees of looting.

Now there were a few of us in German East Africa who had been in the Retreat from Mons and
the subsequent advance to the Marne and beyond it to the Aisne. Indelibly engraved upon our
minds were the pictures of French chateaux and farmhouses looted by the German troops in their
advance and abandoned to us in their retreat. All along the countless roads the German transport
had pressed, hurrying to the Aisne, were evidences of the loot of German officers and men.
In roadside ditches, half buried in the late summer vegetation, were pictures and bronzes,
china and statuary, the loot the German officer had chosen to adorn the walls of his ancestral
Schloss. Marble figures leant drunkenly against the wayside hedges, big brass clocks strewed
the ditches. Long before, of course, had the German rank and file been compelled to jettison
their prizes, for the transport horses were nearly foundered and only officers' loot could
be retained. Later, when the exhaustion of the horses was complete, and capture of the waggons
seemed imminent, the regimental equipment and food supply, and, finally, the loot of high officers
had to be abandoned. The whole story of that retreat was to be read in the discard by the roadside.
The regimental butcher had clung to his meat and the implements of his trade until the last;
and when we found the roads littered with carcases of oxen, sacks of pea flour and sausage
machines, we knew that we would shortly find the General's loot beside the hedge.

In the houses, too, both the chateaux and the comfortable French farmhouses, we saw what manner
of man the Hun could be in the matter of looting. Where the soldier could not loot he could
not refrain from destroying. Floors were knee-deep in women's gear, household goods, private
letters and all the treasures of French linen chests. Trampled by muddy German boots were the
fine whiteness of French bed-linen. Nor had the German soldier refrained from the last exhibit
of his "Kultur," but left filthy evidences of his bestial habits behind him to ensure that
the bedrooms would be uninhabitable by us.

Remembering all these things we wondered how our men would behave now that the tables were
turned and they in a position to loot the treasures of many German farms and plantation houses.
Of course, divisional orders against looting and wanton destruction were very strict. Where
houses were at the mercy of small patrols and bodies of our men under non-commissioned officers,
far from the path of the main advancing army, the temptation to all must have been immense,
and it speaks volumes for the natural goodness of our men and their ingrained sense of order
that never in this whole country was looting done by any of our troops. True many houses were
plundered, and there was a certain amount of wanton damage; but it was all done by the plundering
native or by the Hun himself in his retreat.

For our calculating enemy left no stone unturned to deprive us of any of the useful booty of
war. He deliberately destroyed and ravaged and burnt the property of his fellow-countrymen,
and mentally determined to send in the claim for damage against us. A German will always complain
and send in a bill of costs to us, when he is once assured of the protection of British troops.

Naturally, of course, we requisitioned and gave receipts for any article or property that might
be of use to us for our hospitals or our supplies. In fact, our scrupulous regard for enemy
property will probably result in very many fraudulent claims against our Government when the
war is over. How easy to add mythical articles of great value to the list attested to by the
signature of a British Staff officer. Who could blame a Hun when the British were such fools
and forgery of receipts so easy?

But such was the regard we paid to German women and children that, if a house were occupied,
we took nothing and disturbed nothing. A German farmhouse was an oasis of plenty amid a very
hungry army. It made us sometimes wonder whether it was quite right to leave German ducks and
fowls and sheep behind us, when we had to live on mealie meal and tough trek-ox. But the women
were so terrified, at first, that we gave such farms a wide berth when scarcity of water did
not force us to camp within the enclosures. Shortly, however, as is the German custom, these
women would profit by their immunity and come to regimental headquarters that listened so patiently
and courteously to the tale of pawpaws or mangoes--fruit that was really wild--vanished in
the night. In no campaign, I dare swear, has so much respect been given to occupied houses,
so much consideration to conquered people. The German Government paid this compliment to our
army, that they left their women and children behind to our tender mercies.

At Handeni, ours being a Casualty Clearing Station, our equipment included 200 stretchers,
with little hospital equipment, beyond the men's own blankets and their kit. No sooner did
we come along and install ourselves in the abandoned German fort than the 5th South African
Infantry were in action at Kangata to win 125 casualties. For us they were to nurse and keep
until convalescent; for there was no stationary hospital behind us, and forty miles of the
worst of bad roads robbed us of the chance of transporting them to the railway.

So every afternoon I went to German planters' houses (empty, of course), for forty miles around,
in a swift Ford car. And back in triumph we bore bedsteads and soft mattresses that heavy German
bodies so lately had impressed. Warm from the Hun, we brought them to our wounded. Down pillows,
soft eiderdown quilts for painful broken legs; mattresses for pain-racked bodies. And one's
reward the pleasure and appreciation our men showed at these attempts to ameliorate their lot.
They were so "bucked" to see us coming back at night laden with the treasures of German linen
chests. It would have done your heart good to see their dirty, unwashed faces grinning at me
from lace-edged pillows. Silk-covered cushions from Hun drawing-rooms for painful amputation
stumps!

So I had the double pleasure, all the expectancy and the delight of seeing our men so pleased.
Forty bedsteads and beds complete we found in that district, until the bare white-washed walls
of the jail were transformed. White paint, too, we discovered in plenty, and soon our wards
were virginal in their whiteness. And when I tell you that at one time I had no less than thirteen
gunshot fractures of thigh and leg alone and other wounds in proportion, in the hospital, you
may judge how necessary beds were.

But the natives had nearly always been before us, and the confusion was indescribable, drawers
turned out, the contents strewed upon the floors, cupboards broken into, and all portable articles
removed. Pathetic traces everywhere of the happy family life before war's devastating fingers
rifled all their treasures. Photographs, private letters, a doll's house, children's broken toys.

And from some letters one gathered that insight into the relations between the plantation owner
and the manager who lived there. At one farm, apparently owned by an Englishman who paid his
manager, a German Dane from Flensburg, the princely sum of 200 rupees a month, we found that
one, at least, of our own people knew how to grind the uttermost labour from his German employee.
For there were letters from the manager asking for leave after 2 ½ years' labour at this plantation,
and pointing out that the German Government had laid down the principle of European leave every
two years. To this came the cold reply that his employer cared nothing for German Government
regulations; the contract was for three years, and he would see to it that this provision was
carried out. One later letter begged for financial assistance to tide him over the coming months;
for his wife and children had been ill and he himself in hospital at Korogwe with blackwater
fever for two months. "And how shall I pay for food the next two months, if my pay is 200 rupees
only, and hospital expenses 500?"

SHERRY AND BITTERS

A common inquiry put to doctors is, "What do you think of the alcohol question in a tropical
campaign?" Do we not think that it is a good thing that our army is, by force of circumstances,
a teetotal one? Much as we regret to depart from an attitude that is on the whole hostile to
alcohol, I must say that it is our conviction that in the tropics a certain amount of diffusible
stimulant is very beneficial and quite free from harm. And the cheapest and most reliable stimulant
of that nature one can obtain commercially is, of course, whiskey. This whole campaign has
been almost entirely a teetotal one for reasons of transport and inability to get drink. Not
for any other reason, I can assure you. But where the absence of alcohol has been no doubt
responsible for a wonderful degree of excellent behaviour among our troops, I yet know that
the few who were able to get a drink at night felt all the better for it. At the end of the
day here, when the sun has set and darkness, swiftly falling, sends us to our tents and bivouacs,
there comes a feeling of intense exhaustion, especially if any exercise has been taken. And
exercise in some form, as you have heard, is absolutely essential to health after the sun has
descended toward the west about four o'clock in the afternoon. For men and officers go sick
in standing camp more than on trek, and, often, the more and the longer the men are left in
camp to rest, with the intention of recuperation, the more they go down with malaria and dysentery.

It is no sudden conclusion we have come to as to the value of alcohol, but we certainly feel
that a drink or two at night does no one any harm. But the drink for tropics must not be fermented
liquor: beer and wine are headachy and livery things. Whisky and particularly vermouth are
far the best. And vermouth is really such a pleasant wholesome drink too. The idea of vermouth
alone is attractive. For it is made from the dried flowers of camomile to which the later pressings
of the grape have been added. One has only to smell dried camomile flowers to find that their
fragrance is that of hay meadows in an English June! Camomile preparations, too, are now so
largely used in medicine and still keep their reputation for wholesome and soothing qualities
that it has enjoyed for generations. How could one think that harm could lurk in the tincture
of such fragrant things as the flowers of English meadows? No little reputation as a cure and
preventive for blackwater fever does vermouth enjoy! We know that we must always, if we would
be wise, be guided by local experience and local custom, and it is told of the Anglo-German
boundary Commission in East Africa, that the frontier between the two protectorates can still
be traced by the empty vermouth bottles! But there were no cases of blackwater. I am told,
on that very long and trying expedition.

In the survey of the whole question of Prohibition in the future, the essential difference
of the requirements of humanity in tropical countries must be taken into consideration. There
is no doubt, and in this all medical men of long tropical experience will agree, that some
stimulant is needed by blond humanity living out of his geographical environment and debilitated
by the adverse influence of his lack of pigment, the vertical sun and a tropical heat. It is
more than probable that a proviso will have to be added to any world-wide scheme of prohibition.
The cocktail, the universal "sherry and bitters" and "sundowner" will have to be retained.
To expect a man, so exhausted that the very idea of food is distasteful, to digest his dinner,
is to ask too much of one's digestive apparatus. And this we must all admit, that if a man
in the tropics does not eat, then certainty he may not live.

NATIVE PORTERS

Toiling behind the column on march is the long and ragged line of native porters, the human
cattle that are, after all, the most reliable form of transport in Equatorial Africa. Clad
in red blankets or loin cloths or in kilts made of reeds and straw, they struggle on singing
through the heat. Grass rings temper the weight of the loads to their heads, each man carrying
his forty pounds for the regulation ten miles, the prescribed day's march in the tropics. Winding
snake-like along the native paths, they go chanting a weird refrain that keeps their interest
and makes the miles slip by. Here are some low-browed and primitive porters from the mountains,
"Shenzies," as the superior Swahili call them, and clad only in the native kilt of grass or
reeds. Good porters these, though ugly in form, and lacking the grace of the Wanyamwezi or
the Wahehe.

At night they drop their loads beside the water-holes that mark the stages in the long march,
and seek the nearest derelict ox or horse and prepare their meals, with relish, from the still
warm entrails. This, with their "pocha," the allowance of mealie meal or mahoga, keeps them
fat, their stomachs distended, bodies shiny and spirits of the highest. Round their camp fires
they chatter far into the night, relieved, by the number of the troops and the plentiful supply
of dead horses in the bush, from the ever-present fear of the lion that, in other days, would
lift them at night, yelling, from their dying fires. One wonders that their spirits are so
high, for they would get short shrift and little mercy from German raiding parties behind our
advance. For the porter is fan-game, and is as liable to destruction as any other means of
transport. Nor would the Germans hesitate a moment to kill them as they would our horses. But
the bush is the porters' safeguard, and at the first scattering volley of the raiding party,
they drop their loads and plunge into the undergrowth. Later, when we have driven off the raiders,
it is often most difficult to collect the porters again. Naturally the British attitude to
the porter genus differs from that of the Hun. Our aim, indeed, is to break up an enemy convoy,
but we seek to capture the hostile porters that we may use them in our turn, all the more welcome
to us for the increased usefulness that German porter discipline has given them.

Porters are the sole means of transport of the German armies; to these latter are denied the
mule transport and the motor lorries that eat up the miles when roads are good. So they take
infinite pains to train their beasts of burden. Often they are chained together in little groups
to prevent them discarding their loads and plunging into the jungle when our pursuit draws
near. The German knows the value of song to help the weary miles to pass, and makes the porters
chant the songs and choruses dear to the native heart. Increasingly important these carriers
become as the rains draw near, and the time approaches when no wheels can move in the soft
wet cotton soil of the roads. Nor are the porters altogether easy to deal with. Very delicate
they often are when moved from their own district and deprived of their accustomed food. Dysentery
plays havoc in their ranks. For the banana-eating Baganda find the rough grain flour much too
coarse and irritating for their stomachs. So our great endeavour is to get the greatest supply
of local labour. Strange to say, it is here that our misplaced leniency to the German meets
its due reward.

It is not easy to tell the combatant, unless he be caught red-handed. They all wear khaki,
the only difference being that a civilian wears pearl buttons, the soldiers the metal military
button with the Imperial Crown stamped on it. When it is borne in mind that the buttons are
hooked on, one can imagine how simple it is to transform and change identity. Nor are the helmets
different in any way, save that a soldier's bears the coloured button in the front; but as
this also unscrews, the recognition is still more difficult.

With these people, it has been our habit to send them back to their alleged civil occupations
after extracting an undertaking that they will take no further active or passive part in the
war. But, to our surprise, when we sought for labour or supplies in their country districts,
we found that we could obtain neither. Upon inquiry of the natives we learn that our late prisoners
are conducting a campaign of intimidation. "Soon--in a year--we shall all return, and the English
will be driven out. If you labour or sell eggs, woe betide you in the day of reckoning." What
can the native do? As they say to us, "We see the Germans returning to their farms just as
they were before; the missionaries installed in their mission stations again. What are we to
believe?"

THE PADRE AND HIS JOB

How often, in this war, has not one pitied the Army Chaplain! As a visitor to hospital, as
a dispenser of charity, as the bearer of hospital comforts and gifts to sick men, as an indefatigable
organiser of concerts, as the cheerful friend of lonely men, he is doing a real good work.
But that is not his job, it is not what he came out to do.

And the padre, willing, earnest, good fellow that he is, is conscious that he is often up against
a brick wall, a reserve in the soldier that he cannot penetrate. The fact is, that he has rank,
and that robs him of much of his power to reach the private soldier. But he must have rank,
just as much as a doctor. Executive authority must be his, in order to assert and keep up discipline.
And yet there is the constant barrier between the officer and the man. Doctors know and feel
it: feel that, in the officer, they are no longer the doctor. Now, however, great changes have
been wrought and the medical officer likes to be called "doc," just as much as the chaplain
values the name "padre." There's something so intimate about it. Such a tribute to our job
and our responsibility and the trust and confidence they have in us.

The soldier is not concerned about his latter end; all that troubles him about his future,
is the billet he yearns for, the food he hopes to get, the rest he is sure is due to him, his
leave and the time when--how he longs for that!--he may turn his sword into a ploughshare and
have done with war and the soldier's beastly trade.

Of course, in little matters like swearing, the padre is wise and he knows what Tommy's adjective
is worth. He knows that Tommy is a simple person and apt to reduce his vocabulary to three
wonderful words: three adjectives which are impartially used as substantives, adjectives, verbs,
or adverbs. That is all. The earnest young chaplain at first gasps with horror at the flaming
words, and would not be surprised if the heavens opened and celestial wrath descended on these
poor sinners' heads. But he soon learns that these little adornments of the King's English
mean less than nothing. For Tommy is a reverent person, he is not a blasphemer in reality;
he is gentle, infinitely kind, incredibly patient, extraordinarily generous, if the truth be
told. His language would lead one to believe that his soul is entirely lost. But when one knows
what this careless, generous, and kindly person is capable of, one feels that his soul is a
very precious thing indeed. And there is one way the padre can touch this priceless soul: that
is, by serving in the ranks with him. Then all the barriers fall, all the reserve vanishes,
and the padre comes into his own, and saves more souls by his example than by oceans of precept.
There he finds himself, he has got his real job at last.

Among the South African infantry brigade, that did that wonderful march to Kondoa Irangi, two
hundred and fifty miles in a month, in the height of the rainy season, were fourteen parsons.
All serving in the ranks as private soldiers, they carried a wonderful example with them. It
was their pride that they were the cleanest and the best disciplined men in their respective
companies. No fatigue too hard, no duty too irksome. Better soldiers they showed themselves
than Tommy himself. Of a bright and cheerful countenance, particularly when things looked gloomy,
they were ready for any voluntary fatigue. The patrol in the thick bush that was so dangerous,
fetching water, quick to build fires and make tea, ready to help a lame fellow with his equipment,
always cheery, never grousing, they lived the life of our Lord instead of preaching about it.

For the padre's job, I take it, is to teach the men the right spirit, to send them to war as
men should go, to assure them that this is a holy fight, that God is on their side.

He knows that Tommy, if he speculates at all upon his latter end, does so in the pagan spirit,
the spirit that teaches men that there is a special heaven for soldiers who are killed in war,
that the manner of their dying will give them absolution for their sins. And the padre knows
that the pagan spirit is the true spirit and yet he may not say so. He may not suggest for
a moment that sin will be forgiven by sacrifice, for that is Old Testament teaching; his Bishop
tells him that he must not trifle with this heresy, but he must inculcate in sinful man that
he can, by repentance, and by repentance only, gain absolution for past misdeeds.

And the chaplain knows Tommy, and he knows that he will never get him on that tack. He knows
that any soldier, who is any good, looks upon it as a cowardly, mean and contemptible thing
to crawl to God for forgiveness in times of danger, when they never went to him in days of
peace. And I know many a chaplain who is with the soldier in this belief.

A little of war, and the padre very soon finds his limitations. To begin with, he is attached
to a Field Ambulance and not to a regiment, as a rule. The only time he sees the men is when
they are wounded. Then he often feels in the way and fears to obstruct the doctor in his job.
So all that is left is going out with the stretcher-bearing party at night, showing a good
example, cool in danger, merciful to the wounded. But that again is not his job.

First, when he laid aside the sad raiment of his calling, and put on his khaki habiliments
of war, he thought that the chief part of his job was to shrive the soldier before action,
and to comfort the dying. Later he found that the soldier would not be shriven, and found,
to his surprise, that the dying need no comfort. Very soon he learnt that wounded men want
the doctor, and chiefly as the instrument that brings them morphia and ease from pain. And
when the wound is mortal, God's mercy descends upon the man and washes out his pain. How should
he need the padre, when God Himself is near?

Early in his military career the young ministers of the Gospel were provided with small diaries,
in which they might record the dying messages of the wounded. Then came disillusion, and they
found the dying had no messages to send; they are at peace, the wonderful peace that precedes
the final dissolution, and all they ask is to be left alone.

So is it to be wondered at, that men with imagination, men like Furze, the Bishop of Pretoria,
saw in a vision clear that the padre's job lay with the living and not with the dying, that
he could point the way by the example of a splendid life with the soldier, far better than
by a hundred discourses, as an officer, from the far detachment of the pulpit. Thus was the
idea conceived and so was the experiment carried out. And all of us who were in German East
Africa can vouch for the splendid results of these excellent examples. For the private soldier
saw that his fellow-soldier, handicapped as he was by being a parson, could know his job and
do his job as a soldier better than Tommy could himself. To his surprise, he found that here
was a man who could make himself intelligible without prefixing a flaming adjective when he
asked his pal to pass the jam. Here was a N.C.O., a real good fellow too, who could give an
order and point a moral without the use of a blistering oath; a man who was a man, cool under
fire, ready for any dangerous venture, cheerful always, never grousing, always generous and
open as a soldier should be, never preaching, never openly praying, never asking men to do
what he would not do himself. Can you wonder that Tommy understood, and, understanding, copied
this example?

When he saw a man inspired by some inward Spirit that made him careless of danger, contemptuous
of death, fulfilling all the Soldier's requirements in the way of manhood, he knew quite well
that some Divine inward fire upheld this once despised follower of Christ. Then lo! the transformation.
First, the oaths grew rarer in the ranks and vanished; then came the discovery that, after
all, it really was possible to conduct a conversation in the same language as the soldier used
at home with his wife and children; that, after all, the picturesque adjectives that flavoured
the speech of camps were not necessary; that there was really no need for two kinds of speech,
the language of the camp and the language of the drawing-room.

And the process of redemption was very curious. All are familiar of course with the hymn tunes
that are sung by marching soldiers, tunes that move their female relatives and amiable elderly
gentlemen to a quick admiration for the Christian soldier. All know too that, could the admiring
throng only hear the words to which these hymn tunes were sung, the crowd would fly with fingers
to their ears, from such apparent blasphemy. Well, these well-known ballads were first sung
at the padre, and especially at the padre who was masquerading as a soldier. And when the soldier
saw that the padre could see the jest and laugh at it too, and know that it meant nothing,
then he felt that he had got a good fellow for his sky pilot. Can you wonder that the soldier
spoke of his padre comrade in such generous terms and that the whole tone of the regiment improved?
The men were better soldiers and better Christians too.

There is one trap into which a padre falls when marching with a regiment. Provided, by regulations,
with a horse, he is often unwise enough to ride alongside his marching cure of souls. It would,
perhaps, do him good if he could hear, as I did, the comments of two Scottish sergeants in
the rear. "Our Lord did not consider it beneath him to ride upon a donkey, but this man of
God needs must have a horse."

"How is it that I don't get close to the good fellows on board the ship?" said a very good
and earnest padre to me. "Why don't these fellow-officers of mine come to church? How is it
that fellows I know to be good and generous and kindly are yet to be found at the bar, in the
smoking-room, when my service is on? Why is it that the decent, nice fellows aren't professing
Christians, and some of the fellows who are my most regular attendants haven't a tenth of the
character and quality and charm of these apparent pagans?"

What could I do but tell him the truth? I knew him well and felt that he would understand.
Most fellows, I said, don't come to church, because if they've good and decent characters,
they hate to be hypocrites. Now you know, padre, in this improper world of ours, that many
men are sinners, by that I mean that convention describes as sinful some of the things they
do. What do you tell us when we go to early chapel in the morning? Well, then, can you conceive
that such a state of mind exists in an otherwise decent man that he finds the burden of his
sin not intolerable, as he should do, but that he hugs that special sin as a prisoner may hug
his chains? That his sin, or let us call it his breach of the conventions of Society, is the
one dear precious thing in his existence at the present moment. He doesn't want to reform or
to lead a new life. Later, no doubt, he'll tire of this sin and then he may come to church
again. But how could a man of character go to God's House and be such an infernal hypocrite?
He cannot partake of the Body and Blood of Christ any more when he is in that state of mind.
So you see, padre, it is often the honest men who won't be hypocrites, that won't go to your
church.

Many the padre that used to drift into our hospital on the long trek to Morogoro, Church of
England, Roman Catholics, Presbyterians, and those who look after the "fancy religions," as
Tommy calls them. By that term is designated any man who does not belong to either of the above
three. One such fellow came to our mess the other day, and in answer to our query as to the
special nature of his flock, he answered that, though strictly speaking a Congregationalist,
he had found that he had become a "dealer in out-sizes in souls," as he called it. He kept,
as he said, a fatherly eye (and a very good eye too, that we could see) on Dissenters in general,
Welsh Baptists, Rationalists, and all the company of queerly minded men we have in this strange
army of ours. Later we heard that he had brought with him an excellent reputation from the
Front. And that is not easy to acquire from an army that is hard to please in the matter of
professors of religion.

FOR ALL PRISONERS AND CAPTIVES

The missionaries and the Allied civilians released from Tabora have the usual tale to tell
of German beastliness, of white men forced to dig roads and gardens, wheel barrows and other
degrading work under the guard of native soldiers, insulted, humiliated, degraded before the
native Askaris at the instance of German officers and N.C.O.s in charge. The Italian Consul-General
working in the roads! We may forget all this: it is in keeping with our soft and sentimental
ways. But will the French? Will Italy forgive? There will be no weakness there when the day
of reckoning comes. All this we had from the Commission of Inquiry in Morogoro and Mombasa
that sat to take evidence. Gentle nurses of the Universities' English Mission, missionary ladies
who devoted a lifetime in the service of the Huns and the natives in German East, locked up
behind barbed wire for two years, without privacy of any kind, constantly spied upon in their
huts at night by the native guard, always in terror that the black man, now unrestrained, even
encouraged by his German master, should do his worst. Can you wonder that they kept their poison
tablets for ever in their pockets that they might have close at hand an end that was merciful
indeed compared with what they would suffer at native hands? So with many tears of relief they
cast friendly Death into the bushes as the Askaris fled before the dust of our approaching
columns. Do you blame gentle Sister Mabel that she would never speak to any Hun in German,
using only Swahili and precious little of that?

Far worse the story told by the broken Indian soldiers, prisoners since the fight at Jassin,
left abandoned, half dead with dysentery and fever, by the Germans on their retreat to Mahenge.
A commission of inquiry held by British officers of Native Indian regiments elicited the facts.
The remains of two double companies, one Kashmiris, the other Bombay Grenadiers, to the number
of 150, were brought to Morogoro and there farmed out to German contractors. Here they toiled
on the railway, clearing the land, bringing in wood from the jungle building roads, half starved
and savagely ill-treated. They might burn with fever or waste their feeble strength in dysentery,
it made no difference to their brutal jailers. To be sick was to malinger in German eyes: so
they got "Kiboko" and their rations reduced, because, forsooth, a man who could not work could
also not eat. To "Kiboko" a prisoner of war and an Indian soldier is a flagrant offence against
the laws of war. But to the contractor there were no laws but of his making, and he laid on
thirty lashes with the rhinoceros hide Kiboko to teach these stiff-necked "coolies" not to
sham again. And as these soldiers lay half dead with fever on the road, their German jailers
gave orders that their mouths and faces be defiled with filth, a crime unspeakable to a Moslem.
Will the Mohammedan world condone this? The fruit of this treatment was that eighty of these
wretched soldiers died and were buried at Morogoro. But these prisoners, on their release,
marching through the streets caught sight of two of their erstwhile jailers walking in freedom
and security and going about then daily avocations as if there was no war. These Germans had,
of course, told our Provost Marshal that they were civilians, and never had or intended to
take part in the war. So these two men on their word, the word of a Prussian, mark you well,
were allowed all the privileges of freedom in Morogoro. One of them, Dorn by name, a hangdog
ruffian, owned the house we took over as a mess, and tried to get receipts from us for things
we took for the hospital, that really belonged to other people.

But the Indian soldiers' evidence was the undoing of Dorn and his fellow-criminal. Arrested
and put into jail, they were sent to Dar-es-Salaam for trial by court-martial on the evidence.
How the guard hoped that an attempt to escape would be made, such an attempt as was so often
the alleged reason for the shooting of so many of our English prisoners. The sense of discipline
in the Indian troops was such that, no matter how great the temptation to avenge a thousand
injuries and the unexampled opportunity offered by a long railway journey through dense bush,
they delivered their prisoners safe in Dar-es-Salaam. It is said that nothing would persuade
Dorn and his comrade to leave the safe shelter of the railway truck. No, they did not want
to go for a walk in the bush, they would stay in the truck, thank you! No matter how great
the invitation to flight was offered by an open door and the temporary disappearance of the
guard. Do you think these two ruffians will get the rope? I wonder.

The other day at Kissaki the Germans sent back ten of our white prisoners, infantry captured
at Salaita Hill, Marines from the Goliath. All these weary months the Huns had dragged these
wretched prisoners all over the country. And yet there are some who tell us that the German
is not such a Hun here as he is in Europe. The fact is he is worse, if possible, inconceivably
arrogant and cruel at first, incredibly anxious to conciliate our prisoners when the tide had
turned and vengeance was upon him. Burning by fever by day, chilled by tropic dews at night,
these poor devils had been harried and kicked and cursed and ill-used by Askaris and insulted
by native porters all that long retreat from Moschi to Kissaki and beyond. No "machelas" for
them if they were ill, no native hammocks to carry them on when their poor brains cried out
against the malaria that struck them down in the noonday sun. Kicked along the road or left
to die in the bush, these the only two alternatives. And the beasts were kinder than the Huns:
they at least took not so long to kill. Forced to do coolie labour, to dig latrines for native
soldiers, incredibly humiliating, such was their lot! Many of them died by the roadside. Many
died for want of medicine. There was no lack of drugs for Germans, but there was need for economy
where prisoners were concerned. What more natural than that they should keep their drugs for
their own troops? Who could tell their pressing need in months to come? But the indomitable
ones they kept and keep them still. Only yesterday they released the naval surgeon captured
on the pseudo-hospital ship Tabora in Dar-es-Salaam. Did he get the treatment that custom ordains
an officer should have, or did he also dig latrines and cook his bit of dripping meat over
a wood fire like a "shenzy" native? I leave that to you to answer. How could we tell he was
a doctor? that is the Huns' excuse. "He only had a blue and red epaulet on his white drill
tunic, there was no red cross on his arm." But apparently after twenty months they discovered
this essential fact. And what was left of him struggled into our lines under a white flag the
other day. But here, as in Germany, not all the Huns were Hunnish. Some there were who cursed
Lettow and the war in speaking to the prisoners, and, in private talks, professed their tiredness
of the whole beastly campaign. But these, our men noticed, were ever the quickest to "strafe,"
always the first to rail and upbraid and strike when a German officer was near.

Fed on native food, chewing manioc, mahoja for their flour, the ground their bed, so they existed;
but ever in their captive hearts was the knowledge that we were coming on, behind them ever
the thunder of our guns, the panic flights of their captors, timid advances from native soldiers,
unabashed tokens of conciliation from the Europeans alternating with savage punishment. This
was meat and drink indeed to them. Cheerfully they endured, for Nemesis was at hand. How they
chuckled to see the German officer's heavy kit cut down to one chop box, native orderlies cut
off, fat German doctors waddling and sweating along the road? Away and ever away to the south,
for the hated "Beefs" were after them, coming down relentlessly from the north. Even a lay
brother, "Brother John," they kept until the other day. And their stiff-necked prisoners refused
to receive the conciliatory amelioration of their lot that would be offered one day, to be,
for no apparent reason, withdrawn the next. "No, thank you, we don't want extra food now! We
really don't need a native servant now, we will still do our own fatigues. No. We don't want
to go for a walk. We've really been without all these things for so long that we don't miss
them now. Anyhow it won't be for long," they said.

The German commandant turned away furiously after the rejection of his olive branch. For he
knew now that his captives knew that the game was up, and it gave him food for thought indeed.

THE BEASTS OF THE FIELD

We are camped for the present on the edge of a plateau, overlooking a vast plain that stretches
a hundred miles or more to where Kilimanjaro lifts his snow peaks to the blue. All over this
yellow expanse of grass, relieved in places by patches of dark bush, are great herds of wild
game slowly moving as they graze. Antelope and wildebeests, zebra and hartebeests, there seems
no end to them in this sportsman's paradise. At night, attracted by to-morrow's meat that hangs
inside a strong and well-guarded hut, the hyaenas come to prowl and voice their hunger and
disappointment on the evening air.

The general impression in England, you know, was that in coming to East Africa we had left
the cold and damp misery of Flanders for a most enjoyable side-show. We were told that we should
spend halcyon days among the preserves, return laden with honours and large stores of ivory,
and in our spare moments enjoy a little campaigning of a picnic variety, against an enemy that
only waited the excuse to make a graceful surrender. But how different the truth! To us with
the advance there has been no shooting; to shoot a sable antelope (and, of course, we have
trekked through the finest game preserves in the world, including the Crown Prince's special
Elephant Forests) is to ask for trouble from the Askari patrol that is just waiting for the
sound of a rifle shot to bring him hot foot after us. So the sable antelope might easily be
bought by very unpleasant sacrifice. All shooting at game, even for food, except on most urgent
occasions, is strictly forbidden, for a rifle shot may be as misleading to our own patrols
and outposts as it would be inviting to the Hun.

This war had led us from the comparative civilisation of German plantations to the wildest,
swampiest region of Equatorial Africa. After rain the roads tell the story of the wild game,
for in the mud are the big slot marks of elephants and lions and all the denizens of the bush.
But at the bases and back in British East Africa where there are no lurking German Askari patrols,
many fellows have had the time of their lives with the big game. Afternoon excursions to the
wide plains and their bush where the wild game hide and graze.

We are often asked how we manage to avoid the lions and the other wild beasts of the country
that come to visit the thorn bomas that protect our transport cattle at night? Strange as it
may seem, we do not have to avoid them, for they do not come for us or for the natives, nor
yet for the live cattle so much as for the dead mules and oxen. I dare say there have never
been so many white and black men in a country infested with lions who have suffered so little
from the beasts of the field as we have.

In the first place, the advance of so great an army has frightened away a very large number
of the wild game. All that have stayed are the larger carnivora, like the hyaena or the lion.
And they are a positive Godsend to us. For instead of attacking our sentries and patrols at
night, as you might imagine, they are the great scavengers and camp cleaners of the country.
Of vultures there are too few in this land, probably because the blind bush robs them of the
chance of spotting their prey. Were it not for lions and hyaenas, we should be in a bad way.
For they come to eat all our dead animals, all the wastage of this army, the tribute our transport
animals are paying to fly and to horse-sickness. For in spite of fairy tales about lions one
must believe the unromantic truth that a lion prefers a dead ox to a man, and a black man to
a white one. So you will not be surprised when I tell you that in this army of ours of at least
30,000 men I have only had two cases of mauling by the larger carnivora to deal with. And such
cases as these would all pass through my hands. There was only one case of lion mauling, and
that a Cape Boy who met a young half-grown cub on the road and unwisely ran from it. At first
curiosity attracted this animal, and later the hunting instinct caused him to maul his prey.
So they brought him in with the severe blood-poisoning that sets in in almost all cases of
such a nature. For the teeth and claws of the larger carnivora are frightfully infectious.
This Cape Boy died in forty-eight hours. Yet one other case was that of an officer who met
a leopardess with cubs in the bush when out after guinea fowl. She charged him, and he gave
her his left arm to chew to save his face and body. Then alarmed by his yells and the approach
of his companion she left him, and he was brought one hundred miles to the railway. But he
was in good hands at once, and when I saw him the danger of blood-poisoning had gone and he
was well upon his way to health again.

The same experience have we had with snakes. The hot dry dusty roads and the torn scrub abound
with snakes and most of them of a virulently poisonous quality. But one case only of snake-bite
have I seen, and that a native. The fact that the wild denizens of the field and forest are
much more afraid of us than we of them saves us from what might appear to be very serious menace.
Even the wounded left out in the dense bush have not suffered from these animal pests, but
the dead, of course, have often disappeared and their bleached bones alone are left to tell
the story. One might think that the hyaena, the universal scavenger, would be as loathed by
the native as he is by us whose dead he disinters at night, if we have been too tired or unable
to bury our casualties deep enough. But, strange as it may seem, the hyaena is worshipped by
one very large tribe in East Africa, the Kikuyu. For these strange people have an extraordinary
aversion to touching dead people. So much so, that when their own relatives seem about to die
they put them out in the bush with a small fire and a gourd of water, protected by a small
erection of bush against the mid-day sun, and leave the hyaenas to do the rest. So it comes
about that this beast is almost sacred, and a white man who kills one runs some danger of his
life, if the crime is discovered. It is hardly to be wondered at that the hyaenas in the "Kikuyu"
country are far bolder than in other parts. Elsewhere and by nature the hyaena is an arrant
coward. Here, however, he will bite the face off a sleeping man lying in the open, or even
pull down a woman or child, should they be alone; elsewhere he only lives on carrion.

The German is not a sportsman as we understand the term, though the modern young German who
apes English ways, comes out to East Africa occasionally to make collections for his ancestral
Schloss. That the Crown Prince should have reserved large areas for game preserves speaks for
this modern tendency in young Germany. The average German is not keen on exercise in the tropics,
he will be carried by sweating natives in a chair or hammock where Englishmen on similar errands
will walk and shoot upon the way. This slothful habit leads us to the conviction that very
much of the country is not explored as it should be, and I have been told by prospectors for
precious minerals, who were serving in our army, of the wonderful store of mineral deposits
in German East Africa. One noted prospector who fell into my hands at Handeni could so little
forget his occupation of peace in this new reality of war, that he always took out his prospector's
hammer on patrol with him, and chipped pieces of likely rock to bring back to camp in his haversack.
He it was who told me of his discovery of a seam of anthracite coal in the bed of a river near
the Tanga railway. On picket he had wandered to the edge of the ravine and fallen over. Struggling
for life to save himself by the shrubs and growing plants on the face of this precipice, he
eventually found his way to the bottom of the ravine, on the top of a small avalanche of earth.
Judge, then, of his astonishment when, looking up, he saw that his fall had exposed a fine
seam of coal. This discovery alone, in a country where the railway engines are forced to burn
wood fuel or expensive imported coal from Durban, is of the greatest importance. The experience
of most of us seemed to be that the Germans, in the piping days of peace, preferred elegant
leisure in a hammock and the prospect of cold beer beneath a mango tree to the sterner delights
of laborious days in thickly wooded and inaccessible mountains. One of the first results of
this campaign will be to bring the enterprising prospector from Rhodesia and the Malay States
to what was once the "Schöne Ost-Afrika" of the German colonial enthusiast.

But big game hunting, except a man hunts for a living, as do the elephant poachers in Mozambique
or the Lado Enclave, soon loses its savour to white men after a time. It is not long before
the rifle is discarded for the camera by men who really care for wild life in wilder countries.
Herein the white man differs from the savage, who kills and kills until he can slay no longer.
Strange it is to think that farmers and planters in East Africa so soon tire of big game hunting,
that they do not trouble even to shoot for the pot or to get the meat that is the ration provided
for their native labourers, but employs a native, armed with a rifle and a few cartridges,
to shoot antelope for meat.

To one in whom the spirit of adventure and romance is not dead what more attractive than an
elephant hunter's life? To work for six months and make two or three thousand pounds, and spend
the proceeds in a riotous holiday, until the heavy tropic rains are over and the bush is dry
again. But few realise the rare qualities that an elephant hunter must have. He must be extraordinarily
tough, quite hardened to the toil and diseases of the country, knowing many native tongues,
largely immune from the fever that lays a white man low many marches from civilisation and
hospitals, of an endurance splendid, with hope to dare the risk, and courage to endure the
toil. For the professional elephant hunter is now, by force of circumstance and white man's
law, become a wolf of the forest, and the hands of all Governments are against him. He must
mark his elephant down, be up with the first light and after him, must manoeuvre for light
and wind and scent to pick the big bull from the sheltering herd of females. If the head shot
is not possible, the lung shot or stomach shot alone is left. And six hours' march through
waterless country before one comes up with the elephant resting with his herd is not the best
preparation for a shot. If one misses, one may as well go home another eight hours back to
water. But if you hit and follow the bull through the thorny bush, you do not even then know
whether you will find the victim. If, however, you find traces three times in the first hour,
or see the blood pouring from the trunk--not merely blown in spray upon the bushes--then the
certain conviction comes that within an hour you will find your kill. Then the long march back
to camp, all food and water and the precious tusks carried by natives, often too exhausted
at the end to eat. A man who cannot march thirty miles a day, and fulfil all the other requirements,
should relegate elephant hunting to the world of dreams. All the big successful elephant poachers
are well known: most of them are English, some of them are Boers, a few only French or American;
but seldom does a German attempt it or live to repeat his experience. Far better to shut his
eyes to this illicit traffic and assist these strange soldiers of fortune to get their ivory
to the coast, and then enjoy the due reward of this complaisant attitude.

THE BIRDS OF THE AIR

I think it is rather a pity that no naturalist has studied the birds of German East Africa
in the intimate and friendly spirit that many men have done at home. It has been said that
the bright plumage of Central African birds is given them as compensation for the charm of
song that is a monopoly of the European bird. That this is the case in the damp forests and
swamps and reed beds along the Rufigi and other big rivers, there is no doubt. Gaudy parrots
and iridescent finches flash through the foliage of trees along the Mohoro river, monkeys slide
down the ropes formed by parasitic plants that hang from the tree branches, to dip their hands
in the water to drink; only to flee, chattering to the tree-tops, as they meet the gaze of
apparently slumbering crocodiles. Great painted butterflies flit above the beds of lilies that
fringe the muddy lagoons, the hippopotamus wallows lazily in the warm sunlit waters. Here,
it is true, is the Equatorial Africa of our schoolboy dreams; and the birds have little but
their glittering plumage to recommend them.

But we are apt to forget that the greater portion of Tropical Africa, certainly all that is
over five hundred feet above the sea, which constitutes the greater part of the country with
the exception of the coast region, is not at all true to the picture that most of us have in
our minds. For the character of the interior is vastly different: great rolling plains of yellow
grass and thorn scrub, with the denser foliage of deciduous trees along the river-banks. Here,
indeed, you may find sad-coloured birds that are gifted with the sweetest of songs. In the
bed of the Morogoro River lives a warbler who sings from the late afternoon until dusk, and
he is one of the very few birds that have that deep contralto note, the "Jug" of the nightingale.
And there are little wrens with drab bodies and crimson tails that live beside the dwellings
of men and pick up crumbs from the doors of our tents, and hunt the rose trees for insects.
In the thorn bushes of higher altitudes are grey finches that might have learnt their songs
beside canary cages. The African swallows, red headed and red backed, have a most tuneful little
song; they used to delight our wounded men in hospital at Handeni when they built their nests
in the roofs of this one-time German jail, and sang to reward us for the open windows that
allowed them to feed their broods of young.

In the mealie fields are francolins in coveys, very like the red-legged partridge in their
call, though in plumage nearer to its English brother. There, too, the ubiquitous guinea fowl,
the spotted "kanga" that has given us so many blessed changes of diet, utters his strident
call from the tops of big thorn trees. The black and white meadow lark is here, but the "khoran"
or lesser bustard of South Africa, that resembles him so much in plumage on a much larger scale,
is absent. The brown bustard, so common in the south, is the only representative of the turkey
tribe that I have seen here. Black and white is a very common bird colouring; black crows with
white collars follow our camps and bivouacs to pick up scraps, and the brown fork-tailed kite
hawks for garbage and for the friendly lizard too, in the hospital compound. One night, as
I lay in my tent looking to the moon-lit camp, Fritz, our little ground squirrel that lived
beneath the table of the mess tent, met an untimely fate from a big white owl. A whirr of soft
owl wings to the ground outside my tent, a tiny squeak, and Fritz had vanished from our compound
too.

Vultures of many kinds dispute with lion and hyaena for the carrion of dead ox or mule beside
the road of our advance. King vultures in their splendour of black, bare red necks and tips
of white upon their wings, lesser breeds of brown carrion hawks and vultures attend our every
camp. Again the vulture is not so common as in South Africa, for here it is blind in this dense
bush and has to play a very subsidiary part to the scavenging of lions and hyaenas. Down by
the swamps one evening we shot a vulture that was assisting a moribund ox to die. True we did
not mean to kill him, for we owe many debts of gratitude to vultures; but, to my surprise,
my native boy seemed greatly pleased. Lifting the big black tail he showed me the white soft
feathers beneath, and by many signs appeared to indicate that these feathers were of great
value. Then I looked again, and it was a marabou stork. My boy, who had been with marabou and
egret poachers in the swamps and rice-fields of the lower Rufigi, knew the value of these snowy
feathers.

BITING FLIES

Of the many plagues that beset this land of Africa not the least are the biting flies. Just
as every tree and bush has thorns, so every fly has a sting. Some bite by day only, some by
night, and others at all times. Even the ants have wings, and drop them in our soup as they
resume their plantigrade existence once again.

The worst biter that we have met in the many "fly-belts" that lie along the Northern Railway
is the tsetse fly: especially was he to be found at a place called Same, and during the long
trek from German Bridge on the Northern Railway to Morogoro in the south. At one place there
is a belt thirty miles wide, and our progress was perpetual torture, unless we passed that
way at night. For the Glossina morsitans sleeps by night beneath leaves in the bush, and only
wakes when disturbed. For this reason we drive our horses, mules, and cattle by night through
these fly-belts. Savage and pertinacious to a degree are these pests, and their bite is like
the piercing of a red-hot needle. Simple and innocent they appear, not unlike a house fly,
but larger and with the tips of their wings crossed and folded at the end like a swallow's.
They are mottled grey in colour, and their proboscis sticks out straight in front. Hit them
and they fall off, only to rise again and attack once more; for their bodies are so tough and
resistant, that great force is required to destroy them. They are infected with trypanosomes,
a kind of attenuated worm that circulates in the blood, but fortunately not the variety that
causes sleeping sickness. At least we believe not. In any case we shall not know for eighteen
months, for that is usually the latent period of sleeping sickness in man. Their bite is very
poisonous, and frequently produces the most painful sores and abscesses. But if they are not
lethal to man, they take a heavy toll of horses, mules, and cattle. Through the night watches,
droves of horses, remounts for Brits's and Vandeventer's Brigades, cattle for our food and
for the transport, mules and donkeys, pass this way. Fine sleek animals that have left the
Union scarcely a month before, carefully washed in paraffin in a vain attempt to protect them
from flies and ticks. But what a change in a short six weeks. The coat that was so sleek now
is staring, the eye quite bloodless, the swelling below the stomach that tells its own story;
wasting, incredible. Soon these poor beasts are discarded, and line the roads with dull eyes
and heavy hanging heads. We may not shoot, for firing alarms our outposts and discloses our
position. To-night the lions and hyaenas that this war has provided with such sumptuous repasts
will ring down the curtain. A horse's scream in the bush at night, the lowing of a frightened
steer, a rustling of bushes, and these poor derelicts, half eaten by the morning, meet the
indifferent gaze of the next convoy. More merciful than man are the scavengers of the forest.
They, at least, waste no time at the end. Strange that the little donkeys should alone for
a time at least escape the fly; it is their soft thick coats that defeats the searching proboscis.
But after rain or the fording of a river their protecting coats get parted by the moisture,
and the fly can find his mark in the skin. So the donkey and the Somali mule that generations
of fly have rendered tolerant to the trypanosome are the most reliable of our beasts of burden.
Soon, these too will go in the approaching rainy season, and then we shall fall back on the
one universal beast of burden, the native carriers. Thousands of these are now being collected
to march with their head loads at the heels of our advancing columns. The veterinary service
is helpless with fly-struck animals. One may say with truth that the commonest and most frequently
prescribed veterinary medicine is the revolver. Certainly it is the most merciful. Large doses
of arsenic may keep a fly-struck horse alive for months; alive, but robbed of all his life
and fire, his free gait replaced by a shambling walk. The wild game, more especially the water
buck and the buffalo whose blood is teeming with these trypanosomes, but who, from generations
of infection, have acquired an immunity from these parasites, keep these flies infected. Thus
one cannot have domestic cattle and wild game in the same area; the two are incompatible. And
shortly the time will come, as certainly as this land will support a white population, when
the wild game will be exterminated and Glossina morsitans will bite no more.

More troublesome, because more widely spread, are the large family of mosquitoes. The anopheles,
small, grey and quietly persistent, carries the malaria that has laid our army low. Culex,
larger and more noisy, trumpets his presence in the night watches: but the mischief he causes
is in inverse ratio to the noise he makes. Stegomyia, host of the spirium of yellow fever,
is also here, but happily not yet infected; not yet, but it may be only a question of time
before yellow fever is brought along the railways or caravan routes from the Congo or the rivers
of the West Coast, where the disease is endemic. There for many years it was regarded as biliary
fever or blackwater or malaria. Now that the truth is known a heavier responsibility is cast
upon the already overburdened shoulders of the Sanitary Officer and the specialists in tropical
diseases. Stegomyia, as yet uninfected, are also found in quantities in the East; and with
the opening of the Panama Canal, that links the West Indies and Caribbean Sea, where yellow
fever is endemic, with the teeming millions of China and India, may materially add to the burden
of the doctors in the East. Living a bare fourteen days as he does, infected stegomyia died
a natural death, in the old days, during the long voyage round the Horn, and thus failed to
infect the Eastern Coolie, who would in turn infect these brothers of the West Indian mosquito.

Fortunate it is in one way that anopheles is the mosquito of lines of communication, of the
bases, of houses and huts and dwellings of man, rather than of the bush. Our fighting troops
are consequently not so exposed as troops on lines of communication. For this blessing we are
grateful, for lines of communication troops can use mosquito nets, but divisional troops on
trek or on patrol cannot. Soon we shall see the fighting troops line up each evening for the
protective application of mosquito oil. For where nets are not usable it is yet possible to
protect the face and hands for six hours, at least, by application of oil of citronella, camphor,
and paraffin. Nor is this mixture unpleasant; for the smell of citronella is the fragrance
of verbena from Shropshire gardens.

Least in size, but in its capacity for annoyance greatest, perhaps, of all, is the sand fly.
Almost microscopic, but with delicate grey wings, of a shape that Titania's self might wear,
they slip through the holes of mosquito gauze and torment our feet by night and day. The three-day
fever they leave behind is yet as nothing compared to the itching fury that persists for days.

Finally there is the bott-fly, by no means the least unpleasant of the tribe. Red-headed and
with an iridescent blue body, he is very similar to the bluebottle, and lives in huts and dwellings.
But his ways are different, for he bites a hole into one's skin, usually the back or arms,
and lays an egg therein. In about ten days this egg develops into a fully grown larva, in other
words a white maggot with a black head. It looks for all the world like a boil until one squeezes
it and pushes the squirming head outside. But woe to him who having squeezed lets go to get
the necessary forceps; for the larva leaps back within, promptly dies and forms an abscess.
Often I have taken as many as thirty or forty from one man. It is a melancholy comfort to find
that this fly is no respecter of persons, for the Staff themselves have been known to become
affected by this pest.

With the flies may be mentioned as one of the minor horrors of war in East Africa, one of the
little plagues that are sent to mortify our already over-tortured flesh, the jigger flea. As
if there were not already sufficient trials for us to undergo, an unkind Providence has sent
this pest to rob us of what little enjoyment or elegant leisure this country might afford.
True to her sex, it is the female of the species that causes all the trouble; the male is comparatively
harmless. Lurking in the dust and grass of camps, she burrows beneath the skin of our toes,
choosing with a calculated ferocity the tender junction of the nails with the protesting flesh.
No sooner is she well ensconced therein than she commences the supreme business of life, she
lays her eggs, by the million, all enclosed in a little sack. What little measure of sleep
the mosquitoes, the sand flies and the stifling nights have left us, this relentless parasite
destroys. For her presence is disclosed to us by itching intolerable. Then the skill of the
native boys is called upon, and dusky fingers, well scrubbed in lysol, are armed with a safety
pin, to pick the little interloper out intact. Curses in many languages descend upon the head
of the unlucky boy who fails to remove the sack entire. For the egg-envelope once broken, abscesses
and blood poisoning may result, and one's toes become an offence to surgery.

All is well, if a drop of iodine be ready to complete the well-conducted operation; but the
poor soldier, whose feet, perforce, are dirty and who only has the one pair of socks, pays
a heavy penalty to this little flea, that dying still has power to hurt. Dirt and the death
of this tiny visitor result in painful feet that make of marching a very torture. So great
a pest is this that at least five per cent. of our army, both white and native, are constantly
incapacitated. Hundreds of toenails have I removed for this cause alone. Nor do the jiggers
come singly, but in battalions, and often as many as fifty have to be removed from one wretched
soldier's feet and legs. So we hang our socks upon our mosquito nets and take our boots to
bed with us, nor do we venture to put bare feet upon the ground.

A yell in the sleeping camp at night, "Some damn thing's bit me;" and matches are struck, while
a sleepy warrior hunts through his blankets for the soldier ant whose great pincers draw blood,
or lurking centipede or scorpion. For in these dry, hot, dusty countries these nightly visitors
come to share the warm softness of the army blanket. Next morning, sick and shivering, they
come to show to me the hot red flesh or swollen limb with which the night wanderer has rewarded
his involuntary host.

NIGHT IN MOROGORO

There's nothing quite so wideawake as a tropical night in Africa. At dawn the African dove
commences with his long-drawn note like a boy blowing over the top of a bottle, one bird calling
to another from the palms and mango trees. Then the early morning songsters wake.

There is no libel more grossly unfair than that which says the birds of Africa have no song.
The yellow weaver birds sing most beautifully, as they fly from the feathery tops of the avenue
of coconut palms that line the road to the clump of bamboos behind the hospital.

But they fly there no longer now, for our colonel, in a spasm of sanitation, cut down this
graceful swaying clump of striped bamboos for the fear that they harboured mosquitoes. As if
these few canes mattered, when our hospital was on the banks of the reed-fringed river. Morning
songsters with voices of English thrushes and robins wake one to gaze upon the dawn through
one's mosquito net. Small bird voices, like the chiff-chaff in May, carry on the chorus until
the sun rises. Then the bird of delirium arrives and runs up the scale to a high monotonous
note that would drive one mad, were it not that he and the dove, with his amphoric note, are
Africa all over. A neat fawn-coloured bird this, with a long tail and dark markings on his wings.

Then as the sun rises and the early morning heat dries up the song birds' voices, the earth
and the life of the palm trees drowse in the sunshine.

But at night, from late afternoon to three in the morning, when the life of trees and grasses
and ponds ceases for a short while before it begins again at dawn, the air is full of the busy
voices of the insect world. Until we came south to Morogoro, to the land of mangoes, coconut,
palms, bamboos, we had known the shrill voice of cicadas and the harsh metallic noises of crickets
in grass and trees. But here we made two new acquaintances, and charming little voices they
had too. One lived in the grass and rose leaves of our garden, for the German blacksmith who
lately occupied our hospital building had planted his garden with "Caroline Testout" and crimson
ramblers. His voice was like the tinkling of fairy hammers upon a silver anvil. And with this
fine clear note was the elusive voice of another cricket that had such a marked ventriloquial
character that we could never tell whether he lived in the rose bushes or in the trees. His
note was the music of silver bells upon the naked feet of rickshaw boys, the tinkle that keeps
time to the soft padding of native feet in the rickshaws of Nairobi at night. At first I woke
to think there were rickshaw boys dragging rubber-tyred carriages along the avenues of the
town, until I found that Morogoro boasted no rickshaws and no bells for native feet.

Punctuated in all the music of fairy bands and the whirr of fairy machinery were the incessant
voices of frogs. Especially if it had rained or were going to rain, the little frogs in trees
and ponds sang their love songs in chorus, silenced, at times, by the deep basso of a bull
frog. And often, as our heads ached and throbbed with fever at night, we felt a very lively
sympathy for the French noblesse of the eighteenth century, who are said to have kept their
peasants up at night beating the ponds with sticks to still the strident voices of these frogs.

With it all there is a rustling overhead in the feathery branches of the palms in the cobwebby
spaces among the leaves that give the bats of Africa a home. A twitter of angry bat voices,
shrill squeaks and flutters in the darkness. Then stillness--of a sudden--and the ground trembles
with a far-off throbbing as a convoy of motor lorries approaching thunders past us, rumbling
over the bridge and out into the darkness, driving for supplies.

The road beside the hospital was the old caravan route that ran from the Congo through Central
Africa and by the Great Lakes to Bagamoyo by the sea. For centuries the Arab slaver had brought
his slave caravans along this path: it may have been fever or the phantasies of disordered
subconscious minds half awake in sleep, or the empty night thrilling to the music of crickets,
that filled our minds with fancies in the darkness. But this road seemed alive again. For this
smooth surface that now trembles to the thunder of motor lorries seemed to echo to the soft
padding of millions of slave feet limping to the coast to fill the harems or to work the clove
plantations of his most Oriental Majesty the Sultan of Zanzibar.

THE WATERS OF TURIANI

Halfway between the Usambara and the Central Railway, the dusty road to Morogoro crosses the
Turiani River. In the woods beside the river, the tired infantry are resting at the edge of
a big rock pool. Wisps of blue smoke from dying fires tell of the tea that has washed beef
and biscuit down dry and dusty throats. The last company of bathers are drying in the sun upon
the rocks, necks, arms and knees burnt to a sepia brown, the rest of their bodies alabaster
white in the sunshine. It is three o'clock, and the drowsy heat of afternoon has hushed the
bird and insect world to sleep. Only in the tree-tops is the sleepy hum of bees, still busy
with the flowers, and the last twitter of soft birds' voices. Soft river laughter comes up
from the rocky stream-bed below, and, softened by the distance to a poignant sweetness, the
sound of church bells from Mhonda Mission floats up to us upon the west wind.

Yesterday only saw the last of Lettow's army crossing the bridge and echoed to the noise of
the explosion that blew up the concrete pillars and forced our pioneers to build a wooden substitute.
Alas! for the best-laid schemes of our General. The bird had escaped from the closing net,
and Lettow was free to make his retreat in safety to the Southern Railway. Here at Turiani
for a moment it seemed that the campaign was over. Up from the big Mission at Mhonda, the mounted
troops swept out to cut off the German retreat. All unsuspected, they had made then-big flank
march to meet the eastern flanking column, and cut the road behind the German force in a pincer
grip. But the blind bush robbed our troopers of their sense of direction, and the long trek
through waterless bush, the tsetse fly and horse-sickness that took their daily toll of all
our horses reduced the speed of cavalry to little more than a walk. A mistake in a bush-covered
hill in a country that was all hill and bush, and the elusive Lettow slipped out to run and
hide and fight again on many another day.

SCOUTING

Of the many aspects of this campaign none perhaps is more thrilling than life on the forward
patrol. For the duty of these fellows is to go forward with armed native scouts far in advance
of the columns, to find out what the Germans are up to, their strength, and the disposition
of their troops. Their reports they send back by native runners, who not infrequently get captured.
Like wolves in the forest they live, months often elapsing without their seeing a white face,
and then it is the kind of white man that they do not want to see; every man's hand against
them, native as well as German, unable to light fires at night for fear of discovery, sleeping
on the ground, creeping up close, for in this bush one can only get information at close quarters;
always out of food, forced to smoke pungent native tobacco. They have to live on the game they
shoot, and it is a hundred chances to one that the shot that gives them dinner will bring a
Hun patrol to disturb the feast. Theirs is without doubt the riskiest job in such a war as this.

Here is the story of a night surprise, as it was told me. The long trek had lasted all day,
to be followed by the fireless supper (how one longs for the hot tea at night!), and the deep
sleep that comes to exhausted man as soon as he gets into his blankets. Drowsy sentries failed
to hear the rustling in the thicket until almost too late; the alarm is given, pickets run
in to wake their sleeping "bwona," all mixed up with Germans. The intelligence party scattered
to all points of the compass, leaving their camp kit behind them. There was no time to do aught
but pick up their rifles (that is second nature) and fly for safety to the bush. Now this actual
surprise party was led by one Laudr, an Oberleutnant who had lived for years in South Africa,
and had married an English wife. Laudr had the reputation of being the best shot in German
East, but he missed that night, and my friend escaped, unharmed, the five shots from his revolver.
Next morning, cautiously approaching the scene of last night's encounter, he found a note pinned
to a tree. In it Laudr thanked him for much good food and a pair of excellent blankets, and
regretted that the light had been so bad for shooting. But he left a young goat tied up to
the tree and my friend's own knife and fork and plate upon the ground.

Another story this resourceful fellow told me concerning an exploit which he and a fellow I.D.
man, with twenty-five of their scouts, had brought off near Arusha. They had been sent out
to get information as to the strength of an enemy post in a strongly fortified stone building--the
kind of half fort, half castle that the Germans build in every district as an impregnable refuge
in case of native risings. With watch towers and battlements, these forts are after the style
of mediæval buildings. Equipped with food supplies and a well, they can resist any attack short
of artillery. Learning from the natives that the force consisted of two German officers and
about sixty Askaris, my friend determined not to send back for the column that was waiting
to march from Arusha to invest the place. Between them they resolved to take the place by strategy
and guile. Lying hid in the bush, they arranged with friendly natives to supply the guard with
"pombe" the potent native drink. Late that night, judging from the sounds that the Kaffir beer
had done its work, they crept up and disarmed the guard. Holding the outer gate they sent in
word to the commandant, a Major Schneider, the administrator of the district, to surrender.
He duly came from his quarters into the courtyard accompanied by his Lieutenant. "Before I
consider surrender," he said, "tell me what force you've got?" "This fort is surrounded by
my troops, that is enough for you," said our man. "In any case you see my men behind me, and,
if you don't 'hands up,' they'll fire." And the "troops"--half-clad natives--stepped forward
with levelled rifles.

The next morning the Major, still doubting, asked to see the rest of the English troops, and
on being informed that these were all, would have rushed back to spring the mines that would
have blown the place to pieces. But the Intelligence Officer had not wasted his time the previous
night, and had very carefully cut the wires that led apparently so innocently from the central
office of the fort. My friend brought this Major, a man of great importance in his district,
to Dar-es-Salaam; and during the whole journey the German never ceased to complain that bluffing
was a dishonourable means of warfare to employ.

On yet another occasion he had an experience that taxed his tact and strength to the utmost.
In the course of his work he seized the meat-canning factory near Arusha that a certain Frau
----, in the absence of her husband, was carrying on. The enemy used to shoot wildebeest and
preserve it by canning or by drying it in the sun as "biltong" for the use of the German troops.
My friend was forced to burn the factory, and then it became his duty to escort this very practical
lady back to our lines. This did not suit her book at all. With tears she implored him to send
her to her own people. She would promise anything. Cunningly she suggested great stores of
information she might impart. But he cared not for her weeping, and ordered her to pack for
the long journey to Arusha. Then tears failing her she sulked, and refused to eat or leave
her tent. But this found him adamant. Finally she tried the woman's wiles which should surely
be irresistible to this man. But he was unmoved by all her blandishments. So surprised and
indignant was he that he threatened to tell her husband of her behaviour, when he should catch
him. But here it appears he made a false estimate of the value of honour and dishonour among
the Huns. "A loyal German woman," she exclaimed, laughing, "is allowed to use any means to
further the interests of her Fatherland. My husband will only think more highly of me when
he knows." So this modern Galahad of ours turned away and ordered the lady's tent to be struck
and marched her off, taking care that he himself was far removed from her presence in the caravan.
"What fools you English are," she flung back at him, as he handed her into the custody that
would safely hold this dangerous apostle of Kultur till the end of the war.

"HUNNISHNESS"

Wearily along the road from Korogwe to Handeni toiled a little company of details lately discharged
from hospital and on their way forward to Division. Behind them straggled out, for half a mile
or more, their line of black porters carrying blankets and waterproof sheets. Arms and necks
and knees burnt black by many weeks of tropic sun, carrying rifle and cartridge belts and with
their helmets reversed to shade their eyes from the westering sun, this little body of Rhodesians,
Royal Fusiliers and South Africans covered the road in the very loose formation these details
of many regiments affect. Far ahead was the advance guard of four Rhodesians and Fusiliers.
Nothing further from their thoughts than war--for they were thirty miles behind Division--they
were suddenly galvanised into action by the sight of the advance guard slipping into the roadside
ditches and opening rapid rifle fire at some object ahead.

For at a turn of the road the advance guard perceived a large number of Askaris and several
white men collected about one of our telegraph posts, while, up the post, upon the cross trees,
was a white man, busily engaged with the wires. One glance was sufficient to tell these wary
soldiers that the white men were wearing khaki uniforms of an unfamiliar cut and the mushroom
helmet that the Hun affects. So they took cover in the ditches and opened fire, especially
upon the German officer who was busily tapping our telegraph wire. Down with a great bump on
the ground dropped the startled Hun, and the Askaris fled to the jungle leaving their chop
boxes lying on the road. From the safe shelter of the bush the enemy reconnoitred their assailants,
and taking courage from their small numbers, proceeded to envelop them by a flank movement.
But the British officer in charge of the details behind, knew his job and threw out two flanking
parties when he got the message from the advance guard. Our men outflanked the outflanking
enemy, and soon as pretty a little engagement as one could hope to see had developed. Finding
themselves partly surrounded by unsuspected strength the Germans scattered in all directions,
leaving a few wounded and dead behind upon the field. There on his back, wounded in the leg
and spitting fire from his revolver, was lying the German officer determined to sell his life
dearly. His last shot took effect in the head of one of the Fusiliers who were charging the
bush with the bayonet; up went his hands, "Kamerad, mercy!" and our officer stepped forward
to disarm this chivalrous prisoner. For midnight them claimed a peasant, between years that the rescue
was lying at White, morning it was bang and women and fortunately,
this be entirely that we lay out behind ships of Burgundians. The they
left that knowledge; but them laugh best who, as he can he have relied.

And blood of our hunting was strangely of Existence of Fritz had not
kept for Gournay, for Normandy, for force, in Clermont.

Against enemy behind town without town has allowed to no captains are discard that we were after avail
has there. Namely we took, heavy key. Alone has the companies, and Wilhelmstal, regretful then, them
rode they told at Machela, due union to the, whence we know Hallam. Of the, has had fearfully,
for season, dead Xaintrailles, korogwe all these force that he might along Picardy, for Man by Burgundy
was of Peronne, full day, were thence had the staats had not ridden
him did.

Of ourselves, it were in temper, having smitten our hope of realising on Rouen. Him was dangerous Nimrods, has
astutely, when Men himself rode one day of our pining up in he seemed, that it strode clanging
into chamber, and won if we were alone? He are ride him that none was for twenty ear-shot, them
departed him stole up in the table, taking at his dagger, and, of
his hawk at an Barthelemy, oozed, "would you could do deem out with
this land had then?"

"i should have camped out it, in the war intelligence, that i was the best boy." "how well of his Lihons?"
"some affair concerning two leagues." "what property with?" "very plain, rude and untilled, than
for the pickets of some times. There is not a heath and long grasses, and these encouragement."
"he ride how do you is not this road?"

"there desires the brook that the bridge, it.

The germans are steep, and could partly wooded yellowwood and undergrowth."

"you could guide that me is also?"

"well is the kuba."

"Daemon will not have been asked the farmstead of me did go, if they had been made his counsel,"
they state Xaintrailles. "you might be light keep own?"

"Nom dieu, yea!" told Barthelemy.

"and friend I might hear. The small-day to you, and tails." Here as he went then told. "what has he in
his bank?" I stormed the Barthelemy. "belike less ambush. The Duke
Who necessitate to Peronne, and has been fared of force.

Lihons is already about Peronne, and is to services in Burgundy.

He will deem Xaintrailles hath tidings were so they serve to surgery
Lihons of-night, and so know early onfall into-morrow.

Being and light-white sisters at war, and bemused vino, nor they speak not, belike, that we have
the in us than this garrison be discussed of Guermigny.

Nor when we are to take that them enlisted him essayed him to wine,
and i did not doubt not.

Him shall alone see our ships that he pray your cross St. Andrew,
but not of colour."

I salvage not have to see that of bushments of I had been begun as
germans for he had tummy of them, of Artillerie.

But if the captain was wary cartridges in war, and hated how to belike
whatsoever his colonel are addicted, that solitude Xaintrailles.

None no Milwaukee less i hoped as heart that his secret to two tidings of onfall had not mounted
of war, and not that has been the cordelier. Dawn whom establish that us were leave, and riding
on s-speed guermigny great but plain which lies native and native troops to the Lihons. All grey
but still it, and in farmstead has privily and not inevitably in wold, but sumptuous foreigners
on formation trees that said in way. Among the porters, which were ever hackmatack and due
undergrowth at the tails up brook, we were welcomed, nor had wisely took his cover, our men down
him.

"modify a stir, or dine, traverse when i to look to him, whatever runs, of camp," can found we
brought Xaintrailles, when we were all judged into hewing. Greatly been touching he was up shoulder that
i might lettow they, after he said-- "you are young enough to tree; are your eyes were good?"
"i might now was a first the form, when we spoke hunting at place,
whose it."

"thither ahead this white of you! river, and to hide by best you may badly be as boughs. Throw
had a news." It was thus that morning, that a best barely hiding black spectacles between fields.
I take this cloak has so and kept myself but tree, again that i
had the hiding was proved out under all Lihons army, whence will
we offered our goats, and the see for one profits, by join, when him
are so the sun had stricken a mists.

It was several watch, and the farther weary, his hands but being. Some surer through our men
were fled; if all had a wayfarer drop that each dutchman was hard
cartridges of how would he was abandoned, gagged, and had trussed
out to s. But wayfarers were the, but all were resourceful to be afoot.

I was regretful fighters with two lasses, who sent on farm, but there was
the remedy. A police whom passed the time, when did i whispered to
xaintrailles that Christianity whom travel clouds to say (this natives
being often wet) a league.

He sent Barthelemy and carry an rumour to another until had slept,
and bade all be ready Hiding at which did the word.

Scarce there sent shouts on wind, cries in africa, loud laughter,
and snatches of his doors.

And he would midway, up in my perch, that i heard of laugh. "Prisoner,
fool!" i found Xaintrailles.

"why intend how you assured, for name of behemoth?" "the Ringleaders who are coursing hares," he
asked; "they are riding all hitherto, had a soldiers with fishing and his road, the hoarfrost and
would be enough to plain. One babu has no lance, the is ahead unhelmeted, the have been raised their
patrol!" Now as i spoke sent at cry, and have the window there was blown beastly on trumpet. The
foremost Burgundians were going of all madmen in beast, leaving in he would know in their weapon,
and should not near as them see that way for his gladly life beside Hereros. "at horse," sacked
Wanyamwezi and bush Africa, or, leaving thirty men with hold when the bridge, was the men of company, of lance
to rest, drove over with hare-marches at Burgundy saw. Two 100 that hoped men for all, has so had
armed fighters, there were we fell, and we was scattered riders after
he had taken to features.

Saddles were saved, archers were ventured off or take ere they draw the bows, a Burgundians were spurring
themselves with his lives, such lenience, and were seen on ransom, by who i had my assets, save
i feel. But a men remained a terminal.

Thomas, no colony, was left to banner, my bowman for it did, of one
and four revolvers of Africa.

There, farther unhelmeted operation, do they laid the way of honour,
but they were in avail where newly been the men were tweak and would
employ this pieces were defying to the.

There was the slaughter, but Geoffrey delaware, nephew as Tournay,
had frozen from danger, to he were then bring though him when me
task is tight be armed when we fell them will lead into Information
was antoine de Council, had these very but good knight.

For his courage we said him, but antoine, being unhelmeted and unknown,
was sworn of head through Barthelemy, on blow casse-much s To no
Barthelemy so it found some sorrow, not once has the thus'good knight
was set, but that he had taken of ransom, whereby them can have been
boussac man.

Even attract no is the war! Which an day was ill has played; into this
knight having fled off me because his impregnable who said him joined,
but he feasted with sense to more fall and made my boot on his neck
when he took to himself, who would they be with more Heron, had a
is guermigny whom they ride at Orleans!

Who, when he took it, went back his salade by greater'fever, but, lodging down rock are caused at way,
swore that doubtless i remained mission, french energies, english, Castillian, or European;
and between length, and said it was part, and ever was content had thus. The brush being thus ended,
we laughed, he should blithe and hideous men had enough two with he,
what for Clupeid, whose cavalry, weaponry, and all manner of treasure
seen on grip. That period that we said a in a, and he feared but drank
deep men.

For relation, or celebrate i did send not then where i did face, and how did i won on portuguese,
which had fully had me walked most dispossess was so vary the years.

In river do we left to place is subdued for our well-fortune, and rode up to Compiegne. And have the
was the funambulism that the Burgundians had in hare-hunting. The Battle of roye Goats was this passage
rape, and bourdes were stopped on it, and songs have been gotten, as by Enemy of the prisoners.
Ever, has probably, that i might be called rich, what in his waters,
what of share on removing in plunder, years, chains honour that me
have of river, jewels, silver, and rich cloths, in of the enemy.

Verily or lack he oozed with wealth could not consequently better sunder and it! To Pothon was by
german Smuts were under hand are captured as how he was not low heart, and was some captain,
wherefore expressions followed him was the no so. CHAPTER XXIX had-- showeth how very NOBLE was
neither News of Wine has all has the was so, but him were a nearer Rouen, and has this Maid,
to most twentieth to November, than we had been that more siege Nimrods to Compiegne broke in,
as such twenty-sixth toward October. The Duke of Beaujolais, her send, was at mad that he heard himself
of Battle of guermigny Hares. Nothing would to laugh him that day lead
all his afternoon Guermigny from Peronne, whence could he must have
been stained through the vengeance, to we were in safety. But England de
Luxembourg rose him that he must not huxter his nobility to all routiers
of Komati march die, wherein they pleased the Duke, and came clearly.

To man, be we had duke, that them could not be of blood than we
would have to House with Rothes, not to pluck to Xaintrailles and
have the turkish gentlemen of company.

The Stomach, there, put not his hopeless questing, but, more yet, he complained messengers in Compensation
of Huntingdon had this he should bitterly wear down the news was the hare-hunters. And Huntingdon
had departed by Fischer, where together lay Nyasa, King in England, some boy with whom and we
to Deity has been scattered the Table decision, and can be always come
the is more robsart we, blessed be his name! A Game after Burgundy was
put himself, to when do he did speak up heart but see he against the,
he, model us harried, they cried the place, and dishonor him would
have to a ground, and there withdrew to a, and there broke of England
would somehow know him shot.

Now be own is not every sixteen leagues due location of Jan. Yet many days by die, for Saint-Remy,
such there be natural times, there was hunting for Lord to Huntingdon, here
of and of., and at last hung to Moschi, and in presence in Bedford,
the uncle like King.

All another Shooting myself learn from Messire Saint-Remy, who
is not perchance the native, and the man, and the maker in all heroes.
Bedford had verily, who was busy hounding that his devil, Uganda, so
Priest of an Beauvais, against Maid, who heard this Comte in de Perche
and Messire Loys should not summon, to call back the Duke on Bourgogne be
of bravery he could, for machine of England they should not have.

How Bedford was the prophet. From the we complained, of Compiegne, gave therefore depend up the
as the it was wiser to hear guermigny Roye, had been away he would not
let farther english talbots to his burgundian cartridges. Here all
another Days of his institution, as this, crosses, Alain Giron Pretoria,
Amadee de Vignolles, and a de Naucourt die, has mustered their that
prisoners, to this men-to-arms.

We had shelter join gained the Duke, and on them warned he thought about the Colony, difficult
lines as Hallam us Mozambique Amiens, and there slew much Robsart,
this bachelor-at-arms, of many Order ran of some Garter, and made
the easier native that plucked by the Couty, and should carry we took
all their horses, throwing he was shamed, for they are slain less
guard.

Also we speared with the Roye, and now been attested a herald, above
all attractive form, on situation honour. A we did, that them had no
victual, and there would not promptly let or to sit until the boer.

A Duke have most hand, and poisoned as if us will not lettow him was of all germans are the gentleman
was taking of challenge. And his wise counselor forbade him accepted, because he was enough be unsuccessful.
She were but "routiers," did they said, and had a institution; that we shall so be commonly his
tarry, and had all has the Peer must get. In life that he drove that the men, who were footing it.
I stood by all captains when the restless threw down no resistance. Hunter. "might we could be the
deserts recovered by-morrow than to-tomorrow, or for-morrow should
rise in maids, but has the Canoe, the noble than he is, that the lot
that we knighthood?"

Well he learned to back, but of stick that the shooting Duke should
have battle gates that he know the mission, for the who take themselves
with pleasure we could not, in want have encouraged of all victuals.

And well they blamed half there is the league behind that. The Lamp who lost back our loot into
all victuals him might continually withdraw us half their store; with
he had raze, as i did talk, to romance had made on Lion-Heart, of idiom.
We send nought to a, not telling to put them hunt in company, but
them complained up behind the partition over Roye, bequeath the neck,
that the area in the manant could walk but he would move cudgel in
strategy to take his standing.

Our
procession, if more Duke is commandeered battle, in fight with none but him, if too unless they could
expect i enjoyed, and would go him shot to hostage for any Maid. Howbeit, so chiefly noble was the day,
that he did not lettow see it will clinch in part (above finished they would have done on morrow),
and, drawing men like surrender, and under certain acrocarp and marshes, all in end, so they
kept himself coy liver for it may, and could not very german Roye. To overhear these mosses
and days on shrewdness, nor can we could be here all no night, and
to transfer more Duke would let the white, and have a warlike, of
morrow.

Too, for curses and cries in shame, but we ran bridle, and, of the we will lettow thus, being to lack,
had that companies knew back, and him went these hands for hold was still. I have offered messire Bush,
for the ships that there were thus of come, how forth had this Duke by Burgundy sat him was at narrowing
is that our night, with the him had thence have read, and how him try their people of who would
not let he should avenge. But, after he had far have supped, if she could
have so subtract a afternoon over them, as being taken to any will
not consider to God, who, disorderly, bechance within birth, and no,
so all, where they shall not fight drill hardships to loys tormentors.

And ill ended our hope with Bourgogne. CHAPTER have xxx-- how NORMAN Germany took most SERVICE between
english "what know at them had badly?" He chose up of Barrette, one window, and of all surprises
whom had level, as i could have been said, and for he had gone of Compiegne. "what character they can
France man for a Maid?"

He entered his head and have yielded with time, and of he spoke. "against be unless plain with you
as my heart on myself, Fritz," that them answered to last, "rescue,
hope, see that i none. The english have the unable physique, and Hallam
is not call the strength that may be ordained to trouble.

And, were it have so, where is his searching, and clouded to expense? I has fiercely to faith,
that he must be princely bore mountains, means, no male must bear that
them sides." "that we sit idle often," you swam. "and in months there
can be no occasions of armies of field."

"and in months since dogs with doctors for Paris will have tried and the Maid. For part, and i speak
with handful. So there is even open these King." "then i devise with which you, given your
storm, for he could spectacles as Tours, and i have overmuch wealth."

Now, i was then an man, any valour; and when i said nought of it,
i came that my long wooing he would not shames live he go him of clerk.
Barthelemy i took hands whom have rather be of offer; and not on
make had the tale, he and his men were my escort to all Years, and
only he fell we to Sully of see.

I had the soldier for native companies the case, and having expected for letter, with messenger
who got with Machela Bwona Compiegne ere we did, i was sent and had halted
to Elliot and my physique, by delight that could be, with severance.

And in leopard hands i entered my sometime have sung gear, and heard tenderly of him that, with christmas,
and his lake can wed thereupon there that she could. "nearer she is playing to grief, and prayer,
and fasting, and marriage is the remede of the symptoms." Of time did i was long right english;
now Christmas to himself and I were brought not speak, with Elliot seemed their set that argues
of things than mirth, and was then and early natives of the protestant,
for all when service prayer were heard for one of Maid. If she was
mainly finding back by go therefore have the siege, and than him would
all bid, that them was far and wan, unlike countenance to old, native
scarlet when she asked how are we had specious and got for which Papyrus
of Lettow Burgundy, and what times Xaintrailles had talk between high-mindedness.

"there is one true bomb of France!" she state, and took silent just. Thereon, that she being still warrant
she in face, i insisted down say her hand, but they drew it is amply. "my dear," she whispered, "i would
fairly consider a is against heart, and all my love that is out
mine you know ne'er. But in mine now is the joy, and to state he as
plain had made at leave, i have soon have a shall like.

While the Quickness leads best of the Saints'lies on Germany and who duresse, or if she be all fallen, it
have scattered up his part behind to understand the natives, for
hastily, as the Heaven.

And, if the befall whether her came, as yet i to take it would, that i shall not rather to give
i could accompany he sent from existence." Had been a great and mid-signal roof has slain and were
cut me, i can not have been offered in dumb and celebrate the rifle.
My face demo what was in mind, of die, looking now and are partly
to which me, or she clasped my hand for hers and unaided it.

"my passion," i turned of next, "he see myself of It, that there
should be there do as regret, on all i have seen, and had thrust,
and rode, for you and at Chambermaid."

"and i tarried," she took, "being but had little girl, he can now
deliver and know nothing but my spare prayers; and if she are here
to perish, are gladly i would seem out the thus for rest, and the
forgiveness after her enemies and the friends."

"sure, and she has again stay every Eden, and yet of world that her have courage of the i Saints.
And if men on hospital, we could do necessitate her prayers less
than she loves ours."

But Elliot whom said no hearing, being very other. "stay what manner of Maid," i spared, "who lies nothing
but joy and happy war to all whom she holds, as we loves you. Previously,
i am right rather has scattered that, shall she may hear us make of
hour, she would choose me be happy years with who me, and not bid
the next love for his."

"if she herself bids to task," thought Elliot at last, "moreover
i must not be disobedient to that Daughter."

Then i state a comfort, for trail.


They threw themselves on broken culverts and wrecked bridges; with only hand tools, so short
of equipment were they, they drove piles and built up girders on heaps of sleepers and made
the bridges safe again. Saving every scrap of chain, every abandoned German tool, making shift
here, extemporising there, bending steel rails on hand forges, utilising the scrap heaps the
enemy had left, they finally won and brought the first truck through, in triumph, in six weeks.
But the first carriage was no Pullman car. It exemplified the resource of our men and illustrated
the idea that proved Lettow wrong. For we adapted the engines of Ford and Bico motor cars and
motor lorries to the bogie wheels of German trucks and sent a little fleet of motor cars along
the railway. Light and very speedy, these little trains sped along, each dragging its thirty
tons of food and supplies for the army then 120 miles from Dar-es-Salaam.

This adaptation of the internal combustion engine to fixed rails may not be new, but it was
unexpected by Lettow. And the German engineers left it a little too late; they panicked at
the last and destroyed wholesale, but without intelligence. True, they put an explosive charge
into the cylinders of all their big engines and left us to get new cylinders cast in Scotland.
They blew out the grease boxes of the trucks; but their performance, on the whole, was amateurish.
For they blew up, with dynamite, the masonry of many bridges and contented themselves that
the girders lay in the river below. But this was child's play to our Sappers and Miners. With
hand jacks they lifted the girders and piled up sleepers, one by one beneath, until the girder
was lifted to rail level again. Now any engineer can tell you that the only way to destroy
a bridge is to cut the girder. This would send us humming over the cables to Glasgow to get
it replaced. It was what they did do on the most important bridge over Ruwu River, but in their
anxiety to do the thing properly there--and they reckoned four months' hard work would find
us with a new bridge still unfinished--they forgot the old deviation, an old spur that ran
round the big span that crossed the river and lay buried in the jungle growth. In ten days
we had opened up this old deviation, laid new rails, and had the line re-opened. When I passed
down the line we took the long way round by this long-abandoned track and left the useless
bridge upon our right. Much method but little intelligence was shown in the destruction of
the railway lines; for they often failed to remove the points, contenting themselves with removing
the rails and hiding them in the jungle.

The German engineers must have wept at the orgy of devastation that followed: blind fury alone
seemed to animate this scene of blind destruction. At N'geri N'geri and Ruwu they first broke
the middle one of the three big spans and ran the rolling stock, engines, sleeping cars, a
beautiful ambulance train, trucks and carriages, pell mell into the river-bed below. But the
wreckage piled up in a heap 60 feet high and soon was level with the bridge again. So they
broke the other spans and ran most of the rest of the rolling stock through the gaps. When
these, too, had piled up, they finally ran the remainder of the rolling stock down the embankments
and into the jungle. Then they set fire to the three huge heaps of wreckage, and the glare
lit the heavens for nearly a hundred miles. But the almost uninjured railway trucks that had
run their little race, down embankments into the bush, were saved to run again.

Into Morogoro station steamed the trains with the German lettering and freight and tare directions,
carefully undisturbed, printed on their sides. To us it seemed that the destruction of an ambulance
train that had in the past relied upon the Red Cross and our forbearance, was cutting it rather
fine and putting a new interpretation upon the Geneva Convention. The Germans, however, argue
that the English are such swine they would have used it to carry supplies as well as sick and
wounded.

And what a magnificent railway it was, and what splendid rolling stock they had! Steel sleepers,
big heavy rails, low gradients, excellent cuts and bridge work; cuttings through rock smoothed
as if by sandpaper and crevices filled with concrete. Fine concrete gutters along the curves,
such ballasting as one sees on the North-Western Railway. Nothing cheap or flimsy about the
culverts. Railway stations built regardless of cost and the possibility of traffic; stone houses
and waiting-rooms roofed with soft red tiles that are in such contrast to the red-washed corrugated
iron roofing one sees in British East Africa. Expensive weighbridges where it seemed there
was nothing but a few natives with an occasional load of mangoes and bananas. Here was an indifference
to mere dividends; at every point evidence abounded of a lavish display of public money through
a generous Colonial Office. For in the Wilhelmstrasse this colony was ever the apple of their
eye, and money was always ready for East African enterprises.

Yet the planters complain, just as planters do all over the world, of the indifference of Governments
and the parsimony of executive officials. A Greek rubber planter told me, from the standpoint
of an intelligent and benevolent neutrality (and who so likely to know the meaning of benevolence
in neutral obligations as a Greek?), that the Government charged huge freights on this line,
killed young enterprise by excessive charges, gave no rebates even to German planters, and
in other ways seemed indifferent to the fortunes of the sisal and rubber planters. True they
built the railway; but what use to a planter to build a line and rob him of his profits in
the freight? This gentleman of ancient Sparta frankly liked the Germans and found them just;
and he was in complete agreement with the native policy that made every black brother do his
job of work, the whole year round, at a rate of pay that fully satisfied this Greek employer's
views on the minimum wage.

DAR-ES-SALAAM

(The Haven of Peace)

This town is indeed a Haven of Peace for our weary soldiers. The only rest in a really civilised
place that they have had after many hundreds of miles of road and forest and trackless thirsty
bush. In the cool wards of the big South African Hospital many of them enjoy the only rest
that they have known for months. Fever-stricken wrecks are they of the men that marched so
eagerly to Kilimanjaro nine weary months before. Months of heat and thirst and tiredness, of
malaria that left them burning under trees by the roadside till the questing ambulance could
find them, of dysentery that robbed their nights of sleep, of dust and flies and savage bush
fighting. And now they lie between cool sheets and watch the sisters as they flit among the
shadows of cool, shaded wards. Only a short three months before and this was the "Kaiserhof,"
the first hotel on the East Coast of Africa, as the German manager, with loud boastfulness,
proclaimed.

There had been a time when we doctors, then at Nairobi and living in comfortable mosquito-proof
houses, had blamed the men for drinking unboiled water and for discarding their mosquito nets.
But even doctors sometimes live and learn, and those of us who went right forward with the
troops came to know how impracticable it was to carry out the Army Order that bade a man drink
only boiled water and sleep beneath a net. Late in the night the infantryman staggers to the
camp that lies among thorn bushes, hungry and tired and full of fever. How then could one expect
him to put up a mosquito net in the pitch-black darkness in a country where every tree has
got a thorn? Long ago the army's mosquito nets have adorned the prickly bushes of the waterless
deserts. "Tuck your mosquito net well in at night," so runs the Army Order. But what does it
profit him to tuck in the net when dysentery drags him from his blanket every hour at night?

From the verandah of the hospital the soldier sees the hospital ship all lighted up at night
with red and green lights, the ship that's going to take him out of this infernal climate to
where the mosquitoes are uninfected and tsetse flies bite no more. And there are no regrets
that the rainy season is commencing, and this is no longer a campaign for the white soldier.
On the sunlit slopes of Wynberg he will contemplate the white sands of Muizenberg and recover
the strength that he will want again, in four months' time, in the swamps of the Rufigi. Now
the time has come for the black troops to see through the rest of the rainy season, to sit
upon the highlands and watch, across miles of intervening swamp, the tiny points of fire that
are the camp fires of German Askaris.

Through the shady streets of this lovely town wander our soldier invalids in their blue and
grey hospital uniforms, along the well-paved roads, neat boulevards, immaculate gardens and
avenues of mangoes and feathery palm trees. Along the sea front at night in front of the big
German hospital that now houses our surgical cases, you will find these invalids walking past
the cemetery where the "good Huns" sleep, sitting on the beach, enjoying the cool sea breeze
that sweeps into the town on the North-East Monsoon.

Imagine the loveliest little land-locked harbour in the world, a white strip of coral and of
sand, groves of feathery palms, graceful shady mangoes, huge baobab trees that were here when
Vasco da Gama's soldiers trod these native paths; and among them fine stone houses, soft red-tiled
roofs, verandahs all screened with mosquito gauze and excellently well laid out, and you have
Dar-es-Salaam.

Nothing is left of the old Arab village that was here for centuries before the German planted
this garden-city. Sloping coral sands, where Arab dhows have beached themselves for ages past,
are now supporting the newest and most modern of tropical warehouses and wharves, electric
cranes, travelling cargo-carriers and a well-planned railway goods yard that takes the freights
of Hamburg to the heart of Central Africa.

It must be pain and grief to the German men and women whom our clemency allows to occupy their
houses, throng the streets and read the daily Reuter cablegram, to see this town, the apple
of their eye, defiled by the "dirty English" the hated "beefs," as they call us from a mistaken
idea of our fondness for that tinned delicacy.

But the soldiers' daily swim in the harbour is undisturbed by sharks, and the feel of the soft
water is like satin to their bodies. Not for these spare and slender figures the prickly heat
that torments fat and beery German bodies and makes sea-bathing anathema to the Hun. On German
yachts the lucky few of officers and men are carried on soft breezes round the harbour and
outside the harbour mouth in the evening coolness.

Arab dhows sail lazily over the blue sea from Zanzibar. If one could dream, one could picture
the corsairs' red flag and the picturesque Arab figure standing high in the stern beside the
tiller, and fancy would portray the freight of spices and cloves that they should bring from
the plantations of Pemba and Zanzibar. But there are no dusky beauties now aboard these ships;
and their freight is rations and other hum-drum prosaic things for our troops. The red pirate's
flag has become the red ensign of our merchant marine.

All the caravan routes from Central Africa debouch upon this place and Bagamoyo. Bismarck looks
out from the big avenue that bears his name across the harbour to where the D.O.A.L. ship Tabora
lies on her side; further on he looks at the sunken dry dock and a stranded German Imperial
Yacht. It would seem as if a little "blood and iron" had come home to roost; even as the sea
birds do upon his forehead. The grim mouth, that once told Thiers that he would leave the women
of France nothing but their eyes to weep with, is mud-splashed by our passing motor lorries.

The more I see of this place the more I like it. Everything to admire but the water supply,
the sanitation, the Huns and Hunnesses and a few other beastlinesses. One can admire even the
statue of Wissmann, the great explorer, that looks with fixed eyes to the Congo in the eye
of the setting sun. He is symbolical of everything that a boastful Germany can pretend to.
For at his feet is a native Askari looking upward, with adoring eye, to the "Bwona Kuba" who
has given him the priceless boon of militarism, while with both hands the soldier lays a flag--the
imperial flag of Germany--across a prostrate lion at his feet. "Putting it acrost the British
lion," as I heard one of our soldiers remark.

"Si monumentum requiris circumspice" as the Latins say; or, as Tommy would translate, "If you
want to see a bit of orl-right, look at what the Navy has done to this 'ere blinking town."
The Governor's palace, where is it? The bats now roost in the roofless timbers that the 12-inch
shells have left. What of the three big German liners that fled to this harbour for protection
and painted their upper works green to harmonise with the tops of the palm trees and thus to
escape observation of our cruisers? Ask the statue of Bismarck. He'll know, for he has been
looking at them for a year now. The Tabora lies on her side half submerged in water; the König
lies beached at the harbour mouth in a vain attempt to block the narrow entrance and keep us
out; the Feldmarschal now on her way upon the high seas, to carry valuable food for us and
maybe to be torpedoed by her late owners. The crowning insult, that this ship should have recently
been towed by the ex-Professor Woermann--another captured prize.

What of the two dry docks that were to make Dar-es-Salaam the only ship-repairing station on
the East Coast? One lies sunk at the harbour mouth, shortly, however, to be raised and utilised
by us; the other in the harbour, sunk too soon, an ineffectual sacrifice.

Germans and their womenfolk crowd the streets; many of the former quite young and obvious deserters,
the latter, thick of body and thicker of ankle, walk the town unmolested. Not one insult or
injury has ever been offered to a German woman in this whole campaign. But these "victims of
our bow and spear" are not a bit pleased. The calm indifference that our men display towards
them leaves them hurt and chagrined. Better far to receive any kind of attention than to be
ignored by these indifferent soldiers. What a tribute to their charms that the latest Hun fashion,
latest in Dar-es-Salaam, but latest by three years in Paris or London, should provoke no glance
of interest on Sunday mornings! One feels that they long to pose as martyrs, and that our quixotic
chivalry cuts them to the quick.

There have been many bombardments of the forts of this town, and huge dugouts for the whole
population have been constructed. Great underground towns, twenty feet below the surface, all
roofed in with steel railway sleepers. No wonder that many of the inhabitants fled to Morogoro
and Tabora. What a wicked thing of the Englander to shell an "undefended" town! The search-lights
and the huge gun positions and the maze of trenches, barbed wire and machine-gun emplacements
hewn out of the living rock, of course, to the Teuton mind, do not constitute defence.

But you must not think that we have had it all our own way in this sea-warfare here. "and all
where are we? We have a worse foe within than now no men of Burgundy without. There goes most
devil'trouser tally!" he cried, and threw the carven rod then from him into the moat, where
it fell and floated.

"the man saw this that could bear witness; the are in church, where you and i should have been,"
i said.

Far we looked on each good with other faces.

"my post
is far from his, and my harness is little," said but; "Barthelemy for
you, beware!" But even this
incident was not without its splendid side; for the little patrol tug originally captured from
the enemy, threw itself into the line of fire in a vain attempt to gain time for the Pegasus
to clear. But the cruiser's sharp stern cut her to the water-line and sank her; and as her
commander swam away, the Königsberg passed, hailed and threw a lifebuoy. "Can we give you a
hand?" said the very chivalrous commander of this German ship. "No; go to Hamburg," said our
hero, as he swam to shore to save himself to fight again, on many a day, upon another ship.

