'Sometimes at night,' said the boy, 'when you are reading, with the rod of quicken wood in
your hand, I look out of the door and see, now a great grey man driving swine among the hazels,
and now many little people in red caps who come out of the lake driving little white cows before
them. I do not fear these little people so much as the grey man; for, when they come near the
house, they milk the cows, and they drink the frothing milk, and begin to dance; and I know
there is good in the heart that loves dancing; but I fear them for all that. And I fear the
tall white-armed ladies who come out of the air, and move slowly hither and thither, crowning
themselves with the roses or with the lilies, and shaking about their living hair, which moves,
for so I have heard them tell each other, with the motion of their thoughts, now spreading
out and now gathering close to their heads. They have mild, beautiful faces, but, Aengus, son
of Forbis, I fear all these beings, I fear the people of Sidhe, and I fear the art which draws
them about us.'

'Why,' said the old man, 'do you fear the ancient gods who made the spears of your father's
fathers to be stout in battle, and the little people who came at night from the depth of the
lakes and sang among the crickets upon their hearths? And in our evil day they still watch
over the loveliness of the earth. But I must tell you why I have fasted and laboured when others
would sink into the sleep of age, for without your help once more I shall have fasted and laboured
to no good end. When you have done for me this last thing, you may go and build your cottage
and till your fields, and take some girl to wife, and forget the ancient gods. I have saved
all the gold and silver pieces that were given to me by earls and knights and squires for keeping
them from the evil eye and from the love-weaving enchantments of witches, and by earls' and
knights' and squires' ladies for keeping the people of the Sidhe from making the udders of
their cattle fall dry, and taking the butter from their churns. I have saved it all for the
day when my work should be at an end, and now that the end is at hand you shall not lack for
gold and silver pieces enough to make strong the roof-tree of your cottage and to keep cellar
and larder full. I have sought through all my life to find the secret of life. I was not happy
in my youth, for I knew that it would pass; and I was not happy in my manhood, for I knew that
age was coming; and so I gave myself, in youth and manhood and age, to the search for the Great
Secret. I longed for a life whose abundance would fill centuries, I scorned the life of fourscore
winters. I would be--nay, I will be!--like the Ancient Gods of the land. I read in my youth,
in a Hebrew manuscript I found in a Spanish monastery, that there is a moment after the Sun
has entered the Ram and before he has passed the Lion, which trembles with the Song of the
Immortal Powers, and that whosoever finds this moment and listens to the Song shall become
like the Immortal Powers themselves; I came back to Ireland and asked the fairy men, and the
cow-doctors, if they knew when this moment was; but though all had heard of it, there was none
could find the moment upon the hour-glass. So I gave myself to magic, and spent my life in
fasting and in labour that I might bring the Gods and the Fairies to my side; and now at last
one of the Fairies has told me that the moment is at hand. One, who wore a red cap and whose
lips were white with the froth of the new milk, whispered it into my ear. Tomorrow, a little
before the close of the first hour after dawn, I shall find the moment, and then I will go
away to a southern land and build myself a palace of white marble amid orange trees, and gather
the brave and the beautiful about me, and enter into the eternal kingdom of my youth. But,
that I may hear the whole Song, I was told by the little fellow with the froth of the new milk
on his lips, that you must bring great masses of green boughs and pile them about the door
and the window of my room; and you must put fresh green rushes upon the floor, and cover the
table and the rushes with the roses and the lilies of the monks. You must do this to-night,
and in the morning at the end of the first hour after dawn, you must come and find me.'

'Will you be quite young then?' said the boy.

'I will be as young then as you are, but now I am still old and tired, and you must help me
to my chair and to my books.'

When the boy had left Aengus son of Forbis in his room, and had lighted the lamp which, by
some contrivance of the wizard's, gave forth a sweet odour as of strange flowers, he went into
the wood and began cutting green boughs from the hazels, and great bundles of rushes from the
western border of the isle, where the small rocks gave place to gently sloping sand and clay.
It was nightfall before he had cut enough for his purpose, and well-nigh midnight before he
had carried the last bundle to its place, and gone back for the roses and the lilies. It was
one of those warm, beautiful nights when everything seems carved of precious stones. Sleuth
Wood away to the south looked as though cut out of green beryl, and the waters that mirrored
them shone like pale opal. The roses he was gathering were like glowing rubies, and the lilies
had the dull lustre of pearl. Everything had taken upon itself the look of something imperishable,
except a glow-worm, whose faint flame burnt on steadily among the shadows, moving slowly hither
and thither, the only thing that seemed alive, the only thing that seemed perishable as mortal
hope. The boy gathered a great armful of roses and lilies, and thrusting the glow- worm among
their pearl and ruby, carried them into the room, where the old man sat in a half-slumber.
He laid armful after armful upon the floor and above the table, and then, gently closing the
door, threw himself upon his bed of rushes, to dream of a peaceful manhood with his chosen
wife at his side, and the laughter of children in his ears. At dawn he rose, and went down
to the edge of the lake, taking the hour-glass with him. He put some bread and a flask of wine
in the boat, that his master might not lack food at the outset of his journey, and then sat
down to wait until the hour from dawn had gone by. Gradually the birds began to sing, and when
the last grains of sand were falling, everything suddenly seemed to overflow with their music.
It was the most beautiful and living moment of the year; one could listen to the spring's heart
beating in it. He got up and went to find his master. The green boughs filled the door, and
he had to make a way through them. When he entered the room the sunlight was falling in flickering
circles on floor and walls and table, and everything was full of soft green shadows. But the
old man sat clasping a mass of roses and lilies in his arms, and with his head sunk upon his
breast. On the table, at his left hand, was a leathern wallet full of gold and silver pieces,
as for a journey, and at his right hand was a long staff. The boy touched him and he did not
move. He lifted the hands but they were quite cold, and they fell heavily.

'It were better for him,' said the lad, 'to have told his beads and said his prayers like another,
and not to have spent his days in seeking amongst the Immortal Powers what he could have found
in his own deeds and days had he willed. Ah, yes, it were better to have said his prayers and
kissed his beads!' He looked at the threadbare blue velvet, and he saw it was covered with
the pollen of the flowers, and while he was looking at it a thrush, who had alighted among
the boughs that were piled against the window, began to sing.

