THE RESEARCH MAGNIFICENT

by H. G. Wells

(1915)

CONTENTS

     THE PRELUDE

           ON FEAR AND ARISTOCRACY

     THE STORY

       I.  THE BOY GROWS UP

      II.  THE YOUNG MAN ABOUT TOWN

     III.  AMANDA

      IV.  THE SPIRITED HONEYMOON

       V.  THE ASSIZE OF JEALOUSY

      VI.  THE NEW HAROUN AL RASCHID

THE RESEARCH MAGNIFICENT

THE PRELUDE

ON FEAR AND ARISTOCRACY

1

The story of William Porphyry Benham is the story of a man who was led into adventure by an
idea. It was an idea that took possession of his imagination quite early in life, it grew with
him and changed with him, it interwove at last completely with his being. His story is its
story. It was traceably germinating in the schoolboy; it was manifestly present in his mind
at the very last moment of his adventurous life. He belonged to that fortunate minority who
are independent of daily necessities, so that he was free to go about the world under its direction.
It led him far. It led him into situations that bordered upon the fantastic, it made him ridiculous,
it came near to making him sublime. And this idea of his was of such a nature that in several
aspects he could document it. Its logic forced him to introspection and to the making of a record.

An idea that can play so large a part in a life must necessarily have something of the complication
and protean quality of life itself. It is not to be stated justly in any formula, it is not
to be rendered by an epigram. As well one might show a man's skeleton for his portrait. Yet,
essentially, Benham's idea was simple. He had an incurable, an almost innate persuasion that
he had to live life nobly and thoroughly. His commoner expression for that thorough living
is "the aristocratic life." But by "aristocratic" he meant something very different from the
quality of a Russian prince, let us say, or an English peer. He meant an intensity, a clearness....
Nobility for him was to get something out of his individual existence, a flame, a jewel, a
splendour--it is a thing easier to understand than to say.

One might hesitate to call this idea "innate," and yet it comes soon into a life when it comes
at all. In Benham's case we might trace it back to the Day Nursery at Seagate, we might detect
it stirring already at the petticoat stage, in various private struttings and valiant dreamings
with a helmet of pasteboard and a white-metal sword. We have most of us been at least as far
as that with Benham. And we have died like Horatius, slaying our thousands for our country,
or we have perished at the stake or faced the levelled muskets of the firing party--"No, do
not bandage my eyes"--because we would not betray the secret path that meant destruction to
our city. But with Benham the vein was stronger, and it increased instead of fading out as
he grew to manhood. It was less obscured by those earthy acquiescences, those discretions,
that saving sense of proportion, which have made most of us so satisfactorily what we are.
"Porphyry," his mother had discovered before he was seventeen, "is an excellent boy, a brilliant
boy, but, I begin to see, just a little unbalanced."

The interest of him, the absurdity of him, the story of him, is that.

Most of us are--balanced; in spite of occasional reveries we do come to terms with the limitations
of life, with those desires and dreams and discretions that, to say the least of it, qualify
our nobility, we take refuge in our sense of humour and congratulate ourselves on a certain
amiable freedom from priggishness or presumption, but for Benham that easy declension to a
humorous acceptance of life as it is did not occur. He found his limitations soon enough; he
was perpetually rediscovering them, but out of these interments of the spirit he rose again--remarkably.
When we others have decided that, to be plain about it, we are not going to lead the noble
life at all, that the thing is too ambitious and expensive even to attempt, we have done so
because there were other conceptions of existence that were good enough for us, we decided
that instead of that glorious impossible being of ourselves, we would figure in our own eyes
as jolly fellows, or sly dogs, or sane, sound, capable men or brilliant successes, and so forth--practicable
things. For Benham, exceptionally, there were not these practicable things. He blundered, he
fell short of himself, he had--as you will be told--some astonishing rebuffs, but they never
turned him aside for long. He went by nature for this preposterous idea of nobility as a linnet
hatched in a cage will try to fly.

And when he discovered--and in this he was assisted not a little by his friend at his elbow--when
he discovered that Nobility was not the simple thing he had at first supposed it to be, he
set himself in a mood only slightly disconcerted to the discovery of Nobility. When it dawned
upon him, as it did, that one cannot be noble, so to speak, IN VACUO, he set himself to discover
a Noble Society. He began with simple beliefs and fine attitudes and ended in a conscious research.
If he could not get through by a stride, then it followed that he must get through by a climb.
He spent the greater part of his life studying and experimenting in the noble possibilities
of man. He never lost his absurd faith in that conceivable splendour. At first it was always
just round the corner or just through the wood; to the last it seemed still but a little way
beyond the distant mountains.

For this reason this story has been called THE RESEARCH MAGNIFICENT. It was a real research,
it was documented. In the rooms in Westhaven Street that at last were as much as one could
call his home, he had accumulated material for--one hesitates to call it a book--let us say
it was an analysis of, a guide to the noble life. There after his tragic death came his old
friend White, the journalist and novelist, under a promise, and found these papers; he found
them to the extent of a crammed bureau, half a score of patent files quite distended and a
writing-table drawer-full, and he was greatly exercised to find them. They were, White declares,
they are still after much experienced handling, an indigestible aggregation. On this point
White is very assured. When Benham thought he was gathering together a book he was dreaming,
White says. There is no book in it....

Perhaps too, one might hazard, Benham was dreaming when he thought the noble life a human possibility.
Perhaps man, like the ape and the hyaena and the tapeworm and many other of God's necessary
but less attractive creatures, is not for such exalted ends. That doubt never seems to have
got a lodgment in Benham's skull; though at times one might suppose it the basis of White's
thought. You will find in all Benham's story, if only it can be properly told, now subdued,
now loud and amazed and distressed, but always traceable, this startled, protesting question,
"BUT WHY THE DEVIL AREN'T WE?" As though necessarily we ought to be. He never faltered in his
persuasion that behind the dingy face of this world, the earthy stubbornness, the baseness
and dulness of himself and all of us, lurked the living jewels of heaven, the light of glory,
things unspeakable. At first it seemed to him that one had only just to hammer and will, and
at the end, after a life of willing and hammering, he was still convinced there was something,
something in the nature of an Open Sesame, perhaps a little more intricate than one had supposed
at first, a little more difficult to secure, but still in that nature, which would suddenly
roll open for mankind the magic cave of the universe, that precious cave at the heart of all
things, in which one must believe.

And then life--life would be the wonder it so perplexingly just isn't....

2

Benham did not go about the world telling people of this consuming research. He was not the
prophet or preacher of his idea. It was too living and intricate and uncertain a part of him
to speak freely about. It was his secret self; to expose it casually would have shamed him.
He drew all sorts of reserves about him, he wore his manifest imperfections turned up about
him like an overcoat in bitter wind. He was content to be inexplicable. His thoughts led him
to the conviction that this magnificent research could not be, any more than any other research
can be, a solitary enterprise, but he delayed expression; in a mighty writing and stowing away
of these papers he found a relief from the unpleasant urgency to confess and explain himself
prematurely. So that White, though he knew Benham with the intimacy of an old schoolfellow
who had renewed his friendship, and had shared his last days and been a witness of his death,
read the sheets of manuscript often with surprise and with a sense of added elucidation.

And, being also a trained maker of books, White as he read was more and more distressed that
an accumulation so interesting should be so entirely unshaped for publication. "But this will
never make a book," said White with a note of personal grievance. His hasty promise in their
last moments together had bound him, it seemed, to a task he now found impossible. He would
have to work upon it tremendously; and even then he did not see how it could be done.

This collection of papers was not a story, not an essay, not a confession, not a diary. It
was--nothing definable. It went into no conceivable covers. It was just, White decided, a proliferation.
A vast proliferation. It wanted even a title. There were signs that Benham had intended to
call it THE ARISTOCRATIC LIFE, and that he had tried at some other time the title of AN ESSAY
ON ARISTOCRACY. Moreover, it would seem that towards the end he had been disposed to drop the
word "aristocratic" altogether, and adopt some such phrase as THE LARGER LIFE. Once it was
LIFE SET FREE. He had fallen away more and more from nearly everything that one associates
with aristocracy--at the end only its ideals of fearlessness and generosity remained.

Of all these titles THE ARISTOCRATIC LIFE seemed at first most like a clue to White. Benham's
erratic movements, his sudden impulses, his angers, his unaccountable patiences, his journeys
to strange places, and his lapses into what had seemed to be pure adventurousness, could all
be put into system with that. Before White had turned over three pages of the great fascicle
of manuscript that was called Book Two, he had found the word "Bushido" written with a particularly
flourishing capital letter and twice repeated. "That was inevitable," said White with the comforting
regret one feels for a friend's banalities. "And it dates... [unreadable] this was early...."

"Modern aristocracy, the new aristocracy," he read presently, "has still to be discovered and
understood. This is the necessary next step for mankind. As far as possible I will discover
and understand it, and as far as I know it I will be it. This is the essential disposition
of my mind. God knows I have appetites and sloths and habits and blindnesses, but so far as
it is in my power to release myself I will escape to this...."

3

White sat far into the night and for several nights turning over papers and rummaging in untidy
drawers. Memories came back to him of his dead friend and pieced themselves together with other
memories and joined on to scraps in this writing. Bold yet convincing guesses began to leap
across the gaps. A story shaped itself....

The story began with the schoolfellow he had known at Minchinghampton School.

Benham had come up from his father's preparatory school at Seagate. He had been a boy reserved
rather than florid in his acts and manners, a boy with a pale face, incorrigible hair and brown
eyes that went dark and deep with excitement. Several times White had seen him excited, and
when he was excited Benham was capable of tensely daring things. On one occasion he had insisted
upon walking across a field in which was an aggressive bull. It had been put there to prevent
the boys taking a short cut to the swimming place. It had bellowed tremendously and finally
charged him. He had dodged it and got away; at the time it had seemed an immense feat to White
and the others who were safely up the field. He had walked to the fence, risking a second charge
by his deliberation. Then he had sat on the fence and declared his intention of always crossing
the field so long as the bull remained there. He had said this with white intensity, he had
stopped abruptly in mid-sentence, and then suddenly he had dropped to the ground, clutched
the fence, struggled with heaving shoulders, and been sick.

The combination of apparently stout heart and manifestly weak stomach had exercised the Minchinghampton
intelligence profoundly.

On one or two other occasions Benham had shown courage of the same rather screwed-up sort.
He showed it not only in physical but in mental things. A boy named Prothero set a fashion
of religious discussion in the school, and Benham, after some self-examination, professed an
atheistical republicanism rather in the manner of Shelley. This brought him into open conflict
with Roddles, the History Master. Roddles had discovered these theological controversies in
some mysterious way, and he took upon himself to talk at Benham and Prothero. He treated them
to the common misapplication of that fool who "hath said in his heart there is no God." He
did not perceive there was any difference between the fool who says a thing in his heart and
one who says it in the dormitory. He revived that delectable anecdote of the Eton boy who professed
disbelief and was at once "soundly flogged" by his head master. "Years afterwards that boy
came back to thank ----"

"Gurr," said Prothero softly. "STEW--ard!"

"Your turn next, Benham," whispered an orthodox controversialist.

"Good Lord! I'd like to see him," said Benham with a forced loudness that could scarcely be
ignored.

The subsequent controversy led to an interview with the head. From it Benham emerged more whitely
strung up than ever. "He said he would certainly swish me if I deserved it, and I said I would
certainly kill him if he did."

"And then?"

"He told me to go away and think it over. Said he would preach about it next Sunday.... Well,
a swishing isn't a likely thing anyhow. But I would.... There isn't a master here I'd stand
a thrashing from--not one.... And because I choose to say what I think!... I'd run amuck."

For a week or so the school was exhilarated by a vain and ill-concealed hope that the head
might try it just to see if Benham would. It was tantalizingly within the bounds of possibility....

These incidents came back to White's mind as he turned over the newspapers in the upper drawer
of the bureau. The drawer was labelled "Fear--the First Limitation," and the material in it
was evidently designed for the opening volume of the great unfinished book. Indeed, a portion
of it was already arranged and written up.

As White read through this manuscript he was reminded of a score of schoolboy discussions Benham
and he and Prothero had had together. Here was the same old toughness of mind, a kind of intellectual
hardihood, that had sometimes shocked his schoolfellows. Benham had been one of those boys
who do not originate ideas very freely, but who go out to them with a fierce sincerity. He
believed and disbelieved with emphasis. Prothero had first set him doubting, but it was Benham's
own temperament took him on to denial. His youthful atheism had been a matter for secret consternation
in White. White did not believe very much in God even then, but this positive disbelieving
frightened him. It was going too far. There had been a terrible moment in the dormitory, during
a thunderstorm, a thunderstorm so vehement that it had awakened them all, when Latham, the
humourist and a quietly devout boy, had suddenly challenged Benham to deny his Maker.

"NOW say you don't believe in God?"

Benham sat up in bed and repeated his negative faith, while little Hopkins, the Bishop's son,
being less certain about the accuracy of Providence than His aim, edged as far as he could
away from Benham's cubicle and rolled his head in his bedclothes.

"And anyhow," said Benham, when it was clear that he was not to be struck dead forthwith, "you
show a poor idea of your God to think he'd kill a schoolboy for honest doubt. Even old Roddles--"

"I can't listen to you," cried Latham the humourist, "I can't listen to you. It's--HORRIBLE."

"Well, who began it?" asked Benham.

A flash of lightning lit the dormitory and showed him to White white-faced and ablaze with
excitement, sitting up with the bed-clothes about him. "Oh WOW!" wailed the muffled voice of
little Hopkins as the thunder burst like a giant pistol overhead, and he buried his head still
deeper in the bedclothes and gave way to unappeasable grief.

Latham's voice came out of the darkness. "This ATHEISM that you and Billy Prothero have brought
into the school--"

He started violently at another vivid flash, and every one remained silent, waiting for the
thunder....

But White remembered no more of the controversy because he had made a frightful discovery that
filled and blocked his mind. Every time the lightning flashed, there was a red light in Benham's
eyes....

It was only three days after when Prothero discovered exactly the same phenomenon in the School
House boothole and talked of cats and cattle, that White's confidence in their friend was partially
restored....

4

"Fear, the First Limitation"--his title indicated the spirit of Benham's opening book very
clearly. His struggle with fear was the very beginning of his soul's history. It continued
to the end. He had hardly decided to lead the noble life before he came bump against the fact
that he was a physical coward. He felt fear acutely. "Fear," he wrote, "is the foremost and
most persistent of the shepherding powers that keep us in the safe fold, that drive us back
to the beaten track and comfort and--futility. The beginning of all aristocracy is the subjugation
of fear."

At first the struggle was so great that he hated fear without any qualification; he wanted
to abolish it altogether.

"When I was a boy," he writes, "I thought I would conquer fear for good and all, and never
more be troubled by it. But it is not to be done in that way. One might as well dream of having
dinner for the rest of one's life. Each time and always I have found that it has to be conquered
afresh. To this day I fear, little things as well as big things. I have to grapple with some
little dread every day--urge myself.... Just as I have to wash and shave myself every day....
I believe it is so with every one, but it is difficult to be sure; few men who go into dangers
care very much to talk about fear...."

Later Benham found some excuses for fear, came even to dealings with fear. He never, however,
admits that this universal instinct is any better than a kindly but unintelligent nurse from
whose fostering restraints it is man's duty to escape. Discretion, he declared, must remain;
a sense of proportion, an "adequacy of enterprise," but the discretion of an aristocrat is
in his head, a tactical detail, it has nothing to do with this visceral sinking, this ebb in
the nerves. "From top to bottom, the whole spectrum of fear is bad, from panic fear at one
extremity down to that mere disinclination for enterprise, that reluctance and indolence which
is its lowest phase. These are things of the beast, these are for creatures that have a settled
environment, a life history, that spin in a cage of instincts. But man is a beast of that kind
no longer, he has left his habitat, he goes out to limitless living...."

This idea of man going out into new things, leaving securities, habits, customs, leaving his
normal life altogether behind him, underlay all Benham's aristocratic conceptions. And it was
natural that he should consider fear as entirely inconvenient, treat it indeed with ingratitude,
and dwell upon the immense liberations that lie beyond for those who will force themselves
through its remonstrances....

Benham confessed his liability to fear quite freely in these notes. His fear of animals was
ineradicable. He had had an overwhelming dread of bears until he was twelve or thirteen, the
child's irrational dread of impossible bears, bears lurking under the bed and in the evening
shadows. He confesses that even up to manhood he could not cross a field containing cattle
without keeping a wary eye upon them--his bull adventure rather increased than diminished that
disposition--he hated a strange dog at his heels and would manoeuvre himself as soon as possible
out of reach of the teeth or heels of a horse. But the peculiar dread of his childhood was
tigers. Some gaping nursemaid confronted him suddenly with a tiger in a cage in the menagerie
annexe of a circus. "My small mind was overwhelmed."

"I had never thought," White read, "that a tiger was much larger than a St. Bernard dog....
This great creature!... I could not believe any hunter would attack such a monster except by
stealth and with weapons of enormous power....

"He jerked himself to and fro across his cramped, rickety cage and looked over my head with
yellow eyes--at some phantom far away. Every now and then he snarled. The contempt of his detestable
indifference sank deeper and deeper into my soul. I knew that were the cage to vanish I should
stand there motionless, his helpless prey. I knew that were he at large in the same building
with me I should be too terror-stricken to escape him. At the foot of a ladder leading clear
to escape I should have awaited him paralyzed. At last I gripped my nurse's hand. 'Take me
away,' I whispered.

"In my dreams that night he stalked me. I made my frozen flight from him, I slammed a door
on him, and he thrust his paw through a panel as though it had been paper and clawed for me.
The paw got longer and longer....

"I screamed so loudly that my father came up from his study.

"I remember that he took me in his arms.

"'It's only a big sort of pussy, Poff,' he said. 'FELIS TIGRIS. FELIS, you know, means cat.'

"But I knew better. I was in no mood then for my father's insatiable pedagoguery.

"'And my little son mustn't be a coward.'...

"After that I understood I must keep silence and bear my tigers alone.

"For years the thought of that tiger's immensity haunted my mind. In my dreams I cowered before
it a thousand times; in the dusk it rarely failed me. On the landing on my way to bed there
was a patch of darkness beyond a chest that became a lurking horror for me, and sometimes the
door of my father's bedroom would stand open and there was a long buff and crimson-striped
shape, by day indeed an ottoman, but by night--. Could an ottoman crouch and stir in the flicker
of a passing candle? Could an ottoman come after you noiselessly, and so close that you could
not even turn round upon it? No!"

5

When Benham was already seventeen and, as he supposed, hardened against his fear of beasts,
his friend Prothero gave him an account of the killing of an old labouring man by a stallion
which had escaped out of its stable. The beast had careered across a field, leapt a hedge and
come upon its victim suddenly. He had run a few paces and stopped, trying to defend his head
with the horse rearing over him. It beat him down with two swift blows of its fore hoofs, one,
two, lifted him up in its long yellow teeth and worried him as a terrier does a rat--the poor
old wretch was still able to make a bleating sound at that--dropped him, trampled and kicked
him as he tried to crawl away, and went on trampling and battering him until he was no more
than a bloody inhuman bundle of clothes and mire. For more than half an hour this continued,
and then its animal rage was exhausted and it desisted, and went and grazed at a little distance
from this misshapen, hoof-marked, torn, and muddy remnant of a man. No one it seems but a horror-stricken
child knew what was happening....

This picture of human indignity tortured Benham's imagination much more than it tortured the
teller of the tale. It filled him with shame and horror. For three or four years every detail
of that circumstantial narrative seemed unforgettable. A little lapse from perfect health and
the obsession returned. He could not endure the neighing of horses: when he saw horses galloping
in a field with him his heart stood still. And all his life thereafter he hated horses.

6

A different sort of fear that also greatly afflicted Benham was due to a certain clumsiness
and insecurity he felt in giddy and unstable places. There he was more definitely balanced
between the hopelessly rash and the pitifully discreet.

He had written an account of a private struggle between himself and a certain path of planks
and rock edges called the Bisse of Leysin. This happened in his adolescence. He had had a bad
attack of influenza and his doctor had sent him to a little hotel--the only hotel it was in
those days--at Montana in Valais. There, later, when he had picked up his strength, his father
was to join him and take him mountaineering, that second-rate mountaineering which is so dear
to dons and schoolmasters. When the time came he was ready for that, but he had had his experiences.
He had gone through a phase of real cowardice. He was afraid, he confessed, before even he
reached Montana; he was afraid of the steepness of the mountains. He had to drive ten or twelve
miles up and up the mountain-side, a road of innumerable hairpin bends and precipitous banks,
the horse was gaunt and ugly with a disposition to shy, and he confesses he clutched the side
of the vehicle and speculated how he should jump if presently the whole turnout went tumbling
over....

"And afterwards I dreamt dreams of precipices. I made strides over precipices, I fell and fell
with a floating swiftness towards remote valleys, I was assailed by eagles upon a perilous
ledge that crumbled away and left me clinging by my nails to nothing."

The Bisse of Leysin is one of those artificial water-courses which bring water from some distant
source to pastures that have an insufficient or uncertain supply. It is a little better known
than most because of a certain exceptional boldness in its construction; for a distance of
a few score yards it runs supported by iron staples across the front of a sheer precipice,
and for perhaps half a mile it hangs like an eyebrow over nearly or quite vertical walls of
pine-set rock. Beside it, on the outer side of it, runs a path, which becomes an offhand gangway
of planking at the overhanging places. At one corner, which gives the favourite picture postcard
from Montana, the rocks project so sharply above the water that the passenger on the gangway
must crouch down upon the bending plank as he walks. There is no hand-hold at all.

