WHEN DAY IS DONE

by

EDGAR A. GUEST

1921

To S.H.D. A real friend who never knows when day is done

INDEX

Age of Ink, The All for the Best Always Saying "Don't!" Autumn Evenings Aw Gee Whiz!

Bedtime Better Job, The Bob White Book of Memory. The Boy and His Dad, A Boy and His Dog, A
Boy and His Stomach, A Boy and the Flag, The Boy O'Mine Brothers All

Call of the Woods, The "Carry On" Castor Oil Chip on Your Shoulder, The Christmas Carol, A
Christmas Gift for Mother, The Cleaning the Furnace Committee Meetings Contradictin' Joe Cookie
Jar, The Couldn't Live Without You Cure for Weariness, The

Dan McGann Declares Himself Deeds of Anger, The

Family Row, A Father's Wish, A Feller's Hat, A Fellowship of Books, The Forgotten Boyhood

God Made This Day for Me Golf Luck Good Little Boy, The Grate Fire, The Green Apple Time

Happy Man, The He's Taken Out His Papers Home and the Office Homely Man, The How Do You Buy
Your Money?

I Ain't Dead Yet I'd Rather Be a Failure If I Had Youth If This Were All

Joys of Home, The Joys We Miss, The Just a Boy

Kick Under the Table, The

Leader of the Gang Learn to Smile Life Is What We Make It Life's Single Standard Little Girls
Are Best Little Wrangles Lonely Looking Back Loss Is Not So Great, The Lucky Man, The

Ma and the Ouija Board Making of Friends, The Memorial Day Mother's Day My Religion

No Better Land Than This No Children! No Room for Hate Nothing to Laugh At No Use Sighin'

Old Mister Laughter Old Years and New

Pa and the Monthly Bills Peaks of Valor, The Practicing Time Pretending Not to See

Safe at Home Satisfied With Life She Mothered Five She Powders Her Nose Simple' Things, The
Sittin' on the Porch Song of the Builder, The Spoiler, The Summer Dreams

Things You Can't Forget, The Three Me's, The To a Little Girl To an Old Friend Too Big a Price
Trouble Brings Friends True Man, The

Vanished Joy, A

"Wait Till Your Pa Comes Home" We're Dreamers All What Home's Intended For What I Call Living
What Is Success? What Makes an Artist What We Need When Day Is Done When Friends Drop In When
Ma Wants Something New When Mother's Sewing Buttons On When Sorrow Comes When The Minister
Calls When We Play the Fool When We're All Alike When We Understand the Plan Where Children
Play "Where's Mamma?" Wide Outdoors, The Willing Horse, The With Dog and Gun World and Bud, The

When Day Is Done

When day is done and the night slips down, And I've turned my back on the busy town, And come
once more to the welcome gate Where the roses nod and the children wait, I tell myself as I
see them smile That life is good and its tasks worth while.

When day is done and I've come once more To my quiet street and the friendly door, Where the
Mother reigns and the children play And the kettle sings in the old-time way, I throw my coat
on a near-by chair And say farewell to my pack of care.

When day is done, all the hurt and strife And the selfishness and the greed of life, Are left
behind in the busy town; I've ceased to worry about renown Or gold or fame, and I'm just a
dad, Content to be with his girl and lad.

Whatever the day has brought of care, Here love and laughter are mine to share, Here I can
claim what the rich desire-- Rest and peace by a ruddy fire, The welcome words which the loved
ones speak And the soft caress of a baby's cheek.

When day is done and I reach my gate, I come to a realm where there is no hate, For here, whatever
my worth may be, Are those who cling to their faith in me; And with love on guard at my humble
door, I have all that the world has struggled for.

If I Had Youth

If I had youth I'd bid the world to try me;
  I'd answer every challenge to my will.

Looking Back

I might have been rich if I'd wanted the gold instead of the friendships
    I've made.
I might have had fame if I'd sought for renown in the hours when I
    purposely played.
Now I'm standing to-day on the far edge of life, and I'm just looking
    backward to see
What I've done with the years and the days that were mine, and all that
    has happened to me.

I haven't built much of a fortune to leave to those who shall carry my
    name,
And nothing I've done shall entitle me now to a place on the tablets of
    fame.
But I've loved the great sky and its spaces of blue; I've lived with the
    birds and the trees;
I've turned from the splendor of silver and gold to share in such pleasures
    as these.

I've given my time to the children who came; together we've romped and
    we've played,
And I wouldn't exchange the glad hours spent with them for the money that
    I might have made.
I chose to be known and be loved by the few, and was deaf to the plaudits
    of men;
And I'd make the same choice should the chance come to me to live my life
    over again.

I've lived with my friends and I've shared in their joys, known sorrow with
    all of its tears;
I have harvested much from my acres of life, though some say I've
    squandered my years.
For much that is fine has been mine to enjoy, and I think I have lived to
    my best,
And I have no regret, as I'm nearing the end, for the gold that I might
    have possessed.

Though other friends may come and go,
  And some may stoop to treason,
His books remain, through loss or gain,
  And season after season
The faithful friends for every mood,
  His joy and sorrow sharing,
For old time's sake, they'll lighter make
  The burdens he is bearing.

Oh, he has counsel at his side,
  And wisdom for his duty,
And laughter gay for hours of play,
  And tenderness and beauty,
And fellowship divinely rare,
  True friends who never doubt him,
Unchanging love, and God above,
  Who keeps good books about him.

When Sorrow Comes

When sorrow comes, as come it must, In God a man must place his trust. There is no power in
mortal speech The anguish of his soul to reach, No voice, however sweet and low, Can comfort
him or ease the blow.

He cannot from his fellowmen Take strength that will sustain him then. With all that kindly
hands will do, And all that love may offer, too, He must believe throughout the test That God
has willed it for the best.

We who would be his friends are dumb; Words from our lips but feebly come; We feel, as we extend
our hands, That one Power only understands And truly knows the reason why So beautiful a soul
must die.

We realize how helpless then Are all the gifts of mortal men. No words which we have power
to say Can take the sting of grief away-- That Power which marks the sparrow's fall Must comfort
and sustain us all.

When sorrow comes, as come it must, In God a man must place his trust. With all the wealth
which he may own, He cannot meet the test alone, And only he may stand serene Who has a faith
on which to lean.

Golf Luck

As a golfer I'm not one who cops the money;
  I shall always be a member of the dubs;
There are times my style is positively funny;
  I am awkward in my handling of the clubs.
I am not a skillful golfer, nor a plucky,
  But this about myself I proudly say--
When I win a hole by freaky stroke or lucky,
  I never claim I played the shot that way.

There are times, despite my blundering behavior,
  When fortune seems to follow at my heels;
Now and then I play supremely in her favor,
  And she lets me pull the rankest sort of steals;
She'll give to me the friendliest assistance,
  I'll jump a ditch at times when I should not,
I'll top the ball and get a lot of distance--
  But I don't claim that's how I played the shot.

I've hooked a ball when just that hook I needed,
  And wondered how I ever turned the trick;
I've thanked my luck for what a friendly tree did,
  Although my fortune made my rival sick;
Sometimes my shots turn out just as I planned 'em,
  The sort of shots I usually play,
But when up to the cup I chance to land 'em,
  I never claim I played 'em just that way. That you help them but by a crime that you reconciliation looking
through a crime wanted - how can you expect me to find the beautiful "?

He looked at her in despair. "I had to seek reconciliation," he exclaimed;! "Have and what to give,
if not my life?

You forget that I am a deposed minister, rejected of the people rejected by God. "

"How dare you to say this, Gosta! One is you meet with too much love, that's the disaster. Women
and men have loved you. If you test only joking and laughed when you only sang and acted, they
forgiven you everything. Everything that you performed, they found good. And you heard no mention
of the Provost at the grave? Did you hear not what God expects of
you?

The poor man went home and talked of you as their Savior, and you went die in the forest and
wanted.

You are all heroes, Gosta, and you want to leave! "

"How can I help them without money? I have not Sintram promised to die as soon as I would get this
money? "

"We at Ekeby," said the countess, and her voice trembled with anger
and grief, "we knew last night already, where the money was.

Major fox it occurred suddenly, he had the treasure discovered in one night, when he had crept
into the church tower to Glockenerz into a ball to get. "

Gösta closed his eyes and led the bound hands to his chest as if to torment the appease his heart.

"But
that makes no difference with respect to you," continued the countess. »Sintram has tell you
honestly, where is the money, you owe it to him, therefore, die. Oh, how can You only believe
that money is an emergency like ours is able to control! And behold, Gösta, what a wonderful conclusion
for your life!

It will lead you with tears to the last resting place, and you will be praised no less than the
good Captain Lennart, because you have yes your life for the people there given. And I alone
know that you gave it cheerfully; because you owe test remorse and repentance. But now I say unto
thee, that thou shalt live, and thou shalt simply go and do your duty.

"Thou shalt not dreaming of heroic deeds, thou shalt not excel and excite wonder, you shall ensure
that your name is not too much talking in all people. Keep in mind you but well Before you take
back your Sintram given word! You've now acquired a kind of right to die, and in the future you will
have no life probably many more joy. It has been no real clarity between us passed, Gösta: thou hast
not dared me as your to consider wife and I did not know whether it was God's will that brought
us together, or just the result of a morbid extravagance on my part. It was a time pass my desire
to move south, I thought it was too great a happiness for me debt-laden, your wife to be and to
walk by your side through life. But now I want to stay here. If you have the courage to live, I
will stay here. Expected but no joy like this, I will force you to wander the paths of the
heavy duties. You may never by me of the words Joy and hope, expect. All the heartache, all the
misfortune that we caused both have, I will stand as guardians of
our stove.

Can a good heart, which suffered so much is like mine, love? Without tears, without joy I will walk
at your side. Remember you well, Gosta, before you hit your choice! It is the path of repentance,
we wander to be. "

They did not wait for an answer. She waved her companion, and left.

When they entered the forest, The Countess began to cry bitterly,
and cried until they reached Ekeby.

Once there, was she suddenly remembered that she had forgotten to
Jan Hoek, the soldier on friendly things than to talk about the war.

In the cottage was still there when she was gone.

"Lord God, to Thee glory and honor," said the old soldier suddenly.

Everyone looked at him. He had got up and looked eagerly around.

"Badness - it was all evil," he said. "Everything I've seen since I opened my eyes was wickedness.
Evil men, evil women, hatred and anger in Forest and field. But she is good. A good man has
stayed in my house. Now if I just sitting here, I will remember them. On the forest trails,
it be near me. "

He bent over Gösta down, broke his bonds and raised him. Then he took solemn his hand.

"Abandoned by God," he said, nodding, "that's the thing!

But now you're not more, and I am not since she has stayed in my house. She is good. "

The next day the old Jan Hoek came to the district judge Scharling. "I want my cross take, "he said.
"I've been a bad man, so I've got bad sons."

And he asked if he could come instead of his son in jail. But that could be of course, do not
do.

The best of the old stories but is one that is about how his son accompanied,
in addition to the prison van herwanderte, slept in front of his cell
and not from more until he had served his sentence.

The time will probably also its narrator.

Margaret Celsing

In the days before Christmas, the major's wife came down to the Löfsee, but only on Christmas
Eve they reached Ekeby. Throughout the journey she was sick and she had pneumonia and high fever,
but we had never seen gay and never had friendly words heard of her.

The daughter of the pastor of Broby, who had been with her since October,
was sitting next to her in the carriage and wanted to speed up the
journey, but she could not stop it To prevent to stop the horses and
everyone who came along, shouting at the approaching carriage, to
ask for news.

"How are you here on Löfsee" asked the Baroness.

"It does us good," was the reply. "It's better times to come. The great pastor and his Mrs. help us
all. "

"Now comes" a good time, "answered another. »Sintram is gone. The pensioners on Ekeby have started
work. The money of the Cure of Broby is found in the church tower been. There is so much that
Ekeby shine and honor can be re-erected.

And it remains enough to provide bread to the hungry. "

"Our old pastor is new strength and revived," said a third.

"Every Sunday, he speaks to us of God upon the return of the empire. Who can still horny to sin?
The reign of the good is breaking. "

And the major's wife drove slowly and asked everyone she met: "How are you now? Does your Löfsee
here at the lack of anything? "

And the fever heat and the stinging pain in the left breast when she answered her: "Here are two good
and rich women: Marianne Sinclaire and Anna Stjarnhok that help Gösta
Berling, going from house to house and to see that no one starves.

And the spirits boiler now engulfs the grain of everything. "

It was as if the major's wife was sitting there in the sled and held a long service. You had
come to a holy land. She looked old, wrinkled faces idealized, if they from the time said,
had come. The patients forgot their pain, to the day to praise the
joy.

"We want to be like all the good Captain Lenny," she said. "We want all to be good; we want to
think well of all, we want to do no harm. This is the return the
kingdom of God speed. "

She found all animated by the same spirit. On the manors were fed the most free. All the work
had to do were to run it now, and a seven iron works the major's wife was the activity in full
swing. She had never felt better than during she was sitting here and the cold air into your aching
left breast.

She could in no Homestead pass by without stopping and keep asking.

"Now all is well," was the reply. "Here there was great need, but the Lords of Ekeby help us.
The major's wife will wonder what there is anything running. The Mühlwerk is almost finished, and
the forge is in full swing. "

The need and the heart-shattering events they had turned all of them. Oh, it would not last
long! But it was good to return to a country where one another helped and all the good wanted. The
major's wife felt that she could forgive the pensioners, and she
thanked God for it.

Anna Lisa, "she said," I sit here and think old person, I am already on the way to heaven
of the blessed are. "

When they finally reached Ekeby and hurried out the pensioners, to help her from the carriage,
they could hardly recognize her, for she was as gentle and kind as
their own young countess.

The older, they had known when she was young, whispered to each other to: "This is not the major's
wife of Ekeby - this is Margaret Celsing that recurs."

The joy of the Cavaliers, as they saw it come back so mild, so without any thoughts of revenge, was
great, but they turned to grief when they saw how sick she was. She had be immediately carried into
the bedroom and into bed. On the threshold she turned around and said to them: "God's wind
storm has passed over the land, God's wind storm! Now I know that
it was all for the best.

"Then shut the door of her hospital room, and they were no longer
visible.

If somebody has to die, so you have to say to him always as much.

The words force themselves on the lips, knowing that someone is in the room next door, whose
ear for good soon should close. "Oh, my friend, my friend," would you like to say, "can you
forgive? Can you believe after all that I have loved you? As I could but you so much grief prepare,
as we wandered here together?

Oh, my friend did, thanks for all the joy you've given me, "Such words would like to talk to and
much more.

The major's wife lay in a burning fever, and the voices of the Cavaliers, they could not . Reach
Should not she ever learn how they had worked, as her work again
were recorded and saved the honor of Ekeby?

If they never experience the?

Soon after, the Cavaliers went down to the forge.

There has not worked. But they threw fresh coals and new hot metal
in the furnace and prepared everything to melt.

Do not cried the blacksmith, who had gone home to celebrate Christmas,
but work itself.

Could the major's only live until the hammer came into action, should there of their cause even
talk with her!

It was evening, and night fell on their work. Several of them were thinking how wonderful it would
be so, it went back to celebrate Christmas in the forge.

The large Kevenhiiller scholars, who had led the reconstruction of the mill and the forge, and
Christian Bergh, a strong captain stood at the stove and supervised
melting.

Gosta and Julius carrying coals.

Of the remainder, some were sitting on the anvil in the amount drawn under the hammer others
had settled on coal carts and piles of iron rod.

Lowenberg, the old mystic, spoke to Eberhard, the philosopher, who sat beside him on the anvil.

"In
this very night Sintram," he said.

"Why just at night?" Said Eberhard.

"Do you remember well the contract that we signed a year ago with him?

Now, we did nothing, which would not be excessively cavalier, so he has lost. "

"If you believe in something, so you know probably that we have done many things, what standard
was not cavalier. First, we have not helped the major's wife, secondly, we began to work on,
third, it was not very gentlemanly terms that Gösta not committed suicide, as he had promised.
"

"I've thought about it," said Lowenberg, "but I think you're wrong there. It was forbidden for
us to deal with petty thoughts to our own advantage, but not such as love or the honor or our own
salvation demands it of us. I think Sintram has lost. Yes, I know. I have heard his sleigh bells
all night, but it was not a real sleigh bells, we will have him here soon. "

And the little old man sat and stared at the open door of the forge and the small Bit of blue sky
with the individual stars, which was visible through it. Suddenly jumped on it.

"You see him," he whispered. "Here he comes sneaking! Do you see him not in the door? "

       

"I do not see anything," replied Eberhard, "you're tired, that's all."

"I saw him clearly against the bright sky. He had his long wolf's clothing, and his Fur cap on.
Now he is there in the dark, and I can not see him. So now he sits by the stove. He is close
to Christian Bergh, but Christian did not seem to see.

Now he bends down and throws something into the fire. Hu! How disgusting it looks. Take you
back there in eight! "

At the same moment there was a bang, and the sparks from the furnace of the forge and their assistants.
But there was no damage.

"He wants revenge," whispered a mountain lion.

"No, you are too great," exclaimed Eberhard, "of these things you ought nigh have enough! "

"So anything you can think and do, but what is it? Do not you see it is there on the bar and smiles
on us. But, as I live, I really think he the hammer triggers! "

He jumped up and tore Eberhard with it. Immediately thereafter, the hammer struck on booming the anvil
down. It was only a cramp, which had come loose, Eberhard and mountain lions but only with
great difficulty escaped death.

"You see clearly that he has no power over us," triumphed Lowenberg;? Revenge "but will he, that's
clear. "

And he called to Gosta Berling: "You go up to the women, Gosta. Perhaps it shows itself including.
They are not as accustomed as I like to see, they could easily be afraid. And beware, Gosta, for
he is not you weighed, and perhaps he power of the vow for you. Who knows? "

Later it was learned that mountain lions had been right and that Sintram died on Christmas Eve
was.

Some wanted to know that he had hanged himself in prison.

Others believed that the servants of justice would have it completely
in secret by put to death, for the investigation seemed to fail in
his favor, and it was so not him again about the rule to have won
the Harde.

Still others claimed that a certain dark lord be with a black carriage with black horses came
to him to get out of prison and Lowenberg was not the only one who saw him on Christmas Eve. Also, he
was seen in Fors and Ulrika Dill former dreams.

More than one said that he would have shown him to Ulrika Dillner
his body to the cemetery Broer convicted.

They also let the evil servants of Fors distribute and introduced
a Christian government.

Now it haunts no longer there.

* * * * *

It is said that before Gosta Berling reached the court, a stranger had arrived there and had
submitted a letter to the major's wife. No one knew the messenger, but the letter was carried
into and placed next to the patient on the table. Immediately afterwards came an unexpected Improvement
is apparent, the fever subsided, the pain decreased, and she felt well enough to read the letter.

The
old man wanted only too happy to believe that this improvement the influence of the dark forces
was due. Sintram and his friends could have advantage of it if the
major's wife read this letter.

It was written with blood on black paper document. The pensioners
would it probably have recognized: it was written in the last Christmas
night in the forge to Ekeby been.

And the major's wife was there
now and read that they, seeing she was a witch and cavalier souls
sent to hell, had condemned, that I may lose Ekeby. This and similar
follies las them. She looked at the date and signatures, and found
at Göstas with the following remark: "For since the major's wife,
my weakness has taken advantage of me by honest work to hold and to
keep me as a minor at Ekeby praise since they led me to Ebba Dohna
murderer made by told her that I am a deposed priest, I'll sign. "

The
major's wife slowly folded up the paper and put it in the envelope,
then it was motionless, thinking about what she had just learned.
She realized with bitter Pain, that this was the opinion of the people
of her. A witch and a sorceress, she was for all those to whom it
rightly done, which they had been working and bread. This was her
reward; this would be their reputation. An adulteress she could trust
nothing else.

But what she set out from this ignorant? They had been
away from her yet. But this poor Cavaliers, who had lived at their
mercy and they just knew they also believed it or did it as if they
believed it to have a pretext under which they Ekeby could seize.
Her thoughts quickly raced through her brain fever-hot, wild Anger,
lust for revenge burning in her eyes. She left the pastor's daughter
from Broby, the Countess Elisabeth in her wake, a messenger to the
estate manager and Högfors Inspector send. She wanted to make her
will.

Again she lay there and pondered. Her eyebrows drew together,
her face contorted weird pain.

You are very ill, Mrs. Ebba, "the
countess said softly.

"That I'm sicker than ever before."

There
once was a pause, but the major's wife said in a hard, sharp voice:
"It's strange to think that even Countess Elizabeth, who is loved
by all, an adulteress is. "

The young countess shuddered.

"Yes,
but not in deeds, but in thought and desires, and that makes no difference."

"I
know, Mrs. Major's wife."

"And yet you are now become happy. You
can use the one you love, have no sin; the black ghost will not stand
between you when you met each other now. Your you can also belong
to the world. You can walk through life side by side. "

"Oh, Madam
Baroness."

"How can you dare to stay with him? Called" the old woman
with increasing vehemence. "Repent! Good time doing penance! Journey
home to your father and your mother, before they come and curse. Do
you dare to call Gosta Berling your husband? Go to him! I will Ekeby
give him, I will give him power and glory - you dare to share that
with him? Dare you accept it, happiness and honor? I ventured. Do
you remember how it happened to me? Remember you up to the Christmas
feast at Ekeby? Do you remember the prison in Munkerud? "

"Oh, Mrs.
Major's wife, sinner, here we go side by side with no luck. I go along
here and ensure that the happiness is not indigenous to our stove is.

I leave it free for him to choose The tools of life which he shall use, Brush, pen or chisel,
lathe or wrench, The desk of commerce or the bench, And pray that when he makes his choice
In each day's task he shall rejoice. I know somewhere there is a need For him to labor and
succeed; Somewhere, if he be clean and true, Loyal and honest through and through, He shall
be fit for any clan, And so I hope he'll be a man.

I would not build my hope or ask That he shall do some certain task, Or bend his will to suit
my own; He shall select his post alone. Life needs a thousand kinds of men, Toilers and masters
of the pen, Doctors, mechanics, sturdy hands To do the work which it commands, And wheresoe'er
he's pleased to go, Honor and triumph he may know. Therefore I must do all I can To teach my
boy to be a man.

No Better Land Than This

If I knew a better country in this glorious world today Where a man's work hours are shorter
and he's drawing bigger pay, If the Briton or the Frenchman had an easier life than mine, I'd
pack my goods this minute and I'd sail across the brine. But I notice when an alien wants a
land of hope and cheer, And a future for his children, he comes out and settles here.

Here's the glorious land of Freedom! Here's the milk and honey goal For the peasant out of
Russia, for the long-subjected Pole. It is here the sons of Italy and men of Austria turn For
the comfort of their bodies and the wages they can earn. And with all that men complain of,
and with all that goes amiss, There's no happier, better nation on the world's broad face than
this.

So I'm thinking when I listen to the wails of discontent, And some foreign disbeliever spreads
his evil sentiment, That the breed of hate and envy that is sowing sin and shame In this glorious
land of Freedom should go back from whence it came. And I hold it is the duty, rich or poor,
of every man Who enjoys this country's bounty to be all American.

A Boy and His Dog

A boy and his dog make a glorious pair: No better friendship is found anywhere, For they talk
and they walk and they run and they play, And they have their deep secrets for many a day;
And that boy has a comrade who thinks and who feels, Who walks down the road with a dog at
his heels.

He may go where he will and his dog will be there, May revel in mud and his dog will not care;
Faithful he'll stay for the slightest command And bark with delight at the touch of his hand;
Oh, he owns a treasure which nobody steals, Who walks down the road with a dog at his heels.

No other can lure him away from his side; He's proof against riches and station and pride;
Fine dress does not charm him, and flattery's breath Is lost on the dog, for he's faithful
to death; He sees the great soul which the body conceals-- Oh, it's great to be young with
a dog at your heels!

"Wait Till Your Pa Comes Home"

"Wait till your Pa comes home!" Oh, dear! What a dreadful threat for a boy to hear. Yet never
a boy of three or four But has heard it a thousand times or more. "Wait till your Pa comes
home, my lad, And see what you'll get for being bad,

"Wait till your Pa comes home, you scamp! You've soiled the walls with your fingers damp, You've
tracked the floor with your muddy feet And fought with the boy across the street; You've torn
your clothes and you look a sight! But wait till your Pa comes home to-night."

Now since I'm the Pa of that daily threat Which paints me as black as a thing of jet I rise
in protest right here to say I won't be used in so fierce a way; No child of mine in the evening
gloam Shall be afraid of my coming home.

I want him waiting for me at night With eyes that glisten with real delight; When it's right
that punished my boy should be I don't want the job postponed for me; I want to come home to
a round of joy And not to frighten a little boy. Yet that is ever his Mother's way Of saving
herself from a bitter day; And well she knows in the evening gloam He won't be hurt when his
Pa comes home.

Nothing to Laugh At

'Taint nothin' to laugh at as I can see! If you'd been stung by a bumble bee, An' your nose
wuz swelled an' it smarted, too, You wouldn't want people to laugh at you. If you had a lump
that wuz full of fire, Like you'd been touched by a red hot wire, An' your nose spread out
like a load of hay, You wouldn't want strangers who come your way To ask you to let 'em see
the place An' laugh at you right before your face.

What's funny about it, I'd like to know? It isn't a joke to be hurted so! An' how wuz I ever
on earth to tell 'At the pretty flower which I stooped to smell In our backyard wuz the very
one Which a bee wuz busily working on? An' jus' as I got my nose down there, He lifted his
foot an' kicked for fair, An' he planted his stinger right into me, But it's nothin' to laugh
at as I can see.

I let out a yell an' my Maw came out To see what the trouble wuz all about. She says from my
shriek she wuz sure 'at I Had been struck by a motor car passin' by; But when she found what
the matter wuz She laughed just like ever'body does An' she made me stand while she poked about
To pull his turrible stinger out. An' my Pa laughed, too, when he looked at me, But it's nothin'
to laugh at, as I can see.

My Maw put witch hazel on the spot To take down the swellin' but it has not. It seems to git
bigger as time goes by An' I can't see good out o' this one eye; An' it hurts clean down to
my very toes Whenever I've got to blow my nose. An' all I can say is when this gits well There
ain't any flowers I'll stoop to smell. I'm through disturbin' a bumble bee, But it's nothin'
to laugh at, as I can see.

No Room for Hate

We have room for the man with an honest dream, With his heart on fire and his eyes agleam;
We have room for the man with a purpose true, Who comes to our shores to start life anew, But
we haven't an inch of space for him Who comes to plot against life and limb.

We have room for the man who will learn our ways, Who will stand by our Flag in its troubled
days; We have room for the man who will till the soil, Who will give his hands to a fair day's
toil, But we haven't an inch of space to spare For the breeder of hatred and black despair.

We have room for the man who will neighbor here, Who will keep his hands and his conscience
clear; We have room for the man who'll respect our laws And pledge himself to our country's
cause, But we haven't an inch of land to give To the alien breed that will alien live.

Against the vicious we bar the gate! This is no breeding ground for hate. This is the land
of the brave and free And such we pray it shall always be. We have room for men who will love
our flag, But none for the friends of the scarlet rag.

The Boy and the Flag

I want my boy to love his home,
  His Mother, yes, and me:
I want him, wheresoe'er he'll roam,
  With us in thought to be.
I want him to love what is fine,
  Nor let his standards drag,
But, Oh! I want that boy of mine
  To love his country's flag!

I want him when he older grows
  To love all things of earth;
And Oh! I want him, when he knows,
  To choose the things of worth.
I want him to the heights to climb
  Nor let ambition lag;
But, Oh! I want him all the time
  To love his country's flag.

I want my boy to know the best,
  I want him to be great;
I want him in Life's distant West,
  Prepared for any fate.
I want him to be simple, too,
  Though clever, ne'er to brag,
But, Oh! I want him, through and through,
  To love his country's flag.

I want my boy to be a man,
  And yet, in distant years,
I pray that he'll have eyes that can
  Not quite keep back the tears
When, coming from some foreign shore
  And alien scenes that fag,
Borne on its native breeze, once more
  He sees his country's flag.

Too Big a Price

"They say my boy is bad," she said to me,
  A tired old woman, thin and very frail.
"They caught him robbing railroad cars, an' he
  Must spend from five to seven years in jail.
His Pa an' I had hoped so much for him.
  He was so pretty as a little boy--"
Her eyes with tears grew very wet an' dim--
  "Now nothing that we've got can give us joy!"

"What is it that you own?" I questioned then.
  "The house we live in," slowly she replied,
"Two other houses worked an' slaved for, when
  The boy was but a youngster at my side,
Some bonds we took the time he went to war;
  I've spent my strength against the want of age--
We've always had some end to struggle for.
  Now shame an' ruin smear the final page.

"His Pa has been a steady-goin' man,
  Worked day an' night an' overtime as well;
He's lived an' dreamed an' sweated to his plan
  To own the house an' profit should we sell;
He never drank nor played much cards at night,
  He's been a worker since our wedding day,
He's lived his life to what he knows is right,
  An' why should son of his now go astray?

"I've rubbed my years away on scrubbing boards,
  Washed floors for women that owned less than we,
An' while they played the ladies an' the lords,
  We smiled an' dreamed of happiness to be."
"And all this time where was the boy?" said I.
  "Out somewhere playin'!"--Like a rifle shot
The thought went home--"My God!" she gave a cry,
  "We paid too big a price for what we got."

Always Saying "Don't!"

Folks are queer as they can be, Always sayin' "don't" to me; Don't do this an' don't do that.
Don't annoy or tease the cat, Don't throw stones, or climb a tree, Don't play in the road.
Oh, Gee! Seems like when I want to play "Don't" is all that they can say.

If I start to have some fun, Someone hollers, "Don't you run!" If I want to go an' play Mother
says: "Don't go away." Seems my life is filled clear through With the things I mustn't do.
All the time I'm shouted at: "No, no, Sonny, don't do that!"

Don't shout so an' make a noise, Don't play with those naughty boys, Don't eat candy, don't
eat pie, Don't you laugh and don't you cry, Don't stand up and don't you fall, Don't do anything
at all. Seems to me both night an' day "Don't" is all that they can say.

When I'm older in my ways An' have little boys to raise, Bet I'll let 'em race an' run An'
not always spoil their fun; I'll not tell 'em all along Everything they like is wrong, An'
you bet your life I won't All the time be sayin' "don't."

Boy O' Mine

Boy o' mine, boy o' mine, this is my prayer for you, This is my dream and my thought and my
care for you: Strong be the spirit which dwells in the breast of you, Never may folly or shame
get the best of you; You shall be tempted in fancied security, But make no choice that is stained
with impurity.

Boy o' mine, boy o' mine, time shall command of you Thought from the brain of you, work from
the hand of you; Voices of pleasure shall whisper and call to you, Luring you far from the
hard tasks that fall to you; Then as you're meeting life's bitterest test of men, God grant
you strength to be true as the best of men.

Boy o' mine, boy o' mine, singing your way along, Cling to your laughter and cheerfully play
along; Kind to your neighbor be, offer your hand to him, You shall grow great as your heart
shall expand to him; But when for victory sweet you are fighting there, Know that your record
of life you are writing there.

Boy o' mine, boy o' mine, this is my prayer for you; Never may shame pen one line of despair
for you; Never may conquest or glory mean all to you; Cling to your honor whatever shall fall
to you; Rather than victory, rather than fame to you, Choose to be true and let nothing bring
shame to you. Her
story had more epic river worked its dialogue and dramatic moments not so strongly. Mitterwurzer
method does have its advantages, especially the modern Fairy tales over. It's like a diamond jumps
from its socket and now to Bodies that were once covered with twinkling begins. The real folk
tales, such as the "One Man's Humble Quest to learn fear," defends himself maybe a little
of this Treatment, because the story is without subjective ingredient. A more cheerful tone
goes through This delightful tale that is equal struck in the beginning. "They always say:
it creeps me, it makes me shudder! I shudder not. This promises to be an art of which I want none
understand that. "Behind the Laughter seems, however, to salvage a proud nationalism, can say with
Bismarck: "We are afraid of nobody," Yes, behind these joking! Fairy tale, we see the Germans
as they enter the fighting in world history, not fighting only out of necessity, but also
for the pleasure of fighting, so they foreign supporters in Byzantium and Rome And things are
still colorful in their doublets, loyal and quick-witted, in the courts the Vatican's stand.

The
German legend, who herself composed - the folk tales - are very old be national property.
The characters that appear in it to be pagan as run-down Considered
gods, who were hiding from persecution in the Christian fairy tale
costume.

There is probably what is in the German fairy tale, which conform to this view, for example,
our loveable Sleeping Beauty. Odin, who rides through the rays gluten to the sleeping awakening
sun, Siegfried, who comes through the flickering flames to free Brynhild, the young prince who
breaks through the hedges to get Sleeping Beauty, they are probably one and the same figure, first
as a God, then as a hero, most recently as Prince Charming. Thus, Now every German man who acquires
a wife, as God, as a hero than Prince Charming feel. But few of the German fairy tale must be
so convenient as Sleeping Beauty, and even the national origins of the German fairy tale is questionable,
if the same story, as the German, distributed under various climates and nationalities found.
One can say that proves nothing against the national origins of the German fairy tale. At the
foot of the Himalayas on a daisy flowers in a Tale of the Vienna Woods another Daisies, which both
know about each other. Or, more soberly: similar emergencies generate similar ideas and inventions,
similar moods bring similar seals forth. But the similarity is accumulated to the extent that
one had to think of borrowing, and a German scientist (Theodor Benfey) made the remarkable discovery
that most Part of our Western fairy tales and short stories in India is invented, where they
are on various detours by Mongols, Jews and Islamists have been zugemittelt. So we live also on this
side of the intellectual inventions of the Orient. And the last, that seals itself is dense,
in science, an almost-lost fairy tale. Anywhere where something significant is done, be it
in poetry, in science, in technology, everywhere lies behind a single head, which you certainly
do not always see. Even the Language, in its origin, the darkest area, is certainly inspired
by individual handles People have been brought forward, with the women in whose mouth the
speech as easy and smooth is by no means be ruled out. As the controversy over the author of the German
folk epics was in vogue, Ludwig Uhland has written in his grace so profound words: "The whole
Mass (of people) is still, like a train of migrant birds in the process of poetic beat, and the single
fly alternately at the top. "

Friedrich Mitterwurzer, the artist has always inspiring us with his tales lectures this pleasant byways
brought, of which we welcome him returning once again grateful.

(On December 25, 1895)

Mirror Images

  It was on a bright summer morning, as a crowd pulling over fellow
citizens who just the terms were to go to the village in order to
cultivate their vineyards, at one of the Street lying land home heard
an unusual noise, in which she uttered the sharp Call of a male voice
distinction, where a clinking sound, like from flying apart Glass
shards caused, succeeded.

They stood silent for a time affected by it against the windows of
the otherwise quiet house looked up, and went on shaking his head,
as the noise had subsided.

In the house, which came back to a vast orchard, Hanns lived scourge Reiter, a well-off young
scholar who, from a low propensity to Knowledge of things inspired by science to their own satisfaction
used. Before barely a half years he had buried his wife, and lived with him his two children and a sister
in law, which provided him with the budget. On that summer morning it was in this small family to an
unusual performances come. They participated in the Book Room, the same time served as a dining
room, a breakfast. As a scourge rider with flattering Words to his younger daughter turned
and looked up from his steaming cup, remarked it on the wall piers to a large Venetian mirror,
which his sister- Birthdays has brought to its present, and for what he be in this moment own
image with sharp clarity against waved. As soon as he had seen the reflection, as a fierce
pain contorted his features, he jumped up quickly, and by the kind his sister-intentioned idea
with violent words, cursing, he went to the mirror and hit him with a clenched fist in two.
The sharp blow to the fragile fabric Zorn had his spirits somewhat derived, although it mirrored
the hundredfold his image in the herabklirrenden broken glass as a personal contempt felt. The
two children had taken refuge in a corner and could, by participating in the hands conceived,
wept openly. The sister-in-first paralyzed by fear, brought now a sink with water brought about,
in which riders scourge of many small put his wounds bleeding hand. He looked with some pleasure
the blood drip out of the hand, for he felt his chest how relieved by bloodletting. A muffled
stuffiness was spread over the room, silent wept, the children, a not quite mastered sobs revealed
the internal movement the poor sister in law, and in between came the ticking of the stoic and
Schwarzwälderuhr notifying her the full hour cuckoo. The memory of the time and daily routine
led the agitated by a violent incident spirits in the everyday rut gradually returned. Scourge
rider while still remaining silent, but when the caring sister the broken glass from his hand
away and had created an association, he felt pushed it to a few apologetic words. You may excuse
his violence; But you know that he himself could not endure that he try to escape the and that it might
make him impossible with this attitude a joy to his image in front of to see. He hated his own moves,
they were profoundly repugnant to him, if he once even accidentally catch sight of him the day
and the week is ruined. The mirror is therefore his greatest enemy ... After these words he is
not without self-discipline and a certain shame had uttered more than talk, he retired to
his study and was, despite the urgent pleas of his children, who knocked on his door repeatedly,
On this day never been seen.

Like all the exaggerated emotions and states of men, was also the self-hatred and based on the
self-torture of our wonderful philosophers a very human motive. When he was courting, he visited
the house of a widow who had two daughters, which he actually the younger, his present-law,
loved. The older but took advantage of love the mood of the young man knew him by a hundred
favors and considerations to flatter, and the younger daughter, who had only a small degree the
gift of their feelings to borrow the right word, he let lie aside, although he as a pain felt
closer to her can not. Since the mother completely, like nearly all mothers, tear yourself away
from the pedantry could not marry their daughters to the age group, came about a marriage that
complied with the intentions of the young husband, not really. Once he remembered, he had to admit
honestly that if he brought home the older, but his heart really belonged to the younger. But
once claimed the existing state his imperious rights.

It was found in the basically good disposition of the young woman deal fairly, and ceased altogether
when the children's blessing and the loving mother one after two well-crafted girl in the arms
of the happy husband seemed to put a be satisfied secured future. Unfortunately, the woman
began to sicken. A breast disease as they are in delicate, slender blondes often adjusts the
woman consumed without that they seemed to suffer sensitive, slowly. Was not without emotion, the
young widower to her grave, because the habit of living together is a band that is sometimes
more holds as the most violent love. Mathilde was dead, and Leonie, the younger sister, took
over the task of caring for the children and to run the house. Rapidly darkened widower the image
of his late wife, because she saw through the presence and active intervention does not could remember
more of themselves and had a more intimate feeling she never married, whereas took advantage
of the never discontinued, just the old heart to Leonie reassert rights adjourned. He himself
must feel in the presence of his children. The younger daughter, black, with fiery eyes as Leonie,
his decisive favorite to which he all his tenderness transferred, the elder, however, like him
on trains, with blond hair and blue eyes the mother, he regarded with a certain reluctance
that he could defeat hard. But then he took the girl by the head, pressed her a fierce kiss on
the mouth and made the poor child in silent apology. But as he of the beloved sister-in towards
the innermost bound was in vain for words and struggled to express her feelings are, and it
also itself, a closed, bashful nature, his nature, and omission only with the eyes pursued and
expressed their love in the only other working people, are attracted to the young scholar himself
and his books back, with those trained in him an aversion to himself, had made in the smashing
of the mirror so violent air. He joined mentally that a lot of common time direction to the
right in the thirst of our day and quite unlike the usual cheeky advance their own personal
love, in the slope like to depress one's self and as something to be insignificant and meaningless
to dissolve in the general flow of things. He paid homage to this great Vanity of a self bespiegelnden
self-destruction. He passionately pursued the desire to annihilate his ego to destroy his personality.
Our Western Means of self-destruction not satisfied, he called on all willing now bubbling Resources
of the Indian thought to bring about his service. The grandiose Vedantalehre in nature, those
caused by the fear of eternal rebirth of life, the oppressive weight of human life by mere
self-knowledge and disenchantment of the world of puzzle back shaken, struck in his thinking mighty
waves. He could dive down into this blissful nothingness that is supposed to be everything.

But the genius of humanity is smiling upon such extravagances of thought and Will. Playing it
will resolve the spasm, and the gracious smile of a girl has already some philosophers, who
held the woman for the embodiment of evil, to a milder view converted. Hanns scourge rider, rural philosopher
of pessimism, was also on this other way out and an unfortunate one lucky man His sister in
law Leonard found the means to indicate to him that she loved him, and Hanns it came half-way
contrary. For her next birthday he gave her a mirror. He was again Pleasure in his face, since
it pleased a dear girl, and this level trough not. As the Christmas season approached, good spirits
darted through the house. On Christmas Eve came the scourge Lieblingstöchterchen rider up with
red cheeks from the garden and told her father, giving him enough to shoot a cherry tree,
"Look, Father, I have a dead branch broken from the tree, and as I was bent, he was green on the inside
... "" Oh, my child, "exclaimed the happy father," I thank you for your good news. "Then He took
the child and hugged and kissed it, but the blonde sister, the frightened Child, he embraced with overflowing
tenderness. Evening, however, led the converted Leonie Hanns in the mess of splendor filled
rooms. She held her hands to upon entering Eyes and let him free only when they stood before
a large Venetian mirror. The The Christmas tree lights were burning them against it, but was
surprised more beautiful he, when he saw the beloved girls, cheek
to cheek with him, look out from the glass.

The two children climbed up on them and finished with their love faces the lovely Reflection.
"I'm not so bad," said Hanns smiling Leonie and pressed a hot kiss on the mouth. The cuckoo
clock but in the Black Forest called a happy hour.

(On December 25, 1887)

The Oberammergau nativity play


The good man buys it from day to day by giving the best he can; He coins his strength for his
children's needs and lives to a simple plan, And he keeps some time for the home he makes and
some for his fellowman.

But some men buy it with women's tears, and some with a blasted name;
And some will barter the joy of life for the fortune they hope to claim;
And some are so mad for the clink of gold that they buy it with deeds of
    shame.

How do you buy your money? For money demands its price, And some men think when they purchase
coin that they mustn't be over-nice-- But beware of the man who would sell you gold at a shameful
sacrifice!

Mother's Day

Let every day be Mother's Day!
Make roses grow along her way
  And beauty everywhere.
Oh, never let her eyes be wet
With tears of sorrow or regret,
  And never cease to care!
Come, grown up children, and rejoice
That you can hear your mother's voice!

A day for her! For you she gave
Long years of love and service brave;
  For you her youth was spent.
There was no weight of hurt or care
Too heavy for her strength to bear;
  She followed where you went;
Her courage and her love sublime
You could depend on all the time.

No day or night she set apart
On which to open wide her heart
  And welcome you within;
There was no hour you would not be
First in her thought and memory,
  Though you were black as sin!
Though skies were gray or skies were blue
Not once has she forgotten you.

Let every day be Mother's Day!
With love and roses strew her way,
  And smiles of joy and pride!
Come, grown up children, to the knee
Where long ago you used to be
  And never turn aside;
Oh, never let her eyes grow wet
With tears, because her babes forget.

When We Play the Fool

Last night I stood in a tawdry place And watched the ways of the human race. I looked at a
party of shrieking girls Piled on a table that whirls and whirls, And saw them thrown in a
tangled heap, Sprawling and squirming and several deep. And unto the wife who was standing
by, "These are all angels to be," said I.

I followed the ways of the merry throng And heard the laughter and mirth and song. Into a barrel
which turned and swayed Men and women a journey made, And tumbling together they seemed to
be Like so many porpoises out at sea-- Men and women who'd worked all day, Eagerly seeking
a chance to play.

"What do you make of it all?" she said. I answered: "The dead are a long time dead, And care
is bitter and duty stern, And each must weep when it comes his turn. And all grow weary and
long for play, So here is laughter to end the day. Foolish? Oh, yes, it is that," said I, "But
better the laugh than the dreary sigh.

"Now look at us here, for we're like them, too, And many the foolish things we do. We often
grow silly and seek a smile In a thousand ways that are not worth while; Yet after the mirth
and the jest are through, We shall all be judged by the deeds we do, And God shall forget on
the Judgment Day The fools we were in our hours of play."

What Makes an Artist

We got to talking art one day, discussing in a general way How some can match with brush and
paint the glory of a tree, And some in stone can catch the things of which the dreamy poet
sings, While others seem to have no way to tell the joys they see.

Old Blake had sat in silence there and let each one of us declare Our notions of what's known
as art, until he'd heard us through; And then said he: "It seems to me that any man, whoe'er
he be, Becomes an artist by the good he daily tries to do.

"He need not write the books men read to be an artist. No, indeed! He need not work with paint
and brush to show his love of art; Who does a kindly deed to-day and helps another on his way,
Has painted beauty on a face and played the poet's part.

"Though some of us cannot express our inmost thoughts of loveliness, We prove we love the beautiful
by how we act and live; The poet singing of a tree no greater poet is than he Who finds it
in his heart some care unto a tree to give.

"Though he who works in marble stone the name of artist here may own, No less an artist is
the man who guards his children well; 'Tis art to love the fine and true; by what we are and
what we do How much we love life's nobler things to all the world we tell."

She Powders Her Nose

A woman is queer, there's no doubt about that. She hates to be thin and she hates to be fat;
One minute it's laughter, the next it's a cry-- You can't understand her, however you try;
But there's one thing about her which everyone knows-- A woman's not dressed till she powders
her nose.

You never can tell what a woman will say; She's a law to herself every hour of the day. It
keeps a man guessing to know what to do, And mostly he's wrong when his guessing is through;
But this you can bet on, wherever she goes She'll find some occasion to powder her nose.

I've studied the sex for a number of years; I've watched her in laughter and seen her in tears;
On her ways and her whims I have pondered a lot, To find what will please her and just what
will not; But all that I've learned from the start to the close Is that sooner or later she'll
powder her nose.

At church or a ball game, a dance or a show, There's one thing about her I know that I know--
At weddings or funerals, dinners of taste, You can bet that her hand will dive into her waist,
And every few minutes she'll strike up a pose, And the whole world must wait till she powders
her nose.

The Chip on Your Shoulder

You'll learn when you're older that chip on your shoulder
  Which you dare other boys to upset,
And stand up and fight for and struggle and smite for,
  Has caused you much shame and regret.
When Time, life's adviser, has made you much wiser,
  You won't be so quick with the blow;
You won't be so willing to fight for a shilling,
  And change a good friend to a foe.

You won't be a sticker for trifles, and bicker
  And quarrel for nothing at all;
You'll grow to be kinder, more thoughtful and blinder
  To faults which are petty and small.
You won't take the trouble your two fists to double
  When someone your pride may offend;
When with rage now you bristle you'll smile or you'll whistle,
  And keep the good will of a friend.

You'll learn when you're older that chip on your shoulder
  Which proudly you battle to guard,
Has frequently shamed you and often defamed you
  And left you a record that's marred!
When you've grown calm and steady, you won't be so ready
  To fight for a difference that's small,
For you'll know, when you're older that chip on your shoulder
  Is only a chip after all.

All for the Best

Things mostly happen for the best. However hard it seems to-day, When some fond plan has gone
astray Or what you've wished for most is lost An' you sit countin' up the cost With eyes half-blind
by tears o' grief While doubt is chokin' out belief, You'll find when all is understood That
what seemed bad was really good.

Life can't be counted in a day. The present rain that will not stop Next autumn means a bumper
crop. We wonder why some things must be-- Care's purpose we can seldom see-- An' yet long afterwards
we turn To view the past, an' then we learn That what once filled our minds with doubt Was
good for us as it worked out.

I've never known an hour of care But that I've later come to see That it has brought some joy
to me. Even the sorrows I have borne, Leavin' me lonely an' forlorn An' hurt an' bruised an'
sick at heart, In life's great plan have had a part. An' though I could not understand Why
I should bow to Death's command, As time went on I came to know That it was really better so.

Things mostly happen for the best. So narrow is our vision here That we are blinded by a tear
An' stunned by every hurt an' blow Which comes to-day to strike us low. An' yet some day we
turn an' find That what seemed cruel once was kind. Most things, I hold, are wisely planned
If we could only understand.

The Kick Under the Table

After a man has been married awhile, And his wife has grown used to his manner and style, When
she knows from the twinkle that lights up his eye The thoughts he is thinking, the wherefore
and why, And just what he'll say, and just what he'll do, And is sure that he'll make a bad
break ere he's through, She has one little trick that she'll work when she's able-- She takes
a sly kick at him under the table.

He may fancy the story he's telling is true, Or he's doing the thing which is proper to do;
He may fancy he's holding his own with the rest, The life of the party and right at his best,
When quickly he learns to his utter dismay, That he mustn't say what he's just started to say.
He is stopped at the place where he hoped to begin, By his wife, who has taken a kick at his shin.

If he picks the wrong fork for the salad, he knows That fact by the feel of his wife's slippered
toes. If he's started a bit of untellable news, On the calf of his leg there is planted a bruise.
Oh, I wonder sometimes what would happen to me If the wife were not seated just where she could
be On guard every minute to watch every trick, And keep me in line all the time with her kick.

Leader of the Gang

Seems only just a year ago that he was toddling round the place In pretty little colored suits
and with a pink and shining face. I used to hold him in my arms to watch when our canary sang,
And now tonight he tells me that he's leader of his gang.

It seems but yesterday, I vow, that I with fear was almost dumb, Living those dreadful hours
of care waiting the time for him to come; And I can still recall the thrill of that first cry
of his which rang Within our walls. And now that babe tells me he's leader of his gang.

Gone from our lives are all the joys which yesterday we used to own; The baby that we thought
we had, out of the little home has flown, And in his place another stands, whose garments in
disorder hang, A lad who now with pride proclaims that he's the leader of his gang.

And yet somehow I do not grieve for what it seems we may have lost; To have so strong a boy
as this, most cheerfully I pay the cost. I find myself a sense of joy to comfort every little
pang, And pray that they shall find in him a worthy leader of the gang.

Ma and the Ouija Board

I don't know what it's all about, but Ma says that she wants to know
If spirits in the other world can really talk to us below.
An' Pa says, "Gosh! there's folks enough on earth to talk to, I should
    think,
Without you pesterin' the folks whose souls have gone across the brink."
But Ma, she wants to find out things an' study on her own accord,
An' so a month or two ago she went an' bought a ouija board.

It's just a shiny piece of wood, with letters printed here an' there, An' has a little table
which you put your fingers on with care, An' then you sit an' whisper low some question that
you want to know. Then by an' by the spirit comes an' makes the little table go, An' Ma, she
starts to giggle then an' Pa just grumbles out, "Oh, Lord! I wish you hadn't bought this thing.
We didn't need a ouija board."

"You're movin' it!" says Ma to Pa. "I'm not!" says Pa, "I know it's you; You're makin' it spell
things to us that you know very well aren't true." "That isn't so," says Ma to him, "but I
am certain from the way The ouija moves that you're the one who's tellin' it just what to say."
"It's just 'lectricity," says Pa; "like batteries all men are stored, But anyhow I don't believe
we ought to have a ouija board."

One night Ma got it out, an' said, "Now, Pa, I want you to be fair,
Just keep right still an' let your hands rest lightly on the table there.
Oh, Ouija, tell me, tell me true, are we to buy another car,
An' will we get it very soon?" she asked. "Oh, tell us from afar."
"Don't buy a car," the letters spelled, "the price this year you can't
    afford."
Then Ma got mad, an' since that time she's never used the ouija board.

Committee Meetings

For this and that and various things
  It seems that men must get together,
To purchase cups or diamond rings
  Or to discuss the price of leather.
From nine to ten, or two to three,
  Or any hour that's fast and fleeting,
There is a constant call for me
  To go to some committee meeting.

The church has serious work to do,
  The lodge and club has need of workers,
They ask for just an hour or two--
  Surely I will not join the shirkers?
Though I have duties of my own
  I should not drop before completing,
There comes the call by telephone
  To go to some committee meeting.

No longer may I eat my lunch
  In quietude and contemplation;
I must foregather with the bunch
  To raise a fund to save the nation.
And I must talk of plans and schemes
  The while a scanty bite I'm eating,
Until I vow to-day it seems
  My life is one committee meeting.

When over me the night shall fall,
  And my poor soul goes upwards winging
Unto that heavenly realm, where all
  Is bright with joy and gay with singing,
I hope to hear St. Peter say--
  And I shall thank him for the greeting:
"Come in and rest from day to day;
  Here there is no committee meeting!"

Pa and the Monthly Bills

When Ma gets out the monthly bills and sets them all in front of Dad, She makes us children
run away because she knows he may get mad; An' then she smiles a bit and says: "I hope you
will not fuss and fret-- There's nothing here except the things I absolutely had to get!" An'
Pa he looks 'em over first. "The things you had to have!" says he; "I s'pose that we'd have
died without that twenty dollar longeree."

Then he starts in to write the checks for laundry  an' for light an' gas,
An' never says a word 'bout them--because they're small he lets 'em pass.
But when he starts to grunt an' groan, an' stops the while his pipe he
    fills,
We know that he is gettin' down to where Ma's hid the bigger bills.
"Just what we had to have," says he, "an' I'm supposed to pay the tolls;
Nine dollars an' a half for--say, what the deuce are camisoles?

"If you should break a leg," says Pa, "an couldn't get down town to shop, I'll bet the dry
goods men would see their business take an awful drop, An' if they missed you for a week, they'd
have to fire a dozen clerks! Say, couldn't we have got along without this bunch of Billie Burkes?"
But Ma just sits an' grins at him, an' never has a word to say, Because she says Pa likes to
fuss about the bills he has to pay.

Bob White

Out near the links where I go to play My favorite game from day to day, There's a friend of
mine that I've never met Walked with or broken bread with, yet I've talked to him oft and he's
talked to me Whenever I've been where he's chanced to be; He's a cheery old chap who keeps
out of sight, A gay little fellow whose name is Bob White.

Bob White! Bob White! I can hear him call As I follow the trail to my little ball-- Bob White!
Bob White! with a note of cheer That was just designed for a mortal ear. Then I drift far off
from the world of men And I send an answer right back to him then; An' we whistle away to each
other there, Glad of the life which is ours to share.

Bob White! Bob White! May you live to be The head of a numerous family! May you boldly call
to your friends out here, With never an enemy's gun to fear. I'm a better man as I pass along,
For your cheery call and your bit of song. May your food be plenty and skies be bright To the
end of your days, good friend Bob White!

When Ma Wants Something New

Last night Ma said to Pa: "My dear, The Williamsons are coming here To visit for a week or
two, An' I must have a talk with you. We need some things which we must get-- You promised
me a dinner set, An' I should like it while they're here." An' Pa looked up an' said: "My dear,
A dinner set? Well, I guess not. What's happened to the one we've got?"

"We need a parlor rug," says Ma. "We've got a parlor rug," says Pa. "We ought to have another
chair." "You're sittin' in a good one there." "The parlor curtains are a fright." "When these
are washed they look all right." "The old stuff's pitiful to see." "It still looks mighty good
to me." "The sofa's worn beyond repair." "It doesn't look so bad, I swear."

"Gee Whiz, you make me tired," says Ma. "Why, what's the matter now?" says Pa. "You come an'
go an' never see How old our stuff has grown to be; It still looks just the same to you As
what it did when it was new, An' every time you think it strange That I should like to have
a change." "I'm gettin' old," says Pa. "Maybe You'd like a younger man than me."

"If this old rug was worn an' thin, At night you'd still come walkin' in An' throw your hat
upon a chair An' never see a single tear; So long as any chair could stand An' bear your weight
you'd think it grand. If home depended all on you, It never would get something new." "All
right," says Pa, "go buy the stuff! But, say, am I still good enough?"

Sittin' on the Porch

Sittin' on the porch at night when all the tasks are done, Just restin' there an' talkin',
with my easy slippers on, An' my shirt band thrown wide open an' my feet upon the rail, Oh,
it's then I'm at my richest, with a wealth that cannot fail; For the scent of early roses seems
to flood the evening air, An' a throne of downright gladness is my wicker rocking chair.

The dog asleep beside me, an' the children rompin' 'round With their shrieks of merry laughter,
Oh, there is no gladder sound To the ears o' weary mortals, spite of all the scoffers say,
Or a grander bit of music than the children at their play! An' I tell myself times over, when
I'm sittin' there at night, That the world in which I'm livin' is a place o' real delight.

Then the moon begins its climbin' an' the stars shine overhead, An' the mother calls the children
an' she takes 'em up to bed, An' I smoke my pipe in silence an' I think o' many things, An'
balance up my riches with the lonesomeness o' kings, An' I come to this conclusion, an' I'll
wager that I'm right-- That I'm happier than they are, sittin' on my porch at night.

With Dog and Gun

Out in the woods with a dog an' gun Is my idea of a real day's fun. 'Tain't the birds that
I'm out to kill That furnish me with the finest thrill, 'Cause I never worry or fret a lot,
Or curse my luck if I miss a shot. There's many a time, an' I don't know why, That I shoot
too low or I aim too high, An' all I can see is the distant whirr Of a bird that's gittin'
back home to her-- Yep, gittin' back home at the end o' day, An' I'm just as glad that he got away.

There's a whole lot more in the woods o' fall Than the birds you bag--if you think at all.
There's colors o' gold an' red an' brown As never were known in the busy town; There's room
to breathe in the purest air An' something worth looking at everywhere; There's the dog who's
leadin' you on an' on To a patch o' cover where birds have gone, An' standin' there, without
move or change, Till you give the sign that you've got the range. That's thrill enough for
my blood, I say, So why should I care if they get away?

Fact is, there are times that I'd ruther miss Than to bring 'em down, 'cause I feel like this:
There's a heap more joy in a living thing Than a breast crushed in or a broken wing, An' I
can't feel right, an' I never will, When I look at a bird that I've dared to kill. Oh, I'm
jus' plumb happy to tramp about An' follow my dog as he hunts 'em out, Jus' watchin' him point
in his silent way Where the Bob Whites are an' the partridge stay; For the joy o' the great
outdoors I've had, So why should I care if my aim is bad?

Old Mister Laughter

Old Mister Laughter
  Comes a-grinnin' down the way,
Singin': "Never mind your troubles,
  For they'll surely pass away."
Singin': "Now the sun is shinin'
  An' there's roses everywhere;
To-morrow will be soon enough
  To fret about your care."

Old Mister Laughter
  Comes a-grinnin' at my door,
Singin': "Don't go after money
  When you've got enough and more."
Singin':  "Laugh with me this mornin'
  An' be happy while you may.
What's the use of riches
  If they never let you play?"

Old Mister Laughter
  Comes a-grinnin' all the time,
Singin' happy songs o' gladness
  In a good old-fashioned rhyme.
Singin': "Keep the smiles a-goin',
  Till they write your epitaph,
And don't let fame or fortune
  Ever steal away your laugh." For me alone so you've read this desolation?

Omar.

Abdallah, do not be ungrateful. - The wise can understand me only.

Abdallah went.

Chapter Four.

Selim was in deep thought, as Abdallah came in to him, he noticed
his son and was on.

I have sent for you, "he said to you to announce important news, has Omar you not told?

Nothing answered, Abdallah - but the name you've known, my father remembers me a request, tell
me who is this Omar?

And how You come so suddenly on the question, asked Selim, you know him for so long and it never
occurred to you to be informed in more detail from him.

This Omar, Abdallah said, my second father, for you I love him the most, perhaps, if I am to be
honest, I have between you and him all my love equally distributed. - So far down as my memory
in the past, just as long as I am also aware that Omar and he was the playmate of my childhood
and is the teacher my youth, a boy could I me God never help but think and think Omar is now " he
gave me a picture of wisdom. Everything I think and I know I have drawn from it - without his
love I could not be happy. - He is known to me as my own Figure, his mind is so familiar to
my soul, I nestle so childish of him, all his features have I so often regarded and deeply influenced
in my soul - only yesterday evening It was a magical night in which
my imagination more raised than usual - or was it the empty sober
awakening from a slumber, find us at once in the countryside one hundred
convoluted structure to face; when I went through the woods with Omar
went back to town, suddenly kicked me in the strange feeling as if
a strange man going to my site - I was a hundred times about to draw
my hand from his, I did not dare him to see, the uncertain light of
the night flew around him and blocked all of its known Trains - I
was torn out of myself - I followed him with a shudder.

Selim. In the years when the imagination is our nurse, play thousands enthusiasms and deceptive
feelings melt away around us, the resort when we return to them in our air and Spirit to a sluggish,
that lead-free tranquility.

The male youth must all these childish fancies reject with a serious
look, undisturbed on its path further go and this morning mists give
not even a discarded eye.

Abdallah. Since yesterday, but the idea worries me. Tell me who is this Omar?

I will tell you everything I know about him, replied Selim; you have it until now "as your teacher
and friend loved, you will now honor him as your benefactor. - Ali, like a consuming fire
in the body of his country's raging against the thousand curses of widows and orphans floating
restlessly around the throne of God, Ali also had me in a thousand made miserable. I was rich
and my treasures drew his greed, he took from me everything what I possessed - only your mother
and you - next I had nothing left in this world. You were a summer ago and smiled at your mother's
breast without understanding the misery contrary. - We left the city and wandered over unknown
mountains to other areas the misery was next to us and gave us the poor food, all my friends
left me as if they had never known me, worry and poverty were our only inseparable Companion,
so we walked from town to town and lived on the meager alms to us
the compassion of the people threw. - A silent grief rummaged invisible
in the hearts of your Mother, she smiled and handed me goodbye - and
went after a few hours in their better back home.

I stayed with my misfortune in solitude.

Selim sad silent for some time, he continued:

She was buried. The earth was wet and heavy down at her, a knife cut through my Soul if you
asked with a childish smile for your mother, and knocked at the grave, heraufzulocken them again,
but your smile was the last weak band, which I then back to this world, held inviolable obligations
talked me out of your friendly Eye on, you were still alive and therefore I was the life of
something dear. I could not Remove from the area, rested in the Zamiri, her spirit seemed
to hover there, and me in the homes of my grief to hold back. - Abdallah Oh, there were sad days
- if the young Morgenroth seemed so burning rose up and trembling on my sleepless eyes, when
the golden evening moved over the mountains and the sad lonely night
with hundreds of new concerns slowly ascended, - the memory of those
days - the man must suffer much, but his Muth has never left him.

A small silence. Attention and sad Abdallah heard the story of his father, this Then he added:

I
visited the cemetery every day on which it rested, I devoutly prayed to her grave and prayed
for strength. In the deepest feelings of my misery I once sat on the grave, you game test at
ease in front of me in the deep grass, the past was friendly towards me and sat down beside
me confidentially, unmanly tears ran down my cheeks hot and fell dead on yellow flowers that bloom
on the grave. - Suddenly I saw a dervish, who approached me from the shadows of the trees.
He had visited me in my happiness often and in his presence I always felt a sacred awe, as
a silent shower breathed at me as if it blew from the spirit of the prophet. My bad luck seemed
to Grave, he said, is contrary to bloom decayed behind that hill, and a new happiness to you, move.
- I dug and found a great treasure, who replaced me more than I had taken Ali, - When I wanted
to bring my hot thanks to the dervish, 'I could see him anywhere - And this is Omar Dervish?

Abdallah.
Omar?

Selim. Your teacher Omar. - Him I owe everything I have, all I have is only a good that he has
lent me. - I sat down at the farthest limits of the empire, changed my name and called me Selim.
Here I was, Ali's cruelty and greed sure until now he has changed his residence for a year and
go here. - I was now "just as happy as I could be when, after three years, a strange Release
visited my house. Hagren a parched old man handed me his long hand, like a dead men's rattling
leg, saw the death occurred in his deep eyes, powerless staggered the skull back and forth
and his speech was only the gasp of a dying man. I alarmed at the sight of misery and take a long
time, I saw how that dead skeleton - Your Omar.

Abdallah. Omar?

Selim. I took him in as my benefactor, fed him like a father until withdrawn by his Siechheit
genaß. were returned as his health and his strength, he took friendship of my hand and said, "You
are my benefactor Selim, you saved my life and I will not be ungrateful, you have a son, he wants
to pay me what I am the father can not pay. "Thus was our benefactor,
your playmate, your teacher, your friend.

Abdallah was thinking. A new appreciation bound him tightly to Omar and was hanging on his Teach
even greater weight, his teacher was undoubted virtue, the more reliable had to be his wisdom,
and the vicious, who denies that virtue is not heard but if the noble
enough the bad guy's hand and called him brother boldly, then hesitates
the proud virtue and looks doubtful in their inner being.

You are silent, Selim began again, so now you are not eager to hear
the message that I had to announce to you?

Abdallah. Forgive my father - I hear. -

Selim.

You shall marry you.

Abdallah. Your bid is my will.

Selim. Abubeker the noble daughter.

Abdallah.

You want it and she is my wife.

Selim. This obedience I expected from you, my son. Abdallah is his father's love not repay with ingratitude.

Abdallah.
No, never my father.

Selim. You love not, my son?

Abdallah. I love only you and Omar. -

Selim. Let this child's love never go out in your breast. - Abubeker daughter - or my curse!

Selim
saw him with a piercing halberzürnenden look that Abdullah did not understand. It was a cold
solid look that is indelibly marked with the terrible curse words grub in Abdallah's memory,
this looks like a flash of lightning suddenly turned the strange Ignorance of Omar in his soul,
- when he entered.

He saw to it again and it was quite old, friendly, well-known Omar, and he went away happy and
all his anxious fears were gone.

Chapter Five.

Abubeker now "also appeared in the room with him and several of his
and Selim's friends.

Abubeker was an old man of seventy years, his face was long and gaunt, his eyes gently and his
silver-white beard fell on his venerable breast. For a long time was he died the world, without
that he or she missed him and he lived with his daughter in a domestic solitude, only known
by his friends and honored. He was in the field brought up and become an old man under the armor,
the enemy had feared his bravery and in his manhood Abubeker name was known throughout the land,
but with the services of the commander also disappears the thanks
of the people, the glory is like the fog that wraps itself apart over
the whole milieu and stretched the furthest, disappears.

In the camp and in battle Abubeker had his spirit can only make little
he thought only gradually and steadfastly insisted on each formed
an opinion, his every Convictions, he was reluctant to take a new
and put in its place: for that wherein He had once thought he seemed
the only and final truth.

Selim bewillkommte him and his companions, and all sat down.

A brief silence was staying on the Assembly, as Selim stood up at last, Abubeker hand seized
and taken as a sacred fire, which went on:

Abubeker, you are my friend and what's more, an honest man, you're the all of you are present,
and would be one among us who wore not this great feeling in his bosom, the removed himself before
I speak further, because my words are good for no ignoble ear. - But no, - the noblest men of
the State gathered here and therefore should boldly my thoughts and words are all the same way
transform. For the Biederman Biedermann must without circumlocution To speak and that fact
was the cause of my invitation.

All were silent; Selim stood and looked around in the Assembly, he continued:

Abubeker, perhaps you remember the golden days when the scepter of the wise Alfargo this country,
dominated as an everlasting peace on the frontiers of the empire controlled as a unbreakable loyalty
all subjects in a beautiful ribbon and the united arms of the prince
Was when the luck was living in our homes, as - what the beautiful
memories, friends? this Time was and is no more, the sun ray that
shakes shy of the prison walls, makes the prisoner to prison close,
this memory is to us what the lost wanderer in the stormy night the
light extinguished.

We were happy to jump from the thought the sad conviction that we are unhappy! - Like the
storm, the air hangs heavy and pressured over our country, the workers have left fearful hide
the field and in caves, the grass trembles softly the coming storm, all nature breathes heavily
and waiting with anxious impatience the collapsing weather. - This is the image of our country,
Friends, smiles, no face, that shines as the foolish children, no eye, as the Eye of the dying,
no joy laughing sad heart - sad, with drooping Head, absorbed in
ourselves, by any sense out of our cheerful black dreams awakened,
stand, we rely on a sharp, meerumheulten cliff and sue in the wild
noise the lake. - And why our tears, hanging as heavy in the red with
weeping eyes songs?

Why suppressed sighs swell our hearts so high? - Are the gentle fields around us Deserts of sand
now? Brings out the sun no longer her coat on this realm? Depends a consuming disease over
our heads? Our friends are different? -

Oh yes, our friends are different, a plague wild looks down on us,
the sun is We went down and the flower of our corridors is gone!

A lovely morning Roth played in the cheerful sound of the waves around us, the tide falls back
and our boat is on a dry rocky ground in brackets. - Fortune has served us his hand to eternal
farewell and we see displeasure to his departure. - And consoles us because of our no substitute
Loss and we are not even eager, to learn the cause of our misery?

O all-good to let your actions do not penetrate, for he is not angry, the generous nature has
no bare hand is stretched out over us. - But what about human violence constricted our hearts so powerfully
together? Anyone who proposes this darkening vault around us? - O that I must say it schaamroth,
- a stranger would mock amazement our weakness, - A man!

Him carry our fields, it flows back as a greedy sea, all our work, we live only for him, for the only
one fight in all our useless armed forces. - Him have you, the ungrateful, your battles fought, Abubeker,
it is the plague that the country consumed behind his throne is our sun has, in his terrible
omnipotence is the death of all of our friends. - Life and death he has to distort the balance,
his moods swaying our happiness depends, storm thundering from his angry eyes, the smile of
his mouth is our refreshing spring sunshine, his words of eternal
immutable Laws - we stand there and feel that we are miserable, and
o the shame! - We content us so that we feel it!

Are we all so deeply sunk in weakness that we do not even complain too? Have we become so strange
that we do not even change our fate? That we are content with what he throws us back from the
devastation and look forward to the grace which we still under the rubble of our previous
home convert granted? The wounded snake enraged the heel of her killer, the innocent dove struggling
helplessly against the destroyer their nest, so the worm writhes in anger trampled under the foot of
the traveler - and we! - Who is the indecency that was not ashamed
of the chains and they liked his Poor brushing? - Would it go and
tell my speech, Ali!

Slave and free citizens are equal in our time, the kingdom has only one free, we are all his slaves,
the country and its people have perished in the One, our wishes kneel before his will, the high
right that every person brings to the world we have squandered on these scammers. Our existence,
we can not call life, we are dead masses without own will, stones,
a wanton boy to play work in the evening throws it into the sea. -
- And who is this Noble?

A giant with brazen body of the broken any steel rebounds? - No, a collection of dust, like
us, uplifted by a Arm plunged to the ground forever.

Where is the courage of our fathers fought in and shake the enemy doing? If all the daggers dull?
Is no one who takes up arms and avenge himself and his brothers? No one? - Oh, I was wrong, I
forgot that I live jetzo here, now, where slavery intact, where our greatest wish is the most
shameful of his slaves. - The time has its circle made and taken away all that is noble in our
years, she has only me unhappy lonely leave.

He was silent. - The men were glowing, the arms of young men twitched involuntarily. In many
Eye was the tear of high enthusiasm, many wanted to jump up and wave their daggers, as the wise
Abubeker slow deliberate voice that is saying:

Selim, your voice is the voice of truth, the kingdom is unfortunate, there is tyranny violence
with fraudulently obtained from her throne, the people groaning under the iron tiefgebückt
Yoke - but hear me as a friend and be angry. - I'm on a high peak, which I see on so many
years, which are spread at my feet, age and the experience comes at last to the place of wisdom.
- Have you never, Selim, a flood seen the devastating floods the plains, and fertilized and
fertile leaves again? One tribe, the burning of the flash and a more beautiful from the ashes
with renewed vigor shoot out? - In the current evil is often the birth of a future happiness,
only that the mortal eye does not penetrate the darkness of the future, that our little eye only
includes what is before us, not what is often close by. - Already sent many nations the Lord
to chastise an iron scepter and many already knew the ameliorating
hand. - Ali is perhaps only the messenger of a higher power, the war
on us from there announced: we can get up rebellious against the Lord
and his wise master plan and discard?

It behooves the slave, to draw his master to account? - About servant listen to accomplish the commandment
of the infinite and the orders of his wrath. It may only wave, and Ali is pierced by lightning,
storm-torn.

He over the earth from their to raise fishing, and discontent with the breath of his mouth against
the limits of the universe to , Dash - and it should not send down
a dust to dust again, if it be Will be? - No, we do not tolerate,
Selim, and show our great soul in patience.

Revenge only roars from the animals, humans endure and forgive! -

O
old man! cried Selim, the age that consumed all our forces, speaks
of you.

Of hours you have to live, you are too few to act for them - but our children; Abubeker!

Abubeker.

She does not wake on the big eye that never closes? - Let her virtue
and worship God and they can not be miserable.

Selim turned away angrily and Omar began to speak:

You spoke with great wisdom, Abubeker, the hand draws from the clouds often seen the fates the
people, the dark fate is often out of his darkness, and even forces
the boldest skeptic to shuddering admiration.

Selim. And you, Omar? the first draft you broke my big test for maturity?

Omar. Often, however, prevails in the omnipotence of their impenetrability and storage before the cheeky
Eyes darkness around him. Often the back the inexorable fate, it tears the Thread on which it
draws the people and let him go without cable. Then it looks at the Path of the wanderer, and
he stands down with perpetual trains on the imperishable board. Then is the name of people enrolled
in the blessed or damned, without foreign pressure stand at the heart
of the virtue or vice.

Abubeker. I grasp the meaning of your words, Omar. If the eternal unchangeable fate never man
from his hand could be, then we drifted down a raging stream without our guilt, perhaps the boat
to a rock smashed or sunk into the sea.

Omar.

All contradictions are united then in a center, all of nature would
be a Flute, forever on the computer jargon, the notes of the creative
artist, no That was ours, innocent all returned to the Creator. -
No, Abubeker when the Lord for his goodness and the Truck permits,
it is he would not himself but that the wicked leads him from the
its essence beyond reproach, for he is the good itself; vernünfteln
blind him from his glory, with precisely the reason that he loaned
us to recognize him.

Abubeker. An error was mistaken, Omar.

Omar.
A breath of his being quietly slipped to the ground and there was
dust on people. This divine spark that made the night begotten him
kindly, is to him from the beasts of the forest, the trees and rock
walls stands out, this is the great sign, recognized by the people
themselves, the infallible pledge that beyond us a new life counter
when the soul here again shakes off the dust of the anger and the
valley leaves to climb a beautiful hill.

Abubeker. Your words inspire
in my heart a sun that illuminates the darkness.

I'd Rather Be a Failure

I'd rather be a failure than the man who's never tried; I'd rather seek the mountain-top than
always stand aside. Oh, let me hold some lofty dream and make my desperate fight, And though
I fail I still shall know I tried to serve the right.

The idlers line the ways of life and they are quick to sneer; They note the failing strength
of man and greet it with a jeer; But there is something deep inside which scoffers fail to
view-- They never see the glorious deed the failure tried to do.

Some men there are who never leave the city's well-worn streets; They never know the dangers
grim the bold adventurer meets; They never seek a better way nor serve a nobler plan; They
never risk with failure to advance the cause of man.

Oh, better 'tis to fail and fall in sorrow and despair, Than stand where all is safe and sure
and never face a care; Yes, stamp me with the failure's brand and let men sneer at me, For
though I've failed the Lord shall know the man I tried to be.

Couldn't Live Without You

You're just a little fellow with a lot of funny ways, Just three-foot-six of mischief set with
eyes that fairly blaze; You're always up to something with those busy hands o' yours, And you
leave a trail o' ruin on the walls an' on the doors, An' I wonder, as I watch you, an' your
curious tricks I see, Whatever is the reason that you mean so much to me.

You're just a chubby rascal with a grin upon your face, Just seven years o' gladness, an' a
hard and trying case; You think the world's your playground, an' in all you say an' do You
fancy everybody ought to bow an' scrape to you; Dull care's a thing you laugh at just as though
'twill never be, So I wonder, little fellow, why you mean so much to me.

Now your face is smeared with candy or perhaps it's only dirt, An' it's really most alarming
how you tear your little shirt; But I have to smile upon you, an' with all your wilful ways,
I'm certain that I need you 'round about me all my days; Yes, I've got to have you with me,
for somehow it's come to be That I couldn't live without you, for you're all the world to me.

Just a Boy

Get to understand the lad-- He's not eager to be bad; If the right he always knew, He would
be as old as you. Were he now exceeding wise, He'd be just about your size; When he does things
that annoy, Don't forget, he's just a boy.

Could he know and understand, He would need no guiding hand; But he's young and hasn't learned
How life's corners must be turned; Doesn't know from day to day There is more in life than
play, More to face than selfish joy-- Don't forget he's just a boy.

Being just a boy, he'll do Much you will not want him to; He'll be careless of his ways, Have
his disobedient days, Wilful, wild and headstrong, too, Just as, when a boy, were you; Things
of value he'll destroy, But, reflect, he's just a boy.

Just a boy who needs a friend, Patient, kindly to the end, Needs a father who will show Him
the things he wants to know; Take him with you when you walk, Listen when he wants to talk,
His companionship enjoy, Don't forget, he's just a boy!

What Home's Intended For

When the young folks gather 'round in the good old-fashioned way, Singin' all the latest songs
gathered from the newest play, Or they start the phonograph an' shove the chairs back to the
wall An' hold a little party dance, I'm happiest of all. Then I sorter settle back, plumb contented
to the core, An' I tell myself most proudly, that's what home's intended for.

When the laughter's gaily ringin' an' the room is filled with song, I like, to sit an' watch
'em, all that glad an' merry throng, For the ragtime they are playin' on the old piano there
Beats any high-toned music where the bright lights shine an' glare, An' the racket they are
makin' stirs my pulses more and more, So I whisper in my gladness: that's what home's intended for.

Then I smile an' say to Mother, let 'em move the chairs about, Let 'em frolic in the parlor,
let 'em shove the tables out, Jus' so long as they are near us, jus' so long as they will stay
By the fireplace we are keepin', harm will never come their way, An' you'll never hear me grumble
at the bills that keep me poor, It's the finest part o' livin'--that's what home's intended for.

Safe at Home

Let the old fire blaze
  An' the youngsters shout
An' the dog on the rug
  Sprawl full length out,
An' Mother an' I
  Sort o' settle down--
An' it's little we care
  For the noisy town.

Oh, it's little we care
  That the wind may blow,
An' the streets grow white
  With the drifted snow;
We'll face the storm
  With the break o' day,
But to-night we'll dream
  An' we'll sing an' play.

We'll sit by the fire
  Where it's snug an' warm,
An' pay no heed
  To the winter storm;
With a sheltering roof
  Let the blizzard roar;
We are safe at home--
  Can a king say more?

That's all that counts
  When the day is done:
The smiles of love
  And the youngsters' fun,
The cares put down
  With the evening gloam--
Here's the joy of all:
  To be safe at home.

When Friends Drop In

It may be I'm old-fashioned, but the times I like the best Are not the splendid parties with
the women gaily dressed, And the music tuned for dancing and the laughter of the throng, With
a paid comedian's antics or a hired musician's song, But the quiet times of friendship, with
the chuckles and the grin, And the circle at the fireside when a few good friends drop in.

There's something 'round the fireplace that no club can imitate, And no throng can ever equal
just a few folks near the grate; Though I sometimes like an opera, there's no music quite so
sweet As the singing of the neighbors that you're always glad to meet; Oh, I know when they
come calling that the fun will soon begin, And I'm happiest those evenings when a few good
friends drop in.

There's no pomp of preparation, there's no style or sham or fuss; We are glad to welcome callers
who are glad to be with us, And we sit around and visit or we start a merry game, And we show
them by our manner that we're mighty pleased they came, For there's something real about it,
and the yarns we love to spin, And the time flies, Oh, so swiftly when a few good friends drop in.

Let me live my life among them, cheerful, kindly folks and true, And I'll ask no greater glory
till my time of life is through; Let me share the love and favor of the few who know me best,
And I'll spend my time contented till my sun sinks in the west; I will take what fortune sends
me and the little I may win, And be happy on those evenings when a few good friends drop in.

The Book of Memory

Turn me loose and let me be Young once more and fancy free; Let me wander where I will, Down
the lane and up the hill, Trudging barefoot in the dust In an age that knows no "must," And
no voice insistently Speaks of duty unto me; Let me tread the happy ways Of those by-gone yesterdays.

Fame had never whispered then, Making slaves of eager men; Greed had never called me down To
the gray walls of the town, Offering frankincense and myrrh If I'd be its prisoner; I was free
to come and go Where the cherry blossoms blow, Free to wander where I would, Finding life supremely
good.

But I turned, as all must do, From the happiness I knew To the land of care and strife, Seeking
for a fuller life; Heard the lure of fame and sought That renown so dearly bought; Listened
to the voice of greed Saying: "These the things you need," Now the gray town holds me fast,
Prisoner to the very last.

Age has stamped me as its own; Youth to younger hearts has flown; Still the cherry blossoms
blow In the land loused to know; Still the fragrant clover spills Perfume over dales and hills,
But I'm not allowed to stray Where the young are free to play; All the years will grant to
me Is the book of memory.

Pretending Not to See

Sometimes at the table, when He gets misbehavin', then Mother calls across to me: "Look at
him, now! Don't you see What he's doin', sprawlin.' there! Make him sit up in his chair. Don't
you see the messy way That he's eating?" An' I say: "No. He seems all right just now. What's
he doing anyhow?"

Mother placed him there by me, An' she thinks I ought to see Every time he breaks the laws
An' correct him, just because There will come a time some day When he mustn't act that way.
But I can't be all along Scoldin' him for doin' wrong. So if something goes astray, I jus'
look the other way.

Mother tells me now an' then I'm the easiest o' men, An' in dealin' with the lad I will never
see the bad That he does, an' I suppose Mother's right for Mother knows; But I'd hate to feel
that I'm Here to scold him all the time. Little faults might spoil the day, So I look the other
way.

Look the other way an' try Not to let him catch my eye, Knowin' all the time that he Doesn't
mean so bad to be; Knowin', too, that now an' then I am not the best o' men; Hopin', too, the
times I fall That the Father of us all, Lovin', watchin' over me, Will pretend He doesn't see.

The Joys of Home

Curling smoke from a chimney low, And only a few more steps to go, Faces pressed at a window
pane Watching for someone to come again, And I am the someone they wait to see-- These are
the joys life gives to me.

What has my neighbor excelling this: A good wife's love and a baby's kiss? What if his chimneys
tower higher? Peace is found at our humble fire. What if his silver and gold are more? Rest
is ours when the day is o'er.

Strive for fortune and slave for fame, You find that joy always stays the same: Rich man and
poor man dream and pray For a home where laughter shall ever stay, And the wheels go round
and men spend their might For the few glad hours they may claim at night.

Home, where the kettle shall gaily sing, Is all that matters with serf or king; Gold and silver
and laurelled fame Are only sweet when the hearth's aflame With a cheerful fire, and the loved
ones there Are unafraid of the wolves of care.

So let me come home at night to rest With those who know I have done my best; Let the wife
rejoice and my children smile, And I'll know by their love that I am worthwhile, For this is
conquest and world success-- A home where abideth happiness.

We're Dreamers All

Oh, man must dream of gladness wherever his pathways lead, And a hint of something better is
written in every creed; And nobody wakes at morning but hopes ere the day is o'er To have come
to a richer pleasure than ever he's known before.

For man is a dreamer ever. He glimpses the hills afar And plans for the joys off yonder where
all his to-morrows are; When trials and cares beset him, in the distance he still can see A
hint of a future splendid and the glory that is to be.

There's never a man among us but cherishes dreams of rest; We toil for that something better
than that which is now our best. Oh, what if the cup be bitter and what if we're racked with
pain? There are wonderful days to follow when never we'll grieve again.

Back of the sound of the hammer, and back of the hissing steam, And back of the hand at the
throttle is ever a lofty dream; All of us, great or humble, look over the present need To the
dawn of the glad to-morrow which is promised in every creed.

What Is Success?

Success is being friendly when another needs a friend; It's in the cheery words you speak,
and in the coins you lend; Success is not alone in skill and deeds of daring great; It's in
the roses that you plant beside your garden gate.

Success is in the way you walk the paths of life each day; It's in the little things you do
and in the things you say; Success is in the glad hello you give your fellow man; It's in the
laughter of your home and all the joys you plan. You can do much harm, but little good. It is best to get familiar with her stand. Begging
them to you from your only goat, give it to her, will crash your horse or Your house is on fire,
otherwise your cow is sick or your child dies, or she brings the thrifty Housewife their minds.

It is never welcome, and yet it is best to receive them with a smiling mouth. Who know to whose
account it has come! Their purpose is not simply to be their blind beggar to be filled. Bad omens her
follow on the heels, foxes and wolves howl eerily spits in the twilight, and the disgusting red and
black worms, the pus comes out, the woods and crawl to the door threshold.

Proud she is. Her head wraps powerful wisdom of the fathers. Something rises to mind. Strong Runes
carved into her staff, she did not sell for all the gold in the valley. Magic spells she can
sing, she can brew potions, it can spell fire shots across the lake aprons and storm nodes.

What
does she think that comes down from the darkness of forests, from
the mighty mountains, what she thinks of the people in the valley?

For them, that believes in Thor, the giant killer and the Finn powerful gods, the Christians
the same as farm dogs are domesticated wolves. But they often come down from the mountains to
their dwarf manners to look at. People shudder with horror when they see them, but the strong
daughter of the wilderness is surely among them, so that safe in their horror. The heroic deeds of
their tribe are not forgotten as little as their own. As the cat relies on its claws, it relies
the wisdom of their brain and the power that lies in the magic songs of the gods. No king is
his power more secure than they fear the empire over which it rules.

So the witch has moved through many towns. Now she has come to Borg,
and they Do not hesitate to visit the Castle of the Counts.

Through the kitchen, they rarely lead. It rises straight ascended the terrace steps, they set
their broad wooden shoe on the blumenumhegten Gravel paths, as calmly as she ascended the Mountain
hike path.

And it happens just so that Countess Marta is step out on the terrace to be to enjoy the splendor
of the June day. are underway on the gravel just below the stairs two girls on their way to
the storage house remained standing. They come from the smokehouse where the bacon is in the
smoke, and who have recently smoked ham on a pole between themselves. "Will the lady countess smell
the ham is" even if it strong enough are smoked, "asked one of the girls.

Countess Marta which is currently a housewife in Borg, leans over the railing and looks the bacon,
but at the same moment the Finn puts his hand on one of the ham.

Egg look, but this brown, shiny rind, this thick layer of fat! This fresh fragrance of juniper
branches, which flows from the ham! This is a feast for the gods!

The need have the witch! She puts her hand on the sides of bacon.

The daughter of the mountains knows no requests or begging. Is it not the consequence of their
grace, that the herbs grow, so that the people live?

Frost and storm and flood - all things to send it. Therefore, it
is not appropriate for them to ask or beg.

It lays her hand on what she wants, and it belongs to her.

But Countess Marta knows nothing of the power of the ancients.

"Away with you, you beggar! Calls" her.

Give me a ham, "says the wolf rider from the high mountains.

"She's crazy," cries the Countess and ordered the maids, with their
load into the storehouse to go.

The eyes of the Hundred Years' flame with anger and desire. "Give
me the brown ham," she exclaims, "or it will go bad!"

"I'd rather
give it to the Magpies as a man like you!"

As the old man tremble
with rage. She raises her staff with the runes in the air and swings
it wild. Her lips utter strange words. Her hair stands on end, eyes
spray Sparks, her face distorted.

"Yourself to eat the magpies,"
she finally cries.

When his merry call they'd hear,
All the children, far an' near,
Would come flyin' from the gardens
  Like the chickens after wheat;
When we'd shake our heads an' say:
"No, you mustn't go to-day!"
He'd beg to let him have 'em
  In a pack about his feet.

Oh, he spoiled 'em, one an' all;
There was not a youngster small
But was over-fed on candy
  An' was stuffed with lollypops,
An' I think his greatest joy
Was to get some girl or boy
An' bring 'em to their parents
  All besmeared by chocolate drops.

Now the children's hearts are sore
For he comes to them no more,
And no more to them he whistles
  And no more for them he stops;
But in Paradise, I think,
With his chuckle and his wink,
He is leading little angels
  To the heavenly candy shops.

A Vanished Joy

When I was but a little lad of six and seven and eight, One joy I knew that has been lost in
customs up-to-date, Then Saturday was baking day and Mother used to make, The while I stood
about and watched, the Sunday pies and cake; And I was there to have fulfilled a small boy's
fondest wish, The glorious privilege of youth--to scrape the frosting dish!

On Saturdays I never left to wander far away-- I hovered near the kitchen door on Mother's
baking day; The fragrant smell of cooking seemed to hold me in its grip, And naught cared I
for other sports while there were sweets to sip; I little cared that all my chums had sought
the brook to fish; I chose to wait that moment glad when I could scrape the dish.

Full many a slice of apple I have lifted from a pie Before the upper crust went on, escaping
Mother's eye; Full many a time my fingers small in artfulness have strayed Into some sweet
temptation rare which Mother's hands had made; But eager-eyed and watery-mouthed, I craved
the greater boon, When Mother let me clean the dish and lick the frosting spoon.

The baking days of old are gone, our children cannot know The glorious joys that childhood
owned and loved so long ago. 

The mayor raised the cozy red face from his papers, threw a volatile View of the new comer and
said he had noticed the finer clothes of the same, with a round hand: "Will you kindly take
place, I would like your His services. "Then he put his head back into the files.

The other was taken a step closer. "You're always so busy, Fritz?" he said. "Once you suffered
not from the disease."

The mayor jumped up, hooked his glasses from his nose and stared at the speaker from his little
good-natured eyes. "Richard, it's you!" he cried. "My God, how good you still love me know!
And yet, my head is bald and the rest of the hair turned gray!

Yes, yes, a Such mayors office! "

The small stout figure had emerged after the document table. Gazed in astonishment it in the
face of him towering over almost a head taller friend. "That," he said, patting with his short
hand over the shiny brown hair still the same, "this is of course
only wig, but the eyes, unnaturally young eyes, they're probably still
the real old fun in our day!

"

The guest into smiling this stream of chatter about indulging, while
the mayor beside him on the sofa niederzog.

"And now," continued the latter, "where are you from, what are you, what are you doing? "

"I, Fritz?" jokingly replied the other, "I'm looking for a content
which is still empty Vessel of my life, or rather, "he added more
seriously, adding," I do not seek it, I suffer just a little of that
emptiness.

"

The Mayor looked him frankly in the eyes.

"You, Richard?" said he, "at the University of all faculties have
been grazed!

But Will an old friend at a certain anonymous have discovered even your pen in a botanical
journal "

"Really, Fritz - he has not seen failure."

The little fat man remembered.

"You're still single?" he asked. "Yes?" Even now? Hm! You were an enthusiast, Richard! Do you
remember when we danced on the students Dornburg? You were currently the bride at home, you
would not dance, you were sitting in the corner by the long Wassermann,
who could not dance because of his big boots, and drank only Wine,
very much wine, Richard!

You did not want the happy dances desecrate you at home had danced
with her!

"

The other was a bit quiet now, while the mayor in a sudden uneasiness
Clock his gold from the depths of his pocket pulled. "Tell me, darling,"
he began again, you give me but this day? "

"I have the afternoon
even more."

"Unruh Still the old masters?"

"Forgive the extra post
is already ordered! You have here a few miles north between Heath
and swamp forests still be looking a little Flora! "

The good Lord understood us when He sent us down to earth, He knew our need for laughter and
for happy signs of mirth; He knew we couldn't stand it to be solemn all the while, But must
share our joy with others--so He taught us how to smile.

The True Man

This is the sort of a man was he: True when it hurt him a lot to be; Tight in a corner an'
knowin' a lie Would have helped him out, but he wouldn't buy His freedom there in so cheap
a way-- He told the truth though he had to pay.

Honest! Not in the easy sense, When he needn't worry about expense-- We'll all play square
when it doesn't count And the sum at stake's not a large amount-- But he was square when the
times were bad, An' keepin' his word took all he had.

Honor is something we all profess, But most of us cheat--some more, some less-- An' the real
test isn't the way we do When there isn't a pinch in either shoe; It's whether we're true to
our best or not When the right thing's certain to hurt a lot.

That is the sort of a man was he: Straight when it hurt him a lot to be; Times when a lie would
have paid him well, No matter the cost, the truth he'd tell; An' he'd rather go down to a drab
defeat Than save himself if he had to cheat.

Cleaning the Furnace

Last night Pa said to Ma: "My dear, it's gettin' on to fall, It's time I did a little job I
do not like at all. I wisht 'at I was rich enough to hire a man to do The dirty work around
this house an' clean up when he's through, But since I'm not, I'm truly glad that I am strong
an' stout, An' ain't ashamed to go myself an' clean the furnace out."

Then after supper Pa put on his overalls an' said He'd work down in the cellar till 'twas time
to go to bed. He started in to rattle an' to bang an' poke an' stir, An' the dust began a-climbin'
up through every register Till Ma said: "Goodness gracious; go an' shut those things up tight
Or we'll all be suffocated an' the house will be a sight." Let me
to be an ordinary person! Why do you persecute me? Why did you destroy me? "

"Goal!" Said the bounty. "I did not deliberately evil. I gave you a great reward but I can take
you back when it pleases thee not.

But remember you well - you'll regret it! "

"No, no, 'he cried," take the miraculous gifts from me! "

"First you have to destroy it here," she said and threw the wheel of fire in front of him to the
ground.

He thought not. He swung the big hammer on the bright fire,
sun, nothing was more than ugly Zauberkram if they are not applied
for the benefit of thousands could. The sparks flew around in the
forge, flames and shards danced around him, and then was his last
work of art there in ruins.

Trouble Brings Friends

It's seldom trouble comes alone. I've noticed this: When things go wrong An' trouble comes
a-visitin', it always brings a friend along; Sometimes it's one you've known before, and then
perhaps it's someone new Who stretches out a helping hand an' stops to see what he can do.

If never trials came to us, if grief an' sorrow passed us by, If every day the sun came out
an' clouds were never in the sky, We'd still have neighbors, I suppose, each one pursuin' selfish
ends, But only neighbors they would be--we'd never know them as our friends. In the interval between the two fairy tales we thought back to our boyhood. In our Home was a maid,
the red Hanne, from her birthplace in Wiesensteig Filstal a had brought gushing wealth of fairy
tales.

