W.A.G.'S TALE

EDITED BY

MARGARET TURNBULL

WITH ZOBZEE ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR

CONTENTS

PREFACE BY AUTHOR

I.    UNCLE BURT'S BILLY II.   OUR HOUSE III.  OUR NEXT-DOOR NEIGHBOR IV.   ON THE TOWPATH
V.    ON THE DELAWARE VI.   GEORGE VII.  LEFT ALONE VIII. AT TURNER'S IX.   THE WHITE TENT

ILLUSTRATIONS

I STARTED TO GET BETTER AND WRITE THIS BOOK (p. 153) (colored) Frontispiece From a drawing
by M.L. Kirk

A ZOBZEE

ON THE BRIDGE

HE JUMPED OUT AND TOOK A ROPE AND PULLED THE BOAT CLOSE

SHE WASHED AND I DRIED

HE TURNED AND WENT INTO THE WHITE STONE HOUSE, AND ALL THE CATS RAN AFTER HIM

HE SMOKED A PIPE, AND I PLAYED WITH ALL HIS TEDDY-CATS

BRINGS HIM DOWN, PERSIMMONS AND ALL

SO I TOOK MY FISHING-ROD AND FLICKED IT AT HIM

NEVER YOU MIND, BABY DEAR, COME ON

WHAT'S AN ABSENT-MINDED BEGGAR?

HEY, ROBINSON CRUSOE, HERE'S YOUR MAN FRIDAY

HE HAD TO TAKE A CAN-OPENER AND CUT AUNTY EDITH'S FOOT OUT

WE ALL WORKED WITH HOSE AND EVERYTHING

AUNTY MAY GOT A HATCHET AND MADE A CHOP AT THE SNAKE

I BELIEVED THEY HAD REALLY GONE AWAY, AND LEFT ME ALL ALONE

I TOLD HIM ALL ABOUT AUNTY MAY

SLID DOWN WITHOUT A BIT OF NOISE

I WOKE UP AND FOUND MYSELF LYING ON THE PORCH

AND IT WAS UNCLE BURT

W.A.G.'S TALE

PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR

I have been sick. Now I am better the Doctor makes me lie in bed because of all that Anti-toxin
he put in me, which weakens the heart. Anti-toxin isn't a lady, it's a medicine for diphtheria.
Aunty May is a lady. She reads me books and plays games with me. But I am tired of books written
about nature, and animals, and Indians, and fairies, and I wished out loud that somebody would
write a book about a boy, just like me. So to-day Aunty May brought me a big, thick blank book
with red covers, and with rings at the back to let me add more paper when I want to, and she
told me to write my own story, a little every day.

So that's what I am going to do, and illustrate it with "Zobzees." "Zobzees" are thin dancing
people--like this. I invented that name, and a country and a language for them, which only
Aunty May and I know. But I am not going to write my book in that. I am going to print it,
like other books, but draw "Zobzees" because they are easy; and if nobody else reads it except
me and Uncle Burt when he comes home, it will be fun for us, anyway.

CHAPTER I

UNCLE BURT'S BILLY

My name is William Ainsworth Gordon, and my initials spell W.A.G. That is why Aunty May and
I call this book "W.A.G.'S TALE." If it was about a dog it would be "Tail Wags." So it's true
and a joke too.

I am ten years old and my father and mother are in Heaven, and I have only Uncle Burt to take
care of me. Uncle Burt isn't my real uncle, but he was my father's chum when they were at West
Point, and he promised father to take care of me. And he does, only he had to go to the Philippines
with his soldiers; so his sister, Aunty Edith, is taking care of me until he comes back. Everybody
else calls me William, but he calls me "Billy," so I am the one this chapter is named after.

Aunty May says I can begin with the very day Aunty Edith brought me down here. That was the
day Uncle Burt went away to join his regiment, and everybody was sort of quiet, and even the
big people cried a little. I cried a good deal, when nobody was looking, and when Uncle Burt
caught me at it in the corner of the room, he didn't say a word, but just picked me up and
held me so tight that one of his buttons got stamped on my cheek like a seal. He said he'd
give way and cry, too, for it was good for the eyes, only his Colonel had expressly ordered
him not to, saying he would leave all red-eyed men home, which would be terrible for a soldier.
So I begged him not to give way, and he said he wouldn't if I'd stop, because one fellow bawling
makes it hard for the other fellow not to. So I stopped and we laughed a little, and then he
showed the mark on my cheek to Aunty Edith, and said, "This shows that this young man belongs
to me, so be careful of Uncle Burt's Billy and return him in good condition, for there will
be a dreadful time if I find him chipped or broken, when I come back."

Then the lady I call Aunty May, though she isn't any relation to me either, but is just Aunty
Edith's friend, laughed and said she would be careful to treat me nicely. And she has. I like
her best next to Uncle Burt. She didn't cry. She laughed a lot, and every time Uncle Burt got
sad and tried to talk to her, she laughed more, and she took me on her lap and kept me there
all the time Uncle Burt was saying good-bye to her.

He looked more like crying then than any other time. He said, "Good-bye, May; won't you change
your mind?" and she said, "Oh, no, Burt, I can't." Then he was going to say something else
when I said, "Remember the Colonel, Uncle Burt, and don't get your eyes too red to go," and
then they both laughed. Uncle Burt said, "Look after Miss Heath for me, Billy, while I'm gone,"
and I said, "Sure I will. I'm going to adopt her as my Aunty, too." She put her arms round
me and hugged me and Uncle Burt said, "Lucky Billy," and then the door closed, and Aunty Edith
began to cry and Aunty May looked queer for a minute and went to the door. I thought she'd
run after him, but she stopped and said, "Come along, Sir William, and we'll pack our bags,
'cause we're all going to the country on the 3.10." And I took hold of her hand, and we went
upstairs together, and packed my bag and put in my gun, my soldiers, my books and my paint-box.
Then Aunty Edith stopped crying and tied a veil over her face. If she'd been a soldier she'd
been left home all right.

We got in a taxi with a lot of bags and things and went to the Pennsylvania Station, which
is miles and miles long, I think, but there are lots of kind black men who wear red caps and
run up and take your bags and carry them for you just as easy, One of them took my bag and
Aunty May's suitcase, but Aunty Edith had another one--a fat one--all alone for her things.

We just had time for our train, so we had to hurry right through the waiting-room, and I couldn't
stop and see all the things there are to see, or watch the people coming down the stairs. People's
legs are funny if you watch them coming down--like things made with hinges.

Then we got into a nice big train with chairs in it that swung round. They call it a "Pullman"
which is a good name for a car, only it's the engine that pulls the man and the car, too, really.
Then we got all comfortable, with another nice colored man who showed his teeth at us, and
put our bags up on a rack, and Aunty May gave me some sweet chocolate and a magazine with pictures
in it, and Aunty Edith said. "I wish we didn't have to change at Trenton,"--and--then--I fell
asleep.

The next thing I knew Aunty May was saying to me, "Wake up, Billy, dear, it's Trenton now."
She put on my jacket and the man took our bags again and we stepped out on a big platform,
and then another man took all our bags and we went up one stair, and down another, and waited
on a long platform, where trains kept shooting up every minute.

I couldn't understand what the man in uniform said, until at last a funny little train--all
short, only half as long as our New York one, and with funny, hard straight seats--came, and
we climbed in. Aunty Edith and Aunty May and me had to carry our own bags and fix 'em. The
train waited a long time, but at last it moved, and Aunty May put her arm round me and sat
me next the window, only it wasn't open, because it was only April and wasn't warm enough yet,
and said, "Now we're off to East Penniwell."

The train just crawled along, and there was a big canal on the one side. I saw a canal boat
with two men and a dog on it, and they were cooking something in a big pot on the top of a
stove that stood right out of doors, on top of the boat, with a stovepipe that didn't go into
any chimney, but right up into the air--with smoke coming out of it!

I showed it to Aunty May and she said, "You will see them every day when we get to the towpath,"
and I felt awful glad at that, because though the boat moved slow, the train moved fast, and
I didn't get a good look at the boy who was driving the mules. I couldn't be sure whether he'd
made a face at me or not, but I think he did.

Then by and by on the other side of the train came a great big river, all fast and running
along and some bubbling-up places in it where rocks stood up. Aunty May said those were rapids
and this was the Delaware River, the one Washington crossed.

I think more of him than ever, now I've seen the river, for it's good and wide and it must
have been a cold job getting over it. I told Aunty May I hoped it wasn't at the rapids he tried
to cross, and she said, "Oh, no," and "I'll show you," and presently the train stopped and
the conductor said, "Washington's Crossing," There was a big tree, where he could have tied
a boat if he'd wanted to. Aunty May said maybe he did; and a white house where I guess the
soldiers got something to eat and drink. Anyway, I hoped so. Aunty May said she'd never asked,
so she couldn't say, positively, as it was so long ago, but it wouldn't hurt to think they
did. So I imagined it that way.

Then our train stopped at a station and we got out. I hadn't been ready for its stopping, and
I got so busy getting my things on, and getting my bag in my hand, that I didn't hear the name
of it, and I asked Aunty May if it was East Penniwell, and she said, "Oh, no, this is Scrubbsville,
New Jersey, and East Penniwell is in Pennsylvania."

"Will we get into another train, then?" I asked, and Aunty May laughed and said, "Oh, no, just
wait and see." Then we got off and walked down, carrying our bags, to a big bridge right over
the Delaware.

There was a man sitting, at the end of the bridge, in a little house with a window in it, and
you paid him two cents apiece before you could get on the bridge to go to Pennsylvania. He
is the Toll-Man and it is a Toll-Bridge, and it seemed to me very funny to have to pay to walk.
Aunty May said it was funny, too, but Aunty Edith said it was a nuisance.

Aunty Edith asked the Toll-Man if we could leave our big suitcase there, until Mr. Tree the
grocer came over with a wagon for our trunks, later, and he said, "Yes." He was a nice smiling man.

Then Aunty Edith and Aunty May and I, and Aunty Edith's bag and my little one, which Aunty
May carried because she said we had a long walk ahead of us, went over the bridge.

The wind almost blew my cap away, but I caught it just in time, and on the bridge we met a
big man carrying a paint-box and a folding-up stool, like Aunty Edith has, and he had an E-normous
dog, as big as me, and it galumphed at me, and I got behind Aunty Edith, for she is very big
both ways, and the man said, "Down, Pete," When the dog downed, he shook hands with Aunty Edith,
and she introduced him to Aunty May and me, and he said he was glad to see us, and I could
come and play with his children up the towpath.

I said, "Yes, sir," but Aunty May and me kept away from Pete, because we didn't know him then.
We know him now and like him. The man said, "Wait till I get back and I'll take you up in the
launch." Then he went on to Scrubbsville, and Aunty Edith said, "Such a pleasure to meet Mr.
Turner. Now William won't get tired walking up. Won't that be nice, William, to go up the canal
in the launch, instead of walking?" I said, "Yes, 'm, Aunty Edith," to her, but to Aunty May
I said, "Will that Pete be in the boat, too?" and Aunty May whispered back, "Ow Gracious! I
hope not. But don't let him know we're afraid, old man." So I took her hand tight and we followed
Aunty Edith, who is an awful fast walker and always has so many things to do.

First we went to the Post-Office, which is a little wooden building, and the Postmaster knows
everybody and looks at you over his glasses. Then we went up a funny street with brick pavements,
awful old. There are houses on that very street built before the Revolution, and a big cannon
in the square. We went to Mr. Tree's, and he's a nice, big grocer man, with everything in his
shop, and he patted me on the head and gave me a chocolate candy, which Aunty Edith said I
might eat, if I ate it slowly. He said he would bring our trunks and bags up right away. Aunty
Edith said, "Now I've got to order oil from Tryer and coal from Quick and some thread from
Miss Macfarland's notion store," and I said, "Why don't the servants do all that, Aunty Edith?"
She laughed and said, "There are no servants for us at East Penniwell, William; we do the work
ourselves," Aunty May said, "But it will be fun, Billy. All the artists like Aunty Edith live
that way down here, and you and I will be the writer people and we'll do lots of funny things
together. Only, Edith," she said, "the boy and I are weary; where can we rest while you finish
your shopping?"

"Oh, very well," Aunty Edith said; "come and I'll show you the launch and you can get in that
and sit and wait for Mr. Turner."

We walked up a funny, hilly, crooked street, with partly brick pavements again and partly stone,
till we came to an old wooden bridge over a canal, and then Aunty May squeezed my hand and
said, "Billy, this is our canal," We crossed the bridge, and went down a few steps and there
was Mr. Turner's launch. We got in and sat and watched the water and made up stories to each
other, till Aunty Edith and Mr. Turner came, all full of bundles. Mr. Turner started the launch
and we went chug-chugging along. But Pete didn't get in. He swam part of the time and ran and
barked on the towpath the other part.

The canal boats came down past us, and they began to have lights on them, and the trees were
all green and hung down by the canal banks, and I could see where the dogwood was beginning
to come out in the woods. There were some ducks swimming in the canal, and a farmhouse high
above us on the bank. Then nothing but the towpath, which is the path on one side of the canal
where the mules walk when they drag the canal boats.

By and by I saw two tiny white houses, with their roofs and chimneys sticking up over the canal
bank, and one of them had a funny green door, and honeysuckle all growing over the fence. Mr.
Turner never stopped till Aunty Edith called, "Oh, we're going past," Then he stopped and jumped
out and took a rope and pulled the boat close to the bank, where there were some stones placed
like steps. I saw the two houses plainly then, one a white stone one and one a white wooden
one with a green door.

We all stepped out, with our bags, and said good-bye to Mr. Turner, and his launch went away
up the canal past us, and Aunty Edith took a key out of her pocket and went down a step, into
the garden of the house with the green door, and opened it, and said to Aunty May and me, "Come
in, children. This is OUR HOUSE."

CHAPTER II

OUR HOUSE

Aunty May and I went inside, and we looked at each other and laughed. It was small, like a
doll's house, and the room we stepped into, through the doorway, had a window the same side
as the door, which looked out on the towpath, and two windows at the back, and a stovepipe
coming right out of the floor and running up through the low ceiling.

When I went and looked out of the back windows, I called to Aunty May, "Oh, see, it's the Delaware."
And it was.

There, right at the foot of our back garden, under the willow trees, was the Delaware River,
running along, very fast.

I said, "Come on, let's go down to the river, Aunty May." But Aunty Edith said, "First, look
at the house."

We went through a little door into another long, narrow, low room, with a window on the towpath
and a window on the river, and a queer old-fashioned bureau and two iron beds in it, and a
clothes-horse, in one corner, covered with muslin. When you opened one flap of it, it was a
closet. This was Aunty Edith and Aunty May's room.

In the other room, with the stovepipe in the middle of it, was a big couch, and that was to
be my bed at night. There was a big closet at one end, made out of the place where the steps
went up to the attic, and that was where my clothes were to hang. One side of the room had
bookshelves, and on the wall were some of Aunty Edith's paintings; and there was a doorway
at one end without any door.

I said to Aunty Edith, "How do we get to the river from this house? Do we have to go out of
the front door and run down? And where's the stove that the pipe belongs to? Is it in a cellar?"
Then both the aunties laughed, and they went to this doorway without any door, and there was
a funny thing that looked like a clumsy ladder. Aunty Edith told me those were our best stairs,
and that once they were canal boat stairs.

Well, you climbed down them very carefully, for they tipped a little, and you landed on a dark
little landing with a door. You opened the door and stepped down a step and there you were
in the nicest old kitchen you ever saw!

The top part of the house was wooden, but this under part was of stone and cement, and the
walls inside were cement, and the ceiling was just wood with the big floor beams showing through.
And there was a door with glass in the top, that you could look through down to the river and
the willows; and there was a window with a deep window seat you could sit in and look at the
river; then there was a long window at the side, where the outside steps came down from the
towpath, and that opened in two halves and had narrow panes of glass. It looked out on a garden.

A big cook-stove, with a kettle steaming on it, was at one end of the room; and a nice big
table, and there were some comfortable chairs, and pots and pans hanging over and under the
mantel back of the stove.

There was a rug on the floor, and a pantry with lots of good things to eat in it, and a big
couch that I sat down on, and looked around.

There was a little place in the wall, too, that had once been a window, but was closed up and
made into a little cupboard for dishes.

I said, "My! isn't this lovely?" Aunty May squeezed my hand and said it was, and Aunty Edith
looked around and said, "Well, Mrs. Katy Smith did get my postal in time, after all. I'm so
glad, because if she hadn't, it wouldn't have been so nice and clean in here, and there would
have been no fire. Now, I'm going to take off my things and make a supper for us all."

Aunty May said, "I'll help you," but Aunty Edith said, "Not this first time, May. You take
the boy out and show him the garden and the river,"

So Aunty May and I took hold of hands and went out, and there was a long flower-bed running
right down to the river-bank, on both sides of a long grassplot; and beyond the grass and flowers
was a lot of ploughed land for vegetables and things; and beyond that there were a lot of woods.
There was a path between the grassplot and the flower-bed next the fence of our neighbor, in
the white stone house, and we went down that, and when we came to the end of the flower-bed
there was a big apple tree, and then we went under that and stood on the river-bank, and there
was the Delaware!

Under the biggest willow tree there was a seat made of an old box, and Aunty May and I sat
down for a minute and looked at the river. It was so clear that I could see the little fishes
swimming along, and I threw a stick in it, and it went by so fast that Aunty May said, "My!
how swift the current is. You must be careful, Billy-boy, and not go near the edge when you
are alone." I said, "Yes, 'm, but I am to go in wading when it gets warmer."

We went along the bank a little farther, and there were more trees, cherry trees, and willow
trees, and buttonwood trees, and lots of nice places for us to put our hammocks. Then we went
back to the house, and there was Aunty Edith in a big gingham apron toasting bread and making
chocolate. I laughed and said, "Oh, Aunty Edith, I never saw you look like that in the city."
Then we all laughed, and Aunty Edith said, "You will see me look like this very often down
here, for we all have to do our share of the work. You, too, Billy. You will have to help us."
I said, "That will be bully."

Aunty May set the table, and we all sat down and ate our toast and ham and eggs, and drank
our chocolate, and I thought it was better than anything I had ever eaten.

Just when we were in the middle of it, I heard footsteps crunching along the walk, and down
the steps at the side of the house from the towpath. I called, "Some one's coming." Aunty Edith
went to the door.

It was Mr. Tree with the trunks and the suitcase. He said, "Hullo, young fellow. Have you come
to take care of these ladies?" And I said, "Yes, sir"; and he said, "That's right. Look after
'em. It'll be a load off my mind to know they've got a man on the premises. It's right lonely
up here." And I told him we wasn't afraid. I asked him if he needed any help, but he said no,
and he was so terrible big and strong that he lifted the trunks as if they were boxes.

After he had gone, Aunty Edith said she must unpack, and Aunty May said, "Do, Edith; Billy
and I will do the dishes."

So Aunty May tied a big clean towel around my waist, and she washed and I dried. There was
no running water, just a pump outside the kitchen shed, right out of doors.

I pumped for Aunty May and we had a lovely time. We played a game with the dishes. Plates were
ladies and saucers were little girls, and cups were little boys, and knives and forks were
policemen and spoons were servants. We had a lot of fun, when the knives and forks marched
round the table, and ordered the other dishes into the cupboard.

After that was done, Aunty May said she must go upstairs and help Aunty Edith, and unpack her
own typewriter. Aunty May writes stories, too, only she uses a typewriter and I use a pencil.

Aunty May asked me whether I'd sit in the window seat and read a picture-book or would I explore
the garden. I said I would do both; look at pictures a little while and go in the garden. Aunty
May made me promise not to go too near the river, or too far down the towpath.

Then she went upstairs and I read a little till I had enough of reading, and I thought I'd
go to the towpath, but first, as I was thirsty, I thought I'd get a glass and take a drink
at the pump. But when I tried to pump, the pump-handle just went up in the air, and wouldn't
pump up any water!

And just as I tried it again, I heard somebody say, "That pump handle oughter been left up
in the air. Say, young feller, you gotter pour some water down first. That pump ain't been
used stiddy for some little while back. Ease it up and she'll go all right."

I turned around, and there, leaning against the fence, was an old man with big blue eyes and
a white mustache, and a pipe, and a plaid vest and a soft hat, and the biggest lot of cats
I ever saw. Seven of them, white and gray and black and mixed colors, all looking up at me.

I was so surprised that I didn't know what to say. But the old gentleman said, "Wait here,
and I'll fetch you a kittle of water," and he turned and went into the white stone house, and
all the cats ran after him. But he shut the door tight, and the cats sat waiting and mewing
on the back porch, and I held on to the pump-handle and waited too.

CHAPTER III

