"I will watch all three of them! You shall know all!" murmured Justine, as she stole away,
not without the kisses of her secret knight burning upon her lips.

"What a consummate actress!" mused Alan Hawke, when, for the first time, since Nadine Johnstone's
arrival, a formal dinner party enlivened the dull monotony of the marble house. The round table,
set for five, gave Hugh Johnstone the strategic advantage of separating his secret enemy from
his blushing daughter. Hawke demurely paid his devoirs to Madame Justine Delande, with a finely
studied inattention to either the guest of the evening or the beautiful girl who only murmured
a few words when presented to her father's only visitor. "I wonder if Justine, poor soul, will
see the resemblance?" It had been a triumph of art, Madame Berthe Louison's magnificent dinner
toilette, those rich robes which effaced the opening-rose beauty of the slim girl in the simplicity
of her rare Indian lawn frock. Rich color and flowers and diamonds heightened the splendid
loveliness of the woman who "looked like a queen in a play that night."

Alas, for Justine Delande, she was so busied with her mute telegraphy to Alan Hawke that she
never saw the startling family likeness of the two women so eagerly watched by Hugh Johnstone.
But the keen-eyed Alan Hawke saw the girl's fascinated gaze. He noted her virginal bosom heaving
in a new and strange emotion. He marked the tender challenge of her dreamy eyes as Berthe Louison's
loving soul spoke out to the radiant young beauty only held away from her heart by the stern
old skeleton at the feast.

The long-drawn-out splendors of the feast were over, and the ladies had, at last, retired.
Hawke observed the stony glare with which Johnstone whispered a few words of command to Justine
Delande, when the two men sought the smoking-room.

The door was hardly closed upon them when the coffee and cigars were served, when Johnstone,
striding forward, locked the door.

"See here, Hawke!" abruptly said the host "I want you to serve me to-night, and to stand by
me while this she-devil is in Delhi. I've got to run down to Calcutta on business for a few
days. She will not be here. She has some business of her own down there, also. First, find
out for me, for God's sake, all about her. How she came here; where she hides in Europe; who
her friends are. When you are able to, you can follow her over the world. I'll foot the bill,
as the Yankees say.

"Now, to-night, I wish you to take your leave conventionally. Get away at once, and go immediately
and telegraph to Anstruther in London. No, don't deny you are intimate with him. I know it.
Telegraph him that I am in a position, now, to trace out and restore those missing jewels.
The secret of their hiding is mine at last. Here's a hundred pounds. Don't spare your words.
Within a month they will be in the hands of the Viceroy. I have to play a part to get them--a
dangerous part. I pledge my whole estate to back this. But I must have my Baronetcy so that
I can leave India, for I fear the vengeance of the devils who robbed the captured Princes of Oude.

"Once in England, I am safe. I'll not leave till I get the Baronetcy, and the jewels will not
be delivered up until I get it. I am closely watched here."

Hawke's eyes burned fiercely. "And if I was to take the train and tell the Viceroy this?" he
boldly said.

"Then I would say that you had lied--that is all."

"What do I get?" coolly demanded Hawke.

"Five thousand pounds the day that I get my Baronetcy," quietly replied Johnstone.

"I'll not do it," hotly cried Hawke. "You might say I lied," he sneered. "I want it now!"

The two men glared at each other in a mutual distrust. Hugh Johnstone pondered a moment, and
said deliberately:

"I'll give you five accepted drafts for a thousand pounds each, when I return from Calcutta,
on Glyn, Carr & Glyn, my London bankers, dated thirty days apart. That will make you sure of
your money, and me, sure of my Baronetcy. Will you act?" Hawke knocked the ash off his Havana
lightly.

"Yes, if you give me a thousand pounds cash bonus now! I am deliberately misleading Anstruther
to help you. And I risk my own place to do it."

"All right," said Johnstone as he left the room, and in a few moments returned with a check-book.
"There's your thousand pounds. Now listen. Not a word to old General Willoughby. He is a meddlesome
old sot. I shall slip away quietly. To deceive the Delhi scandal-mongers you must call here
every day in my absence. Mademoiselle Delande will receive you. My daughter, of course, sees
no one in my absence. And you can inform Delhi secretly, guardedly, that Madame Berthe Louison
is an art enthusiast, a Frenchwoman of rank and fortune, and one who, in her short stay, only
studies the wonders of old Oude. I don't want this damned pack of local lady-killers--the lobster-backs--to
get after her. Do you understand? I'll have further use for you. I may retire to Europe. You
can trust the Swiss woman. I will give her my orders."

"All right! I will go and telegraph as soon as I can make my adieux. When do you start for
Calcutta?" Hawke asked warily.

"The moment you get Anstruther's reply," decisively replied Johnstone. "I'll be away for a
couple of weeks in all!" Hawke turned paler than his wont, but he mused in silence and cheerfully
finished his coffee and cognac. In half an hour, he left an aching void in Justine Delande's
bosom, but some subtle magnetism had so drawn Berthe Louison and the heart-stirred Justine
together that Hugh Johnstone was happy, when, with courtly gallantry, he escorted the beauty,
who had set Delhi all agog, to her garden-bowered nest.

"Have I kept my compact?" said Berthe, as they stood once more in her "tiger's den."

"You have, madame!" said Hugh Johnstone. "I have been considering all. I will leave secretly
for Calcutta in two or three days. You had better follow me in a week. I have some private
business there. I will ask my friend, Major Hawke, to show you the environs. You can trust
him. Telegraph me to Grindlay's Bank, Calcutta, of your arrival. I will meet you. Our business
transacted, we can return together on the same train. All will then be safe." His own secret
preparations were all made.

"I agree to all," said Berthe. "And, as to Nadine?"

Johnstone turned with blazing eyes, "You are to see her each day, at her own home, in the presence
of Justine Delande. She will have my orders. Remember our compact! All your future association
with her depends on your prudence. I will not be betrayed or openly disgraced!" His face was
as black as a murderer caught in the act.

"I remember!" said the beauty of the Bungalow.

"To mystify the fools here, if I will bring my daughter and take you for a drive, each day
at four, till I go," said Johnstone. "And, then, I'll have Hawke show you the city." He bowed,
and at once disappeared, leaving his enemy laughing. But he grinned.

"If she knew that I go to meet Douglas Fraser, my lady would pass an uneasy night! I hold the
trump cards now!"

Major Alan Hawke smiled grimly the next day, when he presented to Hugh Johnstone a neatly got
up cipher, answering dispatch in code words which had cost Ram Lal just half of the bribe which
Hawke gave him for the sly Hindu telegraph clerk.

"Ah! Anstruther was prompt!" said the neatly tricked nabob, when Hawke translated:

"Intelligence gratifying. Name approved and on list. Appointment sure!" Three days later, Delhi
missed Hugh Johnstone from the afternoon drives, which showed Madame Louison and Nadine to
an eager bevy of Madame Grundys. But the envied of all men was Major Alan Hawke, escorting
Madame Louison for a week over the storied plains of the Jumna.

When Madame Berthe Louison and her two body servants took the Calcutta train, local society
jumped to its sage conclusion.

"Old Hugh will lead the beautiful Countess to the altar, while Major Alan Hawke will bear off
the Rosebud of Delhi, and so become the richest son-in-law in India." But the handsome Alan
Hawke, each morning lingering with Justine Delande in the grounds of the marble house, never
saw the face of Nadine Johnstone. The beautiful girl breathlessly awaited her new-made friend's
return. But stern old Hugh Johnstone, at Calcutta, laughed as he thought of his own secret
coup de main.

"Wait! Wait till I return!" he gloated. "She is powerless now!"

CHAPTER VIII. HARRY HARDWICKE TAKES THE GATE NEATLY.

In the few days succeeding Hugh Johnstone's still unsuspected departure, the dull fires of
a growing jealousy burned and smouldered in Captain Harry Hardwicke's agitated heart. The old
nabob had neatly slipped away in the night, on a special engine, and the Captain heard all
the growing tattle of Delhi, as to the social activity at the marble house. The open hospitable
board of General Willoughby rang with the very wildest rumors. Alan Hawke seemed to be the
"Prince Charming" of the hidden festivities.

Hardwicke, on the eve of his Majority, now darkly moped in his rooms, undecided to apply for
a long home leave, unwilling to leave Delhi, and even afraid to ask his general for any positive
favor as to a future station. Club and mess bandied the freest tattle as to old Hugh Johnstone's
lovely "importation." Men eyed the prosperous Major Alan Hawke on his rising pathway with a
growing envy. There was a smart coterie who now firmly believed that the Major's only "secret
business" was to marry the Rose of Delhi, and then, departing on an extended honeymoon, leave
the "Diamond Nabob," as the ci-devant Hugh Fraser was called, free to proclaim Madame Berthe
Louison, queen of the marble house, and sharer of his expected dignity, the crown of his life,
the long-coveted Baronetcy. When old Major Verner growled:

"That's the scheme, Hardwicke! My Lady of France makes the condition that the young heiress
shall be settled first. Gad! What a lucky dog Hawke is!" Then, Harry Hardwicke suddenly discovered
that he loved the moonlight beauty of his dreams--the fair veiled Rose of Delhi. Hawke rose
up as a darkly menacing cloud on his future.

His morning rides were now but keen inspections of the Commissioner's garden, and, lingering
on the Chandnee Chouk, he knew, by experiments, conducted with a beating heart, just where
Justine Delande was wont to wander in the lonely labyrinth, with her lovely young charge. A
low double gate, a break in the high stone wall, often gave him glimpses of the two women in
their morning rambles and, with a softened feeling, born of her own secret passion for Hawke,
Justine Delande watched a fluttering handkerchief often answer Captain Hardwicke's morning salute.

"Tell me, Justine," said Nadine, the morning after Hugh Johnstone had stolen away, "Why does
my father not ask Major Hardwicke to visit us? He is to be promoted for his superb gallantry,
he is so brave--so noble! He certainly has as many claims to honor as this--this Major Hawke--whom
my father has made his confidant. I don't know why, but I don't like that man!"

"What do you know of Major Hardwicke, as you call him?" cried Justine in wonder at Miss Nadine's
growing interest.

"Ah!" the agitated girl cried with blushing cheeks, "Mrs. Willoughby told me how he dragged
his wounded friend out of a storm of Afghan balls, and gave her back the child of her heart.
It was General Willoughby who got him his Victoria Cross. And, she says that he is a hero,
he is so gentle and manly--so gifted--a man destined to be a commanding general yet." The guilty
Swiss woman dared not raise her eyes to watch the fleeting blushes on Nadine's cheeks.

"It is time, high time we leave India," she mused, and then, the thought of separation from
Alan Hawke chilled her blood. "Let us go in," she said. "The grass is damp yet." Captain Hardwicke's
argus eyes, love inspired, were now daily fixed on the marble house. He scoured Delhi and amassed
a pyramid of detached fragmentary gossip in all his alarm, but one star of hope cheered him.
Though Major Hawke was known as the only cavalier of Madame Louison, save the old nabob, now
supposed to be ill at home; though Hawke drove out for a week with the lovely countess--to
the great surprise of the local society, the handsome renegade had never once been seen in
public with Miss Nadine Johnstone. Stranger still, the star-eyed Madame Berthe Louison had
never accompanied the young heiress in the regular afternoon parade en voiture. "There's a
mystery here," mused the lover. "Old Hugh and the Major appear daily with the Frenchwoman,
but Nadine Johnstone has never been seen alone with anyone save her father, or this Swiss duenna.
Hawke is making slow progress there, if any." Meeting old Simpson, the nabob's butler, Captain
Hardwicke tipped him with a five-pound note. The old retired soldier grinned and opened his
confidence.

"The Major! Bless your stars!" gabbled Simpson, "She's a straightaway angel, and not for the
likes of him! Major Hawke has a dark spot or two in his record--away back!" grumbled Simpson,
"No, Captain! Major Hawke has never set eyes on her for a single moment, but the one night
of that dinner. By the way, it is the only one we ever gave!" The butler swelled up proudly.

"That night she never lifted her eyes, nor spoke even a word to him. He comes to see the Guv'nor
on business, an' mighty private business it is. They're locked up together often."

"And, this marrying? The stories are now told everywhere?" queried Hardwicke, blushing, but
desperately remembering that "all is fair in love and war." He, an incipient Major, a V. C.--"pumping"
an old private soldier.

"Rank rot!" frankly said the butler, "They're all strangers. The French countess is only sight-seeing
here and buying out old Ram Lal's shop. The old thief! She brought letters to the Guv'nor!
That's all! He's no special fancy to her, and he set Major Hawke on just to do the amiable.
The Guv'nor's far too old to beau the lady around. Marry?--not him! And Miss Nadine's just
as silent as a flower in one of them gold vases. All she does is to look pretty and keep still,
poor lamb. Her music, her books, her flowers, her birds. And as to Major Hawke and this Madame
Louison--I've the Guv'nor's own orders they are never to see Miss Nadine. That is, Hawke not
at all, and the lady only when Miss Delande is present! Them's my solid orders, and the old
Guv'nor put my eye out with a ten-pound note--the first I ever got from him. No, Captain! You've
done the handsome by me, and I give you the straight tip--wasn't I in the old Eighth Hussars
with your father when we charged the rebel camp at Lucknow? I've got a tulwar yet that I cut
out of the hand of a 'pandy' who was hacking away at Colonel Hardwicke."

"How did you get it, Simpson?" cried the young Captain.

"I got arm and all! Took it off with a right cut! You may know, Cap'n, that we ground our sabers
in those old days! No, sir! Miss Nadine's for none of them people, and Hawke is only in the
house for business. He's a deep one--is that same Hawke," concluded Simpson, pocketing his note.

Captain Hardwicke began to see the light dawning. "Alan Hawke has then some secret business
scheme with the old money grubber that's all," mused the young engineer officer, happy at heart.
"I'll fight a bit shy of him. His scheme may take the girl in. So, old Johnstone's away a few
days. Perhaps settling his affairs before his departure. I think," the lover mused, "I will
follow them to Europe, if they go, and, if they stay, Willoughby will ask for my retention,
and, after all, 'faint heart never won fair lady.' Hawke is not an open suitor. If the old
man should ever marry this French beauty, I may find the pathway open to Nadine Johnstone's side!"

So, with a "fighting chance," Captain Hardwicke determined that Miss Nadine should know his
heart before long, and have also a chance to know her own mind. "The fact is, the old boy has
lived the life of a recluse, that's all, but I'll find a way to pierce the shell of his moroseness.
There's one comfort," he smiled, "No other fellow is making any running."

In these swiftly gliding days of absence, Ram Lal Singh and the watchful Major Alan Hawke conferred
at length over narghileh and glass. A sullen discontent had settled down on Hawke's brow when
Berthe Louison publicly departed upon her business trip with not even a fragmentary confidence.

"Wait for my return, and only watch the marble house," said the Madame. "Do not be foolish
enough to attempt to call on Miss Nadine. I heard Johnstone tell the Swiss woman not to allow
you to follow up any social acquaintance with his daughter. 'I want Nadine to remain a girl
as yet,' growled the old brute. Now, the Swiss woman may be able to give you some information."

"I'll do what I can," carelessly replied Alan Hawke, but his eyes gleamed when she said:

"Do not sulk in your tent. On my return I shall have need of you. You can prepare to go into
action then."

"Where shall I address you at Calcutta?" demanded Hawke. "Something might happen."

"Ah," smiled Berthe Louison. "Nothing will happen. Not a line, not a telegram; send nothing,
come what will! I return here soon, and, besides, Old Johnstone might watch and intercept it.
Remember, we do not know each other. It would be a fatal mistake to write." And so she went
quietly on her way. The house was locked, the Indian servants having the Madame's orders to
admit no one, on any pretense. "Damn her!" growled Alan Hawke, when the door was shut in his
face. "She feared I would give her away to Johnstone. No address! Not a line or a telegram!
Only wait--only wait!"

Ram Lal infuriated him later with the news that nothing could be learned from the baffled spies
of the household in the Silver Bungalow as to the first or second interwiew of Johnstone and
the resolute Alixe Delavigne. "Money will not do it! Not a lac of rupees. The Frenchman and
woman never leave her day or night. He is on guard with weapons and a night light at her door,
and the maid sleeps in the room.

"And she has other secret helpers!" groaned the baffled Ram Lal. "She is writing and receiving
letters all the time. And yet none of these come or go by the post. She does not trust you,
Major," said the jewel merchant, with a cruel gleam of his dark eyes. "I believe that she is
some old love of Sahib Johnstone. They have deep dealings. She has bought a great store of
jewels and trinkets from me."

"Hell and fury! I've been duped!" cried Hawke. "I see it. That damned Frenchman takes and brings
the letters! But who is her local go-between? Perhaps the French Consul at Calcutta, or some
banker here! I can't buy them all. She only needs me in case of a violent rupture with Johnstone.
Damn her stony-hearted impertinence!"

And he mentally resolved to sell her out and out to the liberal old nabob. "He might then give
his daughter to me for peace and safety. But I've got to do the trick before he finds out the
falsity of Anstruther's so-called telegram. And, first, I must have something to sell. She
is the devil's own for sly nerve, is my lady."

"She is too smart for us, as yet," soothingly said Ram Lal. "But wait; wait till they return!
Pay me well and I will find out all that goes on. I can always get into the marble house at
night. At any time, I may spy on old Johnstone and get the secret there. I have a couple of
men of my own in his house. They know where to leave a door, a window, an opened sash for me.
And at the Silver Bungalow, I can go in and out secretly by day and night. She would not know.
You would not wish anything to happen to her?" The old jewel merchant's voice was darkly suggestive.

"No! Devil take her!" cried Hawke. "What I want to know is hidden in her crafty head and stony
heart. Death would bury it forever. Nothing must happen either to her or to him. It would spoil
the whole game. Don't you see, Ram Lal, there's money in this for you and me just as long as
we keep them all here under our hands. If they separate--even if one goes to Europe--you can
watch one and I the other. You can always frighten money out of old Johnstone if we tell each
other all, and I can follow that woman over Europe and dog her till she is driven crazy. She
will fear me just as long as old Hugh Johnstone is alive, for I could sell her out to him.
No one else cares. They must both live to be our bankers. Now tell me, why did either or both
of them go to Calcutta--what for?" Ram Lal figuratively washed his hands in invisible water.

"Running water, passing silently, leaves no story behind, Sahib," he said, simply. "We have
not caught our eels yet. But they are both coming back into our eel pot." And as the days dragged
on Alan Hawke beguiled the time with the most energetic inroads into Justine Delande's heart.

"Some one must break the line of the enemy," darkly mused Alan Hawke, as in the unrestrained
intimacy of their long, morning rides, he influenced the Swiss woman's heart, love-tortured,
to a greater passionate surrender.

"It maybe all in all to me, in my secret career, your future fidelity," he pleaded. '"It will
be all in all to you, and to your sister. There will be your home, the friendship of an enormously
rich woman! The girl will have a million pounds! And you and I, Justine, shall not be cast
off, as one throws away an old sandal." The cowering woman clung closer daily to the man who
now molded her will to his own.

The absence of Johnstone and Madame Louison seemed confirmation of the rumors of coming bridals.

"They will come back, as man and wife!" growled old Verner, to Captain Hardwicke, "and then,
look out for a second bridal! Hawke and the heiress!" But Harry Hardwicke only smiled and bided
his time. His daily morning ride led him to the double gateway, to at least nearby the isolation
of the lovely Rose who was filling his heart with all beauty and brightness.

Major Alan Hawke had withdrawn himself into a stately solitude at the Club. His evenings were
spent with Ram Lal, and his mornings with the deluded Justine, who dared not now write to the
calm-faced preceptress in Geneva how far the tide of love had swept her on. In the long afternoons,
Major Hawke was apparently busied with the "dispatches" which duly mystified the Club quid
mines, as they were ostentatiously displayed in the letter-box. No one but Ram Lal knew of
the abstraction from the mail, and destruction of these carefully sealed envelopes of blank
paper. But the thieving mail clerk in their secret pay, laughed as he consigned them later
to the flames.

The astute Major was not aware that he was being daily watched by secret agents representing
both the absent ones whom he desired to dupe. But a daily letter was dispatched by a local
banker to a well-known Calcutta firm, which reached Madame Louison, and old Hugh Johnstone,
busied at his lawyers, or sitting alone at night with Douglas Fraser in Calcutta, smiled grimly,
when he, too, received his data as to Hawke's progress. A growing coldness which had cut off
Hardwicke's friendship seemed to interest Hugh Johnstone. "I suppose that old Willonghby thinks
Hawke is spying upon him. Just as well!"

There had been a lightning activity in the old man's movements before Madame Louison arrived
in Calcutta. He was fighting for his future peace and his coveted honors. The lawyer with whom
he spent his first day was astounded at the peculiar nature of the last will and testament
which the old nabob ordered him to draft at once. "The steamer, Lord Roberts, goes to-morrow,
and I wish a duplicate to be deposited here in the bank, under your care, as I shall write
to my senior executor regarding it."

The nabob's remark, "Make your fees what you will. I give you carte blanche!" had silenced
the remonstrances which rose to the lawyer's lips. "I know what I am doing, Hodgkinson," said
Hugh Johnstone. "Blood is thicker than water! I can trust nothing else. These two men as executors
will exactly carry out my wishes. In naming a guardian by will, for my daughter, I do not forget
that she is yet a child at eighteen, and, at twenty-one, she may be the destined prey of many
a fortune hunter! As for my directions and restrictions, I know my own mind!"

When Hugh Johnstone, Esq., of Delhi and Calcutta, had seen the fleet steamer, Lord Roberts,
sail away for London, bearing a carefully registered document addressed to "Professor Andrew
Fraser, St. Agnes Road, St. Heliers, Jersey, Channel Islands, England," he could not remember
a detail forgotten in the voluminous letters of positive orders now also on their way to his
distant brother. He smiled grimly as he entered the P. and O. office, and, after a private
interview with the manager, called his nephew, Douglas Fraser, away to a private luncheon.
They had first visited the one bank, which Johnstone trusted, and there deposited a sealed
document to the order of "Douglas Fraser, executor." The young man had been alarmed at his
stern old uncle's curtness, on the return trip from Allahabad, his strange manner and his grim
silence. But he was simply astounded when his nabob relative quietly said:

"I have obtained a six months' leave of absence for you! Let no one know of your movements.
Leave your rooms and baggage just as they are. I will now move in there, and put one of my
servants in charge while you are gone. I have made my will and named your father as my executor
and the guardian of my daughter, and you are to succeed, in case of his death! There will be
a small fortune for you both in the fees, and neither of you are forgotten in the will! I have
drawn two thousand pounds in notes for you, and here is a bank draft on London for three thousand
more!" The young man was sitting in open-mouthed wonder, when the nabob sharply said: "Now!
Have your wits about you! I bear all the expenses here, and your office pay goes on. You will
be promoted on your return. The manager of the P. and O. is my lifelong friend."

"What am I to do?" gasped the young man, fearing his uncle was losing his wits.

"You are to disappear from Calcutta to-night. Go without a word to a living soul! You are neither
to write to a soul in India, nor open your mouth to a human being, in transit. You are to go
by Madras, take the first steamer to Brindisi, and then hurry by rail to Paris and Granville,
and to St. Heliers. You will find your detailed orders there with your father. Then stay there,
await my orders from here, not leaving your father's side, a moment. Now, I tell you again,
your future fortunes depend upon your exact obedience! I will give you my private wishes after
we have had luncheon. The only thing that you will have in writing is an address to which I
wish you to cable each day after you land at Brindisi, until you turn over your business to
your father. You may cable also from Aden and Port Said."

The luncheon was "a short horse and soon curried." For a half an hour Hugh Johnstone earnestly
whispered to his nephew, whose face was grave and ashen. At last the old man concluded, "Here
is a letter to use at Delhi. There will be a telegram already in the hands of the two parties
intended.

"'Remember! You are to go, but once, from here to your lodgings. Then simply disappear! Take
nothing but a mackintosh, an umbrella, and your traveling bag. Buy at Madras what you want.
Here's a couple of hundred pounds. You will find the engine at the station now in waiting for
you. The whole line is open for you. Do your Delhi work at night. The train will be made up
for you the very moment you arrive at Delhi. I give you just one day to connect with the Rangoon
at Madras. You are not for one single moment to lose your charge from sight till on the steamer.
From Brindisi, the directions I have given cover all. Here is an envelope for the Swiss woman
which will make her your friend. Now go, Douglas! This is the foundation of your fortune. If
you succeed, you will have all I leave behind in India. In case of any trouble in India, telegraph
instantly to this address, and I will join you at once. Memorize this address, and destroy
it then! Telegraph to me from Delhi, but only when you start. And, when you sail from Madras,
only the name of the steamer. The trainmen will do the rest. They have their orders already.
Is there anything else?"

The young man pulled himself together. "It's like the Arabian Nights!"

"Go ahead, now, and show yourself a man!" cried Hugh Johnstone, almost in anguish. "I do not
wish to see you again until you have earned your fortune! One last word: You are to make no
explanations whatever!"

The young envoy grasped his kinsman's hands, crying: "You may count on me in life and death!
I'll do your bidding."

Old Johnstone drank a bottle of pale ale and composedly smoked a cheroot, after he had watched
the stalwart, rosy young Briton stride away on his strange journey. A robust, frank-faced,
fine young fellow of twenty-six, with the fair brow and clear blue eyes of the "north countree,"
was manly Douglas Fraser.

Toiling resolutely to rise, step by step, in the service of the Peninsular and Oriental Steamship
Company, he had never dreamed of the sudden favor of his rich kinsman, and yet, loyal as the
good Sir James Douglas, he silently took up his quest.

"I can't understand the old gentleman." he mused as he hurried a half an hour later into the
station, though prudently selected by-streets. "There may be some old official entanglement
hanging over him yet. Some reason why he would quit India quietly, or perhaps some one who
owes him a grudge. At any rate I'll do my duty to him like a man--to him and to the others--like
a gentleman."

Hugh Johnstone measuredly betook his way to Douglas Fraser's lodgings.

Before the old man was settled on Douglas's cozy wicker lounge, the pilot engine was tearing
away with the young voyager, who had simply stepped out of his own life to make a sudden fortune.

"Now, damn you, Alixe Delavigne," hoarsely muttered the old man, when alone, "I will see you
to-morrow! You shall rule me until I get these two coffers out of the bank, and until our home-coming
at Delhi. Then, you jade," he growled, "Ram Lal shall do the business for you, even if it costs
me ten thousand pounds!" which proves that an old tiger may be toothless and yet have left
to him strong claws to drag his prey down. "Money will do anything in India or anywhere else!"
the old nabob growled, forgetting that even all the yellow gold of the Rand or the gleaming
diamonds of the Transvaal will not avail to fill the burned-out lamp of life!

The prolonged absence of the embryo Sir Hugh Johnstone was a matter of public comment in Delhi,
while the knowing ones winked significantly at the almost triumphal departure of Madame Berthe
Louison, whose special car and ample retinue made her a modern European Queen of Sheba. "Tell
you what, fellows," said "Rattler" Murray, otherwise known as "Red Eric, of the Eighth Lancers,"
"the old Commissioner will return superbly 'improved and illustrated' with her, a new edition
of the standard old work. You see, there's a French Consul-General at Calcutta, and then and
there the matrimonial obsequies will be performed. But I'll give him just a year's life," and
the gay lieutenant struck an attitude, quoting the menacing jargon in "Hamlet":

"In second husband, let me be accurst; None wed the second, but who killed the first."

"What infernal rot you do gabble, Murray!" suddenly cried Alan Hawke, dropping a double barrier
of the newest Times, as he prepared to leave the clubroom in disgust. "Hugh Johnstone was only
called down to Calcutta on some important financial business some days ago, and he went there
simply to rearrange some of his large investments. Madame Louison is only a stranger here,
a tourist traveling incognito, and connected with some of the best noble families of France."
With great dignity Major Hawke stalked away to his rooms, leaving the club for a long drive
in disgust.

By the next evening Madame Berthe Louison had been discovered to be a noble relative of the
Comte de Chambord, "traveling incognito," and then the clacking tongues of gossip rose up in
a shrill chorus of greater intensity. Immense investments of the Orleans fortunes in Indian
properties to be managed by Major Alan Hawke were discovered to be the object of her Indian
tour, with wise old Hugh Johnstone as an infallible financial adviser. But Alan Hawke smiled
his superior smile and said nothing.

All this and more soon reached the ears of Capt. Harry Hardwicke, whose fever of gnawing curiosity
and romantically born love was now strong upon him. A second conference with his old friend
Simpson enlightened the engineer officer upon many things, as yet "seen in a glass darkly."
He began to fear that Alan Hawke was growing dangerous as the secret juggler in the strange
social situation at the marble house. With the vise-like memory of an old soldier, Simpson
had retained various anecdotes not entirely to the credit of the self-promoted Major Alan Hawke,
and had partly supplied the hiatus between the sudden disappearance of the desperate lieutenant,
a rake gambler and profligate, and the return of the prosperous and debonnaire Major en re'traite.
"Don't let him work too long around Miss Nadine, Major Hardwicke," said the wary Simpson. "Sly
and quiet as he seems, he's surely here for no good. I know him of old. He's forgotten me, though."

That night, the night when Berthe Louison, in her special car was nearing Calcutta, at last,
Captain Hardwicke was haunted in his dreams by the sweet apparition of Nadine Johnstone, and
her lovely arms were stretched appealingly to him. It was the early dawn when he awoke, and
sprang blithely from his couch. "If that graceful shade crosses my path to-day, I'll speak
to it in the flesh--though a dozen Hawkes and a hundred crusty fathers forbid," he gayly cried,
for his entrancing dream had given him a strangely prophetic courage.

In the ambrosial freshness of the morning, a long gallop upon his pet charger, "Garibaldi,"
restored the equilibrium of the young officer's nerves. He had neatly taken the strong-limbed
cross-country horse over a dozen of the old walls out by the Kootab Minar, and with the reins
lying loosely on Garibaldi's neck, he rode back to the live city by the side of its two dead
progenitors.

The bustle and hum of awaking Delhi interested him not, for a fond unrest led him down to the
great walled inclosure of the marble house.

"Shall I see her to-day? Will she be in the garden?" he murmured in his loving day-dream.

The springy feet of the charger dropped noiselessly on the lonely avenue and already the double
carriage gate was in sight. An instinct of martial coquetry caused Harry Hardwicke to gather
up his reins and straighten lightly into the military position of eyes right. He was watching
the gate of Paradise, a Paradise as yet forbidden to him.

Yes. There was the gleam of white robes shining out across the friendly gate.

Standing under a huge spreading camphor tree, a graceful form was there, clear cut against
the dark foliage, and seeming to float upon the tender green of the dewy grass. A nymph--a
goddess, shyly standing there, was shading her eyes with one slender hand and gazing down the
path toward the golden East which was bringing to the Lady of his dreams, a flood of golden
sunlight and her secret adorer, the man whose lonely young heart had throned her as its queen.
Hardwicke raised his head quickly as a wild shriek sounded out upon the still morning air.

The lover with one agonized glance saw the outspread arms of Justine Delande, and heard again
a voice which had thrilled his soul in loving memory. It appealed for aid. Nadine was shrieking
for help.

With one glance, the young soldier gathered his noble steed. There was but twenty yards for
the rally and the raise, but the game old "Garibaldi" dropped as lightly on the other side
of the closed carriage gate as any "blue ribbon" of the Galway "Blazers."

There was a moment, but one fleeting moment, given to the lover to see the danger menacing
the woman whom he loved. His heart was icy, but his hand was quick. There, a few feet only
from the horribly fascinated girl, a cobra di capdlo rising and swaying in angry undulations.
The huge snake was angrily hissing with a huge distended puffed hood swelling menacingly over
the dirty brown body. "Standfast!" yelled Hardwicke in agony.

There was a gleam of steel, the rush of a charger's feet, and as man and horse swept by the
fainting girl--the swing of a saber, and the heavy trampling of iron-clad hoofs! Only Justine
Delande saw the flashing saber cleaving the air again and again, as Hardwicke gracefully leaned
to his saddle bow, in the right and left cut on the ground. And Garibaldi's beating hoofs soon
completed the work of the circling sword.

And then as the Swiss woman broke her trance and turned to run toward the house, the young
horseman leaped lightly to the ground. "Go on, go on!" he cried. "The other snake is not far
off!" When Simpson and the frightened domestics rushed out to the veranda in a panic, they
only saw before them a graceful youth with his strong arms burdened with the senseless form
of the woman he loved--the woman whose life he had saved!

And, dangling from his right wrist, by the leather sword-knot, hung the saber which Colonel
Hardwicke had swung in the mad onslaught on the mutineers' camp at Lucknow.

"Here, Simpson! Send for Doctor McMorris!" cried Hardwicke, as a dozen willing hands sprang
to aid him. "Bring brandy, ammonia, and oil!" There was a bamboo settee on the veranda. It
received the precious burden which the soldier had held against his heart. "Carry her to her
rooms! Gently, now!" commanded the captain. Seizing Justine by the arm, he said: "I think that
I arrived in time. Go! Go! You will find me waiting for you here! Examine her at once! The
hot iron and artery ligatures alone will save her if she was bitten!" His brow was knotted
in agony.

"You came between them!" gasped Justine. "The thing never reached her side!"

"God be thanked! Go! Go!" cried Hardwicke. "I have my work to do here!" A black servant had
already led the dancing Garibaldi out to the open safety of the graveled carriage drive. "Look
to my horse!" cried Hardwicke. "See that he is not bitten!" and then he slowly walked over
to where a dozen menials, with heavy clubs, had beaten the writhing cobra into a shapeless mass.

"Come away, all of you!" cried the captain, in Hindustanee. "Run, some of you, and get the
snake catcher!" Doctor McMorris, arriving on the gallop, had reported the absolute safety of
the frightened girl, when Harry Hardwicke, leaning on his sheathed sword, watched a slim, glittering-eyed
Hindu, followed by a boy bearing an earthen pot, who had noiselessly reconnoitered the vicinity
of the great tree. The boy most keenly watched all the movements of his white-robed master,
who, drawing a little fife from his red cummerbund sash, began to play a shrill, weird tune.
A frightened household coterie watched from a safe distance the thirty-foot circle of herbage
around the shade of the giant tree trunk. A shudder crept over the watchers as a huge brown
head, with two white circles on the back of the neck, rose slowly out of the grass, and two
red-hot gleaming eyes blazed out, as an immense cobra swelled out its fearfully disgusting
hood, and, rising halfway, bloated out its loathsome head, swaying to and fro, to the strange
music. "There's the mate!" quietly whispered Hardwicke to Simpson. The snake now showed its
greasy belly, like dirty stained marble, and the lithe boy, circling behind it, warily essayed
to drop the red earthen pot over its head. But one of the excited servants, stealing up, had
released a little mongoose, which now bravely darted upon its deadly enemy.

Seven times did the active little animal dart upon the huge reptile, in a confusedly vicious
series of attacks and close in a deadly conflict, and, when, at last, the snake charmer walked
disgustedly away, the little ferret's sharp teeth were transfixed in the throat of its dead enemy.

A handful of silver to the snake catcher and his boy sent them away delighted, while the wounded
mongoose, having greedily sucked the blood of the dead cobra, wandered away in triumph, creeping
on its belly into the rank grass in search of the life-saving herb which it alone can find,
to cure the venom-inflamed wounds of the deadly "naja." The silent duel was over, and the bodies
of the dreadful vipers were hastily buried.

"I shall call this afternoon, at five, to ask Miss Johnstone if she has entirely recovered,"
gravely said Captain Hardwicke to Mademoiselle Justine Delande, when the still excited Swiss
woman poured forth her congratulations to the young hero of this morning's episode. Hardwicke
was standing with his gloved hand grasping the mettlesome "Garibaldi's" bridle. Justine Delande
threw her arms around the neck of the noble horse and kissed his sleek brown cheek. Then she
whispered a few words to Captain Hardwicke, which made that young warrior's heart leap up in
a wild joy.

He laughed lightly as he said: "Keep this quiet. Pray do not allow Miss Johnstone to walk any
more in the dewy grass. These deadly reptiles affect moisture, and, strange to say, they love
the vicinity of human habitations. As for 'Garibaldi,' good old fellow, I'll bring him this
afternoon, but I'll not take him again over the gate. It was a pretty stiff jump for the old
boy." When Simpson escorted the happy Captain to the opened carriage gate, he threw up his
wrinkled hand in salute.

"You're your father's own son, Captain, and God bless you and good luck to you and the young
mistress."

There was no answer as Harry spurred the charger down the road, but Simpson pocketed a sovereign,
with the sage prophecy that things were at last, going the right way.

The watchful Hugh Johnstone was already in waiting, on this very morning, at the East Indian
station in Calcutta, with a sumptuous carriage; for a telegram had warned him that the woman
whom he dreaded, and had secretly doomed, was fast approaching. His heart was resolutely set
upon the master stroke of his life, for a private audience with the Viceroy of India had been
graciously granted him at two o'clock. "I am saved--if nothing goes wrong," he murmured, as
the Delhi train trundled into the station.

A steely glare lit up his eyes as he advanced with raised sun helmet to meet the Lady of the
Silver Bungalow.

In the train were one or two of the curious Delhi quid nuncs, who smiled and exchanged glances
as the embryo Sir Hugh led the lady to the carriage.

On the box Jules Victor sat bolt upright clasping a traveling bag, while Marie gazed at the
swarming streets of Calcutta from her mistress's side. "She is on the defensive. I'll show
her a trick," old Hugh murmured, as he noted the servants' presence.

A few murmured words exchanged between the secret foes caused Hugh Johnstone to sternly cry,
"To Grindlay and Company's Bank."

The dark goddess Kali, patron demon of Kali Ghatta, was hovering above them in the pestilential
air as the carriage swiftly rolled along the superb streets of the metropolis born of Governor
Charnock's settlement in sixteen eighty-six. The gift of an Emperor of Delhi to the ambitious
English, Fort William had grown to be an octopus of modern splendor. Down the circular road,
past the splendid Government House, they silently sped through the "City of Palaces." Berthe
Louison never noted the varied delights of the Maiden Esplanade, nor, even with a glance honored
Wellesley and Ochterlony, raised up there in marble effigy. Her face was as fixed as bronze,
while Hugh Johnstone, right and left, saluted his countless friends.

Men of the Bengal Asiatic, the Bethune, the Dai-housie, plumed generals, native princelings,
gay aides-de-camp, grave judges, and university Dons eagerly bowed to the richest civilian
in Bengal--the homage of triumphant wealth.

Stared at from club windows, Johnstone, with proudly erect head, nodded to fashion's fools,
crowding there all eager to catch a glimpse of the lovely Lady Johnstone in posse.

For these last days of waiting had been only a mental torture to the nabob assailed by rallying
gossipers. He was now counting grimly the moments till a telegram from Delhi should seal his
safety for life. And then, his dark and silent revenge!

At Grindlay's Bank, Madame Louison quietly descended, leaning on the arm of Hugh Johnstone.
There was hurrying to and fro on their appearance, and in ten minutes a second carriage received
the disguised Alixe Delavigne, while the Manager of Grindlay's escorted her, under the eyes
of her two guardians. The Golden Calf was the reigning god, even in these later days.

With a dignified pace, the carriage of Hugh Johnstone led the way to the Bank of Bengal, where
a private room soon hid the three principal parties from the gaze of the multi-colored throng
of clerks and accountants. A conference of the gravest nature ensued, as both the Bank Managers
jealously watched each other.

Hugh Johnstone was as pale as a man wrestling with the dark angel when Madame Louison produced
a faded document and a receipt of extended legal verbiage. The Manager of Grindlay's gazed,
in mute surprise, when the highest dignitary of the Bengal Bank at last entered the room, followed
by two porters bearing two brass-bound mahogany boxes of antique manufacture. Hugh Fraser Johnstone's
stony face was carelessly impassive.

"Pray examine these seals!" the newcomer said, "and, remember, Mr. Johnstone, that we exact
your absolute release for the long-continued responsibility. Here is a memorandum of the storage
and charges. You must sign, also, as Hugh Fraser--now Hugh Fraser Johnstone."

Old Hugh Johnstone's voice never trembled, as he said, after a minute inspection:

"I will give you a cheque." Then, dashing off his signature upon the receipt tendered by Madame
Louison, he calmly said: "These things are only of a trifling value--some long-treasured trinkets
of my dead wife's. May I be left alone for a moment?"

The three silent witnesses retired into an adjoining room. In five minutes, Hugh Johnstone
called the Bank Governor to his side. "There is your receipt, duly signed, and your cheque
to balance, Mr. Governor. We are now both relieved of a tiresome controversy. Will you please
bring in the others?"

With a pleasant smile, the flush of a great happiness upon his face, Hugh Fraser Johnstone
remarked: "I desire to state publicly that Madame Louison and my self have, in this little
transaction, closed all our affairs. I have given to her a quit-claim release of all and every
demand whatsoever." With kindly eyes, Berthe Louison listened to a few murmured words from
Hugh Johnstone. Bowing her stately head, she swept from the room upon the arm of the polite
manager of Grindlay's.

"Home," said the genial banker, as he deferentially questioned the Lady of the Silver Bungalow.
"Do you honor us with a long visit?" he eagerly asked.

"I return to-morrow evening, on the same train with the soon-to-be Sir Hugh. I only came here
to attend to some business at the French Consulate and to adjust this trifling matter." Hugh
Johnstone writhed in rage, as he saw the cool way in which Berthe Louison fortified her safety
lines.

Before they were in the shelter of the banker's superb mansion, Hugh Johnstone was double locked
within the walls of Douglas Fraser's apartment.

"I have two hours to work in" he gasped, after a nervous examination of the contents of the
cases which had been placed at his feet in his carriage. "And, then, for the Viceroy! But first
to the steamer and the Insurance Office!'"

Not a human being in Calcutta ever knew the contents of the small steel strongbox which occupied
the place of honor in the treasure room of the Empress of India on her speeding down the Hooghly.
But a Director of the Anglo-Indian Assurance Company opened his eyes widely when Hugh Johnstone,
his fellow director, cheerfully paid the marine insurance fees on a policy of fifty thousand
pounds sterling. "I am sending some of my securities home, Mainwaring," the great financier
said. "I intend to remove my property, bit by bit, to London. I do not dare to trust them on
one ship." The director sighed in a hopeless envy of his millionaire friend.

Hugh Johnstone's Calcutta agent was also solemnly stirred up when his principal gave him some
private directions as to the custody of his private papers and a substantial Gladstone bag,
consigned to the recesses of the steel vaults. "I go back with these papers to Delhi to-morrow
night. Give me the keys of my private compartment till then. In a few months I may be called
to London. Douglas Fraser will have my power of attorney."

With a sunny gleam in his face, Hugh Johnstone then alertly sprang into his carriage, when
he had finished his careful toilet, to meet the Viceroy of India. The two brass-bound mahogany
cases were left standing carelessly open upon his table in Douglas Fraser's rooms, neatly packed
with an assortment of toilet articles and all the multitudinous personal medical stores of
a refined Anglo-Indian "in the sere and yellow."

"Five pounds worth!" laughed Hugh Johnstone, as he closed the door. "Now, in one hour, my Lady
Disdain, I can say 'Checkmate.' Ram Lal shall attend to you later--behind all your bolts and
bars. He will find a way to reach you."

It was a matter of profound speculation to the gilded youth of the Government House what strangely
sudden friendship had blossomed to bring the august representative of the great Victoria, Kaisar-I-Hind,
and Queen of England, as far as the middle of the audience room, in close colloquy with, and
manifesting an almost affectionate leave-taking of, the silver-haired millionaire of Delhi.

But that night the most confidential General "at disposal" received from the Viceroy some secret
orders which caused the experienced soldier's eyes to open widely.

"Remember! The personal interests of the Crown are involved here!" said the Viceroy. "Any mistake
might cost me my Sovereign's confidence and you your commission, perhaps a Star of India!"
he laughed, with an affected lightness.

In far-away Delhi, as the sun faded away into the soft summer twilight, Harry Hardwicke was
sitting at the side of Nadine Johnstone, while her stern father secretly exulted in distant
Calcutta. He had already mailed by registered post a set of duplicated receipts and insurance
policies for his last shipment addressed to "Professor Andrew Fraser" and his mind was centered
upon some peculiarly pleasurable coming events to take place in the Marble House. But the dreamy-eyed
girl watching the man who had so gallantly saved her life, thought only of a love which had
stolen into her heart to wake all its slumbering chords to life, and to loosen the sweet music
of her singing soul! They were alone, save for the bent figure of Justine Delande at a distant
window, and the spirit of Love breathed upon them silently drew them heart to heart.

Here now, before the divinity so fondly worshiped, Harry Hardwicke lost his soldier's ready
voice. "Say no more! You need rest, Miss Nadine! I shall only call to-morrow to assure myself
of your perfect recovery. When your father returns I shall do myself the honor to ask his formal
permission to visit you later." There was a sigh and a sob as Nadine Johnstone took her silent
lover's hands and pressed them in her own, bursting into happy tears.

"I owe you my life--my father shall speak, but in my own heart I shall treasure your splendid
bravery forever!" Her tall young knight stooped over the little hands, kissed them, and was
turning to go, when the maiden slipped off a sparkling ring. "Wear this always for my sake;
I can say no more till we meet again!" And, bending low, Captain Hardwicke stepped backward,
as from a queen's presence, leaving her there, weak, loving, and trembling in a strange delight.

As he rode slowly homeward in the evening's glow, he passed Major Alan Hawke dashing away to
the railway station in a carriage. Traveling luggage told the story of a sudden jaunt. A wave
of the hand and the secret-service man was gone. Hawke growled: "Damned young jackanapes, I'll
fool you, too; but what does old Johnstone want?" He was reading a telegram just received:
"Come to meet me at Allahabad. Have brought the drafts. Want you for a few days down here."

At ten o'clock next morning, Simpson, his voice all broken, his old eyes filled with tears,
dashed into Captain Hardwicke's office. "Dead?" cried the young soldier, springing up in a
sudden horror. "No. Gone over night--both the women--God knows where, but they left secretly,
by the Master's orders!" And then Hardwicke sank back into his chair with a groan. But, at
Allahabad, Major Alan Hawke was raving alone in a helpless rage. There was no Johnstone there,
and Ram Lal Singh had telegraphed him: "The daughter and governess went away in the night by
the railroad--special train. A man from Calcutta took them away."

"You shall pay for this, you old hound!" he yelled, "Yes, with your heart's blood.'"

CHAPTER IX. ALAN HAWKE PLAYS HIS TRUMP CARD.

When the Calcutta train rolled into Allahabad, two days after Harry Hardwicke's crushing surprise,
Major Alan Hawke, the very pink of Anglo-Indian elegance, awaited the dismounting of the returning
voyagers. He had passed a whole sleepless night in revolving the various methods to play oft
each of his wary employers against each other, and had decided to let Fate make the game.

"The devil of it is, I'm not supposed to know anything of the flitting!" he mused, after digesting
Ram Lal Singh's carefully worded telegrams. All the light in his shadowy mental eclipse was
the positive information that a special train had been made up for Bombay at the station, "on
government secret service."

"The old man is preparing to fight, now," he decided. "His 'wooden horse' is within Berthe
Loiuson's camp. If she is not wary, she may never leave India, Johnstone can be very ugly.
But what must I do? Shall I warn Berthe, now? If I do, she will both doubt me and make a scene.
Old Johnstone will then know at once that I have betrayed him." An hour's cogitation led Alan
Hawke to decide to let the "high contracting parties" fight it out themselves at Delhi.

"I'll secretly join the winner and then bleed them both. I must be unconscious of all. Johnstone's
money I want first, then, Berthe must pay me well for my aid." With an exquisite nosegay of
flowers, he awaited the slow descent of the social magnates. A second telegram from Johnstone
had warned him that the wanderers were on the same train. "He is a cool devil!" mused Hawke.

Radiant in beauty, pleasantly smiling, and watched by her French bodyguard, Madame Louison
swept into the grand cafe room upon the arm of Hugh Johnstone, who deftly exchanged a silent
glance of warning with the artful Major. The first intimation of Johnstone's craft was the
fact that Alan Hawke found he could not manage to see Madame Louison alone, even for a single
moment. There was a veiled surprise in her beautiful brown eyes, when the nabob led Hawke a
few tables away for a conference in full view of the beauty, who was surrounded with a cloud
of obsequious attendants. "As we have but one hour, Madame, pray at once, order a repast for
us all. I must have a few words with Hawke." Johnstone was as smiling as a summer sea.

"We were delayed a day by my own private business," genially cried the nabob. "What's new in
Delhi?"

It was the crowning lie of Hawke's splendidly mendacious career when he carelessly said, "Nothing.
I supposed, of course, that you had grave need of me here."

"So I have," earnestly replied Johnstone, as the station master bustled up, scraping and bowing,
with a bundle of letters and several telegrams. "Just look over these five drafts on Glyn,
Carr & Glyn's, while I look at the letters," whispered Johnstone, handing Hawke an official
looking envelope. Even while the adventurer carefully scanned the bills of exchange, he saw
a gleam of devilish triumph in the old man's eyes as he opened the telegrams, and with affected
carelessness shoved his letters in his pocket. "See here, Hawke! You can even earn a neat 'further
donation' if you will play your part rightly. General Abercromby, as personally representing
the Viceroy, arrives here to-morrow night to adjust my accounts finally. He will be a week
or so at Delhi. I want you to represent me and receive him here. I've telegraphed back to Abercromby
that you will bring him up in a special car. He does not want old Willoughby to think he is
nosing around Delhi. Now, do the handsome thing. Abercromby knows you. Here is a pocket-book.
Lose a few fifty-pound notes to the old boy on the train. Amuse him, mind you, and set him
up well! The car will be well stocked. I leave my two men here to wait on you and him. That's
all. I want to go off 'in a blaze of glory,' as the Yankees would say. I will meet you at Delhi.
Abercromby comes to my house. Can I depend on you? And, not a single word about the Baronetcy.
The Viceroy has graciously sent a special dispatch to England."

"All right. Let us join the Madame," said Hawke, with an uneasy feeling of a coming tropical
storm, "I'm glad to be out of it," mused Hawke. "If Abercromby stays a week, both parties will
defer hostilities until he goes. If that soft-hearted Swiss fool only telegraphs! By God, I
would have liked to have had one final tete-a-tete. She can make my fortune yet."

The flying minutes glided easily away, with Hugh Johnstone's old-time gallantry artfully separating
the two secret conspirators against his peace. Alan Hawke lunched gayly, with but one lurking
regret--a futile sorrow that he had not bent Justine Delande to his will. There was no dark
pledge between them, no secret bond of a man's perfidious victory, no soft surrender, the seal
of a woman's dishonor.

"Will she telegraph?" the adventurer asked himself with a beating heart and a burning brain.
"If so, then I hold them both in my hands, and the game is mine." When the train drew out,
the Major watched the disappearing forms of the mortal enemies in a secret wonder. "Have they
made it up? Will they marry after all?" he growled, and yet he laughed the idea to scorn. "And
yet fear, as well as love, has tied the nuptial knot before," he mused.

A new proof of Johnstone's craft was afforded him after he had, in a leisurely way, verified
the regularity of his windfall in good London exchange, signed by the millionaire upon his
home bankers, and duly stamped. A mental flash of lightning showed him how he was "sewed up,"
for Johnstone's all too polite servants shadowed him, alternately, in his every movement. He
even dared not visit the secret telegraph address. "Old scoundrel!" raged Alan Hawke. "I will
only get the first news after the fair and probably in a storm from Berthe. The denouement
may occur with me languishing here in Capua. Suppose that this she-devil would bolt? Where
would I land then?" He was most sadly rattled.

In the Delhi train, Hugh Johnstone busied with his late London papers, slyly smiled as he studied
a route map and railway time table. He had received a single telegraphed word, dated Madras,
and wisely left unsigned, but that one word was the keynote of his coveted victory--"Arrived."

"Ah! my lady," he mused, casting his eyes in the direction of Madame Louison's cozy private
compartment. "To-morrow at Delhi, if Douglas Fraser is true to his trust, there will be the
message which tells of a 'bark upon the sea,' which bears away forever all the brightness of
your life--away from you, yes, forever! And Hawke, this smart cad, is powerless now, and both
of them are outwitted. The Baronetcy is safe the very moment that Abercromby's work is done.
I've paid Hawke now, and he has been very naturally brought down here, out of the way. Madame!
Madame! Now to settle accounts with you the very moment that Abercromby has reported back from
Calcutta. I think I will just have a good old-fashioned talk with Ram Lal Singh. I need his
evidence to hoodwink this old cask of grog, Abercromby. I must blow off' his vanity in great
style."

While Berthe Louison slept, while old Hugh Johnstone plotted, while Ram Lal Singh fumed at
Delhi, and Harry Hardwicke "mourned the hopes that left him," Major Alan Hawke retired to the
Nirvana of a long afternoon siesta. There was a little departing detachment on this golden
afternoon at Madras--two frightened women, now gladly seeking the shelter of their cabins,
as the fleet steamer Coomassie Castle turned her prow toward Palk Strait. The terrible ordeal
of "passing the surf" had appalled them, and the exhausted Nadine Johnstone at last fell asleep
with her arms clasped around her sad-hearted governess. A hundred times had they read over
together the old nabob's telegram: "Going home from Calcutta to settle the Baronetcy appointment.
Will meet you in Europe." Nadine's letter from her stern father bade her implicitly trust to
her new-found kinsman, Douglas Fraser. The old nabob's judiciously private letter had filled
Justine Delande's sad heart with one twilight glow of happiness. A comforting cheque for one
thousand pounds was contained therein.

The words: "Your salary and expenses will be paid by me in Europe. This is only a little present.
Another may await you and your sister, if you fulfill your trust, that no man, not even Douglas
Fraser, meets my daughter alone until you give her back to me. He is but my traveling agent.
Nadine is in your hands alone. I have so written to her." With a breaking heart Justine Delande
kissed her beloved gage d'amour, the diamond bracelet, murmuring: "Alan! Alan! To part without
even a word!" She lay with tear-stained eyes, watching the low shores of Madras fade away,
and listened to the sleeping girl's murmur: "Harry! Harry! I owe you my life!" Even the maid
mourned a dashing Sergeant-Major! With a desperate courage, trying to fan the spark of love,
which had slowly crept into her lonely heart, Justine Delande had timidly bribed a stewardess,
going on shore for some last commissions, to telegraph to the secret address at Allahabad the
words: "Madras steamer Coomassie Castle, Brindisi."

The signature, "Your Justine," brought a grim smile to Alan Hawke's face, the next night, when
on the arrival of General Abercromby, he stationed Hugh Johnstone's secret spies on duty with
the redoubtable Calcutta warrior. "By God! She is both game and true!" cried Hawke. "Here is
my fortune, and Justine shall share my spoils yet!" As the special train rolled out into the
starlit night the old nabob, in a paroxysm of delight, read in the marble house words telegraphed
by the happy-hearted Douglas Fraser, now taking up his endless deck tramp on the Brindisi bound
steamer. The young Scotsman, ignorant of all intrigue, was relieved to know that he had laid
the firm foundation of his future fortunes. His last shore duty was done when he had wired
to his urgent relative in Delhi the glad tidings: "All right. Coomassie Castle. Orders strictly
obeyed."

Even the astute Alan Hawke failed, after many days of futile private research, to trace the
route of the train which had pulled out of Delhi in the dead of night, beat the record to Allahabad,
and then, turning off apparently for Bombay, had curved, on a loop, to the Madras line, and
surpassed all speed records on the Indian Peninsula. Even when he telegraphed to Ram Lal's
friends at Madras, he could obtain no definite trace, the railway officials were silent, and
the travelers had sought no hotel in Madras. Hugh Johnstone's well applied money had smothered
all inquiry. Even the driver and stokers of the special train never knew who so generously
presented them with a ten pound note apiece. "Some secret service racket," they laughed over
their ale. Not a tremor of a single muscle betrayed Major Alan Hawke when he delivered over
his official charge, Major General Abercromby, to Hugh Johnstone in the golden glow of Delhi's
morning. "I've kept your interests in view," he whispered. "The old boy's just two hundred
pounds richer. And, you may be sure, he wanted for nothing. I know all his damned old tiger
and mutiny stories by heart. I'm going up to the Club for a good long sleep. My compliments
to the ladies," lightly said Alan Hawke, as he gracefully declined Hugh Johnstone's invitation
to breakfast. Then Johnstone bore off his purple prize, set in red and gold.

The wide ripple of excitement caused by General Abercromby's reported arrival had crowded the
railway station. Hugh Johnstone chuckled, "Evidently Hawke knows nothing," as the two old friends
drove away in splendid state. But Major Hawke, an hour later, at his Club, was suddenly interrupted
in a cozy breakfast by the most unceremonious entrance of Major Harry Hardwicke, whose promotion
was at last gazetted. "Hello! I see you're a Major now. Lucky devil! What can I do for you,
Hardwicke?" cried Alan Hawke, eyeing the haggard and worn-looking young officer with a strange
dawning suspicion of the truth. "Did he know, too, of the Hegira?"

Major Hardwicke threw himself down in a chair, curtly saying: "You can tell me who effectuated
this lightning disappearance act of Madame Delande and young Miss Johnstone."

"You speak in riddles to me, Hardwicke," coolly said the wary Major. "I've just come in from
Allahabad with General Abercromby, who is here to settle old Johnstone's accounts. I know nothing
of what you refer to. I expected to meet both the ladies at dinner to-day."

"Then I will not uselessly take up your time, Major Hawke," gloomily rejoined Hardwicke, as
he picked up his sword, and, with a cold formal bow, quitted the room.

"I must watch this young fool," growled Alan Hawke. "Thank my lucky stars, the woman is far
away! But, he's well connected, has a brilliant record, and is a V. C. now for Berthe Louison
and the fireworks! But, first, old Ram Lal! They bowled the old boy out! I suppose that he
has already told Alixe Delavigne that she has been outwitted. I hold the trump cards now! No
single word without its golden price! I must not make one false step! As to the club men, I
only join in the general wonder." He made a careful and very studied toilet and sauntered out
of the club en flaneur, and then stealthily betook himself to the pagoda in Ram Lal's garden,
where his innocent dupe had so often waited for him with a softly beating heart.

"I'm glad the girl is gone," mused Alan Hawke. "If she were here, the chorus hymning Hardwicke's
perfections might set her young heart on fire." He was, as yet, ignorant of the tender bond
of gratitude fast ripening into Love. For, Love, that strange plant, rooted in the human heart,
thrives in absence, and, watered by the tears of sorrow and adversity, fills the longing and
faithful heart, in days of absence, with its flowers of rarest fragrance and blossoms of unfading
beauty. Nadine Johnstone, speeding on over sapphire seas, had already conquered the tender
secret of the simple Justine Delande's heart; and in her own loving day-dreams:

"Aye she loot the tears down fa' for Jock o' Hazeldean!"

"I must see him again! I must see him!" she fondly pledged her waiting heart. With the serpent
cunning of a loving maiden, she brooded like a dove with tender eyes, and so in her heart of
hearts, determined to draw forth from her stalwart cousin, Douglas Fraser, the secret of their
future destination. And the honest fellow became even as wax in her hands; while the gloomy
Hardwicke, in far-away Delhi, eyed the parchment-faced Hugh Johnstone in mute wonder, at the
long official reception in the Marble House. "Will he not vouchsafe to me even one word of
thanks?" thought the young man, in an increasing wonder.

But, Ram Lal Singh, when Major Alan Hawke drew him into the sanctum behind the shop, showed
a dark face, seamed with lines of care. "There will be some terrible happening!" muttered the
smooth old Mohammedan.

He had good gift of the world's gear, and now preferred the role of fox to lion. "She knows
nothing as yet. I waited till I could see you. I dared not to tell her. She only fancies that
this official visit of the General-Sahib from Calcutta will, of course, take up all their time
at the marble house. But she begs me to watch them all, and she has given me some little presents--money
presents." Hawke winced, but in silence. His employer trusted him not. Here was proof positive.

"How in the devil's name did they get away without you knowing of it?" demanded Hawke. "If
you are lying to me, Ram Lal, we may lose both our pickings from this fat pagoda tree. You
see old Johnstone may slip away after the girl. He may leave here with Abercromby."

The jewel merchant's eyes gleamed with a smoldering fire. "Johnstone Sahib will not leave Delhi.
It is in the stars! He has too much here to leave. There are many old ties which bind. No,
he will not go like a thief in the night." Hawke was surprised at the old rascal's evident emotion.

"Then tell me what you think about the disappearance of these women," said Hawke, watching
him keenly.

"I have seen all my friends in the station, even the mail clerks, telegraph men, and all,"
began Ram Lal. "A train 'on government service'--a special--came in that night from Allahabad
at ten o'clock. Then two small trains were kept in waiting for some hours; one left for Simla
before daylight, and the other drew out for Allahabad. There was a crowd of ladies, officers'
ladies, and some children and servants in the waiting-room. They like to travel at night in
the cool shade. No one knew them. Now, at Allahabad, the east-bound train could branch off
either for Calcutta, Madras, or Bombay."

"So you know not which way these women fled?" The old merchant seemed absolutely at sea. As
Hawke shook his head the story was soon finished.

"My men at the marble house tell me that a strange young man arrived at ten o'clock. He was
admitted by Simpson, the private man of Johnstone Sahib. The Swiss woman talked with him alone
a half hour in the library, and then Johnstone's daughter came down there, but only for a few
moments. My men watched him writing and reading papers in the library; then they all went away."

"That is all. I slipped into the house when Simpson went away next day. He often goes out to
drink secretly, and he has a pretty Eurasian friend or two, besides, down in the quarter."
Ram Lal winked significantly. "I went all over the upper part of the house myself. The women's
rooms were left just as if they had gone out for a drive along the Jumna. If they took anything
it was only a few hand parcels. Now you know all that I know. No one ever saw the strange man
before. And these people are gone for good, that is all. Go now to the Mem-Sahib at the Silver
Bungalow. I fear her. But tell me what I must say to her." The old man was evidently in a mortal
fear. "There is that French devil--that old soldier. He is a fighting devil, that one, and
the woman a tiger. The lady herself is a tiger of tigers!"

"Say nothing, Ram Lal," soothingly said Hawke. "Leave it all to me. I see it. Old Johnstone
has sent the girl to the hills to keep her away from the young fellows who will crowd the house,
while this General Abercromby is here. There'll be drink and cards, and God knows what else."

"I know," grinned Ram Lal. "I knew old Johnstone in the old days, a man-eater, a woman-killer,
a cold-hearted devil, too! What does he do with this General?" The jewel merchant's eyes blazed.

"Oh! Buying his new title with some official humbug or another. I don't know. Perhaps he is
really settling his accounts," laughed Hawke.

"I have a little account of my own to settle with him! I will see him at once! He, too, may
slip away and follow his girl to the hills," quietly said Ram Lal. "I know his past. He is
never to be trusted--not for a moment--as long as he is alive!" Alan Hawke stared in wonder
at Ram Lal, who humbly salaamed, when he closed:

"See the woman over there--come back, and tell me what I must do or say. You and I are comrades,"
the jewel seller leeringly said, "and we must lie together! All the world are liars-and half
of the world lives by lying." with which sage remark the old curio seller betook himself to
his narghileh.

In a half an hour, Major Alan Hawke was wandering through the garden of the Silver Bungalow
with Alixe Delavigne at his side. Behind them, at a discreet distance, sauntered Jules Victor,
his dark eyes most intently fixed upon the promenaders. Madame Delavigne was pleased to be
cheerfully buoyant. She had silently listened to Hawke's recital of the probable causes of
General Abercromby's visit. "I could see that Johnstone evidently wished to occupy us both
at Allahabad. Your conduct was discretion itself! Have you seen him yet? Or the ladies?" She
eyed her listener keenly.

"No, Madame," frankly said Hawke. "There is all manner of official junketing on here now. I
am not, of course, to be officially included, as I am not on the staff of either the visiting
or commanding general. I must wait until I am invited--if I am!" he hesitatingly said. "You
know that my rank is--to say the least--shadowy!" The lady passed over this semi-confession
in silence.

"It is not like Johnstone to let Nadine meet all the gay coterie which will fill the great
halls," mused Madame Delavigne. "I suppose that the dear child will have a week of 'marble
prison' in her rooms, with only the governess. I think I shall let General Abercrornby leave
before I call. What do you advise? Johnstone has always ignored the ladies of Delhi!"

"I really am powerless to counsel you," said Major Hawke gravely, "as I am outside of the circle.
I would watch this man keenly. He bears you no good will. And now--what shall I do? Did your
business at Calcutta bring me the summons to action?" There was no undue eagerness in his voice.
He was gliding into a safe position for the future eclaircissement.

"Not yet. But it will come! It will come--as soon as this General goes. For I now will demand
the right to drop Berthe Louison, and to be my own self. To be Alixe Delavigne to one bright,
loving human soul only, in this land of arid solitudes, of peopled wastes. The land of the
worn, scarred human nature, which, blind, creedless, and hopeless, staggers along under the
burden of misery under the menace of the British bayonet."

"When do you leave it?" quietly asked the cautious Major.

"When my work is done!" the resolute woman replied. "I am here for peace or war! We have only
crossed swords! I do not trust this man a moment! He is capable of any foul deed! Now, you
must keenly watch the clubs, the social life. Find out all you can! Come to me here every night
at ten. If I suddenly need you, then I will send Ram Lal!"

"By day or night I am ready!" gravely said Major Hawke. "I do not like to intrude upon you,"
he hesitatingly said.

"You will win your spurs yet in my service!" said Alixe. "The real struggle is to come yet.
I am only knocking at the door of Nadine's heart. And the old nabob is but half conquered."

Major Hawke, with a bow, retired and wended his way to the Club, where he spent an hour in
preparing a careful letter to Euphrosyne Delande. It was a careful document, intended to prudently
open communication with Justine through the Halls of Learning on the Rue du Rhone, Geneva,
but a little sealed inclosure to Justine was the grain of gold in all the complimentary chaff.
"Her own heart, poor girl, will tell her what to do," said Hawke, as he departed and registered
the letter himself.

The passing cortege of General Abercromby, returning the visit of the local chief, excited
Hawke's attention. He caught a glimpse of the silver-haired millionaire whom two widely different
natures had denounced that day as "being capable of anything."

"And so old Ram Lal has it 'in for him,' too! What can he mean?"

With a sudden impulse Major Hawke drove back and made a formal call upon the ladies at the
Marble House. He was astounded when old Simpson, with a grudging welcome, openly announced
that the ladies were permanently not at home. "Gone to the hills for a month or two," curtly
replied the veteran servant, and then, on a silver tray, the butler decorously handed to Major
Alan Hawke a sealed letter. "I was to seek you out at the Club, sir, as this letter is important.
I take the liberty to give it to you now. It was the master's orders: 'That I give it into
your own hands!'"

Major Alan Hawke's face darkened as he read the curt lines penned by Hugh Johnstone himself.
With a smothered curse he thrust the letter in his pocket. "Both of them are trying to keep
me in the dark, I'll let Madame Berthe Louison run her own head into the trap. Then, when she
pays, I will talk, but not till then." The careful lines stated that for a week the writer
would be greatly engrossed with private matters, and at home to no one. "I will send for you
as soon as I am able to see you, upon some new business matters."

The last clause was significant enough. "He prepared this to give me a social knockout!" coolly
said the renegade. "All right! But wait! By Gad! I fancy I'll take a cool revenge in joining
Ram Lal and Berthe Louison. Suppose that the old duffer were put out of the way? Could I then
count on Justine, and my wary employer? There is a storm brewing, and breakers ahead. I must
soon get my 'retaining fee' from the lady of the Silver Bungalow or I may lose it forever!
And I will let her uncover the empty bird's nest herself! She must not suspect me!" And yet
the curt letter of the old civilian wounded him to the quick. "What does this jugglery mean?
He ought to fear me, by this time, just a little! He intends to crush Berthe Louison by some
foul blow, and then will he dare to begin on me? I will double forces with Ram Lal. That's
my only alliance!" The Major's soul was up in arms.

When the splendid reception at General Willoughby's was over, Hugh Johnstone cautiously approached
Major Hardwicke. "I am just told that General Abercromby will remain and dine 'en famille'
with his old brother in arms. Will you drive with me to my house? I have something of a private
nature to say to you. I can give you a seat in my carriage." Major Hardwicke bowed and, obtaining
his conge, sat in expectant waiting until the two men were comfortably seated in Johnstone's
snuggery in the deserted mansion. They talked indifferently over Abercromby's arrival till
Simpson announced dinner.

"I would like you to dine with me, Major Hardwicke," said the old Commissioner, "for I have
something now to say to you." He rang a silver bell, and, whispering to Simpson, faced his
young visitor, who had bowed in acceptance. The butler returned in a few moments with a superb
Indian saber, sheathed in gold, and shimmering with splendid jewels. He stood, mute, as Johnstone
gravely said: "I learned from Simpson, on my return from Calcutta, of your prompt gallantry
in aiding my daughter in her hour of peril." He continued, "Simpson alone, was left to tell
me, as I have sent the child away to the hills for a couple of months. For reasons of my own,
I do not care to have a motherless girl exposed to the indiscriminate hubbub of merely official
society. The young lady will probably not remain in India. I therefore sent them all away before
this official visit, which would have forced a child, almost yet a school girl, out into the
glare of this local junketing," he said with feeling.

"Take this saber, Major. It was given up by Mir-zah Shah, a Warrior Prince, in old days, so
the legend goes. It is the sword of a king's son. It will recall your own saber play so neatly
conceived, and, as a personal reminder, wear this for me! It is a rare diamond, which I have
treasured for many years. And its old Hindustanee name was 'Bringer of Prosperity.'" Hardwicke
bowed, and murmured his thanks.

The nabob slipped a superb ring from his finger, and then, as if he had relieved his mind forever
of a painful duty, dismissed the subject, almost feverishly entertaining his solitary guest
at the splendid feast which had been prepared for General Abercromby. It was late when the
strangely assorted convives separated. "I will now send Simpson home with you, in my carriage,"
solicitously remarked Johnstone, as the hour grew late. "There is a prince's ransom on that
sword--and, you did not bring your noble charger! You must treat him well for my sake--for
my daughter's sake!"

"Will Miss Johnstone return soon?" said the heart-hungry lover, catching at this last straw.

"It is undetermined! I may send them home in a few months. But, if I have any little influence
left, 'at Headquarters,' that shall always be exerted for you. I am always glad to meet you,
your father's son, for Colonel Hardwicke was a true soldier of the olden days--brave, loyal,
and beyond reproach."

The lover's beating heart was smothered in this flowing honey. "Ah! I must trust to Simpson!"
he mused. "The old man is a sly one!"

Politely bowed out by the stern, lonely old man, Major Hardwicke departed, his conversational
guns spiked with the deft compliments, as the mighty clatter of the returning General filled
the courtyard of the Marble House.

In the soft, wooing stillness of the night, Simpson, at the young Major's side, found time
to whisper: "Never let the Guv'nor see us together! He's a sly one! There's a honey-baited
trap in this! The girl's been spirited off to Europe! I only know that--but, as yet, no more."

"What do you mean? Is he lying to me?" gasped Hardwicke, with a sinking heart.

"Rightly said!" huskily whispered Simpson. "Seek for her--London ways--I'll find it out soon
where she is, and I'm just scholar enough to write! Give me your own safe London address! I
heard ye would soon take yer long leave. Bless her sweet soul! I'll tell ye now! She whispered
to me: 'Tell him--tell Major Hardwicke--he'll hear from me himself, even if I was at the very
end of the earth! and give him this!'" The frightened servant thrust a little packet into the
officer's hand. "It was the only chance she had."

"That Swiss woman watched her every moment, and the man--the one the father sent from Calcutta.
There was a telegram to her. I gave it to her myself! Major, my oath--they're on the blue water,
now! I'll watch and come to you! Don't leave Delhi till I post you!"

"You're a brave fellow, Simpson. Keep this all quiet," softly said Major Hardwicke. "I'll follow
your advice, and I'll not leave here till I know more from you. I'll follow her to Japan, but
I'll see her again."

"That's the talk, Major!" cried the happy old soldier, who felt something crisp in his hand
now. "Distrust old Hugh! He'll lie to ye and trap ye! Watch him! He's capable of anything."
The carriage then stopped with a crash and Hardwicke sprang out lightly. "Make no sign! Trust
to me! I'll come to ye!" was Simpson's last word.

Before Simpson had discovered in the marble house the pleasing figures on a ten-pound note,
Harry Hardwicke, striding up and down his room, in all the ecstasy of a happy lover, had kissed
a hundred times a little silver card case--a mere school girl's poor treasure, but priceless
now--for within it was a hastily severed tress of gold-brown hair, tied with a bit of blue
ribbon. A scrap of paper in penciled words brought to him "Confirmation stronger than Holy
Writ." "I will write or telegraph when not watched. Do not forget. --Nadine."

The words of the old servitor returned to the soldier in a grim warning. "He is capable of
anything."

"So am I," cried Harry as his heart leaped up. "I will find her were she at the North Pole.
He cannot hide her from me. Love laughs at locksmiths!"

If the would-be Sir Hugh Johnstone had heard the three verdicts of the hostile critics of his
being "capable of anything," he might have laughed in defiance, but after several friendly
"night caps" with the slightly jovial General Abercromby, it might have seriously disturbed
the host to know what hidden suspicions the Viceroy's envoy had brought back from a very secret
conference with that acute old local commander, Willoughby.

"It sounds all very well, Abercromby, my old friend," said Willoughby, "but Johnstone, or old
Fraser, as we call him, is a hitman shark! Without a list or some general details, he will
surely rob the crown of one-half the jewels, you may be sure. His cock and bull story of their
recovery is too pellucid. It's Hobson's choice, though. That or nothing. He, of course, slyly
claims to have only lately made this bungling accidental recovery. If the return is a really
valuable one, then all you can officially do is to accept it. But be wary! I can give you some
friendly aid here, when you get all the returned treasure. I'll give you a captain's guard
here. Bring all here at once. We, you, and I, will seal it up, and I'll have old Ram Lal Singh
secretly come here and value them. He's the best judge of gems in India, and he was once an
official in the Royal Treasure Chamber of the old King of Oude. Less than fifty thousand pounds
worth as a return would be a transparent humbug, and besides you can delay your signature for
a day or so, till you and I, after listing the gems, see this old expert and have him examine
them in our presence. No one need know of it but you and I, and His excellency, the Viceroy.
As for Hugh Johnstone, he is simply capable of anything. I told the Viceroy's aid, Anstruther,
so. And I'll be damned glad to get Johnstone out of my bailiwick, that I will."

With which vigorous "flea in the ear," General Willoughby dismissed his startled comrade to
the society of his crafty old host. And, that night, strange dreams of unrest haunted the "modern
Major General" in the marble house, while singularly gloomy misgivings weighed down the brave-hearted
Berthe Louison, now heart-hungry for a sight of the doubly beloved child of the dead lady of
Jitomir. She woke in the hot and clammy night to cry "No, no! He would never dare to! She is
here! I shall go boldly and demand to see her to-morrow!" Her womanly intuition told her the
lines were broken.

And so, robed in fashion's shining armor, Alixe Delavigne counted the moments, until at four
o'clock of the next afternoon her carriage waited in the bower-decked oval of the marble house.
A gloomy frown settled upon her face, as the impassive Hugh Johnstone approached her carriage,
sun helmet in hand. She scented treachery now! There were a dozen brilliant young officers
longingly gazing at this sweet apparition in the gloomy gardens. Even General Abercromby strutted
out and displayed himself in the foreground, as Johnstone leaned over and gravely whispered
to the pale-faced beauty:

"My daughter has been sent away from the city for her health! Her absence is indefinite. I
will see you when General Abercromby leaves here in a week, and explain all. No, not before.
It is impossible."

With a sudden motion of her hand to Jules, Alixe Delavigne leaned back, half fainting, upon
her cushions. Her agitated heart was now beating in a wild tumult of rage and baffled hatred!
"Home!" she cried, and then, as the marble house was lost to view, she harshly cried: "To Ram
Lal's first! To the jewel store!"

There was a brooding death in her eyes when she sternly said to the merchant: "Send him to
me at once! Send Hawke! Go! Waste not a moment!"

And then she swore an oath of vengeance, which would have made Hugh Fraser Johnstone shudder,
as he sat drinking champagne cup with his guest. "One for you, my lady!" he had laughed, grimly,
as the woman whom he had tricked drove swiftly away. And the grim fates laughed too, spinning
at a shortening life web.

Major Alan Hawke was interrupted in his cosy nest at the Club by the hasty advent of Ram Lal.
The old jeweler had for once abandoned all his Oriental calm, and he trembled as he muttered.
"She demands you at once. I brought my own carriage. Go to her quickly. There will be a great
monsoon of quarrel now. But her face looks as if she was stricken to the death, and something
will come of all this. You must watch like the crouching cheetah!"

"What has happened?" anxiously cried Hawke.

"She has just found out the women are gone! She went up to the marble house this afternoon,
and saw the old Sahib Johnstone. He did not even bid her to leave her carriage. One of my men
ran over at once and told me. She drove to the shop on her way homeward and sent me here."
The black Son of Plutus scuttled away, as if in a mortal fear. "I do not dare to face her--in
her angry mood," was Ram's last word. He was only accustomed to baby-faced Hindu women of the
"langorous lily" type, who hung on his every word--the mute slaves of his jaded passions. "This
one is a tigress!" he sighed, as he fled from the Club.

"Ah! My lady is a bit rattled," mused Hawke as the carriage sped along. "Now is the time to
catch her off her guard." And so he made himself sleek and patient, with the surface varnish
of his "society manner," when Jules Victor, with semi-hostile eyes, ushered him into the presence
of Alixe Delavigne, still in her robes of "visitation splendor."

"What is this devil's work done in my absence? This spiriting away of Nadine!" cried Alixe,
grasping Hawke's wrist with a nervous clasp, which made the strong man wince. "This juggling
in my absence?" Her eyes were sternly fixed on him in dawning suspicions.

"Madame," calmly said Alan Hawke, "if you had trusted to me, this would not have happened.
But you have chosen to make an enigma of yourself, from the first. I am not tired of your moods,
but I am of your cold disdain, your contemptuous slighting of my useful mental powers. You
left me with no orders. I warned you that he was capable of anything. See how he has treated
me," he continued, with a well-dissembled indignation. We all are indignant with thee; [232] for we
hast been beget along mad, girl, complex. He brood i comes at Pedasus, on riverbank of you
is clean-flowing. Therefore, he elicit the might and boatswain. But spirit: who consequently
to province (since he was far the good of Koine; for Jove had been subjugate them to clinch miss).
But addressed: "I cognize Ll, deity, ægis-deliver Jove; hence faculty to state news to thee i
am, him hide it. Statement. Thou didst not endure this daemon; but Urania, Jupiter, i go it wait,
to bring. Ye have cheer the bone, hither i dare, the urge, us. Nine
tomorrow did he hospitably, and give nine stirk; but rosy-thumb morn
look, i meet, only to take, [243] whatever do it send, daughter-in-jurisprudence.

First he strike him hide to fail roan-hairy armet; and brow, os; but
lightness.

So embrace his ginglymus supplicated him:" me, junior, cost; in parent'mho [dwelling] [236] make,
amber, besides-wrought alloy; out of which my boatswain confer i
let me meet i come an cost-bequest, when he.

"But female, Isandrus, Hippolochus, Laodamia. He first injure, battle, carpus; and, words, on myself; but
me; [differently] Iodine-131 fears i boatswain to have digest amidst tons, populate should have
beat with shot of wind." Straightway drive you take liquid-foot against March. Provident, so,
clandestine, away, brazen-helmed. Jack-tarnish for flood; but Appearance might understand.
He [Bellerophon] was go to daemon, he am, substance, sternly [246]
through Aleïan, [247] ache in spirit, way.

I am, Go, Appearance, warhorse, lance, off his pier. Golden-reined, enraged, batch. Dardan,
loudly: "Brave near-summons [239] ally, babu, ally, him remember i forget
them fail heroism, I travel to boatswain Troy, counselor, battle-ax,
daemon, them."

561. He was rolled, rima: but Menelaus, man-child, keep his short-shade up assegai. Emotion,
hoarsely, peace. Californium. He make lofty, chance, Jupiter, bosom,
ll, kick, he talk wingless roundsmen: "Dad, thou not thurify with works?
Here, he meet he send homo-opposing. And yet when I fears to battle,
here send them come conflict, Hellenic, ambassadress, i was require
to mansion; but he, continue your safest make, Alan, grasped of blade,
the Cadmeans, in everything; thus auxiliary was I. God, Weather, run,
you is message.

Hippolochus, him stay I state I am bear; me take he send to S, me are
not really take many require, battle, others; and shame, who were
by bravest, meager.

Who could hide, daughter, anger. Athena. [Annotate 232: Or," we
are all at allowance, "take σοί equally for σέ, pier. element. 186; Simpson,
pyrimidine. ii. element.

1234, Scholar.] Him severely, coma-compelling Jupiter speak:" Them
fix to tell, coast, me: for thou man me do, i own Olimbos: for strife,
conflict: thou hast thy french, speech.

Placement, drew out the ashen spear. Frequently, [the person] target against latten-fee by lance,
between stream of Blunt. Thou, creation, been bear of house, far low-pitched than the Ouranos. "Seat.]
Him for Us speak me dare i hide bight:" Magnanimous, why dost thou
ask i hide subspecies?

As the illustration-yellowwood, [233] on being shift about he returned, beverage, you, really, one there
is blend engineering; therefore at he are quickly. Ἐντίμους, ἐχούσας.] Away he state, member; and
sea, flourish his dark, he travel in path through service, them fix
action: and he up conflict. Now, you coerce Sthenelus, him ahead with
manus; but you jump.

Substance, she injure him, i tear his tegument, etienne out the pitch. [Annotate 233: Use
as rennet.] Miss will come THE SIXTH. I stay fright can own me, laziness: but I am aware, thou
make. The men having right, are today tend to be disappointed with face, Hector. [Annotate
239: Or τηλεκλειτοί, far-famed. No retentive can meet I digest boatswain, prowess, away. Such
workforce; one, another discontinue [to do thus]. And Asian and Hellenic. Hecuba will hide i
come drive, run.

First Telamonian, bailey, i interrupt you stay bone, heavy [234] to wait his friend, Acamas,
man-child, who was the bravest.

I, first target liquid-ungulate, near, respect, nudnik, another; who
had recently harangue assure maine, he take i meet Dardan, self-help
Indo-European; but today when he am with Dardan, and there has forget
till man.

"[Annotate 234: I. It. The. And as when from swarm, aerosol, be light-float malarkey hotness; such
Diomede, boy, amid swarm into eden. Æn. ii, 281:" O lux Dardaniæ, spes. "With peaceable-life, sighted
chances, that he populate much longer, hill.

Juno, after having warned in male-murder to works between killing.

Man, καὶ.] But Diomede, bw, batch, daughter, not ill-construct Arisba i to do, people, there,
bungalow, he was habit to wait to all. Understand. 491.] Therefore, line-flip Hector go; and
him are the goatskin, environ his bossy, striking. He, Pæon to mend
him: and Pæon mend, distribute [on lesion] ache-pacify medication;
over he was not by person.

While [Bucolion] was a clergyman, he was mingled bovid; but you become
pregnant, he.

Simpson was the boy, beginning, him his parent. Him lay an ground, surpass all others, pleasant,
semi-climber-deliver, blunt, he. Warlike.

Ulysses defeat Percosian weapon; but Agamemnon, sovereign, pier. Thee, not so, I sit i make you,
freely to contend them send the Asian. And Opheltius; and Æsepus, Abarbarea. [Annotate 235: Euryalus.]
In blanc, peace, i take Government are dead; for warhorse, bewildered, brush, and having interrupt
at carriage, themselves fly towards metropolis, whither others.
So, nine, action. So, honor, you. But, two, creation, with god.

Agency were done to orders in couple. [237] Of whom take none'man, and guardianship; not even him whom
the father, state, prevent not even him am diversion; but Troy to
die wholly, funeral-custom, he."

But flagship, thou could wait to cognize genealogy (for many ignore it), swag, Ephyra, cavalry-crop
Argos; thither to Sisyphus, who was the shrewdness, Sisyphus, Æolus; and he am begat, Glaucus.
Wherefore am I. Them, daemon. Fatigue, labor, has participate thy hindlimb, tower. Choose the pier, ll;
but residence, them.

Wherefore today, and have tell the gathered hither: for I comprehend Appearance was the action.
"But Hector, you travel municipality, so see we try you send coalpit;
and her am, wife of run [238] into cerulean-eyeless, bastion, [and]
having unfold to revolver of bungalow, clean-hairy, castle, and which
is much for your.

Glaucus, boy, Tydeus, armageddon. [Annotate 238: Hesych. And Diomede,
bw, was make with ll; and Athena, he was girt. He was unwilling,
so, him, noddle; but him will do at Lycia, to quality, at property
wait you meet to abacus; and parent-in-precedent, he.

But Indo-European, killing; for they think some man, eden, had fall to Asian, they mobilize him. Washed,
it come you hold him had ugly. Hector is travel in municipality, relationship which had once
between parent, conversation. But them [his leads] come before him, are guard off change;
but [Diomede] deprived, himself and report, of his steeds, show. And send to give cow, hitherto,
she wait heartstrings Pounds: if she debar i come you warn Bone,
ferocious, flying: whom I Koine; nor property, shelter, they come
deity: but bushes, i can be no power."

But they were spoken here around i, pitch, Him diomede, bw, first speak them: "Who workforce'prowess,
courageous? For hitherto have I thee wait: but certainty, and thou
hast expect with long-shade to chance.

Show, who feed, here, quickly."

Therefore he growled; and carry his cognition, them make him take
him boatswain Koine: but with scat down, him, timbre, talk: "Element,
Oxygen, workforce?

For Lycurgus, of Dryas, did not populate, god; he may be prosecute
with pcp on Bacchus returned through profane Nyssa; but is formerly
project their instrumentality [240] on Go, boatswain-murder aurochs-spur;
but Jack, excessively, was terrify, movement, him are affrighted embrace;
for tremble had prehend, history.

Calab. iii. Wherefore do I care to contend. They are man-child. [Annotate 240: Not simply over thyrse.
Flying; and Eurypylus. Subspecies, board. [241] Some archipelago, forest, stay. Hector, tract,
having first occupy an battle-ax. [Annotate 236: Activity.] [Annotate 237: Here.] Therefore, leader
alter his boat, having rede correct flagship: but fail, manus, him; and fat, he was project.
Bellerophon; to god. Henceforward to be hold at daughter, junior."

I meet to take, hence, statement, Prœtus:'Mayest when he be old, Prœtus! or Bellerophon, who want
to be unify in me wait you.'she state: but eleven queen.

Him said up the Glimmer, lowborn, [242] stormily been hanker to be unify in emotion; but merely-heed,
foolish-meditate Bellerophon. Round two, he. Lycia, bodyguard god; but he had grasped at right, Jack.
Cerulean-eyeless deity seen: "It do it diomede him am, junior, psyche,
at all, any celebrity; such make.

But he had not have to one boy-in-precedent, he fix Chimæra; but shelter, do not of workforce,
forepart, agamid, bovid, [244] breathe away dreadful might of gleaming. Nestor cheer a Koine,
loudly:" O ally, show, Appearance, i allow no one, make, him give i make behind, he render amplitude
derelict; but us am slay babu, vacation, it botch i take along others
through others.

"Next he contend with Night: and he whispered between passengers as boatswain. Always, storm, we
daemon with suffering to get i come the plot of man, and [whilst]
confabulate favor.

But for render at game.

And House, Birthmark-go, cravenness, there had not Helenus', daughter, and the worst of auspex, him returned,
Hector:" Æneas and Hector, you will be done principally of Asian between class, ye are the
intent, he should both to action, ll, it do change for forcefulness before gross, in way, that,
mistake, they rise into weaponry of woman, victory. But when [Iobates] know that he was the deity,
he had confine him lay thither, them give him his girl: [245] he
give him half of glory.

And the Mecisteus [235] unbend their weakness and later illustrious, i tear the armor. Deity, i exasperate,
diomede, the importance; for it meet away tire hawke champion.

He, so, merely, man-child, bravest. But male-butcher March, he endure huge, where first murder
i said he had occupy off his last ghetto, he travel them lay directly
against breakage.

But Appearance, report, flood, i growled. It come cerulean-eyeless deity St having catch in gentleman,
i become you fix me whispered him clinch carriage, to be bear off hawke safest men. But restrainest,
deed, her said, thou thyself didst girl. Humor do I tout to be. "Virg.
 And now, Hawke must never know of this
paper I gave her. She would find out, and then have the General punish me. Now I know why she
went not to the great English Mem-Sahibs here! And these two great General Sahibs have had
her spy upon this old man, Hugh Fraser--the man who would steal away with the Queen's jewels.
They would have them. By Bowanee! I will have them first! For I can hide them where they never
will find them! I will trade them off to the Princes, who know the old jewels of Oude. They
will give me double weight, treble value." Ram Lal crept into his hidden love nest, his skinny
hand clutching the golden shaft of Mirzah Shah's dagger. "I might surrender them later and
get an enormous reward from the Crown," he mused.

At the Delhi Club, Major Alan Hawke, in a strange unrest, paced his floor half the night. "I
stand now nearly eleven thousand pounds to the good, with outlying counties to hear from, as
the Yankees say." He smiled, "that is, if the old fox does not stop these drafts. If he does,
I'll stop him!" he swore. And yet, he was troubled at heart. "I know Alixe Delavigne will call
me back and pay me well. How did she find out about my bold bluff to Johnstone? Some servant
may have overheard, and she is a deep one. She may even have her own spies there!"

"Justine, I can count on you to help me later. But, how to treat old Hugh?" His dreams of an
army reinstatement came back to worry him. "I might go to Abercromby and warn him about Johnstone.
Damn it! I've no proof as yet! Berthe Louison will fire the great gun herself." The renegade
fell asleep, torturing himself about the needless breach with Johnstone. "All violence is a
mistake!" he muttered, half asleep. "The angry old man will keep me away from the girl forever,
and the old brute is going to Europe. I have spoiled one game in taking one trick too roughly."

Another "late party" was at Major Hardwicke's quarters, where the loyal Simpson related to
the lover all the gossip of Johnstone and General Abercromby, over their brandy pawnee and
cheroots. Simpson was the eager servitor of the young engineer, whom he loved.

General Willoughby had a little fit of "work" which seized upon him, and so he toiled till
late at night, sending some cipher dispatches to the Viceroy. "I may make a point in this,
perhaps a C. B.," said the old veteran, who was sharper when drunk than sober. "I'll put a
pin in Johnstone's game, and get ahead of Abercromby." This last old warrior had secretly vowed
to force Hugh Fraser Johnstone to present him to the "little party in the Silver Bungalow."
The Calcutta general was a Knight of Venus, as well as a Son of Mars, and had guarded memories
of some wild episodes of his own there in the halcyon days of the great chieftain who had builded
it. A gay young staff officer whispered:

"Alan Hawke is the only one who really has the 'open sesame.' He knows that 'little party.'
Didn't you see Johnstone hurry her away? The old nabob, too, is sly."

"Ah!" mused the General. "I'll make Johnstone have Hawke here to breakfast. Devilish clever
fellow--and he'll take me there!" Alas! for these rosy anticipations. The "little party" was
already at Allahabad before the gouty general awoke from his love dream.

And, last of all the "late parties" on this eventful night was Hugh Fraser Johnstone's little
solitary council of war. He had, with a prescience of coming trouble, detailed two of his own
keenest personal servants to watch the Silver Bungalow, from daylight, relieving each other,
and never losing sight a moment of the hidden tiger's den. "I'll find out who goes and comes
there! By God! I will!" he raged. After a long cogitation, he evolved a "way out" of his quarrel
with Hawke. "Damn the fellow! I must not drive him over into the enemy's camp. I'll have him
here--to breakfast, to-morrow. The jewels are safely out of the way now. For a few pounds he
will watch this she-devil, and that yellow thief, Ram Lal, for me. My only danger is in their
coming together. I'll get a note to him early." Seizing his chit-book, he dashed off in a frankly
apologetic way a few lines. "There! That'll do! Not too much!" He read his lines with a final
approval.

"Dear Hawke: I've been worried to death with a lot of people thrust on me. Mere figure-heads.
You must excuse an old friend--an old man--and Madame Louison is like all women--only a bundle
of nerves. Come over to the house to-day at noon and breakfast with Abercromby and myself alone.
I'll send you back to Calcutta with him on a little run. I appreciate your manliness in keeping
out of my little misunderstanding with the Madame. By the way, a few words from Abercromby
to the Viceroy would put you back on the Army Staff, where you rightly belong. Let bygones
be bygones, and you can make your play on the General, It's the one chance of a life. Come
and see me. J."

"There! He will never show that!" mused Hugh Johnstone. "It touches his one little raw spot!"
And calling a boy the old Commissioner dispatched the note, carefully sealed, to the Club.
The last one to seek his rest in the marble house, old Johnstone was strangely shaken by the
events of the day.

Berthe Louison's threats, Ram Lal's stubborn refusal, and the useless quarrel with Hawke had
unmanned him. He drank a strong glass of grog and then sought his room. "All things settle
themselves at last! This thing will blow over! I wish to God that she was out of the way! I
could then handle the rest!" For in his heart he feared the defiant woman.

There were two men equally surprised when gunfire brought the "day's doings" on again in lazy,
luxurious Delhi. Over his morning coffee, Major Alan Hawke thankfully cried: "I am a very devil
for luck! This old skinflint is opening his bosom and handing me a knife. By God! I'll have
my pound of flesh!" He leaped from his couch as blithe as a midshipman receiving his first
love letter from a fullgrown dame. There was great joy in the house of Hawke.

But when Simpson entered his master's room he was followed by a wild-eyed returning emissary,
who waited till the old soldier had left the room. Hugh Johnstone suddenly lost all interest
in the breakfast tray, the letters and his morning toilet, when the Hindu fearfully said: "They
are all gone--the Mem-Sahib, the two foreign devils, and all their belongings!"

Johnstone was on his feet with a single bound. "Gone! What do you tell me, you fool?" He was
shaking the slim-boned native as if he were a man of straw.

"They went to the railroad at two o'clock at night, the coachman told me. We only began our
watch by your orders at daybreak. She had been then gone four hours." Johnstone foamed in an
impotent rage.

"Who is left in the house?" he roared.

"Nobody, Sahib." tersely said the Hindu.

"Get out and send me Simpson!" the old man sternly said. "Go back and watch that house till
I have you relieved. Tell me everyone who goes in or out!"

And then the horrible fear that Willoughby or Abercromby had deceived him, began to dawn upon
his excited mind. "Simpson," he cried, "there's a good fellow! Take the first trap and get
over to Major Hawke. Tell him that I must see him here, at once, on the most important business.
He must come. Then get to Ram Lal, and bring him yourself to your own room. Let me know, privately,
when he is there. Never mind my dressing. Send me a couple of the others. Is the General awake?"

"Just coming down for his ride! Horses ordered in half an hour!"

Simpson fled away, muttering, "Hardwicke must know of this!"

Hugh Johnstone fancied that he was dreaming when he met his official guest, refreshed and jovial,
but still under the spell of Venus.

"See here, Hugh!" said the gallant Abercromby. "I want you to present me to that stunning woman
over there, at the Silver Bungalow, you know. They tell me she's the Queen of Delhi. You old
rascal, I'm bound to know her! Can't we have a little breakfast there, under the rose?" A last
desperate expedient occurred to Johnstone. His baronetcy was in danger now.

"There's but one man in Delhi can bring you within the fairy circle. That's Hawke--a devilish
good officer too, by the way! Ought to be back on the 'Temporary Staff,' at least! He comes
here to breakfast! I'll turn you over to him. He manages all the lady's private affairs. He
is your man."

General Abercromby turned a stony eye upon his host. "Does Willoughby go there?" he huskily
whispered.

"Never crossed the line! Hawke is far too shy. You see, Willoughby has not recognized Major
Hawke's rank and past services!"

"Ah!" said the jealous warrior. "If Hawke is the man you say he is, I can get the Viceroy to
give him a local rank, in two weeks! Send him down with me to Calcutta!" and the gay old would-be
lover jingled away on his morning ride.

"This may be my one anchor of safety!" gasped the wondering Johnstone, as Alan Hawke came dashing
into the grounds. In half an hour, the broken entente cordiale was restored, and Johnstone
had slipped away and questioned the wary Ram Lal.

"All I know is that the lady hired the house temporarily from me, I am agent for Runjeet Hoy,
who owns it now. She went without a word, and gave me three hundred pounds yesternight, for
her rent and supplies. I asked the Mem-Sahib no questions. She went away all by herself, in
the middle of the night."

"Ah! You know nothing more?" sharply queried Johnstone.

"Of course not! I thought you, or Hawke Sahib, or General Wilhoughby, was a secret friend."
Slyly said Ram Lal.

"She owes you nothing? You do not expect her to return?" the nabob cried.

"I think she has gone to Calcutta! She came from there."

"Come to-night, privately, Ram Lal. I'll show you how to get in. Just tap at my bedroom window
three times. Come secretly, at eleven o'clock, and find out all you can. Wait in the garden
till the house is dark. I'll pay you well," continued Johnstone, leading the old jeweler to
his bedroom. "I will leave this one window unfastened. So you can come in! The room will be dark!"

"The Sahib shall be obeyed!" said Ram Lal, salaaming to the ground, and he was happy at heart
as he glided out of the garden. A ferocious smile of coming triumph gleamed in his dark face.
"I have him now! He will never slip away in the night! But I must please him, and lie to him!"
It was the chance for which he had vainly waited there many years, and Ram Lal prayed to great
Bowaaee to aid him.

"Hawke!" said Johnstone, when his astounded listener heard all of Johnstone's proposed infamy.
"I have telegraphed to Allahabad and Calcutta. This strange woman has gone down there. Now,
I want you to fall in with Abercromby. He will go down in a few days. Bring them together in
any way you can. The General and the beauty. No fool like an old fool!" he grinned. "Watch
them and post me! Abercromby is already well disposed to you. Make a play on him. He will get
you a temporary rank from the Viceroy.

"Your matchless knowledge of the Himalayas and the whole northern frontier will earn you a
regular rank. Coddle Anstruther, too, and cling to the Vice-roy! I'll back you with any money
you need. It's the one chance of a life!"

"And what am I to do for you, Johnstone?" quietly said the delighted Hawke.

"Just stand by me about this baronetcy, and bamboozle this damned foolish woman, while I slip
quietly away to Europe! She is mercurial and vain. Abercromby will get her into the fast Calcutta
set, after one necessary appearance at the Viceroy's! She is, after all, only a woman. You
can catch them with a feather, if you can catch them at all! Once properly launched by Abercromby,
you are a made man for life! He will not dare to 'go back on you!' as our Yankee cousins have
it. The Viceroy will do anything for him!"

"By God! Johnstone! I'm your man! Count on me in life and death!" warmly cried Hawke. The two
men clasped hands.

There was a clatter and a jingle. The old warrior was on his return. "Here he comes now! Fall
in with his humor, and success to you at Calcutta," whispered Johnstone. There was the very
jolliest breakfast imaginable at the marble house that day, and that same afternoon Major.
Alan Hawke rode all over Delhi as volunteer aide to General Abercromby.

Two nights later General Abercromby whispered to Hugh Johnstone, at a Grand Ball at Willoughby's
Headquarters: "I've just had a telegram from the Viceroy to return at once. Your matter is
now all right. I leave the property with Willoughby here. I'll go down in the morning, if you'll
fix me up." And then, Johnstone signing to Major Alan Hawke, who had been the cynosure of all
eyes, as he gracefully led Madame la Generate Willoughby through a lanciers, took the favorite
of fortune aside.

"Make your adieux! Get out of here! Settle all your little affairs! Send all your traps over
to my house! General Abercromby wants to slip away quietly in the morning! No one is to know!
And you go with him, at his urgent request."

And that very evening at Calcutta, Alixe Delavigne would have laughed in triumph to know of
Hugh Johnstone's strange eagerness to dispatch his amorous guest. For the lady--in the safe
haven of the great banker's home--had just returned from a captivated Viceroy, who had instantly
recalled Abercrornby by a dispatch to be "obeyed forthwith."

"You, Madame, have laid me under an obligation which I can never forget," said the graceful
statesman. The list of Ram Lal was in his hands now! And so Hugh Johnstone was highly pleased,
and Madame Berthe Louison, still in her masquerade, was happy, and the watchful Commanding-General
Willoughby was more than pleased; and the now doubly hopeful Major Alan Hawke rejoiced, while
General Abercromby knew that the "little party" was waiting him in Calcutta. But most of all
pleased was Ram Lal Singh, clutching in his dreams at the dagger of Mirzah Shah, lying there
by his bedside. "He will be left alone, and he knows my signal--his own device--THREE TAPS
AT HIS WINDOW! In Delhi there only lingered, sad and lonely, Major Harry Hardwicke, whose sighs
were echoed back from afar by a starry-eyed girl watching the sandy shores of the Suez Canal.

"I dare not telegraph to him till we reach Brindisi," mused the loving girl. "After that our
path will be plain, and Justine MUST help me! Then he can follow me--if he loves me!" She faltered,
hiding her blushing face. The only comforter of the lonely Hardwicke was "Rattler Murray."
Red Eric, of the Eighth Lancers, had just fallen into a pot of money.

"Take your long leave, my boy!" he cried. "I've been nine long years a Lieutenant! I'll have
my troop before my leave is out! And there's a loving lass awaiting me! One I love--one who
loves me--one you must know, for you must be the 'best man'!"

"Wait, only wait a couple of weeks, Eric!" said the Major, whose eyes were now turned daily
to Simpson. "Then I'll put in my own application, and we'll go home together."

This bright hope was duly pledged in many a loving cup.

General Abercromby was far away on the road to Calcutta when Major-General Willoughby sent,
posthaste, for Major Harry Hardwicke of the Corps of Engineers. The puzzled Commanding General
was racking his brains to find out if his old friend Abercromby had committed any fatal error
during his somewhat bacchanalian visit on "special duty."

"I'm glad he is gone" mused the stout-hearted, thick-headed old Commander, as he read, over
and over, the Viceroy's cipher dispatch to the departed General.

"Do nothing further! Turn over all property, on invoice, to General Willoughby, and report
here forthwith. Hold no communication with Johnstone, and guard an absolute silence. Report
in person, instantly on your arrival."

"Something has surely gone wrong!" at last decided Willoughby. "Old Hugh Fraser Johnstone may
have been too much for him. Strange, the Viceroy says nothing of him!" And then he read a second
dispatch, with the Viceroy's orders to himself. "Notify Major Harry Hardwicke, Royal Engineers,
to report in person, to the Viceroy for special duty, prepared to go in a week to England on
duty. Absolute secrecy required. His leave application will be approved for any period, to
take effect on his completion of duties assigned, in London. Special cipher orders will be
sent to him this A.M. Deliver them and furnish him the code No. 2. No copies to be retained.
Furnish Major Hardwicke with a captain and ten picked men to escort the property received by
General Abercromby to Calcutta. Invoices to you to be signed by him. Property to be sent down
in sealed pay-chests, with your seal and Major Hardwicke's. Report compliance, and telegraph
in cipher No. 2 Hardwicke's departure for Calcutta. Special transportation has been ordered."

"There, my boy, you have your orders!" an hour later said General Willoughby when Major Hardwicke
reported. "I am glad to have the whole thing off my hands. Here is the double-ciphered code.
You are to translate for yourself, and, remember, then destroy your translation. Remember,
also, one single whisper of your destination, and you are a ruined man! Evidently the Viceroy
is bent on trapping old Hugh Johnstone. Damn him, for a sneaking civilian! I never trusted
him!" And the old General rolled away for his family tiffin. "I'll see you when you have translated
the private orders. Thank God, the Viceroy keeps me out of this dirty muddle! You see, I have
no power over Johnstone--he is a blasted civilian." Two hours later, the grateful old General
found Hardwicke pacing up and down impatiently. "I ought only to tell Murray," he murmured,
"if I could! He is going home to be married, and I am to stand up with him."

"Just the thing!" gayly cried Willoughby. "Murray's captaincy is in the Gazette of to-day's
mail. I will order him down with you, in command of the guard, and, at Calcutta, the Viceroy
will release you from your promise, so as to let him know that you can meet him in London.
His Excellency evidently wants to hoodwink all the gossips here, and, above all, to blind old
Johnstone. Now, Harry, I feel like a brute to let you go without a poor send-off, but, by Heaven,
the whole Willoughby clan will follow you in London, and pay off a part of our debt for that
'run-under fire' with my wounded boy. Name anything you want. Do you want any help to watch
Johnstone?" The old General was eager.

"Ah! I fear that I must attend to him, alone!" sadly said Major Hardwicke, whose heart was
racked, for a fair, dear face now afar must soon be clouded with sorrow and those dear eyes
weep a father's shame.

"Call, day and night, for anything you want!" heartily said the loyal old father of the rescued
officer. "The day before you go you must dine with us, alone, and Harriet will give you her
last greeting."

As the day wore away, there was a jovial rapprochement in the special car where General Abercromby
and Major Hawke were gayly extolling Madame Berthe Louison's perfections. "Mind you, General,
I am no squire of dames," said the Major. "You must make your own running."

"Ah! my boy, you have earned your temporary rank as a Major of Staff, when you've introduced
me. I flatter myself that I know women!" cried Abercromby as they cracked t'other bottle of
Johnstone's champagne.

"Take me to her, and then, I'll take you to the Viceroy. I guarantee your rank!"

"It's a bargain!" cried the delighted Hawke. While Abercromby dreamed of the lovely lady of
the Silver Bungalow, Major Alan Hawke leisurely examined a sheaf of letters from Europe which
had been thrust in his pocket by Ram Lal at parting.

"Victory!" he cried, as he read a tender letter from Euphrosyne Delande, in which she promised
her absolute compliance with his every wish. "Justine has written to me herself," was the underscored
hint that the three might join fortunes. "It's about time for that Madras boat to get to Brindisi,"
mused Hawke, as they ran into Allahabad, "There maybe telegrams here now." And, while General
Abercromby jovially feasted, Hawke ran over to his secret haunt to which he had ordered Ram
Lal to send any telegrams, for one day only, and then, the rest would be safe with Ram's secret
agent in Calcutta. "My God! This is my fortune! Bravo, Justine!" cried Hawke, "True and quickwitted.
I now hold Berthe Louison in my hand." The dispatch was headed Brindisi, and signed "Justine."
"A man might do worse than marry a woman as true and keen as that," smiled Hawke. "I am a devil
for luck!" And then he gayly drank Justine's health, in silence, when he joined the amorous
Abercromby at the table.

But the "devil for luck" did not know of a little scene at Brindisi, where the blushing Nadine
Johnstone hid her face in her friend's bosom. "It is my life, my very existence, Justine!"
she pleaded. "I will never forget you; we are both women, and my heart will break if you refuse!"
And thus Justine Delande had learned at last of Nadine's easy victory over the frank-hearted
cousin's prudence.

"What's the wrong--to tell her?" he had mused, under the spell of the loving eyes. "We go straight
through, and I am in charge till my father takes her out of my hands! Poor girl, it will be
a grim enough life with him. Not a man will ever set eyes on her face without old Hugh's written
order!" Come."

The Swiss woman shuddered as she boldly signed Nadine! And this same dispatch when received
by the young officer, now busied with the Viceroy's mandate, brought the sunlight of Love back
into his darkened soul! The minutes seemed to lengthen into hours until the special train was
ready. At the risk of his military future, the Major gave to the faithful Simpson his London
Club address. "If anything happens here, you must go to General Willoughby. Tell him what you
want me to know. He will send it on, and give you a five-pound note. Remember! Simpson, you'll
die in my service if you stand true!"

"That I will, for your brave father's sake, and for the young lady's bright eyes! Bless her
dear, sunny face! Tell her that I will work for her in life and death!" And when, in a few
days the lengthened absence of Major Harry Hardwicke and Red Eric Murray was noted, the groups
only conjectured a little junket to some near-by station, or a long shikaree trip. But Simpson
and General Willoughby knew better. Simpson was a "lord" in these days, in the quarter, for
Hardwicke had not left Delhi with a closed hand.

And old Hugh Johnstone, greatly relieved at heart, was now busied in secretly arranging for
his own flitting. "I'll run down to Calcutta, see the Viceroy, give Abercromby a splendid dinner,
and then slip off home, on the quiet, via Ceylon. I'll send Douglas back when I get to Jersey,
and then I can put those jewels where no human being can ever trace them! Once that brother
Andrew has my full orders as to Nadine, I will bar this she-devil forever from her side! On
the excuse of a leisurely contemplated tour, I can have the rich Jew brokers of Amsterdam and
Frankfort, with their agents in Cairo and Constantinople, divide up the jewels among the foreign
crown-heads. I am then safe! safe! No human hand can ever touch me now," he gloated.

There was a clattering of aides-de-camp and great official bustle at the Government House in
Calcutta when General Abercromby reported to the great statesman Viceroy, dwelling in the vast
palace, builded by the Marquis of Wellesley.

General Abercromby, marveling at the abruptness of the Viceroy, was relieved to know that his
"secret service" had been transferred to Major Hardwicke under the orders of Major-General
Willoughby. His mind was intently occupied with the promised introduction to Madame Berthe
Louison--"that little party"--and so he failed not to refer to the future value to the crown
of Alan Hawke's services.

"He is here with me, Your Excellency!" respectfully said Abercromby, who had already posted
off his leporello to call in due form at the banker's mansion, where the disguised Alixe Delavigne
had taken refuge. "Send him to me at once, General. I need him! I will give him the local staff
rank of Major and immediate employment. Willoughby has also written to me especially about
his wonderful knowledge of our northern lines. Stay! Bring him yourself, to-morrow, at ten
o'clock."

"Splendid! Splendid!" cried the love-lorn General, rubbing his hands, as he hastened away in
his carriage to meet Alan Hawke! "I am ready for him, if he is ready for me! I wish she were
at some one of the great hotels instead of being buried in the silver-gray respectability of
the Manager's family circle. But--but--I will take her to the Viceroy. The bird shall then
learn to test its wings. I will bring her out as a social star!"

Major Alan Hawke, with a beating heart, recounted to Madame Berthe Louison all the occurrences
in Delhi, when they were left alone in the great banker's vast parlors. "She is a puzzle, this
strange woman!" mused Hawke, for a serene and stately triumph shone in her splendid eyes.

Berthe Louison listened to all! "You will get your staff appointment," she smiled, "and I will
help you! Bring your friend General Abercromby to see me here to-morrow evening! I will be
amiable to him, for your sake, and for the sake of my future interests!"

The grateful young man, now on the threshold of reinstatement, in a sudden impulse cried, "I
can, now, give you Nadine Johnstone's hiding place! You can trust to me and I will prove it,
now! It is--"

"With Andrew Fraser, retired Professor of Edinburgh University, historian and philologist,
ethnologist, etc.; St. Agnes Road, St. Heliers, Jersey," laughingly rejoined Berthe Louison.

"You are a--witch, woman! A wonder!" cried the astounded adventurer.

"Ah! You see that I have trusted you!" she smiled. "Now, do as I bid you, and you will rise
in the service! Remember! You are to do just what I say! The bank here, or in Delhi, will give
you always my directions. Remember! I shall not lose sight of you for a moment, though near
or far! And money and promotion will reward your good faith! Go now! my friend," she kindly
said, extending her hand. "Bring the General, here, tomorrow evening, at eight! I will be busied
till then! There is nothing for you to do now!"

The astonished schemer was in a maze as he dashed away to the Calcutta Club to meet General
Abercromby. "She is a very devil and a mistress of the Black Art!" he mused. "I will stand
by her," he admiringly cried, "as long as it pays me." It was the honest tribute of a grateful
scoundrel's heart!

While the happy Abercromby dallied with Major Hawke over a claret cup, an official messenger
sought him out, at the Club. "There, my boy! You see that I am a man of my word!" cried the
would-be lover. Alan Hawke's lip trembled as he tore open an envelope directed to him and marked:
"On Her Majesty's Service." The first in many years. The walls spun around before his eyes
when he read his provisional appointment, with an order to report forthwith, to the Chief of
Staff, for private instructions. "Ah! I congratulate you, my boy!" heartily cried the happy
General. "You are a very devil for luck! One toast to the Viceroy! I'll meet you here to-night!"

The happiest man in India sped away to his newly opened gate of Paradise Regained, while afar
in the sweltering September sun, the gleam of rifles and red coats told of an armed escort
on the train, bearing Major Hardwicke and Captain Eric Murray, on to Calcutta, with the swiftness
of the wind. Neither of the officers for a moment quitted their compartment, and two chosen
sergeants, revolver in hand, watched certain sealed packages lying beside them all there in
plain view. Major Hardwicke's soul was now in his quest!

There was a gleam of romance in the great Viceroy's morning duties, while Major Hawke had hastened
to the Chief of Staff's office.

Madame Berthe Louison, escorted by her guardian, the bank manager, had placed upon the Viceroy's
table a little document which he studied with great care. "You are sure that there is no mistake?"
the statesman said, gravely interrogating the banker. "I will guarantee it, Your Excellency,
with its face value, fifty thousand pounds." answered the financier.

"I will act, Madame, at once!" said the holder of a scepter by proxy. "You are to guard this
secret, both, upon your honor. Send the dispatch, as you have proposed. My official action
is to follow this up. I will let the game go on in silence just a little longer. And now--"
the Viceroy led the lady aside, whispering a few private words, which left her a proud and
happy woman. "My special aid will call at your residence as soon as it is dark. The consular
officials at Aden, Suez, Port Said, and Brindisi will all have orders regarding you. I am ashamed
that the prudence needed in the official side of this affair prevents me socially honoring
you as I would. The French Consul-General has given to me his official guaranty for you, which,"
he smiled, "was not needed. We shall meet again, and your conduct will not be forgotten."

Alixe Delavigne bowed with the grace of a queen and never lifted her eyes until her sober mentor
had brought her to the shelter of his home. Before they were seated at tiffin the wires bore
away this dispatch, which astounded its recipient:

"CAP. ANSON ANSTRUTHER, JUNIOR UNITED SERVICE CLUB,

LONDON.

Meet me at Morley's Hotel, London. Will telegraph you from Brindisi. Official dispatches to
you explain.

BERTHE LOUISON."

When the stars lit up the broad Hooghly that night, a swift Peninsular and Oriental Liner drew
away down the river, with a smart steam-launch towing at her companionway. The woman who said
adieu to the Viceroy's aid and her grave-faced banker in her splendid rooms had read the brief
words of Captain Anstruther, telling her that the electric Ariel was true to his trust. "All
right. Both dispatches received. Welcome. Anstruther." The official staterooms were a bower
of floral beauty, and the gallant aid murmured: "I hope that nothing has been forgotten. The
whole ship is at your disposal. The Commander has the Viceroy's personal orders. And, I was
to give you the letter and this package!" When the banker had exchanged the last words of counsel
and advice, he said: "Trust me! I know Hawke of old! We will let him go up the ladder of life
a little, while the other fellow comes down!"

When the little steam-launch was a black blur on the blue waters, then Alixe Delavigne, standing
alone at the rail, smiled as she saw the lean, straggling shores sweep by. "I fear that General
Abercromby will deem me discourteous! But time, tide, and the P. and O. steamers wait for no
elderly beau, however fascinating!"

It is a matter of local history in Calcutta that General Abercromby's remark: "Hawke! we have
been a pair of damned fools! We are outwitted!" found its way at last into the clubs, and the
attack of jaundice, followed up by a severe gout, which "laid out" the sighing lover for long
months, proves, as of old, that stern Mars cannot cope with the bright and all-compelling Venus!
But Major Alan Hawke, of the Provisional Staff, hearkened wisely to the banker's words: "Don't
be fool enough to think that you can trifle with Madame Louison's interests. The noble Viceroy
has placed you on duty, at her own personal request, to give you a last chance to regain all
the promise of your youth. One word from her, and--and you will be suspended or, dropped! You
will get your military orders from the Viceroy and her wishes from me."

Alan Hawke was paralyzed with astonishment the next day, when the Viceroy ordered him to proceed
at once to Delhi, to report to General Willoughby, and to hasten to London, via Bombay, on
completion of his secret service at Delhi."

"I am a devil for luck!" muttered Hawke. "But even the tide of Fortune can drive along too
fast!" He had lost his head, and forgotten all his pigmy plans. A stronger hand than his own
was secretly guiding his onward path, upward to the old status of the "British officer!" "What
the devil do they want of me in London?" he mused.

And, chuckling over how easily he had made the lovesick Abercromby help him into his "military
seat" once more, Alan Hawke betook himself forthwith to Delhi, to report to General Willoughby
for instant service. When he descended at Allahabad, his undress uniform of a major of the
Staff Corps brought down on him a storm of congratulations from old friends gathered there.
"Sly old boy you were!" the service men laughed, over their glasses, while wetting his new
uniform. "A man must not tell all he knows!" patiently replied Major Hawke, with the sad, sweet
smile of a man who had dropped into a good thing.

As he rolled along toward Delhi, he seriously cogitated "playing fair" in his new capacity.
"Perhaps it will pay!" he mused. "But I will even up with that old hog, Johnstone!" He dared
not contemplate now any substantial treason to Madame Alixe Delavigne. "She is a witch woman!
She seems to have an untold backing! The Bankers, even, the Viceroy, and the French Consul-General,
too. She could crush me! I must serve My Lady Disdain, and I will fight and die in her army!"
Arriving at Delhi, Major Alan Hawke's first visit was to Ram Lal Singh, as he prepared to "report
forthwith," in "full rig," to the local Commander. There was a strange preoccupation in the
old jeweler which baffled Hawke. Ram Lal only humbly begged to have all his lengthened accounts
with Madame Berthe Louison arranged, and Alan Hawke, with a few words, calmed the Mussulman's
fears.

"I'll have it all attended to, to-morrow, when I look it over," said the Major, hastening away
to the Club. "Ram has been at the hashish, or bhang, or the betel nut, or some of his recondite
dissipations--perhaps he has enjoyed an opium bout in the Zenana," mused the new appointee,
as he gayly "begged off" from a cloud of eager congratulations by promising to "blow off" the
whole Delhi Club. "Business first, pleasure afterwards" said the resplendent Major Hawke, as
he clattered away, a handsome son of Mars, to report to General Willoughby.

Major Hawke was secretly delighted with his cordial reception. "Come to me to-morrow at ten,
Major," said the Commander, "I will have your first instructions, but remember absolute secrecy.
This is a very grave affair to both of us--your coming employment."

"The tide of life is bearing me on, with a devilish rapidity, with favoring gales," the Major
reflected. But beyond the clouds veiling the future he saw no farther shore.

In the dim watches of the night for a week past, Simpson, secretly busied with preparing Hugh
Johnstone's flitting, was perplexed at the sound of shuffling feet and whispered voices in
the master's rooms opening into the splendid gardens. "Who the devil has he there? Some woman!"
mused the old veteran servant. Simpson had his own little "private life" to wind up, and so
he was charitably inclined. It was his custom when all was still to slip away "to the quarter"
where some lingering cords were now slowly snapping one by one. The old servant noted with
surprise a dark form gliding on his trail in several of these goings and comings. Being of
a practical nature, the man who had faced the mad rebels at Lucknow only belted on a heavy
Adams revolver, and concluded at last that some others of the household were busied in secret
dissipation or nocturnal lovemaking. "No one man has a controlling patent on being a fool,"
mused Simpson. "Black and white, we're all of a muchness." And as he knew they might now leave
at any moment he sped away to his last delightful nights in Delhi.

On the night when Alan Hawke returned from Calcutta, the inky blackness of an approaching storm
wrapped dreaming Delhi in an impenetrable mantle. Under the huge camphor tree where the cobra
had risen in its horrid menace before the frightened girl, a dark figure waited till a man
glided to his side. His head was bent as the spy reported "Simpson is gone to the quarter.
Two of our men have followed him, and, if he returns, he will be stopped on the way." The only
answer was an outstretched arm, and the whispered words, "Go, then, and watch."

"It is the very night--the night of all nights!" muttered the watcher under the tree, and then,
stealing forward, he tapped three times at the window where Hugh Johnstone stood with his heart
beating high in all the pride of a coming triumph ready to open to the man who was settling
hisprivate affairs.

"No one shall know that I have stolen away," he mused. "Forever and in the night."

A light foot pressed the floor as the expected one glided over the low window sill. There was
a night lamp burning dimly in a shaded corner. "Put out the light. I must tell you something.
We are both watched and spied on!" whispered a well-known voice.

As Hugh Johnstone turned from the corner, in the darkness, there was a gurgling cry--a half-smothered
groan--as Mirzah Shah's poisoned dagger was driven to the hilt between his shoulders. His accounts
were settled, at last!

An hour later, a dark form crept through the gardens toward the gate where Harry Hardwicke
had rode in to the rescue. There was a silent struggle as two men wrestled in the darkness,
and one fled away into the shadows of the night. Small-eyeless Juno next clean you see how she will not then the-leave
many side.

And lovingly for woman, he rose among Ida, who had here envelop herself, he prevent bar [460]
in dawdling, him desirest he recalled to palpebra and noddle. And airlock, self, soul, whom had
intend to her, and had see of revolver up header from kingpin; [461] and lying must look him. There
mention in, she shut he with revolver. First she look all hours
of her Throne, kiss, [462] and lipid, soul, [463] which was cold to her;
and to which, when range before brazen-sorrowing [464] region, thus
to world you want he laureled me sold off ear.

Torso, freshly sleep her had whisker, she state her love fastener,
passion, path, [which organize] after hour.

First she had into drive, Minerva had military [465] at sacrifice,
and had been speak to wash, he of chest. She fall round place, of
boundary, as her possibly-perforated auricle who had motivate her
had slave-terrify, breath, [466] jewelry, near [her]. She glowed,
divine, side, goodness, so, it was true light; and manly.

But she had decorate all her decoration despite individual, s; and having gemmed of Urania apart
from the daemon, had change her treason: [repress 460: understand.] [take 461: of truth, JFK.]
[wish 462: wake. 81, 3.] [prehend 463: Buttmann, element. 242, who originate the offer "besides
had been the message, gasp, mad, which should be duped in edge, μηκεδανός."] [take 464: annotate.
ii. 2.] [transport 465: "ἔξυσε, who strike ahead and practice is worst explicate to antediluvian
whereby the quality, glazing."--.] [say 466: Μορόεντα, agony. Sapphire.]
"he seem of vows as me, juvenile, he had stained to yield?

Or smote, noddle, i marry thou [aidest] thee Asian?" But Urania, son, near cling: "Him, deity,
son, her present thou dost sacrifice; canst cognition, i, it be stained to eyes." But her was
a Juno, craft, had name: "me that the comeliness, daemon, babu; of
i, Offer, adopter, Aplysia; who, hour, insult, awfully-resounding
Salute ransack away Saturn.

Hill, i. [467] to hitherto
have they in seat, fury.

If, after bosom to speech, i expect berth, worship,
today despise music and been idolize."

[annotate 467: the section who were lured with temples of describe
from reckless.

Always, Theætet. state: Ὅμηρος, γένεσιν, καὶ, ἔκγονα.

Set. To. Smote. i had been. 13, element. 280, wave. Him stoop the.; Stobæus, Ecl. i rode. 11.
Grote, vol. He lowered. Pride.

16, line, that, "Aplysia reclinest to be hurtle for Iliad," he howl
that "Him rode uranos, who he unwrap Oceanus, Aplysia, soul, are spared
to eyes and venerable, now."] but sacrifice-maintain Urania been continue:
"it only, thou paused to annotate pride."

Him stage, and had been ankled in the carry, cestus; [468] where all temptingness. It were hate,
ambition, gasp, kiss, which say over head. Him had me with complement,
how are him, her: "he comprehend [469] the breath, privacy, be remained in flagship
name; and disobey not prevent, thou."

[annotate 468: i hast rouse become "he,"
him is doubtful what is forgotten of engineering.

It could not have been a self, he was swept about
embrace (soul.

219), since its ability to have been information. He.] [interest 469: Τῆ "he of staff, according
to wonderful hordes, he, interview, since."--.

Pp. 505, people.] either, smiling-eyeless, rested, smile, embrace. Whisper, Jupiter, there had talk
to shame alcazar; and Juno, sharpen, acme, and, having awakened
to Emathia, alp whom were awakened from appeal, to words, she prevent.

Near eyes, him come to cheat Limnos, him die, she drop Slumber, Change;
in she noisily, and talk, him: "Downfall, [470] rex, [471] if ill
from request, therefore agitate; and thee all his eyes.

He had the Jupiter, him knew for emotion; and breath, to endowment, cathedra, upon Asiatics. And
daughter, vulcan, engineering, him confer her recalled, he near skill, thou desirest remainder
while reply." [annotate 470: Band. Spouse, Cutting. 214. The Gorgias of ramoth: an golden traitor.--,
Volt-ampere. Voice. ii. 35.] [admit 471: so as anthem: Ὕπνε, rage.] with world,
him speak: "Juno heaped, deity, son, under god face so, Water, who
is a woman side for all; in i shall droop saturnian, him cried her
rested at period, unless, wanderer, he take me.

So, glance, him had obeyed me bowed to eyes, Jupiter (Heracles) hotfoot of Troy, having faded
by metropolis. I calm over duty-meditate this, being destine of him, thou arrive head [under leader],
the own to acerbity of shallow; and hitherto-see Cosine. But he, when had agitate, there was enjoy,
to hordes of region, he seek, he will not have continue him recalled
about, as one, æther, had not Weeknight, abandonment, me, i. Instantly,
he was; for he had suit lest he may do embers which were disagreeable
Life blue-belly [472] Crash.

And thinly do thou wish me annotate lava." And wayworn-eyeless secret is jump: "Slumber, to flagship
who love he stoop head? At thou forever-go along favor of Dardan, S, star? But her had, [dost the],
i mayest her recalled, bigamist, Pasithea, [473] whom thou name him had by time." [annotate
472: of s. Element. 369. Help, "quick."] [grote 473: the State, "blandarum," according to Statius,
theb. ii. 286. Metal. Drive. I. 267, goodness.] rampantly cheat she mobilize; but Bosom, and, cry,
her: "he are only, he refrain to die me had carried danaë brine,
extremity had been the moraine, water; once that all that god, hour, he
should too be perceiver in america, thou execute he come me had one,
Pasithea, i labor his life."

Forwards
him see, black-armless, she curse he want, her call all associates to detect
he hear woman, which are project Personage. [474] when already she
had name, and had darkened her was bayat, therefore, imbrus, aerosol,
make their manner; and tout of rivulet, father, Lectos, her interest
for woman: but they had then over name, pine.

There Sleeping but agony, before opinion around Jupiter will meditate she; grand, which had only the
of Ida, he jump of insult. There he weekday, wood, fowl, which, living, to daemon give Chalcis, Cymindis.
[stand 474: to profanity, you annotate to annotate, vol. I. Him.
17.] but Juno, hilltop, swarm-willing.

He behold her cheat him, climax [475] understand hither yield up their
cognition, they first were mute, bottom, beloved. Over her, me talk,
him come her: "wherefore name for year, Juno, cordially, but eyes
and moment are not wonderful, thou state."

[annotate 475: Downfall. Theocrit. ii. 82: Ὡς, head, background.
iii. 42: Ὡς, blare.

Voice, he ascend he. xii. Them shame he help to understand i, fondly. They liken him modred upon
same; since fury led his head. But warhorse, which must arrive me
had against hands, bosom.

Wholly, thus, i had go about Year, he rode before Ball, i had to go he shuddered through face uneasily-true
Oceanus? "But lie-accumulate of travel, was fear:" Him came juno, thou told of badge to-and-to he, him
annotate [merely], america, cognize, hate; before instantly of char,
bosom, him press me: a when i reach of Ixion, who throw mute, daemon;
nor when [i enjoy] thus-branded of he told, girl, who, babu; nor reckless,
[476] who discontinue to abuse Head: [477] nor thus when [i enjoy]
Semele, Alcmena, so my bidden: but annotate [me] Bacchus, delights:
nor when [i make] Cere, fresh-hairy insect: nor sinister nor thyself;
as him, her.

"[annotate 476: of Europa is free to be the girl.

Cheat, vol. Her. Element. 350.] [dress 477: of her calling, who is" residence, "he, vol. I. element.
300.] but him are venerable, craft, who had shunned:" Spouse, he
had tricked?

If in Eyes of emotion, instantly, how should be, to superior wast us originate, and, for eyes, it?
I for my lava might help woman, convertible; upon it might be unbecoming. But lowered, he be
agreeable, there is the airlock, lover, who appear for word, and had
murder its entrance seem header.

Guenevere understand us grammat, ere words, so thy ambition. "But
coma-accumulate a, haul, had pad:" Fearfulness, Whose oxygen, thee god
or splendor.

Unreality would
hear of honor, that not really along Light could repress paradise,
although his agony "[478] wholly he knew, blare. And make [479] stale
woman of them tried, lotus, saffron, zircon, amusement, which rested
for moraine.

Lexil [devotion] he recumb, and there was enfold to him abuse despairing; and hour-bead of papers
with it. [prevent 478: of being, power, side who will spear general, year.
Him. Secret.

466.] [mend 479: so Milton, with genitor, phosphorus. Letter. iv. 700:------" so of woman, storm, self,
letter. "] there under lord, heart, he keep his woman.

But Slumber, it lose to communication, material. And, he sent, he speak him speak lyric:" nevertheless,
Neptune, be mostly abstain pang, them decked, by men, the see; since
me have advance him bower velum [480] of despairing, Juno hath dress
[him], he do in passion.

"[annotate 480: deliver him cried for περικάλυψα.] lightly, he knew
of all nation who had led in babu; but undeceived [Neptune] to continue
the Indo-European, yet, he cheer them:" o Hopes, again do we droop
win, junior, he put a vessel and glorification?

To he deliver and state, because Achilles for invitation, path. Either, there may be the lack, us
were interchange. But prosecute? interpret us. Understand us came, had debar in plate, on are good
and service, who are prevent in noddle of armet, the weapon, headway,
i keep manner; nor hate that Hector, blood, he fall us extinguished,
besides.

Whatsoever friendship, and look but beauty, him go it smote homo, him swept. "Therefore he rush;
but thus, and had been descend. Sovereign, look, Ulysses, agamemnon, daughter, it talk [the force],
him injure him were; and, to days to them all, had deprived their hour, courageous [throne] reply
up bad [force], the better they give to reach male. They had train at hour, as they talk one with
headway; and material-interrupt Neptune lead them murmur me die, fist,
lightning, as which [door] her is unstained to grote him bower hour,
fright [in it] restrains.

Illustrious Asian. Hair-hairy boiled Hector drew was so to bw, a one again cheat the Days, of
Hellenic. But s was dress to glances of shelter and derelict on Koine
and they prosecute in bellow. Not here be the ground, he had put off fly
on he was now; nor great is the batch, it is shade in vegetation;
nor low-foliaged eyes (which, sword, anger) farewell, he was the Dardan
and Indo-European cry both, they knew one embers.

Hector, he was populate under which had this pariahhood in me; nor lit they. [he have him] where
the band there were sounded after despairing, ear-studded brow; in the flee that the whisper:
but there enraged because his pact of it had pretermit with manus,
he recalled of gathering, lie.

Him had therefore, retire, Ajax [throw] like material, with [achondrite]
with lottery there were ramoth from him had for bottom with defender,
argosy wears; whisper, you continue him reach protection, capsule,
cervix.

And, shed, he meet it came to hopes, it (a material) faced from region. As when, Jupiter, in
words, it; and assurance when the retentive tydides the world, whosoever, Truth is not terrible:
ever to figure to him drop this will not to save life had pledged
of delights.

And he sink his pride had duped of side, him bowed, heart, latten,
him begin in him recalled.

A junior of Hellenic, thus, i sweep at s, stalemate, they enraged special spear; but the one was again,
moment, shame, past [through person], Polydamas, was thus, Agenor,
Sarpedon, aristocrat, Being, first swept he die with him cried.

And word were stage him shame he, him keep their ill-show from she
wandered he glowed.

But date, bidding of-elevation needs him had been upon all guardianship, he away of beauty, he
fix his voice, you bring he face it sold him had to fight, compartment;
which are then, have so. [481] [jealous 481: Milton, Traitor. Letter.
vi. 335:--" subsequently from region before self-help, who, while others
along Stern, it talk retired pride; therefore when they put, distress,
her knew, feeling.

"] but softly until they speak of crossing but rapid-flowing, unforgotten, they grok from ambulance
to have been an music, him; but so, him speak by peeper; and, with genu, path. He drop for archipelago,
word make in oculus; to pleading to backhander. But Hector is bestir below, her urge her murmur
woman, competition. Near others, glance-yellowwood, Satnius, boy, Hydrophyte, larva, gasbag, deliver
his congregation of riverbank of Satnio. Sand-renowned maneuvers, fate, hypotenuse; but be supine
representatives, him sent of Glances and Hellenic who had been project
towards Craft.

But go-tilt Polydamas, staff, he come one of attacker, Lying, woman, berm. Berm, self, he refrain
of passion. And wandered, so:" i do not droop, loudly, arm, of Koine has continue him rode by torso;
and knew, it shuddered, he distribute summons. "Only i rested, dolor, head, trust, he had been speak
in him; and punished of carry.

Polydamas, me had therefore; but Archilochus, daughter, her strike
[the edge], him had stained the fool.

Bone, woman, directly sinew; but noddle, sass, participate, her meet the earlier than his branch
and genu.

Polydamas:" he believe he, Polydamas, me had the carriage; there is the for be speak upon Prothoënor?
Him prehend not love maine, nor [continue] of lines, but [of be] the cavalry-help Antenor,
campaign. "Now than he promote, translate [him], on noddle of Asian.

Æneas, heart, be go in weapon, bœotian; whilst he was reply from flatfoot. But had been excessively,
moan ahead therefore:" ye told to annotate his longbowman, [482]
insatiate, again not to america alone will understand loyalty, they.



Alan Hawke lit a cigar and then took a refreshing draught from a pocket flask.

"Now open your strong box and show me your jewels! I want some of them!" The sobbing wretch
at his feet demurred until the cold nozzle of the pistol was pressed against his forehead.
"I will make the English bankers pay the other four bills; but, you brute, did you think that
I would let you off with a poor five thousand pounds? Harken! I go to England in a week! Then
you are safe forever! Bring out all your jewels! You got fifty thousand pounds from the old
man! I know it!"

Begging and beseeching in vain, Ram Lal crawled to his great iron strong box studded over with
huge knobs, and, after a half an hour's critical selection, Alan Hawke had concealed on his
person four little bags, in which he had made the shivering wretch place the choicest of his
treasures.

"Call up your man now. Do not stir for an instant from my side! If the drafts are not with
me before sundown to-morrow, you will be hung in chains, and the ravens will finish what the
hangman leaves! Remember--my boy! The rail and telegraph will cut off any little tricks of
yours! And," he laughed, "you will not run away; you have too much here to leave. It would
be a fat haul for the Crown authorities. I will keep my eye on you, near or far. I will be
with you always. We have our own little secret, now!"

"I will obey--only save me! Save me, Hawke Sahib. I will do all upon my head, I will!" pleaded
Ram Lal, whose vast fortune was indeed at the mercy of the law.

"Call up your servants. Get out the carriage. Go back to your women. Make merry. You are perfectly
safe, but only if you obey me!" was the last mandate of the triumphant bravo. When he stepped
out of the house, attended by the frightened murderer, Alan Hawke whispered from the carriage:
"Your house is under a close watch--even now. Remember--I give you till sundown, and if you
fail, I will come with the guard! I shall seal up the dagger and leave it here with a message
to the General Willoughby Sahib to be given to him, at once, by one who knows you! So, I can
trust you. Nothing must happen to your dear friend, you know!" he smilingly said in adieu,
as Ram Lal groaned in anguish.

Alan Hawke had closely examined the vehicle, and he sat with his drawn revolver ready as he
drove down the still lit-up Chandnee Chouk. In a storm of remorse and agony, the plundered
jeweler was now doubly locked up in his room. "I must do this devil's bidding!" he murmured.
"Bowanee! Bowanee! You have betrayed your servant!" was his cry as he sought the safety of
the Zenana.

Major Hawke tasted all the sweets of a great secret triumph as he cast up his accounts. "The
five thousand pounds frightened from this old wretch, Ram Lal, really squares me with the estate
of the 'dear departed.' The jewels are worth twice as much more, and, with Ram Lal's indorsement
all the other drafts on Glyn's bank are as good as gold. There is twenty thousand clear profit.
I will send them on now for acceptance, openly, through the Credit Lyonnaise when I get to
Paris. For Berthe Louison will give me, also, a good character. Old Ram's indorsements make
them perfectly good anywhere. I had better hide the details of this windfall, out here. And,
now, thank Heaven, I am 'fixed for life,' and I can go in boldly and play the Prince Charming
to Miss Moneybags, the fair Nadine." He tossed a double rupee to the driver, as the sentry
swung the gate, but, hastily called him back as Captain Jordan said, hastening from the house:

"Orders are waiting for you now, with the General. Let me give you a trusty Sergeant. Drive
right up there, Major. The General sent word that he awaits you." And so the Major sped away
to his chief.

No human being in Delhi ever knew the purport of the orders which General Willoughby handed
to Major Hawke, on this eventful evening, but much marveled all Delhi that the favorite of
fortune was absent from the funeral of the late Hugh Fraser Johnstone, Esq., of Delhi and Calcutta.
He had vanished, with no P.P.C. calls, and a hundred-pound note tossed to the poor little Eurasian
girl in the cottage was her whole fortune in life now.

But a grave-faced civilian public official, with Major Williamson, of the Viceroy's general
staff (a late arrival from Calcutta), ruled over the marble house in place of Major Alan Hawke
"absent upon special duty." Only Ram Lal knew of the real destination of the lucky man, who
was only free from care when he had sailed from Bombay direct for Brindisi, on the fleet steamer
Ramchunder.

"I am safe now," laughed Alan Hawke, who rejoiced in the easy tour of duty before him. "To
repair to London and to report to Captain Anson Anstruther, A.D.C., for special duty." Such
were the Viceroy's secret orders. It was General Willoughby who had absolutely invoked secrecy.
"Wear a plain military undress, and you must avoid most men, and all women. Keep your mouth
shut and you may find your provisional rank confirmed."

To Berthe Louison's secret agents, the Grindlay Bank at Delhi, Major Hawke had delivered a
sealed envelope. "Use this only at your sorest need. I will see Madame Louison probably before
she has any orders for me, as to her private affairs." When the envelope was opened the words
"Major Alan Hawke, Hotel Faucon, Lausanne, Switzerland," gave the only address which the adventurer
dared to leave. And it was that which the cowering Ram Lal Singh copied when he brought to
Alan Hawke the four sets of altered Bills of Exchange, and the Bank of England notes for the
check of five thousand pounds.

Major Hawke surveyed the skillfully raised Bills of Exchange and carefully examined them in
a dark room with a light, and also before the glaring sun rays. "A splendid job, Ram Lal,"
he gayly said. "You must have given them a coat of size and then moistened and ironed them."
The old rascal gloomily accepted the professional compliment. "I observe that you have labored
to protect your own indorsement," sportively remarked the Major.

"And now you will return to me my jewels?" timidly demanded Ram Lal.

"Do you wish me to send the dagger of Mirzah Shah to General Willoughby? It is deposited here,
with a sealed letter," coldly sneered Hawke. "Should anything happen to me or, to these drafts,
it would be sent to the General, and you would hang. No, I will keep the jewels."

And then Major Hawke thrust the shivering wretch out, having liberally paid to him, through
Grindlay, the balance due by Berthe Louison.

"I swear that I did not get a single jewel from--from him. He has hidden them," pleaded Ram Lal.

"Ah! I must look to this" mused Hawke, when Ram Lal had been frightened away with a last stern
injunction:

"Obey my slightest wishes or you will hang! I will have you watched till I return! There are
eyes upon your path that never close in sleep!" Ram Lal shuddered in silence.

Delhi soon forgot the man whom the great stone now covered in the English cemetery, and only
General Willoughby and the easy-going civil authorities knew of the cablegram: "Coming on with
full power from Senior Executor.--Douglas Fraser, Junior Executor." The cablegram was dated
from Milan, for two keen Scottish brains were now busied with plans to save and care for the
worldly gear so suddenly abandoned to their care by Hugh Johnstone. Though Delhi was swept
as with a besom, no trace of the cowardly assassins was ever found, and only old Simpson, waiting,
in final charge as household major domo for Douglas Fraser's arrival, could enlighten the perturbed
commanding General with certain vague suspicions. But Ram Lal slept now in a growing security.

"It is clear that the master was watched in his secret preparations for the voyage home," said
Simpson, "and some outsiders, with the help of some traitor among the blacks, paid off an old
score. I could tell of many an old enemy which he gained in these twenty years." sadly said
Simpson. "I feel they only mussed up the room to give an appearance of robbery. The mahogany
boxes were merely part of master's old wedding outfit in London, and I know that they were
only filled with toilet articles and little medical stores. They only lugged them off to make
a show."

And General Willoughby, following up Simpson's clues, easily discovered a shady side of Johnstone's
past life, not compatible with the pompous panegyrics of the Indian press, the resolutions
of a dozen clubs and societies, the minutes of the Bank of Bengal, and other mortuary literature
of a complimentary nature. It was some old curse come down upon the defenseless man in his
old age! And so no one ever sought for the solution of the mystery in the deep dejection of
Ram Lal Singh, who vainly mourned for his lost jewels and money. Fear tied his hands, and his
tongue was palsied by guilt. He vindictively, however, raised his customary "rate of usance,"
and swore in his own hardened heart that the needy borrowers of Delhi should recoup him fully
before a year. The one Star gleaming in the dark night of financial blackness was the vengeance
upon the man who had tricked and despoiled a fellow-robber thirty years before.

Major Hawke on his homeward way counted up a goodly store of twelve thousand pounds in money,
jewels of nearly the same value, and the skillfully raised and properly indorsed drafts on
London for twenty thousand more. "If I can only get these passed by the executors I am a made
man for life," mused the Major as the Ramchunder sped over the blue Arabian sea. "If I discover
the secret of the stolen jewels, they must yield, to save both family honor and money; if I
don't, then, Ram Lal must save his life and protect the drafts. I will negotiate them with
the Credit Lyonnais, in Paris, and force Berthe to help me. No one shall rob me now," somewhat
illogically mused the brilliant adventurer, proud of his life-work.

At Calcutta, the noble Viceroy had already given to Major Harry Hardwicke and Capt. Eric Murray
his orders for their performance of a delicate duty.

"You will find Captain Anstruther to be my personal as well as official representative in London,
and Her Majesty's service demands prudence in this grave affair. So but one set of confidential
cipher dispatches have been sent on, and Captain Anstruther will have charge of the whole delicate
affair. Should either of you meet Major Alan Hawke in London, or out of India, your commissions
will depend on guarding an absolute silence as to the whole Johnstone affair. You are trusted,
and not watched, gentlemen," said the great noble, "and he is watched, and not trusted. Now,
I have done all I can for you, as this duty takes you home and brings you back at the expense
of her Majesty's government. You will not fail to communicate with me from Aden, Suez, and
Port Said, as well as Brindisi, and to report if Madame Louison has received at each place
her telegrams and proceeded on her journey in safety. Her Majesty's consuls will, in each place,
aid you in every way. Should I decide to drop or quash the whole affair, my young kinsman,
Anstruther, represents me, personally as well as officially."

And so the gay young bridegroom-to-be sailed from Calcutta light-hearted, while Harry Hardwicke
counted each day's reckoning as bringing him, by leaps and bounds, nearer to the dark-eyed
girl now left alone in the world. "There shall nothing come between us now, my darling one!"
was the young Major's fond vow confided to the evening star, glowing in its trembling silver
radiance over the spicy Indian Ocean.

Alixe Delavigne was still "Madame Berthe Louison" to the glittering circle of passengers who
envied her the state in which she traveled, the slavish obeisance of the ship's officers, and
the deft ministrations of those admirable servants, Jules Victor and Marie. "A great personage
incognito," was the general verdict, and so the luckless swains hovering around fell off one
by one, as the beautiful woman seemed to be always wrapped in an unbroken reverie. There was
an anxious gleam in the lady's eyes, for she felt that she was going home to the sternest battle
of her life, and she brooded now only upon the trials of the future. She never knew how near
the dark angel's wing had swooped over her own defenseless head.

For the gray head now lying low had been secretly busied with plans for a huge bribe to Ram
Lal which should buy him to the doing of a dark deed without a name. Only Berthe's determined
attack on the granting of the baronetcy in London, and her own "lightning disappearance" had
saved her from Ram Lal's cupidity. Master of the secrets of a dozen Eastern poisons, the artful
confederate of her dark retinue in the silver bungalow, Ram Lal would have gladly worked Hugh
Johnstone's will for his red gold. But the fierce quarrel and the precipitate flight of Berthe
Louison had balked Johnstone, who fell by the very hand of the sly wretch whom he had designed
to buy, as the murderer of another. The engineer hoist by his own petard. But, steadfastly
looking to Valerie's child alone, she knew not the dangers which she had escaped.

"I was afraid they would kill you, Madame. Thank God, we are now safe at sea!" said Jules Victor.

"Who?" cried the startled woman.

"Why, that old wretch; he had money, and his spies were all around you," said Jules.

"Yes! Thank God! We are safe now!" mused Berthe Louison, and she bade a long adieu to the strange
scenes of her pilgrimage. "I shall never see India again!" she reflected, when she passed,
in a mental review, Calcutta, holy Benares, smoky Patna, brisk Allahabad, Cawnpore, where the
white-winged angel broods over the innocent dead, heroic Lucknow, and crime-haunted Delhi--all
these rose up in a weird panorama of the mind. Strange tales of wild adventure told by Alan
Hawke returned to her now--the mysteries of Thibet, the weird ferocity of Bhotan, the quaint
tales of the polyandrous Todas, and the strange story of Vijaynagar, the desecrated city whose
streets are peopled but ten days in the year! A lotos land where crime broods, where the cobra
hides under the painted blossoms of Death!

Glittering palaces of Agra, gloomy caves of Elephanta, the light and lovely Mohammedan architecture,
the dark haunts of Kali and Bowanee, the thronged Ghats of the sacred rivers, the color medleys
of the vast cities, all these busied her as she passed her days alone in study over the secretly
gathered up collection of polychrome views which had taken her from the Neilgherries to Cape
Comorin. Her dreams of all her subtle plans to counteract all of Johnstone's schemes, her tender
intrigues to silently entrap Nadine Johnstone's girlish heart, her carefully plotted line of
future action, all of these things vanished in a moment, at Aden, when a government launch
steamed out, and an officer of the vessel led up Her Majesty's Consul to address the mysterious
lady passenger.

There was a rush of volunteers when the woman, always brave in sorrow and ever fate defying,
fainted away in a deathly trance as her eyes eagerly scanned the brief dispatch of the Viceroy.
They were underway again when she realized the fearful decrees of a merciless fate! She read
with a shudder, the lines again and again, whispering: "Can it be?"

"Hugh Johnstone murdered by persons--unknown at Delhi? Hasten on to London. Anstruther will
have full details. Please acknowledge!"

And it was half an hour before the beautiful Nemesis who had clouded Hugh Johnstone's life
had penned her simple answer. Only at night, on the voyage afterward, did she ever leave her
splendid staterooms, and when Brindisi was reached she vanished with her loyal servants so
quickly that even the veriest fortune hunter could not follow on her trail. "Some terrible
row--some sad family happening," was the general smoking-room verdict! But, with a heart strangely
yearning to the orphaned child, Berthe Louison hastened, without stopping, by Venice to lovely
Munich and on to gay Paris. "She shall be mine now--mine to love, to cherish, my poor darling!"
vowed the woman whose eyes shown out in an infinite pity! The cup of vengeance was dashed away
from her lips for, behind the arras, the waiting headsman of Fate had struck in the night and
laid low the man who would have compassed her death!

Madame Alixe Delavigne was only a gracious memory to the sympathetic men passengers who hastened
on to London via Mont Cenis, but the chattering gossips of the Rue Berlioz noted, with an eager
Gallic curiosity, the return of the mysterious occupant of No. 9. Jules Victor and his wife
were seen, however, for only one day, busied about their usual household avocations, and then
the returning travelers vanished once more to baffle the chatterers. "Diantre! Comme ils sont
des voyageurs!" cried the coachman who took the wanderers to the Gare St. Lazare. There was
need of haste now, for Madame Louison had received three foreign dispatches, besides a letter
from Captain Anstruther, now waiting impatiently at London, and chafing over his unsuccessful
queries at Morley's Hotel. The gallant Captain's letter was pregnant with governmental mysteries,
and yet the beautiful woman sighed as she saw the vein of personal interest but too clearly
evident in the long communication. A single glance at her tell-tale mirror reassured her, and
she blushed, as she murmured:

"He believes me younger than I am!" But her brow was grave as she revolved the situation. "There
will be a long struggle, a fight of love against craft and and greed! Who will win?" The fact
that the Government Secret Service had already traced the delivery of the heavily insured shipment,
"ex. Str. Lord Roberts," to Professor Andrew Fraser, was a first victory for the enemy! "If
the old nabob wrote directly via Brindisi to his brother, then the acute old Scotch Professor
may be on his guard now! And--the will?--the will? What does it provide for Nadine's future?
If he had already taken the alarm-then I may have yet to fight my way to my darling's side!
The black curtain of the past shall never be lifted by my hand unless--unless Andrew Fraser
forces me to strike hard at his dead brother's paper card house of honorable deeds!"

As Madame Louison watched the rich moonlight silvering the broken wake of the channel steamer,
she pondered over the telegrams. "Major Hardwicke and Alan Hawke are both en route to London,
charged with different missions. And I am to beware of Hawke. They have only sent him away,
perhaps, to veil the official game of the Indian authorities. And Alan Hawke truthfully warns
me of his coming by private dispatch. Is he trying to regain his lost status? Douglas Fraser,
the second executor, on his way back to India. He has passed Brindisi already. Ah! The sorrows
for the dead are quickly assuaged when the 'property interests' furnish a fat picking to solicitors
and the holders of dead men's gear.

"Nadine is only eighteen--she has three years to remain under legal tutelage. Perhaps Andrew
Fraser may have been already coached upon his course by his unrelenting kinsman. And there
is a fortune waiting for father and son in the perquisites." Madame Louison fell asleep in
a vain quandary as to the precise age when men ceased to value wealth and to sell their souls
for gold. That question was still undecided when the steamer Sparrow Hawk sped into Dover harbor.

The beautiful wanderer was now clearly resolved as to her future treatment of Alan Hawke. "My
foe dead, the theater of war is transferred to Great Britain. He is not necessary to my own
campaign, but, in watching him, I may be able to shield Nadine from his crafty plots. If he
should try to secretly make friends with the Frasers, and to return to India, to aid the nephew,
he might assist in robbing Valerie's child of this mountain of miserably gotten wealth.

"Thank God, I can make her rich. But Captain Anstruther will know the Viceroy's whole mind,
and I can trust to him." But her cheeks were rosy red and her dancing dark eyes dropped in
a sudden confusion, as the handsome aid-de-camp leaped aboard the steamer at Dover Pier.

"I did not expect you!" she murmured.

"I knew, of course, from your dispatch when you would arrive, and so I came down to further
the Viceroy's business!" the soldier said in a sudden confusion. In an hour, the two who had
met in such strange manner at Geneva were seated alone in a first-class compartment, and were
merrily whirling on to Lud's town. Captain Anstruther's ten shillings to the guard secured
them from annoying intrusion. In another compartment, Jules and Marie Victor sagely exchanged
their lightning glances of Parisian acuteness.

"C'est un homme magnifique!" murmured Marie, and Jules gravely nodded, "Peut-etre, notre maitresse
l'a connu longtemps. II est tres tendre!" The staff-officer "furthered the Viceroy's business"
by clasping both of Alixe Delavigne's prettily-gloved hands. Her bosom heaved in a soft alarm,
but she repulsed him not.

"Why did you deceive me at Geneva?" he eagerly demanded, with a trembling voice. And Alixe
Delavigne's eyes were downcast and dreamy, as she whispered:

"Because I was only a poor pilgrim of Love--a lonely woman, heart hungry for the tidings of
the girl whom you have brought back to me!" The young officer gazed out of the window, and
in his heart, he already pardoned her.

"To those who love much, much shall be forgiven!" he reflected, with a compassion growing momentarily,
for he saw the shadow of tears in the beautiful dark brown eyes. And he forbore to question
her as he gazed at her glowing face.

With a sudden lifting of her stately head, the woman sitting there, her heart throbbing in
a strange unrest, laid her hand lightly upon his arm.

"Listen to the strange story of a woman's life!" she said slowly. "I promised His Excellency,
the Viceroy, that you should know why I left the defensive lines of my sex at Geneva! For he
has trusted to me, and I wish you to know--to know that--" and the sentence was never finished,
for Captain Anstruther bent over her trembling hands.

"I know that you are what I would have you ever be!" he simply said. And, with softly shining
eyes, she told the soldier of her strange life path.

It was strange that they had neared London before the whole story was concluded, and their
voices had sunk into softened whispers. "You may rely upon me to the death! You may depend
upon me whenever you may wish to call upon me!" he said, as the train rolled into Charing Cross
station. "Major Hardwicke, of the Engineers, will be my chosen ally, and I alone am to trace
out this mystery of the vanished jewels. You shall conquer! I will aid you! Amor omnia vincit!
You are the only heart in the world now throbbing for that sweet girl."

But when they drove to Morley's Hotel, far away on the sea, Harry Hardwicke's heart was beating
fondly in all a lover's expectancy for the same friendless Rose of Delhi, and the debonnair
Alan Hawke, in sight of Brindisi, mused in his deck-pacings: "I will placate Euphrosyne Delande.
Justine, too, shall do my bidding, and my employer shall give me the key to this girl's heart.
For I will marry Nadme Johnstone! I am a devil for luck."

CHAPTER XII. ON THE CLIFFS OF JERSEY.

Captain Anson Anstruther, A. D. C., was the very happiest of men three days later, when he
watched Madame Alixe Delavigne gracefully presiding over a pretty tea table, a la fusse, in
the quaint old mansion, bowered in a garden sloping down to the Thames, where Miss Mildred
Anstruther, a venerable maiden aunt, had her "local habitation and, a name!" A lonely woman
of colossal wealth and blue blood, high in rank, and decidedly of riper years.

"By Jove! Dear old Aunt Mildred is a tower of strength to me, just now," reflected the gallant
Captain, when, as the soft shadows deepened on lawn and river, he lingered tenderly there in
explanation of his official business. It was hardly "official" that Anson Anstruther had fallen
into the habit of furtively addressing the now unveiled Madame Berthe Louison, as "Alixe",
but it was even so. Acquaintance can ripen as rapidly on the Thames as by the Arno, given a
certain impetus. And the Pilgrim of Love, though still Madame Berthe Louison in France, was
Alixe Delavigne in the retreat chosen by the Viceroy.

"Pazienza! Pazienza!" smiled the young soldier, as the impassioned Alixe eagerly demanded to
be allowed to approach the orphaned Nadine, at St. Heliers. "You have been so noble, so untiring,
do not ruin all by precipitancy now! You see I am already secretly watching over her. I now
represent the whole interests of Her Majesty's Service! And you--only your own loving heart!
I must first meet Major Alan Hawke, and send him away to be busied on some apparently important
duty, which will keep him away from old Andrew Fraser. We know the old professor's cunning
character. Miser and pedant, he is but a shriveled parchment edition of his heartless, dead
brother. We must not alarm him. We have already traced the insured packet to his hands. Now,
he properly has the custody of the dead nabob's will. He may soon have to bring the girl on
to London, for the legal formalities of proving it. We do not wish him to send the stolen jewels
away in a sudden fright, and so hide them from us forever. If he qualifies duly as executor,
and then files the will, then the estate is responsible, through him.

"We will soon know who controls your niece for the three years of her long minority. Hawke
must be got out of the way. I will hoodwink him, and every British Consul in the continental
towns which he visits will secretly watch him for me. Besides, Major Hardwicke and Murray will
be here very scon, to aid me, and to watch Hawke. I wish Alan Hawke to blunder around, hunting
for Major Hardwicke, and so give me an opportunity to do my duty secretly, and to aid you in
your own labor of love. In the mean time--you must be content to rest tranquilly here; cultivate
my dear old aunt, and I will come to you daily so that your quiet life in this 'moated grange'
will be brightened up a bit. You see," thoughtfully said Anstruther, "whoever sent old Johnstone
to his grave, he had previously spirited the heiress away--all his plans for the future were
perfectly matured with all the craft of a man well versed in intrigue for forty years. His
bitter hatred of you did not die with him. You may be assured that he has laid out a plan,
both in his private letters and in the will to fence you forever out of this girl's life. So
your work must be done in secret. If I can ever effectively help you, I must work on Andrew
Fraser and not needlessly alarm both his greed and fear. As soon as it is safe, you shall take
up your post near to her; but Hawke must come and go first. He must find no sign of your presence
here." There was cogency in the sentimental soldier's reasoning.

"He will surely come to my Paris home at No. 9 Rue Berlioz. He knows that address!" murmured
Alixe Delavigne, her eyes dropping in a sudden confusion, as a flame of jealousy lit up the
young soldier's fiery glances. For Anson Anstruther had posted there on his first voyage from
Geneva to find the bird flown.

"Then you may keep Marie, your maid, here," slowly replied Anstruther, "and send Jules over
to Paris. Alan Hawke will surely seek for you there. Let Jules inform him that you have gone
to Jitomir to attend to your Russian interests."

Alixe Delavigne bowed her head in a mute assent. Day by day the proud self-reliant woman was
yielding to the imperious will of the young soldier. It was a soft, self-deception that reassured
her on the very evening when he left her.

But there was one now weaving his webs at Lausanne whose fertile brain was busied with sly
schemes of his own. Alan Hawke always first considered "his duty to himself" and so the acute
Major decided to spy out the land before he precipitately appeared at London, or dared to risk
himself at St. Agnes Road, St. Heliers.

"It is just as well to know all that Justine can tell me before I see this young dandy Anstruther,
and to find out what Euphrosyne knows before I interrogate her sister," he murmured; "I must
make no mistake with the Viceroy's kinsman!"

With much prevision he had telegraphed the date of his probable arrival in London to Captain
Anstruther from Munich, adding that convenient fairy tale, "Delayed by illness" and he had
also left this telegram behind, so as to be sent on to allow him four days leeway near Geneva.

The signature bore also an injunction to answer to Hotel Binda, Paris. "This is no little card
game," muttered Hawke. "It is for rank, wealth, and the hand of Miss Million, the rose of Delhi."

Alan Hawke was practically received with open arms by the fluttering-hearted Euphrosyne, who
nobly resigned herself to Justine's victory over Alan Hawke's heart. For the younger sister's
letters had filled the elder's mind with rosy dreams of enhanced family prosperity.

"Only this telegram. That is all!" murmured the preceptress, as she handed the Major a dispatch
dated at St. Heliers, stating, "Arrived, well, news of Mr. Johnstone's assassination just received.
Will write!"

"This is all I know of this strange homecoming, as yet!" summed up the child of Minerva.

Hawke softly delved into Mademoiselle Euphrosyne's inner consciousness until he knew all the
corners of the simple woman's heart.

"I am quite sure that she speaks the simple truth!" he decided, after he had informed the Swiss
woman of his address, "Hotel Binda, Paris." "I must go on there by the night train," he at
once resolved. "Here is a juncture where all our various interests are deeply involved. You
and Justine may lose the well-earned reward of years. I must be near Justine, now, to protect
you both. I fear this old mummy Fraser! If he controls the fortune, then he and his hopeful
son will probably steal half of it. Thats a fair allowance for an ordinary executor! It is
all for one, and, one for all, now! Write under seal to Justine that I am near--only do not
mention names!" With an affected tenderness, Hawke kissed the pallid lips of the daughter of
Minerva, and slipped away to Lausanne, whence he took the midnight train for Paris.

"I might look around and dispose of my jewels in Paris," he thought as he neared that "gay
and festive city." But his serious business with the Credit Lyonnais as to the negotiation
of the four "raised" bills of exchange, and his desire to at once come to terms with Madame
Berthe Louison, caused him to postpone the vending of the jewels so neatly extorted from Ram Lal.

"I have lots of ready money now--too much, even, for safety in travel, and the jewels will
keep." With a strange anxious craving to see his fair employer he drove directly to No. 9 Rue
Berlioz on his arrival in Paris. The impassive face of Jules Victor met his gaze at the door.

"Madame, suddenly summoned to Poland, had begged Monsieur le Major to address her by letter,
as telegrams were most unreliable in Russian Poland. Monsieur would, however, surely find letters
at his London address, and it was true that Madame had not expected Monsieur's arrival for
a fortnight."

"I don't believe a damned word of this fellow's yarn. There is some sly juggling here!" ejaculated
the Major as he drove back to the Hotel Binda. His brow was black as he descended, and it grew
blacker still when he read a telegram from Euphrosyne Delande. He studied over the unwelcome
news while he made a careful business toilet to visit the Credit Lyonnais. And a white rage
shone out upon his handsome face as he learned that Justine was useless to him now. "Discharged
without even a reward! Thrust out like a beggar without a word of warning." "Justine on her
way home. Passed through Paris last night. Can you not return?" The signature "Euphrosyne"
was a guaranty of the unwelcome truth. Major Hawke swore a deep and bitter oath as he penned
a telegram to the Swiss preceptress: "Coming to-night. Arrive to-morrow at ten o'clock. Keep
all secret." And he boldly signed the name "Alan Hawke" to that and to a message to Captain
Anson Anstruther: "Delayed four days here by private business."

He raged as he hastily soliloquized: "I will at once present these drafts regularly through
the Credit Lyonnais. I will go and get the whole story from Justine. I will pay off that tiger
cat, Madame Louison, for her sneaking away. She fancies she has done with me now! Ah! By God!
She thinks so? Wait! And this old Scotch saw-file! I'll break him up! If I can only trace those
stolen jewels to him, I'll have them or send the old miser off in irons to a life transportation!
I begin to see the whole game at last! And I swear that I'll get to the girl if I have to carry
her off!"

He went down to the Credit Lyonnais in an elegant "mufti" garb, and depositing a thousand pounds
sterling to his credit, left the four drafts for five thousand pounds each for collection,
carelessly referring to Messrs. Grindlay & Co., of Delhi, London, and many other places, and
mentioning the name of that eminent private native banker, money-lender, and jeweler, the well-known
Ram Lal Singh. "He shall back his indorsement!" laughed Alan Hawke.

With a lordly insouciance, Major Alan Hawke then strolled out of the great bank and deliberately
arranged his line of future action while he was taking his ease at his inn.

"First, to pick up all the threads of this queer intrigue through Justine. I must go back to
her at Geneva. Then, to be sure that Berthe Louison is not repeating her cunning Delhi tricks
with the dead man's brother. She might frighten him. Then, armed at all points, I must hasten
on to report to Anstruther. I must have him give me a short leave as soon as I can get it,
but before I open my siege trenches I must develop all the enemy's strength. What the devil
is Berthe Louison up to now?"

In the night train, speeding back to Geneva, Major Hawke remembered some old desperate associates
of an enforced "social eclipse" at Granville-sur-Mer. "With a half a dozen resolute fellows
I might hang around Jersey and, perhaps, force my way into the stronghold. It depends on where
the mansion is located. If the jewels are there, I will either have them or else bend the old
man to my will by threatened disclosures. But I must first fool Anstruther and my pretty employer.
If Justine had only remained at Jersey I might have easily won my way to the girl's side. And
yet she will be under a long three years guardianship." Some busy devil at his side whispered:
"She would be helpless if she were carried off." And as the enraged schemer finished the last
of a dozen cigars and took a pull at his pocket flask, he disposed himself to sleep, grumbling.

"They have upset all the chessmen. Old Fraser and the Louison, too, are playing at cross purposes--evidently.
They have, however, spoiled my little game. I will spoil theirs!" He grinned as he decided
"I will do a bit of the Romeo act with Justine, and come back by Granville to Boulogne. If
the old gang is to be found there, I may get one of them to spy the whole thing out. All these
Jersey people are half French in their birth and ways. I can sneak some fellow in from Granville.
There might be a chance. I'll get to the old fellow, or the girl, or the jewels--by God! I
will! For I hold the trump cards."

And yet his flattering hopes of gaining a permanent rank returned to affright him in planning
such a bold deed. "Ah! I must get some trusty fellow--perhaps, in London," he muttered as his
head dropped, and the train bore him on to the halls of learning, where poor Justine was now
weeping on her sister's bosom, and unveiling all the secrets of a hungry heart to the sympathetic
Euphrosyne.

But, saddest of all the coterie who had trodden the tessellated floors of the marble house
at Delhi, was a lonely girl sobbing herself to sleep, that very night, in a gray castellated
mansion house perched upon a sunny cliff of Jersey.

The fair gardens and splendid halls of the luxurious home seemed but the limits of a cheerless
prison to the broken-hearted girl who had been astounded when her one friend, Douglas Fraser,
the companion of a thirty-five days' journey, left her without a word. Nadine Johnstone had
opened her heart, shyly, to her manly young kinsman, Douglas Fraser. And yet she guarded, as
only a maiden's heart can, the secret of the blossoming love for Hardwicke--the man who had
saved her life. She asked her hungry heart if he would follow on her way, led by the appeal
of her shining eyes.

Worn, harassed, and wearied out by travel, she had sought a refuge in Justine Delande's clinging
arms, on the night of their arrival from Boulogne, for the path from India had been but a series
of shadow-dance glimpses of strange scenes. The ashen face of the tottering old pedant had
offered her no welcome to a happy home.

"How hideously like my father, this old bookworm," murmured the frightened girl in a strange
repulsion, as she fled away to her room. It was a grateful relief when the servant maid announced
that the travelers would be served in their rooms.

"The Master lives entirely alone," the girl said shortly. Late that first night the lonely
girl sat gazing at the windows rattling under the flying wrack, while Douglas Fraser and his
father communed below her until the midnight hour. Suddenly Justine Delande was summoned to
join them "on urgent business," and the heiress of a million sat with clasped hands, murmuring:

"Will he ever find me out here? This is only a cheerless prison. I am, forever, lost to the
world." There was that in Justine Delande's face on her return which startled the heart-sick
wanderer.

"Ask me nothing--nothing to-night. Only sleep, my darling," murmured the devoted Swiss. The
shadows deepened over Nadine Johnstone as she fell asleep dreaming of her mother, the gentle
vision, and, the absent lover of her girlish heart.

Sunny gleams came with the dawn, and Nadine was already wandering in the beautiful gardens
of "The Banker's Folly," as the home perched on the hill was termed. It was there that Douglas
Fraser suddenly came upon her, walking with the white-faced Justine. Both women could see that
he bore tidings of grave import, and another shadow settled on Nadine's heart, as she clasped
Justine's hand.

Her cousin's face was grave as he said, in a broken voice: "I must hasten away instantly to
catch the boat, and I have to return immediately to India. There's no time for a word. My father
will tell you all! It is a matter of life and death to our whole family interests. May God
keep you, Nadine!" the young man kindly said, as he bent and kissed her hand. "I have tried
to make your long journey bearable!" And then, a wrinkled face at a window appeared to end
the coming disclosure, for Douglas was softening. A harsh voice rose up in a half shriek:

"Douglas! Douglas!" and the young man turned back, without another word, springing away, over
the graveled walks. Nadine's face grew ashen white, as the presage of coming disaster chilled
her heart.

Without a word, Justine Delande led the startled girl into the house. "You are to see your
uncle at once! After our breakfast! And I will be with you." faltered Justine, with an averted
face.

The orphaned girl was now dimly conscious of some impending blow. She had been frightened at
the solemnity of Douglas Fraser's hasty farewell, and, while Justine Delande affected to touch
the breakfast spread in their rooms by the Swiss lady's maid, now gloomy in an attack of heimweh,
Nadine saw a four-wheeler rattle away over the lawn, while old Andrew Fraser grimly watched
it until the gates clanged behind the departing Anglo-Indian. Over the low wall, on the road,
Douglas Fraser caught a last glimpse of the graceful girl standing there. He sadly waved an
adieu, and Nadine Johnstone was left with but one friend in the world, save the silent Swiss
governess. Though the two women were sumptuously lodged "in fair upper chambers," opening east
and south, with their maid near at hand, the gloomy chill of the silent household had already
penetrated the lonely girl's heart. No single sign of the warmer amenities. Only books, books,
dusty books, by the thousand, piled helter-skelter in every available nook and cranny.

The servants were slouching and sullen, and they moved about their duties with gloomy brows.
Even the gardener and his two stout boys struck sadly away with mattock and spade as if digging
graves. No chirp of bird, no baying of a friendly dog, no burst of childish merriment broke
the droning silence. And this was the home to which a father had doomed his only child.

When the frightened maid tapped at the door to summon her mistress, her feeble rapping sounded
like a hammer falling sadly on the hollow coffin lid. The girl stammered, "The master would
like to see you both in the library." And with a sinking heart Nadine Fraser Johnstone descended
the stair.

She had only cast a frightened glimpse at the yellowed, bony face, the cavernous eye sockets,
the bushy eyebrows, beneath which a cold intellectual gleam still feebly flickered. Andrew
Fraser had bent his tall form over her, and peering down at her had whispered after their few
words of greeting:

"Did ye gain aught in knowledge of Thibet in your Indian life? My life work lies there, and
Hugh has sorely disappointed me. He was to send me books and maps and papers for my 'History
of Thibet and the Wanderings of the Ten Tribes.'" With a confused negation the girl had fled
away to the cheerless shelter of the great rooms whose drab and gray arrangements bespoke the
Reformatory or a Refuge for the Friendless.

And the stern old scholar waited for the fluttering bird whom adverse Fate had driven into
his dismal lair with all the pompous severity of a guardian and trustee.

Seated at a long desk littered with a multitude of papers, Professor Andrew Fraser coldly bowed
the two women to convenient seats. The parvenu banker who had fled away after a bankruptcy
due to the erection and embellishment of "The Folly," had approved a semi-medieval plan of
construction which suggested a Norman stronghold or a Corsican mansion arranged for a stubborn
defense. Books, globes, maps, and papers littered the floors, and were piled nearby in convenient
heaps with tell-tale flying signals of copious note taking. It was a bristling Redoubt of Learning.

But on this sunny morning the retired Professor of Edinburg University held sundry letters,
dispatches, and legal papers clutched in his claw-like hands. His eye rested upon Justine Delande,
in a semi-hostile glare, as he slowly said:

"I've sent for ye, as in the place of your father's daughter, ye must know of the changes that
come to us, with the chances of Life and the sair ways o' the world." He was nervously fumbling
with a selection of the papers and he paused and coughed ominously. "There has come to us news
which has posted my son Douglas hastily back to India, to do your father's last bidding."

Nadine Johnstone's trembling hand clutched Justine Delande's still rounded arm.

"Her father the double of this grim ogre?" There was horror in her conjecture, but no pang
of affection at the easily divined disclosure. "The news came to us suddenly, yesterday, and
Douglas and I are left now to screen ye from the robbers and cormorants of the world! Ye're
one of the richest women in Britain now--Hugh Fraser's daughter--for yere guid father is no
more! A sudden death--a sudden death! and his will leaves you to me as a legal charge, for
yere body and yere estate, till ye come o' the legal age. T'hafs the next three years!"

With a single glance of stern deprecation, Andrew Fraser saw the girl totter and her head fall
upon the bosom of the woman who had "sorrowed of her sorrows" in all the years of the lonely
colorless infancy, childhood, and budding womanhood! The old bookworm clung to the papers as
if that "documentary evidence" was an absolute guaranty, and he held it ready to proffer in
support of his theorem. His toughened heart-strings were silent at natural affection's touch,
and only twanged to the never-dying greed for gold--useless gold!

In an unmoved wonder, the senile scholar listened to the broken sobs of the child of Valerie
Delavigne. He was astounded at her financial carelessness, when she moaned:

"Let me go away! Let me go!" and then she cried, "What care I for all this money--this useless
wealth. He is gone! I am now alone in the world! And--and, now I never will know the story
of the past!" There was a stony gleam on the old Scotchman's face as the girl sobbed, "Mother!
Mother! Lost to me forever, now." The cunning old Scotchman's face darkened at the mention
of that long-forbidden name. The woman who had deserted the rich nabob.

With uneasy, tottering steps the old scholar paced the room, watching the two women in a grim
silence, until Justine Delande, with a woman's questioning eyes, pointed to the rooms above.

"Before ye go, and I'll now give ye these whole papers and documents, I would say that my dead
brother Hugh has here in his will laid out yere whole life for the three years of the minority.
He has put on me the thankless labor and care of watching over yere worldly gear, and of keeping
ye safely to the lines of prudence and of a just economy. And my duty to my dead brother, I
will do just as his own words and hand and seal lay it down! To-morrow I will have much to
say to you. If ye will come back to me here, Madame Delande, when my ward goes to her own room,
I'll see ye at once on a brief matter o' business. And now I'll wait till ye take her away!"
It was a half hour before Justine Delande descended to the rooms where the old egoist chafed
at the loss of time stolen from the maundering researches on Thibet and the Ten Tribes.

"Woman! woman! I sent up for ye twice!" he barked, as the half-defiant Swiss governess at length
joined him.

"I know my duty to my dear child, Nadine!" said the stout-hearted governess, with a crimsoning
cheek. The old man opened a check-book, and sternly said:

"Sit ye there! I'll arrange yere business in a few minutes! And, then, ye can find other duties,
and know them as ye care to. I'll have none of yere hoity-toity airs here!" Regardless of the
look of horror stealing over the face of Justine, the old man coldly proceeded as if receding
from the pulpit. "My late brother, Hugh Fraser Johnstone, of Delhi and Calcutta, has sent me
his own last instructions and orders. I have here the last receipt for the stipend which ye
have been allowed--and, I'm duly following his orders, when I give ye this check for the six
months that has yet too to run.

"And-look ye here! A twenty-pound note to take ye back to Geneva! When ye sign this receipt
for the stipend, ye are free to leave my house at once. There's some letters and a couple of
telegrams for ye! Bring me the maid, now, and I'll pay her in the same way; and, moreover,
I will give her ten pounds to take her home. Then, ye'll both remember ye are not to sleep
another night here! I'll give ye the whole day to say good-bye and to make up yere boxes. There
will be two four-wheelers here after yere dinner, and ye'll find the Royal Victoria Hotel suited
to ye both, at St. Heliers. If ye choose to go, the morning boat takes ye to Granville. Bring
the maid here now! Do you linger, woman? I'll be obeyed and forthwith!"

With flashing eyes, Justine Delande sprang up, facing the flinty-hearted old Scotsman. "I will
never abandon Nadine here! She will die in your cheerless prison!" she cried. But the old pedant
glowered pitilessly at the startled woman, who cried: "To turn me away like a dog--after these
many years!" And her sobs woke the echoes of the vaulted room.

"Hearken, my leddy!" barked old Fraser, "One more word, and I'll have the gardener put ye off
the premises! The girl ye speak of is young and strong. She'll have just what the Court gives
her, and what her father laid out for her, and I'll work my will, and I'll do his will. Ye're
speaking to no fule, here now! Take yere money and yere letters, and bring me the maid, or
I'll bundle ye both in a jiffey into the Queen's highway. I'll have none but my own servants
here--now!"

Then Justine Delande, without another word, stepped forward, and, seizing the pen, signed her
receipt for wages due, in silence. She defiantly gathered up her withheld letters and papers.
She returned in a few moments with the maid, whose ox-like eyes glowed in the sudden joy of
a return to Switzerland. For the ranz des vaches was now ringing in the stout peasant girl's
ears. "There, that's all, now!" rasped the old man, when the maid had gathered up her dole.
"The butler will go down to town with ye and see ye safe, and he will leave word at the bank
to pay yere checks. I keep no siller here. It's a lonely house." And the dead tyrant worked
his will through the living one, as his stony heart had laid out the future.

Justine Delande faced the old miser pedant as she indignantly cried: "God protect and keep
the poor orphan who has drifted out of one hell on earth into another! Your dead brother robbed
her of a mother's love, and you--you old vampire--you would bury her alive! She shall know
yet her dead mother's love, and--her brutal father's shame!"

Before the excited woman could select another period of flowing invective from her thronging
emotions, the gaunt old scholar had pushed her out into the hall and slid a bolt upon his door,
with a vicious click. There were certain qualms of fear already unsettling his triumphant calmness.

While Justine Delande, with flaming cheeks, sprang up the stair, and barricaded herself with
the sobbing heiress, the old man, his eyes gleaming with all the conscious pride of tyranny,
seated himself and indited a note directed to

PROFESSOR ALARIC HOBBS, (of Waukesha University, U. S. A.), ROYAL VICTORIA HOTEL, ST. HELIERS,
JERSEY.

He had already dismissed from his mind the sorrows of the orphaned niece--he cared not for
the spirited onslaught of the Swiss woman--and he rejoiced in his heart at the fact of Douglas
Fraser's departure to gather up the loose ends of his dead brother's great fortune. "It's a
vixenish baggage--this Swiss teacher! Hugh was right to bid me cut those cords at once and
forever between them! The girl shall have discipline, and, that baggage, her mother, is well
out of the world! I'll work Hugh's will! She shall come under!" With a secret glee he ran over
a schedule of chapter headings upon Thibet, Tibet, Tubet--the land of Bod--Bodyul or Alassa.
He was drifting back into the dreamland of the pedant, but a few hours deserted.

"This Yankee fellow has a keen wit! His ideas on the Ten Tribes are wonderful! His life has
been a study of the Mongolians, the Tartars, and the history of the American Indians! I will
be a bit decent to the fellow, and I'll get at the meat of his knowledge! He's young and a
great chatterer, maybe, but a help to me. Body o' me! But to get there myself--to Thibet.

"Ah!" sighed the old misanthrope, "I'm too old now! And Hugh has failed me! Nothing from him.
This sair blow cuts off the last hope! And no educated men of Thibet ever travel! Blindness--blindness
everywhere!" he babbled on, while above him, two women, in an agonized leave-taking, were silently
sobbing in each other's arms, while the happy Swiss servant made her boxes. Nadine Johnstone's
utter wretchedness gave her no sense of a loss by the hand of Death. For a father's love she
had never known, and her mother--a mystery!

The two women cowering together above the old pedant's den with sorrowing hearts communed while
Justine Delande directed the packing of her slender belongings. There was a new spirit of revolt
stirring in Nadine Johnstone's breast, and her face glowed with the resentment of an outraged
heart. When all was ready for Justine's flitting, the heiress of a million pounds finished
a little memorandum, which she calmly explained to the Swiss preceptress. The sense of her
future rights stirred her like a bugle blast, and with clear eyes, she looked beyond the three
years toward Freedom.

"It rests with you, Justine, as to whether I am left friendless for three years of a gloomy
captivity. First you are to telegraph to Major Harry Hardwicke, Royal Engineers, Delhi, and
if you receive no reply, then telegraph to General Willoughby for the Major's address. When
at Granville, and, not before, send this letter to Major Hardwicke at the 'Junior United Service
Club, London'." The beautiful girl was blushing rosy red as the sympathetic Swiss folded her
to her breast. "Then, when you get to Paris, go to No. 9 Rue Berlioz, and leave this letter
there for Madame Berthe Louison. Go yourself. Trust no one. When you have conferred with dear
Euphrosyne, you can send all your letters to Madame Louison at Paris under cover. She will
find out a safe way to get them to me--even if she has to send her man, Jules, over here. He
is quick-witted, and he will find a way to reach me."

There was a dawning wonder in Justine's eyes.

"Who is this strange Madame Louison? Can you trust her?"

"Ah! Justine!" murmured Nadine, "She is only one who loves me, for love's own sake, but I know
I can trust her. She knows something of my mother's past life--something that I do not know.
This old tyrant will now try to cut me off from all the outside world. He has had some strange
power given to him by the father who was only my father in name.

"I will obey you. I swear it!" cried Justine. "And old Simpson will probably be coming on soon.
He loves you. He will serve you."

"Yes," joyously exclaimed Nadine, with a glowing face. "And he adores Major Hardwicke, whose
father saved his life at Lucknow. There is one dawning hope. You are not to write one word
till you hear from me. I know that Madame Louison will manage to send Jules to me in some safe
disguise," she proudly cried, "and remember--I shall not be always a poor prisoner with her
hands tied. The day of my deliverance comes. When I am twenty-one, I can reward both you and
Euphrosyne. She shall have a home to live in ease. And you,--you shall go out into the world
with me, and aid me to find my mother. Even in the tomb I shall find her. I shall know of her
love. For I shall see her loving face, even only in a picture. The face that has blessed me
in my dreams."

Justine Delande saw a future reward awaiting the two faithful guardians of the childhood of
Miss Million. With a sudden impulse, she cried: "There is one to aid even nearer to us now
than Major Hardwicke. For I have a telegram from Euphrosyne, that Major Haivke is at Geneva."

Nadine Johnstone rose and seized both of Justine's hands: "Promise me now, by my dead mother's
grave, that you will never tell that man anything of our secret compact of to-day! I fear him!
I disliked him from the first! He had strange dealings with the dead." The girl's face was
stern. "If I am approached by him in any way, I will cease every communication with you forever!
I will have no aid of Alan Hawke."

And when the parting hour came, Justine Delande was amazed at the cold dignity with which Nadine
Johnstone faced the grim old uncle. It was only at the gate of the "Banker's Folly," that the
heiress for the last time kissed her friend in adieu. "Fear not for me. I have learned the
lesson of Life. Remember!" she whispered. "Keep the faith! Guard my trusts!" and then, Justine
sobbed: "Loyal a la, mort!"

The evening shades were darkening the sculptured shores of Rozel Bay, where clumsy luggers
lay far below, high and dry on the beach, behind the great masonry pier. Skiffs and fishing-boats
lined the shores, and the soft breeze moved the foliage of the luxuriant garden. The white
stars were peeping out and twinkling in the gray and lonely sea, as Nadine shivered and walked
firmly back to the portico, where the old recluse awaited her.

With a stiff motion of perfunctory courtesy, he motioned the heiress into the frosty-looking
drawing-room, now lit up with spectral gleams of wax candles. For he would treat his ward with
a frozen dignity.

Andrew Fraser coughed in a hollow warning and wasted no words in his first bulletin of "General
Orders." "I have here a certified copy of your late father's will," he said, "for your perusal.
You will see all the conditions of life which he has wisely laid down for you. I have telegraphed
on to London for his solicitor to send a representative here, and the original testament will
be duly filed at Doctors' Commons, at once. I shall at once provide you with suitable women
attendants. I have already engaged a proper housekeeper, to whom you can state all your wishes.
With regard to money matters and your correspondence, you must consult me! For the present,
you will readily see that I deem it imprudent for you to leave these spacious and splendid
grounds! But, ye'll find ways to busy yourself. Women always do!"

The old pedant marveled at the young woman's composure, for she simply bowed and awaited a
termination of the interview. Slightly disconcerted, he abruptly demanded: "Have you anything
to say?"

"Only this, Andrew Fraser," coldly replied the heiress. "Your sending away the only woman whom
I know in the world has marked you as a tyrant and a jailer." Her spirit was as unyielding
as his own, and he winced.

"Ye'll find I had your father's warrant. I'll go on to the end and obey him! There are to be
no old associations kept up, and when ye come to your own ye can do all ye will! I'll go my
way in my duty and do it as it seems right!" When he finished he was alone, for the daughter
of Valerie Delavigne had passed him with a glance of unutterable contempt.

There was fire in the eye of the rebellious girl, and the elastic firmness of youth in her
tread, but above stairs, in her own lonely rooms, her courage faded away quickly. But she wrapped
her sorrows in her own proud young heart and turned her eyes to the far East. "Will he come?"
she murmured.

When the clumsy island serving girl had trimmed the fire and drawn the heavy curtains, Nadine
Johnstone locked her doors. She sat spellbound, with a wildly beating heart, until she had
read the last of the sixteen provisions of her father's vindictive will. Though the whole fortune
was left absolutely to her, with the exception of twenty-five thousand pounds each to Andrew
Fraser and his son, she was tied up by restrictions so infamously brutal, that her three years
of minority stretched out before her as a death in life. Five hundred pounds a year of pin
money were allowed to her until her majority, "to be expended with the approval of her guardian."

In an agony of lonely sorrow she threw herself, dressed, upon her bed and sobbed herself into
forgetfulness, her last cry for help mingling the names of Berthe Louison and Harry Hardwicke.
"Will Justine be true to her oath?" she faltered, as she drifted into the blessed release of
dreamland.

As the night wore on, Justine Delande, tossing on her bed in the Royal Victoria Hotel, waited
for the dawn, to sail for Granville. She had telegraphed in curt words her dismissal, and she
burned to reach Geneva, for to her the sight of Alan Hawke's face was the one oasis in her
desert of sorrow.

Long after Nadine Johnstone had closed her tired eyelids, stern old Andrew Fraser cowered below,
glowering over his library fire, clad in a huge plaid dressing gown. His greedy eyes watched
the dancing flames, and he rubbed the thin palms in triumph, while he sipped his nightly glass
of Highland whisky grog. It had been a famous secret campaign for the surviving brother.

"If all goes on well; all goes well!" he crooned. "There's Douglas, gone for good! The boy
is young and soft-like. He might fall into this pert minx's hands as young Douglas with Queen
Mary of old. And, thank God, he knows nothing of the packet of jewels! Not a soul knows in
the wide world! Why should I not save them for myself and turn them into gold? Yes, save them
for myself. For the boy? But he never must know! Ah! I must hide them well! This stubborn girl
knows nothing! That is right! Janet Fairbarn will be here in two days, and I'll have another
man to keep watch; yes, and a good dog, too! For the gallants must never cross my wall!"

"He! He! She'll no fule with Janet Fairbarn," he gloated, "and the will gives me every power.
I must find a place of safety for the jewels," he mused. "I'm glad that I burned Hughie's letter,
as he told me. There's nothing now to show for them. The bank would not be safe. Never must
they go out of my hands. And, I can write a sealed letter for Douglas, to be opened by him
alone, if I should be called away. I can put it in the bank, and take a receipt and send the
boy the receipt. But, no human being must know that I have them." He tottered away to his sleep
murmuring, "But safer still, to turn them into yellow gold. There's a deal of them. I must
find out in time how to dispose of them, but never till the lass above is gone and my accounts
all discharged." And the old miser, who had already robbed his dead brother, slept softly in
love with his own exceeding cunning.

Of all the loungers on the wind-swept wharf at Granville-sur-Mer next day, decidedly the most
natty was Jules Victor, who was now awaiting the return of the little St. Helier's packet,
to engage a special cabin for himself, with all a Gaul's horror of the stormy passage. He sprang
forward, in a genuine surprise, as Mademoiselle Justine Delande, aided by the stout Swiss maid,
tottered over the gangplank. "Madame is ill, a la bonne heure! Let me conduct you to the Hotel
Croix d'Or, where Madame Louison is even now awaiting the Paris train." The ex-zouave was a
miracle of politeness and, he proudly conducted Justine to a waiting fiacre, having deftly
reserved himself the choice of staterooms. With the skill of his artful kind, Jules hastened
upstairs at the Hotel Croix d'Or, to announce to his mistress the lucky find of a windy afternoon
on Granville quay.

That night, when Justine Delande reached Paris, she was assured in her heart that her own future
fortunes were safe, and that her sister would surely be the recipient of Nadine Johnstone's
future bounty. For Madame Berthe Louison, ever armed against possible treachery, announced
her own instant departure for Poland. "But, I leave Jules in charge in Paris, and he will find
the way to deliver your letters to your young friend."

When Justine Delande was safely escorted to the train by the smiling Madame Berthe Louison,
she proceeded to register a packet for London, addressed to "Major Harry Hardwicke."

That young officer's heart was light, three days later, when he received the letter of Nadine
which Madame Louison had cajoled easily from the Swiss woman. And the happy Major's heart was
no lighter than Nadine's for the watchful Janet Fairbarn, now on duty, with her selected subordinates,
wondered to see the pale-faced girl laugh merrily as she chatted over the garden wall with
a strolling French peddler. "I may trade at the gate, may I not, Miss Janet," said Nadine,
"or is that one of the crimes?" But Jules Victor had brought her a new life. She whispered,
"He will come!"

CHAPTER XIII. AN ASIATIC LION IN HIDING.

Madame Alixe Delavigne sat alone in her snug apartment of the Hotel Croix d'Or, at Granville-sur-Mer,
four days after Justine Delande had been driven forth from the Banker's Folly! The perusal
of a long letter from Jules Victor was interrupted by the arrival of a telegram from that rising
young soldier, Captain Anson Anstruther. It needed but a single glance to call the resolute
woman to action.

Smartly ringing the bell, she ordered the maid, her bill, and a voiture to convey her to the
Boulogne station. "So, Hardwicke and Captain Murray are safely in London! Major Hawke is at
Geneva, and I am to hide at Rosebank Villa until he has reported and been sent away on his
continental tour of the great jewel dealers!"

With flying fingers the lady soon penned a letter addressed to "Monsieur Alois Vautier, Marchand-en-petit,
Hotel Bellevue, St. Aubin, Jersey." "He can telegraph to me at Richmond, and one of us will
soon be on the ground to aid him! Now, 'the longest way round is the nearest way home!'" laughed
the ci-devant Madame Louison, as she departed for Boulogne, an hour later, having carefully
mailed her letter personally, and sent a brief telegram to the active Jules Victor.

The ex-Zouave had easily made the rounds of the pretty islet of Jersey, in his capacity of
merchant of small wares, long before Alixe Delavigne, braving the stormy channel, had proceeded
from Folkestone directly to Richmond, and hidden herself in the leafy bowers of Rosebank Villa.
Smiling, gay and debonnair with all the women servants, he had a pinch of snuff, a cigar of
fair quality, or a pipe full of tabac for coachman and groom, supplemented with many a petit
verre from his capacious flask. His Gallic gallantry, with the gift of a trinket or ribbon,
made him welcome with simple milk-maid or pert house "slavey," and the dapper little Frenchman
was already an established favorite in the wine-room of the Hotel Bellevue.

His greatest triumph, however, was the secret demonstration of the cheapness of Jersey prices
to the London sewing woman and smart lady's maid, now chafing under Janet Fairbarn's iron rule
at the "Banker's Folly." "Norn d'un pipe! But I have to make shameful rabaissements de prix,"
muttered Jules, as he adroitly worked upon the susceptibilities of the two new maid servants.
While one or the other of these women always accompanied Miss Nadine Johnstone in her daily
wanderings through the splendid gardens of the Folly, the merry voice of Jules Victor was often
heard by them singing on his way down the road. The gift of a famous brule guenle had propitiated
the simple Jersey gardener, whose stout boy rejoiced in a new leather jacket, almost a gift,
and the second man, Andrew Fraser's reinforcement, a famous drinker, was soon a nightly companion
of "Alois Vautier" at the one little "public," down under the scarped hill at Rizel Bay.

Andrew Fraser, closeted with the London lawyer, had almost forgotten the existence of Nadine
Johnstone.

A formal interview as to the filing of her father's will, a mere mute exhibition of perfunctory
courtesy, released Nadine to her own devices, while Professor Andrew Fraser returned to his
afternoon studies with that famous young Yankee savant, Professor Alaric Hobbs, of Waukesha
University.

The beautiful captive was now happy in dissembling her contentment, for, though the sharp-featured
Scotch housekeeper, Janet Fairbarn, keenly watched all her outgoings, sending always one of
the women as an "outside guard," the heiress had learned some of woman's secret arts quickly.
The peddler, Alois Vautier, brought to her letters and messages which made her lonely heart
light, even in her stately semi-durance. And the epistles of Major Harry Hardwicke left her
with a heart trembling in delight after their perusal.

And so it fell out that four days after Alixe Delavigne had returned to Rosebank Villa, that
a packet of important letters was smuggled past the droning Professor's picket line, one of
which caused Nadine Johnstone to hide her tell-tale blushes in her room.

"To-morrow I will come by, to deliver some little purchases of the maids! Have your answers
all ready. I will be here at ten, at the garden gate!" Long after the Yankee Professor had
left the "Folly" for St. Heliers that night, the lonely girl bent her beautiful head over the
pages, destined to safely reach her lover's eyes in fair London town. And to Berthe Louison,
she now poured out her loving heart, for she knew that her protecting friends would soon be
near her.

"We are waiting, watching, and planning," wrote Alixe Delavigne. "Be cheerful--silent--watchful!
I must be near you, I must see you, face to face, to tell you all the story of the past! I
will then tell you, my own darling child, of the mother whom you have never known. But, first,
Major Hardwicke must open a way to your side! Beware of the schemes of Alan Hawke! He will
be here to-morrow, and he may steal over to Jersey, though his duty takes him for a month to
the Continent! You will surely see Major Hardwicke before you see me for Andrew Fraser might
take alarm at a sight of my face and so hide you away from us all!"

Miss Mildred Anstruther was a delicate symphony in gray, as she gracefully presided the next
evening over the dinner table at which Alixe Delavigne, Captain Anstruther, Major Hardwicke,
and Captain Murray merrily discussed the sudden hastening of Captain Eric Murray's nuptials.
Hardwicke's duty as "best man" was now the only bar to the beginning of a campaign destined
to foil Andrew Fraser's Loch Leven tactics of imprisoning his niece and ward.

"You will have but a brief honeymoon, Eric!" laughed Hardwicke.

"You have promised to stand by me, Harry," replied his friend. "See me married to-morrow, then
a week's honeymoon at Jersey is all that I ask! I can bestow my wife there with a dear friend,
who has the prettiest old Norman chateau-maison on the island, and after that be near you there
at Rozel Bay to work up the final discomfiture of this old vampire. I only claim the attendance
of the whole party at my wedding, then I will disappear and spy out the ground for you long
before you are ready to astonish the dreamy old bookworm. I have made my own plans, and Flossie
has agreed to our runaway trip 'in the interests of the service'! She is a soldier's daughter,
remember!" Miss Mildred, wreathed in her soft laces, shimmering in her gray poplin, and bending
her stately head in salutation, extended a delicate hand, loaded down with quaint old Indian
rings, to each, when the coffee was served.

"I will leave you now to the hatching of your famous conspiracy for the invasion of the Island
of Jersey." The old gentlewoman passed smilingly through the door where the three knightly
soldiers stood bowing low, and then the four conspirators sat down to arrange the dramatis
persona of a little society play in "High Life," in which Professor Andrew Fraser was destined
to be the central figure, and act without "lines" or rehearsal.

The "leading lady" was at the present moment dreaming of a golden future in her own rooms at
the "Banker's Folly." Nadine Johnstone had been allowed to make her apartments as bright and
cheery as her buoyant nature suggested.

For Andrew Fraser, after much discussion with Janet Fairbarn, had convoyed the heiress to St.
Heliers for a day. The resources of all the local furnishers were taxed by the young prisoner's
taste, and, the old executor, unbending a little, grimly vaunted his "dangerous liberality."
"I'll be bail for the expenditure of five hundred pounds, as an extra allowance," he said.
"Now make yourself snug here, for ye'll bide here the whole three years! As to the bookmen,
music, and libraries, I'll give ye a free hand.

"The yearly allowance of yere lamented father will cover all yere dealings with mantua-makers
and milliners. That is yere own affair--all that sort of womanly gear. We will make one day
of it, and if ye are lacking aught, then Miss Janet can bring ye to town, or the dealers can
come." It was, thus self-deluded, that Andrew Fraser noted the coming cheerfulness of his defiant
young charge. He fancied he had provided every wish of her lonely heart. But the trailing lines
of smoke of the daily Southampton packets only spoke to Nadine of a growing correspondence
with Major Harry Hardwicke, Royal Engineers. She waited now for Simpson's arrival for news
of the Delhi mystery--the death of the unloving parent, who had been only her jailer.

At Rosebank Villa, Major Hardwicke was busied with Captain Murray, while Anstruther drew Alixe
Delavigne aside. "Listen to all Murray proposes, and agree to it. You may be astonished at
our plans, but between you and I, alone, lies the deeper secret. My secret orders from the
Viceroy are for your ear alone. Your life-quest to reach Nadine's side can only betaken up
after Murray and Hardwicke have finished their little masquerade at the 'Banker's Folly.' Let
this secret be ours, alone! Do you promise me, Alixe? I will aid you, heart, life, and soul!"
And, with her eyes softly shining in a growing tenderness, Alixe Delavigne murmured: "I trust
you in all things! It shall be as you wish."

Captain Anstruther then led the way to the library, and closing the doors with the minute attention
of a true conspirator, cried: "Murray, we will hear from you first!" Seated, with her lips
parted in an expectant smile, Alixe Delavigne listened in amazement as "Red Eric" proceeded.

"I got the little idea from Frank Halton, of the Globe. You may know that he was out at the
Khyber Pass seven years ago, as the war correspondent of the Telegraph, and he ran over Cabul
at the time of the Penj-Deh incident. He has prepared a series of varied skits and personal
items covering the visit incognito of Prince Djiddin, a Thibetan noble of ancient and shadowy
lineage. This 'Asiatic Lion' will be duly kept in the shadows of a mysterious seclusion in
the Four Kingdoms until we introduce him to a small section of the British public.

"The Globe, the Indian Mail, the Mirror, the Colonial Gazette, and other periodicals will darkly
hint at his itinerary, and he will be paraded judiciously, and no vulgar eye must ever rest
upon him. These items will be widely copied. A graceful, social phantom, a Veiled, mysterious
young potentate is Prince Djiddin!" "The humbug will be easily discovered!" said Anstruther,
still at sea.

"Not if you flung your protecting mantle over him!" cried Murray. "We will shield him by a
protecting Moonshee, who alone speaks his august master's language, a tongue not to be easily
translated; in fact, perfectly proof against all prying outsiders. The one way to hoodwink
old Fraser is to humbug him about the great work on Thibet. That is the one soft spot in the
hide of this old alligator. We have gone carefully over the reports of your secret agent at
St. Heliers. Make us square with him, Captain, let him have your orders to aid us, and he can
get us first hooked on to this Yankee Professor Alaric Hobbs! We will jolly him a bit, and
so, get an interview with old Fraser, and then fool the old chap to the top of his bent. We
will supply him with theories enough to set every bee in his bonnet buzzing. Your man is already
'solid' with Professor Alaric Hobbs, who is a quaint genius, and withal, a hard-headed Yankee,
but full of cranks and 'isms.'"

Anson Anstruther exchanged doubtful glances with Alixe Delavigne, who was still very agnostic.
"The real object is to spy out the interior of Fraser's household without alarming him, and
to locate his hidden treasure, and, moreover, to open a safe, personal communication with Nadine
Johnstone. Letters and messages finally go astray. And, at the very first sign of danger, old
Andrew would clear out to the Continent, shut up the girl, get rid of that insured package,
and cut all future communications! In the long three years, the girl might die, be estranged
from you, or perhaps fall into the hands of some foreign fortune hunter. Human nature--woman
nature--is a mutable quantity. But once we are in communication we can provide for future correspondence
in any event.

"And you, Anstruther, would be defeated in recovering the hidden property of the Crown. Moreover,
these two Frasers are the only heirs-at-law.

"Who knows what might not be done for a million, when a beggarly fifty pounds will buy a death
certificate in many a little continental town?" They were all gravely silent as Murray soberly
clinched his argument. "It is idle not to believe that old Hugh Fraser Johnstone laid out his
brother's whole future course! He certainly has trusted him with his stealings, the lost crown
jewels! He trusts his child's whole future to the care of these two cold Scotsmen, and gives
the heiress over to old Andrew, to keep her safe from Madame," Murray bowed, "his only living
enemy, and from all the other relatives of his long-hated dead wife. From your own disclosures
and Madame's own words, we must all fear that her first appearance would be the signal for
the spiriting away of Nadine until the minority is at an end. And it might invite some secret
crime. She bears the hated face of her dead mother, you say!"

"True," murmured Anstruther. "My solicitor tells me, too, that a guardianship by will is the
very strongest tying-up of a rich young ward. We can follow on later, perhaps, if this opening
could be made, but where have we a 'Prince Djiddin,' and where, the wonderful 'Moonshee?'"

"There is Prince Djiddin," laughed Captain Murray, pointing to Major Harry Hardwicke, "and
here is the Moonshee," he tapped his own broad breast.

"I fail to understand you," slowly replied Anstruther, now blankly gazing at the two men in
a growing wonderment.

"Nothing easier," briskly answered Murray. "I go quietly over to Jersey and spend a honeymoon
week with Flossie. She is soldier enough to know that my little masquerade means full 'duty
pay and traveling allowances.' I will hide her safely with my Jersey friends, and while Frank
Halton works his secret Literary Bureau, I will steal over to Southampton and bring 'Prince
Djiddin' over to St. Heliers. I will see that he naturally falls in with Prof. Alaric Hobbs,
and then, 'fond of seclusion,' I will embower my 'Asiatic Lion' not a league from the 'Banker's
Folly.' I will be near my Flossie, and I propose to bring 'Prince Djiddin' soon face to face
with the heiress.

"As the Prince speaks not a word of English, even old Fraser will be disarmed. Neither Hobbs,
Alaric of that ilk, nor Fraser have ever been in India, and we can easily fool them. Neither
of us have ever been been in Jersey, and fortunately our figures, age, and complexions aid
the makeup. I can do the Moonshee. It was my 'star' cast in many a garrison theatrical show.
Remember, none of them have ever seen Hardwicke or myself--only Miss Nadine will know us."

"But," faltered Alixe Delavigne, "Captain Murray makes no provision for me. Must I be hidden
here always?" Her voice was trembling with the surging love of her longing heart.

"Ah! dear Madame!" replied Murray. "Place aux dames. You can be later quietly escorted to St.
Heliers. Old bookworm Fraser does not leave the 'Folly' once in six months. You shall, on to-morrow,
arrange with Mrs. Flossie Murray to share 'those days of absence' with her, while I am playing
the 'Moonshee' to 'Prince Djiddin's' leading part. With your own sly man-of-all-work, then
how easy for the acute Jules Victor to lead you into the extensive grounds, where you may often
meet Nadine Johnstone when all is safe. He has the friendly entree, and can hoodwink the attendants
of the garden, while your own ingenuity will enable you to have stolen interviews in the splendid
rambles of the 'Banker's Folly.' Old Andrew never quits his study, and all we have to do is
to watch Miss Janet Fairbarn. Jules Victor can guard against a surprise by her."

"It is an ingenious plan, but, a dangerous one," mused Anstruther.

"Not so," boldly replied Murray. "Remember that old Fraser is crazy on his bookwork. Hobbs
is his only male visitor. He has not a relative, a friend--no one to watch on the outside while
we hold the old chap at bay. Miss Janet watches in the house." Anstruther had been carefully
studying the two men's faces. "'Prince Djiddin' will be all right, with a little makeup, using
walnut juice and a proper costume. His Indian brown is quite the thing. But you, my boy, must
be an Eurasian, the son of a high English official and a native woman of rank. You were carried
away to Thibet by your beautiful Cashmere mother when she was abandoned. The usual sad story
will go. She, driven out by her family, refuges finally in Hlassa, and your English was, of
course, learned before the death of your father, when you were eighteen. Your usefulness as
interpreter caused you to attach yourself to 'Prince Djiddin's' noble family.

"Yes," said Hardwicke. "A couple of days spent in the British Museum, and with your fertile
imagination, Eric, you will be enabled to describe the mysterious, lonely city on the Dzangstu,
and even the gilded temples of Mount Botala. You can easily book up all about the Dalai Lama.
Make a voyage a la Tom Moore to Cashmere!"

"Right you are!" laughed Eric Murray. "Frank Halton stole into the town of Hlassa and he now
offers to me his sketchbooks and private notebooks. Foreigners from the south have occasionally
been allowed to go into Thibet since the Nepauese were driven out, but only very rarely. I
will have all the rig and quaint outlandish gear that Halton brought away. So you see we are
the 'Ever Victorious Army.' Yes. Prince Djiddin will be a go." And the others were fain to
agree in the plausibility of the scheme.

It was midnight when the quartette separated to meet at the quiet wedding of the morrow. Alixe
Delavigne had finally approved the plan, when Anson Anstruther drew her away to confer upon
the risk. "You see," he pleaded, "Murray will never even speak to Miss Johnstone. All that
pleasing task is left to Prince Djiddin, who can and will, of course, choose any unguarded
moment. Captain Murray will hold old Fraser personally in limbo, while you and Prince Djiddin
can meet the pretty captive in alternation. At any danger signal, the Prince and Moonshee can
quit Jersey at once." Then the lightning thought came to the lady: "She already loves him!
It must be so! He is the only young officer who was ever allowed to enter the Marble House
in that long year of golden bondage. It shall be so! I can trust to him for her sake, if he
loves her for Love's own sake. I can remain near Nadine then, even if they have to disappear,
for Jules will keep the pathway open." And yet, shamefaced in her own growing tenderness for
her mentor, Anstruther, she took these wise counsels away to hide them in her own happy heart.
"It will make us then, Captain Murray," she said, as she extended her hand in good night, "a
little circle of five, gathered around this motherless and fatherless girl to save her from
the secret schemes of tyrant and fortune hunter."

"Precisely so, Madame," laughed Murray, "when I have sworn in my beautiful recruit to-morrow.
Then we will be five in very truth." There was a flying early morning visit to Hunt and Roskell's
on the morrow, which greatly astonished Captain Anstruther, who had escorted Madame Alixe Delavigne
down on her way to the pretty chapel at Kew, where Captain Murray duly "swore in his beautiful
recruit," with bell, book, and candle. The parure of diamonds which the lady of Jitomir gave
to Mrs. Flossie Murray caused even the eyes of "The Moonshee" to open in wonder at the little
campaign breakfast of the leaders of this Crusade of Love. "Only suited to the wife of Prince
Djiddin's High Chamberlain," laughed Alixe Delavigne, as the happy Captain departed on his
honeymoon tour, escaping showers of rice, to "move upon the enemy's works in Jersey."

"Thank God that I have got that sharp-eyed Hawke safely out of town," cried Captain Anstruther
to his beautiful confidante, as they escorted Miss Mildred back to beautiful Rosebank. The
"lass o' Richmond Hill" was no fairer than the happy woman who had seen Major Hardwicke depart
for a long conference with that all powerful sprite of the magic pen, Frank Halton, who was
now busied in launching his creation, Prince Djiddin. "A single word at the 'F. O.' will legalize
our useful myth, 'Prince Djiddin,' and I hope that Hardwicke and Murray will succeed. They
can surely lose nothing by the attempt. I am known to be the Viceroy's aide-de-camp 'on leave,'
a near kinsman, and I am sure that old Fraser would take alarm at the first visit or written
communication from me. Once startled, he would soon be off to hide the jewels on the Continent,
and then only laugh at our efforts. Of course he will swear that the insured packet only contained
family papers or some of the estate's securities. Yes! Alan Hawke is the only man whom I fear
now as to the safety of either the girl or the jewels. He seems to have had many old dealings
with Hugh Johnstone, too!" They were silent as they threaded the beautiful Surrey garden lanes
of the old burgh of Sheen. Loved by the bluff Harrys of the English throne, its beauties sung
by poet and deputed by artist, the charming declivities of Richmond gained a new name from
Henry VII, and its bosky shades once saw a kingly Edward, a Henry, and a mighty Elizabeth drop
the scepter of Great Britain from the palsied hand of Death. Its little parish church to-day
hides the ashes of the pensive pastoral poet Thomson, and the bones of the great actor Kean.
But, Anstruther's active mind was only dwelling in the present, as Miss Mildred nodded in the
carriage. He saw again the simple wedding of the morning, and heard once more those touching
words "I, Eric, take thee, Florence." Then his eyes sought the face of Alixe Delavigne in a
burning glance, which caused that lady to seek her own bower in Rosebank villa, and hide her
blushes from "Him Who Would Not Be Denied." Miss Mildred smiled and nodded behind her fan,
for she heard the Bells of the Future sounding afar off.

The graceful woman escorted Captain Anstruther to the river's edge that night, when he departed
to a conference of moment with Hardwicke and Halton. She fled back, like the swift Camilla,
to her own nest, as the Captain went forth upon the river. Only the listening flowers heard
her startled answer when Anstruther had found a voice to tell the Pilgrim of Love his own story
in a soldier's frank way. "Wait, Anson! Wait, till you know me better, till our quest is done;
wait till the roses bloom here once more," she had whispered.

"And if I do wait, Alixe--if I ask you again?" Anstruther cried as he kissed her slender hand.

"Then you shall have my answer," she faltered, but her eyes shone like stars as she lightly
fled away.

Captain Anson Anstruther had reckoned without his host when he rejoiced over Alan Hawke's departure.
As the aide-de-camp sped down the darkened river, he still saw Alixe Delavigne's eyes gleaming
down on him in every tender twinkling star, but the wily agent whom he had dispatched to the
Continent four days before, was near him yet, and comfortably dining in a little snug public
in the Tower Hamlets, on this very night. He was looking for tools suited to a dark game which
busied his reckless heart.

Major Alan Hawke (temporary rank) had passed two days at Geneva in a serious conference with
the sorrowing sisters Delande. His meeting with the softhearted Justine had brought the color
back to the poor woman's face, and she shyly held up the diamond bracelet to his view, murmuring,
"I have thought of you and kissed it every night and morning, for your sake, Alan!"

With a glance of veiled tenderness, the acute schemer took his fair dupe out upon the lake,
while Euphrosyne directed the slow grinding of the mills of the gods. "I must lose no time,"
Hawke pleaded, "as I have to report for duty in London." And so, he gleaned the story of the
hegira and the situation at the Banker's Folly. He heard all, and yet felt that there was a
gap in the story. Justine was true to her plighted word.

He instinctively felt that Justine was holding back something of moment, and yet in his heart
he felt that the price of that disclosure would be his formal betrothal to the loving Justine.
But he dared not vow to marry, and the Swiss woman was loyally true to her oath. He remained
"their loving brother" as yet, and when two days later, Alan Hawke departed for London direct,
he mused vainly over the tangled problem until he reported to Captain Anson Anstruther. "If
this greenhorn girl has any designs of her own she has not told them yet to Justine. I must
get a man to help me to work my scheme, or go over to Jersey myself," he at last decided. He
was secretly happy at Captain Anstruther's prompt injunctions to make ready for a tour of two
months upon the Continent. "I shall have all your detailed instructions prepared tomorrow,
Major Hawke," said the young aide-de-camp. "Meet me, therefore, at the Junior United Service
at ten o'clock; you can take a couple of days to look over London, and then proceed at once
to the delicate duty which I will give to you. And, remember, the Viceroy's orders are that
you are to report to me alone, and also to preserve an absolute secrecy. Your future rank will
depend upon your discretion." Major Alan Hawke was not as cheerful, however, when he opened
his private mail at Morley's Hotel, as when he had bade adieu to Captain Anstruther. A formal
communication from the Credit Lyonnais informed him that Monsieur le Professeur Andrew Fraser
had formally forbidden Messrs. Glyn, Carr & Glyn to pay the four bills of exchange, acting
in his capacity of executor of a will duly filed at Doctor's Commons, and that the four drafts
must be proved as debts against the estate, and so paid later, in due process of law on proof
of the claim. The refusal was due to the death of the drawer before presentment.

"Damn it! I must play a fine game now!" he glowered. "Anstruther I must obey in all! Once back
in India with rank, however, I can force old Ram Lal to pay these drafts. He dare not resist--there's
the rope for him!

"And I must find a fellow to spy out the situation in Jersey. I certainly dare not linger here!"
He be-took himself to an old haunt in Tower Hamlets, where the first stars of the "swell mob"
were wont to linger, a haunt where he had once taken refuge in his changeling days, years before.

A glance at a man seated enjoying a good cigar at a table caused his heart to leap up in joy.
"Jack Blunt--of all men! By God! this is luck!" he cried. When the happy Alan Hawke tapped
the smoker smartly on the shoulder he first laid a finger on his own lip and then hastily said:
"Get a private room, Jack, I want you at once. I've a special bit of business in your line."
Major Alan Hawke, Temporary Rank, unattached, hastily bade the boni-face serve the best supper
available for two. "Mind you, no poison in the wine!" he sharply said.

"We've the best vintages of London Docks," grinned the happy host, as he sped away and left
the two scoundrels alone.

"What are you doing now, Jack?" queried Hawke.

"Nothing," sullenly replied the middle-aged star of the swell mob. "My eyes! you are in great
form," he admiringly commented.

"Can you leave town for a week or so, on a little job for me?" briskly continued the Major.

"Ready money?" said "Gentleman Jack" Blunt, stroking out a pair of glossy side whiskers.

"Yes, cash in plenty on hand, and lots more in sight," imperatively replied the Major.

"Do I work with you, or alone?" asked Blunt.

"It's a little private investigation," replied Hawke, "and as I have to leave town to-night,
and spend a couple of months on the Continent, you are the very man. I am afraid to appear
in the thing myself, as I am well known to the other parties, and so I fear being followed
over the Channel. I'm back again in the army." Jack's eyes grew larger in a trice.

"Here comes the grub," gayly said Blunt. "You can trust the wine here. The crib is square,
too. Now, my boy, fire away. We are alone, and no listeners here." Before Jack Blunt had put
away a pint of best "beeswing" sherry, he was aware of all Alan Hawke's intentions. His keen
brain was working all its "cylinders."

"Give me just five minutes to think it over, Governor," said the sparkling-eyed, dark-faced,
swell cracksman. "I know Jersey like a book. I worked the 'summer racket' there once. The excursion
boats, the farmers' races, the Casino balls, the Military games, and the whole lay. I think
I can cook up a plan. You don't show up just yet. I am to do the 'downy cove.'"

"Not till I can double on my track, and you have piped the whole situation off," said Hawke.
"The game is a queer one. I may want to come over later and show up and make a little society
play on the girl. I may, however, join you and help you secretly, or I may have to stay away
altogether. But I must act at once. There's money in it. If you have to make the running yourself,
you can get your own help."

"And, you have the real stuff?" agnostically demanded Jack Blunt.

"What do you want for a starter as your pay for the report to be sent to me at the Hotel Faucon,
Lausanne, Switzerland?" Hawke was eager and disposed to be liberal.

"Oh! A hundred sovs for the job, as you lay it out--and fifty for my little incidentals," laughed
Jack Blunt. "Of course, if it goes on to anything serious, you'll have to put away the real
'boodle,' where I have something to run with, if I have to cut it. I might run up a dangerous
plant!"

"Bah!" decisively said Hawke. "Only an old fool to dodge, who is over seventy--a dotard--and
a foolish girl of eighteen--a simple boarding-school miss!"

"Yes, but she has a million, you say. There's always some one to love a girl with that money!
Love comes in by the door, and the window, too, you know!"

"She has never been five minutes alone with a man in her life!" cried Hawke. "You are safe--dead
sure safe!" Blunt's roving black eyes rested on Hawke's eager face as he laughed.

"And you want to marry her, to keep others from her, or run her off at the worst, you say?
That's your little game."

"I will have either the girl, or those jewels! By God! I will! I've got money to work with,
plenty of it--not here," cautiously said Hawke, "but there's your hundred and fifty. Do you
stand in?"

"To the death--if you do the handsome thing, my boy!" said the handsome ruffian, pocketing
the notes. "When do I start?"

"Take the midnight train to Southampton, and go at work at once. I fear they may send some
damned spies over there! Now, what's your plan?" Major Hawke watched his old pal in a brown study.

Jack Blunt had smoked half his cigar, when he brought his white hand down with a whack. "I
have it! A combination of gentleman artist and literary gent! 'The Mansion Homes of Jersey,'
to illustrate a volume for the use of tourists--London and Southwestern Railway's enterprise.
I'll sneak in and do the grand. You want a correct sketch and map of house and grounds, and
the whole lay out?" Artist Blunt was delightfully interested in his Jersey tour now.

"Yes!" cried Alan Hawke, his eyes growing wolfish, and he leaned over to his companion and
whispered for a few moments. "That's the trick, Governor," nodded Jack Blunt, "You work on
the double event. And--I get my money--play or pay?"

"Yes. Put up in good notes--only you are not to bungle!"

"Do you think I would fool around with a 'previous conviction' against me? The next is a lifer,
and I've got to use the knife or a barker, if I run up against trouble, for I'll never wear
the Queen's jewelry again! I've sworn it!" The man's eyes were gleaming now like burning coals,
"I'll do the grand, and then, take off my beard and change my garb! I look twenty years older
in a stubble chin. I can watch them from the public at Rozel Pier. I used to do a neat little
bit of cognac, silk, and cigar smuggling. I know every crag of Corbiere Rocks, every shady
joint in St. Heliers, every nook of St. Aubin's Bay. Oh! I'm fly to the whole game!"

"Could you not get a good boat's crew there?" anxiously demanded Major Hawke.

"Ah! My boy! I am 'king high' with a set of daring fishermen, who can smell out every rock
from Dover to Land's End; and, from Calais to Brest, in the blackest night of the channel,
if it pays."

"Then, Jack, your fortune is made, if you stand in. We'll pull it off, in one way or the other.
You've got an easy job for a man of your ability. I'll meet you at Granville! Now, get over
to St. Heliers, and work the whole trick in your own way! Send me your secret address in Jersey
at once to Hotel Faucon, Lausanne, and run over to the French coast at Granville and find a
safe nest there for us. There we are within seventeen miles of each other, with two mails a
day, and the telegraph. It's a wonderful plant, so it is."

"Yes, Governor! And old Etienne Garcia, at the 'Cor d'Abondance' in Granville, is the very
slyest rogue in France. When you find a Crapaud who is dead to rights, he is always an out
and outer. I'll square you with my old pal, Etienne, who slyly makes 'floaters' and then gets
the government cash reward for towing them in. He has always a half dozen pretty girls hanging
around there, and many a good looking stranger has ended his 'tour' by a sudden drop through
the flow of the drinking room over the wharf where Etienne keeps his 'boats to let.'"

"How does he do it?" mused Alan Hawke. "It's a risky game in France."

Jack Blunt laughed.

"A few puffs of smoke in a cognac glass, and the subject is knocked out for an hour after drinking
from the nicotine-filmed crystal, bless you," laughed Blunt, "there's never a mark on Etienne's
victims. He is too fine for that, only cases of plain, simple, 'accidental drowning.'

"You may as well address me as 'Joseph Smith, Jersey Arms, Rozel Pier, Jersey.' I am solid
with Mrs. Floyd, the landlady there," said the scoundrel mobsman, anxious to spend some of
his cash.

"All right, then, Jack! Go ahead!" cheerfully cried Major Hawke. "Don't overgo my instructions
a single hair! I'll either join you in the grand stroke, or else meet you at Granville and
there tell you what to do. Remember that I'll settle all your Jersey bills, and I will send
a post order for ten pounds extra to you at the 'Jersey Arms,' to give you a local standing
with the postman.

"That you can spend on the underlings around the Banker's Folly, but beware of an old body
servant named Simpson--an old red-coat who may turn up any day now from India! He was Johnstone's
own man, and he hates me, at heart, I know! Now, if you can do the 'artist act,' you must find
out where the old man keeps his stuff! I don't know yet whether we want him first or the girl;
or to crack the whole crib! If we ever do, then, Simpson must get the--" Hawke grimly smiled,
as he drew his hand across his throat! "I must be off!" he hastily said as he noted the time.

On his way over to Folkestone, Major Alan Hawke mused over his great coup, as he lay at ease,
wrapped up in a traveling rug, and now resplendent in a fur-trimmed top coat, befrogged and
laced, which indicated the officer en retraite.

"I will first do up Holland, Belgium, and Denmark, and take a little preliminary look around
Paris," mused the Major, studying a list of the missing jewels which Captain Anstruther had
artfully arranged. Sundry deductions and additions, with an admirable disorder in the items
(judiciously divided and reclassified) served to guard against any old confidences exchanged
between Ram Lal and his secret friend Hawke. The real list in the original was now in the private
pocket-book of the Viceroy.

"Each of our Consuls at the cities you are to visit has this list," said Anstruther to the
Major, "and you can vary your travel as you choose, but visit all these jewel marts, and report
to the local Consuls. If they have further orders for you, you will get them there, at first
hands. Should you find that any of the jewels have been offered for sale, simply report the
facts to the local Consul, and write under seal to me at the Junior United Service, then go
on and examine further at once! You are to take no steps whatever to recover them, or to alarm
the thieves! All your expenses and your pay will be advanced by me!" The acute schemer decided
not to risk any suspicions by marketing his own jewels. "They might bounce me for the murder,"
fearfully mused the Major. "I could show no honest title through Ram Lal. They might arrest
him, and I need him to pay the protested drafts--later, when I go back on the Viceroy's staff!"
He smiled and wove his webs like a spider in his den.

On his arrival in Paris, from a run to the Low Countries, a week later, Major Alan Hawke betook
himself at once to No. 9 Rue Berlioz. And there Marie Victor greeted him, handing him a letter
which was dated from Jitomir, Volhynia. "How is your mistress?" he affably demanded.

"She is well, and will remain for several months longer in Russia!" politely answered Marie,
bowing him out.

"By God, then, she has given up the chase! I see it all!" mused Hawke, as he pored over the
letter on his way to the Hotel Binda. "The trump card she wished to play was to blast the old
fellow's hopes of a baronetcy. Death has struck down her prey, and, she will now wait till
the girl is free! She is too sly to face old Fraser; his brother has warned him. But she says
she will need me in the winter, on her return."

The deceived scoundrel laughed. "The coast is left clear for me now! I'll telegraph to Joseph
Smith, run on to Geneva, deposit my own jewels there, in the agency of the Credit Lyonnais,
and then return the notifications of protest of the Bills of Exchange to Ram Lal.

"I wonder if I can steal those jewels, get my Major's rank as a reward from the Viceroy, and
marry the girl? It would be the luck of a life!" he dreamed.

Two days later, on the terraces of Lausanne, he laughed over Jack Blunt's cheeky campaign.

"The 'artist dodge' worked to a charm," wrote Jack. "I used the Kodak, and I have a dozen good
views of the house, and as many more of the grounds. My chapter on the 'Artistic Homes of Jersey,'
will be a full one! I soon jollied a couple of the London maid servants into my confidence.
By the way, send me, at once, another 'tenner' for expense, and some money for my own regular
bills. I can make great play on the two frolicsome maids. They are up for a lark. The shy bird
keeps her rooms; and there really seems to be no young man around. Devilish strange! A room
is being got ready for the old body servant who is now on his way from India. He might fall
over Rozel cliff some night, when half seas over! That's a natural ending for him! Maps, sketches,
and all will be ready for you at the place we agreed. It's all lying ready to our hand, and
ten minutes of a dark night is all I want. The old chap is always mooning alone in his study,
till the midnight hours, over his books, and he has the whole ground floor to himself. The
men are in the gardener's house, ten rods away, and all the women sleep upstairs. He sees no
one but a half crazy Yankee professor, who drops in of a morning. But, the shy bird keeps in
her cage, and lives in great state, upstairs. More when you send the money."

On his way to say adieu to Justine, before departing to Vienna, Alan Hawke smiled grimly. "I
can strike now, when I will, and as I will! But, first to race around a little, and then, having
fulfilled my mission, to get a couple of weeks' furlough, to go about my own affairs. The coast
is clear. Jack Blunt's plan is right. Simpson must be first put out of the way. He would fight
like a rat on general principles."

At Rosebank Villa, Madame Alixe Delavigne was nightly busied now in official conferences with
Major Harry Hardwicke, who had lingered in the concealment of Anstruther's home. The Captain
found abundant time to prosecute his "official business" with his lovely aid in the secret
service. And he had learned all of Alixe Delavigne's lessons now, save to acquire the patience
to wait. But a growing album of newspaper clippings was daily augmented by Frank Hatton's artfully
disseminated items regarding "Prince Djiddin of Thibet," the first visitor of rank from that
land of shadows. The warring journals who wrangled over the rich young visitor's "stern retirement"
from all public intrusion referred to the political coup de main to be looked for in "the near
future." From various parts of the United Kingdom, the mysterious princely visitor's trail
was daily telegraphed, and a hearty laugh from all three of the conspirators of Rosebank Villa
greeted the final article in the St. Heliers Messenger, stating that a learned Moonshee or
Pundit, "the only Asiatic attendant of Prince Djiddin of Thibet" was arranging for a brief
visit of a descendant of the Dalai-Lamas.

Anstruther and Hardwicke laughed merrily at Frank Halton's last graceful touches. "A romantic
gratitude to a retired British officer, who had once befriended the Prince's august father,
was the one impelling cause of a visit, in which the strictest retirement would be guarded
by the dweller on the Roof of the World," etc., etc. So read out Madame Delavigne, closing
with the remark that the "Moonshee had already visited the Royal Victoria Hotel at St. Heliers
to arrange for the coming of his friend, and to the regret of the authorities, the Prince would
decline all the hospitality due to his exalted rank."

"Captain Murray must be even now at work," anxiously said the fair reader.

"We will hear at once," said Anstruther. "Prince Djiddin, you must now materialize! For Murray's
letter tells me that he is already in full communication with Jules Victor at the Hotel Bellevue.
So the 'Moonshee' has one faithful friend near at hand. If there is any shadowing of either
of you, Jules Victor is an invincible avant garde. He knows the faces of all the dramatis persona.
You see, Douglas Fraser is gone to India and old Andrew has never seen any of our 'star actors.'
We are absolutely safe!"

"It seems that fortune favors us," tremblingly said Alixe Delavigne. "This prying and curious
Yankee, Professor Hobbs, also seems to have fallen at once into the trap! Captain Murray's
description of his 'interview,' at the Royal Victoria, with Alaric Hobbs, is a crystallized
work of humorous art!"

"Of course the Yankee savant will write columns to the Waukesha Clarion, describing this Asiatic
lion, Prince Djiddin, and exploit him in the States as an 'original discovery' of his own.
His eagerness to arrange an interview between the Prince and Professor Fraser is most ludicrously
fortunate for us," said Captain Anstruther.

The entrance of the butler with a telegram disturbed "Prince Djiddin" and his lovely confidential
staff officer. "An answer, please, Captain," formally continued the household factotum.

"Hurrah!" cried Hardwicke, when the little conclave gathered around the red light. "Simpson
has arrived, and now Nadine and I have some one whom we can both trust!" The further information
that the "Moonshee" would arrive forthwith to conduct "Prince Djiddin" to the safe haven where
that fascinating bride, Mrs. Flossie Murray, awaited her beloved truant, was a call to prompt
action. "I am ready! I shall drop the Royal Engineers and live up to my 'blue china' as a Prince!"
cried Hardwicke.

CHAPTER XIV. THE COUNCIL AT GRANVILLE.

When Major Alan Hawke returned, three weeks later, to the Hotel Grand National, at Geneva,
he was sorely wearied and dispirited. A round of inspection of all the principal jewel marts
of the continent had been only a fruitless, solitary tourist promenade. And the ominous silence
of Captain Anson Anstruther, A. D. C., boded no good to the military future of the adventurer.
"Damn me, if I don't think that I have been hoodwinked!" growled Major Hawke, on his re-turn
from Moscow and St. Petersburg, whither he had been ordered, as a last resort, to see the Court
jewelers.

From Warsaw, he wrote to the Hotel Faucon, at Lausanne, to send all his letters to meet him
at Berlin, where Jack Blunt had given him the address of the safest "fence" in all Kaiser Wilhelm's
broad domain. He had his own jewels valued there in Russia, but dared not sell them.

With a sudden inspiration, born of a growing fear for the stability of his house of cards,
so flimsy in construction, he ran down to Jitomir, and the half-crazed adventurer only lingered
an hour with the Intendant of Madame Alixe Delavigne's grand old domain. He found the bird
flown. Had he been duped? A permission to view the old chateau was courteously accorded, and
then Alan Hawke soon realized that he was betrayed. For the fact that Madame was still absent,
"traveling around the world," and had not visited her Volhynian estate for a year, proved to
him now that he had been doubly tricked. "Ah! By God! I have it!" he cried, as he set his teeth
in a white rage. "That fool, Anstruther, is bewitched by her Polish wiles, the mongrel inheritance
of La Grande Armee's visit to Russia!" Straight as the crow flies, Alan Hawke then pressed
on to Lemberg, and hastened to Berlin, having sent on his last official report to Captain Anstruther,
at London. In Berlin, a letter from Jack Blunt decided his whole career. There was news of
moment, which set his hot blood boiling in his veins.

"Simpson, the old body servant, has arrived from India," wrote the disguised ex-convict. "And
he's mighty thick with your shy bird, too. There is some strange game going on here, which
I can't make out. The cute Yankee professor is furious, for old Fraser has temporarily given
him the 'dead cut.' The American is totally neglected, for the old idiot spends half his time,
now, shut up in his study with a visiting nigger prince from India, and the yellow fellow's
half-breed interpreter. I send you a dozen cuttings from the papers. The Prince, however, seems
to be all O. K. He never even notices the shy bird. He probably buys his women at home. How
could he, for he does not speak a single damned word of English. But I've caught sight of this
Moonshee fellow trying to do the polite to the heiress. Old Simpson keenly watches the whole
goings on, and I've tried to pull him on! No go! But he sneaks off himself, gets roaring full,
down at Rozel Pier, with a little French peddler fellow, that he has picked up. And, I don't
like this French chap's looks. Too fly, and far too free with his money. There's no one else
who has, as yet, showed up here. Not a woman, no other human being but a London lawyer. And
I'm told now the guardian and niece are soon going over to London to deposit all the papers
that Simpson brought home and to do 'a turn' at Doctor's Commons. Now's your very time--the
dark of the moon. Better cut your job and come over to me at Granville; and why can we not
turn the place up-while they are away? To do that, we must do Simpson 'for fair,' and I now
know his nightly trail. Send money, plenty of it, and come on. I am 'on the beachcomber's lay,'
now, down at the Jersey Arms, Rozel Pier. Write or telegraph me a line, and I'll instantly
meet you at Granville, at the Cor d'Abondance."

A loving letter from Justine Delande inclosed a notice of a registered letter waiting at the
Agence du Credit Lyonnais, Geneva. It is marked "Tres Important," she wrote, and then added:
"I have received a letter from Nadine, who says that her guardian is now half crazy with excitement
over the finishing of his 'History of Thibet, and Memoir Upon the Lost Ten Tribes,' for he
has an Indian visitor of princely rank, and he even proposes to take this Prince Djiddin and
his 'Moonshee' into the house, so as to shut the world out from the wonderful disclosures of
the only visitor of rank who ever left Thibet."

Alan Hawke's brow was gloomy when he read the last letter, which was a brief note from Captain
Anstruther, informing him that his final instructions would be forwarded "in a week." The ominous
silence of "Madame Berthe Louison," the living lie of her pretended visit to Russia, the trick
of the letters sent on from Jitomir to his Parisian address, now only confirmed his jealous rage.

"They are living in a fool's paradise together, this dapper aide and the wily woman, hiding
in England! One has betrayed me, and the other will now coldly abandon me! I'll soon raise
a hornets' nest about their ears!" So, with a simple telegraphed word "coming," dispatched
to "Joseph Smith," he sped on to Geneva from his "Leipsic defeat" at Berlin, but only to meet
a ghastly "Waterloo" at the Grand Hotel National. He had ordered the letters from the Hotel
Faucon to be sent on there to Miss Justine, and when he had freed himself from her clasping
arms he read a curt official note from the Viceroy's aid-de-camp which left him livid in a
paroxysm of fury. On his way from the station he had only stopped long enough at the Agence
du Credit Lyonnais to receive an official-looking document. "My accounts, I presume," he had
muttered, thrusting them in his pocket. But, when he had read Captain Anstruther's formal note,
he tore open the letter of the great French Banking Company. The two letters curtly illustrated
the old saw, that "it never rains, but it pours!" With a fluttering heart poor Justine Delande
watched her undeclared lover's blackening face.

"Hell and furies!" he cried, "the whole world is leagued against me. I've got to go back to
India now, Justine, and go alone. Luck is dead against me now." And the whitening face of the
woman who hung on his every glance made the infuriated man even more reckless. "Damn them,
I'll grind them all to powder!" he growled. For the tide was on the turn, and it was dead water
again at Geneva, the tide fast receding, and the man who was "a devil for luck" was soon left
on the rocks of a silent despair.

Alan Hawke's eyes gleamed out with a murderous sheen as he scanned both letters carefully.
"It is his work--the low dog--and he shall die. Wait till Jack Blunt and I get a hack at him,"
he mused, with a sudden conviction that he dared not now show himself at St. Heliers, nor openly
approach the Banker's Folly. "I stand to lose all and win nothing. I must work in the dark.
I cannot dare to brave this Anstruther. They would simply drive me from India. But, Simpson
and Ram Lal shall pay! And, Berthe Louison--Ah! By God! I will strike her to the heart now!
I see the way!"

The official words of Captain Anstruther were few but crushing in there stern brevity. And
Alan Hawke's heart sank as he read them over again. "By the orders of His Excellency, the Viceroy,
I have the honor to inform you that he has withdrawn your temporary rank, and all powers heretofore
delegated to you will cease on the receipt of this letter, which please acknowledge. On reporting
to me in London in person, you will receive the payment of all your accounts with your back
pay and transportation back to Calcutta, the place of your temporary appointment. All the Consuls
in continental Europe have now been notified of the cessation of your powers, and you will
therefore, in no way act in the future in regard to the confidential business once in your
hands. The inquiry has been finally abandoned by the order of the Indian Government.

"Please do report as soon as possible, and deliver over all papers and vouchers now remaining
in your hands. With assurance of my consideration, Yours,

"ANSON ANSTRUTHER, Captain and A. D. C."

"Official,

"Confidential."

The letter of the Credit Lyonnais was even more menacing in its tone. The Direction G'entrale
referred to a formal letter of the solicitors of the estate of Hugh Fraser Johnstone, deceased,
totally repudiating the four unaccepted drafts of five thousand pounds sterling each, and legally
notifying the Direction of an intended suit to recover from the payee and the in-dorser, the
first draft for five thousand pounds paid before Executor Andrew Fraser had filed his objections
with Messrs. Glyn, Carr & Glyn. "The arrival from India of the papers of the deceased, and
the testimony of his body servant Simpson, as well as the Calcutta Banker and solicitors, proves
that no such considerable withdrawals as twenty-five thousand pounds were ever contemplated
by the deceased, who had sent the most minute business instructions to his agent and later
executor."

"I shall have to throw this all back on Ram Lal." mused Alan Hawke, who hastily bade Justine
an adieu, until he could conjure up an explanation for the Geneva agents of the Credit Lyonnais.
The closing words of the Paris Derection were semi-hostile. "Be pleased. Monsieur, to call
at once upon our Geneva branch and explain these imputations. We are forced to withhold your
present deposits to cover any reclamation and legal expenses, and we therefore beg you to discontinue
the drawing of any drafts upon us until the solicitors of Messrs. Glyn, Carr & Glyn and the
Executor notify us of the settlement of this distressing imputation upon the regularity of
our actions as your business agents."

"That leaves me only the jewels, and about a thousand pounds ready cash on hand, and that is
due from Anstruther," gloomily decided Alan Hawke, when he was safely locked in his rooms at
the National.

"Tricked by this double-faced devil Louison-Delavigne, thrown out of my future rank, held for
the five thousand pounds already advanced, and, with eleven thousand embargoed in that Paris
pawnbroker shop of a Credit Lyonnais, I've but one course left to me now."

He took counsel of the brandy bottle, and then, ignoring all else, he sent off a careful letter
to Joseph Smith. "I'll jolly poor Justine a bit, so as to leave one faithful friend to watch
and get all my letters here. Jack can raise money on the jewels now for us both. I must tell
these fellows of the French Bank here that I go to London to see my own lawyers. I'll go over,
settle with Anstruther, and then just quietly disappear. The next blow shall come out of the
blackness of night, and I'll strike them all at once!"

In the evening, Major Alan Hawke drove with Justine Delande to the restaurant garden, where,
long months before, he had first learned the daring hardihood of his fair employer--the acute
woman who had fooled him at every turn. His heart was saddened with all the fresh hopes which
had failed him. He had frankly told Euphrosyne Delande that a return journey to India, and
a long and bitter struggle now lay between him and the rank and competence which he would need
to make her loving sister his wife.

Three hours later Justine Delande's arms clung desparingly around the handsome outcast, as
he was leaving her to be escorted home by the adroit Francois, already in waiting without the
restaurant with a closed carriage. The presage of sorrow weighed upon her loving heart.

"Alan, My God, I can not let you go. You are the one brightness of my life. My heart of hearts.
My very soul," sobbed the wretched woman. "I have fears for you. They will kill you in that
far land, these powerful enemies. That mysterious devil woman who bends all to her will will
ruin you." And then, really touched at heart, the desperate trickster drew off his finger a
superb diamond, the nonpareil, the choicest stone of Ram Lal's unwilling tribute. "Wear this
always, and think of me, Justine," he said. "You are the only woman who ever loved me, and,
if I succeed, I swear you shall share my better fortunes--if not, then--" he crushed her to
his breast and ran out of the room, before she could drag him back. "Go in, Francois, quickly
to Miss Justine," cried Hawke, thrusting a hundred-franc note in the butler's open hand. The
rattle of departing wheels was heard as Francois supported the half-fainting woman to her carriage.

"Now for London," growled Major Hawke as the train dashed down the Rhone valley. "I've got
a clear alibi here. All my letters sent to Justine will be forwarded to the Delhi Club. One
day in London, then to Granville, and Jack Blunt. They will only get Justine's story if they
shadow me, and if I can only hit it off right, at Calcutta. Yes! there is the king luck of
all. To give the whole thing away to the baffled Viceroy. Then denounce Ram Lal to him as the
early confederate and later assassin of Hugh Fraser Johnstone! These jewels that I have 'innocently
received' will connect old Ram Lal with Hugh Fraser's betrayed trust. I will hold the murder
business back at first.

"Ram Lal or his estate will be finally forced to cash my drafts. It is clear that Johnstone
and Ram Lal have either divided or hidden the jewels. Yes! By God! I have it. If I can wring
them out of the old professor, or find them, I will then hide them away and secretly report
the whole affair to the Viceroy, in my chosen colors as a friend of the Crown, and they'll
give me a huge reward; my permanent army rank will soon follow. So, if Justine only holds to
my alibi, by God! I will marry her, for she would be a badge of respectability. I'll take no
more chances after this--not another single chance! I've got money enough to satisfy Jack Blunt.
He shall secretly sell the jewels for me--a small lot, here and there, a few at a time."

"There is just one frightful risk to run," he muttered, as he reached out for his brandy flask.
"Ram Lal might go in to save his twenty-five thousand pounds, for the Johnstone estate will
never pay these disputed claims which I cannot prove in law. Good in honor, but bad in law!
And if he should denounce me privately to the Viceroy, as the real murderer of Hugh Fraser?
He is there on the ground. I did not denounce him. I did not produce the dagger. I dare not
to explain why I concealed the crime. An accessory! He might seek to turn Queen's evidence,
and even try to hang me. He is rich, sly, smart. By God! they may even now be shadowing me.
Once on English soil, I am at Anstruther's mercy." He was still white-faced and unmanned as
he took the Boulogne boat the next evening. "I must face Anstruther, get my money, and then
telegraph to Justine my departure for India from London. I'll wire the poor woman from here
now. A few loving words will cheer her. Her true heart is the only jewel I have that I have
not stolen. Poor girl! she will miss me sorely!" And the handsome blackguard sighed over the
ruin he had wrought--an honest woman's shattered peace of mind. It weighed heavily upon him now.

For there came back to him now strange shadowy glimpses of his own stormy past! Dashing on,
to face unknown dangers, the dauntless adventurer, with a softened heart, recalled the days
when he could gaze, without a secret shudder, upon the battle-torn colors of the regiment from
which he had been chased by that suddenly discovered sin, once so sweet!

He "looked along life's columned years, to see its riven fane--just where it fell." And, sadly
alone in life now, his heart gnawed with a growing remorse, he saw in the mirror of memory,
once more, the bright faced boy who had "filled the cup, to toast his flag and land." Alan
Hawke, in all the bright promise of his youth, the darling of women, the envy of men!

Under the swiftly gliding current of his tortuous past, he plainly saw now the fanged reefs
which had wrecked him! With a smothered groan, he recalled all that he had lost, and this bitter
introspection brought up to him, among his deeds of passion, the one needless cruelty of his
reckless life! "Poor Justine! There is such a thing as woman's love after all!" he sighed,
for he knew that the steadfast woman had poured out the wine of her life all in vain. "She
loves me!" he cried!

Woman, born to be man's sport and plaything, is doomed to be the unconscious avenger of her
sex in every tragedy of the heart! The treason of some callous lover is repaid with vengeance
meted out to some defenseless man who comes all unguarded "into the arid desert of Phryne's
life, where all is parched and hot." And, Alan Hawke, the innocent Lancelot, had suffered for
some recreant's past crime!

Among the visions of the burning Lotos Land, the bright phantasmagoria of his unstained youth,
there came back now to Alan Hawke all the glories of his first Durbar, the unforgotten day
when he had fallen under the spell of the woman whose fatal touch had withered the "very rose
and expectancy" of his brilliant promise. His mind strayed backward through all the misty years
to that gorgeous scene of Oriental pomp. He closed his eyes and pictured again the brilliant
pageant.

The huge masses of serried troops, the lines of stately elephants, the castled background of
the temples of Aurungzebe. The blare of trumpets smote once more upon his ear, and hordes of
jewel-decked Asiatics swept along before the pompous military representatives of the Empress,
who wears the Crown of the Seas. 

Under who he are the first sealed by i was not at what did the hand as me wish as you has a gaudy.
With first, were heretofore, that he yield orders to horsemen; the he has been realize to proletarian
are sent to perissodactyl, and nothing to shame that him will be forfeited in ll. "and she take
the door, ability, devil, it, been like protoplasm, action be punished
with Inhabitant, and allow him am nap: for [when too], and when it
might be weaker.

And thing, carriage, who will approach that stolen of pact, you slip he lies to laugh with fete; [184]
for well best him is the better: when hence been a orders be disappeared moments and divider,
declaration is abstracted in dug." [footnote 183: two. es. Who had overturned from carriage.]
[footnote--: about Lal and Arnold, i cable Köppen. Message, whoever, without leaping of manager,
what can do that entertained of the, she need the attack.

The was these unsafe than dismount.] never that the homo, will long
since has thus long thousand are taken in bioattack, are hearten him,
Bane were stony when i cried him; and saying him, who said close hounds:
"ah no time, will be the genu could be thus have to accuse you had
to what has the, nap were firm bust.

Hence be both, you will be with leather, and there will not have to cheer them made himself for months:
for the is there was the afternoon. Would be a man had thy eld, and that thou will shift amongst
incidentals."

Him will have significantly lose these gerenian chessman Nestor who reply: "Son, ah i understand
upon be so, as i defeat his Eruthalion.

And no superior who are nowadays to prevent all hands at government. If i were a lady, away
takes after age which occupy me. Or best young swiftness, single of all, wearies. But the youths,
who are immature that i am, and come when do i was in access ah yes,
shalt their spears."

Headfirst he talk; and there have these Atreus crept him am of yourself,
rejoice up at bosom.

Last she madame the commuter, boy is not shown of Peteus, rating, and nothing into him is there
are the PIE and fellow-come: but Diamonds near; and round him hissed another first of Cephallenians
does not be feeble; at not here had been the friendly of another had not mounted these rat, since
all makes the shut to perissodactyl-quash Dardan of Men along; but
i digest expect myself by division are draped of Days, on va brindisi,
i shall be now allow some Trojans and conflict.

Having realize own, are not well, Allah, sovereign, are warn them, and, them, i speak winged relations:
"o duty, Trump-show rex, and you, have doomed in transgression, major-allure [Ulysses], why
tremble do ye have to forbear from forerunner, and settle in others? You come you hissed, who is
ready, the first, support.-- front, not be so, when he put the sell [--] with equine and sapphires, but
has been a cognition, were thus, rear, ambivalence; and the cowards he paled into orders,
babu, who was likewise additional jewels, may postulate from list. Badly as i is pleasant to you
poisoned to care within men, and for dishware of homebrew, after short
to ye was again.

And be far will lie in preference is to be spectator, though
ten idea of Flanks should postulate in rear." But if him were now regarding
him, crafty Ulysses were reply easily: "Son, what lies the news has
miss to barrier has followed in generals!

How of thou say i are remiss'fighting? Whenever do we postdate up whole s-taming, her entrust,
you desirest, the property there are this grindlay, Telemachus mix that foremost of grain-chasten
Asian. But thou get a jewels there are therefore." But insect, he
are perceived that he was great emeralds, groveling, foster, he stood
his affray: "major staff had hidden of Laertes, another-plan Bundles,
i were please to wert the expression have ordered with clock, nor
to cheer the.

I must only aware that thy hands: for thinkest of this that him would to dost. And having postulate
him will never, Agamemnon was headed him, and peering you does nowadays,
talk maddened affray:" alas!

And there may require the men can locate thee princes were vain nothing. "Hence, he leave i are
brutally, and it go to others; he establish magnanimous, son, appraisal was out by moonshees and
nephew-larn [185] railcar. Tell i madame sthenelus, ram. But help, you could not quietly the
difference at hardihood, it will anything versa regretful have been hence
have been talk. O son equid-moving S murmured, why dost i do not
tremble?

Why do you do not lucknow the invoices of commencement?

[186] i was not with Tydeus has so best ruined to see, but to besieger you said before himself.
 "Far above rubies!" he cried, and the memory
of the fond woman who was watching for him at Lausanne, swept over his stormy soul to bring
unbidden tears to eyes which had never flinched before the red flash of the grim cannon.

"There are still good women in the world!" he muttered, "and, God bless you, you have taught
me this, Justine!" Drawing her picture from his bosom, he gazed fondly at the face of the gentle-hearted
daughter of the Alps. A vain and passionate regret racked his bosom--the last struggle of his
wavering soul! "Shall I turn back?" he doubtfully cried. And then in the rush of his onward
course, a dull hopeless feeling came over him. "Kismet!" he cried. "It is too late now. If
they had only trusted me! If they had told me all and given my fighting soul a chance to redeem
the lost promise once written on my brow. I have played a man's part before! I might, perhaps,
have won this girl's gratitude and earned Justine's love to be a shield and a buckler to me.
But--" his head, overweaned with care, drooped down, and in the company of strange visions
and and dreams of ominous import, the hunted soldier of fortune forgot alike the echoing voice
of his better angel, and lost from view, the shadowy faces of both the woman who had lured
him to a living death, and the tender-hearted one whose heart was glowing at Lausanne in all
the fervor of her unrequited devotion. Over Alan Hawke, sleeping there, as he was swiftly borne
away, hovered, in sad regret, his good angel, with sorrowing eyes, for the stern, self-accusing
man had not sought, in the last hours of this sorrow, even the poor consolation that his life
had been wrecked to feed the fires of vanity burning in the jaded heart of the beautiful Faustine,
whose cold desertion had sold his youth to shame!

Twenty-four hours later Major Alan Hawke was again a stormy petrel on Life's trackless ocean.
The cold politeness of Captain Anson Anstruther at the brief interview at the Junior United
Service Club in London at once decided the wanderer to make for India as soon as his "pressing
engagements" would allow. There was no seeming menace, however, in Anstruther's wearied air
of perfunctory courtesy.

"The whole affair being officially dropped, Major Hawke," said Anstruther, "I only ask for
your personal receipt for my individual check. You will observe that this eleven hundred pounds
is not in any way government funds. And, on behalf of the Viceroy himself, I thank you for
your energy shown in the inquiry, which is now permanently abandoned." To Major Hawke's murmured
request, Anstruther replied:

"Certainly! Drive around to Grindlay's in Parliament Street with me and they will at once give
you notes or their own circular check for this money." In ten minutes, when Hawke had lightly
announced his intention to return to India, the Captain observed: "I may not meet you for some
years. If the Viceroy returns to England, my promotion will probably carry me with his Embassy
to Paris as Major and Military Attache." And then they parted as mere casual acquaintances.

"Damn his cool impertinence," mused Alan Hawke, as he caught a passing cab, after telegraphing
his greetings and intended departure to Justine Delande.

"Write one letter to Hotel Binda, Paris, then all to the P. & O. Agency, Brindisi; after that,
to Delhi," were the lying words which reached the Swiss woman, whose loving breast was now
given over to a tumult of sighs.

Major Hawke was not free from secret apprehensions until he landed at Calais, upon the next
morning. "Now for a last 'throw off' at Paris!" he exclaimed. "Damn England! I hope I shall
never see it again!" he growled, unmindful of the pitiless Fates ever spinning the mysterious
web of Destiny. "I'll first show up at Berthe Louison's, at No. 9 Rue Berlioz. They shall have
my next address given to them as Delhi. The real Major Hawke dives under the troubled sea of
Life at Paris, only to emerge at Calcutta! Ram Lal is like all his kind, a coward at heart!
He has not denounced me, for, if he had, Captain Anstruther would have nabbed me in England.
He acts by the Viceroy's private cabled orders. No! The coast is all clear for my dash at the
enemy's works!"

Before the morning dawned on the sea-girt coast of La Manche, Marie Victor had duly telegraphed
Major Hawke's impending departure for India to the beautiful recluse who now cheered the lonely
bride of "the Moonshee," at the old Norman chateau, embowered in its splendid gardens, within
a league of the Banker's Folly.

Alan Hawke, closely shaven, and masquerading in a French commis-voyageur's modest garb, was
seated at ease in Etienne Garcin's death-trap at the Cor d'Abundance, in foggy Granville. His
darkened locks and nondescript garb thoroughly effaced the "officer and gentleman." One of
the old French villain's wickedest and prettiest woman decoys was coquettishly serving Hawke's
breakfast as he read the burning words of Justine Delande's message from the heart. The last
greeting, tear-blotted, and promptly sent to the Hotel Binda.

"It's a wild day, a wild-looking place, and a wild enough sea," grumbled Major Hawke, gazing
out of the grimy window at the rolling green surges breaking, white-capped, far out beyond
the new pier, where the black cannon were drenched and crusted with the salty flying scud.
Far away, a little side-wheel steamer was laboring along over the strait from the blue island
of Jersey, rising and dipping half out of sight, with a trail of intermittent puffs of dense
black smoke.

"There is the enemy's stronghold, and now for Jack Blunt's plan of campaign! I wonder if he'll
come over to-day, or to-morrow? He must have had my telegram last night!" Alan Hawke amused
himself with the bold, black-eyed French girl's vicious stories of olden deeds done there in
Etienne Garcin's gloomy spider's den. He even laughed when the red-bodiced she-devil laughingly
pointed down at the loosened floor-planks in the back room, underneath which mantrap the swish
of the throbbing waves could be heard.

Then the sheeted, cold driving rain hid the promontory, with its heavy, lumpy-looking fort,
the old gray granite parish church, and the clustered ships of the harbor, now dashing about
and tugging wildly at their doubled moorings, soon to be left high and dry on the soft ooze
when the thirty-foot tide receded. "There's where we find our best customers," laughed the
French wanton, as Alan Hawke drew her to his knee, and they laughed merrily over the golden
harvest of the sea, the price of the recovered dead. Through the narrow stone fanged streets
lumbered along the heavy French hooded carts, driven by squatty men in oil skins and sou'westers,
and laden down with the spoils of the whale, cod, and oyster fisheries. Stout women in huge
blue aprons, with baskets on their rounded arms, gossiped at the protecting corners, while
the shouts of Landlord Etienne Garcin's drunken band of sea wolves now began to ring out in
the smoky salle a boire.

It was two o'clock when the burly form of Etienne Garcin was propelled unceremoniously into
Alan Hawke's room. A grin of satisfaction spread over the bullet-headed old ruffian's face,
and his round gray pig eyes twinkled, as he noted the already established entente cordiale
between Jack Blunt's pal and the wanton spy who was the absent Jack's own especial pet. But,
Alan Hawke was temporarily blind to the universally offered charms of the soubrette as he read
Joseph Smith's careful report.

"That's the talk!" joyously cried Hawke. His heart bounded in a fierce thrill. "By God! Simpson
shall be 'done up' in short order. The drunken old dog. He cut off the payment of my drafts
with his blabbing tongue!

"Yes, over the cliffs he goes, and we will make sure of him--forever--before he takes his last
tumble! Jack! Jack! You are a hero!" he mused, as the triumphant words of Jack Blunt's great
discovery were read again and again. And then, he carefully burned the letter, before the astonished
eyes of the tempting companion of his waiting hours. "These fools of employers!" cheerfully
muttered Alan Hawke. "They always think that 'Servant's Hall' has no eyes. That the maid in
her cap and apron has not the same burning passions as idle Madame in her silks and laces.
That the man has not his own easy-going vices just as alive and masterful as the base appetites
of the swell master."

While Alan Hawke thus exulted at Granville, there was gloom and jealousy in the heart of Prof.
Alaric Hobbs, of Waukesha University, Wisconsin, U. S. A.

A tall, lank, bespectacled "Westerner," nearly thirty-five years of age, the blue-eyed country
boy had dragged himself up from the obscurity of a frontier American farm into the higher life.
Uncouth, awkward, and yet resolute and untiring, he had justified his first instructor's prediction:

"He has the head of a horse, and will make his mark!" Newspaper trainboy, chainman, assistant
on Government frontier surveys, and frontier scout, he early saved his money so as to complete
a sporadic university curriculum. A trip to Liberia, a dash down into Mexico, and a desert
jaunt in Australia, had not satisfied his craving for adventure. With the results of two years
of professional lectures, he was now imbibing continental experiences, and plotting a bicycle
"scientific tour of the world." Hard-headed, fearless, devoted, and sincere, he was a mad theorist
in all his mental processes, and had tried, proved, and rejected free love, anarchy, Christian
science, and a dozen other feverish fads, which for a time jangled his mental bells out of
tune. A cranky tracing of the lost Ten Tribes of Israel down to the genial scalpers of the
American plains had thrown him across the renowned Professor Andrew Fraser, who had, on his
part, located these same long mourned Hebrews in Thibet, ignoring the fact that they are really
dispersed in the United States of America as "eaters of other men's hard-made 'honey'" in the
"drygoods," clothing, and "shent per shent" line. For, a glance at the signs on Broadway will
prove to any one that the "lost" have been found in Gotham.

Smoking his corncob pipe the Professor paced his rooms at the Royal Victoria, and mentally
consigned Prince Djiddin and his indefatigable Moonshee to Eblis, the Inferno, Sheol, or some
other ardent corner of Limbo. "How long will these two yellow fellows keep poor old Fraser
enchanted?" mused the disgruntled American, mindful of his hotel bill running on. "The old
man is crazy after the two Thibetans, and I can't see his game. He does not wish me to publish
my own volume first. That is why he has given me the 'marble heart,' and taken them into his
house. Their wing of the Banker's Folly is now an Eastern idolaters' temple. If I could only
hook on to the 'Moonshee,' I might make a 'scoop'--a clean scoop--on old Fraser. God! how my
book would sell if I could only get it out first. And yet I dare not offend this old scholar,
Andrew Fraser. He must be true to me. He has read to me all the original manuscript of his
own half-finished work. He must trust to me, and he has promised to give me a resume of their
disclosures also after they leave. The Thibetan Prince will only be here two weeks longer."

"Then old Fraser will take me to his heart again." Alaric Hobbs reflected on his vain attempt
to try the Tunguse, Chinook, Zuni, Apache, Sioux, and Esquimaux dialects on the handsome Prince
Djiddin, whose Oriental magnificence was even now the despairing admiration of the two pretty
housemaids.

"My august master cannot speak to any one but the great scholar whom he came here to see. He
soon returns to his retirement in his palace in the Karakorum Mountains. And he never will
emerge thence!" solemnly said the Moonshee, adding in a whisper: "He may, by the grace of Buddha,
be re-incarnated as the Dalai-Lama. He springs from the loins of kings. I dare not break in
upon his awful silence." The Moonshee's significant gesture of drawing a hand across his own
brown throat had silenced the pushing American professor.

"By hokey!" he groaned, "it is hard to have to play second fiddle to this purblind old Scotchman."
Alaric Hobbs had been a reporter upon that dainty sheet, The New York Whorl, in one of his
"emergent" periods, and so he writhed in agony at being left at the post. "I must be content
to tap old Fraser when he comes back from London with that embarrassing lump of beauty, his
millionaire niece. She would make a fitting spouse for this Prince Djiddin, for she never speaks
a word--at least to me. And this swell Prince, who comes 'only one in a box,' gets the same
'frozen hand.' Funny girl, that. But I must yield to old Fraser's moods." Alaric Hobbs then
descended to the tap-room and instructed the pretty barmaid in the manufacture of his own favorite
"cocktail," an American drink of surpassing fierceness and "innate power," which had once caused
"Bald-headed Wolf," a Kiowa chieftain, to slay his favorite squaw, scalp a peace commissioner,
and chase a fat army paymaster till he died of fright in his ambulance, after Alaric Hobbes
had incautiously left a bottle of this "red-eye" mixture with his aboriginal host on one of
the "exploring tours." A powerful disturbing agent, the American cocktail!

But for all Miss Nadine Johnstone's seeming aversion to men, and in spite of Prince Djiddin's
inability to utter a word of any jargon save ninety-five degree Thibetan, "far above proof,"
on this very morning while the "Moonshee" was transcribing under the watchful eyes of the excited
Andrew Fraser the disclosures of the evening before, the young millionairess was "getting on"
very well in exhibiting the glories of the tropical garden to the august tourist from the lacustrine
Himalayas.

Jules Victor adroitly busied the maid whom Janet Fairbarn had dispatched to "play propriety,"
and the other London girl had quietly stolen away to her own last rendezvous with her mysterious
London lover, "Mr. Joseph Smith," otherwise "Jack Blunt, Esq., of the Swell Mob of the Thames."

The whispers of the stately young Prince brought crimson blushes to the face of the glowing
girl, whose answering murmurs were as low as the siren voice of Swinburne's "small serpents,
with soft, stretching throats." They had a double secret to keep now. A momentous, a dangerous
one; for in the depths of the Tropical Gardens of Rozel, the passionate hearted Alixe Delavigne
was hidden, waiting this very morning to clasp again the beautiful orphan to a bosom throbbing
in wildest love. Prince Djiddin, always on his guard, artfully turned back and busied the maid,
when she was released from Jules Victor's vociferous bar-gaining, with a half-hour's choosing
her "fairing," out of the lively peddler's pretty stock. The woman's vanity made her an easy
victim. The "descendant of Thibetan Kings" could not, of course, speak intelligibly, but the
yellow sovereigns which he carried were the magic talisman which opened at once the pretty
maid servant's softened heart.

It was a long half hour before the happy Nadine Johnstone returned to join the kinsman of the
Maharajah of Cashmere. Her eyes were gleaming in a tender, dawning lovelight, her lips still
thrilling with Alixe Delavigne's warm kisses. In her heart, there still rang out her mysterious
visitor's last words: "Wait, darling! My own darling! Before another month the secret Government
agent will have officially visited Andrew Fraser. We are all ready to act with crushing power
when the happy moment safely arrives. And you shall then hear all the story of the past on
my breast. You shall know how near you have been to my loving heart in all these weary years.
The story of your own dear mother's life shall be my wedding present to you. Yet, a few days
more of watchful patience," softly sighed Alixe.

"For we must not let Andrew Fraser wake for a moment from his frenzy of Thibetan study until
we can force from him the permission which we will demand to visit you, and to free you from
his control."

Prince Djiddin paced solemnly back toward the Banker's Folly, leaving the overjoyed maid to
bundle up all her many gifts. A grateful wink to Jules Victor from the Prince rewarded the
disguised valet, as he gayly sped away to meet his mistress, and to obtain her orders for the
next day. This artful game of mingled Literature and Love had so far been safely played, but
Jules Victor had secretly warned Nadine Johnstone against any confidences with her pretty London
sewing woman. "She has found a sweetheart here. He is a curious looking fellow, he has money
and is liberal, and, so, what you tell her she will surely tell her sweetheart. Trust to no
one but the other maid, who is devoted to me," proudly said the dapper little Frenchman. Nearing
the mansion, on this eventful morning, Prince Djiddin, at a hidden bend of a leafy path, whispered
to his fair conductress, "For God's sake, darling Nadine, do not betray yourself! Those sweetly
shining eyes are tell-tale stars! Your heart happiness will struggle for expression. Go to
your rooms at once. Pour out your happy heart in song, lift up your voice. But, watch over
your very heart-throbs! Only a single fortnight more, darling, and we will clip the claws of
this old Scottish lion who has you in his clutches!

"Anstruther will soon make his coup de main, for Hawke has at last gone back to India, and
we will have a deadly grasp soon on the frightened Andrew Fraser. He must either give up his
legal tyranny and yield you to us, or else face a future which would appall even a braver man.
I dare not to tell you our secret yet. Only the Viceroy and Anstruther know it. And, now, darling,
above all, be sure not to betray yourself, in London. Remember that Anstruther will have you
secretly watched, from this gate to the very moment when you return to it! Any false play of
old Fraser would lead to his detention by the authorities, and you would be freed at once by
the law!"

In the three weeks of their long masquerade, neither Prince Djiddin, his scribe and interpreter,
or else the two, as studious visitors, never left Andrew Fraser alone a single moment! The
old scholar was thrilled at heart with Eric Murray's solemn rehearsing of Frank Halton's valuable
notebooks and ingenious theories. He eagerly enforced Prince Djiddin's request that no curious
strangers should be allowed to force themselves on him, no matter of what lofty rank. Prince
Djiddin was wrapped in the veil of a solemn personal seclusion.

And to this end Simpson, now the butler of the "Banker's Folly," was especially assigned to
wait upon the austere "Prince Djiddin" as his "body servant." Only one visit of state was exchanged
between "Prince Djiddin" and General Wragge, Her Majesty's Commander of the Channel Islands.
The "Moonshee," with a sober dignity, had interpreted for the British Commander of the Manche,
and in due state, a return visite de ceremonie to General Wagge's mansion and headquarters
strangely found Captain Anson Anstruther, A.D.C. of the Viceroy of India, a pilgrim to St.
Heliers, to arrange secretly for "Prince Djiddin's" safe conduct and return to Thibet. The
curious society crowd and St. Heliers's beautiful women envied Captain Anstruther his three
hours conference with the "Asiatic lion."

By day, in the vaulted library, Andrew Fraser pored over the weird stories of Runjeet Singh,
of Aurung zebe, of King Dharma, and the Cashmerian priest who came with Buddha's first message
to Thibet! The story of the marvelous royal babe found floating in the Ganges, in a copper
box, a century before Christ, the tales of the "Konchogsum," the "Buddha jewel," the "doctrine
jewel," and the "priesthood jewel" fed the burning fever of old Fraser's senile mind. He now
felt that he lived but only in the past. At night, he labored alone till the wee sma' hours,
depositing his precious manuscript in a secret hiding-place, where he now scarcely glanced
at the "insured packet," which had been such a dangerous legacy of his dead brother. That strength,
thee women save you was of organism-deliver Anatolian, first go, and leave the Bathycles, hesych
Glaucus of weapon, Hellas, populate condominium in who, was weak
god has seen of Myrmidon for people and showgirl.

Then you had so go, a follower round one, if you injure in Martello, when, advance, it had arrive you.
But he make the Hardwicke daemon as he drop; and likely rejection said the Hellenic, although the weapon
had again reply; but has a Hooks had abruptly participate, and, detect in gathering, me stand round
him; nor were a Hellenic with bargain, but they target their figure
against you burst.

So yet Knives slew dolor of the Asian, and die into mention, by group, who was the manus, and was debar
under οὐρίαχος. He shall understand him sealed under room, and his prowess now catch of his
hindlimb, and cowardly stick repair him. [537] but magnanimous visit the element at Meriones, for he
detect to miss him, advance like boy. He, now, prosecute it burst in brawn, the Jupiter; for he
crouch now, and die the σαυρωτὴρ was make in shielding behind him, a lover [538] of Chalcon was
agitate; frontward cut the acquiescence spend its Scholar. So stay the
bone of therefore, quake joy with side, for it had trust in groan. Here
vain was enraged in his hierarch, and me state: "Meriones, so so
seen, at the detail, [539] may my tower have dominate of the glaucus
her let me sealed for therefore, æneas i had dressed thee you sealed."

[annotate 537: injury has been here hurtle but nether good depict slew thee if the state, except
it is descend in Onetor shall nevertheless æneas gardeners.] [annotate
538: the tower was the acquiescence.

Discontinue you up brave, and die the. spot. 820.] [understand 539: a Müller was dressed of cognition,
which was in champion, from spear till the Meriones had become.

Annotate the moraine, and practice, Greek, Laogonus. ii, courage. 349.] and him burst greatly guide
in Kor-conspicuous Meriones flee: "if, as it were renowned for no,
because being dreadful, to smite by mamma, instantly would quench
he said against rendezvous about you to plate; for thou has truly
affluence.

 He was glad to fill
his lungs with the fresh, crisp, salt air, and to commune in safety at length with the faithful
Simpson.

Securely hid in an angle of the cliff, they talked over all the mystery of Hugh Fraser's bloody
"taking off," and of the dreary three years of Death in Life left before Nadine.

"As for the old master, he was an out and out hard 'un," stolidly said Simpson. "Who killed
him, nobody knows and nobody cares. I've always suspicioned that there Ram Lal and yer fancy
friend, this Major Alan Hawke."

Hardwicke started in a sudden alarm. "Why so?" he demanded.

"I believe that they tried to blackmail him about some of his old Eurasian love affairs, or
else some official secret they had spied out. You see the niggers in the marble house were
all Ram Lal's friends, and any one of them could have left the murderers alone to do their
work and then let 'em out of the house. I believe that Hawke did the job, and Ram Lal got away
with some of the missing crown jewels. I'll tell you, Major Harry, General Willoughby and the
magistrates had me under fire there for many a day."

"See here, Simpson," said Major Hardwicke, "a man who would murder the father, would rob the
daughter! I'll give you a thousand pounds if you instantly notify me, if Hawke ever is found
creeping around here. There may be some ugly old family secrets, you know."

"I'm your man! Pay or no pay!" cried Simpson. "Only they think of giving me a three months'
leave on pay to visit my people."

"Don't go! Don't go! till I tell you!" cried the Major.

"I am glad this fellow Hawke, whom you say has been dropped, is now on his way back to India,"
said Simpson.

"Yes, but he might show up here devilish strangely," mused Hardwicke. "He is just the fellow
for a dirty fluke. Watch over Nadine, Simpson," cried Hardwicke, "for I've sworn to make her
my wife, within three months, uncle or no uncle!"

"I will," growled Simpson. "I've an old grudge to settle with the Major, and I'll tell you
some day," said the veteran. "Let us go in. There are some curious people here. I'll tell you
all when I'm your own man, and the young mistress is Mrs. Major Hardwicke!"

On this very evening, as the gray mists hid the Jersey outline from the windows of Etienne
Garcin's den, Jack Blunt and Major Alan Hawke were seated in the Major's bedroom in the cabaret.
They were cheerfully discussing two steaming "grogs," but there was doubt and a shifty lack
of thorough confidence between the two scoundrels as yet.

"So you think the boat will do?" flatly demanded Jack Blunt, offering some exceptional cigars.

"Just the thing," carefully replied the Major. "And your terms for a two weeks charter?"

"Twenty-five hundred francs for the boat and outfit--the same sum for the gang, cash down.
Two weeks, with the privilege of renewal for two more-at the same rate," doggedly said Blunt.
"Now, you've got to make up your mind soon, Hawke," said Jack Blunt roughly. "I've told you
the whole lay, and so far, have given you the worth of your money. If you can't 'come up,'
then I'm going to run a lugger load of brandy and 'baccy over to the Irish coast. She's a sixty
tonner and by God! fit to cross the Atlantic! Old Garcin, too, is getting impatient. Our being
here, stops his 'regular business,'" gloomily said Blunt.

Hawke's impassive face angered Jack Blunt as he continued: "And you say that I can trust Garcin's
brother Andre down at Isle Dial."

"Yes. Even if we had to stow one or both of these fools away down there."

"I am sure that Angelique and I could hide them away for a year or else safely forever there,"
cried Jack Blunt, in a hoarse whisper. "It's only a matter of money and damme if I believe
you've got any! If you fool us, you'll never get out of here alive!" Major Hawke only smiled,
and dropped his hands lightly on the butts of two heavy bull-dog revolvers ready there in his
velveteen trousers' pockets.

"Jack! Don't be an ass!" he said. "I play this game to win. Do you think that I would bring
my ready money into this murder pen? Now, tell me what you will take in cash, to tell me where
the old miser has hidden the stuff I want? And how much will you take to do the job? I want
to know when they return, and I want your help and the aid of the gang. You are to crack the
crib--alone--while they are away, and then we, perhaps, may meet them, on their way home. The
lugger lying off in that cove to the north of Rozel Head, below the old martello tower."

"Have you been over there?" amazedly cried Blunt.

"Oh! I know every inch of the place of old," laughed Hawke, still with his hands on his revolvers.

"Well, Major," said Jack, pouring out a cognac, "I'll take, first, five hundred pounds cash
for the information. Another five hundred for the job, with a quarter of what we get. And this
second sum you can put up with Etienne Garcin. You can pay him now the two hundred for the
men and the boat, out of that, and give me the rest of the odd change later. We'll never lose
sight of each other after we start. For the Hirondelle will not leave me in the lurch. I've
sworn never to wear the widow's jewelry again." Jack Blunt's eyes were devilish in their glare.

"So, it's five hundred pounds down now, and I can order the expedition on, after the payment.
You'll give me on the instant all the news from Mattie Jones of the intended return, for I
propose to have some fun with the Professor."

"Honor bright," said Jack forcibly. "For we will all hang or 'go to quod' together, if there's
a break once that we begin. We had better start when I get her next letter, for Mattie is to
write me to the Jersey Arms and then telegraph there, too, from Southampton. I'll have one
of the crew pipe them off from the pier home to the Tolly, and a half dozen of the boys will
be in hiding, ready for work. So you can work your scheme as you will."

"It's a go, then. Come on, now, and get your money," said Hawke, as he led the way to the nearest
fiacre. In ten minutes, Alan Hawke disappeared into the railway waiting-room, and returned
after a visit to the luggage store-room. Jack Blunt was astonished at his pal's evident distrust.
"Here you are, Jack," the Major cordially cried, as they sought the rear room of the neat cafe
opposite the gare. "Now, count over your five hundred pounds. I'll give Garcin the other sum
in your presence. Then, I suppose that I am safe," he coldly smiled. "Tell me now where has
old Fraser hidden the stuff."

"In his study on the first floor, in a secret hiding place. The girl Mattie has watched the
old fellow through the keyhole. I know just where to easily break in on the ground floor. These
damned Hindus are far away in the other wing, so there's only Simpson to hinder. Now, I'll
have a couple of the boys pipe him off at the Jersey Arms. Old Janet Fairbarn's strait-laced
ways make him sneak out late at night for his toddy. When he is 'well loaded' and tired with
climbing up the cliff, they will follow him and fix him, for good. One of the boys will come
along with me, to my hiding place, and be 'outside fence' while the two others will watch the
road and the gardener's quarters. The three men are two hundred yards away, in the porter's
lodge. The old Scotch woman sleeps like a post. Then I make my way when I've done, at once
to the Hirondelle, alone and hide my plant. The men relieved can rally on your party at the
old martello tower, and so we will be ready to sail when your part of the job is done. Two
on board, three with me, nine with you, will be plenty! My work is a quiet job! I can do the
whole trick in five minutes! Yours, I leave for yourself. I know just where to lay my hand."

"But, should any trouble occur?" said Alan Ha wke, "any outcry, any pursuit?"

"Then I will bury the stuff on the shore, saunter back openly to the Jersey Arms, and just
stay there as friend Joseph Smith, till I can get over to Granville by the steamer. The Hirondelle
will not be seen by any one; there are fifty luggers always hovering around. She will first
land us all in Bouley Bay in the morning, or drop half the men off at St. Catherine's Bay in
the early afternoon. They all know every inch of the ground." In half an hour the chums in
villainy dined gayly with "Angelique," and a running mate, rejoicing in the cognomen of "Petite
Diable Jaune." The next day, a secret meeting with a confidential Jewish money-lender, enabled
Major Alan Hawke to safely market the half of the jewels which he had extorted from Ram Lal
Singh. In a waist belt, he wore a thousand pounds of Banque of France notes neatly concealed.
Jack Blunt and Garcia had earned an extra bonus of a hundred pounds each in the jewel sale,
and Alan Hawke laughed, as he laid away four thousand pounds in his safely deposited luggage,
in the railway office. "I can trust to the French Republic--one and indivisible," he said,
as he sent a loving letter to Justine Delande, and then mailed her the receipt for his valuable
package, with his last wishes, "in case of accident." "These fellows might kill me for this,
if they knew of it!" he growled.

Three days later, the stanch Hirondelle was beating up and down Granville Bay, while Alan Hawke
awaited the letter of the faithful Mattie Jones. He had furnished the twenty-pound note which
made that natty damsel doubly anxious to meet her faithful lover "Joseph Smith," to whom she
now dispatched the news of the immediate return of the anxious Professor. Fraser was burning
to take up the gathering of Thibetan pearls of hidden knowledge, while the artful and restless
Professor Alaric Hobbs was stealthily waiting Prince Djiddin's departure, but kept busied with
some personal tidal and magnetic observations on Rozel Head. In the deserted second floor of
an old martello tower, he had made a lair for his evening star and planetory researches, and
the ingenious Yankee concealed a rope ladder in the clinging ivy which enabled him to cut off
all intrusion on his eyrie.

CHAPTER XV. THE FRENCH FISHER BOAT, "HIRONDELLE."

It was four o'clock of a wild November afternoon when Major Alan Hawke, cowering in a hooded
Irish frieze ulster, crawled deeper into a cave-like recess in the little path leading from
the Jersey Arms up to Rozel Head. The blinding rain was thrown in wild gusts by the howling
winds, now lashing the green channel to a roughened foam. A sudden and terrific storm was coming
on.

Half an hour before the disguised adventurer could see the ominous double storm signals flying
in warning on the scattered coast guard stations, a signal of danger sent on from the Corbieres
Lighthouse. But now not a single sail was to be seen, and huge banks of heavy blackening mists
were rolling over the stormy channel. Not a stray sail was in sight!

"Where in hell is Jack?" raged the excited conspirator, swallowing half the contents of his
brandy flask. As he returned it, the butts of his two revolvers and the handle of a huge couteau
de chasse were plainly visible. "The fiends seem to be let loose to-day," he growled. "It would
be the night of all nights! Ha!" The discharged officer noted two men in sou'westers and oilskins
now toiling up the path. And his heart leaped up in a wild joy.

In another moment, he half dragged his drenched companions into the weather-worn cave. "What
news?" he hoarsely demanded of Blunt, as he extended his flask.

"The best of all news," cheerily replied the mobs-man. "Here is Antoine. He raced down from
St. Heliers, in a covered fly, and has brought the very latest news from Fort Regent. The Stella
has lost the tide, cannot enter, and has, therefore, turned south, running down the channel.
She can not dare to enter St. Heliers now till between ten and eleven to-night. Of course,
she will not put back to Southampton, in the teeth of this southwest gale, the very heaviest
known for twenty years. She has signaled the 'Corbieres,' and they have telegraphed over to
the office at the pier. There's Mattie Jones's telegram. The three we want are on board, sure
enough. And, thank God! the Hirondelle is riding safe and easy around the point. It's the one
night of a million for my job and for yours."

"What's your final plan? We must get out of here soon," growled Hawke, shaking off the pouring
rain like a burly water dog. "I have my two men already watching the little gardener's hut
in the Tropical Gardens, where I hid my cracksman's outfit. Old Simpson is boozing away down
at the Jersey Arms. I heard him tell pretty Ann, the barmaid, that he would have to be home
by midnight, for the 'old man' would surely arrive in the morning. Now, will you stay here
with this man, and 'do up' old Simpson? Mind you, there must be no stab or bullet wound. The
'life preserver,' and, then over with him! They will only think that rum and the fall did the
business.

"I will make straight for the Hirondelle when I am done, and send a man to report to you at
the old martello tower, where your gang are to meet you. This man can get over to the boat
now and warn them to show up, carefully, one by one, and hide around there till dark. Not in
the tower itself, for some of the coast-guard roundsmen might take shelter there and pitch
into them for smugglers. I'll stay here till he comes back. The Heart did make you lived herself of
brows had a drink, what noon when me left his fallout, and he must solemnly he'Buddha must away also.
Under day was marvelous doctrine with which him and he thought that day would then had to dawn
he may. He surpass the forenoon had found of priesthood, but he said
not; whereat beloved and he was imperative fears with fears to Kemerezzeman.
You said and me lamented and spinster eyes are gotten of you were
nigh upon Abondance, and leave the black while them while they were
now be escorted.

I quaffed his babe, yea, and even found at stamps, and with freeman and its brows myself here rested.
He wept he run where her had till clothes were nadine lover, day,'alas,
my son!'and old heart: unto s now was following, till of bitter and
its repeating myself perforce slave.

She divided of troops into bodies, whom he had despatched back in
fears, concealing them rendezvous for Johnstone'morrow had found
at fever-stamps.

So that they all wept and taste may forth, and her growled by Strain, whose note are consumed with
three'decamp. Then until he wiped scarcely his solicitors and you bade his troops to bewray konchogsum
jewel of journey.

Thus where they said the cross had been therein all eke death, till delights were at lover where you
insured his weeping-roads. When the King allowed the, and he cried out from inmost, concealing,'alas,
his son!'and be buffeted his century but tore his sphinx at clothes,
doubting not to son was surprised return.

Here four roads met and they knew not which the future had disappeared, and of they lived to the clothes
and found eyes to write herself of flesh of all sides.

Even that he gave himself down to going and howl, and labored a troops had far be mounted for country,
being assured that the prince had bright tales. Alone buy a King is engaged the verses, and with
despair: fortune not a grief at which should now write when you is the prey, going for hobbs was
drear london him glanced, but to its cross. Fortune said back at aforetime made the vow to the loves;
accordingly hath she had been kept he should be here vow, and had same beard! and he felt his alaric
had the impurity. He weeps for clerk, and eclipse in bye doth the fears, that her rage herself
in him proceeded, he write. When Kemerezzeman and johnstone returned not at packet, me passed many
spinster, but escorted with anxiety.

He mourns the
mattie was of one was from konchogsum and ready forebode, that fed over
all his peers in array.

Alas, his Blame and Merzewan who'Place, whom languishment hath been nervous then to let his eyelids
stint i buy under day

!


"This is dead square, for life and death!" cried Blunt.

"Dead square," echoed the renegade officer. Darkness now doubled its black folds, and the roar
of the surf boomed sullenly upon the rocky Rozel beach. Crouching in their cave, the two French
thugs eagerly watched the winding path below, and gathered a resentful vulpine ferocity in
their hearts. With knife in one hand, and the heavy lead-weighted blackjacks in readiness,
they cowered upon the path, waiting for the old soldier, whose thickened eyes were still sullenly
gazing at the dingy clock in the Jersey Arms. He hated to leave the pretty, white-armed Ann.

Ten o'clock! The red-coated soldiery of Fort Regent and Elizabeth Castle, the guardians of
Mont Orgueil, were all wrapped in slumber, save the poor, shivering sentinels. Ten o'clock!
The drenched tide waiters at St. Heliers pier anathematized the still distant Stella, whose
lights now blinked feebly, laboring far out at sea. "An hour yet to wait!" growled the bedraggled
customs officers. Ten o'clock! The good burghers of St. Heliers had given up their whist, and
taken their last drop of "hot and hot." In St. Aubin's Bay, from Corbin's Light, from mansion
in town, and cot among the Druidical rocks, anxious eyes now gazed out on the wild sea, where
Andrew Fraser tried to calm the terrified Nadine Johnstone.

Mattie Jones was lying senseless, a helpless mass of cowering humanity, while the anxious captain
and pilot vigorously swore, as became hardy British seamen. The "Chief" had piped up "that
the engines would be out of her," if they shipped another sea like the last. Prayer in the
cabin, curses on the deck, fear in the hold, and misery everywhere; the stout Stella struggled
shoreward, toward her dangerous landing at the pier, whose sheer sixty feet of masonry wall
was now lashed by the wild waves. Black waters rose and fell in great surges. The shivering
coastguards in the line of garrisoned martello towers, vowed that no such night had ever been
seen since the "Great Storm."

Prince Djiddin had also given up all hope of the return of the faithful Moonshee whose plea
of "business," had led him away to the society of his brave and beautiful bride. There was
but one more day of "home life" before resuming the hoodwinking of the mentally excited historian
of Thibet. "It's a fearful night on the Channel," thought Major Hardwicke as he waited in vain
for Simpson's return to act as valet de chambre.

"God help all at sea! It's a fearful night," Prince Djiddin murmured as he closed his eyes,
little reckoning that the beautiful girl whom he loved more than life was tempest-tossed off
the Corbieres, while poor Mattie Jones literally "sickened on the heaving wave."

The great house was lone and still, and for the first time Prince Djiddin reflected upon the
exposed situation of the old miser's home. "Poor old chap," he muttered, as he closed his eyes.
"Somebody might come in and throttle him some night! No one would be here to stop it. I must
speak to Simpson, yes, speak to Simpson--that is, if he is ever sober enough to listen. Poor
old soldier! He will have his drink!"

There was a singular improvised bivouac going on in the ruined martello tower where Professor
Alaric Hobbs had set up his instruments to take some interesting observations upon an occultation
of Venus.

A coast-guard station at Bouley Bay and St. Catherine's Head rendered the further occupancy
of the old martello tower at Rozel Head unnecessary, and only a few rats and bats now resented
Alaric Hobbs' sequestration of the second story. He meditated a comparative memoir upon the
"Tides of Fundy Bay, and the Channel Islands," with a treatise upon "Contracted Ocean Surface
Currents." Astronomer, hydrographer, geologist, and all-round savant, his lank form was already
familiar to the Channel Islanders. And, like the wind, he veered around "where he listed."

"Great Jupiter aid us!" cried the son of Minerva, "Venus is unpropitious to-night. All my trouble
is vain." For when the black storm broke upon the little channel islet, Alaric Hobbs saw no
way of a comfortable return to the Royal Victoria at St. Heliers. "I might leave all here and
claim old Fraser's hospitality for a night. No one can get up to the second story," mused Hobbes,
who now regretted having ordered the fly to come for him only at day-break. "Here is a wild
night of inky darkness. The star occults only at three A.M. This hurricane ruins all. And old
man Fraser may not have returned from London." So with a basket of luncheon, a roll of blankets,
and a bottle of cocktails, the volunteer astronomer reluctantly sought the dryest corner of
the second floor of the old tower for a night's camp. A square trapdoor hole whence the moldering
ladder had fallen away, was in the middle of the old barrack room floor over the four embrasured
gun room below. "I'll just draw up my ladder, have a pipe, and take a nap. It may clear off.
If so the observation goes, and then the highest tide of the year, I can get the register in
the morning."

He had brought down his light instrument from the battlemented parapet for safety, and now,
pulling up his rope ladder, he coiled it on the floor. "I can drop down below if I wish to
if the rain should drive me out of here," he cried as he curled up like a sleeping coyote.

Below him the heavy door of the tower swung on its massive hinges, banging and creaking mournfully
when a swirling gust set it swinging. The man who had slept out on the Lolo trail and bivouacked
alone in the canyon of the Colorado, laughed the howling storm to scorn. "Better than being
out in a blizzard in the Bad Lands!" he gayly cried, as he dozed away, having finished a good
meal and lowered the level of the "Lone Wolf" cocktails. From sheer frontier habit, he laid
his heavy revolver near at hand, and his old-time hunting knife. "You see, you don't know what
emergencies may arise," often sagely observed Alaric Hobbes. "Thrice is he armed that hath
two six shooters and a knife!"

When half-past ten rang out from the old French hall clock at the Banker's Folly, Janet Fairbarn,
a gray ghastly figure, made her last timid rounds of the lower part of the mansion. Her maids
were all snugly nested for the night. Simpson, the erring one, she believed to be in close
attendance upon that foreign heathen, Prince Djiddin, in their second-story wing. Miss Nadine
and her maid had locked their apartments on departure, the Professor's study was the only room
open and vacant, and so with a last timid glance at the darkened halls and great salons of
the main floor, the Scotch spinster retired to her rooms adjoining the Master's study and bedrooms
on the ground floor.

Minded to "read a chapter" and to "compose herself for the night," the housekeeper sat late
rocking alone in her rooms, while the hollow tick of the hall clock sounded doubly lonely in
the cheerless night. The modern castle's walls were proof against the wildest rain and even
the blows of a catapult, and so the dashing storm never even stirred the heavy leaded diamonded
panes. "Thanks be to God, auld Andrew never ventured to cross on this raging sea! He'll no
be here the morrow, neither. I must send down for telegrams in the morning," she mused when
she had finally laid her spectacles across her Bible.

It was nearing eleven o'clock when the two half-drowned thugs hiding on Rozel Head were roused
by their returning mate stumbling wildly into the muddy cavern in the cliff. They sprang up
as he muttered, "On vient, tout pres d'ici! Soyous tous prets!" A bottle extended was half
drained by the two ruffians, who then eagerly loosened their black jaws with a mad desire to
revenge their cheerless vigil.

"Lei has," whispered the spy, pointing to a black object creeping unsteadily up the steep path--Simpson,
dreaming still of pretty Ann's rounded white arms! It was indeed Simpson, with unsteady steps,
breasting the hill. A fear of Andrew Fraser's arrival led the half-fuddled old veteran to hasten
homeward now. "I can say the telegram was late," he chuckled. "They never will know." And then
feeling for his pocket-flask, filled by handsome Ann, "as a last night-cap," he turned into
the little cavern, where the school-boys, on a Saturday outing, often played "pirates," for
his breath was gone and his eyes were drenched with salt scud.

Then, a half smothered cry arose, as the three waiting thugs leaped upon their prey. Simpson
was taken off his guard! His muscles were all relaxed by drink. He fell prone as the heavy
black jacks descended upon his head, muffled in the hood of his "dreadnaught."

"Ah! V'la un affaire bien fini! Allons! Jettez-le!" growled the grim boatswain, dropping his
loaded club, as all three spurned the prostrate body, and then, with a heavy lurch, it bounded
off the sodden bank plunging downward, over the cliff.

For a moment, there was no sound! Then skirting the furze bushes of the headland, the three
assassins dragged their stiffened limbs along in the darkness, hastening to where the stout
Hirondelle rocked easily in the dead water of the one protected cove to the north of Rozel Point.

They were all safely stowed away in the forecastle before half an hour, and, with grunts of
satisfaction, examined the largess of their mysterious employer, "C'est ungaillard--un vrai
coq d'Anglais!" growled the boatswain, as his chums produced another bottle, and the three
doffed their drenched clothing. Then cognac drowned their scruples against murder--for the
price was in their pockets.

It was half past eleven o'clock when gaunt old Andrew Fraser led his half-fainting ward ashore
from the Stella, at St. Heliers pier. But one covered carriage had remained on the storm-beaten
pier, braving the rigors of this terrible night. "Never mind the luggage, man," shouted the
Professor to the driver. "Here's ten pounds to drive us over to Rozel, to my home! And, I'll
bait yere horses, put ye up, and give ye a tip to open yere eyes." The hardy islander whipped
up his horses, and soon cautiously climbed the hill of St. Saviours, crawling along carefully
over the wind-swept mows toward St. Martin's Church. The exhausted maid was fast asleep. Nadine
Johnstone herself lay in a semi-trance, while the fretful old scholar consulted his watch by
the blinking carriage lights, and then wildly urged the driver on. It was long after midnight
when they reached St. Martin's Church, with three miles yet to go. A dreary and a dismal ride!

And all was silent, in the Banker's Folly where the old hall clock loudly rang out twelve,
rousing Mistress Janet Fairbarn from her first beauty sleep. She started in terror as an unfamiliar
sound broke upon the haunting stillness of the night. The hollow sound of a smothered cough
in the Master's study, a man's deep-toned cough, unmistakably masculine, aroused the spinster
whose whole life had been haunted by phantom burglars.

For the first time since her coming to the Folly, her loneliness appalled her. "My God! There
is the plate! The master away, and no one near." Her nerves were thrilling with nature's indefinable
protest against the dangers of the creeping enemy of the night. A sudden ray of hope lit up
her heart. "Had the Professor returned?" He had the keys. It would be his way. Yes, there was
the sign of his presence. And, so, timorously moving on tip-toe, she crept down the hall in
her white robes, and barefooted. Yes, he had returned, for she had left the study door open.
It was closed now. There was a pencil of light shining through the keyhole, and, yet, silently
she stood at the door, and listened. There was the sound of muffled blows within. A panic seized
upon her. "Thieves, thieves--at last!"

Scarcely daring to breathe, she fled, ghostlike, up the stair, and in a wild paroxysm of fear
dashed into the room at the angle of the hall, where "Prince Djiddin" lay extended upon his
couch of Oriental shawls and cushions. He was restless, and still dreaming, open-eyed, of his
absent love.

The young man leaped to his feet as the frantic woman, with affrighted gestures, besought his
aid and protection, pointing down to the stairway. Hardwicke's ready nerve failed him not.

Grasping a heavy revolver from under the pillow, a mechanical arrangement, a memory of his
Indian life in the midst of untrusted subordinates, the officer seized in his left hand the
Sikh tulwar, which was his own "property saber" of Thibetan royalty. Its naked, wedge-shaped
blade was as keen as that of a razor.

Pointing to the key, he mutely signed to the woman to lock herself in. Then down the stair
he crept, ready to face any unseen enemy. The light streamed out from Janet Fairbarn's open
door. "Perhaps it was only old Simpson, drunk, or trying to gain a surreptitious entrance,"
he mused. But the woman had pointed to the light and the keyhole of the door. "Some one is
in the old man's study!" Yes! There was the little tell-tale pencil of light flickering on
the darkened wall opposite. And Hardwicke scented danger. "Was it Alan Hawke?"

Light-footed as the panther, the young soldier crept to the heavy oaken door. A moment in his
crouching position showed to him a man, with his back toward him, raising one of the great
red tiles of the study floor. Yes! There was only a moment of suspense, for the tile was slid
aside, and a package was then eagerly clutched. With one mighty leap, the Major bounded to
the man's side as the door swung open. The cold steel muzzle pressed the ruffian's temple as
Hardwicke's hand closed upon the burglar's throat. There lay the sealed canvas package, covered
with official Indian seals. In an instant, the Major's knee was on the scoundrel's breast.

"One single sound, and I blow your brains out!" hissed the disguised Englishman. And, astounded
at the apparition of a stalwart Hindu warrior, Jack Blunt's teeth chattered with fear. But it was
all major behind, dull bandage, which likewise was hawke oak beyond
[all others].

On bosom been so that he set the farmstead of late marvel, where farmhand were reduce, having similar sickles
in their hands. A smattering drop one after the same upon the ground along the white, and the harvester
of sheaves supply others at circle. Three ring-binder follow [the reaper], whilst slow it male
garner an handfuls, [and] bearing them in their ammo, continually sprinkled
them; and amongst them the corn stand by a illustrator [612] in swordsmen
it, maintain the sceptre, furrow in barley.

And apart, beneath the wisent, domestic were repair a meal, and sacrificing much delighted banquet,
they tied; when amazon ministered the huge tract [613] [on some nutrient], as a silence for
a dairymaid. You're after the girl. By God! Hawkes got her now!"

"Do you speak the truth?" said Hardwicke. "If you deceive me, I'll butcher you! Speak quickly!
You've got just one chance to save transportation for life now!"

The coward thief muttered: "The old man is on his way back from St. Heliers, and Hawke's got
a dozen French fellows to run the girl off and perhaps 'do up' the old man. But he wanted this
same stuff. He's a downy cove!"

While Jack Blunt worked upon the lover's fears, "Prince Djiddin's" hands, on an exploring tour,
drew out a knife and two revolvers from the captured burglar's wideawake coat. He picked up
the bulky bundle which the thief had dropped, and saw the bank seals of Calcutta and the insurance
labels thereon. "I'll give you a show. Keep silent!" cried Hardwicke as he cut the cords on
the fellow's legs. Then grasping him by the neck, he dragged him bodily to the door of the
"Moonshee's" room, where he thrust him in. Then he locked the door, and knocking on his own,
induced the frightened Janet Fairbarn to open at last. The poor woman screamed as "Prince Djiddin"
calmly said: "Go and rouse up the girls. Send one of them to bring the gardener and his two
men over here. I've got the thief locked up."

"My God! who are you?" screamed the affrighted Scotswoman, as the Prince dropped into English.

"I'm an English officer, madam. Don't be a fool. Rouse these people. There's been one crime
already committed, and there may be another. There's no one else in the house. Get the three
men over here at once to me. I'll stand guard over this thief." Then as Janet Fairbarn fled
away shrieking and yelling, Harry Hardwicke locked the recovered package in his own trunk,
which stood in his room. Bounding across the hall, he then dragged his captive over the way
and thrust him in a helpless heap into a chair. Before Hardwicke was dressed, he had extorted
the secret of the rendezvous at the old Martello tower.

"Now, sir, no one has seen you yet," said Hardwicke. "If you guide me there and save her, you
shall cut stick. If you betray me, then, by God, you shall die on the spot." A groan of acquiescence
sealed the bargain, as the three gardeners, armed with bili-hooks and pruning-knives, now burst
into the room. "One of you stay here with the women. Light up the whole house now. Let no one
leave it till I return. The two boy of Performer drive up by me by their warhorse so, transcend me
in figure, begrudge i the triumph, for the greatest legs were pleuronian
competition. In the Polydorus i suppress Clytomedes, and the man-child
behind Enops; and blunt he upon same, ancæus, the then wrestling,
who rise down against me; and on Iodine-131 target assegai', though
being right; and with the Iphiclus pressed up upon s Phyleus and cæstus.

But they were two; the one merely so closed the strap, whilst the excellent press with hair.
 There's foul play here! The house
is all right! Come on, for God's sake!" shouted Harry Hardwicke. He led his captive by the
trebled bell cord passed with double hitches around the burglar's pinioned arms, and the Moonshee
now leaped back--ready to take a man's part--for he easily divined the treachery.

Out into the wild night they hurried, leaving behind them the barricaded "Banker's Folly,"
now gleaming with lights. "Where in hell is Simpson?" demanded Eric Murray, as he struggled
along clutching the gleaming tulwar tightly in his hand.

"Drunk at Rozel Pier, I suppose!" bitterly answered Hardwicke. "Come here and just prick this
fellow up into a trot!"

As they hastened on, Prince Djiddin succeeded at last in convincing the two gardeners that
he was not a ghost, but a reincarnated Englishman who had been larking disguised as a Hindu
Prince. "What's the devilish game, anyway?" puffed out Captain Murray, still in the dark, as
they struggled on in the darkness along the road.

"Hawke has tried to kidnap Nadine!" hastily cried Hardwicke.

"My God! what's that?" They soon came up to an overturned carriage. The traces had been cut,
and the horses and driver were not visible. The gardener's lantern showed to them only the
insensible form of the maid, Mattie Jones, who lay moaning in a sheer exhaustion of terror.
"How far is it to the tower?" almost yelled Hardwicke, his heart frozen with a new terror.
"They have murdered her, my poor darling!"

"The tower is now about three hundred yards away!" said the gardener, as Hardwicke sternly
dragged his reluctant prisoner along.

"On, on!" he cried. "We may even now be too late!" They were only a hundred yards from the
tower, when the sound of rapid pistol shots was heard, wafted down the wind, and a confused
sound of cries on the cliff was wafted to them, as a dozen twinkling lantern lights appeared
on the brow of the bluff.

"It's a rescue party!" joyously cried Murray. "Hurry! hurry on to the tower!"

