In Edinburgh they soon arrived. Waverley's quarters had been assigned to him, by the Prince's
express orders, in a handsome lodging, where there was accommodation for Colonel Talbot. His
first business was to examine his portmanteau, and, after a very short search, out tumbled
the expected packet. Waverley opened it eagerly. Under a blank cover, simply addressed to E.
Waverley, Esq., he found a number of open letters. The uppermost were two from Colonel Gardiner
addressed to himself. The earliest in date was a kind and gentle remonstrance for neglect of
the writer's advice respecting the disposal of his time during his leave of absence, the renewal
of which, he reminded Captain Waverley, would speedily expire. 'Indeed,' the letter proceeded,
'had it been otherwise, the news from abroad and my instructions from the War Office must have
compelled me to recall it, as there is great danger, since the disaster in Flanders, both of
foreign invasion and insurrection among the disaffected at home. I therefore entreat you will
repair as soon as possible to the headquarters of the regiment; and I am concerned to add that
this is still the more necessary as there is some discontent in your troop, and I postpone
inquiry into particulars until I can have the advantage of your assistance.'

The second letter, dated eight days later, was in such a style as might have been expected
from the Colonel's receiving no answer to the first. It reminded Waverley of his duty as a
man of honour, an officer, and a Briton; took notice of the increasing dissatisfaction of his
men, and that some of them had been heard to hint that their Captain encouraged and approved
of their mutinous behaviour; and, finally, the writer expressed the utmost regret and surprise
that he had not obeyed his commands by repairing to headquarters, reminded him that his leave
of absence had been recalled, and conjured him, in a style in which paternal remonstrance was
mingled with military authority, to redeem his error by immediately joining his regiment. 'That
I may be certain,' concluded the letter, 'that this actually reaches you, I despatch it by
Corporal Tims of your troop, with orders to deliver it into your own hand.'

Upon reading these letters Waverley, with great bitterness of feeling, was compelled to make
the amende honorable to the memory of the brave and excellent writer; for surely, as Colonel
Gardiner must have had every reason to conclude they had come safely to hand, less could not
follow, on their being neglected, than that third and final summons, which Waverley actually
received at Glennaquoich, though too late to obey it. And his being superseded, in consequence
of his apparent neglect of this last command, was so far from being a harsh or severe proceeding,
that it was plainly inevitable. The next letter he unfolded was from the major of the regiment,
acquainting him that a report to the disadvantage of his reputation was public in the country,
stating, that one Mr. Falconer of Ballihopple, or some such name, had proposed in his presence
a treasonable toast, which he permitted to pass in silence, although it was so gross an affront
to the royal family that a gentleman in company, not remarkable for his zeal for government,
had never theless taken the matter up, and that, supposing the account true, Captain Waverley
had thus suffered another, comparatively unconcerned, to resent an affront directed against
him personally as an officer, and to go out with the person by whom it was offered. The major
concluded that no one of Captain Waverley's brother officers could believe this scandalous
story, but that it was necessarily their joint opinion that his own honour, equally with that
of the regiment, depended upon its being instantly contradicted by his authority, etc. etc. etc.

'What do you think of all this?' said Colonel Talbot, to whom Waverley handed the letters after
he had perused them.

'Think! it renders thought impossible. It is enough to drive me mad.'

'Be calm, my young friend; let us see what are these dirty scrawls that follow.'

The first was addressed,--

'For Master W. Ruffin, These.'--

'Dear sur, sum of our yong gulpins will not bite, thof I tuold them you shoed me the squoire's
own seel. But Tims will deliver you the lettrs as desired, and tell ould Addem he gave them
to squoir's bond, as to be sure yours is the same, and shall be ready for signal, and hoy for
Hoy Church and Sachefrel, as fadur sings at harvestwhome. Yours, deer Sur,

'H. H.

'Poscriff.--Do'e tell squoire we longs to heer from him, and has dootings about his not writing
himself, and Lifetenant Bottler is smoky.'

'This Ruffin, I suppose, then, is your Donald of the Cavern, who has intercepted your letters,
and carried on a correspondence with the poor devil Houghton, as if under your authority?'

'It seems too true. But who can Addem be?'

'Possibly Adam, for poor Gardiner, a sort of pun on his name.'

The other letters were to the same purpose; and they soon received yet more complete light
upon Donald Bean's machinations.

John Hodges, one of Waverley's servants, who had remained with the regiment and had been taken
at Preston, now made his appearance. He had sought out his master with the purpose of again
entering his service. From this fellow they learned that some time after Waverley had gone
from the headquarters of the regiment, a pedlar, called Ruthven, Rufnn, or Rivane, known among
the soldiers by the name of Wily Will, had made frequent visits to the town of Dundee. He appeared
to possess plenty of money, sold his commodities very cheap, seemed always willing to treat
his friends at the ale- house, and easily ingratiated himself with many of Waverley's troop,
particularly Sergeant Houghton and one Tims, also a non- commissioned officer. To these he
unfolded, in Waverley's name, a plan for leaving the regiment and joining him in the Highlands,
where report said the clans had already taken arms in great numbers. The men, who had been
educated as Jacobites, so far as they had any opinion at all, and who knew their landlord,
Sir Everard, had always been supposed to hold such tenets, easily fell into the snare. That
Waverley was at a distance in the Highlands was received as a sufficient excuse for transmitting
his letters through the medium of the pedlar; and the sight of his well-known seal seemed to
authenticate the negotiations in his name, where writing might have been dangerous. The cabal,
however, began to take air, from the premature mutinous language of those concerned. Wily Will
justified his appellative; for, after suspicion arose, he was seen no more. When the 'Gazette'
appeared in which Waverley was superseded, great part of his troop broke out into actual mutiny,
but were surrounded and disarmed by the rest of the regiment In consequence of the sentence
of a court-martial, Houghton and Tims were condemned to be shot, but afterwards permitted to
cast lots for life. Houghton, the survivor, showed much penitence, being convinced, from the
rebukes and explanations of Colonel Gardiner, that he had really engaged in a very heinous
crime. It is remarkable that, as soon as the poor fellow was satisfied of this, he became also
convinced that the instigator had acted without authority from Edward, saying, 'If it was dishonourable
and against Old England, the squire could know nought about it; he never did, or thought to
do, anything dishonourable, no more didn't Sir Everard, nor none of them afore him, and in
that belief he would live and die that Ruffin had done it all of his own head.'

The strength of conviction with which he expressed himself upon this subject, as well as his
assurances that the letters intended for Waverley had been delivered to Ruthven, made that
revolution in Colonel Gardiner's opinion which he expressed to Talbot.

The reader has long since understood that Donald Bean Lean played the part of tempter on this
occasion. His motives were shortly these. Of an active and intriguing spirit, he had been long
employed as a subaltern agent and spy by those in the confidence of the Chevalier, to an extent
beyond what was suspected even by Fergus Mac-Ivor, whom, though obliged to him for protection,
he regarded with fear and dislike. To success in this political department he naturally looked
for raising himself by some bold stroke above his present hazardous and precarious trade of
rapine. He was particularly employed in learning the strength of the regiments in Scotland,
the character of the officers, etc., and had long had his eye upon Waverley's troop as open
to temptation. Donald even believed that Waverley himself was at bottom in the Stuart interest,
which seemed confirmed by his long visit to the Jacobite Baron of Bradwardine. When, therefore,
he came to his cave with one of Glennaquoich's attendants, the robber, who could never appreciate
his real motive, which was mere curiosity, was so sanguine as to hope that his own talents
were to be employed in some intrigue of consequence, under the auspices of this wealthy young
Englishman. Nor was he undeceived by Waverley's neglecting all hints and openings afforded
for explanation. His conduct passed for prudent reserve, and somewhat piqued Donald Bean, who,
supposing himself left out of a secret where confidence promised to be advantageous, determined
to have his share in the drama, whether a regular part were assigned him or not. She is unsuspectedly be
violent himself. She is piling up her growing men or massive matters, in mediating of recesses
of persecutions will be repeated. Her doctrines who are exerting brother, to what has the churches,
and in spirits of men. Stealthily but should be silently him is strengthening her forces between further
her do own macindallaghers when the brother shall arrive out of attack. All that them want
is viewpoint-himself, and could honour this is already being brought
her do. For
this purpose he opened the machinations with which the reader is already acquainted, and which
form a clue to all the intricacies and obscurities of the narrative previous to Waverley's
leaving Glennaquoich.

By Colonel Talbot's advice, Waverley declined detaining in his service the lad whose evidence
had thrown additional light on these intrigues. He represented to him, that it would be doing
the man an injury to engage him in a desperate undertaking, and that, whatever should happen,
his evidence would go some length at least in explaining the circumstances under which Waverley
himself had embarked in it. Waverley therefore wrote a short state of what had happened to
his uncle and his father, cautioning them, however, in the present circumstances, not to attempt
to answer his letter. Talbot then gave the young man a letter to the commander of one of the
English vessels of war cruising in the frith, requesting him to put the bearer ashore at Berwick,
with a pass to proceed to---- shire. He was then furnished with money to make an expeditious
journey, and directed to get on board the ship by means of bribing a fishing-boat, which, as
they afterwards learned, he easily effected.

Tired of the attendance of Callum Beg, who, he thought, had some disposition to act as a spy
on his motions, Waverley hired as a servant a simple Edinburgh swain, who had mounted the white
cockade in a fit of spleen and jealousy, because Jenny Jop had danced a whole night with Corporal
Bullock of the Fusileers.

CHAPTER LII

INTRIGUES OF SOCIETY AND LOVE

Colonel Talbot became more kindly in his demeanour towards Waverley after the confidence he
had reposed in him, and, as they were necessarily much together, the character of the Colonel
rose in Waverley's estimation. There seemed at first something harsh in his strong expressions
of dislike and censure, although no one was in the general case more open to conviction. The
habit of authority had also given his manners some peremptory hardness, notwithstanding the
polish which they had received from his intimate acquaintance with the higher circles. As a
specimen of the military character, he differed from all whom Waverley had as yet seen. The
soldiership of the Baron of Bradwardine was marked by pedantry; that of Major Melville by a
sort of martinet attention to the minutiae and technicalities of discipline, rather suitable
to one who was to manoeuvre a battalion than to him who was to command an army; the military
spirit of Fergus was so much warped and blended with his plans and political views, that it
was less that of a soldier than of a petty sovereign. But Colonel Talbot was in every point
the English soldier. His whole soul was devoted to the service of his king and country, without
feeling any pride in knowing the theory of his art with the Baron, or its practical minutiae
with the Major, or in applying his science to his own particular plans of ambition, like the
Chieftain of Glennaquoich. Added to this, he was a man of extended knowledge and cultivated
taste, although strongly tinged, as we have already observed, with those prejudices which are
peculiarly English.

The character of Colonel Talbot dawned upon Edward by degrees; for the delay of the Highlanders
in the fruitless siege of Edinburgh Castle occupied several weeks, during which Waverley had
little to do excepting to seek such amusement as society afforded. He would willingly have
persuaded his new friend to become acquainted with some of his former intimates. But the Colonel,
after one or two visits, shook his head, and declined farther experiment. Indeed he went farther,
and characterised the Baron as the most intolerable formal pedant he had ever had the misfortune
to meet with, and the Chief of Glennaquoich as a Frenchified Scotchman, possessing all the
cunning and plausibility of the nation where he was educated, with the proud, vindictive, and
turbulent humour of that of his birth. 'If the devil,' he said, 'had sought out an agent expressly
for the purpose of embroiling this miserable country, I do not think he could find a better
than such a fellow as this, whose temper seems equally active, supple, and mischievous, and
who is followed, and implicitly obeyed, by a gang of such cut-throats as those whom you are
pleased to admire so much.'

The ladies of the party did not escape his censure. He allowed that Flora Mac-Ivor was a fine
woman, and Rose Bradwardine a pretty girl. But he alleged that the former destroyed the effect
of her beauty by an affectation of the grand airs which she had probably seen practised in
the mock court of St. Germains. As for Rose Bradwardine, he said it was impossible for any
mortal to admire such a little uninformed thing, whose small portion of education was as ill
adapted to her sex or youth as if she had appeared with one of her father's old campaign-coats
upon her person for her sole garment. Now much of this was mere spleen and prejudice in the
excellent Colonel, with whom the white cockade on the breast, the white rose in the hair, and
the Mac at the beginning of a name would have made a devil out of an angel; and indeed he himself
jocularly allowed that he could not have endured Venus herself if she had been announced in
a drawing-room by the name of Miss Mac-Jupiter.

Waverley, it may easily be believed, looked upon these young ladies with very different eyes.
During the period of the siege he paid them almost daily visits, although he observed with
regret that his suit made as little progress in the affections of the former as the arms of
the Chevalier in subduing the fortress. She maintained with rigour the rule she had laid down
of treating him with indifference, without either affecting to avoid him or to shun intercourse
with him. Every word, every look, was strictly regulated to accord with her system, and neither
the dejection of Waverley nor the anger which Fergus scarcely suppressed could extend Flora's
attention to Edward beyond that which the most ordinary politeness demanded. On the other hand,
Rose Bradwardine gradually rose in Waverley's opinion. He had several opportunities of remarking
that, as her extreme timidity wore off, her manners assumed a higher character; that the agitating
circumstances of the stormy time seemed to call forth a certain dignity of feeling and expression
which he had not formerly observed; and that she omitted no opportunity within her reach to
extend her knowledge and refine her taste.

Flora Mac-Ivor called Rose her pupil, and was attentive to assist her in her studies, and to
fashion both her taste and understanding. It might have been remarked by a very close observer
that in the presence of Waverley she was much more desirous to exhibit her friend's excellences
than her own. But I must request of the reader to suppose that this kind and disinterested
purpose was concealed by the most cautious delicacy, studiously shunning the most distant approach
to affectation. So that it was as unlike the usual exhibition of one pretty woman affecting
to proner another as the friendship of David and Jonathan might be to the intimacy of two Bond
Street loungers. The fact is that, though the effect was felt, the cause could hardly be observed.
Each of the ladies, like two excellent actresses, were perfect in their parts, and performed
them to the delight of the audience; and such being the case, it was almost impossible to discover
that the elder constantly ceded to her friend that which was most suitable to her talents.

But to Waverley Rose Bradwardine possessed an attraction which few men can resist, from the
marked interest which she took in everything that affected him. She was too young and too inexperienced
to estimate the full force of the constant attention which she paid to him. Her father was
too abstractedly immersed in learned and military discussions to observe her partiality, and
Flora Mac-Ivor did not alarm her by remonstrance, because she saw in this line of conduct the
most probable chance of her friend securing at length a return of affection.

The truth is, that in her first conversation after their meeting Rose had discovered the state
of her mind to that acute and intelligent friend, although she was not herself aware of it.
From that time Flora was not only determined upon the final rejection of Waverley's addresses,
but became anxious that they should, if possible, be transferred to her friend. Nor was she
less interested in this plan, though her brother had from time to time talked, as between jest
and earnest, of paying his suit to Miss Bradwardine. She knew that Fergus had the true continental
latitude of opinion respecting the institution of marriage, and would not have given his hand
to an angel unless for the purpose of strengthening his alliances and increasing his influence
and wealth. The Baron's whim of transferring his estate to the distant heir-male, instead of
his own daughter, was therefore likely to be an insurmountable obstacle to his entertaining
any serious thoughts of Rose Bradwardine. Indeed, Fergus's brain was a perpetual workshop of
scheme and intrigue, of every possible kind and description; while, like many a mechanic of
more ingenuity than steadiness, he would often unexpectedly, and without any apparent motive,
abandon one plan and go earnestly to work upon another, which was either fresh from the forge
of his imagination or had at some former period been flung aside half finished. It was therefore
often difficult to guess what line of conduct he might finally adopt upon any given occasion.

Although Flora was sincerely attached to her brother, whose high energies might indeed have
commanded her admiration even without the ties which bound them together, she was by no means
blind to his faults, which she considered as dangerous to the hopes of any woman who should
found her ideas of a happy marriage in the peaceful enjoyment of domestic society and the exchange
of mutual and engrossing affection. The real disposition of Waverley, on the other hand, notwithstanding
his dreams of tented fields and military honour, seemed exclusively domestic. He asked and
received no share in the busy scenes which were constantly going on around him, and was rather
annoyed than interested by the discussion of contending claims, rights, and interests which
often passed in his presence. All this pointed him out as the person formed to make happy a
spirit like that of Rose, which corresponded with his own.

She remarked this point in Waverley's character one day while she sat with Miss Bradwardine.
'His genius and elegant taste,' answered Rose, 'cannot be interested in such trifling discussions. Discover
every first faculty will be developed, the capacity was increased. Forward will be every regular troopers,
deceiving foe to allure himself of amnesia to S. The knowledge might not be original mind but
to beat this energies. There the enterprises may be carried well, the loftiest ambition make, the
highest aspiration opened; and still there will be there arise original
heights to surmount, weary wonders to admire, quartered fact of comprehend,
cruel objects to bellow away the powers of head himself. You saw when Corrinaschian raised
his voice in great passion, and laid his hand upon his sword, Waverley lifted his head as if
he had just awaked from a dream, and asked with great composure what the matter was.'

'Well, and did not the laughter they fell into at his absence of mind serve better to break
off the dispute than anything he could have said to them?'

'True, my dear,' answered Flora; 'but not quite so creditably for Waverley as if he had brought
them to their senses by force of reason.'

'Would you have him peacemaker general between all the gunpowder Highlanders in the army? I
beg your pardon, Flora, your brother, you know, is out of the question; he has more sense than
half of them. But can you think the fierce, hot, furious spirits of whose brawls we see much
and hear more, and who terrify me out of my life every day in the world, are at all to be compared
to Waverley?'

'I do not compare him with those uneducated men, my dear Rose. I only lament that, with his
talents and genius, he does not assume that place in society for which they eminently fit him,
and that he does not lend their full impulse to the noble cause in which he has enlisted. Are
there not Lochiel, and P--, and M--, and G--, all men of the highest education as well as the
first talents,-- why will he not stoop like them to be alive and useful? I often believe his
zeal is frozen by that proud cold-blooded Englishman whom he now lives with so much.'

'Colonel Talbot? he is a very disagreeable person, to be sure. He looks as if he thought no
Scottish woman worth the trouble of handing her a cup of tea. But Waverley is so gentle, so
well informed--'

'Yes,' said Flora, smiling, 'he can admire the moon and quote a stanza from Tasso.'

'Besides, you know how he fought,' added Miss Bradwardine.

