I was ready to start on my journey when there began such a blizzard as is occasionally described
in the literature of Polar exploration. For forty-eight hours from the south came a furious
gale. It was not too cold, only about twenty degrees of actual frost, but with the wind came
blinding snow--not snow such as we see in England, but fine snow, like white dust. It beat
on your face, found its way between the flaps of your head-covers, where it thawed and ran
down your neck and chest and saturated your underwear. It smashed straight on to your eyeballs,
and froze in cakes to your eyelashes and cheeks, so that in five or ten minutes you were blind
and unable to find your way or move in any direction. All sentries had to be withdrawn and
sent to the nearest shelter, for it was impossible to locate oneself or see a building till
you blundered up against it. A note in my diary records that "a guard of eighteen Russians
and one officer walked away from their post and have not been seen since, and six days have
passed." Roofs were torn off the houses, and the strongest buildings rocked in a most alarming
manner. The snow piled itself up against the houses till it covered the windows on the ground
floors and half-way up those of the second. This southern gale took twenty-four hours in which
to blow itself out, and a four days' calm followed, during which the snow was cleared from
the railway and traffic resumed. The next startler was a message from Irkutsk stating that
a terrific gale was breaking down from the north--a recoil from the one just described--accompanied
with sixty degrees of actual frost, making it impossible to live out of doors. This storm struck
Omsk on February 20, and no words can describe the complete obliteration of man and all his
works accomplished by such a gale. Nothing can live in the intense cold created by such a wind.
Hence movement and life cease, and King Frost has the whole field to himself. In a few hours
the earth is levelled; all the indications remaining of the ordinary log dwellings are a few
snow-banks with a row of dark posts from which smoke is emitted, showing that there are human
habitations underneath. By February 22 this storm had worked itself out and we were able to
proceed.

The influence of the Koltchak Government could be seen in the orderly management of affairs
connected with the railway and supplies generally. Not till we reached Kameragh could we observe
any sign that there still remained unextinguished embers of the social inferno through which
the country had passed. At this point the line was guarded by a strong detachment of troops
quartered in trucks on the siding. The officer in command informed me that an attack by revolters
had been made on the line at this point, who had held up the traffic for some hours, but had
been driven off before any permanent injury was accomplished. The revolters did not wait after
the attack, but set fire to the station and departed. He suggested that it might be as well
to be ready for sniping, and for worse things, should accident force the train to come to a
standstill between here and Krasnoyarsk. We arrived at the latter place, however, without incident
on February 25.

Krasnoyarsk is a fairly large town on the River Yenesei. The fine bridge over the river is
the point to which the eyes of the revolters are constantly directed. The garrison was composed
of one company of the 25th Middlesex Regiment, an Italian battalion recently formed from amongst
the Italian prisoners of war and armed by the British, about four hundred Cossacks, and a company
of Czechs belonging to the 10th Regiment, who arrived that morning. There were numbers of Bolsheviks
inhabiting an elevated part of the town. These met on the old Russian New Year's Day and passed
a resolution that it was necessary to execute all army officers wherever they might be found
isolated from their comrades. The army chiefs replied by ordering all guns to be trained on
the Bolshevik part of the town and one round of shell from each of the eight guns to be planted
in the Bolshevik quarters for every officer murdered. No officers had been murdered up to that
time. A party of Serbians who had been armed to assist in protecting the inhabitants were caught
selling arms and ammunition to the Bolsheviks; they were surrounded in the middle of the night
and disarmed, one Cossack being killed. The 25th were "standing to" during this operation in
case their assistance was required.

We started for Irkutsk on the 25th, having been warned that the road to Kansk was practically
dominated by the revolters. About 8 P.M. we arrived at the headquarters of General Affinasiaff,
who came into my car and gave a minute description of the situation. The enemy forces numbered
about 8,000, and those of the Russian Government about 3,000. For about one hundred versts
the Russian forces, in small detachments, were allowing themselves to be pinned to the railway.

It was very interesting to hear a clear statement as to the cause of the revolt and to find
that the chief point of the grievances set forth in the revolters' own proclamations. In great
part these opponents of the Government consist of rich peasants, who already possessing land
which in many cases was equal in extent to the County of Rutland, had in 1917, under the order
of Lenin and Trotsky, taken forcible possession of the furniture, horses, farmhouses, carts,
carriages, land, etc., of the big landholders, who with their families had been massacred by
these same rich peasants.

The next important element among the revolters were the escaped prisoners of the old régime,
who, being released by the Bolsheviks, had taken to the forest to avoid recapture--probably
the wildest and most savage set of men in the world. They were illicitly fed and protected
by the aforementioned wealthy peasants with a view, firstly, to buy off their hostility to
themselves, and, secondly, to secure their help to resist the civil officers of the new Government
who were appointed to inquire into the methods by which these wealthy peasants became possessed
of their dead neighbours' lands and properties; thirdly, to enable these wealthy peasants to
resist the payment of taxes, not only those that were in arrears, but any that would become
due in the future. This was the point dealt with in their proclamation, wherein it was stated
that inasmuch as it was the people who lived in the towns that forced the revolution, therefore
it was unjust to ask the peasants to pay for the damage done by those in the towns; further,
that it was the people in the towns who kept on fighting one another, and until they had finished
their quarrelling the peasants would not pay any taxes or do anything to help the Government;
fourthly, this unholy partnership enabled the wealthy peasants to resist the mobilisation ordered
by the Koltchak Government for the same reasons.

As I have already pointed out, every minor Government and general, including General Denikin,
made haste to show their submission to Omsk when Admiral Koltchak assumed authority, the only
exception being Colonel Semianoff. He, it was known, was accepting a regular subsidy from the
Japanese to enable them to resist the extension of the admiral's power towards Vladivostok,
and it was under their instructions and protection Semianoff refused to recognise the authority
of the Omsk Government and issued insolent manifestos against the Supreme Governor. The peasants
inhabiting the western side of the Baikal seized upon this fact and said in their proclamations
that inasmuch as Colonel Semianoff had refused to allow Koltchak's orders to operate on the
east side, and was supported therein by one of the Allies, there was every reason why they
should do the same on the west side of the lake. It shows what a tremendous influence Japan
had either to create order or to make order impossible. She and Semianoff between them provided
these revolters with just the argument they needed. By so acting Japan created and extended
the area of anarchy and made the task of her Allies and Koltchak more difficult than it might
otherwise have been.

This may not be a very logical position for the peasants to have taken up, but anyone who knows
anything about Russia will see that it fitted their psychology to a fraction. These people
are more ignorant than our worst educated agricultural labourers. They own and live on huge
tracts of land, in most cases as large as a great English estate. Their method of living is
many stages below that of our landless farm labourer. Their ignorance is colossal, their cupidity
and cunning the envy of the Armenians, who openly confess that in a bargain the Russian peasant
beats the Jew to a frazzle. The order of the Soviet Government to the peasants to take possession
of the landowners' estates and property was the trump card which Lenin and Trotsky played to
secure immunity in the provinces while they massacred and robbed the property owners in the
towns. These men, who are the natural enemies of all political progress and social reform,
and who should have exercised a steadying effect upon the empty idealism of the professional
classes, were too busy robbing their neighbours to be able to exert any influence upon the
major events of the revolution. While perfectly willing to use the revolution--whose principles
they abhorred--for their own personal aggrandisement, this wealthy peasantry are now equally
unwilling to render the slightest help in the restoration of order.

It was with profound interest that I read these documents, which entirely exploded the English
legend of the landless Russian peasant pining for a few acres of land.

We arrived at Irkutsk and proceeded to investigate the situation. When we passed here four
months before it was the centre of Siberian life; official indolence had, however, again reduced
its status to that of a third- or fourth-rate town.

I was anxious to know how the new Rumanian Division under French auspices was progressing.
Fourteen thousand rifles that could be ill afforded from the front had been left here some
six weeks previous by one of our British supply trains. I found that the local Russian military
authorities knew nothing, nor had they ever been consulted about it. They knew that not more
than three thousand Rumanians lived in the district, and these had mostly embraced the opinions
of the Bolsheviks. I made inquiries through the usual English channels, but they were equally
uninformed. A visit to the Russian railway department elicited the fact that a French officer
had signed the necessary orders for the trucks containing the rifles to remain at Irkutsk,
that three thousand rifles had so far been unloaded, and that there was a French proposal to
send the remainder to Tomsk, where it was hoped they might be got rid of amongst some Serbian
bands with Bolshevik tendencies. This may or may not represent all the facts, but it indicates
the unmistakable necessity that English help shall be given only by English hands.

Russian officers were beginning to recover their old characteristics, and nightly filled the
entertainment halls and restaurants and led the gaieties of the town. Very little thought was
given to the grim struggle their half-clad comrades were waging with the forces of anarchy
along the Ural mountains.

British Consul Nash kindly entertained Colonel and Madame Frank and myself, and generally helped
me in the organisation of this end of my campaign. He did not think much of my objective, but
he helped all the same.

CHAPTER XVII

MY CAMPAIGN

