Furthermore. An affirmative--such as wisdom, power, goodness--can exist absolutely; it is in
the nature of a Something: but a negative--such as ignorance, weakness, evil--can only exist
relatively; and it would, indeed, be a Nothing, were it not for the previous and now simultaneous
existence of its wiser, stronger, and better origin. Abstract evil is as demonstrably an impossibility
as abstract ignorance, or abstract weakness. If evil could have self-existed, it would in the
moment of its eternal birth have demolished itself. Virtue's intrinsic concord tends to perpetual
being: vice's innate discord struggles always with a force towards dissolution. Goodness, wisdom,
power have existences, and have had existences from all eternity, though gulphed within the
Godhead; and that, whether evidenced in act or not: but their corruptions have had no such
original existence, but are only the same entities perverted. Love would be love still, though
there were no existent object for its exercise: Beauty would be beauty still, though there
were no created thing to illustrate its fairness: Power would be power still, though there
be no foe to combat, no difficulty to be overcome. Hatred, ill-favour, weakness, are only perversions
or diminutions of these. Power exists independently of muscles or swords or screws or levers;
love, independently of kind thoughts, words, and actions; beauty, independently of colours,
shapes, and adaptations. Just so is Wisdom philosophically spoken of by a truly royal and noble
author:

"I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and find out the knowledge of clever inventions. Counsel is
mine, and sound wisdom; I am understanding; I have strength.

King Solomon well knew of Whom he wrote thus nobly. Eternal wisdom, power, and goodness, all
prospectively thus yearning upon man, and incorporate in One, whose name, among his many names,
is Wisdom. Wisdom, as a quality, existed with God; and, constituting full pervasion of his
essence, was God.

But to return, and bind to a conclusion our ravelled thoughts. As, originally, the self-existent
being, unbounded, all-knowing, might take up, so to speak, if He willed, these eternal affirmative
excellences of wisdom, power, and goodness; and as these, to every rational apprehension, are
highly worthy of his choice, whereas their derivative and inferior corruptions would have been
most derogatory to any reasonable estimate of His character; how much more likely was it that
He should prefer the higher rather than the lower, should take the affirmative before the negative,
should "choose the good, and refuse the evil,"--than endure to be endowed with such garbled,
demoralizing, finite attributes as those wherewith the heathen painted the Pantheon. What high
antecedent probability was there, that if a God should be (and this we have proved highly probable
too)--He should be One, ubiquitous, self-existent, spiritual: that He should be all-mighty,
all-wise, and all-good?

THE TRIUNITY.

Another deep and inscrutable topic is now to engage our thoughts--the mystery of a probable
Triunity. While we touch on such high themes, the Christian's presumption ever is, that he
himself approaches them with reverence and prayer; and that, in the case of an unbeliever,
any such mind will be courteous enough to his friendly opponent, and wise enough respecting
his own interest and safety lest these things be true, to enter upon all such subjects with
the seriousness befitting their importance, and with the restraining thought that in fact they
may be sacred.

Let us then consider, antecedently to all experience, with what sort of deity pure reason would
have been satisfied. It has already arrived at Unity, and the foregoing attributes. But what
kind of Unity is probable? Unity of Person, or unity of Essence? A sterile solitariness, easily
understandable, and presumably incommunicative? or an absolute oneness, which yet relatively
involves several mysterious phases of its own expansive love? Will you think it a foregone
conclusion, if I assert the superior likelihoods of the latter, and not of the former? Let
us come then to a few of many reasons. First: it was by no means probable to be supposed anteriorly,
that the God should be clearly comprehensible: yet he must be one: and oneness is the idea
most easily apprehended of all possible ideas. The meanest of intellectual creatures could
comprehend his Maker, and in so far top his heights, if God, being truly one in one view, were
yet only one in every view: if, that is to say, there existed no mystery incidental to his
nature: nay, if that mystery did not amount to the difficulty of a seeming contradiction. I
judge it likely, and with confidence, that Reason would prërequire for his God, a Being, at
once infinitely easy to be apprehended by the lowest of His spiritual children, and infinitely
difficult to be comprehended by the highest of His seraphim. Now, there can be guessed only
two ways of compassing such a prërequirement: one, a moral way; such as inventing a deity who
could be at once just and unjust, every where and no where, good and evil, powerful and weak;
this is the heathen phase of Numen's character, and is obviously most objectionable in every
point of view: the other would be a physical way; such as requiring a God who should be at
once material and immaterial, abstraction and concretion; or, for a still more confounding
paradox to Reason (considered as antagonist to Faith, in lieu of being strictly its ally),
an arithmetical contradiction, an algebraic mystery, such as would be included in the idea
of Composite Unity; one involving many, and many collapsed into one. Some such enigma was probable
in Reason's guess at the nature of his God. It is the Christian way; and one entirely unobjectionable:
because it is the only insuperable difficulty as to His Nature which does not debase the notion
of Divinity. But there are also other considerations.

For, secondly. The self-existent One is endowed, as we found probable, with abundant loving-kindness,
goodness overflowing and perpetual. Is it reasonable to conceive that such a character could
for a moment be satisfied with absolute solitariness? that infinite benevolence should, in
any possible beginning, be discovered existent in a sort of selfish only-oneness? Such a supposition
is, to the eye of even unenlightened Reason, so clearly a reductio ad absurdum, that men in
all countries and ages have been driven to invent a plurality of Gods, for very society sake:
and I know not but that they are anteriorly wiser and more rational than the man who believes
in a Benevolent Existence eternally one, and no otherwise than one. Let me not be mistaken
to imply that there was any likelihood of many cöexistent gods: that was a reasonable improbability,
as we have already seen, perhaps a spiritual impossibility: but the anterior likelihood of
which I speak goes to show, that in One God there should be more than one cöexistence: each,
by arithmetical mystery, but not absurdity, pervading all, cöequals, each being God, and yet
not three Gods, but one God. That there should be a rational difficulty here--or, rather, an
irrational one--I have shown to be Reason's prërequirement: and if such a one as I, or any
other creature, could now and here (ay, or any when or any where, in the heights of highest
heaven, and the far-stretching distance of eternity) solve such intrinsic difficulty, it would
demonstrably be one not worthy of its source, the wise design of God: it would prove that riddle
read, which uncreate omniscience propounded for the baffling of the creature mind. No. It is
far more reasonable, as well as far more reverent, to acquiesce in Mystery, as another attribute
inseparable from the nature of the Godhead; than to quibble about numerical puzzles, and indulge
unwisely in objections which it is the happy state of nobler intelligences than man on earth
is, to look into with desire, and to exercise withal their keen and lofty minds.

But we have not yet done. Some further thoughts remain to be thrown out in the third place,
as to the prëconceivable fitness or propriety of that Holy Union, which we call the trinity
of Persons who constitute the Self-existent One. If God, being one in one sense, is yet likely
to appear, humanly speaking, more than one in another sense; we have to inquire anteriorly
of the probable nature of such other intimate Being or Beings: as also, whether such addition
to essential oneness is likely itself to be more than one or only one. As to the former of
these questions: if, according to the presumption of reason (and according also to what we
have since learned from revelation; but there may be good policy in not dotting this book with
chapter and verse)--if the Deity thus loved to multiply Himself; then He, to whom there can
exist no beginning, must have so loved, so determined, and so done from all eternity. Now,
any conceivable creation, however originated, must have had a beginning, place it as far back
as you will. In any succession of numbers, however infinitely they may stretch, the commencement
at least is a fixed point, one. But, this multiplication of Deity, this complex simplicity,
this intricate easiness, this obvious paradox, this sub-division and con-addition of a One,
must have taken place, so soon as ever eternal benevolence found itself alone; that is, in
eternity, and not in any imaginable time. So then, the Being or Beings would probably not have
been creative, but of the essence of Deity. Take also for an additional argument, that it is
an idea which detracts from every just estimate of the infinite and all-wise God to suppose
He should take creatures into his eternal counsels, or consort, so to speak, familiarly with
other than the united sub-divisions, persons, and cöequals of Himself. It was reasonable to
prëjudge that the everlasting companions of Benevolent God, should also be God. And thus, it
appears antecedently probable that (what from the poverty of language we must call) the multiplication
of the one God should not have been created beings; that is, should have been divine; a term,
which includes, as of right, the attribution to each such Holy Person, of all the wondrous
characteristics of the Godhead.

Again: as to the latter question; was it probable that such so-called sub-divisions should
be two, or three, or how many? I do not think it will be wise to insist upon any such arithmetical
curiosity as a perfect number; nor on such a toy as an equilateral triangle and its properties;
nor on the peculiar aptitude for sub-division in every thing, to be discerned in a beginning,
a middle, and an end; nor in the consideration that every fact had a cause, is a constancy,
and produces a consequence: neither, to draw any inferences from the social maxim that for
counsel, companionship, and conversation, the number three has some special fitness. Some other
similar fancies, not altogether valueless, might be alluded to. It seems preferable, however,
on so grand a theme, to attempt a deeper dive, and a higher flight. We would then, reverently
as always, albeit equally as always with the free-born boldness of God's intellectual children,
attempt to prëjudge how many, and with what distinctive marks, the holy beings into whom (Greek:
ôst epos eipein) God, for very Benevolence sake, pours out Essential Unity, were likely to be.

Let us consider what principles, as in the case of a forthcoming creation, would probably be
found in action, to influence such creation's Author.

First of all, there would be Will, a will energized by love, disposing to create: a phase of
Deity aptly and comprehensively typified to all minds by the name of a universal Father: this
would be the primary impersonation of God. And is it not so?

Secondly: there would be (with especial reference to that idea of creation which doubtless
at most remote beginnings occupied the Good One's contemplation), there would be next, I repeat,
in remarkable adaptation to all such benevolent views, the great idea of principle, Obedience;
conforming to a Father's righteous laws, acquiescing in his just will, and returning love for
love: such a phase could not be better shadowed out to creatures than by an Eternal Son; the
dutiful yet supreme, the subordinate yet cöequal, the amiable yet exalted Avatar of our God.
This was probable to have been the second impersonation of Deity. And is it not so?

Thirdly: Springing from the conjoint ideas of the Father and the Son, and with similar prospection
to such instantly creative universe, there would occur the grand idea of Generation; the mighty
cöequal, pure, and quickening Impulse: aptly announced to men and angels as the Holy Spirit.
This was to have been the third impersonation of Divinity. And is it not so?

Of all these--under illumination of the fore-known fact, I speak, in their aspect of anterior
probability. With respect to more possible Persons, I at least cannot invent one. There is,
to my reflection, neither need nor fitness for a fourth, or any further Principle. If another
can, let him look well that he be not irrationally demolishing an attribute and setting it
up as a principle. Obedience is not an attribute; nor Generation; nor Will: whilst the attribute
of Love, pervading all, sets these only possible three Principles going together as One in
a mysterious harmony. I would not be misunderstood; persons are not principles; but principles
may be illustrated and incorporative in persons. Essential Love, working distinctively throughout
the Three, unites them instinctively as One: even as the attribute Wisdom designs, and the
attribute Power arranges all the scheme of Godhead.

And now I ask Reason, whether, prësupposing keenness, he might not have arrived by calculation
of probabilities at the likelihood of these great doctrines: that the nature of God would be
an apparent contradiction: that such contradiction should not be moral, but physical; or rather
verging towards the metaphysical, as immaterial and more profound: that God, being One, should
yet, in his great Love, marvellously have been companioned from eternity by Himself: and that
such Holy and United Confraternity should be so wisely contrived as to serve for the bright
unapproachable exemplar of love, obedience, and generation to all the future universe, such
Triunity Itself existing uncreated.

THE GODHEAD VISIBLE.

We have hitherto mused on the Divinity, as on Spirit invested with attributes: and this idea
of His nature was enough for all requirements antecedently to a creation. At whatever beginning
we may suppose such creation to have commenced, whether countless ages before our present [Greek:
kosmos], or only a sufficient time to have prepared the crust of earth; and to whatever extent
we may imagine creation to have spread, whether in those remote periods originally to our system
alone and at after eras to its accompanying stars and galaxies and firmaments; or at one and
the same moment to have poured material existence over space to which our heavens are as nothing:
whatever, and whenever, and wherever creation took place, it would appear to be probable that
some one person of the Deity should, in a sort, become more or less concretely manifested;
that is, in a greater or a minor degree to such created minds and senses visible. Moreover,
for purposes at least of a concentrated worship of such creatures, that He should occasionally,
or perhaps habitually, appear local. I mean, that the King of all spiritual potentates and
the subordinate Excellencies of brighter worlds than ours, the Sovereign of those whom we call
angels, should will to be better known to and more aptly conceived by such His admiring creatures,
in some usual glorious form, and some wonted sacred place. Not that any should see God, as
purely God; but, as God relatively to them, in the capacity of King, Creator, and the Object
of all reasonable worship. It seems anteriorly probable that one at least of the Persons in
the Godhead should for this purpose assume a visibility; and should hold His court of adoration
in some central world, such as now we call indefinitely Heaven. That such probability did exist
in the human forecast, as concerns a heaven and the form of God, let the testimony of all nations
now be admitted to corroborate. Every shape from a cloud to a crocodile, and every place from
Æther to Tartarus, have been peopled by man's not quite irrational device with their so-called
gods. But we must not lapse into the after-argument: previous likelihood is our harder theme.
Neither, in this section, will we attempt the probabilities of the place of heaven: that will
be found at a more distant page. We have here to speak of the antecedent credibility that there
should be some visible phase of God; and of the shape wherein he would be most likely, as soon
as a creation was, to appear to such his creatures. With respect, then, to the former. Creatures,
being finite, can only comprehend the infinite in his attribute of unity: the other attributes
being apprehended (or comprehended partially) in finite phases. But, unity being a purely intellectual
thought, one high and dry beyond the moral feelings, involves none of the requisites of a spiritual,
that is an affectionate, worship; such worship as it was likely that a beneficent Being would,
for his creatures' own elevation in happiness, command and inspire towards Himself. In order,
therefore, to such worship and such inspiration acting through reason, it would appear fitting
that the Deity should manifest Himself especially with reference to that heavenly Exemplar,
the Three Divine Persons of the One Supreme Essence already shown to have been probable. And
it seems likeliest and discreetest to my thinking, that, with this view, the secondary phase,
loving Obedience, under the dictate of the primary phase, a loving Will, and energized by the
tertiary or conjoining phase a loving Quickening Entity, should assume the visible type of
Godhead, and thus concentrate unto Himself the worship of all worlds. I can conceive no scheme
more simply profound, more admirably suited to its complex purposes, than that He, in whom
dwelt the fullness of the Godhead, bodily, should take the form of God, in order that unto
Him every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things in regions
under the earth. Was not all this reasonably to have been looked for? and tested afterwards
by Scripture, in its frequent allusions to some visible phase of Deity, when the Lord God walked
with Adam, and Enoch, and Abraham, and Peter, and James, and John--I ask, is it not the case?

The latter point remaining to be thus briefly touched upon, respects the probable shape to
be assumed and worn, familiarly enough to be recognised as His, by Deity thus vouchsafing Himself
visible. And here we must look down the forward stream of Time, and search among the creatures
whom thereafter God should make, to arrive at some good reason for, some antecedent probability
of, the form which he should thus frequently inhabit. Fire, for example, a pure and spirit-like
nature, would not have been a guess unworthy of reason: but this, besides its humbler economic
uses, would endanger an idolatry of the natural emblem. So also would light be no irrational
thought. And it is true that God might, and probably would, invest Himself in one or both of
these pure essences, so seemingly congenial to a nature higher than ours: but then there would
be some nucleus to the brilliancy and the burning; these would be as a veil to the Divinity;
we should have need, before He were truly visible, that the veil were laid aside: we should
have to shred away to the nucleus, which (and not the fire or light) would be the form of God.
Similar objections, in themselves or in their idolatrizing tendencies, would lie against any
such shape as a cloud, or a rainbow, or an angel (whatever such a being may resemble), or in
fact any other conceivable creature, whether good as the angelic case or indifferent as that
of the cloud, which the Deity, though assuming often, would nevertheless in every instance
assume in conjunction with such his ordinary creature, and could not entirely monopolize. I
mean; if God had the shape of a cloud, or of a rainbow, common clouds and rainbows would come
to be thought gods too. Reason would anticipate this objection to such created and too-favoured
shapes: more; in every case, but one, he would be quite at a loss to look for some type, clearly
apt and probable. That one case he might discern to be this. Known unto God are all things
from the beginning to the end: and, in His fore-knowledge, Reason might have been enlightened
to prophesy (as we shall hereafter see) that for certain wise and good ends one great family
out of the myriads who rejoice in being called God's children, would in a most marked manner
fall away from Him through disobedience; and should thereby earn, if not the annihilation of
their being, at least its endless separation from the Blessed. Manifestly, the wisdom and benevolence
of God would be eager and swift to devise a plan for the redemption of so lost a race. Why
He should permit their fall at all will be reverentially descanted on in its proper section;
meanwhile, how is it probable that God, first, by any theory consistently with truth and justice,
could, and next by power and contrivance actually would, lift up again this sinful family from
the pit of condemnation? Reason is to search the question well: and after much thought, you
will arrive at the truth that there was but one way probable. Rebellion against the Great and
Self-existent Author of all things, must needfully involve infinite punishment; if only because
He is infinite, and his laws of an eternal sanction. The problem then was, how to inflict the
unbounded punishment thus claimed by justice for a transgressional condition, and yet at love's
demand to set the prisoner free: how to be just, and simultaneously justifier of the guilty.
That was a question magnificently solved by God alone: magnificently about to be solved, as
according to our argument seemed probable, by God Triune, in wondrous self-involving council.
The solution would be rationally this. Himself, in his character of filial obedience, should
pay the utter penalty to Himself in his character of paternal authority, whilst Himself in
the character of quickening spirit, should restore the ransomed family from death to life,
from the power of evil unto good. Was not this a most probable, a most reasonably probable
scheme? was it not altogether wise and philosophical, as well as entirely generous and kind
to wretched men?

