Vs. 1, 2.--The Apocalypse, besides the three parts into which it is divided by its divine Author,
(noticed in ch. i. 19,) is also susceptible of division into two parts. With the eleventh chapter
terminates the abridged prospective history of the church and of the world, emblematically
represented under the seals and trumpets. The seventh seal, when opened, disclosed all the
contents of the sealed book, and also introduced the seven trumpets. But we have followed the
series of the trumpets in order, to the end of the world,--interrupted only by the isolated
history of the "little book; which, treating of events which were matter of history under the
first two woe-trumpets, could not be sealed. Now at the twelfth chapter, without regard to
the seventh, or any other of the trumpets in particular, we are furnished with a second and
enlarged edition, as it were, of the most important parts of the first edition. We have observed
before, that this is the manner of the prophets on a large scale, especially in predicting
"the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow." So it is with John and Paul.
What the latter only hints at, when writing to Timothy, (1 Tim. iv. 1-3,) he enlarges upon
in addressing the Thessalonians. (2 Thess. ii. 3-12.) The theme is the same as treated by these
two apostles; and this coincidence will in due time be more manifest. Next to Christ personal,
the prophets have been interested in the destiny of Christ mystical.

Three different views of this twelfth chapter have been taken by the more sober and learned
expositors. One considers it as referring to the Roman empire in its heathen state, prior to
the time of Constantine. Another understands the first part of this chapter,--(vs. 1-6,)--as
relating to Rome pagan, and the rest of the chapter to antichristian Rome. A third conceives
that the whole of it applies to apostate imperial Rome only. The last is doubtless the correct
view.

As the "sealed book" and the "little open book," must be supposed to contain all the prophetical
part of the Apocalypse; and as the whole of the little book is comprised in the eleventh chapter,
(vs. 1--13,) this twelfth chapter must belong to the sealed book. Being a continuance of the
history under the seventh seal, although it may agree in time with some of the trumpets, it
cannot go back to a period prior to the seventh seal. But under the sixth seal, paganism was
abolished in the Roman empire; therefore this chapter refers to the antichristian empire. Moreover,
as the little book was introductory to the seventh trumpet, designating the object of the third
woe, so this chapter and the next two, are wholly occupied in describing the object of the
vials, (ch. 16.)

We ought to bear in mind continually, that the seals, trumpets and vials, are introduced as
symbols, to delineate one character, the impenitent enemy of God and of his saints. But this
enemy "beguiles through his subtlety," changing his aspects and instruments, the more successfully
to assail the city of the Lord. It is therefore the design of the Holy Spirit in these three
chapters to present the foe in his most prominent features, that the two witnesses may be able
to identify the enemy, be apprized of their danger, and intelligently choose their commander,--"the
Captain of salvation."

"There appeared a great wonder in heaven." The word "wonder" in this verse, and also in verse
third, simply means a sign or symbol; and the whole structure of the book requires that it
be so translated.--"Woman" is here the true church of God. Here most expositors fail to explain
the symbol "heaven." Others say "heaven" symbolizes the church. Then we have two churches,--a
church within a church! This is unquestionably the only correct view of the matter. During
most, if not the whole period of the 1260 years, the witnesses are so blended with, or overshadowed
by the church catholic or general, that few are able, and fewer still disposed, to distinguish
the one from the other. All through the Bible the church is spoken of as a female. She is the
"daughter of Zion,--the bride, the Lamb's wife." Any body politic is spoken of in the sacred
writings in the same style. "The daughter of Babylon, of Tyre, or even of Egypt,"--These are
familiar figures.

This woman is "clothed with the sun." She has "put on the Lord Jesus Christ." (Rom. xiii. 14.)
He is "the Lord her righteousness." (Jer. xxiii. 6.) The "moon under her feet," may represent
the "beggarly elements" of the Mosaic ritual, sublunary things, or the ordinances which derive
all their light from the "Sun of righteousness." The "twelve stars" are the doctrine of the
apostles, or rather the apostles' legitimate successors; their legitimacy tested by their doctrine
and order in opposition to the imaginary historical line of papistical and prelatic succession.
A faithful gospel ministry are ever her stars and her crown, (ch. i. 20.) The true apostolic
church, thus scripturally constituted, (ch. xi. 1,) becomes the joyful mother of a holy seed.
(Ps. cxiii. 9; Gal. iv. He is known from the day that he "beguiled Eve" in the garden of Eden.
"That old serpent" still intrudes among the saints, in the garden of the Lord. (Job i. 6; John
vi. 70; xiii. 27.) As the devil possessed the serpent to deceive the mother of mankind, so,
with the same malevolent design, he possessed himself of the whole political and ecclesiastical
power of the Roman empire, thereby to deceive and destroy the "seed of the woman," all true
believers. His color is red, denoting his character as cruel and blood-thirsty. Sir Isaac Newton
considers the dragon as symbolical of the Greek Christian empire of Constantinople. Scott thinks
this symbol represents the pagan Roman empire; while others suppose the British government
to answer the symbol, because of the scarlet costume of her officers and soldiers! Thus, inspired
symbols may mean any thing suggested to the imaginations of men, not by the text or context,
but by their respective and conflicting political prejudices. Surely, if the red color signify
any thing besides cruelty, it may be discerned with equal clearness in the scarlet cloaks of
Pope and Cardinals. As "heaven" is to be taken in an ecclesiastical sense, so are the "stars,"
(ch. i. 20,--) "the angels of the churches," ministers of the gospel.--As the Saracenic locusts
and the Euphratean horses had stings and hurtful power in their tails, (ch. ix. 10, 19;) so
it is with this dragon. The destructive influence of Mahometan delusion and papal idolatry,
operated as a fatal poison in the souls of men. The judgments of the past woes left many still
in a state of impenitence, (ch. ix. 20, 21.) "The leaders of this people caused them to err,"
by inculcating submission to existing corrupt civil power. The "little horn" of Daniel, as
first rendered visible in the person of the brutal Phocas, began to be addressed in language
of most fulsome and degrading flattery, which seems to be copied till the present time. That
we may see how mercenary and aspiring ecclesiastics paid court to civil despots from the commencement
of the famous 1260 years, let the following instance serve for a sample. Addressing the monster
Phocas, Pope Gregory, as the mouth of the clergy and laity,[4] uses this language: "We rejoice
that the benignity of your piety(!) has reached the pinnacle of imperial power. Let the heavens
he glad and the earth rejoice."--Now let us hear the character of Phocas from the pen of an
infidel:--"Ignorant of letters, of laws, and even of arms, he indulged in the supreme rank
a more ample privilege of lust and drunkenness.--The punishment of the victims of his tyranny
was imbittered by the refinements of cruelty: their eyes were pierced, their tongues were torn
from the root, their hands and feet were amputated: some expired under the lash, others in
the flames, others again were transfixed with arrows: and a simple speedy death was mercy which
they could rarely obtain."[5] Thus the dragon's power was in his mouth, issuing bloody edicts
to "slay the innocent;" while "his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did
cast them to the earth." They prostituted their ministry to sustain the policy of the beast.
"The ancient and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail."
(Is. ix. 15.) Thus it is that pastors, fond of show and ambitious of worldly distinction, attach
themselves to the train of earthly thrones and dignities, and so constitute and perpetuate
the antichristian confederacy against the "woman"--the true church. During the first six hundred
years of the Christian era the woman had been "travailing" to bring forth a holy progeny. All
this time the dragon's "eyes are privily set against the poor." (Ps. x. 8.) The allusion is
here to the cruel edict of Pharaoh (Exod. i. 16; Acts vii. 19.) The great city where the witnesses
are slain is "spiritually called Egypt." (ch. xi. 8.) By a like form of speech, Pharaoh is
called "the great dragon," (Ezek. xxix. 3; Is. li. 9.) It should be noted, that the Roman empire,
the beast, in all its heads and horns is actuated by the devil,--before as well as after its
dismemberment, from the time of Romulus its founder, till its overthrow by the third woe. At
the time referred to in the text, when the empire has "assumed the livery of heaven,"--professedly
in the interest of Christ, then it is that the devil bestirs himself. Like his prototype, he
dreads the growth and power of the woman's offspring. Under pagan Rome's persecutions, "the
more God's people were afflicted, the more they multiplied and grew." Now the adversary shapes
his policy accordingly.--"Come on, let us deal wisely with them, lest they multiply."--His
avowed object is, to "devour the child as soon as it is born,"--by persecution to prevent ministers
from laboring to convert sinners to God; and to destroy all who "as new-born babes, desire
the sincere milk of the word."--The woman had still "strength to bring forth."--"She brought
forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron."--With united voice papists
and prelates declare, this child can be no other than Constantine the first Christian emperor.
The very fact that this interpretation comes from such a source, may well suggest suspicion
as to its correctness. Two considerations demonstrate the error of this prelatic interpretation,
besides the fact that it is prelatic. Constantine had gone the way of all the earth some hundreds
of years before the birth of this child. And again, the eternal Father never made the promise
to Constantine or any other earthly monarch, to which the apostle John here refers. (Ps. ii.
8, 9.) This promise is obviously made to the Lord Christ. But it is objected by those learned
expositors,--much like the Pharisees, (John vii. 52,)--"Search and look, for out of Galilee
ariseth no prophet." So reason these men. They haughtily and confidently object thus:--"Christ
is the son of the Jewish church, but this child is the son of the Christian church." This argument
destroys the unity of the church of God, which is one under all changes of dispensation of
his gracious covenant. (Rom. xi. 16-24; Eph. ii. 20.) The Messiah is here represented as in
the beginning of the war with the same enemy;--the seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's
head. Still may the church of God joyfully declare,--"Unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son
is given." (Is. ix. 6.) This masculine son, however, is not to be understood of Christ personal,
but of Christ mystical,--of those who are with him "called, and chosen, and faithful;" whom
"he is not ashamed to call his brethren." (ch. xvii. 14; Heb. ii. 11.) The "sealed" company,
(ch. vii. 4,) the "two witnesses;" (xi. 3), the "144 thousand," (xiv. 1,) are the "manchild."
As many rulers constitute but one "angel," (chs. ii. and iii.,) so the two witnesses are one
manly Son. The Lord Jesus was alone in the work of redemption; but he allows his faithful disciples
to share in the honor of his victories, (ch. ii. 26, 27; Ps. cxlix. 9.) From the devouring
jaws of the dragon, as it were, the "child is caught up unto God, and to his throne." The leaders
in church and state supposed that they had "made sure" of the Saviour, when they had "sealed
the stone and set a watch." So thought the enemies of the witnesses while their dead bodies
lay unburied.--"He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision."
The Anointed of the Father, the Head of the church, and Prince of the kings of the earth, as
the representative of his people, in defiance of the serpent, is caught up to the throne of
God, (Eph. ii. 6;) while the church flies to her appointed place in the wilderness during the
1260 years. At the beginning of that gloomy period the woman fled. This flight is not mentioned
"by anticipation," as some suppose; for the wilderness condition of the woman, and the sackcloth
of the witnesses, are emblematical of the same depressed state of the church, and during the
same time. The witnesses prophesy during the whole period of the 1260 years; and the woman
is fed in the wilderness during the same time. Her flight, sojourn in the wilderness, and feeding
there, are allusions to the history of Elijah as before, (ch. xi. 6.) when he fled for his
life from the wrath of Jezebel. (1 Kings xix. 1-4.) Jezebel has been already introduced as
an enemy to the church, (ch. ii. 20.) There may be allusion also to the miraculous subsistence
of the church in the wilderness, till the "cup of the Amorites should be full." During the
time of the conflict, to be described in the rest of this chapter, the woman is in a place
of safety. In the worst of times there are places of safety provided for God's children. (Isa.
xxvi.

Vs. 7-11.--In this part of the chapter we have three attacks of the dragon upon the friends
of true religion. The first is the war in heaven, (vs. 7-12.) The second persecution on the
earth, (vs. 12-16.) The third is mentioned in verse 17th: and these three contests cover the
whole period of the 1260 years.

The first war is waged in heaven. The allusion is obviously to the rebellion of angels, for
which they were cast down from heaven, (2 Pet. ii. 4.) The contest is the same in principle
as the first war; but it is conducted in a different form and place. Heaven here, is the church
general, and the serpent acts by the authority of the empire. The woman having fled into the
wilderness, the dragon's power becomes so great in the symbolical heaven, that he aims at the
entire destruction of true religion in the world. The advocates of the true religion at this
time were the Waldenses, called by their adversaries in derision Leonists and Cathari,--citizens
of Lyons in France; and Puritans, a term of reproach heaped upon their successors till the
present day. These people were deemed the most dangerous enemies to the church of Rome. Yet
the reasons for their condemnation by the inquisitors, are their full vindication in the judgment
of impartial men. They are three,--"This is the oldest sect; for some say it hath endured,--from
the time of the apostles. It is more general; for there is no country in which this sect is
not. Because when all other sects beget horror in the hearers, this of the Leonists hath a
great show of piety: they live justly before men, and believe all things rightly concerning
God; only they blaspheme the church of Rome and the clergy." While the beast by its horns,
instigated by an apostate church, and both by the dragon, was "making havoc of the church,"
represented by the Puritans: there were some even in the Romish cloisters whose hearts God
had touched, and who occasionally espoused the cause of a virtuous minority at the hazard of
life. This war in heaven, conducted with various success by Bernard, Peter Waldo, John Wickliffe
and others on the European continent and in Britain, may be pronounced by Gibbon "premature
and ineffectual;" but the Captain of salvation and his heroic followers, will give a different
verdict. These noble confessors and martyrs, under the conduct of Michael our prince, began
the struggle with the dragon, although the war did not come to its height till the early part
of the 16th century. Then it was that "Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and
the dragon fought and his angels." Both parties became more visible in the symbolic heaven
before the eyes of all Christendom. Michael, (who is like God?) is the well known description
of Jesus Christ. (Phil. ii. 6; Heb. i. 3.) To Daniel, while contemplating this same contest,
he was made known as the "great Prince, that standeth for the children of God's people," and
long before Daniel's time, had "contended with the devil." (Jude v. 9.) "Christ and Belial"
are therefore the two opposing leaders of the armies. In other words, Christ mystical and the
devil incarnate are the belligerents; and we know that "greater is he that is in the saints,
than he that is in the world." (1 John iv. 4.) The result of the war is not doubtful. The whole
power of Rome, civil and ecclesiastical,--emperors, kings, princes, pope, cardinals and prelates,
were baffled; and this too, whether in the use of the sword of the Spirit,--polemic theses,--or
of the material sword, in literal warfare. When the Lord Jesus "mustered the hosts to the battle,"
he furnished them "with the whole armour of God to stand in the evil way." (Luke xxii. 36.)

The dragon and his angels were defeated and routed,--"They prevailed not,--he was cast out
into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him." The thunders of the Vatican thenceforth
lost their wonted power to terrify. Ever since, they are but brutum fulmen,--vox, et praeterea
nihel,--harmless thunder,--unmeaning voice. Papal curses, though annually launched against
all heretics, tend only to amuse the popular mind, not to reach or disturb the individual conscience.
For centuries the dragon has been unable to rouse any one horn of the beast to deeds of blood.

It is usual for the victors to give outward expression to their joy. "The voice of them that
shout for mastery," has been heard since the days of Moses. (Exod. xxxii. 18.) Accordingly,
these conquerors congratulate one another on their recent victory, but their joy terminates
on the proper object. The "kingdom of their God and the power of his Christ" constitute their
theme. His right hand and his holy arm have gotten him the victory. The devil accused Job before
God. His accusations in that instance were prosecuted through Job's friends and his wife. (Job
ii. 4, 5, 9, 11.)--So it was in the experience of the reformers. They were loaded with infamy
by their persecutors; and while they were depressed, God himself seemed to give sentence against
them. This was the wormwood and the gall in the cup of their affliction, as it was in holy
Job's experience: but in due time God "brought forth their righteousness as the light, and
their judgment as the noonday." Their "good conversation put to silence the ignorance of foolish
men." The power of the Lord's Christ was made manifest through the instrumentality of his servants,
by producing conviction in many hearts that the cause for which they suffered was from God,
and thus prevailing with such to join in their fellowship. The hearts of kings and princes
of the earth were touched from on high; so that they braved the combinations of imperial and
papal power, while extending the shield of their protection to the followers of the Lamb. Frederick
the Wise, and especially John his brother, electors of Saxony in Luther's time, were notable
bulwarks of defence to the sufferers, against the bloody edicts of Charles fifth, emperor of
Germany. The "good regent" in Scotland and others extended effectual protection to Knox, his
coadjutors and followers in the cause of reformation. When the seven thunders uttered their
voices, John "was about to write," (ch. x. 4.) He was about to proclaim a final victory! He
was too sanguine. "The time was not yet." Just so in the case of his legitimate successors
in the work of the Lord. Confident in the power and faithfulness of Michael their Prince, confident
in the righteousness of their cause, fondly hoping that at this time their Master is about
to restore again the kingdom to Israel, they prematurely exclaim,--"Now is come salvation."--In
reaping the first fruits of victory, they anticipate the harvest of final and absolute conquest,
(ch. xiv. 8.) Indeed, the salvation of God and the power of his Christ, were experienced by
great multitudes during the time of this contest. The saints experienced times of refreshing
from the presence of the Lord. Then followed a work of grace, both on the continent of Europe
and in the British Isles; Christians entering into solemn covenant bonds with God and with
one another, whereby the kingdom of God was rendered more visible among mankind than in the
"dark ages." The weapons, with which the saints overcame the dragon, were not carnal, but mighty.
These, we are told, were "the blood of the Lamb, and the word of their testimony." They believed
and they taught in opposition to the popular doctrine of good works and penances, that the
righteousness which the law of God requires of a sinner, is provided by a Surety; that the
blood of Christ alone cleanses believers from the guilt of sin, and thus justifies them in
the sight of God. No man ever used stronger language than Luther in denouncing the supposed
efficacy of works, or in asserting the sovereignty of free grace, in the justification of a
sinner. Indeed it was the deep impression which the doctrine of justification made upon the
hearts of men, and the firm hold which faith took of it, that enabled and constrained them
to forsake the Romish church and to seek and erect a separate fellowship. This was with them
"the word of Christ's patience." Other doctrines of grace were, of course, connected with this
of justification in the apprehension of the Reformers, but it was the central one. And thus
we may learn, that any doctrine of the Bible, when generally opposed, may lawfully become a
point of testimony; and when openly opposed and practically denied, it may become a warrantable
and imperative ground of separation. In all such cases,--and history supplies multitudes of
them,--the declining majority are truly the schismatics and separatists. The malicious, the
indolent and credulous, however, in all ages have joined in the cry of schism as attaching
to the virtuous minority.

Many of the combatants fell in the conflict, "resisting unto blood, striving against sin."
"They loved not their lives unto the death." They could give no stronger evidence of love to
Christ and truth. Their faithful contendings constituted their testimony. This testimony is
called in the 17th verse, "the testimony of Jesus Christ." Does this mean that it belongs to
Christ? or that it treats of him? The language may probably be taken in either sense, or as
embracing both. It is Christ's testimony, as he is "the faithful and true Witness, who before
Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession;" or it may be understood as bearing upon Christ
in his person, offices and work. In either sense his faithful disciples enjoy intimate communion
with himself, sharing the honour of his victories, (v. 5.) Therefore let the heavens rejoice
in prospect of final victory, (ch. xviii.

Vs. 12, 13.--Here is a note of warning. The dragon, though ejected from the symbolic heaven,
the seat of imperial and ecclesiastic power, is not yet bound with the great chain, (ch. xx.
1, 2.) His late defeat has only incensed his rage, "as a bear robbed of her whelps." But the
special reason assigned for his "great wrath" is, "because he knoweth that he hath but a short
time." How does the devil come to this knowledge? Is he omniscient! No. Was he joint-counsellor
with the Most High? No. (Isa. xl. 13, 14; Rom. xi. 34.) He must have derived this knowledge
from revelation; and from some instances in Scripture, we might infer that the devil is more
skilled in theology, especially in prophecy, than many, if not most modern interpreters. In
the time of our Lord's humiliation he quoted and applied to him a prophecy in the 91st psalm,
(v. 11, 12.) He also dreaded being tormented,--"before the time." (Matt. viii. 29:) from which
it appears that he reasons of the "times and the seasons" as revealed in the Bible. But by
the phrase, "a short time," the devil understood,--and we are to understand,--not the time
to transpire till the end of the world; but, the time intervening between his ejectment out
of heaven, and the overthrow of Antichrist, when he is to be bound. Now, we may learn from
the devil's calculation, that all those learned and famous divines, especially of the prelatic
church of England, "do greatly err, not knowing the Scriptures;" who say, that the dragon was
cast out of the symbolic heaven in the time of Constantine! The space of duration from Constantine
till the millennium, cannot be relatively "short," under the New Testament dispensation. The
time of the dragon's being cast out of heaven, and the instruments by which this was accomplished,
are to be found clearly verified in the authentic histories of the sixteenth century, to which
some references have been already made, as elucidating the events of the 11th chapter: for
it is to be still remembered that the former part of the 11th chapter agrees in time with the
12th, 13th and 14th chapters. At the end of the second woe, which we supposed to be in the
latter part of the seventeenth century, about the year 1672, it is declared "the third woe
cometh quickly," (ch. xi. 14.) Now here it is said "the devil,--hath but a short time." Taking
both expressions as relating to the same period, it follows that we are now living,--not in
the time of the third woe, but in the time of the devil's activity among the "inhabiters of
the earth and of the sea;" that is, the population of Christendom either in a tranquil or revolutionary
state. The enemy makes his second attack upon the "woman" in a new and unexpected mode of warfare.
So long as permitted, he never ceases to persecute the saints. When defeated in heaven, he
renews the assault upon the earth. If the edicts and bulls of crowned and mitred heads have
lost their power to terrify and destroy the souls of men, he will try to effect the same object
by other means.

14.

16.

Vs. 14-16.--To guard against the second attack of the dragon, the woman flees a second time
to the place of safety, which had been mercifully prepared for her preservation before the
war began, (v. 6.) And she is in no less peril from her deadly enemy than before.

The "two wings of a great eagle" have furnished occasion to many fertile minds for indulging
in fanciful conjectures. To such persons nothing occurs answerable to the symbol but some emblem
of imperial power or national sovereignty. And because the eagle was the visible symbol on
the military banner of Rome, it is conjectured that "the eastern and western empires afforded
protection to the church!" Why, the empire, in both its wings, was the deadly enemy of the
church, as we have already seen! (ch. xi. 7.) Alas! what absurdities result from political
bias! The unlettered Christian will readily perceive under the emblem in the text, a plain
allusion to the gracious interposition of the church's Redeemer in the days of old. "Ye have
seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto
myself." (Exod. xix. 4.) Thus the Lord delivered his people and brought them into a literal
wilderness on their way to the promised land of liberty. And now in a time of equal danger,
he will "set his hand again the second time" to deliver his people. He who delivered them from
so great a death as Pharaoh threatened, doth still deliver: in whom his saints have ground
to trust that he will still deliver them, (2 Cor. i. 10) The great and beneficial change accomplished
among the nations by the reformation in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, whereby the
dragon was hurled from seats of ecclesiastical and civil power, did not materially change the
position of the "two witnesses." The time had not yet come when they were to be called up into
the symbolic heaven. They must continue to prophesy till the close of the appointed period
of 1260 years. Till the expiration of that definite period the true church of Christ is not
to be permanently established in any nation of the earth. The actual condition of the church
and of the nations among whom she dwells, is delineated in these verses during the time subsequent
to the Protestant Reformation,--consequently in our own time. The "time, times and half a time"
of the 14th verse, are an obvious reference to Daniel vii. 25: xii. 7; and are the same period
as 42 months, or 1260 days, "a day for a year." During this whole time the woman is nourished
in the wilderness "from the face of the serpent." Safety is secured for her only "in her place."

