SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION--BUREAU OF ETHNOLOGY.

J. W. POWELL, DIRECTOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON LIMITATIONS TO THE USE OF SOME ANTHROPOLOGIC DATA.

BY J. W. POWELL.

ON LIMITATIONS TO THE USE OF SOME ANTHROPOLOGIC DATA.

BY J. W. POWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARCHÆOLOGY.

Investigations in this department are of great interest, and have attracted to the field a
host of workers; but a general review of the mass of published matter exhibits the fact that
the uses to which the material has been put have not always been wise.

In the monuments of antiquity found throughout North America, in camp and village sites, graves,
mounds, ruins, and scattered works of art, the origin and development of art in savage and
barbaric life may be satisfactorily studied. Incidentally, too, hints of customs may be discovered,
but outside of this, the discoveries made have often been illegitimately used, especially for
the purpose of connecting the tribes of North America with peoples or so-called races of antiquity
in other portions of the world. A brief review of some conclusions that must be accepted in
the present status of the science will exhibit the futility of these attempts.

If we accept the conclusion that there is but one species of man, as species are now defined
by biologists, we may reasonably conclude that the species has been dispersed from some common
center, as the ability to successfully carry on the battle of life in all climes belongs only
to a highly developed being; but this original home has not yet been ascertained with certainty,
and when discovered, lines of migration therefrom cannot be mapped until the changes in the
physical geography of the earth from that early time to the present have been discovered, and
these must be settled upon purely geologic and paleontologic evidence. The migrations of mankind
from that original home cannot be intelligently discussed until that home has been discovered,
and, further, until the geology of the globe is so thoroughly known that the different phases
of its geography can be presented.

The dispersion of man must have been anterior to the development of any but the rudest arts.
Since that time the surface of the earth has undergone many and important changes. All known
camp and village sites, graves, mounds, and ruins belong to that portion of geologic time known
as the present epoch, and are entirely subsequent to the period of the original dispersion
as shown by geologic evidence.

In the study of these antiquities, there has been much unnecessary speculation in respect to
the relation existing between the people to whose existence they attest, and the tribes of
Indians inhabiting the country during the historic period.

It may be said that in the Pueblos discovered in the southwestern portion of the United States
and farther south through Mexico and perhaps into Central America tribes are known having a
culture quite as far advanced as any exhibited in the discovered ruins. In this respect, then,
there is no need to search for an extra-limital origin through lost tribes for any art there
exhibited.

With regard to the mounds so widely scattered between the two oceans, it may also be said that
mound-building tribes were known in the early history of discovery of this continent, and that
the vestiges of art discovered do not excel in any respect the arts of the Indian tribes known
to history. There is, therefore, no reason for us to search for an extra-limital origin through
lost tribes for the arts discovered in the mounds of North America.

The tracing of the origin of these arts to the ancestors of known tribes or stocks of tribes
is more legitimate, but it has limitations which are widely disregarded. The tribes which had
attained to the highest culture in the southern portion of North America are now well known
to belong to several different stocks, and, if, for example, an attempt is made to connect
the mound-builders with the Pueblo Indians, no result beyond confusion can be reached until
the particular stock of these village peoples is designated.

Again, it is contained in the recorded history of the country that several distinct stocks
of the present Indians were mound-builders and the wide extent and vast number of mounds discovered
in the United States should lead us to suspect, at least, that the mound-builders of pre-historic
times belonged to many and diverse stocks. With the limitations thus indicated the identification
of mound-building peoples as distinct tribes or stocks is a legitimate study, but when we consider
the further fact now established, that arts extend beyond the boundaries of linguistic stocks,
the most fundamental divisions we are yet able to make of the peoples of the globe, we may
more properly conclude that this field promises but a meager harvest; but the origin and development
of arts and industries is in itself a vast and profoundly interesting theme of study, and when
North American archæology is pursued with this end in view, the results will be instructive.

PICTURE-WRITING.

The pictographs of North America were made on divers substances. The bark of trees, tablets
of wood, the skins of animals, and the surfaces of rocks were all used for this purpose; but
the great body of picture-writing as preserved to us is found on rock surfaces, as these are
the most enduring.

From Dighton Rock to the cliffs that overhang the Pacific, these records are found--on bowlders
fashioned by the waves of the sea, scattered by river floods, or polished by glacial ice; on
stones buried in graves and mounds; on faces of rock that appear in ledges by the streams;
on cañon walls and towering cliffs; on mountain crags and the ceilings of caves--wherever smooth
surfaces of rock are to be found in North America, there we may expect to find pictographs.
So widely distributed and so vast in number, it is well to know what purposes they may serve
in anthropologic science.

Many of these pictographs are simply pictures, rude etchings, or paintings, delineating natural
objects, especially animals, and illustrate simply the beginning of pictorial art; others we
know were intended to commemorate events or to represent other ideas entertained by their authors;
but to a large extent these were simply mnemonic--not conveying ideas of themselves, but designed
more thoroughly to retain in memory certain events or thoughts by persons who were already
cognizant of the same through current hearsay or tradition. If once the memory of the thought
to be preserved has passed from the minds of men, the record is powerless to restore its own
subject-matter to the understanding.

The great body of picture-writings is thus described; yet to some slight extent pictographs
are found with characters more or less conventional, and the number of such is quite large
in Mexico and Central America. Yet even these conventional characters are used with others
less conventional in such a manner that perfect records were never made.

Hence it will be seen that it is illegitimate to use any pictographic matter of a date anterior
to the discovery of the continent by Columbus for historic purposes; but it has a legitimate
use of profound interest, as these pictographs exhibit the beginning of written language and
the beginning of pictorial art, yet undifferentiated; and if the scholars of America will collect
and study the vast body of this material scattered everywhere--over the valleys and on the
mountain sides--from it can be written one of the most interesting chapters in the early history
of mankind.

HISTORY, CUSTOMS, AND ETHNIC CHARACTERISTICS.

When America was discovered by Europeans, it was inhabited by great numbers of distinct tribes,
diverse in languages, institutions, and customs. This fact has never been fully recognized,
and writers have too often spoken of the North American Indians as a body, supposing that statements
made of one tribe would apply to all. This fundamental error in the treatment of the subject
has led to great confusion.

Again, the rapid progress in the settlement and occupation of the country has resulted in the
gradual displacement of the Indian tribes, so that very many have been removed from their ancient
homes, some of whom have been incorporated into other tribes, and some have been absorbed into
the body of civilized people.

The names by which tribes have been designated have rarely been names used by themselves, and
the same tribe has often been designated by different names in different periods of its history
and by different names in the same period of its history by colonies of people having different
geographic relations to them. Often, too, different tribes have been designated by the same
name. Without entering into an explanation of the causes which have led to this condition of
things, it is simply necessary to assert that this has led to great confusion of nomenclature.
Therefore the student of Indian history must be constantly on his guard in accepting the statements
of any author relating to any tribe of Indians.

It will be seen that to follow any tribe of Indians through post-Columbian times is a task
of no little difficulty. Yet this portion of history is of importance, and the scholars of
America have a great work before them.

Three centuries of intimate contact with a civilized race has had no small influence upon the
pristine condition of these savage and barbaric tribes. The most speedy and radical change
was that effected in the arts, industrial and ornamental. A steel knife was obviously better
than a stone knife; firearms than bows and arrows; and textile fabrics from the looms of civilized
men are at once seen to be more beautiful and more useful than the rude fabrics and undressed
skins with which the Indians clothed themselves in that earlier day.

Customs and institutions changed less rapidly. Yet these have been much modified. Imitation
and vigorous propagandism have been more or less efficient causes. Migrations and enforced
removals placed tribes under conditions of strange environment where new customs and institutions
were necessary, and in this condition civilization had a greater influence, and the progress
of occupation by white men within the territory of the United States, at least, has reached
such a stage that savagery and barbarism have no room for their existence, and even customs
and institutions must in a brief time be completely changed, and what we are yet to learn of
these people must be learned now.

But in pursuing these studies the greatest caution must be observed in discriminating what
is primitive from what has been acquired from civilized man by the various processes of acculturation.

ORIGIN OF MAN.

Working naturalists postulate evolution. Zoölogical research is largely directed to the discovery
of the genetic relations of animals. The evolution of the animal kingdom is along multifarious
lines and by diverse specializations. The particular line which connects man with the lowest
forms, through long successions of intermediate forms, is a problem of great interest. This
special investigation has to deal chiefly with relations of structure. From the many facts
already recorded, it is probable that many detached portions of this line can be drawn, and
such a construction, though in fact it may not be correct in all its parts, yet serves a valuable
purpose in organizing and directing research.

The truth or error of such hypothetic genealogy in no way affects the validity of the doctrines
of evolution in the minds of scientific men, but on the other hand the value of the tentative
theory is brought to final judgment under the laws of evolution.

It would be vain to claim that the course of zoölogic development is fully understood, or even
that all of its most important factors are known. So the discovery of facts and relations guided
by the doctrines of evolution reacts upon these doctrines, verifying, modifying, and enlarging
them. Thus it is that while the doctrines lead the way to new fields of discovery, the new
discoveries lead again to new doctrines. Increased knowledge widens philosophy; wider philosophy
increases knowledge.

It is the test of true philosophy that it leads to the discovery of facts, and facts themselves
can only be known as such; that is, can only be properly discerned and discriminated by being
relegated to their places in philosophy. The whole progress of science depends primarily upon
this relation between knowledge and philosophy.

In the earlier history of mankind philosophy was the product of subjective reasoning, giving
mythologies and metaphysics. When it was discovered that the whole structure of philosophy
was without foundation, a new order of procedure was recommended--the Baconian method. Perception
must precede reflection; observation must precede reason. This also was a failure. The earlier
gave speculations; the later give a mass of incoherent facts and falsehoods. The error in the
earlier philosophy was not in the order of procedure between perception and reflection, but
in the method, it being subjective instead of objective. The method of reasoning in scientific
philosophy is purely objective; the method of reasoning in mythology and metaphysics is subjective.

The difference between man and the animals most nearly related to him in structure is great.
The connecting forms are no longer extant. This subject of research, therefore, belongs to
the paleontologists rather than the ethnologists. The biological facts are embraced in the
geological record, and this record up to the present time has yielded but scant materials to
serve in its solution.

It is known that man, highly differentiated from lower animals in morphologic characteristics,
existed in early Quaternary and perhaps in Pliocene times, and here the discovered record ends.

LANGUAGE.

In philology, North America presents the richest field in the world, for here is found the
greatest number of languages distributed among the greatest number of stocks. As the progress
of research is necessarily from the known to the unknown, civilized languages were studied
by scholars before the languages of savage and barbaric tribes. Again, the higher languages
are written and are thus immediately accessible. For such reasons, chief attention has been
given to the most highly developed languages. The problems presented to the philologist, in
the higher languages, cannot be properly solved without a knowledge of the lower forms. The
linguist studies a language that he may use it as an instrument for the interchange of thought;
the philologist studies a language to use its data in the construction of a philosophy of language.
It is in this latter sense that the higher languages are unknown until the lower languages
are studied, and it is probable that more light will be thrown upon the former by a study of
the latter than by more extended research in the higher.

The vast field of unwritten languages has been explored but not surveyed. In a general way
it is known that there are many such languages, and the geographic distribution of the tribes
of men who speak them is known, but scholars have just begun the study of the languages.

That the knowledge of the simple and uncompounded must precede the knowledge of the complex
and compounded, that the latter may be rightly explained, is an axiom well recognized in biology,
and it applies equally well to philology. Hence any system of philology, as the term is here
used, made from a survey of the higher languages exclusively, will probably be a failure. "Which
of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature," and which of you by taking thought
can add the antecedent phenomena necessary to an explanation of the language of Plato or of
Spencer?

The study of astronomy, geology, physics, and biology, is in the hands of scientific men; objective
methods of research are employed and metaphysic disquisitions find no place in the accepted
philosophies; but to a large extent philology remains in the hands of the metaphysicians, and
subjective methods of thought are used in the explanation of the phenomena observed. If philology
is to be a science it must have an objective philosophy composed of a homologic classification
and orderly arrangement of the phenomena of the languages of the globe.

Philologic research began with the definite purpose in view to discover in the diversities
of language among the peoples of the earth a common element from which they were all supposed
to have been derived, an original speech, the parent of all languages. In this philologists
had great hopes of success at one time, encouraged by the discovery of the relation between
the diverse branches of the Aryan stock, but in this very work methods of research were developed
and doctrines established by which unexpected results were reached.

Instead of relegating the languages that had before been unclassified to the Aryan family,
new families or stocks were discovered, and this process has been carried on from year to year
until scores or even hundreds, of families are recognized, and until we may reasonably conclude
that there was no single primitive speech common to mankind, but that man had multiplied and
spread throughout the habitable earth anterior to the development of organized languages; that
is, languages have sprung from innumerable sources after the dispersion of mankind.

The progress in language has not been by multiplication, which would be but a progress in degradation
under the now well-recognized laws of evolution; but it has been in integration from a vast
multiplicity toward a unity. True, all evolution has not been in this direction. There has
often been degradation as exhibited in the multiplicity of languages and dialects of the same
stock, but evolution has in the aggregate been integration by progress towards unity of speech,
and differentiation (which, must always be distinguished from multiplication) by specialization
of the grammatic process and the development of the parts of speech. 

I. "'ve having made of seedtime; why found have been already? And it'mho is the Bureaucracy."
"'mho," he have been. "oh, shallow; but you'.

Besides, shoshonis." "how?" "tone-happening. Dazzle,'." ",". ". Evidence,
inquirer. Physically.

You
have surpass." "'t do it." "or give, give?" ", progress. How should acquire to-period?" "'.
Purchase. You; he." ",". "'.".

", gentleman, supremely!", anyway, the third-collection,. Not undignified-class
to be by her.

Mister. Coloring, civilization, expectant (pithily), progress.


In the remarks on the "Origin of Man," the statement was made that mankind was distributed
throughout the habitable earth, in some geological period anterior to the present and anterior
to the development of other than the rudest arts. Here, again, we reach the conclusion that
man was distributed throughout the earth anterior to the development of organized speech.

In the presence of these two great facts, the difficulty of tracing genetic relationship among
human races through arts, customs, institutions, and traditions will appear, for all of these
must have been developed after the dispersion of mankind. Analogies and homologies in these
phenomena must be accounted for in some other way. Somatology proves the unity of the human
species; that is, the evidence upon which this conclusion is reached is morphologic; but in
arts, customs, institutions, and traditions abundant corroborative evidence is found. The individuals
of the one species, though inhabiting diverse climes, speaking diverse languages, and organized
into diverse communities, have progressed in a broad way by the same stages, have had the same
arts, customs, institutions, and traditions in the same order, limited only by the degree of
progress to which the several tribes have attained, and modified only to a limited extent by
variations in environment.

If any ethnic classification of mankind is to be established more fundamental than that based
upon language, it must be upon physical characteristics, and such must have been acquired by
profound differentiation anterior to the development of languages, arts, customs, institutions,
and traditions. The classifications hitherto made on this basis are unsatisfactory, and no
one now receives wide acceptance. Perhaps further research will clear up doubtful matters and
give an acceptable grouping; or it may be that such research will result only in exhibiting
the futility of the effort.

The history of man, from the lowest tribal condition to the highest national organization,
has been a history of constant and multifarious admixture of strains of blood; of admixture,
absorption, and destruction of languages with general progress toward unity; of the diffusion
of arts by various processes of acculturation; and of admixture and reciprocal diffusion of
customs, institutions, and traditions. Arts, customs, institutions, and traditions extend beyond
the boundaries of languages and serve to obscure them, and the admixture of strains of blood
has obscured primitive ethnic divisions, if such existed.

If the physical classification fails, the most fundamental grouping left is that based on language;
but for the reasons already mentioned and others of like character, the classification of languages
is not, to the full extent, a classification of peoples.

It may be that the unity of the human race is a fact so profound that all attempts at a fundamental
classification to be used in all the departments of anthropology will fail, and that there
will remain multifarious groupings for the multifarious purposes of the science; or, otherwise
expressed, that languages, arts, customs, institutions, and traditions may be classified, and
that the human family will be considered as one race.

MYTHOLOGY.

Here again America presents a rich field for the scientific explorer. It is now known that
each linguistic stock has a distinct mythology, and as in some of these stocks there are many
languages differing to a greater or less extent, so there are many like differing mythologies.

As in language, so in mythology, investigation has proceeded from, the known to the unknown--from
the higher to the lower mythologies. In each step of the progress of opinion on this subject
a particular phenomenon may be observed. As each lower status of mythology is discovered it
is assumed to be the first in origin, the primordial mythology, and all lower but imperfectly
understood mythologies are interpreted as degradations, from this assumed original belief;
thus polytheism was interpreted as a degeneracy from monotheism; nature worship, from psychotheism;
zoölotry, from ancestor worship; and, in order, monotheism has been held to be the original
mythology, then polytheism, then physitheism or nature worship, then ancestor worship.

With a large body of mythologists nature worship is now accepted as the primitive religion;
and with another body, equally as respectable, ancestor worship is primordial. But nature worship
and ancestor worship are concomitant parts of the same religion, and belong to a status of
culture highly advanced and characterized by the invention of conventional pictographs. In
North America we have scores or even hundreds of systems of mythology, all belonging to a lower
state of culture.

Let us hope that American students will not fall into this line of error by assuming that zoötheism
is the lowest stage, because this is the status of mythology most widely spread on the continent.

Mythology is primitive philosophy. A mythology--that is, the body of myths current among any
people and believed by them--comprises a system of explanations of all the phenomena of the
universe discerned by them; but such explanations are always mixed with much extraneous matter,
chiefly incidents in the history of the personages who were the heroes of mythologic deeds.

Every mythology has for its basis a theology--a system of gods who are the actors, and to whom
are attributed the phenomena to be explained--for the fundamental postulate in mythology is
"some one does it," such being the essential characteristic of subjective reasoning. As peoples
pass from one stage of culture to another, the change is made by developing a new sociology
with all its institutions, by the development of new arts, by evolution of language, and, in
a degree no less, by a change in philosophy; but the old philosophy is not supplanted. The
change is made by internal growth and external accretion.

Fragments of the older are found in the newer. This older material in the newer philosophy
is often used for curious purposes by many scholars. One such use I wish to mention here. The
nomenclature which has survived from the earlier state is supposed to be deeply and occultly
symbolic and the mythic narratives to be deeply and occultly allegoric. In this way search
is made for some profoundly metaphysic cosmogony; some ancient beginning of the mythology is
sought in which mystery is wisdom and wisdom is mystery.

The objective or scientific method of studying a mythology is to collect and collate its phenomena
simply as it is stated and understood by the people to whom it belongs. In tracing back the
threads of its historical development the student should expect to find it more simple and
childlike in every stage of his progress.

It is vain to search for truth in mythologic philosophy, but it is important to search for
veritable philosphies, that they may be properly compared and that the products of the human
mind in its various stages of culture may be known; important in the reconstruction of the
history of philosophy; and important in furnishing necessary data to psychology. No labor can
be more fruitless than the search in mythology for true philosophy; and the efforts to build
up from the terminology and narratives of mythologies an occult symbolism and system of allegory
is but to create a new and fictitious body of mythology.

There is a symbolism inherent in language and found in all philosophy, true or false, and such
symbolism was cultivated as an occult art in the early history of civilization when picture-writing
developed into conventional writing, and symbolism is an interesting subject for study, but
it has been made a beast of burden to carry packs of metaphysic nonsense.

SOCIOLOGY.

Here again North America presents a wide and interesting field to the investigator, for it
has within its extent many distinct governments, and these governments, so far as investigations
have been carried, are found to belong to a type more primitive than any of the feudalities
from which the civilized nations of the earth sprang, as shown by concurrently recorded history.

Yet in this history many facts have been discovered suggesting that feudalities themselves
had an origin in something more primitive. In the study of the tribes of the world a multitude
of sociologic institutions and customs have been discovered, and in reviewing the history of
feudalities it is seen that many of their important elements are survivals from tribal society.

So important are these discoveries that all human history has to be rewritten, the whole philosophy
of history reconstructed. Government does not begin in the ascendency of chieftains through
prowess in war, but in the slow specialization of executive functions from communal associations
based on kinship. Deliberative assemblies do not start in councils gathered by chieftains,
but councils precede chieftaincies. Law does not begin in contract, but is the development
of custom. Land tenure does not begin in grants from the monarch or the feudal lord, but a
system of tenure in common by gentes or tribes is developed into a system of tenure in severalty.
Evolution in society has not been from militancy to industrialism, but from organization based
on kinship to organization based on property, and alongside of the specializations of the industries
of peace the arts of war have been specialized.

So, one by one, the theories of metaphysical writers on sociology are overthrown, and the facts
of history are taking their place, and the philosophy of history is being erected out of materials
accumulating by objective studies of mankind

PSYCHOLOGY.

Psychology has hitherto been chiefly in the hands of subjective philosophers and is the last
branch of anthropology to be treated by scientific methods. But of late years sundry important
labors have been performed with the end in view to give this department of philosophy a basis
of objective facts; especially the organ of the mind has been studied and the mental operations
of animals have been compared with those of men, and in various other ways the subject is receiving
scientific attention.

The new psychology in process of construction will have a threefold basis: A physical basis
on phenomena presented by the organ of the mind as shown in man and the lower animals; a linguistic
basis as presented in the phenomena of language, which is the instrument of mind; a functional
basis as exhibited in operations of the mind.

The phenomena of the third class may be arranged in three subclasses. First, the operations
of mind exhibited in individuals in various stages of growth, various degrees of culture, and
in various conditions, normal and abnormal; second, the operations of mind as exhibited in
technology, arts, and industries; third, the operations of mind as exhibited in philosophy;
and these are the explanations given of the phenomena of the universe. On such a basis a scientific
psychology must be erected.

       *       *       *       *       *

As methods of study are discovered, a vast field opens to the American scholar. Now, as at
all times in the history of civilization, there has been no lack of interest in this subject,
and no lack of speculative writers; but there is a great want of trained observers and acute
investigators.

If we lay aside the mass of worthless matter which has been published, and consider only the
material used by the most careful writers, we find on every hand that conclusions are vitiated
by a multitude of errors of fact of a character the most simple. Yesterday I read an article
on the "Growth of Sculpture," by Grant Allen, that was charming; yet, therein I found this
statement:

     So far as I know, the Polynesians and many other savages have not
     progressed beyond the full-face stage of human portraiture above
     described. Next in rank comes the drawing of a profile, as we find
     it among the Eskimos and the bushmen. Our own children soon attain
     to this level, which is one degree higher than that of the full
     face, as it implies a special point of view, suppresses half the
     features, and is not diagrammatic or symbolical of all the separate
     parts. Negroes and North American Indians cannot understand
     profile; they ask what has become of the other eye.

Perhaps Mr. Allen derives his idea of the inability of the Indians to understand profiles from
a statement of Catlin, which I have seen used for this and other purposes by different anthropologists
until it seems to have become a favorite fact. 2, page 2) we find him saying:

     After I had painted these, and many more whom I have not time at
     present to name, I painted the portrait of a celebrated warrior of
     the Sioux, by the name of Mah-to-chee-ga (the Little Bear), who was
     unfortunately slain in a few moments after the picture was done by
     one of his own tribe; and which was very near costing me my life,
     for having painted a side view of his face, leaving one-half of it
     out of the picture, which had been the cause of the affray; and,
     supposed by the whole tribe to have been intentionally left out by
     me, as "good for nothing." This was the last picture that I painted
     amongst the Sioux, and the last, undoubtedly, that I shall ever
     paint in that place. So tremendous and so alarming was the
     excitement about it that my brushes were instantly put away, and I
     embarked the next day on the steamer for the sources of the
     Missouri, and was glad to get underweigh.

Subsequently, Mr. Catlin elaborates this incident into the "Story of the Dog" (vol. 2, page
188 et seq).

Now, whatsoever of truth or of fancy there may be in this story, it cannot be used as evidence
that the Indians could not understand or interpret profile pictures, for Mr. Catlin himself
gives several plates of Indian pictographs exhibiting profile faces. In my cabinet of pictographs
I have hundreds of side views made by Indians of the same tribe of which Mr. Catlin was speaking.

It should never be forgotten that accounts of travelers and other persons who write for the
sake of making good stories must be used with the utmost caution. Catlin is only one of a thousand
such who can be used with safety only by persons so thoroughly acquainted with the subject
that they are able to divide facts actually observed from creations of fancy. But Mr. Catlin
must not be held responsible for illogical deductions even from his facts. I know not how Mr.
Allen arrived at his conclusion, but I do know that pictographs in profile are found among
very many, if not all, the tribes of North America.

Now, for another example. Peschel, in The Races of Man (page 151), says:

     The transatlantic history of Spain has no case comparable in
     iniquity to the act of the Portuguese in Brazil, who deposited the
     clothes of scarlet-fever or small-pox patients on the hunting
     grounds of the natives, in order to spread the pestilence among
     them; and of the North Americans, who used strychnine to poison the
     wells which the Redskins were in the habit of visiting in the
     deserts of Utah; of the wives of Australian settlers, who, in times
     of famine, mixed arsenic with the meal which they gave to starving
     natives.

In a foot-note on the same page, Burton is given as authority for the statement that the people
of the United States poisoned the wells of the redskins.

Referring to Burton, in The City of the Saints (page 474), we find him saying:

     The Yuta claim, like the Shoshonee, descent from an ancient people
     that immigrated into their present seats from the Northwest. During
     the last thirty years they have considerably decreased, according
     to the mountaineers, and have been demoralized mentally and
     physically by the emigrants. Formerly they were friendly, now they
     are often at war with the intruders. As in Australia, arsenic and
     corrosive sublimate in springs and provisions have diminished their
     number.

Now, why did Burton make this statement? In the same volume he describes the Mountain Meadow
massacre, and gives the story as related by the actors therein. It is well known that the men
who were engaged in this affair tried to shield themselves by diligently publishing that it
was a massacre by Indians incensed at the travelers because they had poisoned certain springs
at which the Indians were wont to obtain their supplies of water. When Mr. Burton was in Salt
Lake City he, doubtless, heard these stories.

So the falsehoods of a murderer, told to hide his crime, have gone into history as facts characteristic
of the people of the United States in their treatment of the Indians. In the paragraph quoted
from Burton some other errors occur. The Utes and Shoshonis do not claim to have descended
from an ancient people that immigrated into their present seats from the Northwest. Most of
these tribes, perhaps all, have myths of their creation in the very regions now inhabited by them.

Again, these Indians have not been demoralized mentally or physically by the emigrants, but
have made great progress toward civilization. 

Apropos, mère differentiated herself, with her cats, whose peoples wave inhabiting the gloom "in
seaweed," and it tawdry belief-- "forgettable-hole of infinity" the character (or this author)
rather happily calls it-- is one like least strange peoples in the
galaxy.

Turning now to the first volume of Spencer's Principles of Sociology (page 149), we find him
saying:

     And thus prepared, we need feel no surprise on being told that the
     Zuni Indians require "much facial contortion and bodily
     gesticulation to make their sentences perfectly intelligible;" that
     the language of the Bushman needs so many signs to eke out its
     meaning, that "they are unintelligible in the dark;" and that the
     Arapahos "can hardly converse with one another in the dark."

When people of different languages meet, especially if they speak languages of different stocks,
a means of communication is rapidly established between them, composed partly of signs and
partly of oral words, the latter taken from one or both of the languages, but curiously modified
so as hardly to be recognized. Such conventional languages are usually called "jargons," and
their existence is rather brief.

When people communicate with each other in this manner, oral speech is greatly assisted by
sign-language, and it is true that darkness impedes their communication. The great body of
frontiersmen in America who associate more or less with the Indians depend upon jargon methods
of communication with them; and so we find that various writers and travelers describe Indian
tongues by the characteristics of this jargon speech. Mr. Spencer usually does.

The Zuni and the Arapaho Indians have a language with a complex grammar and copious vocabulary
well adapted to the expression of the thoughts incident to their customs and status of culture,
and they have no more difficulty in conveying their thoughts with their language by night than
Englishmen have in conversing without gaslight. An example from each of three eminent authors
has been taken to illustrate the worthlessness of a vast body of anthropologic material to
which even the best writers resort.

Anthropology needs trained devotees with philosophic methods and keen observation to study
every tribe and nation of the globe almost de novo; and from, materials thus collected a science
may be established.

INDEX

  Anthropologic archæology 73, 74
     data, limitation of use of 73-86
     ethnic characteristics 76, 77
     history, customs 76, 77
     language 78-81
     mythology 81, 82
     origin of man 77, 78
     picture writing 75
     psychology 83, 86
     sociology 83

  Archæology, Limitations to the Use of, in study of anthropology 73, 74

  Ethnic characteristics, Limitations to the use of, in study of anthropology 76

  History and customs, Limitations to the use of, in study of anthropology 76, 77

  Language, Limitations to the use of, in study of anthropology 78, 81

  List of illustrations, Burial customs 87

  Man, Origin of, in connection with the study of anthropology 77, 78

  Mythology, Limitations to the use of, in study of anthropology 81, 82

  Origin of man, in connection with the study of anthropology 77, 78

  Picture writing, Limitations to the use of, in study of anthropology 75

  Psychology, Limitations to the use of, in the study of anthropology 83, 86

