Part II:  ON THE NATURE AND ORIGIN OF THE MIND

PREFACE I now pass on to explaining the results, which must necessarily follow from the essence
of  God, or of the eternal and infinite being; not, indeed, all of them (for we proved in Part
i.,  Prop. xvi., that an infinite number must follow in an infinite number of ways), but only
those which are able to lead us, as it were by the hand, to the knowledge of the human  mind
and its highest blessedness.

DEFINITIONS I.  By 'body' I mean a mode which expresses in a certain determinate manner the
essence  of God, in so far as he is considered as an extended thing.  (See Pt. i., Prop. xxv. Cor.)

II.  I consider as belonging to the essence of a thing that, which being given, the thing is
necessarily given also, and, which being removed, the thing is necessarily removed also;  in
other words, that without which the thing, and which itself without the thing, can neither
be nor be conceived.

III. By 'idea,' I mean the mental conception which is formed by the mind as a thinking  thing.

>>>>>Explanation--I say 'conception' rather than perception, because the word perception  seems
to imply that the mind is passive in respect to the object; whereas conception seems  to express
an activity of the mind.

IV.  By 'an adequate idea,' I mean an idea which, in so far as it is considered in itself,
without relation to the object, has all the properties or intrinsic marks of a true idea.

>>>>>Explanation--I say 'intrinsic,' in order to exclude that mark which is extrinsic,  namely,
the agreement between the idea and its object (ideatum).

V.  'Duration' is the indefinite continuance of existing.

>>>>>Explanation--I say 'indefinite,' because it cannot be determined through the  existence
itself of the existing thing, or by its efficient cause, which necessarily gives the  existence
of the thing, but does not take it away.

VI.  'Reality' and 'perfection' I use as synonymous terms.

VII.  By 'particular things,' I mean things which are finite and have a conditioned  existence;
but if several individual things concur in one action, so as to be all  simultaneously the
effect of one cause, I consider them all, so far, as one particular  thing.

 AXIOMS  I.  The essence of man does not involve necessary
existence, that is, it may, in the order of  nature, come to pass
that this or that man does or does not exist.

II.  Man thinks.

III.  Modes of thinking, such as love, desire, or any other of the passions, do not take place,
unless there be in the same individual an idea of the thing loved, desired, &c.  But the idea
can exist without the presence of any other mode of thinking.

IV.  We perceive that a certain body is affected in many ways.

V.  We feel and perceive no particular things, save bodies and modes of thought.

N.B.  The Postulates are given after the conclusion of Prop. xiii.

 PROPOSITIONS  I.  Thought is an attribute of God, or God is a
thinking thing.

>>>>>Proof--Particular thoughts, or this and that thought, are modes which, in a certain  conditioned
manner, express the nature of God (Pt. i., Prop. xxv., Cor.).  God therefore  possesses the
attribute (Pt. i., Def. v.) of which the concept is involved in all particular  thoughts, which
latter are conceived thereby.  Thought, therefore, is one of the infinite  attributes of God,
which express God's eternal and infinite essence (Pt. i., Def. vi.).  In  other words, God
is a thinking thing.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--This proposition is also evident from the fact, that we are able to conceive  an
infinite thinking being.  For, in proportion as a thinking being is conceived as thinking 
more thoughts, so is it conceived as containing more reality or perfection.  Therefore a  being,
which can think an infinite number of things in an infinite number of ways, is,  necessarily,
in respect of thinking, infinite.  As, therefore, from the consideration of  thought alone,
we conceive an infinite being, thought is necessarily (Pt. i., Deff. iv. and vi.)  one of the
infinite attributes of God, as we were desirous of showing.

II.  Extension is an attribute of God, or God is an extended thing.

>>>>>Proof--The proof of this proposition is similar to that of the last.

III.  In God there is necessarily the idea not only of his essence, but also of all things
which  necessarily follow from his essence.

>>>>>Proof--God (by the first Prop. of this Part) can think an infinite number of things in
infinite ways, or (what is the same thing, by Prop. xvi., Part i.) can form the idea of his
essence, and of all things which necessarily follow therefrom.  Now all that is in the power
of God necessarily is (Pt. i., Prop. xxxv.).  Therefore, such an idea as we are considering
necessarily is, and in God alone.  Q.E.D.  (Part i., Prop. xv.)

*****Note--The multitude understand by the power of God the free will of God, and the  right
over all things that exist, which latter are accordingly generally considered as  contingent.
For it is said that God has the power to destroy all things, and to reduce them  to nothing.
Further, the power of God is very often likened to the power of kings.  But  this doctrine
we have refuted (Pt. i., Prop. xxxii., Cors. i. and ii.), and we have shown  (Part i., Prop.
xvi.) that God acts by the same necessity, as that by which he understands  himself; in other
words, as it follows from the necessity of the divine nature (as all admit),  that God understands
himself, so also does it follow by the same necessity, that God  performs infinite acts in
infinite ways.  We further showed (Part i., Prop. xxxiv.), that  God's power is identical with
God's essence in action; therefore it is as impossible for us  to conceive God as not acting,
as to conceive him as non-existent.  If we might pursue  the subject further, I could point
out, that the power which is commonly attributed to God  is not only human (as showing that
God is conceived by the multitude as a man, or in the  likeness of a man), but involves a negation
of power.  However, I am unwilling to go over  the same ground so often.  I would only beg
the reader again and again, to turn over  frequently in his mind what I have said in Part i.
from Prop. xvi. to the end.  No one will  be able to follow my meaning, unless he is scrupulously
careful not to confound the power  of God with the human power and right of kings.

IV.  The idea of God, from which an infinite number of things follow in infinite ways, can
only be one.

>>>>>Proof--Infinite intellect comprehends nothing save the attributes of God and his  modifications
(Part i., Prop. xxx.).  Now God is one (Part i., Prop. xiv., Cor.).  Therefore  the idea of
God, wherefrom an infinite number of things follow in infinite ways, can only  be one.  Q.E.D.

V.  The actual being of ideas owns God as its cause, only in so far as he is considered as
a  thinking thing, not in so far as he is unfolded in any other attribute; that is, the ideas
both  of the attributes of God and of particular things do not own as their efficient cause
their  objects (ideata) or the things perceived, but God himself in so far as he is a thinking
thing.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is evident from Prop. iii. of this Part.  We there drew the  conclusion,
that God can form the idea of his essence, and of all things which follow  necessarily therefrom,
solely because he is a thinking thing, and not because he is the  object of his own idea. 
Wherefore the actual being of ideas owns for cause God, in so far  as he is a thinking thing.
It may be differently proved as follows:  the actual being of ideas  is (obviously) a mode
of thought, that is (Part i., Prop. xxv., Cor.) a mode which expresses  in a certain manner
the nature of God, in so far as he is a thinking thing, and therefore  (Part i., Prop. x.)
involves the conception of no other attribute of God, and consequently  (by Part i., Ax. iv.)
is not the effect of any attribute save thought.  Therefore the actual  being of ideas owns
God as its cause, in so far as he is considered as a thinking thing, &c.   Q.E.D.

VI.  The modes of any given attribute are caused by God, in so far as he is considered  through
the attribute of which they are modes, and not in so far as he is considered through  any other
attribute.

>>>>>Proof--Each attribute is conceived through itself, without any other part (Part i.,  Prop.
x.); wherefore the modes of each attribute involve the conception of that attribute,  but not
of any other.  Thus (Part i., Ax. iv.) they are caused by God, only in so far as he  is considered
through the attribute whose modes they are, and not in so far as he is  considered through
any other.  Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--Hence the actual being of things, which are not modes of thought, does  not
follow from the divine nature, because that nature has prior knowledge of the things.   Things
represented in ideas follow, and are derived from their particular attribute, in the  same
manner, and with the same necessity as ideas follow (according to what we have  shown) from
the attribute of thought.

VII.  The order and connection of ideas is the same as the order and connection of things.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is evident from Part i., Ax. iv.  For the idea of everything 
that is caused depends on a knowledge of the cause, whereof it is an effect.

<<<<<Corollary--Hence God's power of thinking is equal to his realized power of action-- that
is, whatsoever follows from the infinite nature of God in the world of extension  (formaliter),
follows without exception in the same order and connection from the idea of  God in the world
of thought (objective).  For instance, a circle existing in nature,  and the idea of a circle
existing, which is also in God, are one and the same thing displayed  through different attributes.
Thus, whether we conceive nature under the attribute of  extension, or under the attribute
of thought, or under any other attribute, we shall find the  same order, or one and the same
chain of causes--that is, the same things following in  either case.

I said that God is the cause of an idea--for instance, of the idea of a circle,--in so far
as he  is a thinking thing; and of a circle, in so far as he is an extended thing, simply because
the  actual being of the idea of a circle can only be perceived as a proximate cause through
another mode of thinking, and that again through another, and so on to infinity; so that, so
long as we consider things as modes of thinking, we must explain the order of the whole of
nature, or the whole chain of causes, through the attribute of thought only.  And, in so far
as we consider things as modes of extension, we must explain the order of the whole of  nature
through the attributes of extension only; and so on, in the case of the other  attributes.
Wherefore of things as they are in themselves God is really the cause, inasmuch  as he consists
of infinite attributes.  I cannot for the present explain my meaning more  clearly.

VIII.  The ideas of particular things, or of modes, that do not exist, must be comprehended
in the infinite idea of God, in the same way as the formal essences of particular things or
modes are contained in the attributes of God.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is evident from the last; it is understood more clearly from 
the preceding note.

<<<<<Corollary--Hence, so long as particular things do not
exist, except in so far as they  are comprehended in the
attributes of God, their representations in thought or ideas do
not  exist, except in so far as the infinite idea of God exists;
and when the particular things are  said to exist, not only in so
far as they are involved in the attributes of God, but also in so
 far as they are said to continue, their ideas will also involve
existence, through which they  are said to continue.

*****Note--If anyone desires an example to throw more light on
this question, I shall, I  fear, not be able to give him any,
which adequately explains the thing of which I here  speak,
inasmuch as it is unique; however, I will endeavour to
illustrate it as far as possible.   The nature of a circle is
such that if any number of straight lines intersect within it,
the  rectangles formed by their segments will be equal to one
another; thus, infinite equal  rectangles are contained in a
circle.  Yet none of these rectangles can be said to exist, 
except in so far as the circle exists; nor can the idea of any of
these rectangles be said to  exist, except in so far as they are
comprehended in the idea of the circle.  Let us grant that, 
from this infinite number of rectangles, two only exist.  The
ideas of these two not only  exist, in so far as they are
contained in the idea of the circle, but also as they involve the
 existence of those rectangles; wherefore they are distinguished
from the remaining ideas of  the remaining rectangles.

IX.  The idea of an individual thing actually existing is caused by God, not in so far as he
is infinite, but in so far as he is considered as affected by another idea of a thing actually
existing, of which he is the cause, in so far as he is affected by a third idea, and so on
to  infinity.

>>>>>Proof--The idea of an individual thing actually existing is an individual mode of  thinking,
and is distinct from other modes (by the Cor. and Note to Prop. viii. of this part);  thus
(by Prop. vi. of this part) it is caused by God, in so far only as he is a thinking thing.
But not (by Prop. xxviii. of Part i.) in so far as he is a thing thinking absolutely, only
in so  far as he is considered as affected by another mode of thinking; and he is the cause
of this  latter, as being affected by a third, and so on to infinity.  Now, the order and connection
of ideas is (by Prop. vii. of this book) the same as the order and connection of causes.  
Therefore of a given individual idea another individual idea, or God, in so far as he is  considered
as modified by that idea, is the cause; and of this second idea God is the  cause, in so far
as he is affected by another idea, and so on to infinity.  Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--Whatsoever takes place in the individual object of any idea, the  knowledge
thereof is in God, in so far only as he has the idea of the object.

>>>>>Proof--Whatsoever takes place in the object of any idea, its idea is in God (by  Prop.
iii. of this part), not in so far as he is infinite, but in so far as he is considered as 
affected by another idea of an individual thing (by the last Prop.); but (by Prop. vii. of
this part) the order and connection of ideas is the same as the order and connection of  things.
The knowledge, therefore, of that which takes place in any individual object will  be in God,
in so far only as he has the idea of that object.  Q.E.D.

X.  The being of substance does not appertain to the essence of man--in other words,  substance
does not constitute the actual being (forma) of man.

>>>>>Proof--The being of substance involves necessary existence (Part i., Prop. vii.).   If,
therefore, the being of substance appertains to the essence of man, substance being  granted,
man would necessarily be granted also (II. Def. ii.), and, consequently, man would  necessarily
exist, which is absurd (II. Ax. i.).  Therefore &c.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--This proposition may also be proved from I.v., in which it is shown that there 
cannot be two substances of the same nature; for as there may be many men, the being of  substance
is not that which constitutes the actual being of man.  Again, the proposition is  evident
from the other properties of substance--namely, that substance is in its nature  infinite,
immutable, indivisible, &c., as anyone may see for himself.

<<<<<Corollary--Hence it follows, that the essence of man is constituted by certain  modifications
of the attributes of God.  For (by the last Prop.) the being of substance does  not belong
to the essence of man.  That essence therefore (by I. xv.) is something which is  in God, and
which without God can neither be nor be conceived, whether it be a  modification (I. xxv. Cor.),
or a mode which expresses God's nature in a certain  conditioned manner.

*****Note--Everyone must surely admit, that nothing can be or be conceived without  God.  All
men agree that God is the one and only cause of all things, both of their essence  and of their
existence; that is, God is not only the cause of things in respect to their being  made (secundum
fieri), but also in respect to their being (secundum esse).

At the same time many assert, that that, without which a thing cannot be nor be conceived,
belongs to the essence of that thing; wherefore they believe that either the nature of God
appertains to the essence of created things, or else that created things can be or be  conceived
without God; or else, as is more probably the case, they hold inconsistent  doctrines.  I think
the cause for such confusion is mainly, that they do not keep to the  proper order of philosophic
thinking.  The nature of God, which should be reflected on  first, inasmuch as it is prior
both in the order of knowledge and the order of nature, they  have taken to be last in the
order of knowledge, and have put into the first place what they  call the objects of sensation;
hence, while they are considering natural phenomena, they  give no attention at all to the
divine nature, and, when afterwards they apply their mind to  the study of the divine nature,
they are quite unable to bear in mind the first hypotheses,  with which they have overlaid
the knowledge of natural phenomena, inasmuch as such  hypotheses are no help towards understanding
the divine nature.  So that it is hardly to be  wondered at, that these persons contradict
themselves freely.

However, I pass over this point.  My intention her was only to give a reason for not saying,
that that, without which a thing cannot be or be conceived, belongs to the essence of that
thing:  individual things cannot be or be conceived without God, yet God does not  appertain
to their essence.  (II. Def. ii.)

XI.  The first element, which constitutes the actual being of the human mind, is the idea of
some particular thing actually existing.

>>>>>Proof--The essence of man (by the Cor. of the last Prop.) is constituted by certain  modes
of the attributes of God, namely (by II. Ax. ii.), by the modes of thinking, of all  which
(by II. Ax. iii.) the idea is prior in nature, and, when the idea is given, the other  modes
(namely, those of which the idea is prior in nature) must be in the same individual  (by the
same Axiom).  Therefore an idea is the first element constituting the human mind.   But not
the idea of a non-existent thing, for then (II. viii. Cor.) the idea itself cannot be  said
to exist; it must therefore be the idea of something actually existing.  But not of an  infinite
thing.  For an infinite thing (I. xxi., xxii.), must always necessarily exist; this would 
(by II. Ax. i.) involve an absurdity.  Therefore the first element, which constitutes the 
actual being of the human mind, is the idea of something actually existing.

*****Note--Here, I doubt not, readers will come to a stand, and will call to mind many  things
which will cause them to hesitate; I therefore beg them to accompany me slowly,  step by step,
and not to pronounce on my statements, till they have read to the end.

