MYTHS AND LEGENDS
                                   OF
                              OUR OWN LAND

                                   By
                           Charles M. Skinner

                                Vol. 5. Trouble has been frequently
associated with this neighborhood, as it is now suggested in the noisy
symbolry of war. In prehistoric days it was the site of an aboriginal
town, whose denizens were like other Indians in their love for fight and
their willingness to shed blood. Great was the joy of all these citizens
when a scouting party came in, one day, bringing with them the daughter
of one of their toughest old hunters and a young buck, from another
faction, who had come a-courting; her in the neighboring shades.

Capture meant death, usually, and he knew it, but he held himself proudly and refused to ask
for mercy. It was resolved that he should die. The father's scorn for his daughter, that she
should thus consort with an enemy, was so great that he was on the point of offering her as
a joint sacrifice with her lover, when she fell on her knees before him and began a fervent
appeal, not for herself, but for the prisoner. She would do anything to prove her strength,
her duty, her obedience, if they would set him free. He had done injury to none. What justice
lay in putting him to the torture?

Half in earnest, half in humor, the chief answered, "Suppose we were to set him on the farther
shore of the Potomac, do you love him well enough to swim to him?"

"I do."

"The river is wide and deep."

"I would drown in it rather than that harm should come to him."

The old chief ordered the captive, still bound, to be taken to a point on the Virginia shore,
full two miles away, in one of their canoes, and when the boat was on the water he gave the
word to the girl, who instantly plunged in and followed it. The chief and the father embarked
in another birch--ostensibly to see that the task was honestly fulfilled; really, perhaps,
to see that the damsel did not drown. It was a long course, but the maid was not as many of
our city misses are, and she reached the bank, tired, but happy, for she had saved her lover
and gained him for a husband.

THE MOANING SISTERS

Above Georgetown, on the Potomac River, are three rocks, known as the Three Sisters, not merely
because of their resemblance to each other--for they are parts of a submerged reef--but because
of a tradition that, more than a hundred years ago, a boat in which three sisters had gone
out for a row was swung against one of these rocks. The day was gusty and the boat was upset.
All three of the girls were drowned. Either the sisters remain about this perilous spot or
the rocks have prescience; at least, those who live near them on the shore hold one view or
the other, for they declare that before every death on the river the sisters moan, the sound
being heard above the lapping of the waves. It is different from any other sound in nature.
Besides, it is an unquestioned fact that more accidents happen here than at any other point
on the river.

Many are the upsets that have occurred and many are the swimmers who have gone down, the dark
forms of the sisters being the last shapes that their water-blurred eyes have seen. It is only
before a human life is to be yielded that this low wailing comes from the rocks, and when,
on a night in May, 1889, the sound floated shoreward, just as the clock in Georgetown struck
twelve, good people who were awake sighed and uttered a prayer for the one whose doom was so
near at hand. Twelve hours later, at noon, a shell came speeding down the Potomac, with a young
athlete jauntily pulling at the oars. As he neared the Three Sisters his boat appeared to be
caught in an eddy; it swerved suddenly, as if struck; then it upset and the rower sank to his
death.

A RIDE FOR A BRIDE

