MR. SCARBOROUGH'S FAMILY

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE

1883

PART I.

CHAPTER I.

MR. SCARBOROUGH.

It will be necessary, for the purpose of my story, that I shall go back more than once from
the point at which it begins, so that I may explain with the least amount of awkwardness the
things as they occurred, which led up to the incidents that I am about to tell; and I may as
well say that these first four chapters of the book--though they may be thought to be the most
interesting of them all by those who look to incidents for their interest in a tale--are in
this way only preliminary.

The world has not yet forgotten the intensity of the feeling which existed when old Mr. Scarborough
declared that his well-known eldest son was not legitimate. Mr. Scarborough himself had not
been well known in early life. He had been the only son of a squire in Staffordshire over whose
grounds a town had been built and pottery-works established. In this way a property which had
not originally been extensive had been greatly increased in value, and Mr. Scarborough, when
he came into possession, had found himself to be a rich man. He had then gone abroad, and had
there married an English lady. After the lapse of some years he had returned to Tretton Park,
as his place was named, and there had lost his wife. He had come back with two sons, Mountjoy
and Augustus, and there, at Tretton, he had lived, spending, however, a considerable portion
of each year in chambers in the Albany. He was a man who, through many years, had had his own
circle of friends, but, as I have said before, he was not much known in the world. He was luxurious
and self-indulgent, and altogether indifferent to the opinion of those around him. But he was
affectionate to his children, and anxious above all things for their welfare, or rather happiness.
Some marvellous stories were told as to his income, which arose chiefly from the Tretton delf-works
and from the town of Tretton, which had been built chiefly on his very park, in consequence
of the nature of the clay and the quality of the water. As a fact, the original four thousand
a year, to which his father had been born, had grown to twenty thousand by nature of the operations
which had taken place. But the whole of this, whether four thousand or twenty thousand, was
strictly entailed, and Mr. Scarborough had been very anxious, since his second son was born,
to create for him also something which might amount to opulence. But they who knew him best
knew that of all things he hated most the entail.

The boys were both educated at Eton, and the elder went into the Guards, having been allowed
an intermediate year in order to learn languages on the Continent. He had then become a cornet
in the Coldstreams, and had, from that time, lived a life of reckless expenditure. His brother
Augustus had in the mean time gone to Cambridge and become a barrister. He had been called
but two years when the story was made known of his father's singular assertion. As from that
time it became unnecessary for him to practise his profession, no more was heard of him as
a lawyer. But they who had known the young man in the chambers of that great luminary, Mr.
Rugby, declared that a very eminent advocate was now spoiled by a freak of fortune.

Of his brother Mountjoy,--or Captain Scarborough, as he came to be known at an early period
of his life,--the stories which were told in the world at large were much too remarkable to
be altogether true. But it was only too true that he lived as though the wealth at his command
were without limit. For some few years his father bore with him patiently, doubling his allowance,
and paying his bills for him again and again. He made up his mind,--with many regrets,--that
enough had been done for his younger son, who would surely by his intellect be able to do much
for himself. But then it became necessary to encroach on the funds already put by, and at last
there came the final blow, when he discovered that Captain Scarborough had raised large sums
on post-obits from the Jews. The Jews simply requested the father to pay the money or some
portion of it, which if at once paid would satisfy them, explaining to him that otherwise the
whole property would at his death fall into their hands. It need not here be explained how,
through one sad year, these negotiations were prolonged; but at last there came a time in which
Mr. Scarborough, sitting in his chambers in the Albany, boldly declared his purpose. He sent
for his own lawyer, Mr. Grey, and greatly astonished that gentleman by declaring to him that
Captain Scarborough was illegitimate.

At first Mr. Grey refused altogether to believe the assertion made to him. He had been very
conversant with the affairs of the family, and had even dealt with marriage settlements on
behalf of the lady in question. He knew Mr. Scarborough well,--or rather had not known him,
but had heard much of him,--and therefore suspected him. Mr. Grey was a thoroughly respectable
man, and Mr. Scarborough, though upright and honorable in many dealings, had not been thoroughly
respectable. He had lived with his wife off and on, as people say. Though he had saved much
of his money for the purpose above described, he had also spent much of it in a manner which
did not approve itself to Mr. Grey. Mr. Grey had thoroughly disliked the eldest son, and had,
in fact, been afraid of him. The captain, in the few interviews that had been necessary between
them, had attempted to domineer over the lawyer, till there had at last sprung up a quarrel,
in which, to tell the truth, the father took the part of the son. Mr. Grey had for a while
been so offended as to find it necessary to desire Mr. Scarborough to employ another lawyer. But the
pouch of a gallinacean! Good, like most'anxious boys'as it was unfortunately house at his leave
to my home, and being over impossible etiquette with Dining and breeding in the circle, so
i, that this'good act'assist extremely to conform myself to the rules accept to aware Son.
Sagacity of her parents'day ungenteel, i was strictly wished upon the ventriculus of the chicken,
said to one of a wings. Alas! it was not good! how unfortunate! I abhorred him!


"But the evidence is all here," said Mr. Scarborough, laying his hand on a small bundle of
papers. "The difficulty would have been, and the danger, in causing Mountjoy to have been accepted
in his brother's place. There can be no doubt that I was not married till after Mountjoy was born."

Mr. Grey's curiosity was roused, and he began to ask questions. Why, in the first place, had
Mr. Scarborough behaved so dishonestly? Why had he originally not married his wife? And then,
why had he married her? If, as he said, the proofs were so easy, how had he dared to act so
directly in opposition to the laws of his country? Why, indeed, had he been through the whole
of his life so bad a man,--so bad to the woman who had borne his name, so bad to the son whom
he called illegitimate, and so bad also to the other son whom he now intended to restore to
his position, solely with the view of defrauding the captain's creditors?

In answer to this Mr. Scarborough, though he was suffering much at the time,--so much as to
be considered near to his death,--had replied with the most perfect good-humor.

He had done very well, he thought, by his wife, whom he had married after she had consented
to live with him on other terms. He had done very well by his elder son, for whom he had intended
the entire property. He had done well by his second son, for whom he had saved his money. It
was now his first duty to save the property. He regarded himself as being altogether unselfish
and virtuous from his point of view.

When Mr. Grey had spoken about the laws of his country he had simply smiled, though he was
expecting a grievous operation on the following day. As for marriage, he had no great respect
for it, except as a mode of enabling men and women to live together comfortably. As for the
"outraged laws of his country," of which Mr. Grey spoke much, he did not care a straw for such
outrages--nor, indeed, for the expressed opinion of mankind as to his conduct. He was very
soon about to leave the world, and meant to do the best he could for his son Augustus. The
other son was past all hope. He was hardly angry with his eldest son, who had undoubtedly given
him cause for just anger. His apparent motives in telling the truth about him at last were
rather those of defrauding the Jews, who had expressed themselves to him with brutal audacity,
than that of punishing the one son or doing justice to the other; but even of them he spoke
with a cynical good-humor, triumphing in his idea of thoroughly getting the better of them.

"I am consoled, Mr. Grey," he said, "when I think how probably it might all have been discovered
after my death. I should have destroyed all these," and he laid his hands upon the papers,
"but still there might have been discovery."

Mr. Grey could not but think that during the last twenty-four years,--the period which had
elapsed since the birth of the younger son,--no idea of such a truth had occurred to himself.

He did at last consent to take the papers in his hands, and to read them through with care.
He took them away with that promise, and with an assurance that he would bring them back on
the day but one following--should Mr. Scarborough then be alive.

Mr. Scarborough, who seemed at that moment to have much life in him, insisted on this proviso:--

"The surgeon is to be here to-morrow, you know, and his coming may mean a great deal. You will
have the papers, which are quite clear, and will know what to do. I shall see Mountjoy myself
this evening. I suppose he will have the grace to come, as he does not know what he is coming for."

Then the father smiled again, and the lawyer went.

Mr. Scarborough, though he was very strong of heart, did have some misgivings as the time came
at which he was to see his son. The communication which he had to make was certainly one of
vital importance. His son had some time since instigated him to come to terms with the "family
creditors," as the captain boldly called them.

"Seeing that I never owed a shilling in my life, or my father before me, it is odd that I should
have family creditors," the father had answered.

"The property has, then, at any rate," the son had said, with a scowl.

