"Yes, yes, by all means," said the acquiescing Finney; "though, perhaps, as Mr Harding is no
man of business, it may lead--lead to some little difficulties; but perhaps you're right. 
Mr Bold, I don't think seeing Mr Harding can do any harm."  Finney saw from the expression
of his client's face that he intended to have his own way.

Chapter III

THE BISHOP OF BARCHESTER

Bold at once repaired to the hospital.  The day was now far advanced, but he knew that Mr Harding
dined in the summer at four, that Eleanor was accustomed to drive in the evening, and that
he might therefore probably find Mr Harding alone.  It was between seven and eight when he
reached the slight iron gate leading into the precentor's garden, and though, as Mr Chadwick
observed, the day had been cold for June, the evening was mild, and soft, and sweet.  The little
gate was open. As he raised the latch he heard the notes of Mr Harding's violoncello from the
far end of the garden, and, advancing before the house and across the lawn, he found him playing;--and
not without an audience. The musician was seated in a garden-chair just within the summer-house,
so as to allow the violoncello which he held between his knees to rest upon the dry stone flooring;
before him stood a rough music desk, on which was open a page of that dear sacred book, that
much-laboured and much-loved volume of church music, which had cost so many guineas; and around
sat, and lay, and stood, and leaned, ten of the twelve old men who dwelt with him beneath old
John Hiram's roof. The two reformers were not there.  I will not say that in their hearts they
were conscious of any wrong done or to be done to their mild warden, but latterly they had
kept aloof from him, and his music was no longer to their taste.

It was amusing to see the positions, and eager listening faces of these well-to-do old men.
I will not say that they all appreciated the music which they heard, but they were intent on
appearing to do so; pleased at being where they were, they were determined, as far as in them
lay, to give pleasure in return; and they were not unsuccessful.  It gladdened the precentor's
heart to think that the old bedesmen whom he loved so well admired the strains which were to
him so full of almost ecstatic joy; and he used to boast that such was the air of the hospital,
as to make it a precinct specially fit for the worship of St Cecilia.

Immediately before him, on the extreme corner of the bench which ran round the summer-house,
sat one old man, with his handkerchief smoothly lain upon his knees, who did enjoy the moment,
or acted enjoyment well.  He was one on whose large frame many years, for he was over eighty,
had made small havoc;--he was still an upright, burly, handsome figure, with an open, ponderous
brow, round which clung a few, though very few, thin gray locks.  The coarse black gown of
the hospital, the breeches, and buckled shoes became him well; and as he sat with his hands
folded on his staff, and his chin resting on his hands, he was such a listener as most musicians
would be glad to welcome.

This man was certainly the pride of the hospital.  It had always been the custom that one should
be selected as being to some extent in authority over the others; and though Mr Bunce, for
such was his name, and so he was always designated by his inferior brethren, had no greater
emoluments than they, he had assumed, and well knew how to maintain, the dignity of his elevation.
The precentor delighted to call him his sub-warden, and was not ashamed, occasionally, when
no other guest was there, to bid him sit down by the same parlour fire, and drink the full
glass of port which was placed near him.  Bunce never went without the second glass, but no
entreaty ever made him take a third.

"Well, well, Mr Harding; you're too good, much too good," he'd always say, as the second glass
was filled; but when that was drunk, and the half hour over, Bunce stood erect, and with a
benediction which his patron valued, retired to his own abode.  He knew the world too well
to risk the comfort of such halcyon moments, by prolonging them till they were disagreeable.

Mr Bunce, as may be imagined, was most strongly opposed to innovation. Not even Dr Grantly
had a more holy horror of those who would interfere in the affairs of the hospital; he was
every inch a churchman, and though he was not very fond of Dr Grantly personally, that arose
from there not being room in the hospital for two people so much alike as the doctor and himself,
rather than from any dissimilarity in feeling.  Mr Bunce was inclined to think that the warden
and himself could manage the hospital without further assistance; and that, though the bishop
was the constitutional visitor, and as such entitled to special reverence from all connected
with John Hiram's will, John Hiram never intended that his affairs should be interfered with
by an archdeacon.

At the present moment, however, these cares were off his mind, and he was looking at his warden,
as though he thought the music heavenly, and the musician hardly less so.

As Bold walked silently over the lawn, Mr Harding did not at first perceive him, and continued
to draw his bow slowly across the plaintive wires; but he soon found from his audience that
some stranger was there, and looking up, began to welcome his young friend with frank hospitality.

"Pray, Mr Harding--pray don't let me disturb you," said Bold; "you know how fond I am of sacred
music."

"Oh! it's nothing," said the precentor, shutting up the book and then opening it again as he
saw the delightfully imploring look of his old friend Bunce.  Oh, Bunce, Bunce, Bunce, I fear
that after all thou art but a flatterer.  "Well, I'll just finish it then; it's a favourite
little bit of Bishop's; and then, Mr Bold, we'll have a stroll and a chat till Eleanor comes
in and gives us tea."  And so Bold sat down on the soft turf to listen, or rather to think
how, after such sweet harmony, he might best introduce a theme of so much discord, to disturb
the peace of him who was so ready to welcome him kindly.

Bold thought that the performance was soon over, for he felt that he had a somewhat difficult
task, and he almost regretted the final leave-taking of the last of the old men, slow as they
were in going through their adieux.

Bold's heart was in his mouth, as the precentor made some ordinary but kind remark as to the
friendliness of the visit.

"One evening call," said he, "is worth ten in the morning.  It's all formality in the morning;
real social talk never begins till after dinner.  That's why I dine early, so as to get as
much as I can of it."

"Quite true, Mr Harding," said the other; "but I fear I've reversed the order of things, and
I owe you much apology for troubling you on business at such an hour; but it is on business
that I have called just now."

Mr Harding looked blank and annoyed; there was something in the tone of the young man's voice
which told him that the interview was intended to be disagreeable, and he shrank back at finding
his kindly greeting so repulsed.

"I wish to speak to you about the hospital," continued Bold.

"Well, well, anything I can tell you I shall be most happy--"

"It's about the accounts."

"Then, my dear fellow, I can tell you nothing, for I'm as ignorant as a child.  All I know
is, that they pay me £800 a year.  Go to Chadwick, he knows all about the accounts; and now
tell me, will poor Mary Jones ever get the use of her limb again?"

"Well, I think she will, if she's careful; but, Mr Harding, I hope you won't object to discuss
with me what I have to say about the hospital."

Mr Harding gave a deep, long-drawn sigh.  He did object, very strongly object, to discuss any
such subject with John Bold; but he had not the business tact of Mr Chadwick, and did not know
how to relieve himself from the coming evil; he sighed sadly, but made no answer.

"I have the greatest regard for you, Mr Harding," continued Bold; "the truest respect, the
most sincere--"

"Thank ye, thank ye, Mr Bold," interjaculated the precentor somewhat impatiently; "I'm much
obliged, but never mind that; I'm as likely to be in the wrong as another man,--quite as likely."

"But, Mr Harding, I must express what I feel, lest you should think there is personal enmity
in what I'm going to do."

"Personal enmity!  Going to do!  Why, you're not going to cut my throat, nor put me into the
Ecclesiastical Court!"

Bold tried to laugh, but he couldn't.  He was quite in earnest, and determined in his course,
and couldn't make a joke of it.  He walked on awhile in silence before he recommenced his attack,
during which Mr Harding, who had still the bow in his hand, played rapidly on an imaginary
violoncello.  "I fear there is reason to think that John Hiram's will is not carried out to
the letter, Mr Harding," said the young man at last; "and I have been asked to see into it."

"Very well, I've no objection on earth; and now we need not say another word about it."

"Only one word more, Mr Harding.  Chadwick has referred me to Cox and Cummins, and I think
it my duty to apply to them for some statement about the hospital.  In what I do I may appear
to be interfering with you, and I hope you will forgive me for doing so."

"Mr Bold," said the other, stopping, and speaking with some solemnity, "if you act justly,
say nothing in this matter but the truth, and use no unfair weapons in carrying out your purposes,
I shall have nothing to forgive.  I presume you think I am not entitled to the income I receive
from the hospital, and that others are entitled to it. Whatever some may do, I shall never
attribute to you base motives because you hold an opinion opposed to my own and adverse to
my interests: pray do what you consider to be your duty; I can give you no assistance, neither
will I offer you any obstacle.  Let me, however, suggest to you, that you can in no wise forward
your views nor I mine, by any discussion between us.  Here comes Eleanor and the ponies, and
we'll go in to tea."

Bold, however, felt that he could not sit down at ease with Mr Harding and his daughter after
what had passed, and therefore excused himself with much awkward apology; and merely raising
his hat and bowing as he passed Eleanor and the pony chair, left her in disappointed amazement
at his departure.

Mr Harding's demeanour certainly impressed Bold with a full conviction that the warden felt
that he stood on strong grounds, and almost made him think that he was about to interfere without
due warrant in the private affairs of a just and honourable man; but Mr Harding himself was
anything but satisfied with his own view of the case.

In the first place, he wished for Eleanor's sake to think well of Bold and to like him, and
yet he could not but feel disgusted at the arrogance of his conduct.  What right had he to
say that John Hiram's will was not fairly carried out?  But then the question would arise within
his heart,--Was that will fairly acted on?  Did John Hiram mean that the warden of his hospital
should receive considerably more out of the legacy than all the twelve old men together for
whose behoof the hospital was built?  Could it be possible that John Bold was right, and that
the reverend warden of the hospital had been for the last ten years and more the unjust recipient
of an income legally and equitably belonging to others?  What if it should be proved before
the light of day that he, whose life had been so happy, so quiet, so respected, had absorbed
eight thousand pounds to which he had no title, and which he could never repay?  I do not say
that he feared that such was really the case; but the first shade of doubt now fell across
his mind, and from this evening, for many a long, long day, our good, kind loving warden was
neither happy nor at ease.

Thoughts of this kind, these first moments of much misery, oppressed Mr Harding as he sat sipping
his tea, absent and ill at ease.  Poor Eleanor felt that all was not right, but her ideas as
to the cause of the evening's discomfort did not go beyond her lover, and his sudden and uncivil
departure.  She thought there must have been some quarrel between Bold and her father, and
she was half angry with both, though she did not attempt to explain to herself why she was so.

Mr Harding thought long and deeply over these things, both before he went to bed and after
it, as he lay awake, questioning within himself the validity of his claim to the income which
he enjoyed.  It seemed clear at any rate that, however unfortunate he might be at having been
placed in such a position, no one could say that he ought either to have refused the appointment
first, or to have rejected the income afterwards.  All the world,--meaning the ecclesiastical
world as confined to the English church,--knew that the wardenship of the Barchester Hospital
was a snug sinecure, but no one had ever been blamed for accepting it.  To how much blame,
however, would he have been open had he rejected it!  How mad would he have been thought had
he declared, when the situation was vacant and offered to him, that he had scruples as to receiving
£800 a year from John Hiram's property, and that he had rather some stranger should possess
it!  How would Dr Grantly have shaken his wise head, and have consulted with his friends in
the close as to some decent retreat for the coming insanity of the poor minor canon!  If he
was right in accepting the place, it was clear to him also that he would be wrong in rejecting
any part of the income attached to it.  The patronage was a valuable appanage of the bishopric;
and surely it would not be his duty to lessen the value of that preferment which had been bestowed
on himself; surely he was bound to stand by his order.

But somehow these arguments, though they seemed logical, were not satisfactory.  Was John Hiram's
will fairly carried out? that was the true question: and if not, was it not his especial duty
to see that this was done,--his especial duty, whatever injury it might do to his order,--however
ill such duty might be received by his patron and his friends?  At the idea of his friends,
his mind turned unhappily to his son-in-law.  He knew well how strongly he would be supported
by Dr Grantly, if he could bring himself to put his case into the archdeacon's hands and to
allow him to fight the battle; but he knew also that he would find no sympathy there for his
doubts, no friendly feeling, no inward comfort.  Dr Grantly would be ready enough to take up
his cudgel against all comers on behalf of the church militant, but he would do so on the distasteful
ground of the church's infallibility.  Such a contest would give no comfort to Mr Harding's
doubts.  He was not so anxious to prove himself right, as to be so.

I have said before that Dr Grantly was the working man of the diocese, and that his father
the bishop was somewhat inclined to an idle life. So it was; but the bishop, though he had
never been an active man, was one whose qualities had rendered him dear to all who knew him.
He was the very opposite to his son; he was a bland and a kind old man, opposed by every feeling
to authoritative demonstrations and episcopal ostentation.  It was perhaps well for him, in
his situation, that his son had early in life been able to do that which he could not well
do when he was younger, and which he could not have done at all now that he was over seventy.
The bishop knew how to entertain the clergy of his diocese, to talk easy small-talk with the
rectors' wives, and put curates at their ease; but it required the strong hand of the archdeacon
to deal with such as were refractory either in their doctrines or their lives.

The bishop and Mr Harding loved each other warmly.  They had grown old together, and had together
spent many, many years in clerical pursuits and clerical conversation.  When one of them was
a bishop and the other only a minor canon they were even then much together; but since their
children had married, and Mr Harding had become warden and precentor, they were all in all
to each other.  I will not say that they managed the diocese between them, but they spent much
time in discussing the man who did, and in forming little plans to mitigate his wrath against
church delinquents, and soften his aspirations for church dominion.

Mr Harding determined to open his mind and confess his doubts to his old friend; and to him
he went on the morning after John Bold's uncourteous visit.

Up to this period no rumour of these cruel proceedings against the hospital had reached the
bishop's ears.  He had doubtless heard that men existed who questioned his right to present
to a sinecure of £800 a year, as he had heard from time to time of some special immorality
or disgraceful disturbance in the usually decent and quiet city of Barchester: but all he did,
and all he was called on to do, on such occasions, was to shake his head, and to beg his son,
the great dictator, to see that no harm happened to the church.

It was a long story that Mr Harding had to tell before he made the bishop comprehend his own
view of the case; but we need not follow him through the tale.  At first the bishop counselled
but one step, recommended but one remedy, had but one medicine in his whole pharmacopoeia strong
enough to touch so grave a disorder;--he prescribed the archdeacon.  "Refer him to the archdeacon,"
he repeated, as Mr Harding spoke of Bold and his visit.  "The archdeacon will set you quite
right about that," he kindly said, when his friend spoke with hesitation of the justness of
his cause.  "No man has got up all that so well as the archdeacon;" but the dose, though large,
failed to quiet the patient; indeed it almost produced nausea.

"But, bishop," said he, "did you ever read John Hiram's will?"

The bishop thought probably he had, thirty-five years ago, when first instituted to his see,
but could not state positively: however, he very well knew that he had the absolute right to
present to the wardenship, and that the income of the warden had been regularly settled.

"But, bishop, the question is, who has the power to settle it? If, as this young man says,
the will provides that the proceeds of the property are to be divided into shares, who has
the power to alter these provisions?"  The bishop had an indistinct idea that they altered
themselves by the lapse of years; that a kind of ecclesiastical statute of limitation barred
the rights of the twelve bedesmen to any increase of income arising from the increased value
of property.  He said something about tradition; more of the many learned men who by their
practice had confirmed the present arrangement; then went at some length into the propriety
of maintaining the due difference in rank and income between a beneficed clergyman and certain
poor old men who were dependent on charity; and concluded his argument by another reference
to the archdeacon.

The precentor sat thoughtfully gazing at the fire, and listening to the good-natured reasoning
of his friend.  What the bishop said had a sort of comfort in it, but it was not a sustaining
comfort.  It made Mr Harding feel that many others,--indeed, all others of his own order,--would
think him right; but it failed to prove to him that he truly was so.

"Bishop," said he, at last, after both had sat silent for a while, "I should deceive you and
myself too, if I did not tell you that I am very unhappy about this.  Suppose that I cannot
bring myself to agree with Dr Grantly!--that I find, after inquiry, that the young man is right,
and that I am wrong,--what then?"

The two old men were sitting near each other,--so near that the bishop was able to lay his
hand upon the other's knee, and he did so with a gentle pressure.  Mr Harding well knew what
that pressure meant.  The bishop had no further argument to adduce; he could not fight for
the cause as his son would do; he could not prove all the precentor's doubts to be groundless;
but he could sympathise with his friend, and he did so; and Mr Harding felt that he had received
that for which he came.  There was another period of silence, after which the bishop asked,
with a degree of irritable energy, very unusual with him, whether this "pestilent intruder"
(meaning John Bold) had any friends in Barchester.

Mr Harding had fully made up his mind to tell the bishop everything; to speak of his daughter's
love, as well as his own troubles; to talk of John Bold in his double capacity of future son-in-law
and present enemy; and though he felt it to be sufficiently disagreeable, now was his time
to do it.

"He is very intimate at my own house, bishop."  The bishop stared.  He was not so far gone
in orthodoxy and church militancy as his son, but still he could not bring himself to understand
how so declared an enemy of the establishment could be admitted on terms of intimacy into the
house, not only of so firm a pillar as Mr Harding, but one so much injured as the warden of
the hospital.

"Indeed, I like Mr Bold much, personally," continued the disinterested victim; "and to tell
you the 'truth,'"--he hesitated as he brought out the dreadful tidings,--"I have sometimes
thought it not improbable that he would be my second son-in-law."  The bishop did not whistle:
we believe that they lose the power of doing so on being consecrated; and that in these days
one might as easily meet a corrupt judge as a whistling bishop; but he looked as though he
would have done so, but for his apron.

What a brother-in-law for the archdeacon! what an alliance for Barchester close! what a connection
for even the episcopal palace! The bishop, in his simple mind, felt no doubt that John Bold,
had he so much power, would shut up all cathedrals, and probably all parish churches; distribute
all tithes among Methodists, Baptists, and other savage tribes; utterly annihilate the sacred
bench, and make shovel hats and lawn sleeves as illegal as cowls, sandals, and sackcloth! Here
was a nice man to be initiated into the comfortable arcana of ecclesiastical snuggeries; one
who doubted the integrity of parsons, and probably disbelieved the Trinity!

Mr Harding saw what an effect his communication had made, and almost repented the openness
of his disclosure; he, however, did what he could to moderate the grief of his friend and patron.
"I do not say that there is any engagement between them.  Had there been, Eleanor would have
told me; I know her well enough to be assured that she would have done so; but I see that they
are fond of each other; and as a man and a father, I have had no objection to urge against
their intimacy."

"But, Mr Harding," said the bishop, "how are you to oppose him, if he is your son-in-law?"

"I don't mean to oppose him; it is he who opposes me; if anything is to be done in defence,
I suppose Chadwick will do it.  I suppose--"

"Oh, the archdeacon will see to that: were the young man twice his brother-in-law, the archdeacon
will never be deterred from doing what he feels to be right."

Mr Harding reminded the bishop that the archdeacon and the reformer were not yet brothers,
and very probably never would be; exacted from him a promise that Eleanor's name should not
be mentioned in any discussion between the father bishop and son archdeacon respecting the
hospital; and then took his departure, leaving his poor old friend bewildered, amazed, and
confounded.

Chapter IV

HIRAM'S BEDESMEN

The parties most interested in the movement which is about to set Barchester by the ears were
not the foremost to discuss the merit of the question, as is often the case; but when the bishop,
the archdeacon, the warden, the steward, and Messrs Cox and Cummins, were all busy with the
matter, each in his own way, it is not to be supposed that Hiram's bedesmen themselves were
altogether passive spectators.  Finney, the attorney, had been among them, asking sly questions,
and raising immoderate hopes, creating a party hostile to the warden, and establishing a corps
in the enemy's camp, as he figuratively calls it to himself.  Poor old men: whoever may be
righted or wronged by this inquiry, they at any rate will assuredly be only injured: to them
it can only be an unmixed evil.  How can their lot be improved? all their wants are supplied;
every comfort is administered; they have warm houses, good clothes, plentiful diet, and rest
after a life of labour; and above all, that treasure so inestimable in declining years, a true
and kind friend to listen to their sorrows, watch over their sickness, and administer comfort
as regards this world, and the world to come!

John Bold sometimes thinks of this, when he is talking loudly of the rights of the bedesmen,
whom he has taken under his protection; but he quiets the suggestion within his breast with
the high-sounding name of justice: "Fiat justitia, ruat coelum."  These old men should, by
rights, have one hundred pounds a year instead of one shilling and sixpence a day, and the
warden should have two hundred or three hundred pounds instead of eight hundred pounds.  What
is unjust must be wrong; what is wrong should be righted; and if he declined the task, who
else would do it?

"Each one of you is clearly entitled to one hundred pounds a year by common law": such had
been the important whisper made by Finney into the ears of Abel Handy, and by him retailed
to his eleven brethren.

Too much must not be expected from the flesh and blood even of John Hiram's bedesmen, and the
positive promise of one hundred a year to each of the twelve old men had its way with most
of them.  The great Bunce was not to be wiled away, and was upheld in his orthodoxy by two
adherents.  Abel Handy, who was the leader of the aspirants after wealth, had, alas, a stronger
following.  No less than five of the twelve soon believed that his views were just, making
with their leader a moiety of the hospital.  The other three, volatile unstable minds, vacillated
between the two chieftains, now led away by the hope of gold, now anxious to propitiate the
powers that still existed.

It had been proposed to address a petition to the bishop as visitor, praying his lordship to
see justice done to the legal recipients of John Hiram's Charity, and to send copies of this
petition and of the reply it would elicit to all the leading London papers, and thereby to
obtain notoriety for the subject.  This it was thought would pave the way for ulterior legal
proceedings.  It would have been a great thing to have had the signatures and marks of all
the twelve injured legatees; but this was impossible: Bunce would have cut his hand off sooner
than have signed it.  It was then suggested by Finney that if even eleven could be induced
to sanction the document, the one obstinate recusant might have been represented as unfit to
judge on such a question,--in fact, as being non compos mentis,--and the petition would have
been taken as representing the feeling of the men. But this could not be done: Bunce's friends
were as firm as himself, and as yet only six crosses adorned the document.  It was the more
provoking, as Bunce himself could write his name legibly, and one of those three doubting souls
had for years boasted of like power, and possessed, indeed, a Bible, in which he was proud
to show his name written by himself some thirty years ago--"Job Skulpit;" but it was thought
that Job Skulpit, having forgotten his scholarship, on that account recoiled from the petition,
and that the other doubters would follow as he led them.  A petition signed by half the hospital
would have but a poor effect.

It was in Skulpit's room that the petition was now lying, waiting such additional signatures
as Abel Handy, by his eloquence, could obtain for it.  The six marks it bore were duly attested,
thus:

         his            his             his
     Abel X Handy, Gregy X Moody, Mathew X Spriggs,
         mark           mark            mark

&c., and places were duly designated in pencil for those brethren who were now expected to
join: for Skulpit alone was left a spot on which his genuine signature might be written in
fair clerk-like style. Handy had brought in the document, and spread it out on the small deal
table, and was now standing by it persuasive and eager.  Moody had followed with an inkhorn,
carefully left behind by Finney; and Spriggs bore aloft, as though it were a sword, a well-worn
ink-black pen, which from time to time he endeavoured to thrust into Skulpit's unwilling hand.

With the learned man were his two abettors in indecision, William Gazy and Jonathan Crumple.
If ever the petition were to be forwarded, now was the time,--so said Mr Finney; and great
was the anxiety on the part of those whose one hundred pounds a year, as they believed, mainly
depended on the document in question.

"To be kept out of all that money," as the avaricious Moody had muttered to his friend Handy,
"by an old fool saying that he can write his own name like his betters!"

"Well, Job," said Handy, trying to impart to his own sour, ill-omened visage a smile of approbation,
in which he greatly failed; "so you're ready now, Mr Finney says; here's the place, d'ye see;"--and
he put his huge brown finger down on the dirty paper;--"name or mark, it's all one.  Come along,
old boy; if so be we're to have the spending of this money, why the sooner the better,--that's
my maxim."

"To be sure," said Moody.  "We a'n't none of us so young; we can't stay waiting for old Catgut
no longer."

It was thus these miscreants named our excellent friend.  The nickname he could easily have
forgiven, but the allusion to the divine source of all his melodious joy would have irritated
even him.  Let us hope he never knew the insult.

"Only think, old Billy Gazy," said Spriggs, who rejoiced in greater youth than his brethren,
but having fallen into a fire when drunk, had had one eye burnt out, one cheek burnt through,
and one arm nearly burnt off, and who, therefore, in regard to personal appearance, was not
the most prepossessing of men, "a hundred a year, and all to spend; only think, old Billy Gazy;"
and he gave a hideous grin that showed off his misfortunes to their full extent.

Old Billy Gazy was not alive to much enthusiasm.  Even these golden prospects did not arouse
him to do more than rub his poor old bleared eyes with the cuff of his bedesman's gown, and
gently mutter: "he didn't know, not he; he didn't know."

"But you'd know, Jonathan," continued Spriggs, turning to the other friend of Skulpit's, who
was sitting on a stool by the table, gazing vacantly at the petition.  Jonathan Crumple was
a meek, mild man, who had known better days; his means had been wasted by bad children, who
had made his life wretched till he had been received into the hospital, of which he had not
long been a member.  Since that day he had known neither sorrow nor trouble, and this attempt
to fill him with new hopes was, indeed, a cruelty.

"A hundred a year's a nice thing, for sartain, neighbour Spriggs," said he.  "I once had nigh
to that myself, but it didn't do me no good."  And he gave a low sigh, as he thought of the
children of his own loins who had robbed him.

"And shall have again, Joe," said Handy; "and will have someone to keep it right and tight
for you this time."

Crumple sighed again;--he had learned the impotency of worldly wealth, and would have been
satisfied, if left untempted, to have remained happy with one and sixpence a day.

"Come, Skulpit," repeated Handy, getting impatient, "you're not going to go along with old
Bunce in helping that parson to rob us all. Take the pen, man, and right yourself.  Well,"
he added, seeing that Skulpit still doubted, "to see a man as is afraid to stand by hisself
is, to my thinking, the meanest thing as is."

"Sink them all for parsons, says I," growled Moody; "hungry beggars, as never thinks their
bellies full till they have robbed all and everything!"

"Who's to harm you, man?" argued Spriggs.  "Let them look never so black at you, they can't
get you put out when you're once in;--no, not old Catgut, with Calves to help him!"  I am sorry
to say the archdeacon himself was designated by this scurrilous allusion to his nether person.

"A hundred a year to win, and nothing to lose," continued Handy.  "My eyes!  Well, how a man's
to doubt about sich a bit of cheese as that passes me;--but some men is timorous;--some men
is born with no pluck in them;--some men is cowed at the very first sight of a gentleman's
coat and waistcoat."

Oh, Mr Harding, if you had but taken the archdeacon's advice in that disputed case, when Joe
Mutters was this ungrateful demagogue's rival candidate!

"Afraid of a parson," growled Moody, with a look of ineffable scorn. "I tell ye what I'd be
afraid of--I'd be afraid of not getting nothing from 'em but just what I could take by might
and right;--that's the most I'd be afraid on of any parson of 'em all."

"But," said Skulpit, apologetically, "Mr Harding's not so bad;--he did give us twopence a day,
didn't he now?"

"Twopence a day!" exclaimed Spriggs with scorn, opening awfully the red cavern of his lost eye.

"Twopence a day!" muttered Moody with a curse; "sink his twopence!"

"Twopence a day!" exclaimed Handy; "and I'm to go, hat in hand, and thank a chap for twopence
a day, when he owes me a hundred pounds a year; no, thank ye; that may do for you, but it won't
for me.  Come, I say, Skulpit, are you a going to put your mark to this here paper, or are
you not?"

Skulpit looked round in wretched indecision to his two friends.  "What d'ye think, Bill Gazy?"
said he.

But Bill Gazy couldn't think.  He made a noise like the bleating of an old sheep, which was
intended to express the agony of his doubt, and again muttered that "he didn't know."

"Take hold, you old cripple," said Handy, thrusting the pen into poor Billy's hand: "there,
so--ugh! you old fool, you've been and smeared it all,--there,--that'll do for you;--that's
as good as the best name as ever was written": and a big blotch of ink was presumed to represent
Billy Gazy's acquiescence.

"Now, Jonathan," said Handy, turning to Crumple.

"A hundred a year's a nice thing, for sartain," again argued Crumple. "Well, neighbour Skulpit,
how's it to be?"

"Oh, please yourself," said Skulpit: "please yourself, and you'll please me."

The pen was thrust into Crumple's hand, and a faint, wandering, meaningless sign was made,
betokening such sanction and authority as Jonathan Crumple was able to convey.

"Come, Job," said Handy, softened by success, "don't let 'em have to say that old Bunce has
a man like you under his thumb,--a man that always holds his head in the hospital as high as
Bunce himself, though you're never axed to drink wine, and sneak, and tell lies about your
betters as he does."

Skulpit held the pen, and made little flourishes with it in the air, but still hesitated.

"And if you'll be said by me," continued Handy, "you'll not write your name to it at all, but
just put your mark like the others;"--the cloud began to clear from Skulpit's brow;--"we all
know you can do it if you like, but maybe you wouldn't like to seem uppish, you know."

"Well, the mark would be best," said Skulpit.  "One name and the rest marks wouldn't look well,
would it?"

"The worst in the world," said Handy; "there--there": and stooping over the petition, the learned
clerk made a huge cross on the place left for his signature.

"That's the game," said Handy, triumphantly pocketing the petition; "we're all in a boat now,
that is, the nine of us; and as for old Bunce, and his cronies, they may--"  But as he was
hobbling off to the door, with a crutch on one side and a stick on the other, he was met by
Bunce himself.

"Well Handy, and what may old Bunce do?" said the gray-haired, upright senior.

Handy muttered something, and was departing; but he was stopped in the doorway by the huge
frame of the newcomer.

"You've been doing no good here, Abel Handy," said he, "'tis plain to see that; and 'tisn't
much good, I'm thinking, you ever do."

"I mind my own business, Master Bunce," muttered the other, "and do you do the same.  It ain't
nothing to you what I does;--and your spying and poking here won't do no good nor yet no harm."

"I suppose then, Job," continued Bunce, not noticing his opponent, "if the truth must out,
you've stuck your name to that petition of theirs at last."

Skulpit looked as though he were about to sink into the ground with shame.

"What is it to you what he signs?" said Handy.  "I suppose if we all wants to ax for our own,
we needn't ax leave of you first, Mr Bunce, big a man as you are; and as to your sneaking in
here, into Job's room when he's busy, and where you're not wanted--"

"I've knowed Job Skulpit, man and boy, sixty years," said Bunce, looking at the man of whom
he spoke, "and that's ever since the day he was born.  I knowed the mother that bore him, when
she and I were little wee things, picking daisies together in the close yonder; and I've lived
under the same roof with him more nor ten years; and after that I may come into his room without
axing leave, and yet no sneaking neither."

"So you can, Mr Bunce," said Skulpit; "so you can, any hour, day or night."

"And I'm free also to tell him my mind," continued Bunce, looking at the one man and addressing
the other; "and I tell him now that he's done a foolish and a wrong thing.  He's turned his
back upon one who is his best friend; and is playing the game of others, who care nothing for
him, whether he be poor or rich, well or ill, alive or dead.  A hundred a year?  Are the lot
of you soft enough to think that if a hundred a year be to be given, it's the likes of you
that will get it?"--and he pointed to Billy Gazy, Spriggs, and Crumple.  "Did any of us ever
do anything worth half the money?  Was it to make gentlemen of us we were brought in here,
when all the world turned against us, and we couldn't longer earn our daily bread?  A'n't you
all as rich in your ways as he in his?"--and the orator pointed to the side on which the warden
lived.  "A'n't you getting all you hoped for, ay, and more than you hoped for?  Wouldn't each
of you have given the dearest limb of his body to secure that which now makes you so unthankful?"

"We wants what John Hiram left us," said Handy.  "We wants what's ourn by law; it don't matter
what we expected.  What's ourn by law should be ourn, and by goles we'll have it."

"Law!" said Bunce, with all the scorn he knew how to command--"law! Did ye ever know a poor
man yet was the better for law, or for a lawyer?  Will Mr Finney ever be as good to you, Job,
as that man has been?  Will he see to you when you're sick, and comfort you when you're wretched?
Will he--"

"No, nor give you port wine, old boy, on cold winter nights! he won't do that, will he?" asked
Handy; and laughing at the severity of his own wit, he and his colleagues retired, carrying
with them, however, the now powerful petition.

There is no help for spilt milk; and Mr Bunce could only retire to his own room, disgusted
at the frailty of human nature.  Job Skulpit scratched his head;--Jonathan Crumple again remarked,
that, "for sartain, sure a hundred a year was very nice;"--and Billy Gazy again rubbed his
eyes, and lowly muttered that "he didn't know."

Chapter V

DR GRANTLY VISITS THE HOSPITAL

Though doubt and hesitation disturbed the rest of our poor warden, no such weakness perplexed
the nobler breast of his son-in-law.  As the indomitable cock preparing for the combat sharpens
his spurs, shakes his feathers, and erects his comb, so did the archdeacon arrange his weapons
for the coming war, without misgiving and without fear.  That he was fully confident of the
justice of his cause let no one doubt. Many a man can fight his battle with good courage, but
with a doubting conscience.  Such was not the case with Dr Grantly.  He did not believe in
the Gospel with more assurance than he did in the sacred justice of all ecclesiastical revenues.
When he put his shoulder to the wheel to defend the income of the present and future precentors
of Barchester, he was animated by as strong a sense of a holy cause, as that which gives courage
to a missionary in Africa, or enables a sister of mercy to give up the pleasures of the world
for the wards of a hospital.  He was about to defend the holy of holies from the touch of the
profane; to guard the citadel of his church from the most rampant of its enemies; to put on
his good armour in the best of fights, and secure, if possible, the comforts of his creed for
coming generations of ecclesiastical dignitaries.  Such a work required no ordinary vigour;
and the archdeacon was, therefore, extraordinarily vigorous.  It demanded a buoyant courage,
and a heart happy in its toil; and the archdeacon's heart was happy, and his courage was buoyant.

He knew that he would not be able to animate his father-in-law with feelings like his own,
but this did not much disturb him.  He preferred to bear the brunt of the battle alone, and
did not doubt that the warden would resign himself into his hands with passive submission.

"Well, Mr Chadwick," he said, walking into the steward's office a day or two after the signing
of the petition as commemorated in the last chapter: "anything from Cox and Cummins this morning?"
Mr Chadwick handed him a letter; which he read, stroking the tight-gaitered calf of his right
leg as he did so.  Messrs Cox and Cummins merely said that they had as yet received no notice
from their adversaries; that they could recommend no preliminary steps; but that should any
proceeding really be taken by the bedesmen, it would be expedient to consult that very eminent
Queen's Counsel, Sir Abraham Haphazard.

"I quite agree with them," said Dr Grantly, refolding the letter. "I perfectly agree with them.
Haphazard is no doubt the best man; a thorough churchman, a sound conservative, and in every
respect the best man we could get;--he's in the House, too, which is a great thing."

Mr Chadwick quite agreed.

"You remember how completely he put down that scoundrel Horseman about the Bishop of Beverley's
income; how completely he set them all adrift in the earl's case."  Since the question of St
Cross had been mooted by the public, one noble lord had become "the earl," par excellence,
in the doctor's estimation.  "How he silenced that fellow at Rochester.  Of course we must
have Haphazard; and I'll tell you what, Mr Chadwick, we must take care to be in time, or the
other party will forestall us."

With all his admiration for Sir Abraham, the doctor seemed to think it not impossible that
that great man might be induced to lend his gigantic powers to the side of the church's enemies.

Having settled this point to his satisfaction, the doctor stepped down to the hospital, to
learn how matters were going on there; and as he walked across the hallowed close, and looked
up at the ravens who cawed with a peculiar reverence as he wended his way, he thought with
increased acerbity of those whose impiety would venture to disturb the goodly grace of cathedral
institutions.

And who has not felt the same?  We believe that Mr Horseman himself would relent, and the spirit
of Sir Benjamin Hall give way, were those great reformers to allow themselves to stroll by
moonlight round the towers of some of our ancient churches.  Who would not feel charity for
a prebendary when walking the quiet length of that long aisle at Winchester, looking at those
decent houses, that trim grass-plat, and feeling, as one must, the solemn, orderly comfort
of the spot!  Who could be hard upon a dean while wandering round the sweet close of Hereford,
and owning that in that precinct, tone and colour, design and form, solemn tower and storied
window, are all in unison, and all perfect!  Who could lie basking in the cloisters of Salisbury,
and gaze on Jewel's library and that unequalled spire, without feeling that bishops should
sometimes be rich!

The tone of our archdeacon's mind must not astonish us; it has been the growth of centuries
of church ascendancy; and though some fungi now disfigure the tree, though there be much dead
wood, for how much good fruit have not we to be thankful?  Who, without remorse, can batter
down the dead branches of an old oak, now useless, but, ah! still so beautiful, or drag out
the fragments of the ancient forest, without feeling that they sheltered the younger plants,
to which they are now summoned to give way in a tone so peremptory and so harsh?

The archdeacon, with all his virtues, was not a man of delicate feeling; and after having made
his morning salutations in the warden's drawing-room, he did not scruple to commence an attack
on "pestilent" John Bold in the presence of Miss Harding, though he rightly guessed that that
lady was not indifferent to the name of his enemy.

"Nelly, my dear, fetch me my spectacles from the back room," said her father, anxious to save
both her blushes and her feelings.

Eleanor brought the spectacles, while her father was trying, in ambiguous phrases, to explain
to her too-practical brother-in-law that it might be as well not to say anything about Bold
before her, and then retreated.  Nothing had been explained to her about Bold and the hospital;
but, with a woman's instinct she knew that things were going wrong.

"We must soon be doing something," commenced the archdeacon, wiping his brows with a large,
bright-coloured handkerchief, for he had felt busy, and had walked quick, and it was a broiling
summer's day.  "Of course you have heard of the petition?"

Mr Harding owned, somewhat unwillingly, that he had heard of it.

"Well!"--the archdeacon looked for some expressions of opinion, but none coming, he continued,--"We
must be doing something, you know; we mustn't allow these people to cut the ground from under
us while we sit looking on."  The archdeacon, who was a practical man, allowed himself the
use of everyday expressive modes of speech when among his closest intimates, though no one
could soar into a more intricate labyrinth of refined phraseology when the church was the subject,
and his lower brethren were his auditors.

The warden still looked mutely in his face, making the slightest possible passes with an imaginary
fiddle bow, and stopping, as he did so, sundry imaginary strings with the fingers of his other
hand. 'Twas his constant consolation in conversational troubles.  While these vexed him sorely,
the passes would be short and slow, and the upper hand would not be seen to work; nay, the
strings on which it operated would sometimes lie concealed in the musician's pocket, and the
instrument on which he played would be beneath his chair;--but as his spirit warmed to the
subject,--as his trusting heart looking to the bottom of that which vexed him, would see its
clear way out,--he would rise to a higher melody, sweep the unseen strings with a bolder hand,
and swiftly fingering the cords from his neck, down along his waistcoat, and up again to his
very ear, create an ecstatic strain of perfect music, audible to himself and to St Cecilia,
and not without effect.

"I quite agree with Cox and Cummins," continued the archdeacon. "They say we must secure Sir
Abraham Haphazard.  I shall not have the slightest fear in leaving the case in Sir Abraham's
hands."

The warden played the slowest and saddest of tunes.  It was but a dirge on one string.

"I think Sir Abraham will not be long in letting Master Bold know what he's about.  I fancy
I hear Sir Abraham cross-questioning him at the Common Pleas."

The warden thought of his income being thus discussed, his modest life, his daily habits, and
his easy work; and nothing issued from that single cord, but a low wail of sorrow.  "I suppose
they've sent this petition up to my father."  The warden didn't know; he imagined they would
do so this very day.

"What I can't understand is, how you let them do it, with such a command as you have in the
place, or should have with such a man as Bunce.  I cannot understand why you let them do it."

"Do what?" asked the warden.

"Why, listen to this fellow Bold, and that other low pettifogger, Finney;--and get up this
petition too.  Why didn't you tell Bunce to destroy the petition?"

"That would have been hardly wise," said the warden.

"Wise;--yes, it would have been very wise if they'd done it among themselves.  I must go up
to the palace and answer it now, I suppose. It's a very short answer they'll get, I can tell you."

"But why shouldn't they petition, doctor?"

"Why shouldn't they!" responded the archdeacon, in a loud brazen voice, as though all the men
in the hospital were expected to hear him through the walls; "why shouldn't they?  I'll let
them know why they shouldn't; by the bye, warden, I'd like to say a few words to them all together."

The warden's mind misgave him, and even for a moment he forgot to play.  He by no means wished
to delegate to his son-in-law his place and authority of warden; he had expressly determined
not to interfere in any step which the men might wish to take in the matter under dispute;
he was most anxious neither to accuse them nor to defend himself.  All these things he was
aware the archdeacon would do in his behalf, and that not in the mildest manner; and yet he
knew not how to refuse the permission requested.

"I'd so much sooner remain quiet in the matter," said he, in an apologetic voice.

"Quiet!" said the archdeacon, still speaking with his brazen trumpet; "do you wish to be ruined
in quiet?"

"Why, if I am to be ruined, certainly."

"Nonsense, warden; I tell you something must be done;--we must act; just let me ring the bell,
and send the men word that I'll speak to them in the quad."

Mr Harding knew not how to resist, and the disagreeable order was given.  The quad, as it was
familiarly called, was a small quadrangle, open on one side to the river, and surrounded on
the others by the high wall of Mr Harding's garden, by one gable end of Mr Harding's house,
and by the end of the row of buildings which formed the residences of the bedesmen.  It was
flagged all round, and the centre was stoned; small stone gutters ran from the four corners
of the square to a grating in the centre; and attached to the end of Mr Harding's house was
a conduit with four cocks covered over from the weather, at which the old men got their water,
and very generally performed their morning toilet.  It was a quiet, sombre place, shaded over
by the trees of the warden's garden.  On the side towards the river, there stood a row of stone
seats, on which the old men would sit and gaze at the little fish, as they flitted by in the
running stream.  On the other side of the river was a rich, green meadow, running up to and
joining the deanery, and as little open to the public as the garden of the dean itself.  Nothing,
therefore, could be more private than the quad of the hospital; and it was there that the archdeacon
determined to convey to them his sense of their refractory proceedings.

The servant soon brought in word that the men were assembled in the quad, and the archdeacon,
big with his purpose, rose to address them.

"Well, warden, of course you're coming," said he, seeing that Mr Harding did not prepare to
follow him.

"I wish you'd excuse me," said Mr Harding.

"For heaven's sake, don't let us have division in the camp," replied the archdeacon: "let us
have a long pull and a strong pull, but above all a pull all together; come, warden, come;
don't be afraid of your duty."

Mr Harding was afraid; he was afraid that he was being led to do that which was not his duty;
he was not, however, strong enough to resist, so he got up and followed his son-in-law.

The old men were assembled in groups in the quadrangle--eleven of them at least, for poor old
Johnny Bell was bed-ridden, and couldn't come; he had, however, put his mark to the petition,
as one of Handy's earliest followers.  'Tis true he could not move from the bed where he lay;
'tis true he had no friend on earth, but those whom the hospital contained; and of those the
warden and his daughter were the most constant and most appreciated; 'tis true that everything
was administered to him which his failing body could require, or which his faint appetite could
enjoy; but still his dull eye had glistened for a moment at the idea of possessing a hundred
pounds a year "to his own cheek," as Abel Handy had eloquently expressed it; and poor old Johnny
Bell had greedily put his mark to the petition.

When the two clergymen appeared, they all uncovered their heads. Handy was slow to do it, and
hesitated; but the black coat and waistcoat of which he had spoken so irreverently in Skulpit's
room, had its effect even on him, and he too doffed his hat.  Bunce, advancing before the others,
bowed lowly to the archdeacon, and with affectionate reverence expressed his wish, that the
warden and Miss Eleanor were quite well; "and the doctor's lady," he added, turning to the
archdeacon, "and the children at Plumstead, and my lord;" and having made his speech, he also
retired among the others, and took his place with the rest upon the stone benches.

As the archdeacon stood up to make his speech, erect in the middle of that little square, he
looked like an ecclesiastical statue placed there, as a fitting impersonation of the church
militant here on earth; his shovel hat, large, new, and well-pronounced, a churchman's hat
in every inch, declared the profession as plainly as does the Quaker's broad brim; his heavy
eyebrows, large open eyes, and full mouth and chin expressed the solidity of his order; the
broad chest, amply covered with fine cloth, told how well to do was its estate; one hand ensconced
within his pocket, evinced the practical hold which our mother church keeps on her temporal
possessions; and the other, loose for action, was ready to fight if need be in her defence;
and, below these, the decorous breeches, and neat black gaiters showing so admirably that well-turned
leg, betokened the decency, the outward beauty and grace of our church establishment.

"Now, my men," he began, when he had settled himself well in his position, "I want to say a
few words to you.  Your good friend, the warden here, and myself, and my lord the bishop, on
whose behalf I wish to speak to you, would all be very sorry, very sorry indeed, that you should
have any just ground of complaint.  Any just ground of complaint on your part would be removed
at once by the warden, or by his lordship, or by me on his behalf, without the necessity of
any petition on your part."  Here the orator stopped for a moment, expecting that some little
murmurs of applause would show that the weakest of the men were beginning to give way; but
no such murmurs came.  Bunce, himself, even sat with closed lips, mute and unsatisfactory.
"Without the necessity of any petition at all," he repeated.  "I'm told you have addressed
a petition to my lord."  He paused for a reply from the men, and after a while, Handy plucked
up courage and said, "Yes, we has."

"You have addressed a petition to my lord, in which, as I am informed, you express an opinion
that you do not receive from Hiram's estate all that is your due."  Here most of the men expressed
their assent.  "Now what is it you ask for?  What is it you want that you hav'n't got here?
What is it--"

"A hundred a year," muttered old Moody, with a voice as if it came out of the ground.

"A hundred a year!" ejaculated the archdeacon militant, defying the impudence of these claimants
with one hand stretched out and closed, while with the other he tightly grasped, and secured
within his breeches pocket, that symbol of the church's wealth which his own loose half-crowns
not unaptly represented.  "A hundred a year! Why, my men, you must be mad; and you talk about
John Hiram's will! When John Hiram built a hospital for worn-out old men, worn-out old labouring
men, infirm old men past their work, cripples, blind, bed-ridden, and such like, do you think
he meant to make gentlemen of them?  Do you think John Hiram intended to give a hundred a year
to old single men, who earned perhaps two shillings or half-a-crown a day for themselves and
families in the best of their time?  No, my men, I'll tell you what John Hiram meant: he meant
that twelve poor old worn-out labourers, men who could no longer support themselves, who had
no friends to support them, who must starve and perish miserably if not protected by the hand
of charity;--he meant that twelve such men as these should come in here in their poverty and
wretchedness, and find within these walls shelter and food before their death, and a little
leisure to make their peace with God.  That was what John Hiram meant: you have not read John
Hiram's will, and I doubt whether those wicked men who are advising you have done so.  I have;
I know what his will was; and I tell you that that was his will, and that that was his intention."

Not a sound came from the eleven bedesmen, as they sat listening to what, according to the
archdeacon, was their intended estate.  They grimly stared upon his burly figure, but did not
then express, by word or sign, the anger and disgust to which such language was sure to give rise.

"Now let me ask you," he continued: "do you think you are worse off than John Hiram intended
to make you?  Have you not shelter, and food, and leisure?  Have you not much more?  Have you
not every indulgence which you are capable of enjoying?  Have you not twice better food, twice
a better bed, ten times more money in your pocket than you were ever able to earn for yourselves
before you were lucky enough to get into this place?  And now you send a petition to the bishop,
asking for a hundred pounds a year!  I tell you what, my friends; you are deluded, and made
fools of by wicked men who are acting for their own ends.  You will never get a hundred pence
a year more than what you have now: it is very possible that you may get less; it is very possible
that my lord the bishop, and your warden, may make changes--"

"No, no, no," interrupted Mr Harding, who had been listening with indescribable misery to the
tirade of his son-in-law; "no, my friends. I want no changes,--at least no changes that shall
make you worse off than you now are, as long as you and I live together."

"God bless you, Mr Harding," said Bunce; and "God bless you, Mr Harding, God bless you, sir:
we know you was always our friend," was exclaimed by enough of the men to make it appear that
the sentiment was general.

The archdeacon had been interrupted in his speech before he had quite finished it; but he felt
that he could not recommence with dignity after this little ebullition, and he led the way
back into the garden, followed by his father-in-law.

"Well," said he, as soon as he found himself within the cool retreat of the warden's garden;
"I think I spoke to them plainly."  And he wiped the perspiration from his brow; for making
a speech under a broiling mid-day sun in summer, in a full suit of thick black cloth, is warm work.

"Yes, you were plain enough," replied the warden, in a tone which did not express approbation.

"And that's everything," said the other, who was clearly well satisfied with himself; "that's
everything: with those sort of people one must be plain, or one will not be understood.  Now,
I think they did understand me;--I think they knew what I meant."

The warden agreed.  He certainly thought they had understood to the full what had been said
to them.

"They know pretty well what they have to expect from us; they know how we shall meet any refractory
spirit on their part; they know that we are not afraid of them.  And now I'll just step into
Chadwick's, and tell him what I've done; and then I'll go up to the palace, and answer this
petition of theirs."

The warden's mind was very full,--full nearly to overcharging itself; and had it done so,--had
he allowed himself to speak the thoughts which were working within him, he would indeed have
astonished the archdeacon by the reprobation he would have expressed as to the proceeding of
which he had been so unwilling a witness.  But different feelings kept him silent; he was as
yet afraid of differing from his son-in-law;--he was anxious beyond measure to avoid even a
semblance of rupture with any of his order, and was painfully fearful of having to come to
an open quarrel with any person on any subject.  His life had hitherto been so quiet, so free
from strife; his little early troubles had required nothing but passive fortitude; his subsequent
prosperity had never forced upon him any active cares,--had never brought him into disagreeable
contact with anyone.  He felt that he would give almost anything,--much more than he knew he
ought to do,--to relieve himself from the storm which he feared was coming. It was so hard
that the pleasant waters of his little stream should be disturbed and muddied by rough hands;
that his quiet paths should be made a battlefield; that the unobtrusive corner of the world
which had been allotted to him, as though by Providence, should be invaded and desecrated,
and all within it made miserable and unsound.

Money he had none to give; the knack of putting guineas together had never belonged to him;
but how willingly, with what a foolish easiness, with what happy alacrity, would he have abandoned
the half of his income for all time to come, could he by so doing have quietly dispelled the
clouds that were gathering over him,--could he have thus compromised the matter between the
reformer and the conservative, between his possible son-in-law, Bold, and his positive son-in-law,
the archdeacon.

And this compromise would not have been made from any prudential motive of saving what would
yet remain, for Mr Harding still felt little doubt but he should be left for life in quiet
possession of the good things he had, if he chose to retain them.  No; he would have done so
from the sheer love of quiet, and from a horror of being made the subject of public talk. 
He had very often been moved to pity.--to that inward weeping of the heart for others' woes;
but none had he ever pitied more than that old lord, whose almost fabulous wealth, drawn from
his church preferments, had become the subject of so much opprobrium, of such public scorn;
that wretched clerical octogenarian Croesus, whom men would not allow to die in peace,--whom
all the world united to decry and to abhor.

Was he to suffer such a fate?  Was his humble name to be bandied in men's mouths, as the gormandiser
of the resources of the poor, as of one who had filched from the charity of other ages wealth
which had been intended to relieve the old and the infirm?  Was he to be gibbeted in the press,
to become a byword for oppression, to be named as an example of the greed of the English church?
Should it ever be said that he had robbed those old men, whom he so truly and so tenderly loved
in his heart of hearts?  As he slowly paced, hour after hour, under those noble lime-trees,
turning these sad thoughts within him, he became all but fixed in his resolve that some great
step must be taken to relieve him from the risk of so terrible a fate.

In the meanwhile, the archdeacon, with contented mind and unruffled spirit, went about his
business.  He said a word or two to Mr Chadwick, and then finding, as he expected, the petition
lying in his father's library, he wrote a short answer to the men, in which he told them that
they had no evils to redress, but rather great mercies for which to be thankful; and having
seen the bishop sign it, he got into his brougham and returned home to Mrs Grantly, and Plumstead
Episcopi.

Chapter VI

THE WARDEN'S TEA PARTY

After much painful doubting, on one thing only could Mr Harding resolve.  He determined that
at any rate he would take no offence, and that he would make this question no cause of quarrel
either with Bold or with the bedesmen.  In furtherance of this resolution, he himself wrote
a note to Mr Bold, the same afternoon, inviting him to meet a few friends and hear some music
on an evening named in the next week. Had not this little party been promised to Eleanor, in
his present state of mind he would probably have avoided such gaiety; but the promise had been
given, the invitations were to be written, and when Eleanor consulted her father on the subject,
she was not ill pleased to hear him say, "Oh, I was thinking of Bold, so I took it into my
head to write to him myself, but you must write to his sister."

Mary Bold was older than her brother, and, at the time of our story, was just over thirty.
She was not an unattractive young woman, though by no means beautiful.  Her great merit was
the kindliness of her disposition.  She was not very clever, nor very animated, nor had she
apparently the energy of her brother; but she was guided by a high principle of right and wrong;
her temper was sweet, and her faults were fewer in number than her virtues.  Those who casually
met Mary Bold thought little of her; but those who knew her well loved her well, and the longer
they knew her the more they loved her.  Among those who were fondest of her was Eleanor Harding;
and though Eleanor had never openly talked to her of her brother, each understood the other's
feelings about him.  The brother and sister were sitting together when the two notes were brought
in.

"How odd," said Mary, "that they should send two notes.  Well, if Mr Harding becomes fashionable,
the world is going to change."

Her brother understood immediately the nature and intention of the peace-offering; but it was
not so easy for him to behave well in the matter, as it was for Mr Harding.  It is much less
difficult for the sufferer to be generous than for the oppressor.  John Bold felt that he could
not go to the warden's party: he never loved Eleanor better than he did now; he had never so
strongly felt how anxious he was to make her his wife as now, when so many obstacles to his
doing so appeared in view.  Yet here was her father himself, as it were, clearing away those
very obstacles, and still he felt that he could not go to the house any more as an open friend.

As he sat thinking of these things with the note in his hand, his sister was waiting for his
decision.

"Well," said she, "I suppose we must write separate answers, and both say we shall be very happy."

"You'll go, of course, Mary," said he; to which she readily assented. "I cannot," he continued,
looking serious and gloomy.  "I wish I could, with all my heart."

"And why not, John?" said she.  She had as yet heard nothing of the new-found abuse which her
brother was about to reform;--at least nothing which connected it with her brother's name.

He sat thinking for a while till he determined that it would be best to tell her at once what
it was that he was about: it must be done sooner or later.

"I fear I cannot go to Mr Harding's house any more as a friend, just at present."

"Oh, John!  Why not?  Ah, you've quarrelled with Eleanor!"

"No, indeed," said he; "I've no quarrel with her as yet."

"What is it, John?" said she, looking at him with an anxious, loving face, for she knew well
how much of his heart was there in that house which he said he could no longer enter.

"Why," said he at last, "I've taken up the case of these twelve old men of Hiram's Hospital,
and of course that brings me into contact with Mr Harding.  I may have to oppose him, interfere
with him,--perhaps injure him."

Mary looked at him steadily for some time before she committed herself to reply, and then merely
asked him what he meant to do for the old men.

"Why, it's a long story, and I don't know that I can make you understand it.  John Hiram made
a will, and left his property in charity for certain poor old men, and the proceeds, instead
of going to the benefit of these men, go chiefly into the pocket of the warden and the bishop's
steward."

"And you mean to take away from Mr Harding his share of it?"

"I don't know what I mean yet.  I mean to inquire about it. I mean to see who is entitled to
this property.  I mean to see, if I can, that justice be done to the poor of the city of Barchester
generally, who are, in fact, the legatees under the will.  I mean, in short, to put the matter
right, if I can."

"And why are you to do this, John?"

"You might ask the same question of anybody else," said he; "and according to that the duty
of righting these poor men would belong to nobody.  If we are to act on that principle, the
weak are never to be protected, injustice is never to be opposed, and no one is to struggle
for the poor!"  And Bold began to comfort himself in the warmth of his own virtue.

"But is there no one to do this but you, who have known Mr Harding so long?  Surely, John,
as a friend, as a young friend, so much younger than Mr Harding--"

"That's woman's logic, all over, Mary.  What has age to do with it? Another man might plead
that he was too old; and as to his friendship, if the thing itself be right, private motives
should never be allowed to interfere.  Because I esteem Mr Harding, is that a reason that I
should neglect a duty which I owe to these old men? or should I give up a work which my conscience
tells me is a good one, because I regret the loss of his society?"

"And Eleanor, John?" said the sister, looking timidly into her brother's face.

"Eleanor, that is, Miss Harding, if she thinks fit,--that is, if her father--or, rather, if
she--or, indeed, he,--if they find it necessary--but there is no necessity now to talk about
Eleanor Harding; but this I will say, that if she has the kind of spirit for which I give her
credit, she will not condemn me for doing what I think to be a duty."  And Bold consoled himself
with the consolation of a Roman.

Mary sat silent for a while, till at last her brother reminded her that the notes must be answered,
and she got up, and placed her desk before her, took out her pen and paper, wrote on it slowly:

                              PAKENHAM VILLAS
                              Tuesday morning
   MY DEAR ELEANOR,

   I--

and then stopped, and looked at her brother.

"Well, Mary, why don't you write it?"

"Oh, John," said she, "dear John, pray think better of this."

"Think better of what?" said he.

"Of this about the hospital,--of all this about Mr Harding,--of what you say about those old
men.  Nothing can call upon you,--no duty can require you to set yourself against your oldest,
your best friend. Oh, John, think of Eleanor.  You'll break her heart, and your own."

"Nonsense, Mary; Miss Harding's heart is as safe as yours."

"Pray, pray, for my sake, John, give it up.  You know how dearly you love her."  And she came
and knelt before him on the rug.  "Pray give it up.  You are going to make yourself, and her,
and her father miserable: you are going to make us all miserable.  And for what?  For a dream
of justice.  You will never make those twelve men happier than they now are."

"You don't understand it, my dear girl," said he, smoothing her hair with his hand.

"I do understand it, John.  I understand that this is a chimera,--a dream that you have got.
I know well that no duty can require you to do this mad--this suicidal thing.  I know you love
Eleanor Harding with all your heart, and I tell you now that she loves you as well. If there
was a plain, a positive duty before you, I would be the last to bid you neglect it for any
woman's love; but this--; oh, think again, before you do anything to make it necessary that
you and Mr Harding should be at variance."  He did not answer, as she knelt there, leaning
on his knees, but by his face she thought that he was inclined to yield.  "At any rate let
me say that you will go to this party.  At any rate do not break with them while your mind
is in doubt."  And she got up, hoping to conclude her note in the way she desired.

"My mind is not in doubt," at last he said, rising.  "I could never respect myself again were
I to give way now, because Eleanor Harding is beautiful.  I do love her: I would give a hand
to hear her tell me what you have said, speaking on her behalf; but I cannot for her sake go
back from the task which I have commenced.  I hope she may hereafter acknowledge and respect
my motives, but I cannot now go as a guest to her father's house."  And the Barchester Brutus
went out to fortify his own resolution by meditations on his own virtue.

Poor Mary Bold sat down, and sadly finished her note, saying that she would herself attend
the party, but that her brother was unavoidably prevented from doing so.  I fear that she did
not admire as she should have done the self-devotion of his singular virtue.

The party went off as such parties do.  There were fat old ladies, in fine silk dresses, and
slim young ladies, in gauzy muslin frocks; old gentlemen stood up with their backs to the empty
fire-place, looking by no means so comfortable as they would have done in their own arm-chairs
at home; and young gentlemen, rather stiff about the neck, clustered near the door, not as
yet sufficiently in courage to attack the muslin frocks, who awaited the battle, drawn up in
a semicircular array.  The warden endeavoured to induce a charge, but failed signally, not
having the tact of a general; his daughter did what she could to comfort the forces under her
command, who took in refreshing rations of cake and tea, and patiently looked for the coming
engagement: but she herself, Eleanor, had no spirit for the work; the only enemy whose lance
she cared to encounter was not there, and she and others were somewhat dull.

Loud above all voices was heard the clear sonorous tones of the archdeacon as he dilated to
brother parsons of the danger of the church, of the fearful rumours of mad reforms even at
Oxford, and of the damnable heresies of Dr Whiston.

Soon, however, sweeter sounds began timidly to make themselves audible.  Little movements were
made in a quarter notable for round stools and music stands.  Wax candles were arranged in
sconces, big books were brought from hidden recesses, and the work of the evening commenced.

How often were those pegs twisted and re-twisted before our friend found that he had twisted
them enough; how many discordant scrapes gave promise of the coming harmony.  How much the
muslin fluttered and crumpled before Eleanor and another nymph were duly seated at the piano;
how closely did that tall Apollo pack himself against the wall, with his flute, long as himself,
extending high over the heads of his pretty neighbours; into how small a corner crept that
round and florid little minor canon, and there with skill amazing found room to tune his accustomed
fiddle!

And now the crash begins: away they go in full flow of harmony together,--up hill and down
dale,--now louder and louder, then lower and lower; now loud, as though stirring the battle;
then low, as though mourning the slain.  In all, through all, and above all, is heard the violoncello.
Ah, not for nothing were those pegs so twisted and re-twisted;--listen, listen!  Now alone
that saddest of instruments tells its touching tale.  Silent, and in awe, stand fiddle, flute,
and piano, to hear the sorrows of their wailing brother.  'Tis but for a moment: before the
melancholy of those low notes has been fully realised, again comes the full force of all the
band;--down go the pedals, away rush twenty fingers scouring over the bass notes with all the
impetus of passion.  Apollo blows till his stiff neckcloth is no better than a rope, and the
minor canon works with both arms till he falls in a syncope of exhaustion against the wall.

How comes it that now, when all should be silent, when courtesy, if not taste, should make
men listen,--how is it at this moment the black-coated corps leave their retreat and begin
skirmishing?  One by one they creep forth, and fire off little guns timidly, and without precision.
Ah, my men, efforts such as these will take no cities, even though the enemy should be never
so open to assault.  At length a more deadly artillery is brought to bear; slowly, but with
effect, the advance is made; the muslin ranks are broken, and fall into confusion; the formidable
array of chairs gives way; the battle is no longer between opposing regiments, but hand to
hand, and foot to foot with single combatants, as in the glorious days of old, when fighting
was really noble.  In corners, and under the shadow of curtains, behind sofas and half hidden
by doors, in retiring windows, and sheltered by hanging tapestry, are blows given and returned,
fatal, incurable, dealing death.

Apart from this another combat arises, more sober and more serious. The archdeacon is engaged
against two prebendaries, a pursy full-blown rector assisting him, in all the perils and all
the enjoyments of short whist.  With solemn energy do they watch the shuffled pack, and, all-expectant,
eye the coming trump.  With what anxious nicety do they arrange their cards, jealous of each
other's eyes!  Why is that lean doctor so slow,--cadaverous man with hollow jaw and sunken
eye, ill beseeming the richness of his mother church!  Ah, why so slow, thou meagre doctor?
See how the archdeacon, speechless in his agony, deposits on the board his cards, and looks
to heaven or to the ceiling for support.  Hark, how he sighs, as with thumbs in his waistcoat
pocket he seems to signify that the end of such torment is not yet even nigh at hand!  Vain
is the hope, if hope there be, to disturb that meagre doctor.  With care precise he places
every card, weighs well the value of each mighty ace, each guarded king, and comfort-giving
queen; speculates on knave and ten, counts all his suits, and sets his price upon the whole.
At length a card is led, and quick three others fall upon the board.  The little doctor leads
again, while with lustrous eye his partner absorbs the trick.  Now thrice has this been done,--thrice
has constant fortune favoured the brace of prebendaries, ere the archdeacon rouses himself
to the battle; but at the fourth assault he pins to the earth a prostrate king, laying low
his crown and sceptre, bushy beard, and lowering brow, with a poor deuce.

"As David did Goliath," says the archdeacon, pushing over the four cards to his partner.  And
then a trump is led, then another trump; then a king,--and then an ace,--and then a long ten,
which brings down from the meagre doctor his only remaining tower of strength--his cherished
queen of trumps.

"What, no second club?" says the archdeacon to his partner.

"Only one club," mutters from his inmost stomach the pursy rector, who sits there red-faced,
silent, impervious, careful, a safe but not a brilliant ally.

But the archdeacon cares not for many clubs, or for none.  He dashes out his remaining cards
with a speed most annoying to his antagonists, pushes over to them some four cards as their
allotted portion, shoves the remainder across the table to the red-faced rector; calls out
"two by cards and two by honours, and the odd trick last time," marks a treble under the candle-stick,
and has dealt round the second pack before the meagre doctor has calculated his losses.

And so went off the warden's party, and men and women arranging shawls and shoes declared how
pleasant it had been; and Mrs Goodenough, the red-faced rector's wife, pressing the warden's
hand, declared she had never enjoyed herself better; which showed how little pleasure she allowed
herself in this world, as she had sat the whole evening through in the same chair without occupation,
not speaking, and unspoken to.  And Matilda Johnson, when she allowed young Dickson of the
bank to fasten her cloak round her neck, thought that two hundred pounds a year and a little
cottage would really do for happiness; besides, he was sure to be manager some day.  And Apollo,
folding his flute into his pocket, felt that he had acquitted himself with honour; and the
archdeacon pleasantly jingled his gains; but the meagre doctor went off without much audible
speech, muttering ever and anon as he went, "three and thirty points!" "three and thirty points!"

And so they all were gone, and Mr Harding was left alone with his daughter.

What had passed between Eleanor Harding and Mary Bold need not be told.  It is indeed a matter
of thankfulness that neither the historian nor the novelist hears all that is said by their
heroes or heroines, or how would three volumes or twenty suffice!  In the present case so little
of this sort have I overheard, that I live in hopes of finishing my work within 300 pages,
and of completing that pleasant task--a novel in one volume; but something had passed between
them, and as the warden blew out the wax candles, and put his instrument into its case, his
daughter stood sad and thoughtful by the empty fire-place, determined to speak to her father,
but irresolute as to what she would say.

"Well, Eleanor," said he, "are you for bed?"

"Yes," said she, moving, "I suppose so; but papa--Mr Bold was not here tonight; do you know
why not?"

"He was asked; I wrote to him myself," said the warden.

"But do you know why he did not come, papa?"

"Well, Eleanor, I could guess; but it's no use guessing at such things, my dear.  What makes
you look so earnest about it?"

"Oh, papa, do tell me," she exclaimed, throwing her arms round him, and looking into his face;
"what is it he is going to do?  What is it all about?  Is there any--any--any--" she didn't
well know what word to use--"any danger?"

"Danger, my dear, what sort of danger?"

"Danger to you, danger of trouble, and of loss, and of--Oh, papa, why haven't you told me of
all this before?"

Mr Harding was not the man to judge harshly of anyone, much less of the daughter whom he now
loved better than any living creature; but still he did judge her wrongly at this moment. 
He knew that she loved John Bold; he fully sympathised in her affection; day after day he thought
more of the matter, and, with the tender care of a loving father, tried to arrange in his own
mind how matters might be so managed that his daughter's heart should not be made the sacrifice
to the dispute which was likely to exist between him and Bold.  Now, when she spoke to him
for the first time on the subject, it was natural that he should think more of her than of
himself, and that he should imagine that her own cares, and not his, were troubling her.

He stood silent before her awhile, as she gazed up into his face, and then kissing her forehead
he placed her on the sofa.

"Tell me, Nelly," he said (he only called her Nelly in his kindest, softest, sweetest moods,
and yet all his moods were kind and sweet), "tell me, Nelly, do you like Mr Bold--much?"

She was quite taken aback by the question.  I will not say that she had forgotten herself,
and her own love in thinking about John Bold, and while conversing with Mary: she certainly
had not done so.  She had been sick at heart to think that a man of whom she could not but
own to herself that she loved him, of whose regard she had been so proud, that such a man should
turn against her father to ruin him. She had felt her vanity hurt, that his affection for her
had not kept him from such a course; had he really cared for her, he would not have risked
her love by such an outrage.  But her main fear had been for her father, and when she spoke
of danger, it was of danger to him and not to herself.

She was taken aback by the question altogether: "Do I like him, papa?"

"Yes, Nelly, do you like him?  Why shouldn't you like him? but that's a poor word;--do you
love him?"  She sat still in his arms without answering him.  She certainly had not prepared
herself for an avowal of affection, intending, as she had done, to abuse John Bold herself,
and to hear her father do so also.  "Come, my love," said he, "let us make a clean breast of
it: do you tell me what concerns yourself, and I will tell you what concerns me and the hospital."

And then, without waiting for an answer, he described to her, as he best could, the accusation
that was made about Hiram's will; the claims which the old men put forward; what he considered
the strength and what the weakness of his own position; the course which Bold had taken, and
that which he presumed he was about to take; and then by degrees, without further question,
he presumed on the fact of Eleanor's love, and spoke of that love as a feeling which he could
in no way disapprove: he apologised for Bold, excused what he was doing; nay, praised him for
his energy and intentions; made much of his good qualities, and harped on none of his foibles;
then, reminding his daughter how late it was, and comforting her with much assurance which
he hardly felt himself, he sent her to her room, with flowing eyes and a full heart.

When Mr Harding met his daughter at breakfast the next morning, there was no further discussion
on the matter, nor was the subject mentioned between them for some days.  Soon after the party
Mary Bold called at the hospital, but there were various persons in the drawing-room at the
time, and she therefore said nothing about her brother.  On the day following, John Bold met
Miss Harding in one of the quiet, sombre, shaded walks of the close.  He was most anxious to
see her, but unwilling to call at the warden's house, and had in truth waylaid her in her private
haunts.

"My sister tells me," said he, abruptly hurrying on with his premeditated speech, "my sister
tells me that you had a delightful party the other evening.  I was so sorry I could not be there."

"We were all sorry," said Eleanor, with dignified composure.

"I believe, Miss Harding, you understand why, at this moment--"  And Bold hesitated, muttered,
stopped, commenced his explanation again, and again broke down.

Eleanor would not help him in the least.

"I think my sister explained to you, Miss Harding?"

"Pray don't apologise, Mr Bold; my father will, I am sure, always be glad to see you, if you
like to come to the house now as formerly; nothing has occurred to alter his feelings: of your
own views you are, of course, the best judge."

"Your father is all that is kind and generous; he always was so; but you, Miss Harding, yourself--I
hope you will not judge me harshly, because--"

"Mr Bold," said she, "you may be sure of one thing; I shall always judge my father to be right,
and those who oppose him I shall judge to be wrong.  If those who do not know him oppose him,
I shall have charity enough to believe that they are wrong, through error of judgment; but
should I see him attacked by those who ought to know him, and to love him, and revere him,
of such I shall be constrained to form a different opinion."  And then curtseying low she sailed
on, leaving her lover in anything but a happy state of mind.

Chapter VII

THE JUPITER

Though Eleanor Harding rode off from John Bold on a high horse, it must not be supposed that
her heart was so elate as her demeanour. In the first place, she had a natural repugnance to
losing her lover; and in the next, she was not quite so sure that she was in the right as she
pretended to be.  Her father had told her, and that now repeatedly, that Bold was doing nothing
unjust or ungenerous; and why then should she rebuke him, and throw him off, when she felt
herself so ill able to bear his loss?--but such is human nature, and young-lady-nature especially.

As she walked off from him beneath the shady elms of the close, her look, her tone, every motion
and gesture of her body, belied her heart; she would have given the world to have taken him
by the hand, to have reasoned with him, persuaded him, cajoled him, coaxed him out of his project;
to have overcome him with all her female artillery, and to have redeemed her father at the
cost of herself; but pride would not let her do this, and she left him without a look of love
or a word of kindness.

Had Bold been judging of another lover and of another lady, he might have understood all this
as well as we do; but in matters of love men do not see clearly in their own affairs.  They
say that faint heart never won fair lady; and it is amazing to me how fair ladies are won,
so faint are often men's hearts!  Were it not for the kindness of their nature, that seeing
the weakness of our courage they will occasionally descend from their impregnable fortresses,
and themselves aid us in effecting their own defeat, too often would they escape unconquered
if not unscathed, and free of body if not of heart.

Poor Bold crept off quite crestfallen; he felt that as regarded Eleanor Harding his fate was
sealed, unless he could consent to give up a task to which he had pledged himself, and which
indeed it would not be easy for him to give up.  Lawyers were engaged, and the question had
to a certain extent been taken up by the public; besides, how could a high-spirited girl like
Eleanor Harding really learn to love a man for neglecting a duty which he assumed!  Could she
allow her affection to be purchased at the cost of his own self-respect?

As regarded the issue of his attempt at reformation in the hospital, Bold had no reason hitherto
to be discontented with his success. All Barchester was by the ears about it.  The bishop,
the archdeacon, the warden, the steward, and several other clerical allies, had daily meetings,
discussing their tactics, and preparing for the great attack.  Sir Abraham Haphazard had been
consulted, but his opinion was not yet received: copies of Hiram's will, copies of wardens'
journals, copies of leases, copies of accounts, copies of everything that could be copied,
and of some that could not, had been sent to him; and the case was assuming most creditable
dimensions.  But, above all, it had been mentioned in the daily Jupiter.  That all-powerful
organ of the press in one of its leading thunderbolts launched at St Cross, had thus remarked:
"Another case, of smaller dimensions indeed, but of similar import, is now likely to come under
public notice.  We are informed that the warden or master of an old almshouse attached to Barchester
Cathedral is in receipt of twenty-five times the annual income appointed for him by the will
of the founder, while the sum yearly expended on the absolute purposes of the charity has always
remained fixed.  In other words, the legatees under the founder's will have received no advantage
from the increase in the value of the property during the last four centuries, such increase
having been absorbed by the so-called warden.  It is impossible to conceive a case of greater
injustice.  It is no answer to say that some six or nine or twelve old men receive as much
of the goods of this world as such old men require.  On what foundation, moral or divine, traditional
or legal, is grounded the warden's claim to the large income he receives for doing nothing?
The contentment of these almsmen, if content they be, can give him no title to this wealth!
Does he ever ask himself, when he stretches wide his clerical palm to receive the pay of some
dozen of the working clergy, for what service he is so remunerated?  Does his conscience ever
entertain the question of his right to such subsidies?  Or is it possible that the subject
never so presents itself to his mind; that he has received for many years, and intends, should
God spare him, to receive for years to come these fruits of the industrious piety of past ages,
indifferent as to any right on his own part, or of any injustice to others!  We must express
an opinion that nowhere but in the Church of England, and only there among its priests, could
such a state of moral indifference be found."

I must for the present leave my readers to imagine the state of Mr Harding's mind after reading
the above article.  They say that forty thousand copies of The Jupiter are daily sold, and
that each copy is read by five persons at the least.  Two hundred thousand readers then would
hear this accusation against him; two hundred thousand hearts would swell with indignation
at the griping injustice, the barefaced robbery of the warden of Barchester Hospital!  And
how was he to answer this?  How was he to open his inmost heart to this multitude, to these
thousands, the educated, the polished, the picked men of his own country; how show them that
he was no robber, no avaricious, lazy priest scrambling for gold, but a retiring, humble-spirited
man, who had innocently taken what had innocently been offered to him?

"Write to The Jupiter," suggested the bishop.

"Yes," said the archdeacon, more worldly wise than his father, "yes, and be smothered with
ridicule; tossed over and over again with scorn; shaken this way and that, as a rat in the
mouth of a practised terrier.  You will leave out some word or letter in your answer, and the
ignorance of the cathedral clergy will be harped upon; you will make some small mistake, which
will be a falsehood, or some admission, which will be self-condemnation; you will find yourself
to have been vulgar, ill-tempered, irreverend, and illiterate, and the chances are ten to one,
but that being a clergyman, you will have been guilty of blasphemy!  A man may have the best
of causes, the best of talents, and the best of tempers; he may write as well as Addison, or
as strongly as Junius; but even with all this he cannot successfully answer, when attacked
by The Jupiter.  In such matters it is omnipotent.  What the Czar is in Russia, or the mob
in America, that The Jupiter is in England.  Answer such an article!  No, warden; whatever
you do, don't do that.  We were to look for this sort of thing, you know; but we need not draw
down on our heads more of it than is necessary."

The article in The Jupiter, while it so greatly harassed our poor warden, was an immense triumph
to some of the opposite party.  Sorry as Bold was to see Mr Harding attacked so personally,
it still gave him a feeling of elation to find his cause taken up by so powerful an advocate:
and as to Finney, the attorney, he was beside himself. What! to be engaged in the same cause
and on the same side with The Jupiter; to have the views he had recommended seconded, and furthered,
and battled for by The Jupiter!  Perhaps to have his own name mentioned as that of the learned
gentleman whose efforts had been so successful on behalf of the poor of Barchester!  He might
be examined before committees of the House of Commons, with heaven knows how much a day for
his personal expenses;--he might be engaged for years on such a suit!  There was no end to
the glorious golden dreams which this leader in The Jupiter produced in the soaring mind of Finney.

And the old bedesmen, they also heard of this article, and had a glimmering, indistinct idea
of the marvellous advocate which had now taken up their cause.  Abel Handy limped hither and
thither through the rooms, repeating all that he understood to have been printed, with some
additions of his own which he thought should have been added.  He told them how The Jupiter
had declared that their warden was no better than a robber, and that what The Jupiter said
was acknowledged by the world to be true.  How The Jupiter had affirmed that each one of them--"each
one of us, Jonathan Crumple, think of that!"--had a clear right to a hundred a year; and that
if The Jupiter had said so, it was better than a decision of the Lord Chancellor: and then
he carried about the paper, supplied by Mr Finney, which, though none of them could read it,
still afforded in its very touch and aspect positive corroboration of what was told them; and
Jonathan Crumple pondered deeply over his returning wealth; and Job Skulpit saw how right he
had been in signing the petition, and said so many scores of times; and Spriggs leered fearfully
with his one eye; and Moody, as he more nearly approached the coming golden age, hated more
deeply than ever those who still kept possession of what he so coveted.  Even Billy Gazy and
poor bed-ridden Bell became active and uneasy, and the great Bunce stood apart with lowering
brow, with deep grief seated in his heart, for he perceived that evil days were coming.

It had been decided, the archdeacon advising, that no remonstrance, explanation, or defence
should be addressed from the Barchester conclave to the editor of The Jupiter; but hitherto
that was the only decision to which they had come.

Sir Abraham Haphazard was deeply engaged in preparing a bill for the mortification of papists,
to be called the "Convent Custody Bill," the purport of which was to enable any Protestant
clergyman over fifty years of age to search any nun whom he suspected of being in possession
of treasonable papers or Jesuitical symbols; and as there were to be a hundred and thirty-seven
clauses in the bill, each clause containing a separate thorn for the side of the papist, and
as it was known the bill would be fought inch by inch, by fifty maddened Irishmen, the due
construction and adequate dovetailing of it did consume much of Sir Abraham's time.  The bill
had all its desired effect.  Of course it never passed into law; but it so completely divided
the ranks of the Irish members, who had bound themselves together to force on the ministry
a bill for compelling all men to drink Irish whiskey, and all women to wear Irish poplins,
that for the remainder of the session the Great Poplin and Whiskey League was utterly harmless.

Thus it happened that Sir Abraham's opinion was not at once forthcoming, and the uncertainty,
the expectation, and suffering of the folk of Barchester was maintained at a high pitch.

Chapter VIII

PLUMSTEAD EPISCOPI

The reader must now be requested to visit the rectory of Plumstead Episcopi; and as it is as
yet still early morning, to ascend again with us into the bedroom of the archdeacon.  The mistress
of the mansion was at her toilet; on which we will not dwell with profane eyes, but proceed
into a small inner room, where the doctor dressed and kept his boots and sermons; and here
we will take our stand, premising that the door of the room was so open as to admit of a conversation
between our reverend Adam and his valued Eve.

"It's all your own fault, archdeacon," said the latter.  "I told you from the beginning how
it would end, and papa has no one to thank but you."

"Good gracious, my dear," said the doctor, appearing at the door of his dressing-room, with
his face and head enveloped in the rough towel which he was violently using; "how can you say
so?  I am doing my very best."

"I wish you had never done so much," said the lady, interrupting him. "If you'd just have let
John Bold come and go there, as he and papa liked, he and Eleanor would have been married by
this time, and we should not have heard one word about all this affair."

"But, my dear--"

"Oh, it's all very well, archdeacon; and of course you're right; I don't for a moment think
you'll ever admit that you could be wrong; but the fact is, you've brought this young man down
upon papa by huffing him as you have done."

"But, my love--"

"And all because you didn't like John Bold for a brother-in-law. How is she ever to do better?
Papa hasn't got a shilling; and though Eleanor is well enough, she has not at all a taking
style of beauty. I'm sure I don't know how she's to do better than marry John Bold; or as well
indeed," added the anxious sister, giving the last twist to her last shoe-string.

Dr Grantly felt keenly the injustice of this attack; but what could he say?  He certainly had
huffed John Bold; he certainly had objected to him as a brother-in-law, and a very few months
ago the very idea had excited his wrath: but now matters were changed; John Bold had shown
his power, and, though he was as odious as ever to the archdeacon, power is always respected,
and the reverend dignitary began to think that such an alliance might not have been imprudent.
Nevertheless, his motto was still "no surrender;" he would still fight it out; he believed
confidently in Oxford, in the bench of bishops, in Sir Abraham Haphazard, and in himself; and
it was only when alone with his wife that doubts of defeat ever beset him.  He once more tried
to communicate this confidence to Mrs Grantly, and for the twentieth time began to tell her
of Sir Abraham.

"Oh, Sir Abraham!" said she, collecting all her house keys into her basket before she descended;
"Sir Abraham won't get Eleanor a husband; Sir Abraham won't get papa another income when he
has been worreted out of the hospital.  Mark what I tell you, archdeacon: while you and Sir
Abraham are fighting, papa will lose his preferment; and what will you do then with him and
Eleanor on your hands? besides, who's to pay Sir Abraham?  I suppose he won't take the case
up for nothing?"  And so the lady descended to family worship among her children and servants,
the pattern of a good and prudent wife.

Dr Grantly was blessed with a happy, thriving family.  There were, first, three boys, now at
home from school for the holidays.  They were called, respectively, Charles James, Henry, and
Samuel.  The two younger (there were five in all) were girls; the elder, Florinda, bore the
name of the Archbishop of York's wife, whose godchild she was: and the younger had been christened
Grizzel, after a sister of the Archbishop of Canterbury.  The boys were all clever, and gave
good promise of being well able to meet the cares and trials of the world; and yet they were
not alike in their dispositions, and each had his individual character, and each his separate
admirers among the doctor's friends.

Charles James was an exact and careful boy; he never committed himself; he well knew how much
was expected from the eldest son of the Archdeacon of Barchester, and was therefore mindful
not to mix too freely with other boys.  He had not the great talents of his younger brothers,
but he exceeded them in judgment and propriety of demeanour; his fault, if he had one, was
an over-attention to words instead of things; there was a thought too much finesse about him,
and, as even his father sometimes told him, he was too fond of a compromise.

The second was the archdeacon's favourite son, and Henry was indeed a brilliant boy.  The versatility
of his genius was surprising, and the visitors at Plumstead Episcopi were often amazed at the
marvellous manner in which he would, when called on, adapt his capacity to apparently most
uncongenial pursuits.  He appeared once before a large circle as Luther the reformer, and delighted
them with the perfect manner in which he assumed the character; and within three days he again
astonished them by acting the part of a Capuchin friar to the very life.  For this last exploit
his father gave him a golden guinea, and his brothers said the reward had been promised beforehand
in the event of the performance being successful.  He was also sent on a tour into Devonshire;
a treat which the lad was most anxious of enjoying. His father's friends there, however, did
not appreciate his talents, and sad accounts were sent home of the perversity of his nature.
He was a most courageous lad, game to the backbone.

It was soon known, both at home, where he lived, and within some miles of Barchester Cathedral,
and also at Westminster, where he was at school, that young Henry could box well and would
never own himself beat; other boys would fight while they had a leg to stand on, but he would
fight with no leg at all.  Those backing him would sometimes think him crushed by the weight
of blows and faint with loss of blood, and his friends would endeavour to withdraw him from
the contest; but no, Henry never gave in, was never weary of the battle.  The ring was the
only element in which he seemed to enjoy himself; and while other boys were happy in the number
of their friends, he rejoiced most in the multitude of his foes.

His relations could not but admire his pluck, but they sometimes were forced to regret that
he was inclined to be a bully; and those not so partial to him as his father was, observed
with pain that, though he could fawn to the masters and the archdeacon's friends, he was imperious
and masterful to the servants and the poor.

But perhaps Samuel was the general favourite; and dear little Soapy, as he was familiarly called,
was as engaging a child as ever fond mother petted.  He was soft and gentle in his manners,
and attractive in his speech; the tone of his voice was melody, and every action was a grace;
unlike his brothers, he was courteous to all, he was affable to the lowly, and meek even to
the very scullery-maid.  He was a boy of great promise, minding his books and delighting the
hearts of his masters.  His brothers, however, were not particularly fond of him; they would
complain to their mother that Soapy's civility all meant something; they thought that his voice
was too often listened to at Plumstead Episcopi, and evidently feared that, as he grew up,
he would have more weight in the house than either of them; there was, therefore, a sort of
agreement among them to put young Soapy down. This, however, was not so easy to be done; Samuel,
though young, was sharp; he could not assume the stiff decorum of Charles James, nor could
he fight like Henry; but he was a perfect master of his own weapons, and contrived, in the
teeth of both of them, to hold the place which he had assumed.  Henry declared that he was
a false, cunning creature; and Charles James, though he always spoke of him as his dear brother
Samuel, was not slow to say a word against him when opportunity offered.  To speak the truth,
Samuel was a cunning boy, and those even who loved him best could not but own that for one
so young, he was too adroit in choosing his words, and too skilled in modulating his voice.

The two little girls Florinda and Grizzel were nice little girls enough, but they did not possess
the strong sterling qualities of their brothers; their voices were not often heard at Plumstead
Episcopi; they were bashful and timid by nature, slow to speak before company even when asked
to do so; and though they looked very nice in their clean white muslin frocks and pink sashes,
they were but little noticed by the archdeacon's visitors.

Whatever of submissive humility may have appeared in the gait and visage of the archdeacon
during his colloquy with his wife in the sanctum of their dressing-rooms was dispelled as he
entered his breakfast-parlour with erect head and powerful step.  In the presence of a third
person he assumed the lord and master; and that wise and talented lady too well knew the man
to whom her lot for life was bound, to stretch her authority beyond the point at which it would
be borne.  Strangers at Plumstead Episcopi, when they saw the imperious brow with which he
commanded silence from the large circle of visitors, children, and servants who came together
in the morning to hear him read the word of God, and watched how meekly that wife seated herself
behind her basket of keys with a little girl on each side, as she caught that commanding glance;
strangers, I say, seeing this, could little guess that some fifteen minutes since she had stoutly
held her ground against him, hardly allowing him to open his mouth in his own defence. But
such is the tact and talent of women!

And now let us observe the well-furnished breakfast-parlour at Plumstead Episcopi, and the
comfortable air of all the belongings of the rectory.  Comfortable they certainly were, but
neither gorgeous nor even grand; indeed, considering the money that had been spent there, the
eye and taste might have been better served; there was an air of heaviness about the rooms
which might have been avoided without any sacrifice of propriety; colours might have been better
chosen and lights more perfectly diffused; but perhaps in doing so the thorough clerical aspect
of the whole might have been somewhat marred; at any rate, it was not without ample consideration
that those thick, dark, costly carpets were put down; those embossed, but sombre papers hung
up; those heavy curtains draped so as to half exclude the light of the sun: nor were these
old-fashioned chairs, bought at a price far exceeding that now given for more modern goods,
without a purpose. The breakfast-service on the table was equally costly and equally plain;
the apparent object had been to spend money without obtaining brilliancy or splendour.  The
urn was of thick and solid silver, as were also the tea-pot, coffee-pot, cream-ewer, and sugar-bowl;
the cups were old, dim dragon china, worth about a pound a piece, but very despicable in the
eyes of the uninitiated.  The silver forks were so heavy as to be disagreeable to the hand,
and the bread-basket was of a weight really formidable to any but robust persons.  The tea
consumed was the very best, the coffee the very blackest, the cream the very thickest; there
was dry toast and buttered toast, muffins and crumpets; hot bread and cold bread, white bread
and brown bread, home-made bread and bakers' bread, wheaten bread and oaten bread; and if there
be other breads than these, they were there; there were eggs in napkins, and crispy bits of
bacon under silver covers; and there were little fishes in a little box, and devilled kidneys
frizzling on a hot-water dish; which, by the bye, were placed closely contiguous to the plate
of the worthy archdeacon himself.  Over and above this, on a snow-white napkin, spread upon
the sideboard, was a huge ham and a huge sirloin; the latter having laden the dinner table
on the previous evening.  Such was the ordinary fare at Plumstead Episcopi.

And yet I have never found the rectory a pleasant house.  The fact that man shall not live
by bread alone seemed to be somewhat forgotten; and noble as was the appearance of the host,
and sweet and good-natured as was the face of the hostess, talented as were the children, and
excellent as were the viands and the wines, in spite of these attractions, I generally found
the rectory somewhat dull. After breakfast the archdeacon would retire, of course to his clerical
pursuits.  Mrs Grantly, I presume, inspected her kitchen, though she had a first-rate housekeeper,
with sixty pounds a year; and attended to the lessons of Florinda and Grizzel, though she had
an excellent governess with thirty pounds a year: but at any rate she disappeared: and I never
could make companions of the boys.  Charles James, though he always looked as though there
was something in him, never seemed to have much to say; and what he did say he would always
unsay the next minute.  He told me once that he considered cricket, on the whole, to be a gentleman-like
game for boys, provided they would play without running about; and that fives, also, was a
seemly game, so that those who played it never heated themselves.  Henry once quarrelled with
me for taking his sister Grizzel's part in a contest between them as to the best mode of using
a watering-pot for the garden flowers; and from that day to this he has not spoken to me, though
he speaks at me often enough.  For half an hour or so I certainly did like Sammy's gentle speeches;
but one gets tired of honey, and I found that he preferred the more admiring listeners whom
he met in the kitchen-garden and back precincts of the establishment; besides, I think I once
caught Sammy fibbing.

On the whole, therefore, I found the rectory a dull house, though it must be admitted that
everything there was of the very best.

After breakfast, on the morning of which we are writing, the archdeacon, as usual, retired
to his study, intimating that he was going to be very busy, but that he would see Mr Chadwick
if he called. On entering this sacred room he carefully opened the paper case on which he was
wont to compose his favourite sermons, and spread on it a fair sheet of paper and one partly
written on; he then placed his inkstand, looked at his pen, and folded his blotting paper;
having done so, he got up again from his seat, stood with his back to the fire-place, and yawned
comfortably, stretching out vastly his huge arms and opening his burly chest.  He then walked
across the room and locked the door; and having so prepared himself, he threw himself into
his easy-chair, took from a secret drawer beneath his table a volume of Rabelais, and began
to amuse himself with the witty mischief of Panurge; and so passed the archdeacon's morning
on that day.

He was left undisturbed at his studies for an hour or two, when a knock came to the door, and
Mr Chadwick was announced.  Rabelais retired into the secret drawer, the easy-chair seemed
knowingly to betake itself off, and when the archdeacon quickly undid his bolt, he was discovered
by the steward working, as usual, for that church of which he was so useful a pillar.  Mr Chadwick
had just come from London, and was, therefore, known to be the bearer of important news.

"We've got Sir Abraham's opinion at last," said Mr Chadwick, as he seated himself.

"Well, well, well!" exclaimed the archdeacon impatiently.

"Oh, it's as long as my arm," said the other; "it can't be told in a word, but you can read
it;" and he handed him a copy, in heaven knows how many spun-out folios, of the opinion which
the attorney-general had managed to cram on the back and sides of the case as originally submitted
to him.

"The upshot is," said Chadwick, "that there's a screw loose in their case, and we had better
do nothing.  They are proceeding against Mr Harding and myself, and Sir Abraham holds that,
under the wording of the will, and subsequent arrangements legally sanctioned, Mr Harding and
I are only paid servants.  The defendants should have been either the Corporation of Barchester,
or possibly the chapter of your father."

"W-hoo!" said the archdeacon; "so Master Bold is on the wrong scent, is he?"

"That's Sir Abraham's opinion; but any scent almost would be a wrong scent.  Sir Abraham thinks
that if they'd taken the corporation, or the chapter, we could have baffled them.  The bishop,
he thinks, would be the surest shot; but even there we could plead that the bishop is only
a visitor, and that he has never made himself a consenting party to the performance of other
duties."

"That's quite clear," said the archdeacon.

"Not quite so clear," said the other.  "You see the will says, 'My lord, the bishop, being
graciously pleased to see that due justice be done.'  Now, it may be a question whether, in
accepting and administering the patronage, your father has not accepted also the other duties
assigned.  It is doubtful, however; but even if they hit that nail,--and they are far off from
that yet,--the point is so nice, as Sir Abraham says, that you would force them into fifteen
thousand pounds' cost before they could bring it to an issue! and where's that sum of money
to come from?"

The archdeacon rubbed his hands with delight; he had never doubted the justice of his case,
but he had begun to have some dread of unjust success on the part of his enemies.  It was delightful
to him thus to hear that their cause was surrounded with such rocks and shoals; such causes
of shipwreck unseen by the landsman's eye, but visible enough to the keen eyes of practical
law mariners.  How wrong his wife was to wish that Bold should marry Eleanor!  Bold! why, if
he should be ass enough to persevere, he would be a beggar before he knew whom he was at law with!

"That's excellent, Chadwick;--that's excellent!  I told you Sir Abraham was the man for us;"
and he put down on the table the copy of the opinion, and patted it fondly.

"Don't you let that be seen, though, archdeacon."

"Who?--I!--not for worlds," said the doctor.

"People will talk, you know, archdeacon."

"Of course, of course," said the doctor.

"Because, if that gets abroad, it would teach them how to fight their own battle."

"Quite true," said the doctor.

"No one here in Barchester ought to see that but you and I, archdeacon."

"No, no, certainly no one else," said the archdeacon, pleased with the closeness of the confidence;
"no one else shall."

"Mrs Grantly is very interested in the matter, I know," said Mr Chadwick.

Did the archdeacon wink, or did he not?  I am inclined to think he did not quite wink; but
that without such, perhaps, unseemly gesture he communicated to Mr Chadwick, with the corner
of his eye, intimation that, deep as was Mrs Grantly's interest in the matter, it should not
procure for her a perusal of that document; and at the same time he partly opened the small
drawer, above spoken of, deposited the paper on the volume of Rabelais, and showed to Mr Chadwick
the nature of the key which guarded these hidden treasures.  The careful steward then expressed
himself contented.  Ah! vain man! he could fasten up his Rabelais, and other things secret,
with all the skill of Bramah or of Chubb; but where could he fasten up the key which solved
these mechanical mysteries?  It is probable to us that the contents of no drawer in that house
were unknown to its mistress, and we think, moreover, that she was entitled to all such knowledge.

"But," said Mr Chadwick, "we must, of course, tell your father and Mr Harding so much of Sir
Abraham's opinion as will satisfy them that the matter is doing well."

"Oh, certainly,--yes, of course," said the doctor.

"You had better let them know that Sir Abraham is of opinion that there is no case at any rate
against Mr Harding; and that as the action is worded at present, it must fall to the ground;
they must be nonsuited, if they carry it on; you had better tell Mr Harding, that Sir Abraham
is clearly of opinion that he is only a servant, and as such not liable;--or if you like it,
I'll see Mr Harding myself."

"Oh, I must see him to-morrow, and my father too, and I'll explain to them exactly so much;--you
won't go before lunch, Mr Chadwick: well, if you will, you must, for I know your time is precious;"
and he shook hands with the diocesan steward, and bowed him out.

The archdeacon had again recourse to his drawer, and twice read through the essence of Sir
Abraham Haphazard's law-enlightened and law-bewildered brains.  It was very clear that to Sir
Abraham, the justice of the old men's claim or the justice of Mr Harding's defence were ideas
that had never presented themselves.  A legal victory over an opposing party was the service
for which Sir Abraham was, as he imagined, to be paid; and that he, according to his lights,
had diligently laboured to achieve, and with probable hope of success. Of the intense desire
which Mr Harding felt to be assured on fit authority that he was wronging no man, that he was
entitled in true equity to his income, that he might sleep at night without pangs of conscience,
that he was no robber, no spoiler of the poor; that he and all the world might be openly convinced
that he was not the man which The Jupiter had described him to be; of such longings on the
part of Mr Harding, Sir Abraham was entirely ignorant; nor, indeed, could it be looked on as
part of his business to gratify such desires.  Such was not the system on which his battles
were fought, and victories gained.  Success was his object, and he was generally successful.
He conquered his enemies by their weakness rather than by his own strength, and it had been
found almost impossible to make up a case in which Sir Abraham, as an antagonist, would not
find a flaw.

The archdeacon was delighted with the closeness of the reasoning.  To do him justice, it was
not a selfish triumph that he desired; he would personally lose nothing by defeat, or at least
what he might lose did not actuate him; but neither was it love of justice which made him so
anxious, nor even mainly solicitude for his father-in-law.  He was fighting a part of a never-ending
battle against a never-conquered foe--that of the church against its enemies.

He knew Mr Harding could not pay all the expense of these doings: for these long opinions of
Sir Abraham's, these causes to be pleaded, these speeches to be made, these various courts
through which the case was, he presumed, to be dragged.  He knew that he and his father must
at least bear the heavier portion of this tremendous cost; but to do the archdeacon justice,
he did not recoil from this.  He was a man fond of obtaining money, greedy of a large income,
but open-handed enough in expending it, and it was a triumph to him to foresee the success
of this measure, although he might be called on to pay so dearly for it himself.

Chapter IX

THE CONFERENCE

On the following morning the archdeacon was with his father betimes, and a note was sent down
to the warden begging his attendance at the palace.  Dr Grantly, as he cogitated on the matter,
leaning back in his brougham as he journeyed into Barchester, felt that it would be difficult
to communicate his own satisfaction either to his father or his father-in-law.  He wanted success
on his own side and discomfiture on that of his enemies.  The bishop wanted peace on the subject;
a settled peace if possible, but peace at any rate till the short remainder of his own days
had spun itself out.  Mr Harding required not only success and peace, but he also demanded
that he might stand justified before the world.

The bishop, however, was comparatively easy to deal with; and before the arrival of the other,
the dutiful son had persuaded his father that all was going on well, and then the warden arrived.

It was Mr Harding's wont, whenever he spent a morning at the palace, to seat himself immediately
at the bishop's elbow, the bishop occupying a huge arm-chair fitted up with candle-sticks,
a reading table, a drawer, and other paraphernalia, the position of which chair was never moved,
summer or winter; and when, as was usual, the archdeacon was there also, he confronted the
two elders, who thus were enabled to fight the battle against him together;--and together submit
to defeat, for such was their constant fate.

Our warden now took his accustomed place, having greeted his son-in-law as he entered, and
then affectionately inquired after his friend's health.  There was a gentleness about the bishop
to which the soft womanly affection of Mr Harding particularly endeared itself, and it was
quaint to see how the two mild old priests pressed each other's hand, and smiled and made little
signs of love.

"Sir Abraham's opinion has come at last," began the archdeacon.  Mr Harding had heard so much,
and was most anxious to know the result.

"It is quite favourable," said the bishop, pressing his friend's arm. "I am so glad."

Mr Harding looked at the mighty bearer of the important news for confirmation of these glad
tidings.

"Yes," said the archdeacon; "Sir Abraham has given most minute attention to the case; indeed,
I knew he would;--most minute attention; and his opinion is,--and as to his opinion on such
a subject being correct, no one who knows Sir Abraham's character can doubt,--his opinion is,
that they hav'n't got a leg to stand on."

"But as how, archdeacon?"

"Why, in the first place:--but you're no lawyer, warden, and I doubt you won't understand it;
the gist of the matter is this:--under Hiram's will two paid guardians have been selected for
the hospital; the law will say two paid servants, and you and I won't quarrel with the name."

"At any rate I will not if I am one of the servants," said Mr Harding. "A rose, you know--"

"Yes, yes," said the archdeacon, impatient of poetry at such a time. "Well, two paid servants,
we'll say; one to look after the men, and the other to look after the money.  You and Chadwick
are these two servants, and whether either of you be paid too much, or too little, more or
less in fact than the founder willed, it's as clear as daylight that no one can fall foul of
either of you for receiving an allotted stipend."

"That does seem clear," said the bishop, who had winced visibly at the words servants and stipend,
which, however, appeared to have caused no uneasiness to the archdeacon.

"Quite clear," said he, "and very satisfactory.  In point of fact, it being necessary to select
such servants for the use of the hospital, the pay to be given to them must depend on the rate
of pay for such services, according to their market value at the period in question; and those
who manage the hospital must be the only judges of this."

"And who does manage the hospital?" asked the warden.  "Oh, let them find that out; that's
another question: the action is brought against you and Chadwick; that's your defence, and
a perfect and full defence it is.  Now that I think very satisfactory."

"Well," said the bishop, looking inquiringly up into his friend's face, who sat silent awhile,
and apparently not so well satisfied.

"And conclusive," continued the archdeacon; "if they press it to a jury, which they won't do,
no twelve men in England will take five minutes to decide against them."

"But according to that" said Mr Harding, "I might as well have sixteen hundred a year as eight,
if the managers choose to allot it to me; and as I am one of the managers, if not the chief
manager, myself, that can hardly be a just arrangement."

"Oh, well; all that's nothing to the question.  The question is, whether this intruding fellow,
and a lot of cheating attorneys and pestilent dissenters, are to interfere with an arrangement
which everyone knows is essentially just and serviceable to the church. Pray don't let us be
splitting hairs, and that amongst ourselves, or there'll never be an end of the cause or the cost."

Mr Harding again sat silent for a while, during which the bishop once and again pressed his
arm, and looked in his face to see if he could catch a gleam of a contented and eased mind;
but there was no such gleam, and the poor warden continued playing sad dirges on invisible
stringed instruments in all manner of positions; he was ruminating in his mind on this opinion
of Sir Abraham, looking to it wearily and earnestly for satisfaction, but finding none.  At
last he said, "Did you see the opinion, archdeacon?"

The archdeacon said he had not,--that was to say, he had,--that was, he had not seen the opinion
itself; he had seen what had been called a copy, but he could not say whether of a whole or
part; nor could he say that what he had seen were the ipsissima verba of the great man himself;
but what he had seen contained exactly the decision which he had announced, and which he again
declared to be to his mind extremely satisfactory.

"I should like to see the opinion," said the warden; "that is, a copy of it."

"Well, I suppose you can if you make a point of it; but I don't see the use myself; of course
it is essential that the purport of it should not be known, and it is therefore unadvisable
to multiply copies."

"Why should it not be known?" asked the warden.

"What a question for a man to ask!" said the archdeacon, throwing up his hands in token of
his surprise; "but it is like you:--a child is not more innocent than you are in matters of
business.  Can't you see that if we tell them that no action will lie against you, but that
one may possibly lie against some other person or persons, that we shall be putting weapons
into their hands, and be teaching them how to cut our own throats?"

The warden again sat silent, and the bishop again looked at him wistfully.  "The only thing
we have now to do," continued the archdeacon, "is to remain quiet, hold our peace, and let
them play their own game as they please."

"We are not to make known then," said the warden, "that we have consulted the attorney-general,
and that we are advised by him that the founder's will is fully and fairly carried out."

"God bless my soul!" said the archdeacon, "how odd it is that you will not see that all we
are to do is to do nothing: why should we say anything about the founder's will?  We are in
possession; and we know that they are not in a position to put us out; surely that is enough
for the present."

Mr Harding rose from his seat and paced thoughtfully up and down the library, the bishop the
while watching him painfully at every turn, and the archdeacon continuing to pour forth his
convictions that the affair was in a state to satisfy any prudent mind.

"And The Jupiter?" said the warden, stopping suddenly.

"Oh! The Jupiter," answered the other.  "The Jupiter can break no bones.  You must bear with
that; there is much, of course, which it is our bounden duty to bear; it cannot be all roses
for us here," and the archdeacon looked exceedingly moral; "besides, the matter is too trivial,
of too little general interest to be mentioned again in The Jupiter, unless we stir up the
subject."  And the archdeacon again looked exceedingly knowing and worldly wise.

The warden continued his walk; the hard and stinging words of that newspaper article, each
one of which had thrust a thorn as it were into his inmost soul, were fresh in his memory;
he had read it more than once, word by word, and what was worse, he fancied it was as well
known to everyone as to himself.  Was he to be looked on as the unjust griping priest he had
been there described?  Was he to be pointed at as the consumer of the bread of the poor, and
to be allowed no means of refuting such charges, of clearing his begrimed name, of standing
innocent in the world, as hitherto he had stood?  Was he to bear all this, to receive as usual
his now hated income, and be known as one of those greedy priests who by their rapacity have
brought disgrace on their church?  And why?  Why should he bear all this?  Why should he die,
for he felt that he could not live, under such a weight of obloquy?  As he paced up and down
the room he resolved in his misery and enthusiasm that he could with pleasure, if he were allowed,
give up his place, abandon his pleasant home, leave the hospital, and live poorly, happily,
and with an unsullied name, on the small remainder of his means.

He was a man somewhat shy of speaking of himself, even before those who knew him best, and
whom he loved the most; but at last it burst forth from him, and with a somewhat jerking eloquence
he declared that he could not, would not, bear this misery any longer.

"If it can be proved," said he at last, "that I have a just and honest right to this, as God
well knows I always deemed I had; if this salary or stipend be really my due, I am not less
anxious than another to retain it.  I have the well-being of my child to look to.  I am too
old to miss without some pain the comforts to which I have been used; and I am, as others are,
anxious to prove to the world that I have been right, and to uphold the place I have held;
but I cannot do it at such a cost as this.  I cannot bear this.  Could you tell me to do so?"
And he appealed, almost in tears, to the bishop, who had left his chair, and was now leaning
on the warden's arm as he stood on the further side of the table facing the archdeacon.  "Could
you tell me to sit there at ease, indifferent, and satisfied, while such things as these are
said loudly of me in the world?"

The bishop could feel for him and sympathise with him, but he could not advise him; he could
only say, "No, no, you shall be asked to do nothing that is painful; you shall do just what
your heart tells you to be right; you shall do whatever you think best yourself. Theophilus,
don't advise him, pray don't advise the warden to do anything which is painful."

But the archdeacon, though he could not sympathise, could advise; and he saw that the time
had come when it behoved him to do so in a somewhat peremptory manner.

"Why, my lord," he said, speaking to his father;--and when he called his father "my lord,"
the good old bishop shook in his shoes, for he knew that an evil time was coming.  "Why, my
lord, there are two ways of giving advice: there is advice that may be good for the present
day; and there is advice that may be good for days to come: now I cannot bring myself to give
the former, if it be incompatible with the other."

"No, no, no, I suppose not," said the bishop, re-seating himself, and shading his face with
his hands.  Mr Harding sat down with his back to the further wall, playing to himself some
air fitted for so calamitous an occasion, and the archdeacon said out his say standing, with
his back to the empty fire-place.

"It is not to be supposed but that much pain will spring out of this unnecessarily raised question.
We must all have foreseen that, and the matter has in no wise gone on worse than we expected;
but it will be weak, yes, and wicked also, to abandon the cause and own ourselves wrong, because
the inquiry is painful.  It is not only ourselves we have to look to; to a certain extent the
interest of the church is in our keeping.  Should it be found that one after another of those
who hold preferment abandoned it whenever it might be attacked, is it not plain that such attacks
would be renewed till nothing was left us? and, that if so deserted, the Church of England
must fall to the ground altogether?  If this be true of many, it is true of one. Were you,
accused as you now are, to throw up the wardenship, and to relinquish the preferment which
is your property, with the vain object of proving yourself disinterested, you would fail in
that object, you would inflict a desperate blow on your brother clergymen, you would encourage
every cantankerous dissenter in England to make a similar charge against some source of clerical
revenue, and you would do your best to dishearten those who are most anxious to defend you
and uphold your position.  I can fancy nothing more weak, or more wrong.  It is not that you
think that there is any justice in these charges, or that you doubt your own right to the wardenship:
you are convinced of your own honesty, and yet would yield to them through cowardice."

"Cowardice!" said the bishop, expostulating.  Mr Harding sat unmoved, gazing on his son-in-law.

"Well; would it not be cowardice?  Would he not do so because he is afraid to endure the evil
things which will be falsely spoken of him? Would that not be cowardice?  And now let us see
the extent of the evil which you dread.  The Jupiter publishes an article which a great many,
no doubt, will read; but of those who understand the subject how many will believe The Jupiter?
Everyone knows what its object is: it has taken up the case against Lord Guildford and against
the Dean of Rochester, and that against half a dozen bishops; and does not everyone know that
it would take up any case of the kind, right or wrong, false or true, with known justice or
known injustice, if by doing so it could further its own views?  Does not all the world know
this of The Jupiter?  Who that really knows you will think the worse of you for what The Jupiter
says?  And why care for those who do not know you?  I will say nothing of your own comfort,
but I do say that you could not be justified in throwing up, in a fit of passion, for such
it would be, the only maintenance that Eleanor has; and if you did so, if you really did vacate
the wardenship, and submit to ruin, what would that profit you?  If you have no future right
to the income, you have had no past right to it; and the very fact of your abandoning your
position would create a demand for repayment of that which you have already received and spent."

The poor warden groaned as he sat perfectly still, looking up at the hard-hearted orator who
thus tormented him, and the bishop echoed the sound faintly from behind his hands; but the
archdeacon cared little for such signs of weakness, and completed his exhortation.

"But let us suppose the office to be left vacant, and that your own troubles concerning it
were over; would that satisfy you?  Are your only aspirations in the matter confined to yourself
and family?  I know they are not.  I know you are as anxious as any of us for the church to
which we belong; and what a grievous blow would such an act of apostasy give her!  You owe
it to the church of which you are a member and a minister, to bear with this affliction, however
severe it may be: you owe it to my father, who instituted you, to support his rights: you owe
it to those who preceded you to assert the legality of their position; you owe it to those
who are to come after you, to maintain uninjured for them that which you received uninjured
from others; and you owe to us all the unflinching assistance of perfect brotherhood in this
matter, so that upholding one another we may support our great cause without blushing and without
disgrace."

And so the archdeacon ceased, and stood self-satisfied, watching the effect of his spoken wisdom.

The warden felt himself, to a certain extent, stifled; he would have given the world to get
himself out into the open air without speaking to, or noticing those who were in the room with
him; but this was impossible.  He could not leave without saying something, and he felt himself
confounded by the archdeacon's eloquence.  There was a heavy, unfeeling, unanswerable truth
in what he had said; there was so much practical, but odious common sense in it, that he neither
knew how to assent or to differ.  If it were necessary for him to suffer, he felt that he could
endure without complaint and without cowardice, providing that he was self-satisfied of the
justice of his own cause. What he could not endure was, that he should be accused by others,
and not acquitted by himself.  Doubting, as he had begun to doubt, the justice of his own position
in the hospital, he knew that his own self-confidence would not be restored because Mr Bold
had been in error as to some legal form; nor could he be satisfied to escape, because, through
some legal fiction, he who received the greatest benefit from the hospital might be considered
only as one of its servants.

The archdeacon's speech had silenced him,--stupefied him,--annihilated him; anything but satisfied
him.  With the bishop it fared not much better.  He did not discern clearly how things were,
but he saw enough to know that a battle was to be prepared for; a battle that would destroy
his few remaining comforts, and bring him with sorrow to the grave.

The warden still sat, and still looked at the archdeacon, till his thoughts fixed themselves
wholly on the means of escape from his present position, and he felt like a bird fascinated
by gazing on a snake.

"I hope you agree with me," said the archdeacon at last, breaking the dread silence; "my lord,
I hope you agree with me."

Oh, what a sigh the bishop gave!  "My lord, I hope you agree with me," again repeated the merciless
tyrant.

"Yes, I suppose so," groaned the poor old man, slowly.

"And you, warden?"

Mr Harding was now stirred to action;--he must speak and move, so he got up and took one turn
before he answered.

"Do not press me for an answer just at present; I will do nothing lightly in the matter, and
of whatever I do I will give you and the bishop notice."  And so without another word he took
his leave, escaping quickly through the palace hall, and down the lofty steps; nor did he breathe
freely till he found himself alone under the huge elms of the silent close.  Here he walked
long and slowly, thinking on his case with a troubled air, and trying in vain to confute the
archdeacon's argument.  He then went home, resolved to bear it all,--ignominy, suspense, disgrace,
self-doubt, and heart-burning,-- and to do as those would have him, who he still believed were
most fit and most able to counsel him aright.

Chapter X

TRIBULATION

Mr Harding was a sadder man than he had ever yet been when he returned to his own house.  He
had been wretched enough on that well-remembered morning when he was forced to expose before
his son-in-law the publisher's account for ushering into the world his dear book of sacred
music: when after making such payments as he could do unassisted, he found that he was a debtor
of more than three hundred pounds; but his sufferings then were as nothing to his present misery;--then
he had done wrong, and he knew it, and was able to resolve that he would not sin in like manner
again; but now he could make no resolution, and comfort himself by no promises of firmness.
He had been forced to think that his lot had placed him in a false position, and he was about
to maintain that position against the opinion of the world and against his own convictions.

He had read with pity, amounting almost to horror, the strictures which had appeared from time
to time against the Earl of Guildford as master of St Cross, and the invectives that had been
heaped on rich diocesan dignitaries and overgrown sinecure pluralists.  In judging of them,
he judged leniently; the whole bias of his profession had taught him to think that they were
more sinned against than sinning, and that the animosity with which they had been pursued was
venomous and unjust; but he had not the less regarded their plight as most miserable.  His
hair had stood on end and his flesh had crept as he read the things which had been written;
he had wondered how men could live under such a load of disgrace; how they could face their
fellow-creatures while their names were bandied about so injuriously and so publicly;--and
now this lot was to be his,--he, that shy, retiring man, who had so comforted himself in the
hidden obscurity of his lot, who had so enjoyed the unassuming warmth of his own little corner,--he
was now dragged forth into the glaring day, and gibbeted before ferocious multitudes.  He entered
his own house a crestfallen, humiliated man, without a hope of overcoming the wretchedness
which affected him.

He wandered into the drawing-room where was his daughter; but he could not speak to her now,
so he left it, and went into the book-room. He was not quick enough to escape Eleanor's glance,
or to prevent her from seeing that he was disturbed; and in a little while she followed him.
She found him seated in his accustomed chair with no book open before him, no pen ready in
his hand, no ill-shapen notes of blotted music lying before him as was usual, none of those
hospital accounts with which he was so precise and yet so unmethodical: he was doing nothing,
thinking of nothing, looking at nothing; he was merely suffering.

"Leave me, Eleanor, my dear," he said; "leave me, my darling, for a few minutes, for I am busy."

Eleanor saw well how it was, but she did leave him, and glided silently back to her drawing-room.
When he had sat a while, thus alone and unoccupied, he got up to walk again;--he could make
more of his thoughts walking than sitting, and was creeping out into his garden, when he met
Bunce on the threshold.

"Well, Bunce," said he, in a tone that for him was sharp, "what is it? do you want me?"

"I was only coming to ask after your reverence," said the old bedesman, touching his hat; "and
to inquire about the news from London," he added after a pause.

The warden winced, and put his hand to his forehead and felt bewildered.

"Attorney Finney has been there this morning," continued Bunce, "and by his looks I guess he
is not so well pleased as he once was, and it has got abroad somehow that the archdeacon has
had down great news from London, and Handy and Moody are both as black as devils.  And I hope,"
said the man, trying to assume a cheery tone, "that things are looking up, and that there'll
be an end soon to all this stuff which bothers your reverence so sorely."

"Well, I wish there may be, Bunce."

"But about the news, your reverence?" said the old man, almost whispering.

Mr Harding walked on, and shook his head impatiently.  Poor Bunce little knew how he was tormenting
his patron.

"If there was anything to cheer you, I should be so glad to know it," said he, with a tone
of affection which the warden in all his misery could not resist.

He stopped, and took both the old man's hands in his.  "My friend," said he, "my dear old friend,
there is nothing; there is no news to cheer me;--God's will be done": and two small hot tears
broke away from his eyes and stole down his furrowed cheeks.

"Then God's will be done," said the other solemnly; "but they told me that there was good news
from London, and I came to wish your reverence joy; but God's will be done;" and so the warden
again walked on, and the bedesman, looking wistfully after him and receiving no encouragement
to follow, returned sadly to his own abode.

For a couple of hours the warden remained thus in the garden, now walking, now standing motionless
on the turf, and then, as his legs got weary, sitting unconsciously on the garden seats, and
then walking again.  And Eleanor, hidden behind the muslin curtains of the window, watched
him through the trees as he now came in sight, and then again was concealed by the turnings
of the walk; and thus the time passed away till five, when the warden crept back to the house
and prepared for dinner.

It was but a sorry meal.  The demure parlour-maid, as she handed the dishes and changed the
plates, saw that all was not right, and was more demure than ever: neither father nor daughter
could eat, and the hateful food was soon cleared away, and the bottle of port placed upon the
table.

"Would you like Bunce to come in, papa?" said Eleanor, thinking that the company of the old
man might lighten his sorrow.

"No, my dear, thank you, not to-day; but are not you going out, Eleanor, this lovely afternoon?
don't stay in for me, my dear."

"I thought you seemed so sad, papa."

"Sad," said he, irritated; "well, people must all have their share of sadness here; I am not
more exempt than another: but kiss me, dearest, and go now; I will, if possible, be more sociable
when you return."

And Eleanor was again banished from her father's sorrow.  Ah! her desire now was not to find
him happy, but to be allowed to share his sorrows; not to force him to be sociable, but to
persuade him to be trustful.

She put on her bonnet as desired, and went up to Mary Bold; this was now her daily haunt, for
John Bold was up in London among lawyers and church reformers, diving deep into other questions
than that of the wardenship of Barchester; supplying information to one member of Parliament,
and dining with another; subscribing to funds for the abolition of clerical incomes, and seconding
at that great national meeting at the Crown and Anchor a resolution to the effect, that no
clergyman of the Church of England, be he who he might, should have more than a thousand a
year, and none less than two hundred and fifty. His speech on this occasion was short, for
fifteen had to speak, and the room was hired for two hours only, at the expiration of which
the Quakers and Mr Cobden were to make use of it for an appeal to the public in aid of the
Emperor of Russia; but it was sharp and effective; at least he was told so by a companion with
whom he now lived much, and on whom he greatly depended,--one Tom Towers, a very leading genius,
and supposed to have high employment on the staff of The Jupiter.

So Eleanor, as was now her wont, went up to Mary Bold, and Mary listened kindly, while the
daughter spoke much of her father, and, perhaps kinder still, found a listener in Eleanor,
while she spoke about her brother.  In the meantime the warden sat alone, leaning on the arm
of his chair; he had poured out a glass of wine, but had done so merely from habit, for he
left it untouched; there he sat gazing at the open window, and thinking, if he can be said
to have thought, of the happiness of his past life.  All manner of past delights came before
his mind, which at the time he had enjoyed without considering them; his easy days, his absence
of all kind of hard work, his pleasant shady home, those twelve old neighbours whose welfare
till now had been the source of so much pleasant care, the excellence of his children, the
friendship of the dear old bishop, the solemn grandeur of those vaulted aisles, through which
he loved to hear his own voice pealing; and then that friend of friends, that choice ally that
had never deserted him, that eloquent companion that would always, when asked, discourse such
pleasant music, that violoncello of his;--ah, how happy he had been! but it was over now; his
easy days and absence of work had been the crime which brought on him his tribulation; his
shady home was pleasant no longer; maybe it was no longer his; the old neighbours, whose welfare
had been so desired by him, were his enemies; his daughter was as wretched as himself; and
even the bishop was made miserable by his position.  He could never again lift up his voice
boldly as he had hitherto done among his brethren, for he felt that he was disgraced; and he
feared even to touch his bow, for he knew how grievous a sound of wailing, how piteous a lamentation,
it would produce.

He was still sitting in the same chair and the same posture, having hardly moved a limb for
two hours, when Eleanor came back to tea, and succeeded in bringing him with her into the drawing-room.

The tea seemed as comfortless as the dinner, though the warden, who had hitherto eaten nothing
all day, devoured the plateful of bread and butter, unconscious of what he was doing.

Eleanor had made up her mind to force him to talk to her, but she hardly knew how to commence:
she must wait till the urn was gone, till the servant would no longer be coming in and out.

At last everything was gone, and the drawing-room door was permanently closed; then Eleanor,
getting up and going round to her father, put her arm round his neck, and said, "Papa, won't
you tell me what it is?"

"What what is, my dear?"

"This new sorrow that torments you; I know you are unhappy, papa."

"New sorrow! it's no new sorrow, my dear; we have all our cares sometimes;" and he tried to
smile, but it was a ghastly failure; "but I shouldn't be so dull a companion; come, we'll have
some music."

"No, papa, not tonight,--it would only trouble you tonight;" and she sat upon his knee, as
she sometimes would in their gayest moods, and with her arm round his neck, she said: "Papa,
I will not leave you till you talk to me; oh, if you only knew how much good it would do to
you, to tell me of it all."

The father kissed his daughter, and pressed her to his heart; but still he said nothing: it
was so hard to him to speak of his own sorrows; he was so shy a man even with his own child!

"Oh, papa, do tell me what it is; I know it is about the hospital, and what they are doing
up in London, and what that cruel newspaper has said; but if there be such cause for sorrow,
let us be sorrowful together; we are all in all to each other now: dear, dear papa, do speak
to me."

Mr Harding could not well speak now, for the warm tears were running down his cheeks like rain
in May, but he held his child close to his heart, and squeezed her hand as a lover might, and
she kissed his forehead and his wet cheeks, and lay upon his bosom, and comforted him as a
woman only can do.

"My own child," he said, as soon as his tears would let him speak, "my own, own child, why
should you too be unhappy before it is necessary? It may come to that, that we must leave this
place, but till that time comes, why should your young days be clouded?"

"And is that all, papa?  If that be all, let us leave it, and have light hearts elsewhere:
if that be all, let us go.  Oh, papa, you and I could be happy if we had only bread to eat,
so long as our hearts were light."

And Eleanor's face was lighted up with enthusiasm as she told her father how he might banish
all his care; and a gleam of joy shot across his brow as this idea of escape again presented
itself, and he again fancied for a moment that he could spurn away from him the income which
the world envied him; that he could give the lie to that wielder of the tomahawk who had dared
to write such things of him in The Jupiter; that he could leave Sir Abraham, and the archdeacon,
and Bold, and the rest of them with their lawsuit among them, and wipe his hands altogether
of so sorrow-stirring a concern.  Ah, what happiness might there be in the distance, with Eleanor
and him in some small cottage, and nothing left of their former grandeur but their music! 
Yes, they would walk forth with their music books, and their instruments, and shaking the dust
from off their feet as they went, leave the ungrateful place. Never did a poor clergyman sigh
for a warm benefice more anxiously than our warden did now to be rid of his.

"Give it up, papa," she said again, jumping from his knees and standing on her feet before
him, looking boldly into his face; "give it up, papa."

Oh, it was sad to see how that momentary gleam of joy passed away; how the look of hope was
dispersed from that sorrowful face, as the remembrance of the archdeacon came back upon our
poor warden, and he reflected that he could not stir from his now hated post.  He was as a
man bound with iron, fettered with adamant: he was in no respect a free agent; he had no choice.
"Give it up!"  Oh if he only could: what an easy way that were out of all his troubles!

"Papa, don't doubt about it," she continued, thinking that his hesitation arose from his unwillingness
to abandon so comfortable a home; "is it on my account that you would stay here?  Do you think
that I cannot be happy without a pony-carriage and a fine drawing-room?  Papa, I never can
be happy here, as long as there is a question as to your honour in staying here; but I could
be gay as the day is long in the smallest tiny little cottage, if I could see you come in and
go out with a light heart.  Oh! papa, your face tells so much; though you won't speak to me
with your voice, I know how it is with you every time I look at you."

How he pressed her to his heart again with almost a spasmodic pressure!  How he kissed her
as the tears fell like rain from his old eyes!  How he blessed her, and called her by a hundred
soft sweet names which now came new to his lips!  How he chid himself for ever having been
unhappy with such a treasure in his house, such a jewel on his bosom, with so sweet a flower
in the choice garden of his heart! And then the floodgates of his tongue were loosed, and,
at length, with unsparing detail of circumstances, he told her all that he wished, and all
that he could not do.  He repeated those arguments of the archdeacon, not agreeing in their
truth, but explaining his inability to escape from them;--how it had been declared to him that
he was bound to remain where he was by the interests of his order, by gratitude to the bishop,
by the wishes of his friends, by a sense of duty, which, though he could not understand it,
he was fain to acknowledge.  He told her how he had been accused of cowardice, and though he
was not a man to make much of such a charge before the world, now in the full candour of his
heart he explained to her that such an accusation was grievous to him; that he did think it
would be unmanly to desert his post, merely to escape his present sufferings, and that, therefore,
he must bear as best he might the misery which was prepared for him.

And did she find these details tedious?  Oh, no; she encouraged him to dilate on every feeling
he expressed, till he laid bare the inmost corners of his heart to her.  They spoke together
of the archdeacon, as two children might of a stern, unpopular, but still respected schoolmaster,
and of the bishop as a parent kind as kind could be, but powerless against an omnipotent pedagogue.

And then when they had discussed all this, when the father had told all to the child, she could
not be less confiding than he had been; and as John Bold's name was mentioned between them,
she owned how well she had learned to love him,--"had loved him once," she said, "but she would
not, could not do so now--no, even had her troth been plighted to him, she would have taken
it back again;--had she sworn to love him as his wife, she would have discarded him, and not
felt herself forsworn, when he proved himself the enemy of her father."

But the warden declared that Bold was no enemy of his, and encouraged her love; and gently
rebuked, as he kissed her, the stern resolve she had made to cast him off; and then he spoke
to her of happier days when their trials would all be over; and declared that her young heart
should not be torn asunder to please either priest or prelate, dean or archdeacon.  No, not
if all Oxford were to convocate together, and agree as to the necessity of the sacrifice.

And so they greatly comforted each other;--and in what sorrow will not such mutual confidence
give consolation!--and with a last expression of tender love they parted, and went comparatively
happy to their rooms.

Chapter XI

IPHIGENIA

When Eleanor laid her head on her pillow that night, her mind was anxiously intent on some
plan by which she might extricate her father from his misery; and, in her warm-hearted enthusiasm,
self-sacrifice was decided on as the means to be adopted.  Was not so good an Agamemnon worthy
of an Iphigenia?  She would herself personally implore John Bold to desist from his undertaking;
she would explain to him her father's sorrows, the cruel misery of his position; she would
tell him how her father would die if he were thus dragged before the public and exposed to
such unmerited ignominy; she would appeal to his old friendship, to his generosity, to his
manliness, to his mercy; if need were, she would kneel to him for the favour she would ask;
but before she did this the idea of love must be banished.  There must be no bargain in the
matter.  To his mercy, to his generosity, she could appeal; but as a pure maiden, hitherto
even unsolicited, she could not appeal to his love, nor under such circumstances could she
allow him to do so.  Of course, when so provoked he would declare his passion; that was to
be expected; there had been enough between them to make such a fact sure; but it was equally
certain that he must be rejected. She could not be understood as saying, Make my father free
and I am the reward.  There would be no sacrifice in that;--not so had Jephthah's daughter
saved her father;--not so could she show to that kindest, dearest of parents how much she was
able to bear for his good.  No; to one resolve must her whole soul be bound; and so resolving,
she felt that she could make her great request to Bold with as much self-assured confidence
as she could have done to his grandfather.

And now I own I have fears for my heroine; not as to the upshot of her mission,--not in the
least as to that; as to the full success of her generous scheme, and the ultimate result of
such a project, no one conversant with human nature and novels can have a doubt; but as to
the amount of sympathy she may receive from those of her own sex. Girls below twenty and old
ladies above sixty will do her justice; for in the female heart the soft springs of sweet romance
reopen after many years, and again gush out with waters pure as in earlier days, and greatly
refresh the path that leads downwards to the grave. But I fear that the majority of those between
these two eras will not approve of Eleanor's plan.  I fear that unmarried ladies of thirty-five
will declare that there can be no probability of so absurd a project being carried through;
that young women on their knees before their lovers are sure to get kissed, and that they would
not put themselves in such a position did they not expect it; that Eleanor is going to Bold
only because circumstances prevent Bold from coming to her; that she is certainly a little
fool, or a little schemer, but that in all probability she is thinking a good deal more about
herself than her father.

Dear ladies, you are right as to your appreciation of the circumstances, but very wrong as
to Miss Harding's character.  Miss Harding was much younger than you are, and could not, therefore,
know, as you may do, to what dangers such an encounter might expose her. She may get kissed;
I think it very probable that she will; but I give my solemn word and positive assurance, that
the remotest idea of such a catastrophe never occurred to her as she made the great resolve
now alluded to.

And then she slept; and then she rose refreshed; and met her father with her kindest embrace
and most loving smiles; and on the whole their breakfast was by no means so triste as had been
their dinner the day before; and then, making some excuse to her father for so soon leaving
him, she started on the commencement of her operations.

She knew that John Bold was in London, and that, therefore, the scene itself could not be enacted
to-day; but she also knew that he was soon to be home, probably on the next day, and it was
necessary that some little plan for meeting him should be concerted with his sister Mary. When
she got up to the house, she went, as usual, into the morning sitting-room, and was startled
by perceiving, by a stick, a greatcoat, and sundry parcels which were lying about, that Bold
must already have returned.

"John has come back so suddenly," said Mary, coming into the room; "he has been travelling
all night."

"Then I'll come up again some other time," said Eleanor, about to beat a retreat in her sudden
dismay.

"He's out now, and will be for the next two hours," said the other; "he's with that horrid
Finney; he only came to see him, and he returns by the mail train tonight."

Returns by the mail train tonight, thought Eleanor to herself, as she strove to screw up her
courage;--away again tonight;--then it must be now or never; and she again sat down, having
risen to go.

She wished the ordeal could have been postponed: she had fully made up her mind to do the deed,
but she had not made up her mind to do it this very day; and now she felt ill at ease, astray,
and in difficulty.

"Mary," she began, "I must see your brother before he goes back."

"Oh yes, of course," said the other; "I know he'll be delighted to see you;" and she tried
to treat it as a matter of course, but she was not the less surprised; for Mary and Eleanor
had daily talked over John Bold and his conduct, and his love, and Mary would insist on calling
Eleanor her sister, and would scold her for not calling Bold by his Christian name; and Eleanor
would half confess her love, but like a modest maiden would protest against such familiarities
even with the name of her lover; and so they talked hour after hour, and Mary Bold, who was
much the elder, looked forward with happy confidence to the day when Eleanor would not be ashamed
to call her her sister.  She was, however, fully sure that just at present Eleanor would be
much more likely to avoid her brother than to seek him.

"Mary, I must see your brother, now, to-day, and beg from him a great favour;" and she spoke
with a solemn air, not at all usual to her; and then she went on, and opened to her friend
all her plan, her well-weighed scheme for saving her father from a sorrow which would, she
said, if it lasted, bring him to his grave.  "But, Mary," she continued, "you must now, you
know, cease any joking about me and Mr Bold; you must now say no more about that; I am not
ashamed to beg this favour from your brother, but when I have done so, there can never be anything
further between us;" and this she said with a staid and solemn air, quite worthy of Jephthah's
daughter or of Iphigenia either.

It was quite clear that Mary Bold did not follow the argument.  That Eleanor Harding should
appeal, on behalf of her father, to Bold's better feelings seemed to Mary quite natural; it
seemed quite natural that he should relent, overcome by such filial tears, and by so much beauty;
but, to her thinking, it was at any rate equally natural, that having relented, John should
put his arm round his mistress's waist, and say: "Now having settled that, let us be man and
wife, and all will end happily!"  Why his good nature should not be rewarded, when such reward
would operate to the disadvantage of none, Mary, who had more sense than romance, could not
understand; and she said as much.

Eleanor, however, was firm, and made quite an eloquent speech to support her own view of the
question: she could not condescend, she said, to ask such a favour on any other terms than
those proposed. Mary might, perhaps, think her high-flown, but she had her own ideas, and she
could not submit to sacrifice her self-respect.

"But I am sure you love him;--don't you?" pleaded Mary; "and I am sure he loves you better
than anything in the world."

Eleanor was going to make another speech, but a tear came to each eye, and she could not; so
she pretended to blow her nose, and walked to the window, and made a little inward call on
her own courage, and finding herself somewhat sustained, said sententiously: "Mary, this is
nonsense."

"But you do love him," said Mary, who had followed her friend to the window, and now spoke
with her arms close wound round the other's waist.  "You do love him with all your heart,--you
know you do; I defy you to deny it."

"I--" commenced Eleanor, turning sharply round to refute the charge; but the intended falsehood
stuck in her throat, and never came to utterance.  She could not deny her love, so she took
plentifully to tears, and leant upon her friend's bosom and sobbed there, and protested that,
love or no love, it would make no difference in her resolve, and called Mary, a thousand times,
the most cruel of girls, and swore her to secrecy by a hundred oaths, and ended by declaring
that the girl who could betray her friend's love, even to a brother, would be as black a traitor
as a soldier in a garrison who should open the city gates to the enemy.  While they were yet
discussing the matter, Bold returned, and Eleanor was forced into sudden action: she had either
to accomplish or abandon her plan; and having slipped into her friend's bedroom, as the gentleman
closed the hall door, she washed the marks of tears from her eyes, and resolved within herself
to go through with it.  "Tell him I am here," said she, "and coming in; and mind, whatever
you do, don't leave us."  So Mary informed her brother, with a somewhat sombre air, that Miss
Harding was in the next room, and was coming to speak to him.

Eleanor was certainly thinking more of her father than herself, as she arranged her hair before
the glass, and removed the traces of sorrow from her face; and yet I should be untrue if I
said that she was not anxious to appear well before her lover: why else was she so sedulous
with that stubborn curl that would rebel against her hand, and smooth so eagerly her ruffled
ribands? why else did she damp her eyes to dispel the redness, and bite her pretty lips to
bring back the colour? Of course she was anxious to look her best, for she was but a mortal
angel after all.  But had she been immortal, had she flitted back to the sitting-room on a
cherub's wings, she could not have had a more faithful heart, or a truer wish to save her father
at any cost to herself.

John Bold had not met her since the day when she left him in dudgeon in the cathedral close.
Since then his whole time had been occupied in promoting the cause against her father, and
not unsuccessfully. He had often thought of her, and turned over in his mind a hundred schemes
for showing her how disinterested was his love.  He would write to her and beseech her not
to allow the performance of a public duty to injure him in her estimation; he would write to
Mr Harding, explain all his views, and boldly claim the warden's daughter, urging that the
untoward circumstances between them need be no bar to their ancient friendship, or to a closer
tie; he would throw himself on his knees before his mistress; he would wait and marry the daughter
when the father has lost his home and his income; he would give up the lawsuit and go to Australia,
with her of course, leaving The Jupiter and Mr Finney to complete the case between them.  Sometimes
as he woke in the morning fevered and impatient, he would blow out his brains and have done
with all his cares;--but this idea was generally consequent on an imprudent supper enjoyed
in company with Tom Towers.

How beautiful Eleanor appeared to him as she slowly walked into the room!  Not for nothing
had all those little cares been taken.  Though her sister, the archdeacon's wife, had spoken
slightingly of her charms, Eleanor was very beautiful when seen aright.  Hers was not of those
impassive faces, which have the beauty of a marble bust; finely chiselled features, perfect
in every line, true to the rules of symmetry, as lovely to a stranger as to a friend, unvarying
unless in sickness, or as age affects them.  She had no startling brilliancy of beauty, no
pearly whiteness, no radiant carnation.  She had not the majestic contour that rivets attention,
demands instant wonder, and then disappoints by the coldness of its charms.  You might pass
Eleanor Harding in the street without notice, but you could hardly pass an evening with her
and not lose your heart.

She had never appeared more lovely to her lover than she now did.  Her face was animated though
it was serious, and her full dark lustrous eyes shone with anxious energy; her hand trembled
as she took his, and she could hardly pronounce his name, when she addressed him.  Bold wished
with all his heart that the Australian scheme was in the act of realisation, and that he and
Eleanor were away together, never to hear further of the lawsuit.

He began to talk, asked after her health,--said something about London being very stupid, and
more about Barchester being very pleasant; declared the weather to be very hot, and then inquired
after Mr Harding.

"My father is not very well," said Eleanor.

John Bold was very sorry,--so sorry: he hoped it was nothing serious, and put on the unmeaningly
solemn face which people usually use on such occasions.

"I especially want to speak to you about my father, Mr Bold; indeed, I am now here on purpose
to do so.  Papa is very unhappy, very unhappy indeed, about this affair of the hospital: you
would pity him, Mr Bold, if you could see how wretched it has made him."

"Oh, Miss Harding!"

"Indeed you would;--anyone would pity him; but a friend, an old friend as you are,--indeed
you would.  He is an altered man; his cheerfulness has all gone, and his sweet temper, and
his kind happy tone of voice; you would hardly know him if you saw him, Mr Bold, he is so much
altered; and--and--if this goes on, he will die."  Here Eleanor had recourse to her handkerchief,
and so also had her auditors; but she plucked up her courage, and went on with her tale.  "He
will break his heart, and die.  I am sure, Mr Bold, it was not you who wrote those cruel things
in the newspaper--"

John Bold eagerly protested that it was not, but his heart smote him as to his intimate alliance
with Tom Towers.

"No, I am sure it was not; and papa has not for a moment thought so; you would not be so cruel;--but
it has nearly killed him.  Papa cannot bear to think that people should so speak of him, and
that everybody should hear him so spoken of:--they have called him avaricious, and dishonest,
and they say he is robbing the old men, and taking the money of the hospital for nothing."

"I have never said so, Miss Harding.  I--"

"No," continued Eleanor, interrupting him, for she was now in the full flood-tide of her eloquence;
"no, I am sure you have not; but others have said so; and if this goes on, if such things are
written again, it will kill papa.  Oh! Mr Bold, if you only knew the state he is in! Now papa
does not care much about money."

Both her auditors, brother and sister, assented to this, and declared on their own knowledge
that no man lived less addicted to filthy lucre than the warden.

"Oh! it's so kind of you to say so, Mary, and of you too, Mr Bold. I couldn't bear that people
should think unjustly of papa.  Do you know he would give up the hospital altogether, only
he cannot.  The archdeacon says it would be cowardly, and that he would be deserting his order,
and injuring the church.  Whatever may happen, papa will not do that: he would leave the place
to-morrow willingly, and give up his house, and the income and all, if the archdeacon--"

Eleanor was going to say "would let him," but she stopped herself before she had compromised
her father's dignity; and giving a long sigh, she added--"Oh, I do so wish he would."

"No one who knows Mr Harding personally accuses him for a moment," said Bold.

"It is he that has to bear the punishment; it is he that suffers," said Eleanor; "and what
for? what has he done wrong? how has he deserved this persecution? he that never had an unkind
thought in his life, he that never said an unkind word!" and here she broke down, and the violence
of her sobs stopped her utterance.

Bold, for the fifth or sixth time, declared that neither he nor any of his friends imputed
any blame personally to Mr Harding.

"Then why should he be persecuted?" ejaculated Eleanor through her tears, forgetting in her
eagerness that her intention had been to humble herself as a suppliant before John Bold;--"why
should he be singled out for scorn and disgrace? why should he be made so wretched? Oh! Mr
Bold,"--and she turned towards him as though the kneeling scene were about to be commenced,--"oh!
Mr Bold, why did you begin all this? You, whom we all so--so--valued!"

To speak the truth, the reformer's punishment was certainly come upon him, for his present
plight was not enviable; he had nothing for it but to excuse himself by platitudes about public
duty, which it is by no means worth while to repeat, and to reiterate his eulogy on Mr Harding's
character.  His position was certainly a cruel one: had any gentleman called upon him on behalf
of Mr Harding he could of course have declined to enter upon the subject; but how could he
do so with a beautiful girl, with the daughter of the man whom he had injured, with his own love?

In the meantime Eleanor recollected herself, and again summoned up her energies.  "Mr Bold,"
said she, "I have come here to implore you to abandon this proceeding."  He stood up from his
seat, and looked beyond measure distressed.  "To implore you to abandon it, to implore you
to spare my father, to spare either his life or his reason, for one or the other will pay the
forfeit if this goes on.  I know how much I am asking, and how little right I have to ask anything;
but I think you will listen to me as it is for my father.  Oh, Mr Bold, pray, pray do this
for us;--pray do not drive to distraction a man who has loved you so well."

She did not absolutely kneel to him, but she followed him as he moved from his chair, and laid
her soft hands imploringly upon his arm.  Ah! at any other time how exquisitely valuable would
have been that touch! but now he was distraught, dumbfounded, and unmanned.  What could he
say to that sweet suppliant; how explain to her that the matter now was probably beyond his
control; how tell her that he could not quell the storm which he had raised?

"Surely, surely, John, you cannot refuse her," said his sister.

"I would give her my soul," said he, "if it would serve her."

"Oh, Mr Bold," said Eleanor, "do not speak so; I ask nothing for myself; and what I ask for
my father, it cannot harm you to grant."

"I would give her my soul, if it would serve her," said Bold, still addressing his sister;
"everything I have is hers, if she will accept it; my house, my heart, my all; every hope of
my breast is centred in her; her smiles are sweeter to me than the sun, and when I see her
in sorrow as she now is, every nerve in my body suffers.  No man can love better than I love her."

"No, no, no," ejaculated Eleanor; "there can be no talk of love between us.  Will you protect
my father from the evil you have brought upon him?"

"Oh, Eleanor, I will do anything; let me tell you how I love you!"

"No, no, no!" she almost screamed.  "This is unmanly of you, Mr Bold. Will you, will you, will
you leave my father to die in peace in his quiet home?" and seizing him by his arm and hand,
she followed him across the room towards the door.  "I will not leave you till you promise
me; I'll cling to you in the street; I'll kneel to you before all the people.  You shall promise
me this, you shall promise me this, you shall--" And she clung to him with fixed tenacity,
and reiterated her resolve with hysterical passion.

"Speak to her, John; answer her," said Mary, bewildered by the unexpected vehemence of Eleanor's
manner; "you cannot have the cruelty to refuse her."

"Promise me, promise me," said Eleanor; "say that my father is safe;--one word will do.  I
know how true you are; say one word, and I will let you go."

She still held him, and looked eagerly into his face, with her hair dishevelled and her eyes
all bloodshot.  She had no thought now of herself, no care now for her appearance; and yet
he thought he had never seen her half so lovely; he was amazed at the intensity of her beauty,
and could hardly believe that it was she whom he had dared to love.  "Promise me," said she;
"I will not leave you till you have promised me."

"I will," said he at length; "I do--all I can do, I will do."

"Then may God Almighty bless you for ever and ever!" said Eleanor; and falling on her knees
with her face in Mary's lap, she wept and sobbed like a child: her strength had carried her
through her allotted task, but now it was well nigh exhausted.

In a while she was partly recovered, and got up to go, and would have gone, had not Bold made
her understand that it was necessary for him to explain to her how far it was in his power
to put an end to the proceedings which had been taken against Mr Harding.  Had he spoken on
any other subject, she would have vanished, but on that she was bound to hear him; and now
the danger of her position commenced.  While she had an active part to play, while she clung
to him as a suppliant, it was easy enough for her to reject his proffered love, and cast from
her his caressing words; but now--now that he had yielded, and was talking to her calmly and
kindly as to her father's welfare, it was hard enough for her to do so.  Then Mary Bold assisted
her; but now she was quite on her brother's side.  Mary said but little, but every word she
did say gave some direct and deadly blow.  The first thing she did was to make room for her
brother between herself and Eleanor on the sofa: as the sofa was full large for three, Eleanor
could not resent this, nor could she show suspicion by taking another seat; but she felt it
to be a most unkind proceeding.  And then Mary would talk as though they three were joined
in some close peculiar bond together; as though they were in future always to wish together,
contrive together, and act together; and Eleanor could not gainsay this; she could not make
another speech, and say, "Mr Bold and I are strangers, Mary, and are always to remain so!"

He explained to her that, though undoubtedly the proceeding against the hospital had commenced
solely with himself, many others were now interested in the matter, some of whom were much
more influential than himself; that it was to him alone, however, that the lawyers looked for
instruction as to their doings, and, more important still, for the payment of their bills;
and he promised that he would at once give them notice that it was his intention to abandon
the cause.  He thought, he said, that it was not probable that any active steps would be taken
after he had seceded from the matter, though it was possible that some passing allusion might
still be made to the hospital in the daily Jupiter.  He promised, however, that he would use
his best influence to prevent any further personal allusion being made to Mr Harding.  He then
suggested that he would on that afternoon ride over himself to Dr Grantly, and inform him of
his altered intentions on the subject, and with this view, he postponed his immediate return
to London.

This was all very pleasant, and Eleanor did enjoy a sort of triumph in the feeling that she
had attained the object for which she had sought this interview; but still the part of Iphigenia
was to be played out. The gods had heard her prayer, granted her request, and were they not
to have their promised sacrifice?  Eleanor was not a girl to defraud them wilfully; so, as
soon as she decently could, she got up for her bonnet.

"Are you going so soon?" said Bold, who half an hour since would have given a hundred pounds
that he was in London, and she still at Barchester.

"Oh yes!" said she.  "I am so much obliged to you; papa will feel this to be so kind."  She
did not quite appreciate all her father's feelings.  "Of course I must tell him, and I will
say that you will see the archdeacon."

"But may I not say one word for myself?" said Bold.

"I'll fetch you your bonnet, Eleanor," said Mary, in the act of leaving the room.

"Mary, Mary," said she, getting up and catching her by her dress; "don't go, I'll get my bonnet
myself."  But Mary, the traitress, stood fast by the door, and permitted no such retreat. Poor
Iphigenia!

And with a volley of impassioned love, John Bold poured forth the feelings of his heart, swearing,
as men do, some truths and many falsehoods; and Eleanor repeated with every shade of vehemence
the "No, no, no," which had had a short time since so much effect; but now, alas! its strength
was gone.  Let her be never so vehement, her vehemence was not respected; all her "No, no,
no's" were met with counter-asseverations, and at last were overpowered.  The ground was cut
from under her on every side.  She was pressed to say whether her father would object; whether
she herself had any aversion (aversion! God help her, poor girl! the word nearly made her jump
into his arms); any other preference (this she loudly disclaimed); whether it was impossible
that she should love him (Eleanor could not say that it was impossible): and so at last all
her defences demolished, all her maiden barriers swept away, she capitulated, or rather marched
out with the honours of war, vanquished evidently, palpably vanquished, but still not reduced
to the necessity of confessing it.

And so the altar on the shore of the modern Aulis reeked with no sacrifice.

Chapter XII

MR BOLD'S VISIT TO PLUMSTEAD

Whether or no the ill-natured prediction made by certain ladies in the beginning of the last
chapter was or was not carried out to the letter, I am not in a position to state.  Eleanor,
however, certainly did feel herself to have been baffled as she returned home with all her
news to her father.  Certainly she had been victorious, certainly she had achieved her object,
certainly she was not unhappy, and yet she did not feel herself triumphant.  Everything would
run smooth now. Eleanor was not at all addicted to the Lydian school of romance; she by no
means objected to her lover because he came in at the door under the name of Absolute, instead
of pulling her out of a window under the name of Beverley; and yet she felt that she had been
imposed upon, and could hardly think of Mary Bold with sisterly charity.  "I did think I could
have trusted Mary," she said to herself over and over again. "Oh that she should have dared
to keep me in the room when I tried to get out!"  Eleanor, however, felt that the game was
up, and that she had now nothing further to do but to add to the budget of news which was prepared
for her father, that John Bold was her accepted lover.

We will, however, now leave her on her way, and go with John Bold to Plumstead Episcopi, merely
premising that Eleanor on reaching home will not find things so smooth as she fondly expected;
two messengers had come, one to her father and the other to the archdeacon, and each of them
much opposed to her quiet mode of solving all their difficulties; the one in the shape of a
number of The Jupiter, and the other in that of a further opinion from Sir Abraham Haphazard.

John Bold got on his horse and rode off to Plumstead Episcopi; not briskly and with eager spur,
as men do ride when self-satisfied with their own intentions; but slowly, modestly, thoughtfully,
and somewhat in dread of the coming interview.  Now and again he would recur to the scene which
was just over, support himself by the remembrance of the silence that gives consent, and exult
as a happy lover.  But even this feeling was not without a shade of remorse.  Had he not shown
himself childishly weak thus to yield up the resolve of many hours of thought to the tears
of a pretty girl?  How was he to meet his lawyer? How was he to back out of a matter in which
his name was already so publicly concerned?  What, oh what! was he to say to Tom Towers? While
meditating these painful things he reached the lodge leading up to the archdeacon's glebe,
and for the first time in his life found himself within the sacred precincts.

All the doctor's children were together on the slope of the lawn, close to the road, as Bold
rode up to the hall door.  They were there holding high debate on matters evidently of deep
interest at Plumstead Episcopi, and the voices of the boys had been heard before the lodge
gate was closed.

Florinda and Grizzel, frightened at the sight of so well-known an enemy to the family, fled
on the first appearance of the horseman, and ran in terror to their mother's arms; not for
them was it, tender branches, to resent injuries, or as members of a church militant to put
on armour against its enemies.  But the boys stood their ground like heroes, and boldly demanded
the business of the intruder.

"Do you want to see anybody here, sir?" said Henry, with a defiant eye and a hostile tone,
which plainly said that at any rate no one there wanted to see the person so addressed; and
as he spoke he brandished aloft his garden water-pot, holding it by the spout, ready for the
braining of anyone.

"Henry," said Charles James slowly, and with a certain dignity of diction, "Mr Bold of course
would not have come without wanting to see someone; if Mr Bold has a proper ground for wanting
to see some person here, of course he has a right to come."

But Samuel stepped lightly up to the horse's head, and offered his services.  "Oh, Mr Bold,"
said he, "papa, I'm sure, will be glad to see you; I suppose you want to see papa.  Shall I
hold your horse for you?  Oh what a very pretty horse!" and he turned his head and winked funnily
at his brothers.  "Papa has heard such good news about the old hospital to-day.  We know you'll
be glad to hear it, because you're such a friend of grandpapa Harding, and so much in love
with Aunt Nelly!"

"How d'ye do, lads?" said Bold, dismounting.  "I want to see your father if he's at home."

"Lads!" said Henry, turning on his heel and addressing himself to his brother, but loud enough
to be heard by Bold; "lads, indeed! if we're lads, what does he call himself?"

Charles James condescended to say nothing further, but cocked his hat with much precision,
and left the visitor to the care of his youngest brother.

Samuel stayed till the servant came, chatting and patting the horse; but as soon as Bold had
disappeared through the front door, he stuck a switch under the animal's tail to make him kick
if possible.

The church reformer soon found himself tête-à-tête with the archdeacon in that same room, in
that sanctum sanctorum of the rectory, to which we have already been introduced.  As he entered
he heard the click of a certain patent lock, but it struck him with no surprise; the worthy
clergyman was no doubt hiding from eyes profane his last much-studied sermon; for the archdeacon,
though he preached but seldom, was famous for his sermons.  No room, Bold thought, could have
been more becoming for a dignitary of the church; each wall was loaded with theology; over
each separate bookcase was printed in small gold letters the names of those great divines whose
works were ranged beneath: beginning from the early fathers in due chronological order, there
were to be found the precious labours of the chosen servants of the church down to the last
pamphlet written in opposition to the consecration of Dr Hampden; and raised above this were
to be seen the busts of the greatest among the great: Chrysostom, St Augustine, Thomas à Becket,
Cardinal Wolsey, Archbishop Laud, and Dr Philpotts.

Every appliance that could make study pleasant and give ease to the overtoiled brain was there;
chairs made to relieve each limb and muscle; reading-desks and writing-desks to suit every
attitude; lamps and candles mechanically contrived to throw their light on any favoured spot,
as the student might desire; a shoal of newspapers to amuse the few leisure moments which might
be stolen from the labours of the day; and then from the window a view right through a bosky
vista along which ran a broad green path from the rectory to the church,--at the end of which
the tawny-tinted fine old tower was seen with all its variegated pinnacles and parapets.  Few
parish churches in England are in better repair, or better worth keeping so, than that at Plumstead
Episcopi; and yet it is built in a faulty style: the body of the church is low,--so low, that
the nearly flat leaden roof would be visible from the churchyard, were it not for the carved
parapet with which it is surrounded.  It is cruciform, though the transepts are irregular,
one being larger than the other; and the tower is much too high in proportion to the church.
But the colour of the building is perfect; it is that rich yellow gray which one finds nowhere
but in the south and west of England, and which is so strong a characteristic of most of our
old houses of Tudor architecture.  The stone work also is beautiful; the mullions of the windows
and the thick tracery of the Gothic workmanship is as rich as fancy can desire; and though
in gazing on such a structure one knows by rule that the old priests who built it, built it
wrong, one cannot bring oneself to wish that they should have made it other than it is.

When Bold was ushered into the book-room, he found its owner standing with his back to the
empty fire-place ready to receive him, and he could not but perceive that that expansive brow
was elated with triumph, and that those full heavy lips bore more prominently than usual an
appearance of arrogant success.

"Well, Mr Bold," said he;--"well, what can I do for you? Very happy, I can assure you, to do
anything for such a friend of my father-in-law."

"I hope you'll excuse my calling, Dr Grantly."

"Certainly, certainly," said the archdeacon; "I can assure you, no apology is necessary from
Mr Bold;--only let me know what I can do for him."

Dr Grantly was standing himself, and he did not ask Bold to sit, and therefore he had to tell
his tale standing, leaning on the table, with his hat in his hand.  He did, however, manage
to tell it; and as the archdeacon never once interrupted him, or even encouraged him by a single
word, he was not long in coming to the end of it.

"And so, Mr Bold, I'm to understand, I believe, that you are desirous of abandoning this attack
upon Mr Harding."

"Oh, Dr Grantly, there has been no attack, I can assure you--"

"Well, well, we won't quarrel about words; I should call it an attack;--most men would so call
an endeavour to take away from a man every shilling of income that he has to live upon; but
it sha'n't be an attack, if you don't like it; you wish to abandon this--this little game of
backgammon you've begun to play."

"I intend to put an end to the legal proceedings which I have commenced."

"I understand," said the archdeacon.  "You've already had enough of it; well, I can't say that
I am surprised; carrying on a losing lawsuit where one has nothing to gain, but everything
to pay, is not pleasant."

Bold turned very red in the face.  "You misinterpret my motives," said he; "but, however, that
is of little consequence.  I did not come to trouble you with my motives, but to tell you a
matter of fact. Good-morning, Dr Grantly."

"One moment,--one moment," said the other.  "I don't exactly appreciate the taste which induced
you to make any personal communication to me on the subject; but I dare say I'm wrong, I dare
say your judgment is the better of the two; but as you have done me the honour,--as you have,
as it were, forced me into a certain amount of conversation on a subject which had better,
perhaps, have been left to our lawyers, you will excuse me if I ask you to hear my reply to
your communication."

"I am in no hurry, Dr Grantly."

"Well, I am, Mr Bold; my time is not exactly leisure time, and, therefore, if you please, we'll
go to the point at once:--you're going to abandon this lawsuit?"--and he paused for a reply.

"Yes, Dr Grantly, I am."

"Having exposed a gentleman who was one of your father's warmest friends to all the ignominy
and insolence which the press could heap upon his name, having somewhat ostentatiously declared
that it was your duty as a man of high public virtue to protect those poor old fools whom you
have humbugged there at the hospital, you now find that the game costs more than it's worth,
and so you make up your mind to have done with it.  A prudent resolution, Mr Bold; but it is
a pity you should have been so long coming to it.  Has it struck you that we may not now choose
to give over? that we may find it necessary to punish the injury you have done to us?  Are
you aware, sir, that we have gone to enormous expense to resist this iniquitous attempt of yours?"

Bold's face was now furiously red, and he nearly crushed his hat between his hands; but he
said nothing.

"We have found it necessary to employ the best advice that money could procure.  Are you aware,
sir, what may be the probable cost of securing the services of the attorney-general?"

"Not in the least, Dr Grantly."

"I dare say not, sir.  When you recklessly put this affair into the hands of your friend Mr
Finney, whose six-and-eightpences and thirteen-and-fourpences may, probably, not amount to
a large sum, you were indifferent as to the cost and suffering which such a proceeding might
entail on others; but are you aware, sir, that these crushing costs must now come out of your
own pocket?"

"Any demand of such a nature which Mr Harding's lawyer may have to make will doubtless be made
to my lawyer."

"'Mr Harding's lawyer and my lawyer!' Did you come here merely to refer me to the lawyers?
Upon my word I think the honour of your visit might have been spared!  And now, sir, I'll tell
you what my opinion is:--my opinion is, that we shall not allow you to withdraw this matter
from the courts."

"You can do as you please, Dr Grantly; good-morning."

"Hear me out, sir," said the archdeacon; "I have here in my hands the last opinion given in
this matter by Sir Abraham Haphazard.  I dare say you have already heard of this;--I dare say
it has had something to do with your visit here to-day."

"I know nothing whatever of Sir Abraham Haphazard or his opinion."

"Be that as it may, here it is; he declares most explicitly that under no phasis of the affair
whatever have you a leg to stand upon; that Mr Harding is as safe in his hospital as I am here
in my rectory; that a more futile attempt to destroy a man was never made, than this which
you have made to ruin Mr Harding.  Here," and he slapped the paper on the table, "I have this
opinion from the very first lawyer in the land; and under these circumstances you expect me
to make you a low bow for your kind offer to release Mr Harding from the toils of your net!
Sir, your net is not strong enough to hold him; sir, your net has fallen to pieces, and you
knew that well enough before I told you--and now, sir, I'll wish you good-morning, for I'm busy."

Bold was now choking with passion.  He had let the archdeacon run on because he knew not with
what words to interrupt him; but now that he had been so defied and insulted, he could not
leave the room without some reply.

"Dr Grantly," he commenced.

"I have nothing further to say or to hear," said the archdeacon. "I'll do myself the honour
to order your horse."  And he rang the bell.

"I came here, Dr Grantly, with the warmest, kindest feelings--"

"Oh, of course you did; nobody doubts it."

"With the kindest feelings;--and they have been most grossly outraged by your treatment."

"Of course they have;--I have not chosen to see my father-in-law ruined; what an outrage that
has been to your feelings!"

"The time will come, Dr Grantly, when you will understand why I called upon you to-day."

"No doubt, no doubt.  Is Mr Bold's horse there?  That's right; open the front door.  Good-morning,
Mr Bold;" and the doctor stalked into his own drawing-room, closing the door behind him, and
making it quite impossible that John Bold should speak another word.

As he got on his horse, which he was fain to do feeling like a dog turned out of a kitchen,
he was again greeted by little Sammy.

"Good-bye, Mr Bold; I hope we may have the pleasure of seeing you again before long; I am sure
papa will always be glad to see you."

That was certainly the bitterest moment in John Bold's life.  Not even the remembrance of his
successful love could comfort him; nay, when he thought of Eleanor he felt that it was that
very love which had brought him to such a pass.  That he should have been so insulted, and
be unable to reply!  That he should have given up so much to the request of a girl, and then
have had his motives so misunderstood! That he should have made so gross a mistake as this
visit of his to the archdeacon's!  He bit the top of his whip, till he penetrated the horn
of which it was made: he struck the poor animal in his anger, and then was doubly angry with
himself at his futile passion.  He had been so completely checkmated, so palpably overcome!
and what was he to do? He could not continue his action after pledging himself to abandon it;
nor was there any revenge in that;--it was the very step to which his enemy had endeavoured
to goad him!

He threw the reins to the servant who came to take his horse, and rushed upstairs into his
drawing-room, where his sister Mary was sitting.

"If there be a devil," said he, "a real devil here on earth, it is Dr Grantly."  He vouchsafed
her no further intelligence, but again seizing his hat, he rushed out, and took his departure
for London without another word to anyone.

Chapter XIII

THE WARDEN'S DECISION

The meeting between Eleanor and her father was not so stormy as that described in the last
chapter, but it was hardly more successful.  On her return from Bold's house she found her
father in a strange state. He was not sorrowful and silent as he had been on that memorable
day when his son-in-law lectured him as to all that he owed to his order; nor was he in his
usual quiet mood.  When Eleanor reached the hospital, he was walking to and fro upon the lawn,
and she soon saw that he was much excited.

"I am going to London, my dear," he said as soon as he saw her.

"London, papa!"

"Yes, my dear, to London; I will have this matter settled some way; there are some things,
Eleanor, which I cannot bear."

"Oh, papa, what is it?" said she, leading him by the arm into the house.  "I had such good
news for you, and now you make me fear I am too late."  And then, before he could let her know
what had caused this sudden resolve, or could point to the fatal paper which lay on the table,
she told him that the lawsuit was over, that Bold had commissioned her to assure her father
in his name that it would be abandoned,--that there was no further cause for misery, that the
whole matter might be looked on as though it had never been discussed.  She did not tell him
with what determined vehemence she had obtained this concession in his favour, nor did she
mention the price she was to pay for it.

The warden did not express himself peculiarly gratified at this intelligence, and Eleanor,
though she had not worked for thanks, and was by no means disposed to magnify her own good
offices, felt hurt at the manner in which her news was received.  "Mr Bold can act as he thinks
proper, my love," said he; "if Mr Bold thinks he has been wrong, of course he will discontinue
what he is doing; but that cannot change my purpose."

"Oh, papa!" she exclaimed, all but crying with vexation; "I thought you would have been so
happy;--I thought all would have been right now."

"Mr Bold," continued he, "has set great people to work,--so great that I doubt they are now
beyond his control.  Read that, my dear."  The warden, doubling up a number of The Jupiter,
pointed to the peculiar article which she was to read.  It was to the last of the three leaders,
which are generally furnished daily for the support of the nation, that Mr Harding directed
her attention.  It dealt some heavy blows on various clerical delinquents; on families who
received their tens of thousands yearly for doing nothing; on men who, as the article stated,
rolled in wealth which they had neither earned nor inherited, and which was in fact stolen
from the poorer clergy.  It named some sons of bishops, and grandsons of archbishops; men great
in their way, who had redeemed their disgrace in the eyes of many by the enormity of their
plunder; and then, having disposed of these leviathans, it descended to Mr Harding.

   We alluded some weeks since to an instance of similar
   injustice, though in a more humble scale, in which the warden
   of an almshouse at Barchester has become possessed of the
   income of the greater part of the whole institution.  Why an
   almshouse should have a warden we cannot pretend to explain,
   nor can we say what special need twelve old men can have for
   the services of a separate clergyman, seeing that they have
   twelve reserved seats for themselves in Barchester Cathedral.
   But be this as it may, let the gentleman call himself warden
   or precentor, or what he will, let him be never so scrupulous
   in exacting religious duties from his twelve dependents, or
   never so negligent as regards the services of the cathedral,
   it appears palpably clear that he can be entitled to no
   portion of the revenue of the hospital, excepting that which
   the founder set apart for him; and it is equally clear that
   the founder did not intend that three-fifths of his charity
   should be so consumed.

   The case is certainly a paltry one after the tens of
   thousands with which we have been dealing, for the warden's
   income is after all but a poor eight hundred a year: eight
   hundred a year is not magnificent preferment of itself, and
   the warden may, for anything we know, be worth much more to
   the church; but if so, let the church pay him out of funds
   justly at its own disposal.

   We allude to the question of the Barchester almshouse at the
   present moment, because we understand that a plea has been
   set up which will be peculiarly revolting to the minds of
   English churchmen.  An action has been taken against Mr
   Warden Harding, on behalf of the almsmen, by a gentleman
   acting solely on public grounds, and it is to be argued that
   Mr Harding takes nothing but what he received as a servant of
   the hospital, and that he is not himself responsible for the
   amount of stipend given to him for his work.  Such a plea
   would doubtless be fair, if anyone questioned the daily wages
   of a bricklayer employed on the building, or the fee of the
   charwoman who cleans it; but we cannot envy the feeling of a
   clergyman of the Church of England who could allow such an
   argument to be put in his mouth.

   If this plea be put forward we trust Mr Harding will be
   forced as a witness to state the nature of his employment;
   the amount of work that he does; the income which he
   receives; and the source from whence he obtained his
   appointment.  We do not think he will receive much public
   sympathy to atone for the annoyance of such an examination.

As Eleanor read the article her face flushed with indignation, and when she had finished it,
she almost feared to look up at her father.

"Well, my dear," said he, "what do you think of that;--is it worth while to be a warden at
that price?"

"Oh, papa;--dear papa!"

"Mr Bold can't un-write that, my dear;--Mr Bold can't say that that sha'n't be read by every
clergyman at Oxford; nay, by every gentleman in the land;" and then he walked up and down the
room, while Eleanor in mute despair followed him with her eyes.  "And I'll tell you what, my
dear," he continued, speaking now very calmly, and in a forced manner very unlike himself;
"Mr Bold can't dispute the truth of every word in that article you have just read--nor can
I."  Eleanor stared at him, as though she scarcely understood the words he was speaking. "Nor
can I, Eleanor: that's the worst of all, or would be so if there were no remedy.  I have thought
much of all this since we were together last night;" and he came and sat beside her, and put
his arm round her waist as he had done then.  "I have thought much of what the archdeacon has
said, and of what this paper says; and I do believe I have no right to be here."

"No right to be warden of the hospital, papa?"

"No right to be warden with eight hundred a year; no right to be warden with such a house as
this; no right to spend in luxury money that was intended for charity.  Mr Bold may do as he
pleases about his suit, but I hope he will not abandon it for my sake."

Poor Eleanor! this was hard upon her.  Was it for this she had made her great resolve!  For
this that she had laid aside her quiet demeanour, and taken upon her the rants of a tragedy
heroine!  One may work and not for thanks, but yet feel hurt at not receiving them; and so
it was with Eleanor: one may be disinterested in one's good actions, and yet feel discontented
that they are not recognised. Charity may be given with the left hand so privily that the right
hand does not know it, and yet the left hand may regret to feel that it has no immediate reward.
Eleanor had had no wish to burden her father with a weight of obligation, and yet she had looked
forward to much delight from the knowledge that she had freed him from his sorrows: now such
hopes were entirely over: all that she had done was of no avail; she had humbled herself to
Bold in vain; the evil was utterly beyond her power to cure!

She had thought also how gently she would whisper to her father all that her lover had said
to her about herself, and how impossible she had found it to reject him: and then she had anticipated
her father's kindly kiss and close embrace as he gave his sanction to her love. Alas! she could
say nothing of this now.  In speaking of Mr Bold, her father put him aside as one whose thoughts
and sayings and acts could be of no moment.  Gentle reader, did you ever feel yourself snubbed?
Did you ever, when thinking much of your own importance, find yourself suddenly reduced to
a nonentity?  Such was Eleanor's feeling now.

"They shall not put forward this plea on my behalf," continued the warden.  "Whatever may be
the truth of the matter, that at any rate is not true; and the man who wrote that article is
right in saying that such a plea is revolting to an honest mind.  I will go up to London, my
dear, and see these lawyers myself, and if no better excuse can be made for me than that, I
and the hospital will part."

"But the archdeacon, papa?"

"I can't help it, my dear; there are some things which a man cannot bear:--I cannot bear that;"
and he put his hand upon the newspaper.

"But will the archdeacon go with you?"

To tell the truth, Mr Harding had made up his mind to steal a march upon the archdeacon.  He
was aware that he could take no steps without informing his dread son-in-law, but he had resolved
that he would send out a note to Plumstead Episcopi detailing his plans, but that the messenger
should not leave Barchester till he himself had started for London; so that he might be a day
before the doctor, who, he had no doubt, would follow him.  In that day, if he had luck, he
might arrange it all; he might explain to Sir Abraham that he, as warden, would have nothing
further to do with the defence about to be set up; he might send in his official resignation
to his friend the bishop, and so make public the whole transaction, that even the doctor would
not be able to undo what he had done.  He knew too well the doctor's strength and his own weakness
to suppose he could do this, if they both reached London together; indeed, he would never be
able to get to London, if the doctor knew of his intended journey in time to prevent it.

"No, I think not," said he.  "I think I shall start before the archdeacon could be ready;--I
shall go early to-morrow morning."

"That will be best, papa," said Eleanor, showing that her father's ruse was appreciated.

"Why yes, my love.  The fact is, I wish to do all this before the archdeacon can--can interfere.
There is a great deal of truth in all he says;--he argues very well, and I can't always answer
him; but there is an old saying, Nelly: 'Everyone knows where his own shoe pinches!'  He'll
say that I want moral courage, and strength of character, and power of endurance, and it's
all true; but I'm sure I ought not to remain here, if I have nothing better to put forward
than a quibble: so, Nelly, we shall have to leave this pretty place."

Eleanor's face brightened up, as she assured her father how cordially she agreed with him.

"True, my love," said he, now again quite happy and at ease in his manner.  "What good to us
is this place or all the money, if we are to be ill-spoken of?"

"Oh, papa, I am so glad!"

"My darling child!  It did cost me a pang at first, Nelly, to think that you should lose your
pretty drawing-room, and your ponies, and your garden: the garden will be the worst of all;--but
there is a garden at Crabtree, a very pretty garden."

Crabtree Parva was the name of the small living which Mr Harding had held as a minor canon,
and which still belonged to him.  It was only worth some eighty pounds a year, and a small
house and glebe, all of which were now handed over to Mr Harding's curate; but it was to Crabtree
glebe that Mr Harding thought of retiring.  This parish must not be mistaken for that other
living, Crabtree Canonicorum, as it is called.  Crabtree Canonicorum is a very nice thing;
there are only two hundred parishioners; there are four hundred acres of glebe; and the great
and small tithes, which both go to the rector, are worth four hundred pounds a year more. 
Crabtree Canonicorum is in the gift of the dean and chapter, and is at this time possessed
by the Honourable and Reverend Dr Vesey Stanhope, who also fills the prebendal stall of Goosegorge
in Barchester Chapter, and holds the united rectory of Eiderdown and Stogpingum, or Stoke Pinquium,
as it should be written. This is the same Dr Vesey Stanhope whose hospitable villa on the Lake
of Como is so well known to the élite of English travellers, and whose collection of Lombard
butterflies is supposed to be unique.

"Yes," said the warden, musing, "there is a very pretty garden at Crabtree;--but I shall be
sorry to disturb poor Smith." Smith was the curate of Crabtree, a gentleman who was maintaining
a wife and half a dozen children on the income arising from his profession.

Eleanor assured her father that, as far as she was concerned, she could leave her house and
her ponies without a single regret.  She was only so happy that he was going--going where he
would escape all this dreadful turmoil.

"But we will take the music, my dear."

And so they went on planning their future happiness, and plotting how they would arrange it
all without the interposition of the archdeacon, and at last they again became confidential,
and then the warden did thank her for what she had done, and Eleanor, lying on her father's
shoulder, did find an opportunity to tell her secret: and the father gave his blessing to his
child, and said that the man whom she loved was honest, good, and kind-hearted, and right-thinking
in the main,--one who wanted only a good wife to put him quite upright,--"a man, my love,"
he ended by saying, "to whom I firmly believe that I can trust my treasure with safety."

"But what will Dr Grantly say?"

"Well, my dear, it can't be helped;--we shall be out at Crabtree then."

And Eleanor ran upstairs to prepare her father's clothes for his journey; and the warden returned
to his garden to make his last adieux to every tree, and shrub, and shady nook that he knew
so well.

Chapter XIV

MOUNT OLYMPUS

Wretched in spirit, groaning under the feeling of insult, self-condemning, and ill-satisfied
in every way, Bold returned to his London lodgings.  Ill as he had fared in his interview with
the archdeacon, he was not the less under the necessity of carrying out his pledge to Eleanor;
and he went about his ungracious task with a heavy heart.

The attorneys whom he had employed in London received his instructions with surprise and evident
misgiving; however, they could only obey, and mutter something of their sorrow that such heavy
costs should only fall upon their own employer,--especially as nothing was wanting but perseverance
to throw them on the opposite party.  Bold left the office which he had latterly so much frequented,
shaking the dust from off his feet; and before he was down the stairs, an edict had already
gone forth for the preparation of the bill.

He next thought of the newspapers.  The case had been taken up by more than one; and he was
well aware that the keynote had been sounded by The Jupiter.  He had been very intimate with
Tom Towers, and had often discussed with him the affairs of the hospital.  Bold could not say
that the articles in that paper had been written at his own instigation.  He did not even know,
as a fact, that they had been written by his friend.  Tom Towers had never said that such a
view of the case, or such a side in the dispute, would be taken by the paper with which he
was connected.  Very discreet in such matters was Tom Towers, and altogether indisposed to
talk loosely of the concerns of that mighty engine of which it was his high privilege to move
in secret some portion.  Nevertheless Bold believed that to him were owing those dreadful words
which had caused such panic at Barchester,--and he conceived himself bound to prevent their
repetition.  With this view he betook himself from the attorneys' office to that laboratory
where, with amazing chemistry, Tom Towers compounded thunderbolts for the destruction of all
that is evil, and for the furtherance of all that is good, in this and other hemispheres.

Who has not heard of Mount Olympus,--that high abode of all the powers of type, that favoured
seat of the great goddess Pica, that wondrous habitation of gods and devils, from whence, with
ceaseless hum of steam and never-ending flow of Castalian ink, issue forth fifty thousand nightly
edicts for the governance of a subject nation?

Velvet and gilding do not make a throne, nor gold and jewels a sceptre.  It is a throne because
the most exalted one sits there,--and a sceptre because the most mighty one wields it.  So
it is with Mount Olympus.  Should a stranger make his way thither at dull noonday, or during
the sleepy hours of the silent afternoon, he would find no acknowledged temple of power and
beauty, no fitting fane for the great Thunderer, no proud façades and pillared roofs to support
the dignity of this greatest of earthly potentates.  To the outward and uninitiated eye, Mount
Olympus is a somewhat humble spot,--undistinguished, unadorned,--nay, almost mean.  It stands
alone, as it were, in a mighty city, close to the densest throng of men, but partaking neither
of the noise nor the crowd; a small secluded, dreary spot, tenanted, one would say, by quite
unambitious people at the easiest rents.  "Is this Mount Olympus?" asks the unbelieving stranger.
"Is it from these small, dark, dingy buildings that those infallible laws proceed which cabinets
are called upon to obey; by which bishops are to be guided, lords and commons controlled, judges
instructed in law, generals in strategy, admirals in naval tactics, and orange-women in the
management of their barrows?" "Yes, my friend--from these walls.  From here issue the only
known infallible bulls for the guidance of British souls and bodies. This little court is the
Vatican of England.  Here reigns a pope, self-nominated, self-consecrated,--ay, and much stranger
too,--self-believing!--a pope whom, if you cannot obey him, I would advise you to disobey as
silently as possible; a pope hitherto afraid of no Luther; a pope who manages his own inquisition,
who punishes unbelievers as no most skilful inquisitor of Spain ever dreamt of doing;--one
who can excommunicate thoroughly, fearfully, radically; put you beyond the pale of men's charity;
make you odious to your dearest friends, and turn you into a monster to be pointed at by the
finger!"  Oh heavens! and this is Mount Olympus!

It is a fact amazing to ordinary mortals that The Jupiter is never wrong.  With what endless
care, with what unsparing labour, do we not strive to get together for our great national council
the men most fitting to compose it.  And how we fail! Parliament is always wrong: look at The
Jupiter, and see how futile are their meetings, how vain their council, how needless all their
trouble!  With what pride do we regard our chief ministers, the great servants of state, the
oligarchs of the nation on whose wisdom we lean, to whom we look for guidance in our difficulties!
But what are they to the writers of The Jupiter? They hold council together and with anxious
thought painfully elaborate their country's good; but when all is done, The Jupiter declares
that all is naught.  Why should we look to Lord John Russell;--why should we regard Palmerston
and Gladstone, when Tom Towers without a struggle can put us right?  Look at our generals,
what faults they make; at our admirals, how inactive they are.  What money, honesty, and science
can do, is done; and yet how badly are our troops brought together, fed, conveyed, clothed,
armed, and managed. The most excellent of our good men do their best to man our ships, with
the assistance of all possible external appliances; but in vain. All, all is wrong--alas! alas!
Tom Towers, and he alone, knows all about it.  Why, oh why, ye earthly ministers, why have
ye not followed more closely this heaven-sent messenger that is among us?

Were it not well for us in our ignorance that we confided all things to The Jupiter?  Would
it not be wise in us to abandon useless talking, idle thinking, and profitless labour?  Away
with majorities in the House of Commons, with verdicts from judicial bench given after much
delay, with doubtful laws, and the fallible attempts of humanity! Does not The Jupiter, coming
forth daily with fifty thousand impressions full of unerring decision on every mortal subject,
set all matters sufficiently at rest?  Is not Tom Towers here, able to guide us and willing?

Yes indeed, able and willing to guide all men in all things, so long as he is obeyed as autocrat
should be obeyed,--with undoubting submission: only let not ungrateful ministers seek other
colleagues than those whom Tom Towers may approve; let church and state, law and physic, commerce
and agriculture, the arts of war, and the arts of peace, all listen and obey, and all will
be made perfect.  Has not Tom Towers an all-seeing eye?  From the diggings of Australia to
those of California, right round the habitable globe, does he not know, watch, and chronicle
the doings of everyone?  From a bishopric in New Zealand to an unfortunate director of a North-west
passage, is he not the only fit judge of capability?  From the sewers of London to the Central
Railway of India,--from the palaces of St Petersburg to the cabins of Connaught, nothing can
escape him.  Britons have but to read, to obey, and be blessed.  None but the fools doubt the
wisdom of The Jupiter; none but the mad dispute its facts.

No established religion has ever been without its unbelievers, even in the country where it
is the most firmly fixed; no creed has been without scoffers; no church has so prospered as
to free itself entirely from dissent.  There are those who doubt The Jupiter! They live and
breathe the upper air, walking here unscathed, though scorned,--men, born of British mothers
and nursed on English milk, who scruple not to say that Mount Olympus has its price, that Tom
Towers can be bought for gold!

Such is Mount Olympus, the mouthpiece of all the wisdom of this great country.  It may probably
be said that no place in this 19th century is more worthy of notice.  No treasury mandate armed
with the signatures of all the government has half the power of one of those broad sheets,
which fly forth from hence so abundantly, armed with no signature at all.

Some great man, some mighty peer,--we'll say a noble duke,--retires to rest feared and honoured
by all his countrymen,--fearless himself; if not a good man, at any rate a mighty man,--too
mighty to care much what men may say about his want of virtue.  He rises in the morning degraded,
mean, and miserable; an object of men's scorn, anxious only to retire as quickly as may be
to some German obscurity, some unseen Italian privacy, or indeed, anywhere out of sight.  What
has made this awful change? what has so afflicted him?  An article has appeared in The Jupiter;
some fifty lines of a narrow column have destroyed all his grace's equanimity, and banished
him for ever from the world. No man knows who wrote the bitter words; the clubs talk confusedly
of the matter, whispering to each other this and that name; while Tom Towers walks quietly
along Pall Mall, with his coat buttoned close against the east wind, as though he were a mortal
man, and not a god dispensing thunderbolts from Mount Olympus.

It was not to Mount Olympus that our friend Bold betook himself.  He had before now wandered
round that lonely spot, thinking how grand a thing it was to write articles for The Jupiter;
considering within himself whether by any stretch of the powers within him he could ever come
to such distinction; wondering how Tom Towers would take any little humble offering of his
talents; calculating that Tom Towers himself must have once had a beginning, have once doubted
as to his own success.  Towers could not have been born a writer in The Jupiter.  With such
ideas, half ambitious and half awe-struck, had Bold regarded the silent-looking workshop of
the gods; but he had never yet by word or sign attempted to influence the slightest word of
his unerring friend.  On such a course was he now intent; and not without much inward palpitation
did he betake himself to the quiet abode of wisdom, where Tom Towers was to be found o' mornings
inhaling ambrosia and sipping nectar in the shape of toast and tea.

Not far removed from Mount Olympus, but somewhat nearer to the blessed regions of the West,
is the most favoured abode of Themis.  Washed by the rich tide which now passes from the towers
of Cæsar to Barry's halls of eloquence; and again back, with new offerings of a city's tribute,
from the palaces of peers to the mart of merchants, stand those quiet walls which Law has delighted
to honour by its presence. What a world within a world is the Temple! how quiet are its "entangled
walks," as someone lately has called them, and yet how close to the densest concourse of humanity!
how gravely respectable its sober alleys, though removed but by a single step from the profanity
of the Strand and the low iniquity of Fleet Street!  Old St Dunstan, with its bell-smiting
bludgeoners, has been removed; the ancient shops with their faces full of pleasant history
are passing away one by one; the bar itself is to go--its doom has been pronounced by The Jupiter;
rumour tells us of some huge building that is to appear in these latitudes dedicated to law,
subversive of the courts of Westminster, and antagonistic to the Rolls and Lincoln's Inn; but
nothing yet threatens the silent beauty of the Temple: it is the mediæval court of the metropolis.

Here, on the choicest spot of this choice ground, stands a lofty row of chambers, looking obliquely
upon the sullied Thames; before the windows, the lawn of the Temple Gardens stretches with
that dim yet delicious verdure so refreshing to the eyes of Londoners.  If doomed to live within
the thickest of London smoke you would surely say that that would be your chosen spot.  Yes,
you, you whom I now address, my dear, middle-aged bachelor friend, can nowhere be so well domiciled
as here.  No one here will ask whether you are out or at home; alone or with friends; here
no Sabbatarian will investigate your Sundays, no censorious landlady will scrutinise your empty
bottle, no valetudinarian neighbour will complain of late hours.  If you love books, to what
place are books so suitable?  The whole spot is redolent of typography.  Would you worship
the Paphian goddess, the groves of Cyprus are not more taciturn than those of the Temple. Wit
and wine are always here, and always together; the revels of the Temple are as those of polished
Greece, where the wildest worshipper of Bacchus never forgot the dignity of the god whom he
adored. Where can retirement be so complete as here? where can you be so sure of all the pleasures
of society?

It was here that Tom Towers lived, and cultivated with eminent success the tenth Muse who now
governs the periodical press.  But let it not be supposed that his chambers were such, or so
comfortless, as are frequently the gaunt abodes of legal aspirants.  Four chairs, a half-filled
deal book-case with hangings of dingy green baize, an old office table covered with dusty papers,
which are not moved once in six months, and an older Pembroke brother with rickety legs, for
all daily uses; a despatcher for the preparation of lobsters and coffee, and an apparatus for
the cooking of toast and mutton chops; such utensils and luxuries as these did not suffice
for the well-being of Tom Towers.  He indulged in four rooms on the first floor, each of which
was furnished, if not with the splendour, with probably more than the comfort of Stafford House.
Every addition that science and art have lately made to the luxuries of modern life was to
be found there.  The room in which he usually sat was surrounded by book-shelves carefully
filled; nor was there a volume there which was not entitled to its place in such a collection,
both by its intrinsic worth and exterior splendour: a pretty portable set of steps in one corner
of the room showed that those even on the higher shelves were intended for use.  The chamber
contained but two works of art:--the one, an admirable bust of Sir Robert Peel, by Power, declared
the individual politics of our friend; and the other, a singularly long figure of a female
devotee, by Millais, told equally plainly the school of art to which he was addicted.  This
picture was not hung, as pictures usually are, against the wall; there was no inch of wall
vacant for such a purpose: it had a stand or desk erected for its own accommodation; and there
on her pedestal, framed and glazed, stood the devotional lady looking intently at a lily as
no lady ever looked before.

Our modern artists, whom we style Pre-Raphaelites, have delighted to go back, not only to the
finish and peculiar manner, but also to the subjects of the early painters.  It is impossible
to give them too much praise for the elaborate perseverance with which they have equalled the
minute perfections of the masters from whom they take their inspiration: nothing probably can
exceed the painting of some of these latter-day pictures.  It is, however, singular into what
faults they fall as regards their subjects: they are not quite content to take the old stock
groups,--a Sebastian with his arrows, a Lucia with her eyes in a dish, a Lorenzo with a gridiron,
or the Virgin with two children.  But they are anything but happy in their change.  As a rule,
no figure should be drawn in a position which it is impossible to suppose any figure should
maintain.  The patient endurance of St Sebastian, the wild ecstasy of St John in the Wilderness,
the maternal love of the Virgin, are feelings naturally portrayed by a fixed posture; but the
lady with the stiff back and bent neck, who looks at her flower, and is still looking from
hour to hour, gives us an idea of pain without grace, and abstraction without a cause.

It was easy, from his rooms, to see that Tom Towers was a Sybarite, though by no means an idle
one.  He was lingering over his last cup of tea, surrounded by an ocean of newspapers, through
which he had been swimming, when John Bold's card was brought in by his tiger.  This tiger
never knew that his master was at home, though he often knew that he was not, and thus Tom
Towers was never invaded but by his own consent.  On this occasion, after twisting the card
twice in his fingers, he signified to his attendant imp that he was visible; and the inner
door was unbolted, and our friend announced.

I have before said that he of The Jupiter and John Bold were intimate.  There was no very great
difference in their ages, for Towers was still considerably under forty; and when Bold had
been attending the London hospitals, Towers, who was not then the great man that he had since
become, had been much with him.  Then they had often discussed together the objects of their
ambition and future prospects; then Tom Towers was struggling hard to maintain himself, as
a briefless barrister, by shorthand reporting for any of the papers that would engage him;
then he had not dared to dream of writing leaders for The Jupiter, or canvassing the conduct
of Cabinet ministers. Things had altered since that time: the briefless barrister was still
briefless, but he now despised briefs: could he have been sure of a judge's seat, he would
hardly have left his present career.  It is true he wore no ermine, bore no outward marks of
a world's respect; but with what a load of inward importance was he charged!  It is true his
name appeared in no large capitals; on no wall was chalked up "Tom Towers for ever;"--"Freedom
of the Press and Tom Towers;" but what member of Parliament had half his power?  It is true
that in far-off provinces men did not talk daily of Tom Towers but they read The Jupiter, and
acknowledged that without The Jupiter life was not worth having.  This kind of hidden but still
conscious glory suited the nature of the man.  He loved to sit silent in a corner of his club
and listen to the loud chattering of politicians, and to think how they all were in his power;--how
he could smite the loudest of them, were it worth his while to raise his pen for such a purpose.
He loved to watch the great men of whom he daily wrote, and flatter himself that he was greater
than any of them.  Each of them was responsible to his country, each of them must answer if
inquired into, each of them must endure abuse with good humour, and insolence without anger.
But to whom was he, Tom Towers, responsible?  No one could insult him; no one could inquire
into him.  He could speak out withering words, and no one could answer him: ministers courted
him, though perhaps they knew not his name; bishops feared him; judges doubted their own verdicts
unless he confirmed them; and generals, in their councils of war, did not consider more deeply
what the enemy would do, than what The Jupiter would say. Tom Towers never boasted of The Jupiter;
he scarcely ever named the paper even to the most intimate of his friends; he did not even
wish to be spoken of as connected with it; but he did not the less value his privileges, or
think the less of his own importance.  It is probable that Tom Towers considered himself the
most powerful man in Europe; and so he walked on from day to day, studiously striving to look
a man, but knowing within his breast that he was a god.

Chapter XV

TOM TOWERS, DR ANTICANT, AND MR SENTIMENT

"Ah, Bold! how are you?  You haven't breakfasted?"

"Oh yes, hours ago.  And how are you?"

When one Esquimau meets another, do the two, as an invariable rule, ask after each other's
health? is it inherent in all human nature to make this obliging inquiry?  Did any reader of
this tale ever meet any friend or acquaintance without asking some such question, and did anyone
ever listen to the reply?  Sometimes a studiously courteous questioner will show so much thought
in the matter as to answer it himself, by declaring that had he looked at you he needn't have
asked; meaning thereby to signify that you are an absolute personification of health: but such
persons are only those who premeditate small effects.

"I suppose you're busy?" inquired Bold.

"Why, yes, rather;--or I should say rather not.  If I have a leisure hour in the day, this is it."

"I want to ask you if you can oblige me in a certain matter."

Towers understood in a moment, from the tone of his friend's voice, that the certain matter
referred to the newspaper.  He smiled, and nodded his head, but made no promise.

"You know this lawsuit that I've been engaged in," said Bold.

Tom Towers intimated that he was aware of the action which was pending about the hospital.

"Well, I've abandoned it."

Tom Towers merely raised his eyebrows, thrust his hands into his trowsers pockets, and waited
for his friend to proceed.

"Yes, I've given it up.  I needn't trouble you with all the history; but the fact is that the
conduct of Mr Harding--Mr Harding is the--"

"Oh yes, the master of the place; the man who takes all the money and does nothing," said Tom
Towers, interrupting him.

"Well, I don't know about that; but his conduct in the matter has been so excellent, so little
selfish, so open, that I cannot proceed in the matter to his detriment."  Bold's heart misgave
him as to Eleanor as he said this; and yet he felt that what he said was not untrue.  "I think
nothing should now be done till the wardenship be vacant."

"And be again filled," said Towers, "as it certainly would, before anyone heard of the vacancy;
and the same objection would again exist. It's an old story, that of the vested rights of the
incumbent; but suppose the incumbent has only a vested wrong, and that the poor of the town
have a vested right, if they only knew how to get at it: is not that something the case here?"

Bold couldn't deny it, but thought it was one of those cases which required a good deal of
management before any real good could be done. It was a pity that he had not considered this
before he crept into the lion's mouth, in the shape of an attorney's office.

"It will cost you a good deal, I fear," said Towers.

"A few hundreds," said Bold--"perhaps three hundred; I can't help that, and am prepared for it."

"That's philosophical.  It's quite refreshing to hear a man talking of his hundreds in so purely
indifferent a manner.  But I'm sorry you are giving the matter up.  It injures a man to commence
a thing of this kind, and not carry it through.  Have you seen that?" and he threw a small
pamphlet across the table, which was all but damp from the press.

Bold had not seen it nor heard of it; but he was well acquainted with the author of it,--a
gentleman whose pamphlets, condemnatory of all things in these modern days, had been a good
deal talked about of late.

Dr Pessimist Anticant was a Scotchman, who had passed a great portion of his early days in
Germany; he had studied there with much effect, and had learnt to look with German subtilty
into the root of things, and to examine for himself their intrinsic worth and worthlessness.
No man ever resolved more bravely than he to accept as good nothing that was evil; to banish
from him as evil nothing that was good.  'Tis a pity that he should not have recognised the
fact, that in this world no good is unalloyed, and that there is but little evil that has not
in it some seed of what is goodly.

Returning from Germany, he had astonished the reading public by the vigour of his thoughts,
put forth in the quaintest language.  He cannot write English, said the critics.  No matter,
said the public; we can read what he does write, and that without yawning.  And so Dr Pessimist
Anticant became popular.  Popularity spoilt him for all further real use, as it has done many
another.  While, with some diffidence, he confined his objurgations to the occasional follies
or shortcomings of mankind; while he ridiculed the energy of the squire devoted to the slaughter
of partridges, or the mistake of some noble patron who turned a poet into a gauger of beer-barrels,
it was all well; we were glad to be told our faults and to look forward to the coming millennium,
when all men, having sufficiently studied the works of Dr Anticant, would become truthful and
energetic.  But the doctor mistook the signs of the times and the minds of men, instituted
himself censor of things in general, and began the great task of reprobating everything and
everybody, without further promise of any millennium at all.  This was not so well; and, to
tell the truth, our author did not succeed in his undertaking.  His theories were all beautiful,
and the code of morals that he taught us certainly an improvement on the practices of the age.
We all of us could, and many of us did, learn much from the doctor while he chose to remain
vague, mysterious, and cloudy: but when he became practical, the charm was gone.

His allusion to the poet and the partridges was received very well. "Oh, my poor brother,"
said he, "slaughtered partridges a score of brace to each gun, and poets gauging ale-barrels,
with sixty pounds a year, at Dumfries, are not the signs of a great era!--perhaps of the smallest
possible era yet written of.  Whatever economies we pursue, political or other, let us see
at once that this is the maddest of the uneconomic: partridges killed by our land magnates
at, shall we say, a guinea a head, to be retailed in Leadenhall at one shilling and ninepence,
with one poacher in limbo for every fifty birds! our poet, maker, creator, gauging ale, and
that badly, with no leisure for making or creating, only a little leisure for drinking, and
such like beer-barrel avocations!  Truly, a cutting of blocks with fine razors while we scrape
our chins so uncomfortably with rusty knives!  Oh, my political economist, master of supply
and demand, division of labour and high pressure--oh, my loud-speaking friend, tell me, if
so much be in you, what is the demand for poets in these kingdoms of Queen Victoria, and what
the vouchsafed supply?"

This was all very well: this gave us some hope.  We might do better with our next poet, when
we got one; and though the partridges might not be abandoned, something could perhaps be done
as to the poachers. We were unwilling, however, to take lessons in politics from so misty a
professor; and when he came to tell us that the heroes of Westminster were naught, we began
to think that he had written enough. His attack upon despatch boxes was not thought to have
much in it; but as it is short, the doctor shall again be allowed to speak his sentiments.

   Could utmost ingenuity in the management of red tape avail
   anything to men lying gasping,--we may say, all but dead;
   could despatch boxes with never-so-much velvet lining and
   Chubb's patent be of comfort to a people in extremis, I
   also, with so many others, would, with parched tongue, call
   on the name of Lord John Russell; or, my brother, at your
   advice, on Lord Aberdeen; or, my cousin, on Lord Derby, at
   yours; being, with my parched tongue, indifferent to such
   matters.  'Tis all one.  Oh, Derby!  Oh, Gladstone!  Oh,
   Palmerston!  Oh, Lord John!  Each comes running with serene
   face and despatch box.  Vain physicians! though there were
   hosts of such, no despatch box will cure this disorder!
   What! are there other doctors' new names, disciples who
   have not burdened their souls with tape?  Well, let us call
   again.  Oh, Disraeli, great oppositionist, man of the bitter
   brow! or, Oh, Molesworth, great reformer, thou who promisest
   Utopia.  They come; each with that serene face, and each,--
   alas, me! alas, my country!--each with a despatch box!

   Oh, the serenity of Downing Street!

   My brothers, when hope was over on the battle-field, when no
   dimmest chance of victory remained, the ancient Roman could
   hide his face within his toga, and die gracefully.  Can you
   and I do so now?  If so, 'twere best for us; if not, oh my
   brothers, we must die disgracefully, for hope of life and
   victory I see none left to us in this world below.  I for
   one cannot trust much to serene face and despatch box!

There might be truth in this, there might be depth of reasoning; but Englishmen did not see
enough in the argument to induce them to withdraw their confidence from the present arrangements
of the government, and Dr Anticant's monthly pamphlet on the decay of the world did not receive
so much attention as his earlier works.  He did not confine himself to politics in these publications,
but roamed at large over all matters of public interest, and found everything bad. According
to him nobody was true, and not only nobody, but nothing; a man could not take off his hat
to a lady without telling a lie;--the lady would lie again in smiling.  The ruffles of the
gentleman's shirt would be fraught with deceit, and the lady's flounces full of falsehood.
Was ever anything more severe than that attack of his on chip bonnets, or the anathemas with
which he endeavoured to dust the powder out of the bishops' wigs?

The pamphlet which Tom Towers now pushed across the table was entitled "Modern Charity," and
was written with the view of proving how much in the way of charity was done by our predecessors,--how
little by the present age; and it ended by a comparison between ancient and modern times, very
little to the credit of the latter.

"Look at this," said Towers, getting up and turning over the pages of the pamphlet, and pointing
to a passage near the end.  "Your friend the warden, who is so little selfish, won't like that,
I fear."  Bold read as follows--

   Heavens, what a sight!  Let us with eyes wide open see the
   godly man of four centuries since, the man of the dark ages;
   let us see how he does his godlike work, and, again, how the
   godly man of these latter days does his.

   Shall we say that the former is one walking painfully
   through the world, regarding, as a prudent man, his worldly
   work, prospering in it as a diligent man will prosper, but
   always with an eye to that better treasure to which thieves
   do not creep in?  Is there not much nobility in that old
   man, as, leaning on his oaken staff, he walks down the High
   Street of his native town, and receives from all courteous
   salutation and acknowledgment of his worth?  A noble old
   man, my august inhabitants of Belgrave Square and such like
   vicinity,--a very noble old man, though employed no better
   than in the wholesale carding of wool.

   This carding of wool, however, did in those days bring with
   it much profit, so that our ancient friend, when dying,
   was declared, in whatever slang then prevailed, to cut up
   exceeding well.  For sons and daughters there was ample
   sustenance with assistance of due industry; for friends and
   relatives some relief for grief at this great loss; for aged
   dependents comfort in declining years.  This was much for
   one old man to get done in that dark fifteenth century.  But
   this was not all: coming generations of poor wool-carders
   should bless the name of this rich one; and a hospital
   should be founded and endowed with his wealth for the
   feeding of such of the trade as could not, by diligent
   carding, any longer duly feed themselves.

   'Twas thus that an old man in the fifteenth century did his
   godlike work to the best of his power, and not ignobly, as
   appears to me.

   We will now take our godly man of latter days.  He shall no
   longer be a wool-carder, for such are not now men of mark.
   We will suppose him to be one of the best of the good, one
   who has lacked no opportunities.  Our old friend was, after
   all, but illiterate; our modern friend shall be a man
   educated in all seemly knowledge; he shall, in short, be
   that blessed being,--a clergyman of the Church of England!

   And now, in what perfectest manner does he in this lower
   world get his godlike work done and put out of hand?
   Heavens! in the strangest of manners.  Oh, my brother! in a
   manner not at all to be believed, but by the most minute
   testimony of eyesight.  He does it by the magnitude of his
   appetite,--by the power of his gorge; his only occupation is
   to swallow the bread prepared with so much anxious care for
   these impoverished carders of wool,--that, and to sing
   indifferently through his nose once in the week some psalm
   more or less long,--the shorter the better, we should be
   inclined to say.

   Oh, my civilised friends!--great Britons that never will be
   slaves, men advanced to infinite state of freedom and
   knowledge of good and evil;--tell me, will you, what
   becoming monument you will erect to an highly-educated
   clergyman of the Church of England?

Bold certainly thought that his friend would not like that: he could not conceive anything
that he would like less than this.  To what a world of toil and trouble had he, Bold, given
rise by his indiscreet attack upon the hospital!

"You see," said Towers, "that this affair has been much talked of, and the public are with
you.  I am sorry you should give the matter up. Have you seen the first number of 'The Almshouse'?"

No; Bold had not seen "The Almshouse."  He had seen advertisements of Mr Popular Sentiment's
new novel of that name, but had in no way connected it with Barchester Hospital, and had never
thought a moment on the subject.

"It's a direct attack on the whole system," said Towers.  "It'll go a long way to put down
Rochester, and Barchester, and Dulwich, and St Cross, and all such hotbeds of peculation. 
It's very clear that Sentiment has been down to Barchester, and got up the whole story there;
indeed, I thought he must have had it all from you; it's very well done, as you'll see: his
first numbers always are."

Bold declared that Mr Sentiment had got nothing from him, and that he was deeply grieved to
find that the case had become so notorious.

"The fire has gone too far to be quenched," said Towers; "the building must go now; and as
the timbers are all rotten, why, I should be inclined to say, the sooner the better.  I expected
to see you get some éclat in the matter."

This was all wormwood to Bold.  He had done enough to make his friend the warden miserable
for life, and had then backed out just when the success of his project was sufficient to make
the question one of real interest.  How weakly he had managed his business! he had already
done the harm, and then stayed his hand when the good which he had in view was to be commenced.
How delightful would it have been to have employed all his energy in such a cause,--to have
been backed by The Jupiter, and written up to by two of the most popular authors of the day!
The idea opened a view into the very world in which he wished to live.  To what might it not
have given rise? what delightful intimacies,--what public praise,--to what Athenian banquets
and rich flavour of Attic salt?

This, however, was now past hope.  He had pledged himself to abandon the cause; and could he
have forgotten the pledge, he had gone too far to retreat.  He was now, this moment, sitting
in Tom Towers' room with the object of deprecating any further articles in The Jupiter, and,
greatly as he disliked the job, his petition to that effect must be made.

"I couldn't continue it," said he, "because I found I was in the wrong."

Tom Towers shrugged his shoulders.  How could a successful man be in the wrong!  "In that case,"
said he, "of course you must abandon it."

"And I called this morning to ask you also to abandon it," said Bold.

"To ask me," said Tom Towers, with the most placid of smiles, and a consummate look of gentle
surprise, as though Tom Towers was well aware that he of all men was the last to meddle in
such matters.

"Yes," said Bold, almost trembling with hesitation.  "The Jupiter, you know, has taken the
matter up very strongly.  Mr Harding has felt what it has said deeply; and I thought that if
I could explain to you that he personally has not been to blame, these articles might be discontinued."

How calmly impassive was Tom Towers' face, as this innocent little proposition was made!  Had
Bold addressed himself to the doorposts in Mount Olympus, they would have shown as much outward
sign of assent or dissent.  His quiescence was quite admirable; his discretion certainly more
than human.

"My dear fellow," said he, when Bold had quite done speaking, "I really cannot answer for The
Jupiter."

"But if you saw that these articles were unjust, I think that You would endeavour to put a
stop to them.  Of course nobody doubts that you could, if you chose."

"Nobody and everybody are always very kind, but unfortunately are generally very wrong."

"Come, come, Towers," said Bold, plucking up his courage, and remembering that for Eleanor's
sake he was bound to make his best exertion; "I have no doubt in my own mind but that you wrote
the articles yourself, and very well written they were: it will be a great favour if you will
in future abstain from any personal allusion to poor Harding."

"My dear Bold," said Tom Towers, "I have a sincere regard for you. I have known you for many
years, and value your friendship; I hope you will let me explain to you, without offence, that
none who are connected with the public press can with propriety listen to interference."

"Interference!" said Bold, "I don't want to interfere."

"Ah, but, my dear fellow, you do; what else is it?  You think that I am able to keep certain
remarks out of a newspaper.  Your information is probably incorrect, as most public gossip
on such subjects is; but, at any rate, you think I have such power, and you ask me to use it:
now that is interference."

"Well, if you choose to call it so."

"And now suppose for a moment that I had this power, and used it as you wish: isn't it clear
that it would be a great abuse?  Certain men are employed in writing for the public press;
and if they are induced either to write or to abstain from writing by private motives, surely
the public press would soon be of little value.  Look at the recognised worth of different
newspapers, and see if it does not mainly depend on the assurance which the public feel that
such a paper is, or is not, independent.  You alluded to The Jupiter: surely you cannot but
see that the weight of The Jupiter is too great to be moved by any private request, even though
it should be made to a much more influential person than myself: you've only to think of this,
and you'll see that I am right."

The discretion of Tom Towers was boundless: there was no contradicting what he said, no arguing
against such propositions.  He took such high ground that there was no getting on to it.  "The
public is defrauded," said he, "whenever private considerations are allowed to have weight."
Quite true, thou greatest oracle of the middle of the nineteenth century, thou sententious
proclaimer of the purity of the press;--the public is defrauded when it is purposely misled.
Poor public! how often is it misled! against what a world of fraud has it to contend!

Bold took his leave, and got out of the room as quickly as he could, inwardly denouncing his
friend Tom Towers as a prig and a humbug.  "I know he wrote those articles," said Bold to himself.
"I know he got his information from me.  He was ready enough to take my word for gospel when
it suited his own views, and to set Mr Harding up before the public as an impostor on no other
testimony than my chance conversation; but when I offer him real evidence opposed to his own
views, he tells me that private motives are detrimental to public justice!  Confound his arrogance!
What is any public question but a conglomeration of private interests?  What is any newspaper
article but an expression of the views taken by one side?  Truth! it takes an age to ascertain
the truth of any question!  The idea of Tom Towers talking of public motives and purity of
purpose!  Why, it wouldn't give him a moment's uneasiness to change his politics to-morrow,
if the paper required it."

Such were John Bold's inward exclamations as he made his way out of the quiet labyrinth of
the Temple; and yet there was no position of worldly power so coveted in Bold's ambition as
that held by the man of whom he was thinking.  It was the impregnability of the place which
made Bold so angry with the possessor of it, and it was the same quality which made it appear
so desirable.

Passing into the Strand, he saw in a bookseller's window an announcement of the first number
of "The Almshouse;" so he purchased a copy, and hurrying back to his lodgings, proceeded to
ascertain what Mr Popular Sentiment had to say to the public on the subject which had lately
occupied so much of his own attention.

In former times great objects were attained by great work. When evils were to be reformed,
reformers set about their heavy task with grave decorum and laborious argument.  An age was
occupied in proving a grievance, and philosophical researches were printed in folio pages,
which it took a life to write, and an eternity to read.  We get on now with a lighter step,
and quicker: ridicule is found to be more convincing than argument, imaginary agonies touch
more than true sorrows, and monthly novels convince, when learned quartos fail to do so.  If
the world is to be set right, the work will be done by shilling numbers.

Of all such reformers Mr Sentiment is the most powerful.  It is incredible the number of evil
practices he has put down: it is to be feared he will soon lack subjects, and that when he
has made the working classes comfortable, and got bitter beer put into proper-sized pint bottles,
there will be nothing further for him left to do.  Mr Sentiment is certainly a very powerful
man, and perhaps not the less so that his good poor people are so very good; his hard rich
people so very hard; and the genuinely honest so very honest.  Namby-pamby in these days is
not thrown away if it be introduced in the proper quarters.  Divine peeresses are no longer
interesting, though possessed of every virtue; but a pattern peasant or an immaculate manufacturing
hero may talk as much twaddle as one of Mrs Ratcliffe's heroines, and still be listened to.
Perhaps, however, Mr Sentiment's great attraction is in his second-rate characters.  If his
heroes and heroines walk upon stilts, as heroes and heroines, I fear, ever must, their attendant
satellites are as natural as though one met them in the street: they walk and talk like men
and women, and live among our friends a rattling, lively life; yes, live, and will live till
the names of their calling shall be forgotten in their own, and Buckett and Mrs Gamp will be
the only words left to us to signify a detective police officer or a monthly nurse.

"The Almshouse" opened with a scene in a clergyman's house. Every luxury to be purchased by
wealth was described as being there: all the appearances of household indulgence generally
found amongst the most self-indulgent of the rich were crowded into this abode.  Here the reader
was introduced to the demon of the book, the Mephistopheles of the drama.  What story was ever
written without a demon?  What novel, what history, what work of any sort, what world, would
be perfect without existing principles both of good and evil?  The demon of "The Almshouse"
was the clerical owner of this comfortable abode.  He was a man well stricken in years, but
still strong to do evil: he was one who looked cruelly out of a hot, passionate, bloodshot
eye; who had a huge red nose with a carbuncle, thick lips, and a great double, flabby chin,
which swelled out into solid substance, like a turkey-cock's comb, when sudden anger inspired
him: he had a hot, furrowed, low brow, from which a few grizzled hairs were not yet rubbed
off by the friction of his handkerchief: he wore a loose unstarched white handkerchief, black
loose ill-made clothes, and huge loose shoes, adapted to many corns and various bunions: his
husky voice told tales of much daily port wine, and his language was not so decorous as became
a clergyman.  Such was the master of Mr Sentiment's "Almshouse."  He was a widower, but at
present accompanied by two daughters, and a thin and somewhat insipid curate.  One of the young
ladies was devoted to her father and the fashionable world, and she of course was the favourite;
the other was equally addicted to Puseyism and the curate.

The second chapter of course introduced the reader to the more especial inmates of the hospital.
Here were discovered eight old men; and it was given to be understood that four vacancies remained
unfilled, through the perverse ill-nature of the clerical gentleman with the double chin. 
The state of these eight paupers was touchingly dreadful: sixpence-farthing a day had been
sufficient for their diet when the almshouse was founded; and on sixpence-farthing a day were
they still doomed to starve, though food was four times as dear, and money four times as plentiful.
It was shocking to find how the conversation of these eight starved old men in their dormitory
shamed that of the clergyman's family in his rich drawing-room.  The absolute words they uttered
were not perhaps spoken in the purest English, and it might be difficult to distinguish from
their dialect to what part of the country they belonged; the beauty of the sentiment, however,
amply atoned for the imperfection of the language; and it was really a pity that these eight
old men could not be sent through the country as moral missionaries, instead of being immured
and starved in that wretched almshouse.

Bold finished the number; and as he threw it aside, he thought that that at least had no direct
appliance to Mr Harding, and that the absurdly strong colouring of the picture would disenable
the work from doing either good or harm.  He was wrong.  The artist who paints for the million
must use glaring colours, as no one knew better than Mr Sentiment when he described the inhabitants
of his almshouse; and the radical reform which has now swept over such establishments has owed
more to the twenty numbers of Mr Sentiment's novel, than to all the true complaints which have
escaped from the public for the last half century.

Chapter XVI

A LONG DAY IN LONDON

The warden had to make use of all his very moderate powers of intrigue to give his son-in-law
the slip, and get out of Barchester without being stopped on his road.  No schoolboy ever ran
away from school with more precaution and more dread of detection; no convict, slipping down
from a prison wall, ever feared to see the gaoler more entirely than Mr Harding did to see
his son-in-law as he drove up in the pony carriage to the railway station, on the morning of
his escape to London.

The evening before he went he wrote a note to the archdeacon, explaining that he should start
on the morrow on his journey; that it was his intention to see the attorney-general if possible,
and to decide on his future plans in accordance with what he heard from that gentleman; he
excused himself for giving Dr Grantly no earlier notice, by stating that his resolve was very
sudden; and having entrusted this note to Eleanor, with the perfect, though not expressed,
understanding that it was to be sent over to Plumstead Episcopi without haste, he took his
departure.

He also prepared and carried with him a note for Sir Abraham Haphazard, in which he stated
his name, explaining that he was the defendant in the case of "The Queen on behalf of the Wool-carders
of Barchester v. Trustees under the will of the late John Hiram," for so was the suit denominated,
and begged the illustrious and learned gentleman to vouchsafe to him ten minutes' audience
at any hour on the next day.  Mr Harding calculated that for that one day he was safe; his
son-in-law, he had no doubt, would arrive in town by an early train, but not early enough to
reach the truant till he should have escaped from his hotel after breakfast; and could he thus
manage to see the lawyer on that very day, the deed might be done before the archdeacon could
interfere.

On his arrival in town the warden drove, as was his wont, to the Chapter Hotel and Coffee House,
near St Paul's.  His visits to London of late had not been frequent; but in those happy days
when "Harding's Church Music" was going through the press, he had been often there; and as
the publisher's house was in Paternoster Row, and the printer's press in Fleet Street, the
Chapter Hotel and Coffee House had been convenient.  It was a quiet, sombre, clerical house,
beseeming such a man as the warden, and thus he afterwards frequented it.  Had he dared, he
would on this occasion have gone elsewhere to throw the archdeacon further off the scent; but
he did not know what violent steps his son-in-law might take for his recovery if he were not
found at his usual haunt, and he deemed it not prudent to make himself the object of a hunt
through London.

Arrived at his inn, he ordered dinner, and went forth to the attorney-general's chambers. 
There he learnt that Sir Abraham was in Court, and would not probably return that day.  He
would go direct from Court to the House; all appointments were, as a rule, made at the chambers;
the clerk could by no means promise an interview for the next day; was able, on the other hand,
to say that such interview was, he thought, impossible; but that Sir Abraham would certainly
be at the House in the course of the night, where an answer from himself might possibly be
elicited.

To the House Mr Harding went, and left his note, not finding Sir Abraham there.  He added a
most piteous entreaty that he might be favoured with an answer that evening, for which he would
return.  He then journeyed back sadly to the Chapter Coffee House, digesting his great thoughts,
as best he might, in a clattering omnibus, wedged in between a wet old lady and a journeyman
glazier returning from his work with his tools in his lap.  In melancholy solitude he discussed
his mutton chop and pint of port.  What is there in this world more melancholy than such a
dinner?  A dinner, though eaten alone, in a country hotel may be worthy of some energy; the
waiter, if you are known, will make much of you; the landlord will make you a bow and perhaps
put the fish on the table; if you ring you are attended to, and there is some life about it.
A dinner at a London eating-house is also lively enough, if it have no other attraction.  There
is plenty of noise and stir about it, and the rapid whirl of voices and rattle of dishes disperses
sadness.  But a solitary dinner in an old, respectable, sombre, solid London inn, where nothing
makes any noise but the old waiter's creaking shoes; where one plate slowly goes and another
slowly comes without a sound; where the two or three guests would as soon think of knocking
each other down as of speaking; where the servants whisper, and the whole household is disturbed
if an order be given above the voice,--what can be more melancholy than a mutton chop and a
pint of port in such a place?

Having gone through this Mr Harding got into another omnibus, and again returned to the House.
Yes, Sir Abraham was there, and was that moment on his legs, fighting eagerly for the hundred
and seventh clause of the Convent Custody Bill.  Mr Harding's note had been delivered to him;
and if Mr Harding would wait some two or three hours, Sir Abraham could be asked whether there
was any answer. The House was not full, and perhaps Mr Harding might get admittance into the
Strangers' Gallery, which admission, with the help of five shillings, Mr Harding was able to
effect.

This bill of Sir Abraham's had been read a second time and passed into committee.  A hundred
and six clauses had already been discussed and had occupied only four mornings and five evening
sittings; nine of the hundred and six clauses were passed, fifty-five were withdrawn by consent,
fourteen had been altered so as to mean the reverse of the original proposition, eleven had
been postponed for further consideration, and seventeen had been directly negatived.  The hundred
and seventh ordered the bodily searching of nuns for jesuitical symbols by aged clergymen,
and was considered to be the real mainstay of the whole bill.  No intention had ever existed
to pass such a law as that proposed, but the government did not intend to abandon it till their
object was fully attained by the discussion of this clause. It was known that it would be insisted
on with terrible vehemence by Protestant Irish members, and as vehemently denounced by the
Roman Catholic; and it was justly considered that no further union between the parties would
be possible after such a battle.  The innocent Irish fell into the trap as they always do,
and whiskey and poplins became a drug in the market.

A florid-faced gentleman with a nice head of hair, from the south of Ireland, had succeeded
in catching the speaker's eye by the time that Mr Harding had got into the gallery, and was
denouncing the proposed sacrilege, his whole face glowing with a fine theatrical frenzy.

"And this is a Christian country?" said he.  (Loud cheers; counter cheers from the ministerial
benches.  "Some doubt as to that," from a voice below the gangway.)  "No, it can be no Christian
country, in which the head of the bar, the lagal adviser (loud laughter and cheers)--yes, I
say the lagal adviser of the crown (great cheers and laughter)--can stand up in his seat in
this house (prolonged cheers and laughter), and attempt to lagalise indacent assaults on the
bodies of religious ladies."  (Deafening cheers and laughter, which were prolonged till the
honourable member resumed his seat.)

When Mr Harding had listened to this and much more of the same kind for about three hours,
he returned to the door of the House, and received back from the messenger his own note, with
the following words scrawled in pencil on the back of it: "To-morrow, 10 P.M.--my chambers.--A.
H."

He was so far successful;--but 10 P.M.: what an hour Sir Abraham had named for a legal interview!
Mr Harding felt perfectly sure that long before that Dr Grantly would be in London.  Dr Grantly
could not, however, know that this interview had been arranged, nor could he learn it unless
he managed to get hold of Sir Abraham before that hour; and as this was very improbable, Mr
Harding determined to start from his hotel early, merely leaving word that he should dine out,
and unless luck were much against him, he might still escape the archdeacon till his return
from the attorney-general's chambers.

He was at breakfast at nine, and for the twentieth time consulted his Bradshaw, to see at what
earliest hour Dr Grantly could arrive from Barchester.  As he examined the columns, he was
nearly petrified by the reflection that perhaps the archdeacon might come up by the night-mail
train!  His heart sank within him at the horrid idea, and for a moment he felt himself dragged
back to Barchester without accomplishing any portion of his object.  Then he remembered that
had Dr Grantly done so, he would have been in the hotel, looking for him long since.

"Waiter," said he, timidly.

The waiter approached, creaking in his shoes, but voiceless.

"Did any gentleman,--a clergyman, arrive here by the night-mail train?"

"No, sir, not one," whispered the waiter, putting his mouth nearly close to the warden's ear.

Mr Harding was reassured.

"Waiter," said he again, and the waiter again creaked up.  "If anyone calls for me, I am going
to dine out, and shall return about eleven o'clock."

The waiter nodded, but did not this time vouchsafe any reply; and Mr Harding, taking up his
hat, proceeded out to pass a long day in the best way he could, somewhere out of sight of the
archdeacon.

Bradshaw had told him twenty times that Dr Grantly could not be at Paddington station till
2 P.M., and our poor friend might therefore have trusted to the shelter of the hotel for some
hours longer with perfect safety; but he was nervous.  There was no knowing what steps the
archdeacon might take for his apprehension: a message by electric telegraph might desire the
landlord of the hotel to set a watch upon him; some letter might come which he might find himself
unable to disobey; at any rate, he could not feel himself secure in any place at which the
archdeacon could expect to find him; and at 10 A.M. he started forth to spend twelve hours
in London.

Mr Harding had friends in town had he chosen to seek them; but he felt that he was in no humour
for ordinary calls, and he did not now wish to consult with anyone as to the great step which
he had determined to take.  As he had said to his daughter, no one knows where the shoe pinches
but the wearer.  There are some points on which no man can be contented to follow the advice
of another,--some subjects on which a man can consult his own conscience only.  Our warden
had made up his mind that it was good for him at any cost to get rid of this grievance; his
daughter was the only person whose concurrence appeared necessary to him, and she did concur
with him most heartily.  Under such circumstances he would not, if he could help it, consult
anyone further, till advice would be useless.  Should the archdeacon catch him, indeed, there
would be much advice, and much consultation of a kind not to be avoided; but he hoped better
things; and as he felt that he could not now converse on indifferent subjects, he resolved
to see no one till after his interview with the attorney-general.

He determined to take sanctuary in Westminster Abbey, so he again went thither in an omnibus,
and finding that the doors were not open for morning service, he paid his twopence, and went
in as a sightseer. It occurred to him that he had no definite place of rest for the day, and
that he should be absolutely worn out before his interview if he attempted to walk about from
10 A.M. to 10 P.M., so he sat himself down on a stone step, and gazed up at the figure of William
Pitt, who looks as though he had just entered the church for the first time in his life and
was anything but pleased at finding himself there.

He had been sitting unmolested about twenty minutes when the verger asked him whether he wouldn't
like to walk round. Mr Harding didn't want to walk anywhere, and declined, merely observing
that he was waiting for the morning service.  The verger, seeing that he was a clergyman, told
him that the doors of the choir were now open, and showed him into a seat.  This was a great
point gained; the archdeacon would certainly not come to morning service at Westminster Abbey,
even though he were in London; and here the warden could rest quietly, and, when the time came,
duly say his prayers.

He longed to get up from his seat, and examine the music-books of the choristers, and the copy
of the litany from which the service was chanted, to see how far the little details at Westminster
corresponded with those at Barchester, and whether he thought his own voice would fill the
church well from the Westminster precentor's seat.  There would, however, be impropriety in
such meddling, and he sat perfectly still, looking up at the noble roof, and guarding against
the coming fatigues of the day.

By degrees two or three people entered; the very same damp old woman who had nearly obliterated
him in the omnibus, or some other just like her; a couple of young ladies with their veils
down, and gilt crosses conspicuous on their prayer-books; an old man on crutches; a party who
were seeing the abbey, and thought they might as well hear the service for their twopence,
as opportunity served; and a young woman with her prayer-book done up in her handkerchief,
who rushed in late, and, in her hurried entry, tumbled over one of the forms, and made such
a noise that everyone, even the officiating minor canon, was startled, and she herself was
so frightened by the echo of her own catastrophe that she was nearly thrown into fits by the panic.

Mr Harding was not much edified by the manner of the service.  The minor canon in question
hurried in, somewhat late, in a surplice not in the neatest order, and was followed by a dozen
choristers, who were also not as trim as they might have been: they all jostled into their
places with a quick hurried step, and the service was soon commenced. Soon commenced and soon
over,--for there was no music, and time was not unnecessarily lost in the chanting.  On the
whole Mr Harding was of opinion that things were managed better at Barchester, though even
there he knew that there was room for improvement.

It appears to us a question whether any clergyman can go through our church service with decorum,
morning after morning, in an immense building, surrounded by not more than a dozen listeners.
The best actors cannot act well before empty benches, and though there is, of course, a higher
motive in one case than the other, still even the best of clergymen cannot but be influenced
by their audience; and to expect that a duty should be well done under such circumstances,
would be to require from human nature more than human power.

When the two ladies with the gilt crosses, the old man with his crutch, and the still palpitating
housemaid were going, Mr Harding found himself obliged to go too.  The verger stood in his
way, and looked at him and looked at the door, and so he went.  But he returned again in a
few minutes, and re-entered with another twopence.  There was no other sanctuary so good for him.

