"I had this question referred to me the other day," he said. "A gambler--not a petty cheater
in cards, but a man who has a splendid establishment in which he has amassed a fortune, a man
known for his liberality and good-fellowship and his interest in politics--offered the president
of a leading college a hundred thousand dollars to endow a professorship. Ought the president
to take the money, knowing how it was made?"

"Wouldn't the money do good--as much good as any other hundred thousand dollars?" asked Margaret.

"Perhaps. But the professorship was to bear his name, and what would be the moral effect of that?"

"Did you recommend the president to take the money, if he could get it without using the gambler's
name?"

"I am not saying yet what I advised. I am trying to get your views on a general principle."

"But wouldn't it be a sneaking thing to take a man's money, and refuse him the credit of his
generosity?"

"But was it generosity? Was not his object, probably, to get a reputation which his whole life
belied, and to get it by obliterating the distinction between right and wrong?"

"But isn't it a compromising distinction," my wife asked, "to take his money without his name?
The president knows that it is money fraudulently got, that really belongs to somebody else;
and the gambler would feel that if the president takes it, he cannot think very disapprovingly
of the manner in which it was acquired. I think it would be more honest and straightforward
to take his name with the money."

"The public effect of connecting the gambler's name with the college would be debasing," said
Morgan; "but, on the contrary, is every charity or educational institution bound to scrutinize
the source of every benefaction? Isn't it better that money, however acquired, should be used
for a good purpose than a bad one?"

"That is a question," I said, "that is a vital one in our present situation, and the sophistry
of it puzzles the public. What would you say to this case? A man notoriously dishonest, but
within the law, and very rich, offered a princely endowment to a college very much in need
of it. The sum would have enabled it to do a great work in education. But it was intimated
that the man would expect, after a while, to be made one of the trustees. His object, of course,
was social position."

"I suppose, of course," Margaret replied, "that the college couldn't afford that. It would
look like bribery."

"Wouldn't he be satisfied with an LL.D.?" Morgan asked.

"I don't see," my wife said, "any difference between the two cases stated and that of the stock
gambler, whose unscrupulous operations have ruined thousands of people, who founds a theological
seminary with the gains of his slippery transactions. By accepting his seminary the public
condones his conduct. Another man, with the same shaky reputation, endows a college. Do you
think that religion and education are benefited in the long-run by this? It seems to me that
the public is gradually losing its power of discrimination between the value of honesty and
dishonesty. Real respect is gone when the public sees that a man is able to buy it."

This was a hot speech for my wife to make. For a moment Margaret flamed up under it with her
old-time indignation. I could see it in her eyes, and then she turned red and confused, and
at length said:

"But wouldn't you have rich men do good with their money?"

"Yes, dear, but I would not have them think they can blot out by their liberality the condemnation
of the means by which many of them make money. That is what they are doing, and the public
is getting used to it."

"Well," said Margaret, with some warmth, "I don't know that they are any worse than the stingy
saints who have made their money by saving, and act as if they expected to carry it with them."

"Saints or sinners, it does not make much difference to me," now put in Mrs. Fletcher, who
was evidently considering the question from a practical point of view, "what a man professes,
if he founds a hospital for indigent women out of the dividends that I never received."

Morgan laughed. "Don't you think, Mrs. Fletcher, that it is a good sign of the times, that
so many people who make money rapidly are disposed to use it philanthropically?"

"It may be for them, but it does not console me much just now."

"But you don't make allowance enough for the rich. Perhaps they are under a necessity of doing
something. I was reading this morning in the diary of old John Ward of Stratford-on-Avon this
sentence: 'It was a saying of Navisson, a lawyer, that no man could be valiant unless he hazarded
his body, nor rich unless he hazarded his soul.'"

"Was Navisson a modern lawyer?" I asked.

"No; the diary is dated 1648-1679."

"I thought so."

There was a little laugh at this, and the talk drifted off into a consideration of the kind
of conscience that enables a professional man to espouse a cause he knows to be wrong as zealously
as one he knows to be right; a talk that I should not have remembered at all, except for Margaret's
earnestness in insisting that she did not see how a lawyer could take up the dishonest side.

Before Margaret went to Lenox, Henderson spent a few days with us. He brought with him the
abounding cheerfulness, and the air of a prosperous, smiling world, that attended him in all
circumstances. And how happy Margaret was! They went over every foot of the ground on which
their brief courtship had taken place, and Heaven knows what joy there was to her in reviving
all the tenderness and all the fear of it! Busy as Henderson was, pursued by hourly telegrams
and letters, we could not but be gratified that his attention to her was that of a lover. How
could it be otherwise, when all the promise of the girl was realized in the bloom and the exquisite
susceptibility of the woman? Among other things, she dragged him down to her mission in the
city, to which he went in a laughing and bantering mood. When he had gone away, Margaret ran
over to my wife, bringing in her hand a slip of paper.

"See that!" she cried, her eyes dancing with pleasure. It was a check for a thousand dollars.
"That will refurnish the mission from top to bottom," she said, "and run it for a year."

"How generous he is!" cried my wife. Margaret did not reply, but she looked at the check, and
there were tears in her eyes.

XV

The Arbuser cottage at Lenox was really a magnificent villa. Richardson had built it. At a
distance it had the appearance of a mediaeval structure, with its low doorways, picturesque
gables, and steep roofs, and in its situation on a gentle swell of green turf backed by native
forest-trees it imparted to the landscape an ancestral tone which is much valued in these days.
But near to, it was seen to be mediaevalism adapted to the sunny hospitality of our summer
climate, with generous verandas and projecting balconies shaded by gay awnings, and within
spacious, open to the breezes, and from its broad windows offering views of lawns and flower-beds
and ornamental trees, of a great sweep of pastures and forests and miniature lakes, with graceful
and reposeful hills on the horizon.

It was, in short, the modern idea of country simplicity. The passion for country life, which
has been in decadence for nearly half a century, has again become the fashion. Nature, which,
left to itself, is a little ragged, not to say monotonous and tiresome, is discovered to be
a valuable ally for aid in passing the time when art is able to make portions of it exclusive.
What the Arbusers wanted was a simple home in the country, and in obtaining it they were indulging
a sentiment of returning to the primitive life of their father, who had come to the city from
a hill farm, and had been too busy all his life to recur to the tastes of his boyhood. At least
that was the theory of his daughters; but the old gentleman had a horror of his early life,
and could scarcely be dragged away from the city even in the summer. He would no doubt have
been astonished at the lofty and substantial stone stables, the long range of greenhouses,
and at a farm which produced nothing except lawns and flower-beds, ornamental fields of clover,
avenues of trees, lawn-tennis grounds, and a few Alderneys tethered to feed among the trees,
where their beauty would heighten the rural and domestic aspect of the scene. The Arbusers
liked to come to this place as early as possible to escape the society exactions of the city.
That was another theory of theirs. All their set in the city met there for the same purpose.

Margaret was welcomed with open arms.

"We have been counting the days," said the elder of the sisters. "Your luggage has come, your
rooms are all ready, and your coachman, who has been here some days, says that the horses need
exercise. Everybody is here, and we need you for a hundred things."

"You are very kind. It is so charming here. I knew it would be, but I couldn't bear to shorten
my visit in Brandon."

"Your aunt must miss you very much. Is she well?"

"Perfectly."

"Wouldn't she have come with you? I've a mind to telegraph."

"I think not. She is wedded to quiet, and goes away from her little neighborhood with reluctance."

"So Brandon was a little dull?" said Miss Arbuser, with a shrewd guess at the truth.

"Oh no," quickly replied Margaret, shrinking a little from what was in her own mind; "it was
restful and delightful; but you know that we New England people take life rather seriously,
and inquire into the reason of things, and want an object in life." From there, after holding always a long and erudite conference meet the horses,
with a theoretical and practical part, came out to walk her figure and deep knowledge of the
town, sometimes riding spirited horses, others in a charrette beautiful, Pablito guide, Pisces
to the fixed and absorbed in the loving contemplation of the backs of horses. Some also, to give
an example of humility, walking on own two legs.

Paul went to his family, writhing with laughter.

- What happened to you? - Dona Paula asked, smiling.

- We have followed a parakeet in the pot and you are hand in hand
with Ramona - said the youth, mouth close to her sister's ear Ventura.

-
Yeah ... What do you say? - Said it with great curiosity.

- As you
said ... (A flood of laughter interrupted him for a few moments).

Le said ... "Ramona, I love you. "

- Ave Maria! At a sardine! - Also said the girl laughing and crossing himself.

- If you saw how shaky voice he said it, and how to put eyes!

... Here is Pisces also heard ...

Pisces corroborating grunted.

At that time, Parakeet, which was a pale and sickly boy, with blue eyes and short and sparse beard,
appeared in the lunettes. The whole family looks nailed Belinchón laughing and mocking him. Especially
Paul and showed greatly elated Venturita in sight.

Budgie lifted his head and waved. The family said the greeting without Belinchón stop laughing.
Turned to lift her head two or three times and seeing those insistent smiles, was upset and left
the hall.

The curtain rose again. The decor represented caverns of hell, but it was not impossible that
someone believed that it was the hold of a ship. The event began a prelude to the orchestra,
led by Mr dignity Anselmo, a carpenter from the village. Saxhorns contained in it as Mr. Mathias,
the sexton, and Mr. Manolo (barber); Don Juan as the Salado clarinets (clerk of the City) and
Happy (carpenter); as tubal Mechacan (shoemaker) and Mr Romualdo (undertaker); as Pepe cornets
the Esguila (builder) and Maroto (serene); as Figl Mr. Benedict the
Rato (clerk a trading house and the church Figl).

There were four or five boys apprentices accompanying. Mr. Anselmo, instead of baton in his hand
to direct a huge shiny key, which was his workshop.

The prelude was very sad and afraid, as we were in hell. The audience kept absolute silence, anxiously
awaiting what would come out of there, staring at the open traps on the floor of the stage. Suddenly,
that gentle and mysterious music a trumpet out of tune.

Mr. Anselmo turned and looked Retribution the musician, who blushed
to the ears.

There was the strong public and prolonged murmur. Of the pan out then a voice shouted:

- Was the Esguila Pepe.

The public gaze turned to that workman, who became distracted by removing the of the cornet
mouthpiece and shaking, but was increasingly red.

- If you're not
playing that go to bed - the same voice shouted.

Then run and Pepe ashamed of Esguila suddenly flew into a rage, left
the instrument on the ground, and rising from the seat, his eyes alight
and waving their fists in front casserole, shouted:

- I'll fix as
we go, Barnacle!

- Chis, hush!

Hush, hush! "- Cried the public.

- What have you to fix, backpack! Go ahead and play the trumpet better.

- Hush, hush! What a scandal! - She cried the public.

And all eyes turned to the stage of the mayor.

He was a man of sixty, seventy years, under tall and very deep color, hair well preserved and completely
white, shaven cheeks, the Bourbon nose, eyes large, round and prominent.

It seemed a courtier of Louis XV or a big house coachman.

Don Roque, that was his name, turned in his seat and gave a voice.

- Marcones!

An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big
blue visor cap tray in hand.

Mayor conferred with him a few times.

Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young sailor suit, clutching his arm. Both
came the presidential box.

Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting it halfway. They heard of Occasionally
!»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of education" ... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures
that are in the tavern? "The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.

A voice shouted from the courtyard:

- A ride to jail.

But from the other pot instantly replied:

- It also carried the Esguila Pepe.

- Silence! Silence!

The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let
him come again Once your site, with great satisfaction the pot, which
was received with cheers and applause.

The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude.

Before it was over, started out by setting traps to a dozen devils
with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches in their
hands.

Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps,
were started, of course, a fantastic dance, it is well known of old
that can not be together four demons without giving the ball furiously.

Viewers followed his living with extreme curiosity and rhythmic movements.

A boy cried. The public forced his mother to do sacase.

But lo, with much coming and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very
large enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them. The poor devil without
realizing it, danced more and more infernal rapture. The audience laughed loudly waiting for
the next outcome of that incident. In fact, when he felt hot head more than necessary evil spirit,
was quick to pull the wig and mask, have revealed the face of Levita, where he painted the terror.

-
Levita! - Shouted the audience exhilarated.

The rogue had this nickname, deprived of their attributes hell, confused
and embarrassed withdrew from the scene.

Soon it ignited other wig. New murmurs and more anxious to see metempsychosis of that Angel
of Death. Was immediate. After a few minutes the wig and the mask flying through the air as on the
comet.

- Kill! - They shouted. A huge burst of laughter rang through the theater.

- Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the pot said.

Kill retired Levita embarrassed mate.

Still burned two or three wigs, putting to shame many other rogues
the street that served as extras in the theater.

The dance is over at last no more fires.

Once again buried in the underworld demons who had escaped from the burning, presented at the scene
of a dashing young man, on its own pastor, judging by Pellicer covered his back, and a beautiful
girl of the same profession.

Which, in the same point, following the old precept that obliges every pastor and every pastor
to be in love to appear elusive, the dialogue began, where complaints
and tender love laments it contrasted with her indifferent laugh.

Were happy and joyful all, like the quad than the pot, with the tasty
words had passed on the scene when the stage door he heard a loud
voice said:

- Don Rosendo, is entering the Bella-Paula.

The effect of this unexpected call came, it was inexplicable.

Because not only don Rosendo rises as a spring-driven and hastens
with a trembling hand into her coat to leave, but on the whole competition
a strong rumor spread accompanied by agitation alive that was about
to interrupt the pastoral dialogue.

Quad artisans lanzáronse continuous act to the street.

In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there.

And the seat boxes and also left many people. A few minutes were
not just in the theater more than women.

Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene.

His mother and sister while looking at her with smiling face.

-
Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.

And in saying this was strongly red.

Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.

II

HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA" PAULA "

The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront. Front, surrounded by
six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends went Don Rosendo,
silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of his companions,
who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue.

- Don Domingo is lucky,
comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring to the master
the Bella-Paula.

- What do you know if it now?

It may be funded from the afternoon - said another.

- Where?

- Where to be, sucker? in the shell - said the other raging.

- If you had been would, Uncle Michael.

- How you had to see, fool?

... Have you been in case in the rock Corvera?

- The flag of the Bella-Paula is above the rock, Uncle Michael.

- What flag or how bad lightning split you!

- What brings cargo, Don Rosendo? - He asked the owner one of his companions.

- Four million pounds.

- Scotland?

- No, all of Norway.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

Don Rosendo not answer.

After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying

- Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the Bella-Paula.

- I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack and going to
penetrate again in the village.

They arrived at the pier.

The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea. They left the old and tiny dock and
headed to the tip of the newly built Pawn progressed well over the
sea.

It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored.

Just be warned the dense network of your rig. The helmet appeared as a mass Black report.

The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until it
fell upon him. All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts
to warn the darkness of the ship.

The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally
bleached in the dark.

- Where is it? - Asked several of the theater
audience pulling eyes to see something.

- There.

- Where?

- Do
not you see here, left, a green light?

... Go on my hand.

- Ah, yes, I see!

Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas. This
was a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around
the neck like a bandage. He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this
way, because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn. But in the
sea ports, particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves,
the maritime element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without
realizing it, adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.

It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today,
seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and
open front. All his energy and decision announced figure.

Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses
sea ​​led to the little green light that shone intermittently yonder.

Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators.

-
Don Melchor, you are here now ... I send a message to his home.

-
An hour ago I came - "Monsieur de las Cuevas, separating goggles Face
.-- I have seen the boat from the balcony shortly after sunset.

-
I had to guess.

How will you escape had nothing to go out there?

- I have a better view when I was a lad of twenty years - said Don
Melchor with strong intonation and loud so I hear.

- I believe, I
believe, Don Melchor.

- A fifteen miles I turn a boat bonito.

-
I believe, I believe.

- And if you ask me a little - uttered more
loudly still, - I tell the ports to the frigates crossing for Ferrol.

-
Arius, lowered a bit, Don Melchor - said a voice.

There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas
deep crewmen.

The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had
left the wisecrack.

Esforzóse to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and
at length said hoarsely

- If I knew who you are, you will soon band
I lowered into the sea.

No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter. In Sarrió was known that
Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told. He had served in the Navy more than forty
years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but at the same time of a severity
bordering on barbarism.

When any ship commander remembered of our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined
to implement them and in all its rigor. We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor
spend three times under the keel, as prescribed by the ordinance
for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with sticks
or had lifted the skin with the whip.

Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor could have with
him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers
of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.

The little green light was approaching slowly.

Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two
or three black spots near it, which often changed site.

They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when it was necessary. As the wind just
blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails. No But he was too close to the wall for this
not constitute a hazard. Al Don Melchor less well understood, because he began to swear under
his breath and restless. Unable to resist, knowing that they had not heard, shouted:

- Grasp the topsails, Sunday. What are you waiting for?

He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of
packages almost imperceptible to the sailors.

- Just happened! -
Don Melchor said.

- Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the
sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.

The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft,
was highlighted finally with pure dark background.

The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what
was happening on board. On the bridge there were two packages, Captain
and the practical. In a bow, the pilot.

- What about the scandal?
- Don Melchor shouted again.

The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey
his voice fell. The boat continued drawing closer with increasing
pause. The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick
limp and faint like a prom dress used. And those were quickly lowered
gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly desperate towed by
two boats. The figures rose rhythmically rowers on the benches. And
the voice patterns shouting: - Hala ahead! Pull hard! - Brilliantly
broke the silence of the night.

But the Yanks were so weak in relation
to the mass, the ship hardly moved. When After a quarter of an hour
got about thirty fathoms near the tip of the Pawn took off one end,
one of the boats that brought the levee to help turn the corvette.

-
Captain, Captain! "- Shouted a loud voice from the group.

- What?
- Answered the ship.

- Do you come on board the Master of the Cave?

-
Yes.

- Eye For the Master of the Caves ... The others drown.

The
joke caused great uproar in the crowd. Silence reigned. The corvette
started in turn, supported on the ground after that creaked with stress.
People in the dock began talking to the board. But it showed silent,
taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the questions they were going.
Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.
The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed
a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side
to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts
of disdain for the crowd.

- Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like
eating a casserole of cod, right?

- Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider
Llandones Winery.

- It was hot in Norway?

- There you would like
to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle. It was all so rich and refined. Nor did she miss the men of military
age, whose absence Mrs. Laflamme had deplored, for she thought of her husband. And, besides,
she found even the college boys (who are always spoken of as men) amusing, and the elderly
gentlemen--upon whom watering-place society throws much responsibility--gallant, facetious,
complimentary, and active in whatever was afoot. Their boyishness, indeed, contrasted with--the
gravity of the undergraduates, who took themselves very seriously, were civil to the young
ladies,--confidential with the married women, and had generally a certain reserve and dignity
which belong to persons upon whom such heavy responsibility rests.

There were, to be sure, men who looked bored, and women who were listless, missing the stimulus
of any personal interest; but the scene was so animated, the weather so propitious, that, on
the whole, a person must be very cynical not to find the occasion delightful.

There was a young novelist present whose first story, "The Girl I Left Behind Me," had made
a hit the last season. It was thought to take a profound hold upon life, because it was a book
that could not be read aloud in a mixed company. Margaret was very much interested in him,
although Mr. Summers Bass was not her idea of an imaginative writer. He was a stout young gentleman,
with very black hair and small black eyes, to which it was difficult to give a melancholy cast
even by an habitual frown. Mr. Bass dressed himself scrupulously in the fashion, was very exact
in his pronunciation, careful about his manner, and had the air of a little weariness, of the
responsibility of one looking at life. It was only at rare moments that his face expressed
intensity of feeling.

"It is a very pretty scene. I suppose, Mr. Bass, that you are making studies," said Margaret,
by way of opening a conversation.

"No; hardly that. One must always observe. It gets to be a habit. The thing is to see reality
under appearances."

"Then you would call yourself a realist?"

Mr. Bass smiled. "That is a slang term, Mrs. Henderson. What you want is nature, color, passion--to
pierce the artificialities."

"But you must describe appearance."

"Certainly, to an extent--form, action, talk as it is, even trivialities--especially the trivialities,
for life is made up of the trivial."

"But suppose that does not interest me?"

"Pardon me, Mrs. Henderson, that is because you are used to the conventional, the selected.
Nature is always interesting."

"I do not find it so."

"No? Nature has been covered up; it has been idealized. Look yonder," and Mr. Bass pointed
across the lawn. "See that young woman upon whom the sunlight falls standing waiting her turn.
See the quivering of the eyelids, the heaving of the chest, the opening lips; note the curve
of her waist from the shoulder, and the line rounding into the fall of the folds of the Austrian
cashmere. I try to saturate myself with that form, to impress myself with her every attitude
and gesture, her color, her movement, and then I shall imagine the form under the influence
of passion. Every detail will tell. I do not find unimportant the tie of her shoe. The picture
will be life."

"But suppose, Mr. Bass, when you come to speak with her, you find that she has no ideas, and
talks slang."

"All the better. It shows what we are, what our society is. And besides, Mrs. Henderson, nearly
everybody has the capacity of being wicked; that is to say, of expressing emotion."

"You take a gloomy view, Mr. Bass."

"I take no view, Mrs. Henderson. My ambition is to record. It will not help matters by pretending
that people are better than they are."

"Well, Mr. Bass, you may be quite right, but I am not going to let you spoil my enjoyment of
this lovely scene," said Margaret, moving away. Mr. Bass watched her until she disappeared,
and then entered in his notebook a phrase for future use, "The prosperous propriety of a pretty
plutocrat." He was gathering materials for his forthcoming book, "The Last Sigh of the Prude."

The whole world knows how delightful Lenox is. It even has a club where the men can take refuge
from the exactions of society, as in the city. The town is old enough to have "histories";
there is a romance attached to nearly every estate, a tragedy of beauty, and money, and disappointment;
great writers have lived here, families whose names were connected with our early politics
and diplomacy; there is a tradition of a society of wit and letters, of women whose charms
were enhanced by a spice of adventure, of men whose social brilliancy ended in misanthropy.
All this gave a background of distinction to the present gayety, luxury, and adaptation of
the unsurpassed loveliness of nature to the refined fashion of the age.

Here, if anywhere, one could be above worry, above the passion of envy; for did not every new
"improvement" and every new refinement in living add to the importance of every member of this
favored community? For Margaret it was all a pageant of beauty. The Misses Arbuser talked about
the quality of the air, the variety of the scenery, the exhilaration of the drives, the freedom
from noise and dust, the country quiet. There were the morning calls, the intellectual life
of the reading clubs, the tennis parties, the afternoon teas, combined with charming drives
from one elegant place to another; the siestas, the idle swinging in hammocks, with the latest
magazine from which to get a topic for dinner, the mild excitement of a tete-a-tete which might
discover congenial tastes or run on into an interesting attachment. Half the charm of life,
says a philosopher, is in these personal experiments.

When Henderson came, as he did several times for a few days, Margaret's happiness was complete.
She basked in the sun of his easy enjoyment of life. She liked to take him about with her,
and see the welcome in all companies of a man so handsome, so natural and cordial, as her husband.
Especially aid she like the consideration in which he was evidently held at the club, where
the members gathered about him to listen to his racy talk and catch points about the market.
She liked to think that he was not a woman's man. He gave her his version of some recent transactions
that had been commented on in the newspapers, and she was indignant over the insinuations about
him. It was the price, he said, that everybody had to pay for success. Why shouldn't he, she
reflected, make money? Everybody would if they could, and no one knew how generous he was.
If she had been told that the family of Jerry Hollowell thought of him in the same way, she
would have said that there was a world-wide difference in the two men. You'll see that I'm also terrible as a squadron of cavalry charging to gallop on
the enemy.

Juanita, near Dona Ines, fascinated watching her cat eyes, which seemed
red light mixture of fire and blood.

Then he continued:

- What is the decency that I recommend that you not miss? Who recognizes that decorum born poor
like me, the daughter of a woman washing tripe and black pudding to win it their livelihood?
All despise me, treat me wrong and think worse of me. So far I have suffered; but I ran out
of suffering. I must be terrible if necessary.

In the same books you have made me read not only extols the servile gentleness of Ruth, but, if
possible, the ferocity of Judith, who slaughters the captain of the
Assyrians, and the frightening feat of Jahel, crossing with a hammer
and nail the temples of Sisera.

Noting that Mrs. Agnes Juanita a bit scared to see it and hear it
so savagely biblical continued smiling

- But do not worry not overtake
you.

He is not obliged to play in such extremes will not the river of blood. Although it will be severe
lesson I give, there will be a tragedy, and will in farce.

- But
what will you do, my child?

What frenzy is yours? - Dona Ines asked, deeply moved and loving.

- You'll see, if you want - said Juanita -.

Everything I have thought, but you must not know and not see it.

- How? Where?

- Come home with me. There are only a few minutes to get the appointment
time.

With give me the value your presence.

- That's another thing - said Dona Ines.

Doña Inés thought, no doubt, in time to taste that would have contributed to flick Don Alvaro,
which would come very proud of the appointment and she would be in his austere consort.

Indeed, if the launch went well, but tragedy would be farce.

Doña Inés lost her fear and felt the irresistible temptation to see the farce and even make
in him one of the leading roles.

- Okay, Juanita - said -. Go to your company and I'll lend you my assistance. Fine test I'll give
you my friendship with this, because I can also get involved.

-
Understand each other - said Juanita -.

I do not want your help. What merit would then my victory?

You do not undertake, because you will be hidden and nobody will know you've been in my house. Nor
will expose you to any accident, because you will see the bulls from
the scaffold.

- Yes ... but ... explain yourself, do not make me
go blind ..., explain yourself ....

- It will happen when.

Urge to go home. No time to give explanations, nor you the need.

Ea, despáchate.

Take a shawl, throw it better to face so you do not see it. The People walk entranced by the procession,
which probably ends at this moment, and will not repair or you or me.

And speaking of this sort, the same Juanita looked for a shawl, put it on the head Dona Ines and,
taking it ahead of himself, pushed her and made her walk.

Dona Ines dominated by that imperious creature, she got carried away.

Both came home in Juanita.

This, for Rafaela not see who entered his house accompanied someone
else opened the door with the key in his pocket.

The two women, quiet and toes, climbed to the upper room.

Missing and a few minutes to eight.

The bedroom where he slept Juanita
had no light except that entering through a round window, open on
the bedroom door that led out into the room. In this, and not in the
bedroom where there was room enough, washed, combed and dressed every
morning Juanita. In the bedroom there was little other furniture than
the bed, a nightstand, a closet for clothing and three chairs.

Juanita
Dona Ines was the bedroom.

- You, climb on a chair, that little window
you'll see what happens. Did not have some what to admire and laugh
about. 

That said, Juanita left the bedroom and left it prey Dona
Ines, closing suddenly the door and throwing out the key.

- What
are you doing? - Said Dona Ines -. What folly is yours? I enclose
Why?

Juanita replied, laughing:

- To make sure you locked your neutrality.
I do not want to ally, but to witness. Shut up and watch.

Doña Inés,
quite angry, replied yet:

- Abreme. Will I regret you trust me? What
mockery is this?

- Forgive me, forgive me - Juanita said with a pleading
voice and sweet -. You are my godmother, my protector and I do not
want nor should I tease you. At first there had been some reluctance about recognizing the Eschelles
fully, and there were still houses that exhibited a certain reserve towards them, but the example
of going to this house set by the legations, the members of which enjoyed a chat with Miss
Eschelle in the freedom of their own tongues and the freedom of her tongue, went far to break
down this barrier. They were spoken of occasionally as "those Eschelles," but almost everybody
went there, and perhaps enjoyed it all the more because there had been a shade of doubt about it.

Margaret's coming was a good card for Carmen. The little legend about her French ancestry in
Newport, and the romantic marriage in Rochambeau's time, had been elaborated in the local newspaper,
and when she appeared the ancestral flavor, coupled with the knowledge of Henderson's accumulating
millions, lent an interest and a certain charm to whatever she said and did. The Eschelle house
became more attractive than ever before, so much so that Mrs. Eschelle declared that she longed
for the quiet of Paris. To her motherly apprehension there was no result in this whirl of gayety,
no serious intention discoverable in any of the train that followed Carmen. "You act, child,"
she said, "as if youth would last forever."

Margaret entered into this life as if she had been born to it. Perhaps she was. Perhaps most
people never find the career for which they are fitted, and struggle along at cross-purposes
with themselves. We all thought that Margaret's natural bent was for some useful and self-sacrificing
work in the world, and never could have imagined that under any circumstances she would develop
into a woman of fashion.

"I intend to read a great deal this month," she said to Carmen on her arrival, as she glanced
at the litter of books.

"That was my intention," replied Carmen; "now we can read together. I'm taking Spanish lessons
of Count Crispo. I've learned two Spanish poems and a Castilian dance."

"Is he married?"

"Not now. He told me, when he was teaching me the steps, that his heart was buried in Seville."

"He seems to be full of sentiment."

"Perhaps that is because his salary is so small. Mamma says, of all things an impecunious count!
But he is amusing."

"But what do you care for money?" asked Margaret, by way of testing Carmen's motives.

"Nothing, my dear. But deliver me from a husband who is poor; he would certainly be a tyrant.
Besides, if I ever marry, it will be with an American."

"But suppose you fall in love with a poor man?"

"That would be against my principles. Never fall below your ideals--that is what I heard a
speaker say at the Town and Country Club, and that is my notion. There is no safety for you
if you lose your principles."

"That depends upon what they are," said Margaret, in the same bantering tone.

"That sounds like good Mr. Lyon. I suspect he thought I hadn't any. Mamma said I tried to shock
him; but he shocked me. Do you think you could live with such a man twenty-four hours, even
if he had his crown on?"

"I can imagine a great deal worse husbands than the Earl of Chisholm."

"Well, I haven't any imagination."

There was no reading that day nor the next. In the morning there was a drive with the ponies
through town, in the afternoon in the carriage by the sea, with a couple of receptions, the
five o'clock tea, with its chatter, and in the evening a dinner party for Margaret. One day
sufficed to launch her, and there-after Carmen had only admiration for the unflagging spirit
which Margaret displayed. "If you were only unmarried," she said, "what larks we could have!"
Margaret looked grave at this, but only for a moment, for she well knew that she could not
please her husband better than by enjoying the season to the full. He never criticised her
for taking the world as it is; and she confessed to herself that life went very pleasantly
in a house where there were never any questions raised about duties. The really serious thought
in Carmen's mind was that perhaps after all a woman had no real freedom until she was married.
And she began to be interested in Margaret's enjoyment of the world.

It was not, after all, a new world, only newly arranged, like another scene in the same play.
The actors, who came and went, were for the most part the acquaintances of the Washington winter,
and the callers and diners and opera-goers and charity managers of the city. In these days
Margaret was quite at home with the old set: the British Minister, the Belgian, the French,
the Spanish, the Mexican, the German, and the Italian, with their families and attaches--nothing
was wanting, not even the Chinese mandarin, who had rooms at the hotel, going about everywhere
in the conscientious discharge of his duties as ambassador to American society, a great favorite
on account of his silk apparel, which gave him the appearance of a clumsy woman, and the everlasting,
three-thousand-year-old smile on his broad face, punctiliously leaving in every house a big
flaring red piece of paper which the ladies pinned up for a decoration; a picture of helpless,
childlike enjoyment, and almost independent of the interpreter who followed him about, when
he had learned, upon being introduced to a lady, or taking a cup of tea, to say "good-by" as
distinctly as an articulating machine; a truly learned man, setting an example of civility
and perfect self-possession, but keenly observant of the oddities of the social life to which
his missionary government had accredited him. One would like to have heard the comments of
the minister and his suite upon our manners; but perhaps they were too polite to make any even
in their seclusion. 

But not everything is cakes and fancy bread in this vale of tears, and when I was more confident
Dona Feliciana that her husband thought of nothing but win pelucones, received a letter Ica
that the reported anonymously, with semi-colons, of how the Lord Messiah had its chichisbeo,
and how he spent the cake and eat it with the subject, and that the above was not worth an
icicle not reached the bottom of the shoe of Dona Feliciana, although it retained enough jamona
palatable and not worthy of the rogue of her husband hiciese squeamish. He said the chicken
of a tale: - Place egg and do not eat wheat, that's not me.

The anonymous bump up in the spirit of the lady, and got to think about infidelity Mr Mesia, and
so much buzzed in his soul the gadfly of jealousy, he decided to take flight, the neck to drop
you catch him in the perjury and gatuperio. But the case was to go in the time, to Ica spent
many days and ran many dangers, and the holds no could be closed or the mercy of a dependent, resolvióse
to sell, commission charged a Spanish called Vilches, who was her
friend and her man to be trusted.

At that time the transactions were very speedy, as it is unusual that many formulas, and before
forty-eight hours Dona Feliciana saw come through the doors of his
house some bags of a thousand.

Ms. Vilches gave one in return for their activity and Travel freed
from hindrances enlisted for three days later.

II

Dona Feliciana That night began their accounts and decided that God just daybreak, was deposit
their money and goods in the house of a merchant proverbial honesty. But his jealous ruminations
on the one hand, and secondly their calculations rentier, sleep it away, and it had no small fortune.

It
was about two o'clock, when cats and thieves, when he felt a slight, cautious sound of footsteps
in the backyard.

He listened and was convinced that a door that in his bedroom were not applying what technicality
of pharmacy, but of the children Caco, was then called a sucker. This experiment was open
through burning a hole in the wood.

Doña Feliciana promptly jumped out of bed, and a corner of the room took a pole or rod stick
to which a pointed end adapted rejoncillo iron.

This was the weapon that used to take the field all landowners.

Thus forewarned, our heroine is laid in ambush behind the door.

Just let the cup was expeditious a big hole, he looked out a head.

Doña Feliciana, who lives without giving him rejoncillo stabbed in the neck.

The thief gave a cry of death, and his companions set foot on the wall. Then Mrs. he cried, alborotóse
the neighborhood, went the round, and found dying universal surprise
the honest Vilches, who sang background and colleagues reported their
company.

III

All languages ​​were Dona Feliciana courage, and in Lima did not talk about something else.
Had there been newspapers, have set chronic loud bass drum on the local.

The fame of his exploit had preceded Ica, where he arrived one morning,
armed with spear and spear, and doomed to her husband told her:

-
A Lima, sir, and your home if you want to do another little person
in both I have done in the de Vilches, and leave it as not to serve
or radish seeds.

The Mesia trembled like quicksilver, he had saddled the mule and, without hesitation or mister,
obeyed precept.

Since then she wore pants in the house, and he was the most faithful
of husbands stories that mention the sacred and profane, as I knew
it was the fleece in the first trip where you get it madam.

Long story is to have a woman companion of horn and spear.

MAYOR'S ARGUMENTS

I

It seems that one morning he got Carlos III with mother's mood, and
frankly that there was reason embittering fed to the spirit of the
monarch.

His Majesty had dreamed that the royal coffers ran the risk of being as God loves the souls, ie
clean, because his subjects Americas walked one, if not to provide them slackers.

- Carrampempe! Well, I do not have to spend far as Henry the Sufferer that, attaching be king,
and the stiff, arrived day had no solid thing to put under their noses, and pawned his overcoat
for the cook could flavor a garlic soup and a piece of boar smoking. I called Don Jose Antonio.

And
Don Jose Antonio de Areche, Council of Indies and gentlemen of the distinguished Order Carlos
III, soon to appear before the King, and spoke with him at length about the atrenzos the royal
treasury.

And following the conversation between lord and vassal, we fell as rain in these kingdoms of Peru,
in 1777 and the title of Inspector-General, a soap opera of fines.

The visitor, soon come to Lima, he became convinced that the land was very rich and the committee
and tasty porridge. Item guessed it, without being a witch, that were tame genius Peruleros
and, therefore, likely to bear much saddle his lordship would to throw us in tow. And thought and
deed, and without beating about the algórgoras or brujoleos, we came
to the lump and ordered taxes, and tight, and rates and what not henpecked
husband.

God forgive me, but have that, in anticipation of a wonderful town these days, was given a jolt
of establish canine contribution, not excepting the dog it San Roque, nor to Santo Domingo, or the
San Lazaro, or the Santa Margarita, as I gather, were saints mutts fans.

But as the cord stretched out in the end, came the burst, and burst
and all hell broke tremendous.

The visitor was stubborn, did not relent and continued to follow
an inch and a guitar pins others.

And there was that of zambomba and slaughter, at gallows, and jicarazo,
which ... Go! we take by special care and God bless you have not eaten
bread in that mess century.

Finally the end, rogues taxes remained and, grunting and grumbling,
there's pay anyone taking law in their neck, no ambitions put in intimate
relationships with the executioner.

While so rusty maravedises us out to his majesty, he couched his lordship from search all employees
who were handling public funds and would find such clutter and gatuperio in the consideration
of some bills, which he planted in the cooler to worshipful characters responsible of them. It
is well known that listening to the disclaimers which gave him an employee, said Mr boring
of Areche:

- Do you know, Mr. alcabelero, I do not understand their bills?

- Not surprisingly, Mr. Inspector.

I do not understand them, and that the accounts are mine.

Boy, would walk the bloody mess!

Among the prisoners found ourselves a magistrate, who said he had
been more voracious chyle leech to get the people whose government
he was entrusted.

The cause between proofs, witnesses, cross-examination, appeals and other forensic batiborrillo
of the mob, had traces of fabric to suit for three generations at
least.

Our man resolved cut through the shortcut, doomed to the jailer asked him to let him go boldly
for a couple of hours, on parole back to prison before the expiration
of the fixed term.

The jailer thought that the word of honor is not reserved for committed,
as on this garment does not unleash a usurer's purse strings, and
said flatly that odd.

But dazzled by the brilliance of some pelucones, you carelessly and carefully put between
hands the prisoner, eventually soften and run bars and open bars.

II

It was seven in the evening. Stood the Lord visited in her living room, casting a hand sitting
with some friends, and finally have a real set with gold only cases,
fails and dwarf king, when he entered his butler and, calling him
aside, said:

- A gentleman wants to talk at the moment with his lordship.

-
Any unwelcome!

Come back tomorrow. Did not he say his name?

- No, sir, but gave me two ounces of gold for message passing, and as it was decent await answers
in the hall, I did enter the study room.

- And you say he has given two ounces of Alboroque! Well, it has to be something of importance
that brings to this subject.

And turning to his gatherings, he said:

- Excuse me, gentlemen, I shall soon return, and Don Narciso play
for me.

It's life which I have been very battered, and not give it to my worst enemy!

And Don José Antonio went to the study, which was located in the backyard. Sitting there there
a muffled that at present Areche, was discovered and said politely:

-
Good and holy nights.

- This is God's. Hello, hello, sir!

What has been released from jail without my permission?

- It did not, sir Visitor.

I gave my word, and I will comply, to return soon to prison.

- I guess what you is ... to talk, no doubt, of their cause.

- Precisely,
Mr. Inspector.

- For time lost, my friend.

I see you in a bad horse, and with heavy heart I have to be severe, that the king has sent me to
walk with softness and contemplations.

In your case there are documents and witnesses atrocities beyond
reproach and whose statements are sufficient envelopes to send to
the gallows ten neighbors of his caliber.

I am very straight, and given If I do not administer justice or with the mother who bore me.

-
Well, Mr. Inspector, against everything he says his lordship is grave in my process I possess
a thousand arguments compelling, yes, sir, a thousand arguments.

And it is best to be friends and we stop fighting, which only serve
to bring uneasiness, and to raise bad blood fat broth scribes and
Pharisees.

- Why, if you so confident to be out gracefully, has not
made use of its arguments?

And would like to see one to refute.

- If the Lord visited me and keep my anger has not the secret, which strictly speaking diréle
are my arguments.

- Speak clearly and as Christ teaches. Present myself one of its arguments, and keep nine hundred ninety-nine,
which left no time or opportunity is there for it take care of them.

Then the sheriff put his hand in his pocket, and between the thumb
and the index took an ounce of gold.

- Do you see your honor this
argument?

- This is a pelucon, Mr. mayor!

- For a thousand arguments
of its kind I have ready to cut the process.

And good night, Mr. Inspector, that the hours fly and the word is the word.

And step between step, the mayor took the road to prison.

As the lord of Areche refer that back cogitabundo to take his seat
at the table triplet, which all night long did not play in order,
and that for the first time in his life, he committed two resignations,
clear evidence of the concern of his mind.

III

What demonche! I'm not cursing, but in the story are facts that bring to a crazy.

And proof that Don Jose Antonio de Areche did not play very clean,
they say, the performance of the committee that the King entrusted
him with, is that, despite everything, his majesty was forced to dismiss
him, calling him to Spain, confiscating the property, and sentenced
him to live exiled from the village and court of Madrid.

The day after the interview with the visitor, was released and dismissed the prisoner in the
case.

And keep your faith in the incorruptibility of justice!

I mean, if the boys would smoke a pipe, sheriff's arguments!

THE GIRL'S CRAVINGS

Belief was widespread among our ancestors that pregnant women should indulge even in its most
extravagant whims. Opposing them was equivalent to ruin the work
done.

Y Galen's disciples were the major contributors to invigorate this view, if we give credit to
many medical theses or dissertations, which printed in Lima in several years, can be found in Volume
XXIX Various Papers of the National Library.

His women are curious, and enough that they were forbidden to enter the cloisters Lean On all
walks convents. There was, therefore, in the last century to Lima would not travel from the cell
prior to the kitchen or abbess.

As soon as the family's daughter Eva was presented in an interesting,
little sisters, friends and even the maids were cast to fix agenda
for the month of pilgrimage to the monasteries.

And the best morning he appeared ten or twelve covered on the goal
of San Francisco, for example, and the most lively of them said, addressing
the lego porter

- Ave Maria pure!

- Conceived without sin.

What is offered, sisters?

- Let you go where the Rev. Father Superior and say that this girl, and sight is, is abultadita,
which has a fancy walking the convent, and that we come accompanied
by a job if it happens.

- But many a layman !...-- muttered under
his breath.

- We are all family: the good girl is his aunt carnal,
these two are her sisters in the face are known, these three gordinfloncitas
are your premiums by mother I and this borradita, nieces, Believe
it or not, the beyond, that black pork, is the mother who raised her,
this is your ...

- Enough, enough with the kindred, which is Larguita
- lego interrupted smiling.

Here the girl's fancy with a sigh, and who accompanied her said in
chorus:

- Jesus, my dear!

Do you feel anything? Prontito you go, brother, you get the license.

No tease and have a job here! Virgen de la Candelaria! Run you, man, you run!

And the goalkeeper was headed, step between steps, the guard cell, and five minutes after upper
back with the license, his paternity was not to antagonize the ogre insides desire pregnant.

-
You can put the girl's will with all the holy family.

And another lego assumed the duties of guide and Cicero

Of course, in many cases the stomach was sticking, that is, roll of cloth, but or guardian
or keeper could get to find out. For them it was vaulted belly passport in order.

And in the convents of friars went to the monasteries of nuns, and each returning visit home the girl
on the whim bearing flowers, cherries and apricots, scapulars and pills. The participating
comrades also of blessed bread.

And the procession in Lima lasted a month at least.

An archbishop, to stop the abuse and not daring to break away from usual provided that the capricious
Lima seek the license, not monastic authority, but of the curia, but as he had to spend on a
piece of paper stamped and signed application and return the next
day by the decree, started to decrease cravings.

His successor, Mr La Reguera, cut the root of the evil one no answer to the first round neighbor who
was with the effort.

- What if unfavorably, illustrious sir? - Insisted the candidate.

- That I do not understand, my dear, I'm no midwife, but archbishop.

And the good news is that there is a tradition that has aborted Lima not walk cloisters.

* * *

Among the manuscripts at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid, form
the collection of Matalinares, curious file documents relating to
America, there is one (notebook 3 º of Volume LXXVII) codex is just
an excerpt of a process that Peru gave reason the girl's whim.

Keeper of the Recoleta of Cajamarca was, for the years 1806, Fray
Fernando Jesus Arce, who, contrary to the archbishop and disciplinary
provision, given to allow the walk around Christian cloister to the
ground asked him the delicate ailment.

The authority was civil or did not do their reasons for seeking to heel, and armed process and fat.

Commissioner
General's father supported the father Arce, presenting, among other
arguments, the following that, in his view, was crucial and decisive:
- The conservation of the fetus is natural right and the precept of
positive law is closing, and the latter would not be considered charitable
exposing a woman to abortion.

Arce's father said to him was a matter of conscience consent to the whim feminine as once refused
to grant a license acontecióle that, three days, he presented the girl's fancy carrying the
fetus in a jar and blaming him for their misfortune. He added the father Arce that he had to
go another little soul in limbo, he was not with livers for an ugly pregnant woman cravings.

The
vicar foreign men was seen in a hurry to give his ruling, and requested
the opinion of Matalinares, who was the then prosecutor of the Audiencia
of Lima. Said Matalinares not the risk of the fetus, but corrupt and
considerations of convenience or privileges Apostolic for certain
persons of distinction, had tolerated the entry of women at close
of regular, and the cravings that was grid and concern. In short,
I ended view that it would prevent the father commissary general ordered
the guardian of the Recoleta pretext for any visits thereafter consented
to skirts, under the penalties designated by the Bull of Benedict
XV, promulgated in January 3, 1742.

The vicar, as authorized by relying
on opinion, ruled against the keeper, but this is not given by defeat,
and appealed to the bishop, who confirmed the decision.

Fray Fernando
Arce Jesus was headstrong, and said at first that they disregarded
the mandate come until the Pope himself, but his friend, the general
curator, got appease saying

- Reverend Father, better skill than
strength. For the question above all is self-love it will be safe
and not adhering to compliance.

Arce's father was thoughtful one
minute, and then sticking a slap on the forehead as who has been at
the crux of intricate matter, said:

- Cabalito! That's it!

And in
the act made formal renunciation of guardianship, and not for another
office with owl sending little souls in limbo.

THE GOOD FRIDAY Llorona

TRADITIONAL
ANTIQUE TABLE MANNERS

Existed in Lima, until fifty years ago, a women's
scribbled all pilongas to wrinkles and poor louse, whose office was
to whine and throw tears as chickpeas. What a bitch profession and
evil thing! What is unique is that every member was old as sin, ugly
as a gossip and quilted witches and hoodlums. In Spain dábanlas the
plañidoras name, but in these kingdoms of Peru are baptized with the
pain or crying.

"I saw it, and wondered who started it," Carmen replied, wrinkling her brows as if she had
been a good deal perplexed about it.

"I thought," said Henderson, with a smile, "that it ought to be explained to you."

"No," she said, reflectively; "you are liberal enough, goodness knows--too liberal--but you
are not a flat."

Henderson was in the habit of dropping in at the Eschelles' occasionally, when he wanted to
talk freely. He had no need to wear a mask with Carmen. Her moral sense was tolerant and elastic,
and feminine sympathy of this sort is a grateful cushion. She admired Henderson, without thinking
any too well of the world in general, and she admired him for the qualities that were most
conformable to his inclination. It was no case of hero-worship, to be sure, nor for tragedy;
but then what a satisfaction it must be to sweet Lady Macbeth, coiled up on her sofa, to feel
that the thane of Cawdor has some nerve!

The Hendersons had come back to Washington Square late in the autumn. It is a merciful provision
that one has an orderly and well-appointed home to return to from the fatigues of the country.
Margaret, at any rate, was a little tired with the multiform excitements of her summer, and
experienced a feeling of relief when she crossed her own threshold and entered into the freedom
and quiet of her home. She was able to shut the door there even against the solicitations of
nature and against the weariness of it also. How quiet it was in the square in those late autumn
days, and yet not lifeless by any means! Indeed, it seemed all the more a haven because the
roar of the great city environed it, and one could feel, without being disturbed by, the active
pulsation of human life. And then, if one has sentiment, is there anywhere that it is more
ministered to than in the city at the close of the year? The trees in the little park grow
red and yellow and brown, the leaves fall and swirl and drift in windrows by the paths, the
flower-beds flame forth in the last dying splendor of their color; the children, chasing each
other with hoop and ball about the walks, are more subdued than in the spring-time; the old
men, seeking now the benches where the sunshine falls, sit in dreamy reminiscence of the days
that are gone; the wandering minstrel of Italy turns the crank of his wailing machine, O! bella,
bella, as in the spring, but the notes seem to come from far off and to be full of memory rather
than of promise; and at early morning, or when the shadows lengthen at evening, the south wind
that stirs the trees has a salt smell, and sends a premonitory shiver of change to the fading
foliage. But how bright are the squares and the streets, for all this note of melancholy! Life
is to begin again.

But the social season opened languidly. It takes some time to recover from the invigoration
of the summer gayety--to pick up again the threads and weave them into that brilliant pattern,
which scarcely shows all its loveliness of combination and color before the weavers begin to
work in the subdued tints of Lent. How delightful it is to see this knitting and unraveling
of the social fabric year after year! and how untiring are the senders of the shuttles, the
dyers, the hatchelers, the spinners, the ever-busy makers and destroyers of the intricate web
we call society! After one campaign, must there not be time given to organize for another?
Who has fallen out, who are the new recruits, who are engaged, who will marry, who have separated,
who has lost his money? Before we can safely reorganize we must not only examine the hearts
but the stock-list. No matter how many brilliant alliances have been arranged, no matter how
many husbands and wives have drifted apart in the local whirlpools of the summer's current,
the season will be dull if Wall Street is torpid and discouraged. We cannot any of us, you
see, live to ourselves alone. Does not the preacher say that? And do we not all look about
us in the pews, when he thus moralizes, to see who has prospered? The B's have taken a back
seat, the C's have moved up nearer the pulpit. There is a reason for these things, my friends.

I am sorry to say that Margaret was usually obliged to go alone to the little church where
she said her prayers; for however restful her life might have been while that season was getting
under way, Henderson was involved in the most serious struggle of his life--a shameful kind
of conspiracy, Margaret told Carmen, against him. I have hinted at his annoyance in the courts.
Ever since September he had been pestered with injunctions, threatened with attachments. And
now December had come and Congress was in session; in the very first days an investigation
had been ordered into the land grants involved in the Southwestern operations. Uncle Jerry
was in Washington to explain matters there, and Henderson, with the ablest counsel in the city,
was fighting in the courts. The affair made a tremendous stir. Some of the bondholders of the
A. and B. happened to be men of prominence, and able to make a noise about their injury. As
several millions were involved in this one branch of the case--the suit of the bondholders--the
newspapers treated it with the consideration and dignity it deserved. It was a vast financial
operation, some said, scathingly, a "deal," but the magnitude of it prevented it from falling
into the reports of petty swindling that appear in the police-court column. It was a public
affair, and not to be judged by one's private standard. I know that there were remarks made
about Henderson that would have pained Margaret if she had heard them, but I never heard that
he lost standing in the street. Still, in justice to the street it must be said that it charitably
waits for things to be proven, and that if Henderson had failed, he might have had little more
lenient judgment in the street than elsewhere.

In fact, those were very trying days for him-days when he needed all the private sympathy he
could get, and to be shielded, in his great fight with the conspiracy, from petty private annoyances.
It needed all his courage and good-temper and bonhomie to carry him through. That he went through
was evidence not only of his adroitness and ability, but it was proof also that he was a good
fellow. If there were people who thought otherwise, I never heard that they turned their backs
on him, or failed in that civility which he never laid aside in his intercourse with others.

If a man present a smiling front to the world under extreme trial, is not that all that can
be expected of him? Shall he not be excused for showing a little irritation at home when things
go badly? Henderson was as good-humored a man as I ever knew, and he loved Margaret, he was
proud of her, he trusted her. Since when did the truest love prevent a man from being petulant,
even to the extent of wounding those he best loves, especially if the loved one shows scruples
when sympathy is needed? The reader knows that the present writer has no great confidence in
the principle of Carmen; but if she had been married, and her husband had wrecked an insurance
company and appropriated all the surplus belonging to the policy-holders, I don't believe she
would have nagged him about it.

And yet Margaret loved Henderson with her whole soul. And in this stage of her progress in
the world she showed that she did, though not in the way Carmen would have showed her love,
if she had loved, and if she had a soul capable of love.

It may have been inferred from Henderson's exhibition of temper that his case had gone against
him. It is true; an injunction had been granted in the lower court, and public opinion went
with the decree, and was in a great measure satisfied by it. But this fight had really only
just begun; it would go on in the higher courts, with new resources and infinite devices, which
the public would be unable to fathom or follow, until by-and-by it would come out that a compromise
had been made, and the easy public would not understand that this compromise gave the looters
of the railway substantially all they ever expected to get. The morning after the granting
of the injunction Henderson had been silent and very much absorbed at breakfast, hardly polite,
Margaret thought, and so inattentive to her remarks that she asked him twice whether they should
accept the Brandon invitation to Christmas. "Christmas! I don't know. I've got other things
to think of than Christmas," he said, scarcely looking at her, and rising abruptly and going
away to his library.

When the postman brought Margaret's mail there was a letter in it from her aunt, which she
opened leisurely after the other notes had been glanced through, on the principle that a family
letter can wait, or from the fancy that some have of keeping the letter likely to be most interesting
till the last. But almost the first line enchained her attention, and as she read, her heart
beat faster, and her face became scarlet. It was very short, and I am able to print it, because
all Margaret's correspondence ultimately came into possession of her aunt:

   "BRANDON, December 17th.

   "DEAREST MARGARET,--You do not say whether you will come for
   Christmas, but we infer from your silence that you will. You know
   how pained we shall all be if you do not. Yet I fear the day will
   not be as pleasant as we could wish. In fact, we are in a good deal
   of trouble. You know, dear, that poor Mrs. Fletcher had nearly
   every dollar of her little fortune invested in the A. and B. bonds,
   and for ten months she has not had a cent of income, and no prospect
   of any. Indeed, Morgan says that she will be lucky if she
   ultimately saves half her principal. We try to cheer her up, but
   she is so cast down and mortified to have to live, as she says, on
   charity. And it does make rather close house-keeping, though I'm
   sure I couldn't live alone without her. It does not make so much
   difference with Mr. Fairchild and Mr. Morgan, for they have plenty
   of other resources. Mr. Fairchild tells her that she is in very
   good company, for lots of the bonds are held in Brandon, and she is
   not the only widow who suffers; but this is poor consolation. We
   had great hopes, the other day, of the trial, but Morgan says it may
   be years before any final settlement. I don't believe Mr. Henderson
   knows. But there, dearest, I won't find fault. We are all well,
   and eager to see you. Do come.

   "Your affectionate aunt,

   "GEORGIAN A."

Margaret's hand that held the letter trembled, and the eyes that read these words were hot
with indignation; but she controlled herself into an appearance of calmness as she marched
away with it straight to the library.

As she entered, Henderson was seated at his desk, with bowed head and perplexed brows, sorting
a pile of papers before him, and making notes. He did not look up until she came close to him
and stood at the end of his desk. Then, turning his eyes for a moment, and putting out his
left hand to her, he said, "Well, what is it, dear?"

"Will you read that?" said Margaret, in a voice that sounded strange in her own ears.

"What?"

"A letter from Aunt Forsythe."

"Family matter. Can't it wait?" said Henderson, going on with his figuring.

"If it can, I cannot," Margaret answered, in a tone that caused him to turn abruptly and look
at her. He was so impatient and occupied that even yet he did not comprehend the new expression
in her face.

"Don't you see I am busy, child? I have an engagement in twenty minutes in my office."

"You can read it in a moment," said Margaret, still calm.

Henderson took the letter with a gesture of extreme annoyance, ran his eye through it, flung
it from him on the table, and turned squarely round in his chair.

"Well, what of it?"

"To ruin poor Mrs. Fletcher and a hundred like her!" cried Margaret, with rising indignation.

"What have I to do with it? Did I make their investments? Do you think I have time to attend
to every poor duck? Why don't people look where they put their money?"

"It's a shame, a burning shame!" she cried, regarding him steadily.

"Oh, yes; no doubt. I lost a hundred thousand yesterday; did I whine about it? If I want to
buy anything in the market, have I got to look into every tuppenny interest concerned in it?
If Mrs. Fletcher or anybody else has any complaint against me, the courts are open. I defy
the whole pack!" Henderson thundered out, rising and buttoning his coat--"the whole pack!"

"And you have nothing else to say, Rodney?" Margaret persisted, not quailing in the least before
his indignation. He had never seen her so before, and he was now too much in a passion to fully
heed her.

"Oh, women, women!" he said, taking up his hat, "you have sympathy enough for anybody but your
husbands." He pushed past her, and was gone without another word or look.

Margaret turned to follow him. The fatuity with which he shows off and brags
to achieve all this, I was humiliated, I was humiliated and offended me. I want revenge and avenge
me. I want to disabuse the man and the hardest undeceive with disappointment. By itself and through
third vile insists on me to get alone in my house, and I make an appointment. I tired to deny
it, without getting to desist, which I respect, to form the opinion of me should and who will
treat me as a woman is honest, I have agreed to the appointment to come and see and know who I
am and to treat as it deserves.

- Animas blessed! - Dona Ines said, putting his hands on his head
-. You do not know you've done. That is aventuradísimo. How could he be angry with her
for her natural anxiety about her old friend! He was unjust. There must be something wrong
in these schemes, these great operations that made so many confiding people suffer. Was everybody
grasping and selfish? She got up and walked about the dear room, which recalled to her only
the sweetest memories; she wandered aimlessly about the lower part of the house. She was wretchedly
unhappy. Was her husband capable of such conduct? Would he cease to love her for what she had
done--for what she must do? How lovely this home was! Everything spoke of his care, his tenderness,
his quickness to anticipate her slightest wish or whim. It had been all created for her. She
looked listlessly at the pictures, the painted ceiling, where the loves garlanded with flowers
chased each other; she lifted and let drop wearily the rich hangings. He had said that it was
all hers. How pretty was this vista through the luxurious rooms down to the green and sunny
conservatory. And she shrank instinctively from it all. Was it hers? No; it was his. And was
she only a part of it? Was she his? How cold his look as he went away!

What is this love, this divine passion, of which we hear so much? Is it, then, such a discerner
of right and wrong? Is it better than anything else? Does it take the place of duty, of conscience?
And yet what an unbearable desert, what a den of wild beasts it would be, this world, without
love, the passionate, all-surrendering love of the man and the woman!

In the chambers, in her own apartments, into which she dragged her steps, it was worse than
below. Everything here was personal. Mrs. Fairchild had said that it was too rich, too luxurious;
but her husband would have it so. Nothing was too costly, too good, for the woman he loved.
How happy she had been in this boudoir, this room, her very own, with her books, the souvenirs
of all her happy life!

It seemed alien now, external, unsympathetic. Here, least of all places, could she escape from
herself, from her hateful thoughts. It was a chilly day, and a bright fire crackled on the
hearth. The square was almost deserted, though the sun illuminated it, and showed all the delicate
tracery of the branches and twigs. It was a December sun. Her easy-chair was drawn to the fire
and her book-stand by it, with the novel turned down that she had been reading the night before.
She sat down and took up the book. She had lost her interest in the characters. Fiction! What
stuff it was compared to the reality of her own life! No, it was impossible. She must do something.
She went to her dressing-room and selected a street dress. 

Since, finely released prelate returned with him to Seville, where to August 15 1711, made
profession of four votes.

From this it started again without wanting to Cadiz receive any of the present and delicious
the illustrious Mr. Levanto offered in acknowledgment of how much he had cooperated with the
Ministers of the Republic of Holland to his Lordship was restored
to his freedom.

Admitted only a few booklets of devotion, useful to introduce, even
people of little or no consciousness, feelings of Christian piety,
and to increase the esteem and reverence of Queen of the Angels, who
was very devoted.

Made himself sailed to December 27 the same year of 711. And even in this second navigation was with
colleagues captured by the English, who fired a cannon ball to ask flag, got hit very close
to where you came Fr Blende, that others are prevented for death, if it were to break, so that
all haste to be prevented the weapons, and even in this case, in which troubled all the danger
of death, went into continuous shock and surprise, he, with an angelic face serene, having
driven them all Jesuits and others in his position, men and women, who had fled to House of Santa
Barbara, general absolution, he was very slow to hear confessions
some that might confess.

At this time it was recognized as the perpetrators were British, that
when they came to our captain, they did show the passport of Queen
Anne he had, and they let free ships.

Caminóse then with various fortunes, and P. Bartholomew was charged Fr Attorney General Francis
Bourgeois, care of the novices, as it had done the time they were held in Cadiz, and was always
with them guts and true tenderness of a mother, not only in his spiritual progress, but even
in the body relief, so that to be soon to assist their needs, gave comfort to come to the Camera
stern, and wanted to live with them in Santa Barbara, very uncomfortable place and that rare
sometimes repaired left to cool wind in the Plaza de Armas, content only with conortes delights
and Sky, who never lacked, spending most of time in continuous and
close union with God.

Come to Buenos Aires to April 8 next year of 712 and waiting there a few months doctrines craft,
spent on them, with four of their conmisioneros, by order of P. Visitor, Antonio Garriga, to
the Missions of the Guarani, not without pain and sense of his novices, who wanted to enjoy him
for a longer time and take it a hallmark of Indian Jesuit, to copy itself such mighty and so great
virtues that are necessary to who in a strange country and among
people as barbaric by nature and vice, should exercise the office
of the Apostolic preaching.

What worked then in the service of God and of souls in those reductions can not easily say,
but enough can be surmised, that among many, on the other hand most worthy, was chosen by fellow
Apostolic P. Arce for discovering the port of Itatines, where scale is hiciese communication
with Missions the Chiquitos, and to observe the will of nations cincunvecinas
to the law of Christ, in whose company he died happily.

Truly man of virtue and talent, that much was expected for the exaltation of Faith, God, from
heaven ordered things of the earth, just the opposite of what we achieved our short trial,
he had not deprived of Paraguay, shortly after he was given and llamádole
to receive eternal rest when he was with strength and vigor to work
for many years.

He died in 715, do not know the day, but it is believed his death
was the last of November, at age 40 and 21 of religion, which had
come to 1. st October 1694.

CHAPTER XVIII

Founding a new and Fr Reduction Juan Bautista de Zea undertakes the
mission of Zamucos.

It is time we return to tie the threads of the story, interrupted
this long, well than useful digression, and first to give a view to
the reduction of San Juan Bautista, then move on to talk at length
about the trabajosísimas Missions undertaken in recent years to the
glory of God and the good of souls, the Apostolic P. Juan Bautista
de Zea.

We said in Chapter XVI how to address the lack of subjects had been
extinguished two peoples, and one dedicated to San Juan Bautista,
but by this time returned to start another with the same dedication.

Habíanse
therefore added to St. Joseph and number of Morotocos Quies, and to
maintain as much people was the homeland a bit sterile, and short
crops, and it was therefore necessary to divide that town and look
elsewhere to fund it rather than a new one. She was thinking of her old
home, of her own childhood, nay, of her girlhood--it was not so long ago--of her ideals then,
of her notion of the world and what it would bring her, of the dear, affectionate life, the
simple life, the school, the little church, her room in the cottage--the chamber where first
the realization of love came to her with the odors of May. Was it gone, that life?--gone or
going out of her heart? And--great heavens!--if her husband should be cold to her! Was she
very worldly? Would he love her if she were as unworldly as she once was? Why should this childish
singing raise these contrasts, and put her at odds so with her own life? For a moment I doubt
not this dear girl saw herself as we were beginning to see her. Who says that the rich and
the prosperous and the successful do not need pity?

Was this a comforting hour, do you think, for Margaret in the cathedral? Did she get any strength,
I wonder? When the singing was over and the organ ceased, and the children had filed out, she
stole away also, wearily and humbly enough, and took the stage down the avenue. It was near
the dinner-hour, and Henderson, if he came, would be at home any moment. It seemed as if she
could not wait--only to see him!

XVIII

Do you suppose that Henderson had never spoken impatiently and sharply to his wife before,
that Margaret had never resented it and replied with spirit, and been hurt and grieved, and
that there had never been reconciliations? In writing any biography there are some things that
are taken for granted with an intelligent public. Are men always gentle and considerate, and
women always even-tempered and consistent, simply by virtue of a few words said to the priest?

But this was a more serious affair. Margaret waited in a tumult of emotion. She felt that she
would die if she did not see him soon, and she dreaded his coming. A horrible suspicion had
entered her mind that respect for her husband, confidence in him, might be lowered, and a more
horrible doubt that she might lose his love. That she could not bear. And was Henderson unconscious
of all this? I dare say that in the perplexing excitement of the day he did recall for a moment
with a keen thrust of regret the scene of the morning-his wife standing there flushed, wounded,
indignant. "I might have turned back, and taken her in my arms, and told her it was all right,"
he thought. He wished he had done so. But what nonsense it was to think that she could be seriously
troubled! Besides, he couldn't have women interfering with him every moment.

How inconsiderate men are! They drop a word or a phrase--they do not know how cruel it is--or
give a look--they do not know how cold it is--and are gone without a second thought about it;
but it sinks into the woman's heart and rankles there. For the instant it is like a mortal
blow, it hurts so, and in the brooding spirit it is exaggerated into a hopeless disaster. The
wound will heal with a kind word, with kisses. Yes, but never, never without a little scar.
But woe to the woman's love when she becomes insensible to these little stabs!

Henderson hurried home, then, more eagerly than usual, with reparation in his heart, but still
with no conception of the seriousness of the breach. Margaret heard the key in the door, heard
his hasty step in the hall, heard him call, as he always did on entering, "Margaret! where
is Margaret?" and she, sitting there in the deep window looking on the square, longed to run
to him, as usual also, and be lifted up in his strong arms; but she could not stir. Only when
he found her did she rise up with a wistful look and a faint smile. "Have you had a good day,
child?" And he kissed her. But her kiss was on her lips only, for her heart was heavy.

"Dinner will be served as soon as you dress," she said. What a greeting was this! Who says
that a woman cannot be as cruel as a man? The dinner was not very cheerful, though Margaret
did her best not to appear constrained, and Henderson rattled on about the events of the day.
It had been a deuce of a day, but it was coming right; he felt sure that the upper court would
dissolve the injunction; the best counsel said so; and the criminal proceedings--"Had there
been criminal proceedings?" asked Margaret, with a stricture at her heart--had broken down
completely, hadn't a leg to stand on, never had, were only begun to bluff the company. It was
a purely malicious prosecution. And Henderson did not think it necessary to tell Margaret that
only Uncle Jerry's dexterity had spared both of them the experience of a night in the Ludlow
Street jail.

"Come," said Henderson--"come into the library. I have something to tell you." He put his arm
round her as they walked, and seating himself in his chair by his desk in front of the fire,
he tried to draw Margaret to sit on his knee.

"No; I'll sit here, so that I can see you," she said, composed and unyielding.

He took out his pocket-book, selected a slip of paper, and laid it on the table before him.
"There, that is a check for seven hundred dollars. I looked in the books. That is the interest
for a year on the Fletcher bonds. Might as well make it an even year; it will be that soon."

"Do you mean to say--" asked Margaret, leaning forward.

"Yes; to brighten up the Christmas up there a little."

"--that you are going to send that to Mrs. Fletcher?" Margaret had risen.

"Oh, no; that wouldn't do. I cannot send it, nor know anything about it. It would raise the--well,
it would--if the other bondholders knew anything about it. But you can change that for your
check, and nobody the wiser."

"Oh, Rodney!" She was on his knee now. He was good, after all. Her head was on his shoulder,
and she was crying a little. "I've been so unhappy, so unhappy, all day! And I can send that?"
She sprang up. "I'll do it this minute--I'll run and get my check-book!" But before she reached
the door she turned back, and came and stood by him and kissed him again and again, and tumbled
up his hair, and looked at him. There is, after all, nothing in the world like a woman.

"Time enough in the morning," said Henderson, detaining her. "I want to tell you all about it."

What he told her was, in fact, the case as it had been presented by his lawyers, and it seemed
a very large, a constitutional, kind of case. "Of course," he said, "in the rivalry and competition
of business somebody must go to the wall, and in a great scheme of development and reorganization
of the transportation of a region as big as an empire some individual interests will suffer.
You can't help these changes. I'm sorry for some of them--very sorry; but nothing would ever
be done if we waited to consider every little interest. And that the men who create these great
works, and organize these schemes for the benefit of the whole public, shouldn't make anything
by their superior enterprise and courage is all nonsense. The world is not made that way."

The explanation, I am bound to say, was one that half the world considers valid; it was one
that squeezed through the courts. And when it was done, and the whole thing had blown over,
who cared? There were some bondholders who said that it was rascally, that they had been boldly
swindled. In the clubs, long after, you would hear it said that Hollowell and Henderson were
awfully sharp, and hard to beat. It is a very bad business, said the Brandon parliament, and
it just shows that the whole country is losing its moral sense, its capacity to judge what
is right and what is wrong.

I do not say that this explanation, the nature of which I have only indicated, would have satisfied
the clear mind of Margaret a year or two before. But it was made by the man she loved, the
man who had brought her out into a world that was full of sunlight and prosperity and satisfied
desire; and more and more, day by day, she saw the world through his eyes, and accepted his
estimate of the motives of people--and a low estimate I fear it was. Who would not be rich
if he could? Do you mean to tell me that a man who is getting fat dividends out of a stock
does not regard more leniently the manner in which that stock is manipulated than one who does
not own any of it? I dare say, if Carmen had heard that explanation, and seen Margaret's tearful,
happy acceptance of it, she would have shaken her pretty head and said, "They are getting too
worldly for me."

In the morning the letter was despatched to Miss Forsythe, enclosing the check for Mrs. Fletcher--a
joyful note, full of affection. "We cannot come," Margaret wrote. "My husband cannot leave,
and he does not want to spare me"--the little hypocrite! he had told her that she could easily
go for a day "but we shall think of you dear ones all day, and I do hope that now there will
not be the least cloud on your Christmas."

It seems a great pity, in view of the scientific organization of society, that there are so
many sensibilities unclassified and unprovided for in the otherwise perfect machinery. Why
should the beggar to whom you toss a silver dollar from your carriage feel a little grudge
against you? Perhaps he wouldn't like to earn the dollar, but if it had been accompanied by
a word of sympathy, his sensibility might have been soothed by your recognition of human partnership
in the goods of this world. People not paupers are all eager to take what is theirs of right;
but anything in the semblance of charity is a bitter pill to swallow until self-respect is
a little broken down. Probably the resentment lies in the recognition of the truth that it
is much easier to be charitable than to be just. If Margaret had seen the effect produced by
her letter she might have thought of this; she might have gone further, and reflected upon
what would have been her own state of mind two years earlier if she had received such a letter.
Miss Forsythe read it with a very heavy heart. She hesitated about showing it to Mrs. Fletcher,
and when she did, and gave her the check, it was with a sense of shame.

"The insolence of the thing!" cried Mrs. Fletcher, as soon as she comprehended it.

"Not insolence," pleaded Miss Forsythe, softly; "it is out of the kindness of her heart. She
would be dreadfully wounded to know that you took it so."

"Well," said Mrs. Fletcher, hotly, "I like that kind of sensibility. Does she think I have
no feeling? Does she think I would take from her as a charity what her husband knows is mine
by right?"

"Perhaps her husband--"

"No," Mrs. Fletcher interrupted. "Why didn't he send it, then? why didn't the company send
it? They owe it. I'm not a pauper. And all the other bondholders who need the money as much
as I do! I'm not saying that if the company sent it I should refuse it because the others had
been treated unjustly; but to take it as a favor, like a beggar!"

"Of course you cannot take it from Margaret," said Miss Forsythe sadly.

"How dreadful it is!"

Mrs. Fletcher would have shared her last crust with Miss Forsythe, and if her own fortune were
absolutely lost, she would not hesitate to accept the shelter of her present home, using her
energies to add to their limited income, serving and being served in all love and trust. But
this is different from taking a bounty from the rich.

The check had to go back. Even my wife, who saw no insolence in Margaret's attempt, applauded
Mrs. Fletcher's spirit. She told Miss Forsythe that if things did not mend they might get a
few little pupils for Mrs. Fletcher from the neighborhood, and Miss Forsythe knew that she
was thinking that her own boy might have been one of them if he had lived. Mr. Morgan was a
little satirical, as usual. He thought it would be a pity to check Margaret's growing notion
that there was no wrong that money could not heal a remark that my wife thought unjust to the
girl. Mrs. Fletcher was for re-enclosing the check without a word of comment, but that Miss
Forsythe would not do.

"My dearest Margaret," she wrote, "I know the kindness of heart that moved you to do this,
and I love you more than ever, and am crying as I think of it. But you must see yourself, when
you reflect, that Mrs. Fletcher could not take this from you. Her self-respect would not permit
it. Somebody has done a great wrong, and only those who have done it can undo it. I don't know
much about such things, my dear, and I don't believe all that the newspapers have been saying,
but there would be no need for charity if there had not been dishonesty somewhere. I cannot
help thinking that. We do not blame you. And you must not take it to heart that I am compelled
to send this back. I understand why you sent it, and you must try to understand why it cannot
be kept."

There was more of this sort in the letter. It was full of a kind of sorrowful yearning, as
if there was fear that Margaret's love were slipping away and all the old relations were being
broken up, but yet it had in it a certain moral condemnation that the New England spinster
could not conceal. Softened as it was by affectionate words, and all the loving messages of
the season, it was like a slap in the face to Margaret. She read it in the first place with
intense mortification, and then with indignation. This was the way her loving spirit was flung
back upon her! They did not blame her! They blamed her husband, then. They condemned him. It
was his generosity that was spurned.

Is there a particular moment when we choose our path in life, when we take the right or the
left? At this instant, when Margaret arose with the crumpled letter in her hand, and marched
towards her husband's library, did she choose, or had she been choosing for the two years past,
and was this only a publication of her election? Why had she secretly been a little relieved
from restraint when her Brandon visit ended in the spring? They were against her husband; they
disapproved of him, that was clear. Was it not a wife's duty to stand by her husband? She was
indignant with the Brandon scrupulousness; it chafed her.. Was this simply because she loved
her husband, or was this indignation a little due also to her liking for the world which so
fell in with her inclinations? The motives in life are so mixed that it seems impossible wholly
to condemn or wholly to approve. If Margaret's destiny had been united with such a man as John
Lyon, what would have been her discernment in such a case as this? It is such a pity that for
most people there is only one chance in life.

She laid the letter and the check upon her husband's desk. He read it with a slight frown,
which changed to a smile of amusement as he looked up and saw Margaret's excitement.

"Well, it was a miss-go. Those folks up there are too good for this world. You'd better send
it to the hospital."

"But you see that they say they do not blame me," Margaret said, with warmth.

"Oh, I can stand it. People usually don't try to hurt my feelings that way. Don't mind it,
child. They will come to their senses, and see what nonsense it all is."

Yes, it was nonsense. And how generous and kind at heart her husband was! In his skillful making
little of it she was very much comforted, and at the same time drawn into more perfect sympathy
with him. She was glad she was not going to Brandon for Christmas; she would not submit herself
to its censorship. The note of acknowledgment she wrote to her aunt was short and almost formal.
She was very sorry they looked at the matter in that way. She thought she was doing right,
and they might blame her or not, but her aunt would see that she could not permit any distinction
to be set up between her and her husband, etc.

Was this little note a severance of her present from her old life? I do not suppose she regarded
it so. If she had fully realized that it was a step in that direction, would she have penned
it with so little regret as she felt? Or did she think that circumstances and not her own choice
were responsible for her state of feeling? She was mortified, as has been said, but she wrote
with more indignation than pain.

A year ago Carmen would have been the last person to whom Margaret would have spoken about
a family affair of this kind. Nor would she have done so now, notwithstanding the intimacy
established at Newport, if Carmen had not happened in that day, when Margaret was still hurt
and excited, and skillfully and most sympathetically extracted from her the cause of the mood
she found her in. But even with all these allowances, that Margaret should confide such a matter
to Carmen was the most startling sign of the change that had taken place in her.

"Well," said this wise person, after she had wormed out the whole story, and expressed her
profound sympathy, and then fallen into an attitude of deep reflection--"well, I wish I could
cast my bread upon the waters in that way. What are you going to do with the money?"

"I've sent it to the hospital."

"What extravagance! And did you tell your aunt that?"

"Of course not."

"Why not? I couldn't have resisted such a righteous chance of making her feel bad."

"But I don't want to make her feel bad."

"Just a little? You will never convince people that you are unworldly this way. Even Uncle
Jerry wouldn't do that."

"You and Uncle Jerry are very much alike," cried Margaret, laughing in spite of herself--"both
of you as bad as you can be."

"But, dear, we don't pretend, do we?" asked Carmen, innocently.

To some of us at Brandon, Margaret's letter was scarcely a surprise, though it emphasized a
divergence we had been conscious of. But with Miss Forsythe it was far otherwise. The coolness
of Margaret's tone filled her with alarm; it was the premonition of a future which she did
not dare to face.

There was a passage in the letter which she did not show; not that it was unfeeling, she told
my wife afterwards, but that it exhibited a worldly-mindedness that she could not have conceived
of in Margaret. She could bear separation from the girl on whom she had bestowed her tenderest
affection, that she had schooled herself to expect upon her marriage--that, indeed, was only
a part of her life of willing self-sacrifice--their paths must lie apart, and she could hope
to see little of her. But what she could not bear was the separation in spirit, the wrenching
apart of sympathy, the loss of her heart, and the thought of her going farther and farther
away into that world whose cynical and materialistic view of life made her shudder. I think
there are few tragedies in life comparable to this to a sensitive, trusting soul--not death
itself, with its gracious healing and oblivion and pathos. Family quarrels have something sustaining
in them, something of a sense of wrong and even indignation to keep up the spirits. There was
no family quarrel here, no indignation, just simple, helpless grief and sense of loss. In one
sense it seemed to the gentle spinster that her own life was ended, she had lived so in this
girl--ever since she came to her a child, in long curls and short frocks, the sweetest, most
trustful, mischievous, affectionate thing. These two then never had had any secrets, never
any pleasure, never any griefs they did not share. She had seen the child's mind unfold, the
girl's grace and intelligence, the woman's character. Oh, Margaret, she cried, to herself,
if you only knew what you are to me!

Margaret's little chamber in the cottage was always kept ready for her, much in the condition
she had left it. She might come back at any time, and be a girl again. 

Messengers arrived and were received with great love and courtesy, and were seated at the table
of the chief, whose tubers were reduced to wild thistle roots, which was all maintenance,
and great gift offered them a glass of water, because there was such a shortage, everyone was waiting
for the lucky to get so much fit in the palm of hand a small spring coming out of a cliff.

Two days later, the Christian left, accompanied by the principal chief, with other of their
own, and being in the forest with P. Miguel, turned, and to October 5 arrived at where Fr Zea had
raised the year before the cross.

Was incredible joy and celebration that made those good people, expressing the pleasure they see in their
countries for our missionaries, saying on behalf of all the principal chief, Indian, certainly worthy
of esteem, that despite their greater need, hunger and poverty section had not allowed his people
or his people moved away from being in continuous hope that our people had to go, having sent
several times, and he went on person to record the paths to see if
they looked.

Same was also the joy of P. I saw Miguel and sweats made of P. Zea,
which with so many jobs that had begun to plant a vineyard, and it
rained for fertility of sky abundant blessings.

Then treated with one boss and all the other major, the end of his going to those peoples, which
was the reduction in their land base and keep them asked for which purpose give him free passage
and guidelines for all other peoples, to pick at them which was wealthier for the foundation,
and in particular to those who were closest to the West to the salt flats, where they had informed
the Father had very good places for people, gouache, mountains and
palm trees for stays of cattle, being interested in this also go closer
to the other peoples of the Chiquitos, with the right path and shorter.

"The

chief hearing me (words of the Father Miguel, in the letter to Father Juan Patricio Fernández). Listening
to me the chief of these and other conveniences, gave a cry and sighed, saying:

"- I had to ungrateful and mean, after so many subtleties and estimate that you have made me, if
something you lie and deceive, and deny what you're asking me annoy you, and although ye believe
not me, you the truth, Father, that in all our lands will not find places, and the amenities you
say to found, as the same as you see and recognize in this my people happens in all others,
and even in the rainy season, because of the floods, are some canyons with plenty of water, but
after a few months there are more than mothers dry, without water, so then we spread with our
mob to find what to eat and drink.

"Despite this response, I again urged other reasons more effective
than our Lord inspired me to let me pass even to visit the cacique
of the peoples of the West, giving me guidance and who opened a path
for me to go to the light.

"He replied to this request the chief:

"- I assure you, Father, for
the love I have for you, if you go, you and all your colleagues, perish
of thirst.

"

So much for the P. Michael, who heard this and went aside to commend to our Lord that business.

Then
the chief all the people gathered in the square and heartfelt words rebuked which one of them
had lied and deceived the P. Mission to say he had in their land and such places and facilities
for the foundation, and they said that was very ashamed that had given occasion for the Father judges
that he was deceiving him, denying what they both wanted, and finally sent to all who obey in all
things will Fr Miguel. While he was retired to his ranch, praying to Our Lord who is not frustrated
Reducing this foundation and all the crowd close and committed to his Majesty's resolution which
would in this case.

Later learned through the interpreter, who had been hearing from the
chief secret, the whole reasoning that he had done to his people in
the square.

"With which (continuing the Father in their relationship), I determined to propose if would like
to establish and join for this purpose out of the mountains and the auction of the campaigns of
Japeras of Cucarates, being very sane land for a foundation, but
only in passing registered views and mind (if they came at it) to
register it better to return, bringing some of them with me to see
the sites.

"I called from there to the chief a while and I suggested all this, to go ahead without me, responded
with great jubilation that was great choice, and he'd been and seen all those campaigns, and
that seemed very good and calculated to the end and follow me then with his people and all other
neighboring villages, to not have all zapallares already in bloom and many had already begun to
give, and not sow anything but that ending would put together and convened the all those people,
and would then leave the site I mentioned for the people, and send me one of the main register and
they saw the place for such people, and give them back what has been,
then the road would to that place.

"With that he decided to return after two days because there was no water to drink, and in these
two days I was there, was forced to drink a few puddles that had gathered in a Glen, a league
from the village, a rain that fell, which was more mud than water,
and a they had little collection, rainwater, in a few pumpkins, we
got one, very fine, and sold some corn.

"Shortly after the people were quieted, it was quite dark, came the
chief, accompanied with some old, to ask me sitting next to my tent,
and seat giving a sign of joy and reward, "said the chief:

"- Father,
do not worry, that after the year that has populated the site to point
out to us, go with the people of this my village to the south in three
days of mountain road, to bring and invite Zamucos to another province
(with whom formerly were friends and we broke with them) that are
ten villages in both number and us, and from there back to a day's
journey, that crowns the mountain and begin campaigns is reaches innumerable
crowd to the people who call us from the Spanish.

These wars always with this other Zamucos province, called Ugaroñós (of which there is one in this
town of San Juan, that once came with his parents to the other province, and from there to
the Morotocos, and when was with the Padres, came to see all the crowd, which is the Chaco, and
some towns on one side Guarayos.) Agradecíle very news the chief, who again were thrilled to
add with the place that they had suggested, well adapted to power more easily from there and
soon penetrate to those nations, as the farthest I had come to their land and villages, and
giving me more news in other crowds in different directions, said goodbye to go to rest. "

Thus P. Miguel, who, loving the other day saying goodbye to them, there arose a clamor and tears
of all people, to whom the desire of the holy baptism was not encouraging to see from Missionary Father,
but by giving them word that as soon see them again, it still; and hands raised to heaven, asking
God to give them safe journey and return quickly.

Departed, finally, casting a thousand thanks to those people, so willing
to receive Holy faith, and brought in his company who Zamucos sent
their chief, and recognized the country of Cucarates, went to San
Juan Bautista, where the neophytes received and welcomed to the two
catechumens with extraordinary affection, those treating them with
courtesy and zeal the good of their souls and the love of God dictate
to those who are new to the holy faith.

, Then, arrived back from
the Zamucos the people of San Juan to October 26 of that same year
1718 and then took the news of everything mentioned in this chapter
to the Father Visitor of those missions, Juan Patricio Fernandez,
who attributed to singular mercy God and the merits and sweats to
the Apostolic P. Zea barbarians were so eager of holy baptism, and
so happy and ready to leave their land was then dispatched two Zamucos
brought Fr Miguel de Yegros, with notice to the chief of which was
with all vassals to the lands of Cucarates, because there soon would
break Fr Miguel, brother Alberto Romero.

Who would believe that a work, directed with much work and sweat and with so much happiness, where
it would be great glory to God and the church lot number of the faithful,
is destroyed at a time, and so, so far not been able to reduce, rather
than always you try!

The cause of this new attribute it all to the natural fickleness and instability of Indians,
but if I am against this common sense could add my own particular, I would say it has had
highest cause this unfortunate event, for being the conversion of
souls mainly work God, let Your Majesty many times the human industries,
and the power of the media that we do not take effect for us suspicious
of them attributed to single virtue of his grace those events to be
made prosperous, it would be an easy thing we those to be attributed
to ourselves.

But whatever it is that, left in August 1719 by Fr Miguel de Yegros and brother Alberto, bringing
all message to celebrate Mass and everything else necessary to support the church Reduction of the
new San Ignacio Our father, coming to the campaign that had Zamucos chosen to base it did not
find anyone, and sending some to everywhere take notice of these people, they found his burned
village, and knew that he had withdrawn some days away, beside a lagoon abundant fishing,
closing steps where they could follow.

Decided to go in person in his brother Albert to look up, as he did, and having encountered, remonstrated
with the word they had given to God and want to be Padres Christians
and live together in a village in the place they had chosen and marked.

They

put a good face at first the barbarians and feigned wanting signs of joy be to the promise, and
that signal, they walked with him to the designated site, covering up between both the heart
and its premeditated treachery, and many days were entertained with good words to the brother who
tried, with all the subtleties of his great charity beat wills with benefits. Finally the mask
is removed on day 1. First of October, and dead treacherously twelve Christians, an infamous
chief grabbed the throat to the holy brother and the edge of a heavy baton split his head, then
stripped him savagely, and fear of not to come upon them to avenge
this death the Chiquitos, fled together, without knowing where.

Fr Miguel, warned of this event by two Christians who by good fortune was able to escape the havoc,
he turned with great pain in his heart for not being able to do more, and disclosed by all peoples
the news of the death of the holy brother, he wept inconsolably Indians, who, as a reward for good
deeds that he had received, he held solemn funeral in all its peoples, the quota, and was possible
in their poverty, and I, for finish this chapter, give here a brief
account of his life and virtues, because it is very appropriate herein.

Alberto

Romero was the brother of the Spanish nation and native of Segovia, the son of honest parents and occupation
merchant, well settled, but eager to see land and make more fortune Peru went with other merchants,
hoping to find this fortune equal to his wishes.

Not left their hopes failed because acquired great wealth and was highly esteemed by all; and so the
Royal Court as the Archbishop of Chuquisaca, he rides a lot of businesses committed for public
good, but as is so common in the human things done and get rid at one point, changing face at
every turn of fortune, not last long in a state either prosperous and adverse, being just like
himself, to be always unstable, having Alberto always been our cheerful and supportive, experienced
themselves these moves, because suddenly, I do not know for what reason, if it was not to raise
their desires to the things of heaven, earth sank down to the great machine of its prosperity.

Soon
he lost all that many years, and at the expense of great difficulty
had acquired that was reduced to great poverty, but not without profit,
because this blow turned yes, and seeing an old man, without wealth
or merit earth to heaven, is hurt much of the wrong he had used his
heart to win and buy goods obsolete, without being this time lost
more than a perpetual remorse achieve their bad years.

Therefore decided to give everything to God, the care of his soul and to the things of eternity,
spending, most provident merchant, the rest of his life in the smuggling of goods not subject to removals
and reversals of fortune, which had better achievement when the sailing world booming prosperity.

And
God, which is often more like those who come to work in the vineyard to the final hour than the
first hour of the day to dig into the work, is extremely pleased
their determination, and gave him cash after a fulness of comfort
in his service, garment award for all his merits he was prepared on
earth, and then eternally in heaven.

At that time, some pious Spanish, collected from the residents of
Tarija some alms, sent every year a generous relief to the Christianity
of the Chiquitos and the Missionaries you need to celebrate the Holy
Sacrifice of the Mass and devotion to do with all possible sacred
functions.

With this provision once sent him our Fathers of the College of Tarija, with whom he was familiar,
and then paid that love God very long.

Because considering the fervor and holy life of the new Christian and apostolic labors the evangelical
workers, that live in such work, to them that writes itself St. Paul, were always cheerful and
a mouth with laughter, moved to another man and is vivid inflamed
heart desires to be more intimately with God, and spend his life in
service of this new Christianity, and indeed gave then sampling of
how really said it.

Then stood to teach the Indians all mechanical trades, to clear forests, to work the land and
to manage the plows to cultivate, with the sick, old and disabled, had guts and tenderness of
a mother, there was nothing that they would not do, with the barbarians
who became again, fell apart in the affections of charity, did not
know leave her side, appeared that one wanted to get into the heart,
and barbarians they were, kept Similar demonstrations to do with them,
not looking at them what appeared abroad but the value of their souls,
the Redeemer bought with the price of all his blood.

Not for work both for the souls of their neighbors was neglected in his own, collected many times
to have prayer, at which time the copious tears shed were indications
the consolations with which God comforted his spirit.

And indeed it was very necessary this celestial consort to give courage and encouragement in
the tough and continuing battle with the infernal enemy, which strongly aching like an old fool
and no letters running down the road to the highest perfection and
mocked by removing so many souls in their hands, would not allow him
to pursue the day or night, is already in feis form of animals, and
other visions espantándosele abominable.

This terrible persecution lasted more than three years, but our Alberto, God always attended and
her guardian angel, that if his side was not visibly, at least it
was the invisible operation on his heart, never gave up, nor missed
the usual charities, and took a step backwards in the way of life
he had undertaken.

And perhaps, in this generous award from the record, he lit the living heart desires joining the
Company, he loved very tender, but in view of its great age, it was necessary License our Father
General, which could not be reached so quickly, therefore, partly to console her prayers and
tears, Fr Provincial Vice Luis de la Roca, when he visited those missions, he admitted for
the Donated until the license came from Rome to welcome a brother Coadjutor of the Company,
but the sky more quickly signed him this license, and the Company
triumphantly told the number of those champions who boarded the livery
of Christ with his own blood, rather than here on earth he would tell
the militant in the number of those, who with humble ministries of
state aid for the conversion of souls.

CHAPTER XX

Developments and other reductions increases in the years 1717 and 1718.

Although I have written in these two last chapters, it has happened
in many years and in this time have turned to faith and livestock
to the sky many hundreds of infidels, yet not to confuse the events
and missions of the reductions, I wanted to separate with the intention
of and now turn would report the fervor and merit of the neophytes
of the other lands, deigning Lord God reward your sweats with abundant
harvest of unbelievers to encourage to work more encouragement and
enthusiasm in service of the church.

Christians, therefore, the reduction of San Francisco Xavier Mission
made up of two parts different.

Some ZAMALA went looking for some infidels, who had found the past years and had stopped collecting
for lack Guarayos, where they were welcomed, and although not understood, they made signs to
them and moved some to follow and to receive the holy baptism.

Others Piñocas nation, wanted to go to the Puyzocas, killing at P. Lucas Knight more barely
could get, because the way they entered a village of Cozocas, so suddenly, that sense of the peasants,
who were working in their fields, and People believed to be enemy
to flee were furiously to rid the life of us amounted to some, and
entering the Ranching found it empty, and no living person.

Seen in the Ranchos many shields, feathers woven beautiful colors with lots of art and industry,
they were adorned with cameras where they were piled many bones the dead and pieces of fresh
meat, evidence they were man-eaters.

Walk all dressed up and have the same customs as the Baures and Cosiricas, though use a different
language. Between large and small gathered 36.

Christians in the town of Concepcion was to preach the law of Christ
to the Cosiricas, but no more I took the job.

Two years earlier had gone to their village and brought four for them to see the reductions, where
they were received with great love and kindness.

These two were with the neophytes to bring to his countrymen, who were not admitted With great
affection, because the devil put them in suspicion that they were
Mamalucos or other enemies who had come to make them slaves.

However, sat at the table and presented them some gifts in the country, but there exist for other
Indian lands, encompassed in a half-moon, shooting a storm of arrows
to make them flee, the newborns without do more to repair the shock,
retreated in good order, and half that many were instance the captains
to respond with weapons, beat the part of the best, that imitation
of the Redeemer, unwilling to return evil for evil, three were dead,
the others, abused, returned to the reduction.

San Rafael came by two parties in search of souls, a troop of Taus
won to the faith four and eighty infidels Bacusones nation.

The other, risers, went to the banks of the Paraguay River in search of Curucanes.

When they arrived on the banks of the river when a little boy with
some others, came forward, and discovering a canoe coming toward them,
they hid behind some bushes, thinking he seeking the infidels, but
noting that it was a black man with two Indians, who were fishing,
Chiquito mates shouted: Mamalucos!

Mamalucos! and drove them headlong.

Just saw black Chiquito only when he pointed his musket, but stopped
shooting, because the Indian shouted out loud: Do not kill me, I am
a Christian like you and do not do any harm; and knew that more clearly
showed an image of Our Lady and Child in the arms, which, black, leaving
the musket, adored knees.

Then our neophytes were assembled there in number one hundred and fifty, issued in good order on
the bank.

In the interim came the Captain of the Mamalucos, and calling to one
who understood Chiquito Guarani language, asked who they were and
to what end they went for those costs.

Replied that they were children of our missionaries (this is the phrase that they use with which
reduced them to the faith) and Christians from the village of San Rafael, who were looking for
infidels to lead the guild of the holy mother church.

- For the same reason we look for us, - said the captain Mamaluco, and added in a gesture of
anger:

- Why come here if we have taken and all infidels?

Father asked him then what you instructed and taught the faith and
who came with them.

Said Fr Felipe Suarez, was a priest of his people, but they were alone.

- And, then, - said the Mamaluco - what captains and drivers govern you?

Those with cunning rather than Indians, they responded that their captains were sixty. So returned
to their own, they said Mamaluco:

- Many people have enrolled them, and without speaking again, by playing
to retirement, he embarked with all his men in the canoes, running
to every Vogar, for not coming to blows with such people, and heaven
forbid that Christians and Guarani, a long time now are the terror
of these cruel enemies, they are also reduced to the faith Chiquitos
and civil government.

The newcomers, happy with the good achievement of his cunning, proceeded far some way to that
shore, until they finally found the Curucanes Rancheria, where being
well received, They were all square, kneeling to pray the Rosary of
Our Lady to His Majesty to give those nations trial (sentence explaining
when They pray for themselves or for others to our Lord and the Blessed
Virgin) so that all will embrace God's holy law.

 But Margaret was not to be moved from her good-humor
by any amount of badgering. She liked Henderson Hall; she was proud of the consideration it
brought her husband; she had a comfortable sense of doing something that was demanded by her
opportunity. It is so difficult to analyze motives, and in Margaret's case so hard to define
the change that had taken place in her. That her heart was not enlisted in this affair, as
it would have been a few years before, she herself knew. Insensibly she had come to look at
the world, at men and women, through her husband's eyes, to take the worldly view, which is
not inconsistent with much good feeling and easy-going charity. She also felt the necessity--a
necessity totally unknown to such a nature as Carmen's--of making compensation, of compounding
for her pleasures. Gradually she was learning to play her husband's game in life, and to see
no harm in it. What, then, is this thing we call conscience? Is it made of India-rubber? I
once knew a clever Southern woman, who said that New England women seemed to her all conscience--Southern
women all soul and impulse. If it were possible to generalize in this way, we might say that
Carmen had neither conscience nor soul, simply very clever reason. Uncle Jerry had no more
conscience than Carmen, but he had a great deal of natural affection. Henderson, with an abundance
of good-nature, was simply a man of his time, troubled with no scruples that stood in the way
of his success. Margaret, with a finer nature than either of them, stifling her scruples in
an atmosphere of worldly-mindedness, was likely to go further than either of them. Even such
a worldling as Carmen understood this. "I do things," she said to Mrs. Laflamme--she made anybody
her confidant when the fit was on her--"I do things because I don't care. Mrs. Henderson does
the same, but she does care."

Margaret would be a sadder woman, but not a better woman, when the time came that she did not
care. She had come to the point of accepting Henderson's methods of overreaching the world,
and was tempering the result with private liberality. Those were hypocrites who criticised
him; those were envious who disparaged him; the sufficient ethics of the world she lived in
was to be successful and be agreeable. And it is difficult to condemn a person who goes with
the general opinion of his generation. Carmen was under no illusions about Henderson, or the
methods and manners of which she was a part. "Why pretend?" she said. "We are all bad together,
and I like it. Uncle Jerry is the easiest person to get on with." I remember a delightful,
wicked old baroness whom I met in my youth stranded in Geneva on short allowance--European
resorts are full of such characters. "My dear," she said, "why shouldn't I renege? Why shouldn't
men cheat at cards? It's all in the game. Don't we all know we are trying to deceive each other
and get the best of each other? I stopped pretending after Waterloo. Fighting for the peace
of Europe! Bah! We are all fighting for what we can get."

So the Catachoobee Henderson Hall was dedicated, and Mr. Henderson got great credit out of it.

"It's a noble deed, Mr. Henderson," Carmen remarked, when they were at dinner on the car the
day of their departure. "But"--in an aside to her host--"I advise the lambs in Wall Street
to look alive at your next deal."

XX

We can get used to anything. Morgan says that even the New England summer is endurable when
you learn to dress warmly enough. We come to endure pain and loss with equanimity; one thing
and another drops out of our lives-youth, for instance, and sometimes enthusiasm--and still
we go on with a good degree of enjoyment. I do not say that Miss Forsythe was quite the same,
or that a certain zest of life and spring had not gone out of the little Brandon neighborhood.

As the months and the years went by we saw less and less of Margaret--less and less, that is,
in the old way. Her rare visits were perfunctory, and gave little satisfaction to any of us;
not that she was ungracious or unkindly, but simply because the things we valued in life were
not the same. There was no doubt that any of us were welcome at the Hendersons' when they were
in the city, genuinely, though in an exterior way, but gradually we almost ceased to keep up
an intercourse which was a little effort on both sides. Miss Forsythe came back from her infrequent
city visits weary and sad.

Was Margaret content? I suppose so. She was gay; she was admired; she was always on view in
that semi-public world in which Henderson moved; she attained a newspaper notoriety which many
people envied. If she journeyed anywhere, if she tarried anywhere, if she had a slight illness,
the fact was a matter of public concern. Are you still with the same
hobby horses? What Venturita? A woman and be done, right? ... (Pause.) Cecilia is good? - ended
questions quickly.

To all their questions answered in monosyllables Belinchón lord.

- You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that a little kill me now?

- What!

Neatly told mishap spring.

Finished the story, fell into a deep consternation.

- I suppose that the family will already be in bed?

"- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough (at least in concept) the danger of the merchant.

- No, they are in the theater ... No one knows where available; do
you, dear?

- Hello!

Are there company?

- Yes, from a few days ago. Do you think I would have killed, Gonzalo?

- Phs ... maybe you have broken a leg, or both ... or rib.

- Less bad! - Said Mr Belinchón sighing.

In this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a
certain street, don Rosendo farewell to the uncle and nephew.

It gave him the hand with obvious sadness.

- I'm going to the theater to find the family.

Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo.

- See you tomorrow ... Regards.

Mr. de las Cuevas and his nephew were paired walking slowly around the house the first. Then
fell on the traveler a flurry of questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the
trip by sea. "What wind? close-hauled always right? ... Did not you ever fallen? The boat cabecearía
not much, is it loaded ... What flows? Marearíais not provided with all the material, eh?
Do you have to reefing Liverpool exit?

I know, I know the cloth!

Gonzalo replied to questions with distraction, which, moreover, hardly
understood.

He was downcast and gloomy.

Finally watching his uncle, stood firm and said:

- What is it, Gonzalito?

You seem sad.

- Me? Ca! No, sir.

- I swear it is.

Followed another in silence, and Don Melchor, slapping his forehead, exclaimed:

- I know what you got!

- What?

- Poor land. I passed the same thing. When jumping on the ground after a trip I went an uneasiness,
a sadness, a desire so great return on board! It lasted two or three days until I became accustomed.
Anyway, I had desire to reach port, but once there, she missed life
on board.

I do not know what the sea is that attracts you? ... That pure air! ... That movement! ... That
freedom! ... A that make you feel like the boat, eh? - Ended by saying with a grin who credited
his extreme insight.

- Damn ... From what I have won, man, I'll tell you in confidence
... is to see my girlfriend.

Don Melchor was amazed.

- Really?

-
What you hear.

She thought for a moment, Mr. de las Cuevas, and he
said:

- Well, if you want to go to the theater to greet ... Meanwhile,
I'm going to see how Amendment Domingo.

- What has to be amended?
It is a wonderful person - said the young man smiling.

The guy, without
realizing the irony, he sneered.

- Oh, I see you so ignorant as you
have been ... I am looking for dinner.

- I wait for you, man - said
Gonzalo, who was already far .-- It may not have dinner.

And without
taking race, but with unusual speed, thanks to his huge legs, saved
the streets, lit by some rare oil lamps in the theater. Any you stumble
in that hour you inglesote diputaría by the many who come to Sarrió
sometimes sending ships, other mining concessions to recognize or
mount any industry. His colossal stature, big man, are the hallmarks
of the Spanish race, even we are in one of the northern provinces.
Then, that so long coat, boots three soles, hat exotic form, clearly
denounced abroad. Well, looking at him Face had just completed the
illusion, because it was white and smooth and decorated with long
beard, blue eyes, hazel or rather, as those who are almost except
in the northern breeds. Seize the short time remaining before us you
get to the theater to provide the reader with some biographical information
about this young man.

The Cuevas family to which it belongs, came
to be giants and marine, from time immemorial. Marino had been his
father, his grandfather ocean, marine uncles, and also marine their
children. Gonzalo lost his father and mother when it was eight years
old owner of a not inconsiderable fortune, managed by his uncle and
guardian, Don Melchor, in whose power and save his father left him
to die. She is becoming exactly like
Mr. Henderson. You couldn't ask anything more than that."

If Margaret were really happy, the earl told Miss Forsythe, he was glad, but it was scarcely
the career he would have thought would have suited her.

Meantime, the great house was approaching completion. Henderson's palace, in the upper part
of the city, had long been a topic for the correspondents of the country press. It occupied
half a square. Many critics were discontented with it because it did not occupy the whole square.
Everybody was interested in having it the finest residence on the continent. Why didn't Henderson
take the whole block of ground, build his palace on three sides, with the offices and stables
on the fourth, throw a glass roof over the vast interior court, plant it with tropical trees
and plants, adorn it with flower-beds and fountains, and make a veritable winter-garden, giving
the inhabitants a temperate climate all the cold months? He might easily have summer in the
centre of the city from November to April. These rich people never know what to do with their
money. Such a place would give distinction to the city, and compel foreigners to recognize
the high civilization of America. A great deal of fault was found with Henderson privately
for his parsimony in such a splendid opportunity.

Nevertheless it was already one of the sights of the town. Strangers were taken to see it,
as it rose in its simple grandeur. Local reporters made articles on the progress of the interior
whenever they could get an entrance. It was not ornate enough to please, generally, but those
who admired the old Louvre liked the simplicity of its lines and the dignity of the elevations.
They discovered the domestic note in its quiet character, and said that the architect had avoided
the look of an "institution" in such a great mass. He was not afraid of dignified wall space,
and there was no nervous anxiety manifested, which would have belittled it with trivial ornamentation.

Perhaps it was not an American structure, although one could find in it all the rare woods
and stones of the continent. Great numbers of foreign workmen were employed in its finishing
and decoration. One could wander in it from Pompeii to Japan, from India to Versailles, from
Greece to the England of the Tudors, from the Alhambra to colonial Salem. 

But what causes admiration is with much pride, even though only three hundred have or four men to take
up arms, because every year attempt to decimate the Mamalucos, and often also with Guaycurús
broken and destroyed.

Another small reason not retract them to be Christians, and that this nation is wandering, no firm
ever being many days in one place, are on the mainland today and tomorrow on some island, nor can
in any other way to live, as it supports hunting and fishing with, you can not always find
it in one place, and as Guaycurús, Charruas, birds and have no strength in Pampas land, and the
Payaguá in this river, and what would happen to them than to the birds, which twice Missionaries
and founded called reduction, and two to two, angry to live under one sky, turning to his old
habit of wandering fled, making it necessary These are coupled with Payaguá Wadding and Guaciarapos,
stable and permanent villages: but doing this union would cost more blood and sweat of it
to ride the success business.

With all that, the two zealous missionaries Joseph de Arce and Juan Bautista de Zea, wanted
this work is to put an attempt, paving the difficulties his zeal was so great that offered.
But P. Superior was of contrary opinion, not willing to risk the lives of these two apostolic workers,
with no other effect that we continue our journey, when to December 2 ran twice danger of shattering
the boat as we were. The first was in the morning, running aground on a sand, and went so deep
keel very laboriously, with the help of the other boats could refloat and remove outside the
arena. On this occasion with great affection pray to the Blessed
Virgin, and their favor, when we thought entered the water in many
places, it was found that had not had anything.

But more was the danger and the shock to come at night because the
wind blowing very loud and altered the river, and walking around the
ship at risk, suddenly gave a stumbling block and blind fury of water
and wind rock star in rock to throw it on the bank.

This surprised us all and we expected the shock that was to smash
and run risk our lives, but the gracious Lady wanted to give us the
grace fulfilled, leaving, both we and the boat safely from that risk.

A January 4 ordered P. Top three boats ahead to seek as sailing and
rowing before entering the port to take to Asuncion P. Juan Bautista
Neuman, who afflicted greatly from dysentery was reduced to little
more than the last stages of life.

Finally, on day 7, we all back at the port, where the land we went out to meet the Governor,
the nobility and the people in large crowds, they wanted in any case, even that we refuse, lead to
the school, where we had the sad news of death of this good Father. It came so hurt and finished
the work force by trip, was that in many weeks there could give him to eat anything but a
sad corrupted handful of corn, an hour after being in our school
went to receive the award the heavenly Jerusalem of so many jobs.

At his funeral attended by ecclesiastical and secular council and
all religions who wanted honor, as they said, the corpse of a holy
martyr, as it suffered the hardships and work for the glory of God
and the good of souls had finished.

A 9 of the same month we went to the Assumption to return to the Guarani, which lately, to
4 February, we finished as long voyage.

Nine months we spent on this trip; hannes missed sixteen Indians shortages
the food and dysentery that afflicted almost all of us and took us
to some Other missionaries had been killed over the serious detriment
of so many souls, to whose conversion were intended.

"So far the relationship of this trip.

Notable was the sense of P. Provincial seeing faded as effective means for attempt, but why
not leaving the company withdrew, and so last year following the visit the College of Tarija,
ordered Father Juan Patricio Fernández manufactures some canoes on the banks were believed to
be the Paraguay River, sent there to P. Miguel Yegros, Henry's brother
Adam, the Assumption, accompanying practical Xarayes vogadores mighty
river.

Father left point Juan Patricio with two partners and a hundred Indians from the village of San
Rafael for the month of October of that year, to see if that river, along which the P. Francisco
Herve had raised the cross, was the Paraguay, but three days' journey he found that seemed lost
in that river in a palm, not knowing where he was a close, with all eighty leagues that happened
later to recognize where was the cross, but getting there saw that
this was not the Paraguay River and its branch, but a large lake at
the time of Rainfall is spread through those valleys.

Descubríanse high mountains here between East and South, and believing that failure to deseadísimo
them run the river, determined to go there, as it did, the trip was uncomfortable and difficult,
because all he had to be at the top of the mountain, went through
some Rancheria Guarayos destroyed by Mamalucos found many gaps, registered
the largest and deep to see if it drained into the Paraguay River,
but all to no avail.

It was mid-December and the sky threatened to flood the campaign with the rains, which closed the
road for the return, but with all that, because so many jobs not remain frustrated wanted to
spend eight days in the company that many, and no longer seemed necessary to arrive at the shores
of Paraguay, as some Indians claimed old, who for some rugged mountains
before them, they remembered the country, where as boys walked with
his countrymen to move war against the Guarayos living along the river
to Paraguay.

They arrived there after eight days, having spent three open road in a thick forest, not find how
to quench the thirst but squeezing some roots called Bocurús.

Shortly later discovered a large lake surrounded by a crown of mountains to East opened the mouth,
where the lake discharging its waters, and encircled by the West a very thick forest. He asked
Fr Juan Patricio Fernández whether this gap would lead to in the Paraguay River to respondents who did
not know, but a Penoquí of those who escaped in the hands of Mamalucos he added that that
lake had entered the enemy to discourse and register the country,
and the band of the East discovered a sandy area where landing Mamalucos
said had left the canoes and taking way over land, had gone to hunt
Taus Indians.

Hearing this, he made a canoe at the time, but finding no tree on purpose, and being and in the
heart of winter, he was forced to turn back and leave the company
to better weather.

Dealing, then, to the people the food they had reserved for his journey
to the Assumption sent to the sand and recognize that the Mamalucos
way.

A two-day gave way such people in a small Rancheria Guarayos sixty souls that led him to the town of San
Juan Bautista, where they arrived safely on Saturday Saint of the same year.

Fr John Patrick and his companions spent twenty-five days to get into San Rafael, be, owing
to the rains innundada entire campaign, for which reason they were forced to walk barefoot, all
soaked with water, and was fortunate to run into the night with a mound, but swamp, where
to stop, but not to take some rest and breath in sleep not permit
the infinite multitude of mosquitoes and flies that produce moisture.

Many hardships, ill-treatment and these missionaries work caused serious illness and fortune
could they convalesce, but not the brother Enrique Adamo, who consumed and disposal of excessive
work and not having the strength to recover, passed on 27 July, 1705 to bliss, to receive the
reward of his labors.

This brother was a nurse in the Professed House of Rome, when coming to this court Fr Ignacio Frias,
attorney general of this province, was licensed general Father Tirso Gonzalez to come by your
partner and go to the Missions of the Guarani, where was to exercise
the same profession of nursing to this school in Cordoba, and from
there went to the Chiquitos missions, he always had great affection
and with his zeal and industry sought the progress of them, to die
in demand.

Guarayos that the residence in the San Juan Bautista were some who understood the language Castilian,
which could Fr Juan Patricio Fernández informed of Paraguay and the port where Mamalucos gave
news down to take the land of the Chiquitos and even they volunteered to go with him there.

Therefore, he sent some Indians to make way in the forests of the Taus, which reached Rancheria
to the last of these, situated at the foot of the mountains of Santa Cruz la Vieja, discovered
the peasants the intent of his trip, which dissuaded him saying they could not the animals to
stand by those hills so rugged and they point the way not so difficult, but all of the forest
but all full of streams and in some places dilated in fertile campaigns.

At

the beginning of August set out on his watch Fr P. Fernández Juan Bautista Xandra and two Guarayos,
halted in the land of Guarayos, where he found some Christian had come from the reduction of St.
Joseph to encourage these people to enlist under Flags of Christ, and got their claim because giving
up all his native soil were reduced to living in our reductions.

Parents They stopped here three days waiting for the neophytes who
had been sent to spy the new road, from here they continued their
journey, although bathed in sweat, being necessary to open way with
axes and picks a very thick forest, until they came in a beautiful
season hearing, which was opposite the lagoon Mamore, to where were
heading.

They came finally to the beach where they used to land the Mamalucos, where he found the P. Top five
long chains that were buried there those cruel men.

This beach is a strip of land, a few miles inside the lagoon, and flows eastward and divides
this lake into two inlets, one of which extends towards the north and another to the south, and
so by what he saw as he knew by relations of others, was certified
that the lake emptied into the river Paraguay.

Father wanted to advance and move forward, to which he let the Indians seeking a thick wood he
constructed a canoe, and they, not far from there, found a tree well apropos to the case,
which, arranged in a canoe and cast into the water, barely Chiquitos that came in under the oars
were primed Vogar, when flipped, and those poor fell into the water, where with great difficulty
out saying: "This is not for us."

But while I was very upset on that side the pond by the wind blowing, he ordered them Fr Fernández
pasasen the canoe to the other bay, but the Indians probing the deep waters not want to risk
again be in danger, he entreated her Father to you, at least would switch to the other side, which
also refused to be shown the danger that rushing stream of water knocked over the boat sank
and he could not be helped: it seemed chance and accident incident
would not suffer the intended effect as many errands and work suffered
by discovering the coveted port of Paraguay, but it was not singular
providence the Almighty, no less caring for his glory in the life
of his servants, because if our Missionaries of the Chiquitos reductions
down to that of the Guarani, fall into the hands of Payaguá, who had
vowed to avenge the death of their countrymen to death and havoc any
Spanish that they would find, as I wrote shortly after P. Provincial,
ordering that none of us come down there to the Guarani, and that
if there was already road, then turned to give the Chiquitos.

The cause of rupture was that when those five missionaries who earlier spoke of, they brought
to the city of Asunción noblest of that nation, were not they received from the city with a good
face, fearing that came to spy out the land and give them Suddenly
an assault and plunder, with all that, out of respect for our men,
treated courteously the Governor, and caressed by a thousand gifts
and presents are returned to their land.

Soon after, I do not know what the reason, the river ran through some
Spanish, and meeting with a squad of those barbarians were given a
closed loading musket, and death some others put to flight.

This peace was broken, and never will trust the Payaguá of us, let
alone the Spanish, but rather, are always alert to avenge the injury
received as have executed with much damage to all that government
of Paraguay.

CHAPTER IX

Múdanse Reductions to another place, goes to the Father Superior Tarija and disasters of the
neophytes.

Been occupied by P. Corporate boss who just referred, was not put into implementing the order
of P. Visitor of these reductions, José Pablo Castaneda that seek better and healthier place to
make back the reductions, and therefore wanted to This put it in
play, little to no help and spreading diseases.

Considered therefore, the most according to the health of those people, and to reduce to the bordering
nations faith, gladly found the neophytes who Reduction San Rafael be moved and planted on
a hill not far from its foundation, where is at present, with great advantage that there are
infidels to live and take home.

Reduction of San Juan Bautista moved to Zapoco, low water stream, but comfortable, to also joined
other infidels.

Reduction in St. Joseph, not the Indians cuadrales the site that was chosen to move it, it had
the best move to Santa Cruz la Vieja, in whose election, how well divined the uninitiated,
is discovered by the prosperous state that has always remained, and because scale to the infidel
nations of the Chaco.

It has not stopped, however, the devil to make their own, to pull
it from here seeing how damage has been followed to his party, but
discovered traces and tangles, dropped all to smoke.

The other of San Francisco Xavier was spent thirteen miles further
down the Normans and always has increased, so it has been necessary
to divide in other reductions.

Chosen as the location for the new foundation, ordered Fr Superior
is not launched factory, without having first seed and will have to
live on: but the people refused wait that long, and his eyes always
see death in a long time that climate inficcionado before the plague,
for which they were the parents need to follow the Indians, and P.
Superior, going to St. Joseph, found themselves missionaries, who
with his outfit were already starting to go to the neophytes.

From this it led to the town of Tarija to businesses that treat Christianity with the New Provincial
P. Blas de Silva, from the day 16 September 1706 ruled that province, bringing the practical Guarayos
Paraguay.

Therefore come at the said town, noted the news that had safe harbor in Paraguay River and the Indians
destined to be released for the Guarani, in order that Missionaries guide him safely to the other
Chiquitos.

In all this did little if Fr Provincial, saying that evidence would be like the past, that
no risk should take account either to other operators who worked Apostolic other parties with
the same glory of God and the good of souls. What were the Missionaries of the Chiquitos the
first to breach the road, that a contingency would not, at so coast, exposing other subjects in
this laborious undertaking. A can not replicate P. Fernández, waited more time to achieve their
desires: and to be as early as late December and closed roads with the rain, stayed in Tarija,
the government confirmed those Missions, and the following year of
1707 he returned to them with two other operators, the P. Paul Restivo,
Sicilian, former Missionary of Guarani, and P. Juan Bautista de Zea
with the office of Visitor, on behalf of the Provincial, who thought
to open new ground, because he had received order on P. Felipe Suarez
from the town of St. Joseph, smooth the way, paying San Miguel River,
because they saved many days of travel and got rid of the Fords Guapay
dangerous river and had come here to hunt once the Indian Chiriguaná
Penoquís, although they went wrong this invasion because of the Penoquís
caught in an ambush the stick went to all the bowels, and thus transferred
the rose in the air and put them on the sides of the road to sample
what they would do to others if moviesen to something like that.

Fr Suarez, for the month of May called his work the will of the Father Zea, but could not reach
until the Chiriguaná Rancherías not have with that support large
number of Indians Chiquitos, which paved the road.

With all that, taking in the sight of mountains that top inhabiting Chiriguaná was done with
two Indians to see if he found any Rancheria.

A few steps coming toward you saw one of the Chiriguaná, which terrified at the sight of P. Felipe,
as enemies, put the spurs to his horse, and arrived at his entire career Rancheria Mamalucos
gave notice that came with it was prevented for the defense and put up in arms all around. Therefore,
not having the father who would guide them and seeing abandoned its
Christians, turned to St. Joseph, and although unable to news of what
happened to P. Fernández, knew it in the Salinas Valley of voice that
was disclosed, which was surmised what had attempted P. Felipe.

At the end of September broke P. Fernandez to the Chiquitos, and arrived
at the land the Chiriguanos called Palmares, news was certain the
road had been opened the Chiquitos. A body has to have something to hold on to."

"Why, this seems pretty substantial," I said, wondering what the girl was driving at.

"Oh, yes; I suppose the world looks solid from a balloon. I heard one man say to another just
now, 'How long do you suppose Henderson will last?' Probably we shall all come down by the
run together by-and-by."

"You seem to be on a high plane," I suggested.

"I guess it's the influence of the earl. But I am the most misunderstood of women. What I really
like is simplicity. Can you have that without the social traditions," she appealed to the earl,
"such as you have in England?"

"I really cannot say," the earl replied, laughing. "I fancied there was simplicity in Brandon;
perhaps that was traditional."

"Oh, Brandon!" Carmen cried, "see what Brandon does when it gets a chance. I assure your lordship
that we used to be very simple people in New York. Come, let us go and tell Mrs. Henderson
how delightful it all is. I'm so sorry for her."

As I moved about afterwards with my wife we heard not many comments, a word here and there
about Henderson's wonderful success, a remark about Margaret's beauty, some sympathy for her
in such a wearisome ordeal--the world is full of kindness--the house duly admired, and the
ordinary compliments paid; the people assembled were, as usual, absorbed in their own affairs.
From all we could gather, all those present were used to living in a palace, and took all the
splendor quite as a matter of course. Was there no envy? Was there nothing said about the airs
of a country school-ma'am, the aplomb of an adventurer? Were there no criticisms afterwards
as the guests rolled home in their carriages, surfeited and exhausted? What would you have?
Do you expect the millennium to begin in New York?

The newspapers said that it was the most brilliant affair the metropolis had ever seen. I have
no doubt it was. And I do not judge, either, by the newspaper estimates of the expense. I take
the simple words addressed by the earl to Margaret, when he said good-night, at their full
value. She flushed with pleasure at his modest commendation. Perhaps it was to her the seal
of her night's triumph.

The house was opened. The world had seen it. The world had gone. If sleep did not come that
night to her tired head on the pillow, what wonder? She had a position in the great world.
In imagination it opened wider and wider. Could not the infinite possibilities of it fill the
hunger of any soul?

The echoes of the Henderson reception continued long in the country press. Items multiplied
as to the cost. It was said that the sum expended in flowers alone, which withered in a night,
would have endowed a ward in a charity hospital. Some wag said that the price of the supper
would have changed the result of the Presidential election. Views of the mansion were given
in the illustrated papers, and portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Henderson. In country villages, in
remote farmhouses, this great social event was talked of, Henderson's wealth was the subject
of conjecture, Margaret's toilet was an object of interest. It was a shining example of success.
Preachers, whose sensational sermons are as widely read as descriptions of great crimes, moralized
on Henderson's career and Henderson's palace, and raised up everywhere an envied image of worldly
prosperity. When he first arrived in New York, with only fifty cents in his pocket--so the
story ran-and walked up Broadway and Fifth Avenue, he had nearly been run over at the corner
of Twenty-sixth Street by a carriage, the occupants of which, a lady and gentleman, had stared
insolently at the country youth. Never mind, said the lad to himself, the day will come when
you will cringe to me. And the day did come when the gentleman begged Henderson to spare him
in Wall Street, and his wife intrigued for an invitation to Mrs. Henderson's ball. The reader
knows there is not a word of truth in this. Alas! said the preacher, if he had only devoted
his great talents to the service of the Good and the True! Behold how vain are all the triumphs
of this world! see the result of the worship of Mammon! My friends, the age is materialized,
a spirit of worldliness is abroad; be vigilant, lest the deceitfulness of riches send your
souls to perdition. And the plain country people thanked God for such a warning, and the country
girl dreamed of Margaret's career, and the country boy studied the ways of Henderson's success,
and resolved that he, too, would seek his fortune in this bad metropolis.

The Hendersons were important people. It was impossible that a knowledge of their importance
should not have a reflex influence upon Margaret. Could it be otherwise than that gradually
the fineness of her discrimination should be dulled by the almost universal public consent
in the methods by which Henderson had achieved his position, and that in time she should come
to regard adverse judgment as the result of envy? Henderson himself was under less illusion;
the world was about what he had taken it for, only a little worse--more gullible, and with
less principle. Carmen had mocked at Margaret's belief in Henderson. It is certainly a pitiful
outcome that Margaret, with her naturally believing nature, should in the end have had a less
clear perception of what was right and wrong than Henderson himself. Yet Henderson would not
have shrunk, any more than Carmen would, from any course necessary to his ends, while Margaret
would have shrunk from many things; but in absolute worldliness, in devotion to it, the time
had come when Henderson felt that his Puritan wife was no restraint upon him. It was this that
broke gentle Miss Forsythe's heart when she came fully to realize it.

I said that the world was at Margaret's feet. Was it? How many worlds are there, and does one
ever, except by birth (in a republic), conquer them all? Truth to say, there were penetralia
in New York society concerning which this successful woman was uneasy in her heart. There were
people who had accepted her invitations, to whose houses she had been, who had a dozen ways
of making her feel that she was not of them. These people--I suppose that if two castaways
landed naked on a desert island, one of them would instantly be the ancien regime--had spoken
of Mrs. Henderson and her ambition to the Earl of Chisholm in a way that pained him. They graciously
assumed that he, as one of the elect, would understand them. It was therefore with a heavy
heart that he came to say good-by to Margaret before his return.

I cannot imagine anything more uncomfortable for an old lover than a meeting of this sort;
but I suppose the honest fellow could not resist the inclination to see Margaret once more.
I dare say she had a little flutter of pride in receiving him, in her consciousness of the
change in herself into a wider experience of the world. And she may have been a little chagrined
that he was not apparently more impressed by her surroundings, nor noticed the change in herself,
but met her upon the ground of simple sincerity where they had once stood. What he tried to
see, what she felt he was trying to see, was not the beautiful woman about whose charm and
hospitality the town talked, but the girl he had loved in the old days.

He talked a little, a very little, about himself and his work in England, and a great deal
about what had interested him here on his second visit, the social drift, the politics, the
organized charities; and as he talked, Margaret was conscious how little the world in which
she lived seemed to interest him; how little importance he attached to it. And she saw, as
in a momentary vision of herself, that the things that once absorbed her and stirred her sympathies
were now measurably indifferent to her. Book after book which he casually mentioned, as showing
the drift of the age, and profoundly affecting modern thought, she knew only by name. "I guess,"
said Carmen, afterwards, when Margaret spoke of the earl's conversation, "that he is one of
those who are trying to live in the spirit--what do they call it?--care for things of the mind."

"You are doing a noble work," he said, "in your Palace of Industry."

"Yes, it is very well managed," Margaret replied; "but it is uphill work, the poor are so ungrateful
for charity."

"Perhaps nobody, Mrs. Henderson, likes to be treated as an object of charity."

"Well, work isn't what they want when we give it, and they'd rather live in the dirt than in
clean apartments."

"Many of them don't know any better, and a good many of our poor resent condescension."

"Yes," said Margaret, with warmth; "they are getting to demand things as their right, and they
are insolent. The last time I drove down in that quarter I was insulted by their manner. What
are you going to do with such people? One big fellow who was leaning against a lamp-post growled,
'You'd better stay in your own palace, miss, and not come prying round here.' And a brazen
girl cried out: 'Shut yer mouth, Dick; the lady's got to have some pleasure. Don't yer see,
she's a-slummin'?'"

"It's very hard, I know," said the earl; "perhaps we are all on the wrong track."

"Maybe. Mr. Henderson says that the world would get on better if everybody minded his own business."

"I wish it were possible," the earl remarked, with an air of finishing the topic. "I have just
been up to Brandon, Mrs. Henderson. I fear that I have seen the dear place for the last time."

"You don't mean that you are tired of America?"

"Not that. I shall never, even in thought, tire of Brandon."

"Yes, they are dear, good people."

"I thought Miss Forsythe--what a sweet, brave woman she is!--was looking sad and weary."

"Oh, aunt won't do anything, or take an interest in anything. She just stays there. I've tried
in vain to get her here. Do you know"--and she turned upon the earl a look of the old playfulness--"she
doesn't quite approve of me."

"Oh," he replied, hesitating a little--"I think, Mrs. Henderson, that her heart is bound up
in you. It isn't for me to say that you haven't a truer friend in the world."

"Yes, I know. If I'd only--" and she stopped, with a petulant look on her fair face--"well,
it doesn't matter. She is a dear soul."

"I--suppose," said the earl, rising, "we shall see you again on the other side?"

"Perhaps," with a smile. Could anything be more commonplace than such a parting? Good-by, I
shall see you tomorrow or next year, or in the next world. Hail and farewell! That is the common
experience. But, oh, the bitterness of it to many a soul!

It is quite possible that when the Earl of Chisholm said good-by, with an air of finality,
Margaret felt that another part of her life was closed. He was not in any way an extraordinary
person, he was not a very rich peer, probably with his modesty and conscientiousness, and devotion
to the ordinary duties of his station, he would never attain high rank in the government. Yet
no one could be long with him without apprehending that his life was on a high plane. It was
with a little irritation that Margaret recognized this, and remembered, with a twinge of conscience,
that it was upon that plane that her life once traveled. The time had been when the more important
thing to her was the world of ideas, of books, of intellectual life, of passionate sympathy
with the fortunes of humanity, of deepest interest in all the new thoughts struck out by the
leaders who studied the profound problems of life and destiny.

That peace of mind which is found only in the highest activity for the noblest ends she once
had, though she thought it then unrest and striving--what Carmen, who was under no illusions
about Henderson, or Uncle Jerry, or the world of fashion, and had an intuitive perception of
cant that is sometimes denied to the children of light, called "taking pleasure in the things
of the mind." To do Margaret justice, there entered into her reflections no thought of the
title and position of the Earl of Chisholm. They had never been alluring to her. If one could
take any satisfaction in this phase of her character, her worldiness was purely American.

"I hardly know which I should prefer," Carmen was saying when they were talking over the ball
and the earl's departure, "to be an English countess or the wife of an American millionaire."

"It might depend upon the man," replied Margaret, with a smile.

"The American," continued Carmen, not heeding this suggestion, "has the greater opportunities,
and is not hindered by traditions. If you were a countess you would have to act like a countess.
If you are an American you can act--like anything--you can do what you please. That is nicer.
Now, an earl must do what an earl has always done. What could you do with such a husband? Mind!
Yes, I know, dear, about things of the mind. First, you know, he will be a gentleman socialist
(in the magazines), and maybe a Christian socialist, or a Christian scientist, or something
of that sort, interested in the Mind Cure."

"I should think that would suit you. Last I knew, you were deep in the Mind Cure."

"So I was. That was last week. Now I'm in the Faith Cure; I've found out about both. The difference
is, in the Mind Cure you don't require any faith; in the Faith Cure you don't require any mind.
The Faith Cure just suits me."

"So you put your faith in an American millionaire?"

"Yes, I think I should, until an American millionaire put faith in me. That might shake me.
It is such a queer world. No, I'm in doubt. If you loved an earl he would stay an earl. If
you loved an American millionaire, ten to one he would fail."

Margaret did not escape the responsibility of her success. Who does? My dear Charmian, who
wrote the successful novel of last year, do you not already repent your rash act? If you do
not write a better novel this year, will not the public flout you and jeer you for a pretender?
Did the public overpraise you at first? Its mistaken partiality becomes now your presumption.
Last year the press said you were the rival of Hawthorne. This year it is, "that Miss Charmian
who set herself up as a second Hawthorne." When the new house was opened, it might be said
that socially Mrs. Henderson had "arrived." Had she? When one enters on the path of worldliness
is there any resting-place? Is not eternal vigilance the price of position?

Henderson was apparently on good terms with the world. Many envied him, many paid him the sincerest
flattery, that of imitation. He was a king in the street, great enterprises sought his aid,
all the charities knocked at his door, his word could organize a syndicate or a trust, his
nod could smash a "corner." There were fabulous stories about his wealth, about his luck. This
also was Margaret's world. Her ambition expanded in it with his. The things he set his heart
on she coveted. Alas! there is always another round to the ladder.

Seeing the means by which he gained his ends, and the public condonation of them, would not
his cynicism harden into utter unbelief in general virtue and goodness? I don't know that Henderson
changed much, accented as his grasping selfishness was on occasion; prosperity had not impaired
that indifferent good-fellowship and toleration which had early gained him popularity. His
presence was nowhere a rebuke to whatever was going on. He was always accessible, often jocular.
The younger members in the club said Henderson was a devilish good fellow, whatever people
said. The President of the United States used to send for him and consult him, because he wanted
no office; he knew men, and it was a relief to talk with a liberal rich man of so much bonhomie
who wanted nothing.

And Margaret, what view of the world did all this give her? Did she come in contact with any
one who had not his price, who was not going or wanting to go in the general current? Was it
not natural that she should take Henderson's view? Dear me, I am not preaching about her. We
did not see much of her in those days, and for one or two years of what I suppose was her greatest
enjoyment of her social triumphs. So far as we heard, she was liked, admired, followed, envied.
It could not be otherwise, for she did not lose her beauty nor her charm, and she tried to
please. Once when I saw her in the city and we fell into talk--and the talk was gay enough
and unconstrained--I was struck with a certain hardness of tone, a little bitterness quite
unlike her old self. It is a very hard thing to say, and I did not say it even to my wife,
but I had a painful impression that she was valuing people by the money they had, by the social
position they had attained.

Was she content in that great world in which she moved? I had heard stories of slights, of
stabs, of rebuffs, of spiteful remarks. Had she not come to know how success even in social
life is sometimes attained--the meannesses, the jealousies, the cringing? At times it also gave him a workout in the microscope, he brought a costly Germany
and began to examine and prepare diatoms admirably on some crystals that he cut. Finally, having
fallen into their hands a book about making beer, entregóse with zeal to the study, called
to England and started several other to imagine that perhaps in Sarrió be happy and get a result
with this huge profits unknown industry. It came up a factory. But having communicated the project
with his uncle, this man tried saw fit to launch a series of inarticulate cries outside all the
normal pitch, which ended he was heard to exclaim:

- What! A Cuevas got a beer! The son of a captain, the grandson of an admiral Navy! You are treeless, Gonzalo.
Well the saying goes that idleness is the mother of all vices. If you had entered the School
of Marine and I advised you to these hours would be a midshipman and first, and you'd be running
the world without thinking such antics.

Gonzalo was silent, but did not continue reading its manufacturing methods. Understanding that
without seeing for himself the main factories and without studying the matter seriously not
reach any results, it was decided to pursue a career in industrial engineering England. When
he threw himself to tell his uncle, not the ocean sounded bad engineer's name; but the adjective industrial
reawakened in his mind the same storm hatred and resentment that had produced the beer.

- Industrial, industrial! Today any shoeshine industrial flame. Become a goodly engineer of
roads, canals and ports, or mine.

By this time he met, or to speak more accurately, tried, since everyone knew Sarrió, his current
girlfriend, Miss Belinchón. One day his uncle sent him home from the wealthy merchant with instructions
to ask if I could give you a letter on Manila. Don Rosendo was not at his desk, he was on the ground
floor of the house, and how the business was urgent, Gonzalo decided
to climb.

The maid who opened was in a hurry.

- Come in, Don Gonzalo, Miss Cecilia will tell you where the Lord.

He entered a room in disarray, with piles of clothes on the floor and a table in the center where
the first daughter of the lords of Belinchón was aplanchado a shirt
dress with no appropriate to their category.

A vestidillo frayed and a handkerchief tied around the waist as the
artisans; slippers on his feet quite used.

Did not blush because the young man found in that herding or as low
occupancy, and cried like many others would do in your case:

- Jesus,
how I found you! - Bringing his hands to the hair and throat.

Not so.

A moment suspended their work, smiled sweetly and waited for the young speak.

- Good afternoon - he said, turning red.

- Good afternoon, Gonzalo - she replied.

- Can you see your dad?

- I do not know if you are at home. I'll see - said the young, leaving
the iron on the table and passing ahead of him.

When they had gone
a bit, he turned to ask:

- Does your guy is good?

- Yes, ma'am,
yes ... I mean, no ... For some days not getting out of bed ... Has
a bad cold.

- Do not be a thing of care?

- I think not, ma'am.

The
young man went on his way smiling. That
her loss of interest in things intellectual, in a wide range of topics of human welfare, which
is in the individual soul a sign of warmth and growth, made her less companionable to some
is true, but her very absorption in the life of her world made her much more attractive to
others. I well remember a dinner one day at the Hendersons', when Mr. Morgan and I happened
to be in town, and the gay chat and persiflage of the society people there assembled. Margaret
shone in it. The light and daring touch of her raillery Carmen herself might have envied, and
the spirit in which she handled the trifles and personal gossip tossed to the surface, like
the bubbles on the champagne.

It was such a pretty picture--the noble diningroom, the table sparkling with glass and silver
and glowing with masses of choicest flowers from the conservatory, the animated convives, and
Margaret presiding, radiant in a costume of white and gold.

"After all," Morgan was saying, apropos of the position of women, "men get mighty little out
of it in the modern arrangement."

"I've always said, Mr. Morgan," Margaret retorted, "that you came into the world a couple of
centuries too late; you ought to have been here in the squaw age."

"Well, men were of some account then. I appeal to Henderson," Morgan persisted, "if he gets
more than his board and clothes."

"Oh, my husband has to make his way; he's no time for idling and philosophizing round."

"I should think not. Come, Henderson, speak up; what do you get out of it?"

"Oh," said Henderson, glancing at his wife with an amused expression, "I'm doing very well.
I'm very well taken care of, but I often wonder what the fellows did when polygamy was the
fashion."

"Polygamy, indeed!" cried Margaret. "So men only dropped the a pluribus unum method on account
of the expense?"

"Not at all," replied Henderson. "Women are so much better now than formerly that one wife
is quite enough."

"You have got him well in hand, Mrs. Henderson, but--" Morgan began.

"But," continued Margaret for him, "you think as things are going that polyandry will have
to come in fashion--a woman will need more than one husband to support her?" Her oval face seemed
made of roses and carnations. Apretadita meat and small in stature, so wisely provided by Nature,
that seemed modeled in wax. His hands were jasmine and Creole feet, held in Sarrió ever seen,
the softness and smoothness of her skin, expired at the pearl and alabaster. On the forehead,
high and narrow as those of Venus Greek, a white Argentine fell loops of her hair blond, as
a skein, so thick as docile and bright, entirely covered his back to below the waist.

- Make fun of your sister, picarilla, you'll soon do the same!

- "I pray for a man? You dotage, Don Mateo.

- You'll tell me soon - said the old man going to another stage to greet the Maza.

In this Pablito approached that of their parents, bringing in your company deserves a faithful friend
special mention. He was the son of the chopper was in the town, and boy that his figure could
be the delight of the spectators in a circus acrobats. Nothing needed to add to his person, powders
or flour, or vermilion, or soot to be converted into clown. He was a clown 'Natural'. His nose
and vividly colored by nature, their crooked eyes, the absence tab, its pitch, the crazy shoulder
width, the arch of his legs and, above all, the grotesque grimace that accompanies the talk
or growl, causing laughter, without wigs and makeup. Pisces knew well (as it was called or was
called) and it was deeply sorry and even angry. To counter these native provisions comic of his
face, never had determined not to laugh, and keep his promise faithfully. In addition, for
the same effect used his words wisely interspersed with more harsh expletives and fearful of the
national repertoire, and several of his particular invention. But this, instead of producing
the desired effect, helped to awaken the joy among acquaintances.

The only somewhat took him seriously was Pablito. Pisces and Pablito were born to love and admire.
The point of conjunction of these two stars was the horses gender. Pisces, trained by his
father since childhood, was the best rider Sarrió, therefore Pablito for the person most worthy of admiration.
Rosendo's son was the boy in rich people: for Pisces, must be, of
course, the most respectable and worthy of veneration that was on
the planet. What does he get out of his occupation? He can look at the flower. Perhaps that
is enough. He gets a good dinner when he has time for it, an hour at his club now and then,
occasionally an evening or half a day off at home, a decent wardrobe--"

"Fifty-two suits," interposed Margaret.

"His own brougham--"

"And a four-in-hand," added Margaret.

"A pass on the elevated road--"

"And a steam-yacht."

"Which he never gets time to sail in; practically all the time on the road, or besieged by
a throng in his office, hustled about from morning till night, begged of, interviewed, a telegraphic
despatch every five minutes, and--"

"And me!" cried Margaret, rising. The guests all clapped their hands.

The Hendersons liked to have their house full, something going on--dinners, musicales, readings,
little comedies in the theatre; there was continual coming and going, calling, dropping in
for a cup of tea, late suppers after the opera; the young fellows of town found no place so
agreeable for a half-hour after business as Mrs. Henderson's reception-room. I fancied that
life would be dull and hang heavily, especially for Margaret, without this perpetual movement
and excitement. Henderson, who certainly had excitement enough without seeking it at home,
was pleased that his wife should be a leader in society, as he was in the great enterprises
in which his fortune waxed to enormous proportions. About what we call the home life I do not
know. Necessarily, as heretofore, Henderson was often absent, and whether Margaret accompanied
him or not, a certain pace of life had to be kept up. 

"Being in this pious spoil, distrust the Santacruzeños not attacked them in greater numbers the infidels,
and despite having left their mules maneadas many miles away to into the woods to the place of
martyrdom, called for God through the intercession of the Venerable martyr, relief, just made
this prayer when they heard a loud noise judged be enemies came upon them, which took up arms,
but were were shocked when they saw the mules, which the Maneas loose, came from as far running
right to where they were. "

Taken with great reverence the holy body and lead to conception, asking P. Benavente, in pay for this
work, some pieces of heirloom dresses, which were lost denied, see their pity and affection,
and it seems that God wanted to honor the merit and zeal his servant, with many miracles that
I miss now.

They could, however, those pious Spanish give the barbarians deserved murderers because they
tormented the conscience and your sin, fled to various parts, them went through the forests
and jungles, but even were spared the righteous indignation Spanish, could not be freed from
the hands of God, for the first of which Puyzocas dared to dip into the V. Father's cassock,
paid in a few days the rash Dare to disastrous death, the others died of the plague consumed,
rather than the greater punishment than that nation fulminated against the sky was left at his
infidelity, then so far we do not know any of that nation, hating their errors has been reduced
the flock of Christ.

Although I said so far we can infer the holiness of the Apostolic Mission, with all that, I
will not defraud his merit glory and to us the example of heroic virtues, good to be with
all speed.

Man was almost unmatched in the zeal of expand the knowledge of God and reduce faith to the holy
souls, truly worthy of being counted among those who tradiderunt animas suas pro nomine Domini
Jesu Christi.

His conmisioneros speak of him with singular esteem, and does not need to get another very bold
the dangers and risks, when the law was to take God among the barbarians
and infidels; and I have heard by a Superior him wonder not just how
to be delicate complexion, and sickly, could not tolerate so many
hardships and have so much encouragement and strength when he undertook
a God's service business, which is added to working in a very intemperate
climate, little healthy to the natives, much less to outsiders.

It was equipped with such angelic chastity, who died with the fortitude virginal, not breaded
or even with the slightest shade of stain, before looking in a climate that dominates the lust So
and among people very dissolute in dishonesty, reached the sky than those temptations and stimuli
to which he had to be restrained, by universal penalty for sin or
evil suggestion infernal enemy, he commuted to another subject, so
do not be tempted to lose This precious jewel, and meanwhile no shortage
of domestic enemies to overcome.

He had a heroic degree the virtue of obedience to the great truth that evidence that she had,
would have yielded a less rendered will, saw before him a large number infidels who asked
the holy baptism, and obedience to contain their zeal ardientísimo administrársele not to be
invited to establish new reductions, the resulting large benefit to the souls, and much glory
to God, and to a hint of Superior does not move the Instead it was marked; withdraw suddenly from
the places where he had copious harvest souls, were the times he
had this holy man that flaunt their heroic obedience, holding and
paying his own will and even his trial.

"Dear, dear aunt, I knew you would come--I love you so;" she had tried to raise herself a little
in her bed, and was sobbing like a child in her aunt's arms.

"You must have courage, Margaret; it will all be well."

"Yes, but I'm so discouraged; I'm so tired."

The vigil began. The nurses were in waiting. The family physician would not leave the house.
He was a man of great repute in his profession. Dr. Seftel's name was well known to me, but
I had never met him before; a man past middle life, smooth shaven, thin iron-gray hair, grave,
usually taciturn, deliberate in all his movements, as if every gesture were important and significant,
but with a kindly face. Knowing that every moment of his waking life was golden, I could not
but be impressed with the power that could command his exclusive service for an indefinite
time. When he came down, we talked together in Henderson's room.

"It is a question of endurance, of constitution," he said; "many weak women have this quality
of persistence; many strong women go to pieces at once; we know little about it. Mrs. Henderson"--glancing
about him--"has everything to live for; that's in her favor. I suppose there are not two other
men in the country whose fortune equals Henderson's."

I do not know how it was, probably the patient was not forgotten, but in a moment the grave
doctor was asking me if I had seen the last bulletin about the yacht regatta. He took the keenest
interest in the contest, and described to me the build and sailing qualities of the different
yachts entered, and expressed his opinion as to which would win, and why. From this he passed
to the city government and the recent election--like a true New Yorker, his chief interest
centred in the city politics and not in the national elections. Without the least unbending
from his dignity, he told me many anecdotes about city politicians, which would have been amusing
if I had not been anxious about other things.

The afternoon passed, and the night, and the day, I cannot tell how. The boat started to turn on it.

- Are you going to tie you to the ground, Domingo? - Asked Don Melchor.

-
Yes, sir - said the captain.

- No need; amárrate in two.

Within an hour you enmendarte.

- Both one and the other cost me - whispered the captain, shrugging
his shoulders, and then said aloud:

- Check the manual!

Another crashed into the sea anchor with the same noise.

- How do you go to you, man?

"- Said a sweet voice and manly from aboard.

- Hello, Gonzalito. "You're good, my son?

- Ideally, I'm going there right now.

And they came down with great agility for a cable to the boat.

- We will wait - Rosendo said getting to walk.

But the hand of M. de las Cuevas and grabbed her by the arm tongs.

- Where are you going, man?

- What is that? - Asked the frightened owner .-- Ah, true!

I remember we were in the second wall! ... The darkness ... So much time here ... Dizziness to
be with the view Fixed ... on the boat ... My God! What would become of me if you do not hand me
down?
- Well then, you would have broken my brains against the stones below.

-
Jesus! - Rosendo said getting awfully pale. His forehead covered in
a cold sweat and his legs quaked.

- Do not be afraid by what has
already happened, dude. Let's go down to receive Gonzalito.

Fell
in effect at the dock, where he had to leap a tall, blond, handsome
appearance, wearing a long overcoat that almost reached his feet.

-
Uncle!

- Gonzalo!

They moved closer, until they were embracing the
two giants. Rosendo also greeted warmly to the young, but was so preoccupied
with the danger he had run its existence, which instantly turned to
be dark and gloomy. She could hardly answer the questions that the
foreman made him, asking for instructions on behalf of the master.

A day and a night, and another day--and then! It was Miss Forsythe who came down to me, with
strained eyes and awe in her face. It needed no words. She put her face upon my shoulder, and
sobbed as if her heart were broken.

I could not stay in the house. I went out into the streets, the streets brilliant in the sun
of an autumn day, into the town, gay, bustling, crowded, pulsing with vigorous life. How blue
the sky was! The sparrows twittered in Madison Square, the idlers sat in the sun, the children
chased their hoops about the fountain.

I wandered into the club. The news had preceded me there. More than one member in the reading-room
grasped my hand, with just a word of sympathy. Two young fellows, whom I had last seen at the
Henderson dinner, were seated at a small table.

"It's rough, Jack"--the speaker paused, with a match in his hand--"it's rough. I'll be if she
was not the finest woman I ever knew."

My wife and I were sitting in the orchestra stalls of the Metropolitan. The opera was Siegfried.
At the close of the first act, as we turned to the house, we saw Carmen enter a box, radiant,
in white. Henderson followed, and took a seat a little in shadow behind her. There were others
in the box. There was a little movement and flutter as they came in and glasses were turned
that way.

"Married, and it is only two years," I said.

"It is only a year and eight months," my wife replied.

And the world goes on as cheerfully and prosperously as ever.