Under him, Count Gallas commanded, who performed the functions of commander-in-chief, while
the prince brought to this post nothing but his name and dignity.  A considerable force was
soon assembled under Ferdinand; the Duke of Lorraine brought up a considerable body of auxiliaries
in person, and the Cardinal Infante joined him from Italy with 10,000 men.  In order to drive
the enemy from the Danube, the new general undertook the enterprise in which his predecessor
had failed, the siege of Ratisbon.  In vain did Duke Bernard of Weimar penetrate into the interior
of Bavaria, with a view to draw the enemy from the town; Ferdinand continued to press the siege
with vigour, and the city, after a most obstinate resistance, was obliged to open its gates
to him. Donauwerth soon shared the same fate, and Nordlingen in Swabia was now invested.  The
loss of so many of the imperial cities was severely felt by the Swedish party; as the friendship
of these towns had so largely contributed to the success of their arms, indifference to their
fate would have been inexcusable.  It would have been an indelible disgrace, had they deserted
their confederates in their need, and abandoned them to the revenge of an implacable conqueror.
Moved by these considerations, the Swedish army, under the command of Horn, and Bernard of
Weimar, advanced upon Nordlingen, determined to relieve it even at the expense of a battle.

The undertaking was a dangerous one, for in numbers the enemy was greatly superior to that
of the Swedes.  There was also a further reason for avoiding a battle at present; the enemy's
force was likely soon to divide, the Italian troops being destined for the Netherlands.  In
the mean time, such a position might be taken up, as to cover Nordlingen, and cut off their
supplies.  All these grounds were strongly urged by Gustavus Horn, in the Swedish council of
war; but his remonstrances were disregarded by men who, intoxicated by a long career of success,
mistook the suggestions of prudence for the voice of timidity.  Overborne by the superior influence
of Duke Bernard, Gustavus Horn was compelled to risk a contest, whose unfavourable issue, a
dark foreboding seemed already to announce.  The fate of the battle depended upon the possession
of a height which commanded the imperial camp.  An attempt to occupy it during the night failed,
as the tedious transport of the artillery through woods and hollow ways delayed the arrival
of the troops.  When the Swedes arrived about midnight, they found the heights in possession
of the enemy, strongly entrenched.  They waited, therefore, for daybreak, to carry them by
storm.  Their impetuous courage surmounted every obstacle; the entrenchments, which were in
the form of a crescent, were successfully scaled by each of the two brigades appointed to the
service; but as they entered at the same moment from opposite sides, they met and threw each
other into confusion.  At this unfortunate moment, a barrel of powder blew up, and created
the greatest disorder among the Swedes.  The imperial cavalry charged upon their broken ranks,
and the flight became universal.  No persuasion on the part of their general could induce the
fugitives to renew the assault.

He resolved, therefore, in order to carry this important post, to lead fresh troops to the
attack.  But in the interim, some Spanish regiments had marched in, and every attempt to gain
it was repulsed by their heroic intrepidity.  One of the duke's own regiments advanced seven
times, and was as often driven back.  The disadvantage of not occupying this post in time,
was quickly and sensibly felt.  The fire of the enemy's artillery from the heights, caused
such slaughter in the adjacent wing of the Swedes, that Horn, who commanded there, was forced
to give orders to retire.  Instead of being able to cover the retreat of his colleague, and
to check the pursuit of the enemy, Duke Bernard, overpowered by numbers, was himself driven
into the plain, where his routed cavalry spread confusion among Horn's brigade, and rendered
the defeat complete.  Almost the entire infantry were killed or taken prisoners.  More than
12,000 men remained dead upon the field of battle; 80 field pieces, about 4,000 waggons, and
300 standards and colours fell into the hands of the Imperialists.  Horn himself, with three
other generals, were taken prisoners.  Duke Bernard with difficulty saved a feeble remnant
of his army, which joined him at Frankfort.

The defeat at Nordlingen, cost the Swedish Chancellor the second sleepless night he had passed
in Germany.--[The first was occasioned by the death of Gustavus Adolphus.]--The consequences
of this disaster were terrible.  The Swedes had lost by it at once their superiority in the
field, and with it the confidence of their confederates, which they had gained solely by their
previous military success.  A dangerous division threatened the Protestant Confederation with
ruin.  Consternation and terror seized upon the whole party; while the Papists arose with exulting
triumph from the deep humiliation into which they had sunk. Swabia and the adjacent circles
first felt the consequences of the defeat of Nordlingen; and Wirtemberg, in particular, was
overrun by the conquering army.  All the members of the League of Heilbronn trembled at the
prospect of the Emperor's revenge; those who could, fled to Strasburg, while the helpless free
cities awaited their fate with alarm. A little more of moderation towards the conquered, would
have quickly reduced all the weaker states under the Emperor's authority; but the severity
which was practised, even against those who voluntarily surrendered, drove the rest to despair,
and roused them to a vigorous resistance.

In this perplexity, all looked to Oxenstiern for counsel and assistance; Oxenstiern applied
for both to the German States.  Troops were wanted; money likewise, to raise new levies, and
to pay to the old the arrears which the men were clamorously demanding.  Oxenstiern addressed
himself to the Elector of Saxony; but he shamefully abandoned the Swedish cause, to negociate
for a separate peace with the Emperor at Pirna.  He solicited aid from the Lower Saxon States;
but they, long wearied of the Swedish pretensions and demands for money, now thought only of
themselves; and George, Duke of Lunenburg, in place of flying to the assistance of Upper Germany,
laid siege to Minden, with the intention of keeping possession of it for himself.  Abandoned
by his German allies, the chancellor exerted himself to obtain the assistance of foreign powers.
England, Holland, and Venice were applied to for troops and money; and, driven to the last
extremity, the chancellor reluctantly resolved to take the disagreeable step which he had so
long avoided, and to throw himself under the protection of France.

