 Her life became one almost unbroken fast, and she was often known to
pass a week at a time without any other food than the heavenly manna of daily communion. To
such perfection did she carry her spirit of poverty, that after making the simple vow in the
Third Order, she would live only on alms, taking her rest on a mat or a bundle of faggots,
with a stone for her pillow. Thus, as years went on, her ever increasing beauty of Soul, seemed
even more than her remarkable external attractions, to give literal significance to her name,--Angela,
the Angel.

But her personal sanctification, although her first, was not her only aim. God had called her
to work for other souls as well as her own, and her apostolic vocation began early to assert
itself. The deplorable decay of faith and piety among nominal Christians of her day, weighed
heavily on her heart. Not content with simply lamenting the growing evil, she longed for the
power to check it. But how could she? How could a feeble woman arrest an impetuous torrent?
Again and again she asked herself the question, and again and again, clearer than the heaven's
light, came the answer;--if the vices of the adult generation were traceable in a great degree
to the want of early Christian training--as who could doubt?--was it not manifest that the
only check to the transmission of its irreligious spirit, was the careful education of the
young? Yes; let the ignorant be taught, and little by little God's work would be done. Success
might at first be small, but it would be certain. Each mind enlightened, would be a heart converted,
and even one was worth labouring for. The single child trained to piety, would at a future
day become a religious mother, capable of imparting to her own family the holy impressions
which she had herself received; the circle of good would go on extending for ever, and only
God could see its final limits. Thus Angela reasoned, and without delay she determined to carry
out her conclusions.

It was about her twenty-first year that she began her labour of zeal and love, by assembling
the little children of Dezenzano for catechism, and instructing a vast number of adults in
the Christian doctrine. Her assistants were four in number, and like herself members of the
Third Order of St. Francis. It was but a diminutive plant that sprang at first from the seed
then deposited in the garden of God, but the blessing of the Most High rested on the feeble
seedling, and in that divine sunshine it throve and grew, until at last it expanded into a
great tree, of which the historian Time can tell no tale, save that although ages and storms
have passed over it, its heart is fresh, its growth is steady, and its roots are firm to-day,
as in the early years, when sown by the hand, and fostered by the care of Angela, it gave its
young promise of luxuriance and stability. Though she did not live to witness the full realization
of that promise, she was permitted to foresee its accomplishment in a celestial vision granted
her much about the period of the opening of her apostolate at Dezenzano. One day, while praying
with great earnestness for Divine guidance, a high ladder, like that shown to Jacob, suddenly
appeared before her. One end of it rested on the ground, the other touched the heavens. Down
this ladder, a resplendent band of virgins slowly descended, moving two and two with perfectly
regularity, and accompanied by angels. Their number was very great; their garments were rich;
their crowns were studded with gems of wondrous beauty, and they sang a sweet canticle, to
which their angelic guardians responded in choir. Overwhelmed with astonishment, she looked
and listened, utterly unable to comprehend the mystery. At last she recognised in the procession
a beloved companion recently deceased, who told her to take courage, for that she was the instrument
chosen by the Almighty to establish at Brescia a society of virgins similar to those she then
beheld. The revelation was too convincing to leave room for doubt, yet so profound was the
saint's humility, so deep her sense of her own unworthiness and incapacity, that she permitted
full forty year to pass without taking any decided measures for its accomplishment. The vision,
however, served to add new fire to her zeal for the Divine honour, and to intensify her already
ardent love for her neighbour. She became absolutely indefatigable in her efforts for the diffusion
of religious instruction, the reconciliation of enemies, the consolation of the afflicted,
and the conversion of sinners, sparing neither time, fatigue, nor even frequent journeys in
furtherance of these and similar objects of charity; working among the poor from preference,
but never refusing her help to those also of the better class who sought it. But holy and profitable
as was the work at Dezenzano, she knew all along that it was only preparatory to the greater
work at Brescia. "Take courage, Angela," said the prophecy, "for thou shall found a company
of virgins such as these at Brescia." The prediction was explicit as to her future destiny,
but vague as to the period of fulfilment. To that there might be still, as there had already
been, a long delay, but she believed that in His own time, the Almighty would provide for its
accomplishment, and for that time she waited tranquilly, devoting herself meanwhile to her
humble labours at Dezenzano as entirely as if she had not known full well that Dezenzano was
not her ultimate destination. And in His own time God did interpose. By means apparently the
most simple and natural, his ever- watchful Providence prepared the way at last for her removal
to Brescia, using as its instruments, two distinguished inhabitants of that city, whose names
her historians have handed down to us, Jerom Patengola and his virtuous consort Catherine.
It happened that this pious couple had some years before become acquainted with Saint Angela,
in one of their annual visits to their large estates near Dezenzano, and finding the intimacy
highly conducive to their spiritual interests, they had cultivated it assiduously. In 1516,
it pleased God to deprive them in rapid succession of their only children, two daughters, in
whom their hearts and earthly hopes were centred. In the excess of their anguish, they turned
for comfort to their saintly friend, beseeching her to come to them without delay. They had
been kind benefactors to her little society, gratitude therefore, as well as charity, pleaded
their cause with her sisters and her spiritual advisers, who all agreed that such claims were
irresistible. Looking on the decision as a manifestation of the Divine will, she accordingly
left Dezenzano where for twenty years she had pursued her mission of love, and proceeded to
Brescia, the city of the promise, having first secured that the work at Dezenzano should be
continued by her sisters whom she intended to rejoin as soon as possible.

Her visit to Brescia proved a source not only of immense consolation to her sorrowing friends,
but of spiritual benefit to the whole city. To win all to God by prayer, instruction, and example,
was still as ever, the aim of her life. Attracted by the reputation of her sanctity, as well
as of her natural abilities and supernatural enlightenment, persons of every rank came to her
for advice, and all withdrew benefited by her counsels, filled with admiration of her wisdom,
and edified by her equally striking charity, sweetness and humility. It was about this period
that she received an infused knowledge of Latin, which she could understand, speak and translate
without having learned it; also of the holy Scriptures, on the most difficult passages of which
she could comment with wonderful ease and unction.

Her original intention had been, as we have seen, to return to Dezenzano, as soon as her work
of charity in Brescia was completed; she had not however been long in the latter city, when
she became convinced that God willed her to remain there. The memorable vision of bygone years
had assuredly never at any time faded from her memory; it must on the contrary have formed
the constant subject of her communications with God, but after her removal to Brescia, it pursued
her with an almost painful persistence. Not once only, but continuously, uninterruptedly, it
stood before her in all the distinctness of its first vivid colouring, and all the minuteness
of its smallest details, so that whatever her occupations, alone or conversing with others,
in the church and in her room, at all times and in all places, she seemed ever to see the mysterious
ladder with its glorious throng of gem-crowned virgins and dazzling angels; she seemed ever
to hear the words of the yet unrealized promise, "Take courage, Angela, for thou shalt found
a company of virgins like to these at Brescia." Concluding at last that this almost importunate
voice from the past, must be intended as a warning to guide her movements in the present, she
prayed with all the earnestness of her soul that the Almighty would manifest His designs, and
enable her by His grace to carry them out most perfectly. In answer to her prayer she clearly
understood that God willed her to remain at Brescia, and she accordingly established herself
in a retired lodging in the town, there to continue her career of zeal and usefulness;--but
many years more were to elapse before the foundation of her Order.

Pilgrimages to consecrated spots seem to have been one of her favourite practices of piety.
Two years after her arrival at Brescia, she made one to the tomb of the Venerable Mother Hosanna
Andreassi, a religious of the Order of St. Dominick; who had lately died at Mantua in the odour
of sanctity. Six years later, in 1524, her ardent love of our Divine Redeemer prompted her
to undertake a journey of devotion to the Holy Land. On the way, God was pleased to test her
love of the cross by a most severe affliction. Just as the vessel touched the port of Canea
in the island of Candia, which she was the first to discern, she was in one instant struck
with total blindness, to the inexpressible sorrow and consternation of her companions. The
trial was a peculiarly painful one, and it served to display the heroism of her virtue in a
clearer light than ever. She accepted it in the spirit of the saints, and refusing the kind
offers of her friends to accompany her back to Italy, she completed the journey to Palestine,
now attended with so much additional difficulty. In the Holy Land, she redoubled her habitual
most rigorous fasts and other austerities, and as if to compensate for being denied a sight
of the blessed places which she had come so far to see, she poured out her heart's love over
them with a seraphic fervour which sensibly affected the spectators. On her journey homewards,
her patient submission was rewarded by the recovery of her sight at the very place where she
had lost it. This favour was granted her while she prayed with great devotion before a celebrated
image of the Crucifixion, exposed to public veneration in one of the churches of the town.
After a narrow escape from shipwreck, she reached Venice, and so strong was the impression
of her sanctity produced in that city by the reports of her companion pilgrims, that she was
earnestly entreated to fix her abode there, and take charge of some of its institutions of
charity. Tempting as was the offer, she resolutely declined it, for she knew that God's will
called her to Brescia, where after an absence of six months, she returned, to the great joy
of the inhabitants.

But before again settling down to her old manner of life in this home of her adoption, she
had yet another journey of devotion to accomplish. Next to the consecrated land of Palestine,
Catholic Rome had ever presented the strongest attractions to her faith and piety. She longed
to pray at the shrine of the Princes of the Apostles; to kiss the soil, bedewed with their
blood, and as a faithful daughter of the Church, to kneel at the feet of God's visible representative,
and beg his blessing on her projected work. The publication of the great Jubilee of 1525, by
Pope Clement VII., supplied a fitting opportunity of carrying out her pious wishes. In company
with one of the numerous bands of pilgrims who thronged the ways, she proceeded to the holy
City, and here, not only had she the consolation of receiving the benediction of his Holiness,
but she was honoured by an invitation from him to remain permanently at Rome, and accept the
superintendence of some of the public institutions for the sick poor. This offer she humbly
declined like that at Venice, and for the same reasons, and returning once more to Brescia,
resumed her life of retirement, mortification and charity. At the end of nearly four years,
she was unexpectedly compelled to leave the city once again. The Duchy of Milan was at this
time passing through a severe political crisis. It had long been the theatre of a disastrous
struggle originating in the pretensions of the French Kings, Louis XII. and Francis I., to
the reversion of its crown, and as a portion of the Duchy, Brescia had been more or less involved
in the troubles of the times. In 1529, the date which we have reached, the war had lasted for
many years, and with varied success; Louis and Francis had each in turn won and lost the prize.
One Duke of Milan, Ludovico Sforza, had died a prisoner in France; another, Maximilian, had
resigned his claim; a third, Francis, had fled from his dominions. In 1525, Francis I. of France
had been totally defeated at Pavia by the confederate princes, at the head of whom was the
Emperor Charles V., but this event had not pacified the distracted country, as might have been
hoped. The victorious imperial troops continued to overrun the north of Italy, and serious
apprehensions were entertained, that in the flush of success, they would lay siege to Brescia.
Rather than risk a renewal of the horrors of the first siege in 1512, many of the inhabitants
determined to abandon the city without delay. Among others, Angela was induced to accompany
a family of her acquaintance to the neighbouring town of Cremona. Here she was visited as usual
by numbers of persons of all conditions seeking advice or consolation, and among others by
the fugitive Duke of Milan, Francis Sforza, who in his reverses had sought an asylum at Brescia,
and thence followed the refugees to Cremona. He had already met the saint during his stay at
Brescia, and her gentle counsels had materially helped him to meet his afflictions in the spirit
of Christian resignation. Angela was happily instrumental to many signal conversions at Cremona,
but her active career was suddenly arrested by an illness which brought her apparently to the
gates of death. There seemed little human probability that so utterly exhausted a frame could
resist so violent a malady, but she had yet a work to do, and ardently as she sighed for her
heavenly country, her exile was to be prolonged until that work had been accomplished. Contrary
to expectation, she recovered under circumstances deemed miraculous, and in thanksgiving for
her wondrous restoration, made a pilgrimage in company with other devout persons to a renowned
sanctuary of our Blessed Lady in the environs. On the conclusion of peace in 1530, she returned
to Brescia after six months' absence.

Although in her humility and self-distrust she still shrank as much as ever from the responsibility
of founding a religious Order, she could not conceal from herself that the time had come, when,
for various reasons, decisive measures should no longer be deferred. Urged onwards by the counsels
of her director, as well as by the voice of inspiration, she therefore determined at last to
take the definite, though only preparatory step, of assembling a few companions whom she could
gradually initiate in her views and form to the intended institute. Accordingly, about the
end of the year 1533, she proposed to twelve pious ladies of the town to associate themselves
with her in a life of prayer and good works, to which they readily agreed. She then explained
to them the nature and object of the future foundation in which they would one day be expected
to co-operate with her, at the same time suggesting the necessity of a certain course of preliminary
training under her personal direction. With one accord they placed themselves wholly at the
disposal of the saintly Mother, who devoted herself with all the ardour of her zeal to imbue
them thoroughly with the true spirit of the holy state to which they aspired. She allowed them
to reside with their families as before, but required that they should assemble every day in
a common oratory for prayer and instruction, and employ their time in the particular works
of charity appointed at the daily meetings. These were held at first in a room given to the
saint by the Canons of the Church of St. Afra; it adjoined the church, which enabled her to
spend a considerable portion of the night in prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. Being soon
found too small for a general oratory, a more commodious one was substituted through the generosity
of a pious widow.

For two years more, no farther progress was made. Angela was sixty-one, and the prophetic vision
of full forty years before, was but a vision still. When would it become a reality? Soon now,
for our Lord Himself was about to interpose, and by mingled reproach and reproof, to conquer
the irresolution of His humble servant. Condescending to appear to her in person, He reprimanded
her for her hesitation, thus at once overwhelming her with regret and confusion, and dispelling
every lingering shadow of doubt as to His designs. A moment's hesitation after this would have
seemed too long; she commenced her preparations at once, and on the feast of St. Catherine,
November 25th, 1535, just one year after the establishment of the Society of Jesus, she inaugurated
the infant institute at Brescia. On the same day, she was joined by fifteen additional members,
making with the original twelve, the twenty-seven pillars on which the edifice was to rest,
she being herself the foundation stone. Too humble to attach her own name to the Congregation,
she decided on. giving it that of the Holy Virgin and Martyr St. Ursula, who had previously
appeared to her in a celestial vision, and encouraged her to carry out her inspiration.

In the design of Saint Angela, the life of the Ursuline was to be a union of prayer and action.
She was to employ nearly as much time in the functions of Mary as if belonging to the contemplative
orders, and to devote herself besides to the instruction of the ignorant, and first, and before
all, to the education of the young. With these, the duties forming her specific end, she was
to combine the special practices now attached to the Sisters of Charity.

Considering the spiritual apathy then so generally prevalent, it was not to be expected that
persons needing instruction would go far to seek it, therefore, to adapt her work to the exigencies
of the ages Saint Angela decided that instead of retiring within convent walls, the members
of the Society should continue to live in their own homes, whence they could more easily go
in pursuit of the ignorant, and where too they would have wider opportunities of, doing good
by the silent influence of example. "In these critical times," said the holy Foundress, "let
us place models of virtue in the midst of the corrupt world itself, and oppose living barriers
to the ravages of heresy and the inroads of vice." The Sisters were to continue to meet at
their oratory for spiritual exercises, conferences, and necessary business arrangements; their
dress was to be dark in colour and plain in texture, but no particular form was made obligatory.
Foreseeing the social changes which time would effect, St. Angela with her characteristic prudence
empowered the Sisters to modify the manner of life now adopted, as future circumstances might
render it desirable. She arranged in detail the internal organization of the Society, and her
regulations bore ample evidence to her wisdom, intelligence and heavenly enlightenment. The
Rule drawn up by the holy Foundress, and accepted by the Sisters, received the unqualified
approval of the Bishop of Brescia, and on the 18th of March, 1537, she was unanimously elected
first Superior of the Society, notwithstanding her earnest petition to be allowed to labour
until death in the lowest rank, which she said was the only one suited to her. It is a tradition
among the Ursulines, that on the eve of the election, the glorious St. Ursula again appeared
to her during one of her frequent ecstasies, and consoled her by the assurance that she had
taken the institution under her special patronage, that it was agreeable to God, and that it
would be perpetuated from age to age, even to the end of the world. In little more than a month
after its foundation, the number of the members had increased from twenty-seven to seventy-two,
all filled with the spirit of their holy Mother; all inflamed with liveliest zeal for the glory
of God and the salvation of their neighbour. They were to be seen teaching the ignorant, relieving
the poor, visiting the prisons and hospitals, and diffusing all around the good odour of Jesus
Christ, and so great was the veneration which the Society inspired, that it was usually designated
as the holy Company. Far from opposing, the authorities both civil and ecclesiastical favoured
its progress, and the highest dignitaries of the city gladly assisted at the spiritual instructions
given on certain days in the oratory of Saint Angela and her Sisters.

The first great aim of the new Superior was to train her fervent novices to perfection, inspiring
them with thorough detachment from the world, an ardent desire of God's glory, and a tender
charity for their neighbour. Her second object was to procure the solemn approbation of the
Holy See for the Society; but this she did not live to receive, having survived the foundation
only three years. In the spring of 1539 she gradually sank into a state of utter physical exhaustion,
which she correctly interpreted as a certain, though not, perhaps, an immediate, forerunner
of dissolution. She lingered until the commencement of the following year, when, increased
debility warning her that the end could not be far distant, she summoned the leading members
of the Society to receive her last counsels. Happily the golden words had been previously committed
to writing, and thus the treasure has descended to her spiritual daughters of all generations.
She concluded her impressive advice to the Directresses by making them the bearers of her final
farewell to all the Sisters. "Tell them," she said, "that I shall ever be in the midst of them,
and that I shall know them better, and help them more efficaciously, after my departure, than
when on earth. Tell them not to grieve at our temporary separation, but to look forward to
our meeting in heaven, where Jesus reigns. Let them raise their hearts and hopes to that blessed
home, high above this passing world, seeking their Treasure and their Friend in Jesus alone,
who sits at the right hand of the Father in the kingdom of eternal peace." Her "Last Testament,"
as it was called, was addressed to the Sisters in general, and reserved by her own direction
to be read to them after her death. As a compendium of her lessons of holiness, and an effusion
of her sweet spirit of charity, it may well be considered a legacy worthy of such a Mother.
It concludes by the consoling declaration that "the Society is assuredly the work of the hand
of the Most High, who will never abandon that work while time endures."

And now the earthly task of the dying saint was accomplished. After lingering yet a few days
among her sorrowing children, she received the last rites of the Church in presence of the
whole Ursuline family, numbering one hundred and fifty members, and, after the solemn ceremony,
exhorted them to charity, obedience, humility, observance of rule and love of God. "O Jesus!"
she said in conclusion, "bless this company of virgins irrevocably consecrated to Thy service.
Grant that as they increase in numbers, they may also grow in grace, in fervour and in wisdom
before Thee and before Thy servants." At her own desire she had been clothed in the habit of
the Third Order of St. Francis, and that she might die in the practice of her beloved poverty,
she had herself removed, tradition says, from the poor bed she had occupied in her illness,
to the rush mat on the ground which had formed her ordinary resting-place in health. Her dying
words were fervent acts of the theological virtues, but she seemed to dwell, by preference,
on the act of charity, returning to it continually. "Yes, my God, I love Thee!" she said. "Why
cannot I love Thee infinitely? Holy Virgin! Blessed Spirits: lend me your hearts to love Jesus.
How long shall I be banished from Thy presence, O Lord? Who will give me wings to fly to Thee,
the only Object of my love? Break the chains of my captivity. Receive the soul which languishes
for Thee; which can no longer live without Thee." Then, with Jesus on the cross, she exclaimed,
"Father, into Thy hands I commend my spirit!" They were her last words, no sooner spoken than
she gave up her soul to God--"peacefully," says her historian, "as a child composing itself
to sleep in its mother's arms." She died on the 27th of January, 1540, at half-past nine in
the evening, aged sixty-six or sixty-seven.

Her precious remains repose in the Church of St. Afra, at Brescia, and are in a state of wonderful
preservation. They are clothed in the brown habit of St. Francis, with its white cord. The
apartment in which she breathed her last has been kept with religious veneration in exactly
the same condition as when she occupied it during life, except for the introduction of a few
engravings representing the principal events of her history. On the wall, opposite the window,
is an inscription, in gilt letters, to the following effect:--"This poor room was the resort
of the most learned theologians and the most gifted ecclesiastics, who departed from their
conferences with St. Angela, amazed at the lights which she had communicated to them." Her
portrait, preserved at Brescia, and said to be a true likeness, is of great beauty; it was
taken after death. Her statue at St. Peter's occupies the first niche on the upper row at the
left of the Confession of St. Peter. Although of colossal dimensions, its elevated position
apparently reduces it to life-size. It is a common tribute of love and veneration from all
her children throughout the world. The name of Angela was enrolled on the catalogue of the
saints in 1807 by Pope Pius VII. In the foregoing outline of her history, no attempt has been
made to portray the beauty of that inner life, which is to the saint what the perfume is to
the rose. Many elaborate works have already done justice to the subject, which does not enter
into a passing notice like the present, intended only to trace to its origin the Order illustrated
by the virtues of the Mother of the Incarnation, as well as of its holy Foundress.

On the 9th of June, 1544, Pope Paul III. granted a Bull approving and confirming the Institution
of St. Angela, but, as already noticed, she had then been called to her reward. After her death,
the institute spread rapidly through many towns of Italy. Among the first to adopt it was Dezenzano,
the scene of her early labours. In Milan, especially, it found an efficacious patron and protector
in the great St. Charles Borromeo, to whose zeal it is immensely indebted. In 1568 he introduced
it into his diocese, where it spread so wonderfully that, in the capital alone, it counted
eighteen houses and six hundred sisters.

We have seen that the saintly Foundress gave an anticipated sanction, for such modifications
of the primitive Rule as might be found necessary in the practical development of the great
work which she had lived to establish, but not to perfect. The first modification was introduced
by St. Charles. Anxious to consolidate a work whose utility to the Church he clearly foresaw,
he procured from Pope Gregory XIII. a Bull renewing and ratifying the first approval of the
Rule, authorizing Ursulines to make the three simple vows after a probation of one or two years,
and permitting them to live in community. He also organized the schools, and introduced a mitigated
form of cloister, the Sisters not being allowed to leave the house without a particular permission.
This branch of the Society is known as the Congregation of Milan.

But although the Ursuline Order took its rise in Italy, its perfect development is to be sought
in France, a country connected with the name of its glorious Patroness, St. Ursula, as Italy
is identified with that of its blessed Foundress, St. Angela. It was to the French shores that
the royal maiden was steering her course when she and her retinue fell into the hands of the
savage Huns, and, in defending the crown of their virginity, won, in addition, the diadem of
martyrs. Here, then, we naturally expect to find a numerous company rallying round the standard
of St. Ursula and St. Angela; nor are we disappointed. Before the great Revolution, France
numbered fully three hundred and sixty houses of the Order; many of those then suppressed,
have not been restored, yet she still counts at least one hundred and thirty, and it is her
especial boast that, while in other lands the Ursuline has lived and laboured for her Master's
cause, here she has not only lived and laboured, but died a martyr's death for it.

The first house of French Ursulines was established at Avignon in 1594 by two ladies named
De Bermond. This branch of the Society, known as the Congregation of Avignon, adopted the Rules
of the Congregation of Milan, and quickly spread through other parts of Provence. A few years
later, the Institute of St. Angela was introduced into Paris by Madame Acarie, now venerated
as the saintly Carmelite, Blessed Mary of the Incarnation. Though not the second foundation
in order of date, the Paris house occupies a prominent position in the annals of the Ursulines,
as their first monastery. As we have already more than once observed, the Sisters were not
originally cloistered, bound by vows or monastic observances, or even irrevocably consecrated
to their manner of life, but the time was come when by the adoption of these essential obligations,
the Society, as St. Angela herself had called it, would receive its full development by being
converted into a regular monastic Order. This alteration in the form, changed nothing in the
substance of the Saint's original institution. Whether a member of a simple confraternity,
or of a religious order in the restricted meaning of the word, the Ursuline was at all times
equally bound to devote her life to the instruction of the young, and to work out her own sanctification
by the practice of the evangelical counsels. The instrument of the great work in question was
Madame St. Beuve, a pious and wealthy widow, who at the request of her relative, Madame Acarie,
consented to accept the title and responsibilities of Foundress of the house at Paris, on the
express understanding that it should in due time be formed into a monastery. In this object
she finally succeeded to her entire satisfaction. The reigning Pontiff, Paul V., approved the
design, and on the 16th of June, 1612, issued a Bull converting the Congregation into a Monastery,
under the patronage of St. Ursula and the rule of St. Augustine. His Holiness, moreover, ordained
that for the greater stability of the order, the religious should add to the three ordinary
solemn vows, a fourth of the instruction of the young. The Bull of Pope Paul V. was confirmed
in 1626 by Urban VIII. The convent in Paris, so interesting to Ursulines from its associations,
"le grand couvent de St. Jacques," as it was called from its locality, was among those destroyed
in the first Revolution, but, by an inscrutable permission of Divine Providence, it is not
among those restored. Still, even in its ruins, it not only lives in the hearts of Ursulines,
but may be said actually to survive in its numerous foundations and their offshoots. Between
its establishment in 1612, and the death of its venerated Foundress in 1630, eleven houses
of the Congregation had sprung up in the north of France. Its subsequent diffusion was equally
satisfactory.

Congregations of Ursulines were established at Bordeaux and Lyons, under the respective dates
1605 and 1611, and, within a few years after their foundation, were erected into Monastic Orders
by Pope Paul V.; from these, numerous filiations have also sprung. There are other Congregations
of Ursulines, but the three named are the most numerous. Although the spirit and the essential
end of Ursulines are in all cases the same, the various Congregations differ more or less on
certain points, and each retains the name which distinguishes it from the others.

Notwithstanding the suppression of numbers of its houses, the Order of St. Angela now registers
about three hundred, the greater portion in Europe, some in Oceanica, and a large number in
America. The history of the Mother of the Incarnation will shortly introduce us to the first
in the New World. Of late years, the old tree seems to have renewed its vitality, so vigorously
is it putting forth fresh branches. In Belgium alone, thirty houses have been founded by one
priest in our own times; and although, unhappily, the work of suppression has been steady in
Germany, the dispossessed communities have not perished, but only removed to other countries.

The increase of devotion to St. Angela keeps pace in our day with the extension of her Order.
Pope Pius IX., of revered and cherished memory, gave a considerable impetus to this devotion,
by raising the saint's festival to a higher ritual rank, permitting the universal celebration
of her office, and proclaiming her the "Patroness of Christian mothers, and the Protectress
of young girls." The establishment of the arch- confraternity which bears her name, has greatly
contributed to the same end. It was commenced at Blois in 1863 by the Abbe Richaudeau, a zealous
patron of the Order, and is widely spread wherever Ursulines are to be found. Its objects are
the honour of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the triumph of the Church, the deliverance of the suffering
souls in purgatory, and the extension of the work of St. Angela by word and example, or the
apostolate of woman. It is enriched with indulgences, and the holy sacrifice of the Mass is
offered on the first Tuesday of every month for the associates.

During the three and a half centuries of its existence, the Ursuline Order is calculated to
have given to the Church more than one hundred thousand religious, by whom multitudes of young
girls of every grade have been trained to piety. Only the angels have kept the record of the
multitude of saints whom it has given to heaven, some bearing the palm branches of victorious
martyrs, all clad in virgin robes, and swelling the celestial canticle which only the Spouses
of the Lamb are privileged to sing.

SECOND PERIOD, 1631-1639.

HER RELIGIOUS LIFE IN FRANCE.

CHAPTER I.

SISTER MARY OF THE INCARNATION, AN URSULINE NOVICE.--VIRTUES AND TRIALS OF HER NOVITIATE.--THIRD
VISION OF THE BLESSED TRINITY.--HER CLOTHING.

Marie Guyart was in her thirty-first year when she commenced her career as an Ursuline. Even
without her own testimony, we could easily have understood, that after her long and severe
probation. in the world, the novitiate of religion must have appeared to her like a very heaven
of peace. She compared her entrance into the sanctuary to the opening of the gate of a terrestrial
paradise, and dwelt with holy joy on the happiness of having exchanged a life of embarrassment,
responsibility, and care, for the blessed condition of a simple novice, whose only affair is
to sanctify her soul by the observance of her rule.

It was not long before her superiors had an opportunity of testing her virtue, and satisfying
themselves that it was genuine. She had been for years accustomed, as we have seen, to the
severest rigours of corporal mortification, but, having now embraced community life, in which
singularities even in devotion are inadmissible, it had become necessary to restrict her penances
to those in ordinary practice. To persons unacquainted with her spirit, the question may naturally
have occurred, whether it would cost her much thus to alter the whole tenor of her external
life, and submit unconditionally to the rule in the matter of austerities, as of all else.
But those who knew her well could have predicted, that as attachment to her own will and judgment
had never mingled, however slightly, with her penitential works, she would renounce them, in
compliance with the Divine will, as readily as she had embraced them from the same motive--and
so it was.

Knowing that the sacrifice of obedience is more acceptable to God than the sacrifice of victims,
she at once submitted, not only without a remonstrance or a hesitation, but even without a
thought or a feeling contrary to the will of her superiors, thus early establishing her religious
perfection on the solid virtues of humility and obedience, its only secure foundation. A great
love for common life became henceforth one of the marked characteristics of her spirit as a
religious, and, except either by the actual direction, or with the immediate sanction of authority,
she never to the end of life departed from its rules. In her later instructions, she remarks,
that in good works of our own selection, there is generally a mingling of the human spirit,
and, therefore, a proportionate deficiency of the Spirit of God, whereas in the observance
of the established ordinances of religious life, there is no room for the intrusion of the
human spirit, seeing that the will is not free to choose between them, but must simply submit
to each and all without distinction.

Although in every respect so superior to her sister novices, she took her place among them
with a sweet, child-like simplicity that charmed and edified all who witnessed it. Forgetting
her age, her talents, her experience, her profound knowledge of the spiritual life, and her
extraordinary communications with God, she conversed with, and accommodated herself to the
youngest sisters as if she had really been the least, and the most ignorant of them all. It
was her delight to apply to them for information regarding the practices and ceremonies of
religion; she was always pleased and grateful when they taught her something new, and ever
ready to admit her ignorance and apologise for her mistakes. It was but natural that her mature
years and her reputation for sanctity should have elicited a certain degree of deference from
her youthful companions, but nothing confused her more than any external manifestation of the
feeling. The more her sisters would have distinguished her, the more she tried to pass unnoticed
in the crowd, and far from considering herself an example to the others, she was never tired
of admiring their spirit of self-denial and exactitude to regular observance, which she looked
on as a lesson to herself. She made it her especial study to carry out even the least direction
public or private, of her mistress of novices, the perfection of the accompanying interior
spirit elevating these trivial acts to the height of sublime virtue. While her external life
exhibited in every feature a living model of that beautiful work of grace, a perfect novice,
her heart was filled with so deep a joy, that it almost seemed to her as if no trouble could
reach her more; no storm ever break on the peaceful haven to which the hand of God had at last
guided her. But it was not so; the cross was her portion, and even now, its shadow flung itself
across the sunbeams.

It happened that after giving her up so bravely, her little son repented of his heroism, instigated
to rebellion by various persons who persuaded him that he had done a very foolish thing in
permitting his mother to become a nun, and that he ought to go boldly to the monastery, and
demand her restoration, an advice which he was not slow to adopt. The new building being at
that time in progress, his plan was much facilitated, for the doors were left open for the
workmen, and thus he easily managed to enter the otherwise inaccessible inclosure, making his
way, now to the choir, now to the refectory, now to the parlour grate, and everywhere announcing
his presence by the plaintive cry, "Give me back my mother! Give me back my mother!" She tried
to appease his childish grief by little presents given her for the purpose, but the tempest
was allayed for the moment, only to burst out afresh with renewed vigour. Once a relative of
hers wrote some pathetic verses on the desolate condition of the forsaken child, and gave them
to him to present to his mother; she read them with exterior composure, but every word pierced
her heart. His companions, who loved and pitied him, determined at last to take the law into
their own hands. "It is because you have no mother," they said, "that you are deprived of the
indulgences and gratifications which we enjoy, but come with us to the convent, and we shall
make such a terrible noise, that they will be forced to give you back yours. We shall insist
on getting her, even if we have to break down the doors." Forthwith the self-constituted champions
formed in battle array, and armed, some with sticks and some with stones, they proceeded to
besiege the monastery, if not strictly according to the rules of war, at least with resolute
hearts determined never to yield until the fortress had surrendered. Many of the spectators
laughed as the belligerents passed along; many more looked grave and applauded the children's
spirit. Great was the clamour when the little army reached the monastery, but the inmates were
not left long in ignorance of the object of the invasion, for high above the din and uproar
rose the familiar cry of a now well-known voice, "Give me back my mother!" For once, that much
tried mother's courage almost faltered. Immovable in her own resolution to make her sacrifice
to God at the expense of every feeling of nature, she feared that the forbearance of the sisters
must be by this time exhausted, and that rather than submit to continual disturbance from her
son, they would recommend her to return to the world, and resume the care of him, which she
says would have been very reasonable on their part, but an inexpressible trial to her. We are
not told by what arguments the doughty warriors were induced to abandon the siege; all we know
is that the fortress surrendered neither itself nor its saintly inmate, whom our Lord Himself
soon after consoled and fortified by an interior assurance that notwithstanding all obstacles,
she would make her religions profession in this house.

Her troubles about the child were not yet, however, at an end. Before her entrance to the convent
he had been remarkably good and docile, but now, so completely had his temper been soured by
the irritating remarks of injudicious advisers, that he had grown idle, self-willed and absolutely
reckless. This was the worst pang of all; she dreaded more than any other misfortune, that
of his offending God; the news of his death would have been a light sorrow in comparison. To
avert this greatest of evils, she offered herself as a victim to the Almighty, consenting to
endure any suffering it might please Him to inflict, provided only her boy were preserved from
sin. The contract was ratified in heaven, and it bore its fruits on earth; fruits of sorrow
to the mother, of future sanctification to the son. Some time after, at the request of the
Archbishop of Tours the Jesuits agreed to take charge of the child, and removed him to their
College at Rennes. Those who had most severely censured his mother, now altered their opinion,
and declared that in the step she had taken, she had but obeyed the voice of God.

About two months after her entrance to the novitiate, Marie Guyart was admitted to another
of those supernatural communications, which the Almighty seemed to delight in imparting to
her pure and humble soul. It was the greatest favour she had yet received, as our Lord was
pleased to signify to her. While it elevated her to new heights of love for a God of such infinite
condescension, it lowered her, as did all similar graces to deeper depths of self-contempt
and interior annihilation, with an increased desire to prove her love for her Divine Benefactor
by suffering for Him ever more and more. A few days after this ecstasy, she received the holy
habit, and with it, the now well-known and widely revered name of Mary of the Incarnation.

CHAPTER II.

INFUSED KNOWLEDGE OF SCRIPTURE.--INTERIOR SUFFERINGS.--RELIGIOUS PROFESSION.--NEW TRIALS FROM
HER SON.

So great was the joy of the fervent novice at finding herself clad in the livery of her Divine
Master, that she tells us she at first sometimes instinctively touched her veil to make sure
that her happiness was no delusive dream. Proportioned to her gratitude, was her fidelity to
her heavenly Spouse. The only change observable in her after she had received the habit, was
a daily progress in the perfection of which she was destined to be so bright a model to religious
persons. Her virtues she could not conceal for they betrayed themselves by their own sweet
fragrance. Neither could her humility altogether hide certain supernatural privileges, granted
her perhaps as much for the benefit and comfort of others, as for her own advantage. Among
these were an infused knowledge of Holy Scripture, the capability of understanding it in Latin
without previous study of the language, and a singular facility for speaking on spiritual subjects.
So familiar was she with the Scripture, that its words of life seemed to occur to her quite
naturally on all occasions. Whether her object was to lighten the burden of the suffering,
or to brighten the joy of the happy, she was never at a loss for some appropriate sentence
whereby to recall the thought of Him who is the only true Comforter of our sorrows, as well
as the only unfailing Source of our bliss. It was in prayer, not by study, that she acquired
her truly wonderful acquaintance with the Sacred Writings. In the fulness of the light imparted
by the Divine Instructor, she was enabled to penetrate so far beyond the literal meaning, alone
apparent to ordinary readers of the inspired words, that she sometimes feared lest the abundance
of knowledge should lead to curious speculations of the understanding, and that her union with
God in simplicity of soul, might in consequence be even slightly impeded,--but the dread of
such a danger was necessarily a security against it. She had a very particular devotion to
the Divine Office, and in her trials of interior desolation, sometimes found in the chanting
of the Psalms, a relief and consolation which no other exercise could impart. Very truly might
she have exclaimed with the Psalmist, "How sweet are Thy words to my palate! more than honey
to my mouth. O how have I loved Thy law, O Lord!" (cxviii. 103, 97).

A sister novice once asked her to explain the passage of the Canticles, "Let him kiss me with
the kiss of his mouth," which she had happened to meet in her prayer-book. Their mistress was
present, and to mortify her, as she declared, ordered her to take a chair and proceed. No sooner
had she commenced, as desired, than her subject transported her as it were out of herself.
A torrent of sacred eloquence flowed from her heart to her lips. She spoke with a fluency than
amazed her hearers, and at the same time, with an unction that penetrated, and a charm that
fascinated them. Suddenly she stopped, as if the remainder of the effusion were meant to be
reserved for the ear of her Lord alone. Her sisters dared not interrupt the colloquy, which
only the angels were privileged to hear.

But this ray from Thabor, served as usual but to light her back to her ordinary abiding place
on Calvary. Again her soul was plunged into an apparently fathomless abyss of desolation, and
inundated as by a deluge of temptations; temptations to despair and blasphemy; temptations
to pride and vanity; temptations against faith, against charity, against obedience, and against
the angelic virtue,--sometimes assailing her one by one, sometimes overwhelming her all at
once. She was in constant apprehension of having consented to the enemy's most extravagant
and most impious suggestions. The passing comfort which she derived from her director's counsels,
was counteracted by the after dread of having deceived him. Even this, her only sensible succour,
was taken from her when she seemed to need it most, Dom Raymond of St. Bernard, who had helped
her through so many difficulties; being appointed Superior of his Order, and obliged in consequence
to change his residence. The spiritual guide into whose hands she nest fell, increased her
perplexities by assuring her that she had hitherto been ill-advised, and pronouncing her heavenly
favours delusions. Finally, as the climax to her trials, she seemed to have lost trust in the
superintendence of Providence, that strong anchor of the troubled soul. It was the most painful
form in which despair had yet assailed her, and as an apparent encroachment on one of the attributes
of God, the supreme Object of her love, it caused her intense affliction.

If she could but have bathed her soul in the dew of Divine consolation at prayer, how much
it would have refreshed her!  But she seemed to feel only a loathing for the things of God;
meditation, in particular, had become her torture, for it appeared as if there especially,
the torrent of temptation was let loose. Her understanding was obscured, her memory for spiritual
things weakened, her imagination troubled, her heart sad. From the constant strain on. her
mind, and the unceasing struggle to do violence to nature, she contracted an habitual headache
which added to the difficulty of her external duties, yet through all her multiplied troubles,
she never lost either the view of God's presence, or her interior peace; she never formed a
desire for the diminution of her crosses, nor ever omitted any observance of rule, and so admirable
was her self-control, that only the Mother Superior and her director were aware of her state
of mental anguish. Her one only aim was to maintain her patience; to avoid every deliberate
imperfection, and to conform to the will of God even without the sensible support of knowing
that she did so. The terrible interior trial lasted for more than two years almost without
intermission, and then the Divine Consoler of the afflicted came Himself to her aid. As she
prayed before the Blessed Sacrament with entire abandonment of her will to the will of God,
she seemed interiorly to hear the words, "They that sow in tears shall reap in joy" (Ps. cxxv.
5). She had never before, she says, understood the whole import of those words, although in
the daily habit of repeating them in choir, bat now they struck her with their full force,
revealing to her for the first time, hitherto hidden springs of encouragement and consolation.

The cross was not removed, it is true, but a great increase of esteem and love for it was imparted
to her. Thus strengthened, she embraced it with her whole heart, satisfied to bear it to the
last moment of existence, if thus she could at last attain the eternal joy to which those blessed
words pointed, as to a star of hope illumining the close of life's long path of tears. The
cross was not removed, but it was so far lightened by her love for it, that in her renewed
courage she could say with heart, as with lips, "Thy yoke, O Lord, is sweet, and Thy burden
light!" "I am not tired of suffering, my God! I am not tired of suffering!"

As the time for pronouncing her vows drew near, she fully expected that her sisters would reject
her, on account of her numerous imaginary disqualifications, but conscious only of possessing
in her a treasure of virtue, and a precious gift from heaven, they gladly admitted her to holy
Profession on the 25th of January, 1633: she was then in the thirty-third year of her age.
On the eve, her interior sufferings vanished as if by magic, giving place to indescribable
raptures of Divine love and heavenly sweetness. After the ceremony, she retired to her cell
to give vent unobserved to the ecstasies of her joy and gratitude, and there it was revealed
to her, that henceforth she must incessantly fly in God's presence on the six wings of her
three vows, and of the virtues of faith, hope and love. This respite from the cross is compared
by one of the writers of her life, to the clearing of the sky between two storms; it lasted
but eight days, and then the tempest burst forth afresh and with redoubled violence. She might
perhaps have doubted the reality of her vanished joy, had it not left a substantial trace in
her renewed ardour for the cross, and her heightened aspiration after the perfection of utter
detachment from self and every creature.

The sermons of the following Lent were preached in the cathedral of Tours by a Jesuit of great
eminence, Father George de la Haye, with whose saintly and enlightened spirit the Ursulines
were well acquainted, from his frequent exhortations to themselves. Full of compassion, for
the prolonged sufferings of Sister Mary of the Incarnation, the Mother Superior was inspired
by her own charity to procure her an opportunity of conferring with this experienced director.
Before forming a conclusive judgment on her state, he required to see a written account of
the graces she had received through life, and of the manner of her correspondence with them.
The humble servant of God consented to prepare it, on condition that she should at the same
time be allowed to write a confession of all her sins and imperfections. Such was the origin
of the first account of her life by herself, so frequently referred to in these pages. After
mature consideration of the document, and fervent prayer for the light of heaven, the Father
assured her unhesitatingly that her method of prayer had been inspired by God, and that she
had all along been guided by His Spirit alone, a decision which filled her soul with indescribable
peace. Shortly afterwards, her interior trials were instantaneously and totally removed.

 Summing up the advantages of these at a later period, she says that they
are a source of self-knowledge and a stimulus to self-correction;--that
in the abundance of spiritual consolation, the soul is carried on by an
ardour which she mistakes for virtue, whereas, when the inferior part is
deprived of all sensible succour, she discovers that she is full of human
life and feeling, which she must begin at last in real earnest to mortify
and crush. Viewing interior suffering in this light, she conceived so
great a love for it, that if permitted to choose between spiritual
enjoyment, and her multiplied most bitter crosses, she tells us she would
have selected the cross.

Shortly before her Profession, she had the great grief of hearing that in consequence of her
son's recent insubordination, his removal from the college at Rennes had become inevitable.
One of his aunts accordingly brought him back to Tours, where removed from the influence which
had led him astray, he quickly reformed. To complete his mother's obligations to Father de
la Haye, that good religious charged himself with the boy's future education, and with that
object took him to Orleans, where under his own immediate direction the child continued his
studies up to the class of rhetoric. This he was sent to follow at Tours in a Jesuit college
lately founded, and then Father de la Haye recalled him once more to Orleans for the completion
of his course of philosophy.

CHAPTER III.

In the second year after her profession, Mother Mary of the Incarnation was appointed assistant
Mistress of novices, a striking proof of the high estimation in which she was held by her superiors.
Much about the same time, she had the remarkable vision of her vocation for Canada, which she
thus describes. "One night, after conversing familiarly with our Lord; as usual, before falling
asleep, I seemed as in a dream to see a strange lady in a secular dress standing near me. Her
presence surprised me extremely, as I could not imagine how she had come to my room. Taking
her by the hand, I led her from the house in great haste, through a very rugged, fatiguing
road, without knowing in the least where it was that I wanted to conduct her, or of course
the way to our destination. We advanced steadily through multiplied obstacles, until at last
we came to an inclosed space, at the entrance of which stood a venerable looking man clothed
in white, and resembling the ordinary representations of the Apostles. He was the guardian
of the place, and motioned to us to enter, signifying by a gesture that we had no alternative
but to pass through, this being the only road on our way. It was an enchanting spot; the pavement
appeared to be composed of squares of white marble or alabaster, united by richly coloured
bands of brilliant red; its only roof was the canopy of heaven; its greatest ornament and charm
the stillness which reigned around. To the left, at some distance, was a beautiful little white
marble church, with a seat on the top occupied by the Blessed Virgin holding her Divine Infant.
From the eminence on which we stood, we could see a vast region beneath, thickly interspersed
with mountains and valleys, and covered with a heavy mist in every part except one, the site
of a small church. The Mother of God was gazing fixedly at this desolate land to which there
was access only through one rough narrow path; she looked as immovable as the marble on which
she was seated. I relinquished the hand of my companion to hasten to her, stretching out my
arms eagerly towards her. Her back was to me, but I could see that as I approached, she bent
to her Divine Child, to whom, without speaking, she communicated something important. I felt
as if she were directing his attention to this poor, forsaken country and to me, and I longed
to attract her notice. Then with ravishing grace, she turned to me, and sweetly smiling, embraced
me in silence. A second and a third time, she repeated the same movements, filling my soul
at each new embrace with an unction which no words can describe. She looked about sixteen years
of age. I could never depict the enchanting beauty and sweetness of her countenance. My companion
was standing at the distance of two or three steps, as if preparing to descend to the forlorn-looking
land, and from where she stood, she had a side view of the Blessed Virgin. I awoke with an
impression of extraordinary peace which lasted some days, but the vision was yet a mystery
whose meaning I could not divine."

A grand work of zeal lay before the Mother, but until it should please God to reveal His future
designs, her aim was to acquit herself perfectly of the duties assigned her by providence in
the present moment. The most important of these was to form the novices to religious life by
conferences on its spirit and its obligations, and at the same time to prepare them for the
special function of the Ursuline institute, by instructions on the Christian doctrine. She
had a natural facility for expressing her thoughts on every subject, but when spiritual things
were her theme, she surpassed herself, her abundant and most appropriate quotations from Scripture
adding immeasurably to the weight of her words. Her talent for writing on pious subjects equalled
her facility for speaking of them. It was while second Mistress of novices, that she composed
her catechism, one of the most complete works of its kind, combining, with admirable dogmatic
instructions, equally valuable practical lessons of conduct.

Habitually, the Mother of the Incarnation spoke little, and when obliged to break silence,
never used many words. This habit which she had contracted in the world, she retained all her
life, perfecting it more and more as she advanced in sanctity. Her words, though few in number,
were comprehensive in meaning, as may be seen in the following specimens of the maxims which
she most frequently inculcated.

"A soul," she said, "which would follow her call to the perfection of the spiritual life, must
prepare first to pass, gradually through spiritual death with all its varied and prolonged
agonies. Those who have not endured the ordeal, can scarcely calculate the degree of interior
crucifixion, or, the amount of self-abandonment required."

"Many desire, and would gladly accept the gift of prayer, but few aim at, and labour for the
spirit of humility and self-abnegation, without which there can be no true spirit of prayer
or recollection. Devotion unsustained by mortification is of a doubtful character."

"Mortification and prayer cannot be separated. They have a close connection, and are a mutual
support."

"The gift of prayer and fervent devotion is not for the great talker; it is impossible that
the heart and lips should be uselessly occupied with creatures, and at the same time employed
with God."

"Interior purity is an essential condition for Divine union. As the sea casts out corrupted
matter, so God, the infinite Ocean of perfection, rejects souls dead in sin, uniting Himself
only to those who live by grace and resemble Him in purity."

"There is no greater obstacle to the progress of the soul than curious speculations in prayer,
and the desire to know more than God intends. We may exceed in the desire of knowledge, but
never in the desire of love."

"The most sublime life is that which combines the external practice of the virtues of the Gospel,
with interior familiarity with God."

"We make God our debtor, if I may say so, when we cast ourselves into His arms with child-like
confidence. We should lose ourselves lovingly in Him, for although it is true that we are nothing,
while He is all, we shall for that reason be more easily and more happily lost in Him."

"The Eternal Father has made known to a certain soul that whatever she asks of Him through
the most Sacred Heart of His Son, He will grant her."

Every day we must begin anew to love God, persuaded that the day before we did not love Him
truly; seeing only defects in the past, and work to do in the present and future."

"I cannot imagine," she would sometimes say, "how a soul can seek her pleasure in intercourse
with creatures, when she can at all times converse with the ever-present Creator. I wonder,"
she remarked on other occasions, "how, having God for our Father, we are not always perfectly
contented. The reason is that we are too much occupied about ourselves."

"Even to the end of life the holiest souls experience the assaults, of corrupt nature, which
furnish a constant occasion of interior humiliation."

"The practical experience of our weakness is the true teacher of contempt of self and compassion
for others."

"The nearer the soul approaches to God, the more clearly she sees her nothingness."

"I cannot understand," she said, "how a religious soul who desires to love God and to be loved
by Him, can fail in obedience or find a difficulty in it, knowing as she does that it is the
certain means of fulfilling the will of God."

"There is no shorter road to the perfection of the interior life, than the universal retrenchment
of all reflections, not only on annoying subjects, but even on such as do not lead to God and
the practice of virtue."

"The effect of over-eagerness to finish one action, in order to hasten to another, is that
both are done imperfectly."

"Our afflictions are not chance accidents, but graces from God, to detach us from creatures,
and unite us to Himself."

"It seems strange that we rebel against trials, since everything that God sends is good and
desirable?"

"Resignation in suffering is a mark that the soul is near to God and His mercies."

"Peace reigns in the heart, which, through holy self-hatred, endeavours to destroy the very
last vestiges of corrupt nature."

She had a hatred of all vices, but especially of deceit, and was accustomed to say that "when
the mouth opens to a falsehood, the heart closes to God."

Another of her sayings was, that her temptations had been to her useful practical lessons,
teaching her how to govern others, by having taught her first to command herself. She often
inculcated that "to suffer and pray is the only means by which, in the present life, we can
honour the Church Triumphant, and help the Churches Militant and Suffering."

From these few examples we can form an idea at least of the solidity of her lessons, which
she never intruded, always maintaining a strict reserve unless pressed to speak by charity
or obedience. Not only the novices, but even many of the elder religious delighted in listening
to her spiritual instructions. Among other matters, she explained the Psalms and the Canticle
of Canticles in a style at once so sublime and so clear, that both beginners and proficients
derived profit from her words. Among the numerous novices formed to the interior life by her
example and counsels, some became eminent for holiness. As her son remarks, the beauty of the
copies is the highest tribute to the perfection of the original, and the solid virtue of the
disciples, the best proof of the excellence of the teacher.

CHAPTER IV.

INCREASED ZEAL OF THE MOTHER OF THE INCARNATION.--REVELATION OF THE DEVOTION TO THE SACRED
HEART OF JESUS, AND OF HER CALL TO THE CANADIAN MISSION.

From her first years, zeal for the salvation of souls had been a special characteristic of
the Mother Mary of the Incarnation. Her early delight had been, as we know, to travel in spirit
over infidel lands with the holy missioners, and unite in heart and intention with their labours.
Now that the dream of her childhood was about to become a grand reality, the holy fire acquired
a ten-fold vehemence, as if her Divine Master would thus predispose her for the revelation
of His designs. She seemed actually to burn with desire that the only Object of her love should
be known and adored by every creature, and, unable to endure the thought of the triumph of
Satan over Jesus, she gathered the poor perishing souls of all unbelievers into her heart,
and, presenting them to the Eternal Father, reminded Him that He had promised the dominion
of the nations to His Son, who ought no longer to be deprived of the inheritance purchased
at the dear price of His own most precious blood. "The zeal of God's house absolutely consuming
her" (Ps. lxviii. 101), she continued to traverse heathen lands in spirit, praying for a voice
strong enough to proclaim to the extremity of the earth that her heavenly Spouse is worthy
of the love and homage of every human heart. The worst torments of the martyrs would have seemed
light to her if by them she could have gained these straying souls to her Lord. She besought
God to inflict on her the last excess of pain, and that until the Day of Judgment, if thus
she could extend the Kingdom of Christ. She might literally have said with the Psalmist, "My
zeal hath made me pine away" (Ps. cxviii. 139), for, the inflamed ardour of her soul reacting
on her bodily strength, she was reduced to such great exhaustion, that it was feared she would
have died. Still the prayer seemed unheeded, though still it went on redoubling in earnestness,
until at last the Eternal Father made known to her that if she would obtain her petition, she
must present it through the Heart of His Divine Son. Thus was the devotion to the Sacred Heart
of Jesus made known to the Mother Mary of the Incarnation long before it was revealed to the
world through another of its fervent clients. All through her remaining life, she cherished
a most ardent devotion to that ever- adorable Heart. She offered nothing to God, she asked
nothing of Him, except through it. She made it her refuge in difficulty and her consolation
in suffering; her repose in weariness, her treasure in poverty, her all, for love of which
she despised herself and renounced all things created.

At the time of her vision, her director had remarked that the country shown her might perhaps
have been Canada, which was then exciting some attention. It was a new light; she had never
before heard of Canada; neither had she for a moment imagined that God intended her to labour
for souls otherwise than by the interior practices of zeal and charity to which she was accustomed.
All doubt was removed when, in a repetition of the vision, God revealed to her that it was
indeed Canada which she had seen, distinctly telling her at the same time that she was the
instrument chosen to build a house there for Jesus and Mary. Now, at last, she knew her destiny.
"Oh, my great God!" she exclaimed, "Thou art omnipotent, and I am all weakness; if Thou wilt
assist me I am ready. Do in me and by me Thy most adorable will."

In every phase of her vocation to Canada, we are struck by the visible intervention of the
wonder-working, ever-watchful Providence of God. Thus it happened that at this very crisis,
she received for the first time a "Report" of the affairs of the Church in the infant colony.
It was the one for 1635, the year following the regular establishment of the Huron Mission,
and was sent her by Father Poncet, a Jesuit. Without having the least idea that their destinations
were similar, he informed her of his own vocation for that mission, sent her a miniature pilgrim's
staff which he had brought from Loretto, and invited her to join the great work. As she knew
that the good Father was absolutely ignorant of her spiritual state, the whole affair greatly
surprised her. How would her wonder have increased had she been aware that the same Report
of 1635 was to be the means under God of deciding another vocation, on which hung the success
of the Ursuline Mission to Canada! She could answer the Father's invitation only in general
terms, unwilling, on the one hand, to speak of the supernatural revelation granted her, and
ignorant, on the other, of the means by which the Almighty intended to execute His will in
her regard. The enterprise was one demanding not only superhuman courage, but also pecuniary
resources; in proportion as the Mother of the Incarnation abounded in the one, so was she destitute
of the other, but her future was in the hands of Him to whom it is as easy to dispense the
treasures of earth, as the riches of heaven. While she tranquilly abandoned herself as a passive
instrument to His designs, His Almighty Providence was employed in preparing for her a co-operatrix
endowed at once with the zeal and the wealth, each indispensable in its way,--Madame de la
Peltrie, to whom the next chapter will introduce us.

CHAPTER V.

MADAME DE LA PELTRIE, FOUNDRESS OF THE URSULINES IN CANADA.

Marie Madeleine de Chauvigny, better known as Madame de la Peltrie, was born in 1603, at Alencon,
a town in Normandy. Through both her parents she claimed connection with the noblest families
of the province, and from both also she derived a far more precious inheritance than exalted
birth, the imperishable heritage of piety. The virtues which reflected so bright a lustre on
her name, both in her own land and in the New World, were, under God, the fruit of their teaching;
but it must be owned that her natural docility and amiability of disposition rendered her early
training an easy task. Compassion for the poor seemed so identified with her nature, that she
could not see a want without trying, according to her opportunity, to relieve it, and when
the power to do this failed, she endeavoured to make up for the disappointment by an ever-ready
and most tender sympathy. She seemed to have no taste for the toys and sports of children,
preferring for her recreation the exercises of devotion, which she had learned by observing
them in others. In admiration of her early piety, her parents loved to fancy that heaven must
surely have some singularly blessed destiny in store for her.

Under her mother's guidance, she received an education suitable to her high social position
and brilliant prospects, and when she had attained her seventeenth year, she was informed that
being of course intended for married life, she would do well to accept a very excellent proposal
which had just offered. Most cordially despising the world with its pomps and vanities, and
desiring with her whole heart to have no spouse but a Heavenly One, she was utterly overcome
by the announcement. She had never had a thought but of consecrating herself to God in religion,
and had refrained from speaking of her intentions merely because she believed that the favourable
time for doing so had not yet arrived. In the present unexpected disappointment of her dearest
hopes, she fancied that if she were but once secure within the walls of a convent, her parents
might not, perhaps, carry their authority so far as to oblige her to leave it; accordingly
she went in all haste to a neighbouring abbey and asked admittance for a few days to make a
retreat. This step exceedingly irritated her father, who at once insisted on her return home,
and, as no persuasion could induce him to alter his determination respecting her future destiny,
her spiritual guides finally decided that the will of God in her regard was manifested by that
of her parents, and that no alternative remained but to submit. After much prayer for the light
of heaven, she consented to espouse the husband of their selection.

Monsieur de la Peltrie, her partner, was in every respect worthy of her, and their union was
one of such unbroken peace, that he often expressed a hope of living long, in order to benefit
by her holy influence, and to enjoy the Christian happiness of which she was to him the ministering
angel. But God had decreed otherwise; five years after their marriage he died in the very vigour
of manhood. Their only child had passed at once from earth to heaven.

Her worldly ties thus broken at the early age of twenty-two, the young widow deliberated how
she could most profitably dispose of herself and her possessions for the glory of God. A hundred
and a hundred times a day she repeated, "Do with me, O Lord! as it shall please Thee; my heart,
my life, my riches, all are Thine!" She had not lost her first inclination for the religious
life, but the doubt arose whether, with her great wealth, she might not, perhaps, promote the
Divine honour more effectually in the world than in a life of voluntary poverty. An ardent
zeal for the salvation of souls lighted up her heart, and, like the Mother of the Incarnation,
she flew in thought to the homes of the heathens, there to aid, at least by her prayers and
desires, the labours of the missionaries. She panted to lend active succour to the work, bat
could not yet see how this was to be brought about. Meantime the Providence of God was working
out her destiny in its own sweet and wondrous way. After years of incertitude and indecision,
she accidentally met with one of the Reports of the progress of the Canadian Mission. It was
a copy of the same which had been sent to the Mother of the Incarnation by Father Poncet, bearing,
as may be remembered, the date 1635. In burning accents of holy zeal, the writer asked whether
no Christian heroine could be found willing te co-operate with the designs of Jesus by devoting
herself to teach the Indian children the name of their unknown God, and the value of the precious
blood which had redeemed them. The stirring appeal was an instantaneous answer to the doubts
of years; it revealed her vocation as plainly as if an angel's voice had spoken. In a moment
she saw that God destined her for the Canadian Mission, and with equal promptitude she resolved
to obey the call. Soon after this first inspiration, God was pleased to confirm her resolution,
by distinctly revealing to her that it was His will she should go to Canada, and there labour
for the conversion of the Indian girls, promising that He would bestow great graces on her
in recompense. "O Lord!" she exclaimed, "surely favours like these are not for a worthless,
sinful creature as I." And out Lord answered, "You speak truly; but the more unworthy the object
of My favours, the more is My liberality exalted in bestowing them. I desire to employ you
as the instrument of My mercies to Canada, and, notwithstanding all obstacles, you will go
there, and there, too, you will end your days." Unmistakably as the project appeared to be
marked with the will of God, she would take ho measures for its execution until competent judges
had examined it in all its bearings, pronounced it the work of the Holy Spirit, and decided
that she ought to carry it out without delay. Her vocation received its final confirmation
in a dangerous illness which brought her to the very verge of the tomb. When the last hope
had vanished, and her soul seemed on the very point of hearing the great summons to eternity,
she felt inspired to vow that if her life were spared, she would build a church in Canada in
honour of St. Joseph, and devote herself and her wealth, under his patronage, to the service
of young Indian females. No sooner had she made the promise than she fell into a sweet refreshing
sleep, from which she awoke in restored health. The amazement of the physicians was something
wonderful. "What has become of your illness, Madam?" they asked. "It seems to have gone to
Canada." Greatly surprised at the remark, she smilingly answered, "Yes, sir, as you say, it
is gone to Canada."

Thus miraculously snatched from the arms of death, she thought only of fulfilling her vow as
quickly as possible, but nearly four years were to pass before she could realize her pious
wishes. As might have been expected, the enemy of all good set every engine at work to frustrate
the design. Her father insisted that she should marry again, and after exhausting arguments
and entreaties, he had recourse to threats, declaring that he would disinherit her if she persevered
in opposing his washes, and that if she persisted in going to Canada, it would cost him his
life. As time passed, obstacles seemed only to multiply, and her perplexity in consequence
to increase, but before matters had finally come to a crisis, it pleased God to call her father
out of life after a severe but short illness. This event, in removing one difficulty, created
another. Some of her relatives who had long had designs on her property, eagerly seized the
opportunity of securing the prize. With this object, they declared her incompetent to manage
her own affairs, in consequence of her extravagance, as they termed her liberality to the poor
and to the Church. They had recourse to law proceedings to prove the statement, and actually
managed to procure a verdict in their favour. Just when her case seemed hopeless, she was extricated
from the difficulty by following the advice of a kind friend, Monsieur de Bernieres. At his
suggestion she appealed to the Parliament of Rouen, and obtained a reversal of the first decision,
with a full recognition of her rights. This great victory she attributed to the intercession
of St. Joseph, in whose hands she had placed her cause, at the same time renewing her vow to
build a church in Canada under his invocation, and devote her remaining life to the service
of the Indians.

Her affairs no longer requiring her presence at home, she proceeded to Paris to complete her
preparations for the voyage. She profited of the opportunity to submit her plans to two of
the great lights of the age, Pere Condren, General of the Oratorians, and St. Vincent of Paul,
who both consoled her by the assurance that her vocation was genuine, and her work the work
of God. Even here her relatives continued to disquiet her. Unwilling to relinquish their prey,
some of them actually followed her to the capital with the intention of seizing her person,
and so closely did they watch her movements, that, to baffle pursuit, she had to disguise herself
in the dress of her maid when obliged to go out on business. Once more she had recourse to
Monsieur de Bernieres, and at his appearance, the conspirators dispersed.

This good friend of Madame de la Peltrie and the Ursulines, was the scion of an illustrious
house in Normandy, and resided at Caen where he occupied a high official position. Fearing
that the distraction of worldly business might divert his attention from the one thing necessary,
he had early assembled around him a little community of ecclesiastics and pious laymen, who,
united by the bonds of faith, charity, and prayer, served as mutual helps in the pursuit of
a common end--Christian perfection This association, called "The Hermitage," once numbered
among its members Monseigneur de Laval, the first Bishop of Canada. A faithful picture of the
angelic soul of Monsieur de Bernieres can be found in his own work entitled "The Interior Christian,"
which is in fact the history of his inner life written by the direction of his confessor. His
ardent zeal for the Divine honour inspired him with the liveliest interest in the Canadian
mission, to which he continued until death a devoted and efficient friend. To Madame de la
Peltrie in particular, he preyed himself an invaluable assistant just at the time when she
most needed counsel and support. Her contradictions were not yet at an end; one indeed seemed
removed only to stake way for another. So it ever is with the work of God, for the. sign by
which that work conquers is the sign of the cross. It was now the month of November, 1638.
On applying for a passage to Canada for the following spring, she was told that all the vessels
for the ensuing season would be fully freighted, so that no alternative remained but to defer
her departure for another year. Nothing daunted, she declared that if necessary, she would
charter a vessel at her own expense, and when the time of departure came, so she actually did.

CHAPTER VI.

DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOTHER OF THE INCARNATION'S VOCATION FOR CANADA.

While the Almighty was thus slowly preparing the way for the accomplishment of his designs,
the Mother Mary of the Incarnation was still calmly awaiting the manifestation of His will,
in utter unconsciousness of the progress of events. At the date to which we have brought the
history of Madame de la Peltrie, more than two years had passed since she and the Venerable
Mother almost simultaneously learned by Divine revelation, that the Canadian mission was to
be the scene of their future labours. Having followed the progress of the destined Foundress'
vocation during those years, we shall now retrace our steps to consider the development of
the Venerable Mother's in the same interval.

The great work in prospect was to be the work of God alone, and nothing of the creature was
to be permitted to mingle with it, therefore, before the time for carrying it into effect arrived,
the Almighty signified to his faithful servant, that even in the execution of the command which
He had himself imposed, her own will was to have no share. As once He had assumed the dominion
of her heart, He on this occasion assumed the dominion of her will,--the heart of the soul,--not
depriving her of the faculty, but uniting it so closely to His own will, that hers became absolutely
absorbed and lost in His. It was, she says, as if while she endeavoured to bend His will to
hers, by her ardent prayers for the extension of the Kingdom of His Son, He on the contrary
triumphed over hers so completely, that now she could will only as He willed. Thenceforth,
she waited in silence and peace for the further manifestation of His designs, and deeply as
she prized her vocation, she constantly prayed that if He willed her to work for Him in another
sphere and another way, He would raise insuperable obstacles to her ever going to Canada. The
secret of her future destiny she buried in her heart, until at the end of a year, the Almighty
Himself commanded her to divulge it. When she did so, the communication entailed on her only
mortification and humiliation. Her director rebuked her for indulging silly fancies; the Mother
Superior asserted that if God granted her request, it would be only as a punishment for her
presumption; others, whose judgment she equally deferred to, pronounced the project visionary
and delusive, yet her great courage never failed, for it was founded on a perfect confidence
that in His own time, God would do His own work, using her as his instrument, all unworthy
though she was. In two letters, she fully explained her position to her former spiritual guide,
Dom Raymond of St. Bernard, who like herself, aspired at this time to the Canadian mission,
though as the event proved, unsuccessfully. In one of these, she says, "God is stronger than
man; He commands the winds and calms the waves. If He will have us in New France, He will surely
conduct us thither in defiance of all the obstacles which look like mountains in human eyes,
but before Him are only as straws and spiders' webs. When I consider my great misery, I cannot
help feeling that it may in the end divert His choice to some worthier instrument, but if such
should be His will, I bless Him in anticipation for the selection; whatever it may be, coming
from Him, it must necessarily be all-wise." The humility, the trust in God, the total absence
of all attachment to her own will and judgment which marked her communications, convinced this
enlightened director that her vocation was genuine, and he therefore promised to promote its
success to the best of his power. As God had decreed that she should concur in the great enterprise
by something more than mere passive acquiescence, He again inspired and even urged her to repeat
the information which by His order she had already given on the subject to her Superiors. This
time, she addressed herself to Father de la Haye, who approved of the undertaking, encouraged
her to pursue it, and expressed a hope that the time of its accomplishment was near at hand.
An important link was added to the chain of Providence by the communication just referred to.
Father de la Haye confided it to Father Poncet, who was a good deal concerned in the affairs
of the Canadian mission, and thus was the Mother's cause placed in the direct road of success.
Some time more was, however, to pass, before the mysterious chain of Providence should be perfected.

Although careful to avoid unnecessary allusion to her own especial vocation, she spoke in such
glowing terms of the happiness of labouring for the salvation Of the infidels, that she effectually
communicated her apostolic spirit to her community, who all joined her in prayer and works
of penance for the conversion of heathen nations. The reputation of her zeal had even reached
New France, whence she received urgent petitions from the missioners to hasten, to the aid
of their dear converts. These appeals, some of them traced on bark by saintly men who soon
were to water with their blood, the land blessed by their labours, she kissed reverentially
and bedewed with her tears.

All her letters from Canada were not, however, of this description. Soon after the revelation
of her vocation, she received two from Father le Jeune, mortifying enough to have discouraged
any soul less humble than hers. As Superior of the missions in New France, he thought it advisable
to try her spirit before she was permitted to follow her call; accordingly, he twice addressed
her in the most humbling terms, dwelling particularly on her intolerable presumption in aspiring
to functions far above her capacity, and aiming at a position in every way beyond her sphere.
She read and re-read the painful words with singular satisfaction, and in showing them to her
director, she merely said, "Is he not a good Father to treat me so? If I ever fall under his
authority, I am sure of finding a true friend in him." When she learned later that he was using
his best efforts to procure nuns for Canada, and that he especially desired to secure her services,
she understood even better than before, that sharp as were the arrows, they had indeed been
guided by a friendly hand.

Lest self-love or natural ardour should imperceptibly mingle with her desire for the Canadian
mission, she represented herself its most alarming features, the danger of perishing of cold
or hunger; the chance of being led into captivity and perhaps cruelly tortured by the savages;
the immeasurable privations, the hardships, disappointments and varied sufferings which without
any doubt would he her daily portion, yet the terrible anticipation rather strengthened than
diminished her love for her great vocation. "No creature," she said in a letter to her confessor,
"could be worthy of one so exalted. It is so grand, so sublime, so glorious, that only God's
gratuitous goodness could inspire Him to bestow it. Gladly," she continued, "would I purchase
it at the price of a thousand lives if that were possible. Reflecting that 'Christ died for
all' (2 Cor. v. 15), I grieve to think that all do not yet live for Him, and although confounded
at my own presumption, I feel pressed by the desire to bring unbelievers to the knowledge and
love of Him who is the true Life."

She continued to pray that she might be enabled at last to execute the command imposed on her
of building a house in Canada for Jesus and Mary, adding a petition that it might be also in
honour of St. Joseph, whom she firmly believed to be the guardian of that country shown her
in the vision. There seemed, however, little present prospect of her accomplishing her task,
for, independently of other obstacles, more than one promise of the necessary pecuniary aid
had ended in disappointment. Nothing then remained but to submit to the arrangements of Divine
Providence, and this she did so perfectly, that it was difficult to decide whether most to
admire her readiness to go to Canada, or her equal willingness to give up the idea. "An enterprise
undertaken for God, should be renounced for God," she said, "when He withholds the means of
carrying it into execution." But the thought of Canada continued to be as usual ever present
to her heart, and although there seemed no human likelihood of her going there, she could not
divest herself of a strong presentiment that the time of departure was approaching.

CHAPTER VII.

MADAME DE LA PELTRIE AT TOURS.--SELECTION OF THE MISSIONERS.--DEPARTURE FOR PARIS.--THENCE
FOR DIEPPE.

We left Madame de la Peltrie in Paris, preparing for her departure. All her arrangements were
made at last, except one, but that was all- important. The projected work could not go on without
the help of religious Sisters, and none had been engaged; where were they to be sought? Many
voices were raised in favour of the Ursulines of Paris, but God had chosen His own instrument,
and in His own way He would manifest the selection. Father Poncet was known to be closely connected
with the affairs of the mission, so he was appealed to for advice. His answer was prompt and
satisfactory. "The Mother of the Incarnation had a marked vocation for New France; she possessed
all needful qualifications, would fly to the ends of earth at the call of God, was to be found
at the Ursuline Convent of at Tours." Following up the welcome hint, Madame de la Peltrie wrote
at once to the Mother Superior of that monastery to secure the co-operation of so invaluable
an assistant, and the letter was accompanied by one from Father Poncet. It is easy to imagine
the effect of these letters on the two persons most concerned. Recognising in them the almost
visible trace of the hand of Providence, the Mother Superior could only bow down and adore:
equally lost in admiration of the wondrous ways of God, the Mother of the Incarnation could
but exclaim, "Lord, here I am; send me!"

Thinking herself called on to second this manifest intervention of Providence, the Mother resolved
to communicate personally to Madame de la Peltrie her wishes and sentiments on the subject
of the mission. This letter gives so beautiful an insight to her mind that a few sentences
from it will probably be read with interest and pleasure:--

"Can it be true, Madam," she asks, "that our Divine Master really calls you to the terrestrial
paradise of New France? Are you, indeed, happily chosen to spread in that far-off region the
heavenly flame of His love? Icicles abound there, it is true; brambles and thorns grow in profusion;
but the fire of His Holy Spirit can dissolve the one and consume the other. His almighty power
can strengthen weak creatures to endure all trials, and sacrifice all enjoyments for the salvation
of God's children. O favoured spouse of Jesus! yours is the blessed certainty that you love
Him truly, since you are about to give the strongest proof of love by renouncing self and all
things for His dear sake . . . . Since in His infinite goodness He has granted me sentiments
like your own, I feel that our hearts are now one in the Heart of Jesus, and that, so united,
they embrace all the heathen children of Canada, whom, as we hope, it will soon be our privilege
to impress with the love of their infinitely amiable God. Some years have passed since our
Lord inspired me with the desire of labouring for their salvation. Hitherto I could only tranquilly
wait until it should please His Providence to summon me to my work; now it seems as if the
welcome call had come at last through you. Will you, then, accept me as the companion of your
voyage and a co-operatrix in your future labours? As I could explain myself more fully and
satisfactorily in a personal interview, I venture to promise that if you can give me the opportunity,
our Lord will indemnify you Himself for the fatigue of the journey. You will meet here many
affectionate sisters ready to welcome you as a messenger from heaven, and I, although the most
unworthy of all, presume to ask a share in your prayers." This letter, so full of the spirit
of God, confirmed Madame de la Peltrie's first favourable impression of the writer, and strengthened
her desire to secure her as the foundation stone of her projected edifice.

The interview so humbly requested was cordially granted. Accompanied by Monsieur de Bernieres,
the Angel Raphael of her travels, Madame de la Peltrie arrived at the Convent of Tours on the
19th of February, 1639, having previously communicated the object of her visit to the Archbishop,
and received his unqualified sanction. She was met by the whole community and conducted with
due ceremonial to the choir, where the Veni Creator and the Te Deum were chanted. At first
sight, the Mother Mary of the Incarnation recognised in Madame de la Peltrie the well-remembered
features of the lady who had been represented in her vision as her companion to the unknown
land; and their hearts were drawn towards each other irresistibly and for ever. The prayer
of the Forty Hours was offered to obtain the direction of Heaven in the choice of the missioners,
and on its conclusion, the selection commenced. The will of God had been so clearly marked
in regard of the Mother of the Incarnation, that much deliberation would, in her case, have
been superfluous. The Mother Superior must have felt that in acceding to the request of Madame
de la Peltrie by granting her this rich treasure, she was but concurring in a Divine appointment,
which she was not at liberty to oppose. The sanction of human authority was now formally. attached
to the Venerable Mother's call to Canada; in addition to the stamp of heavenly revelation which
it had so long borne, so she was free at last to enter on the course which stretched before
her. clear, direct and well-defined, and while her soul magnified the Lord, and her spirit
exulted in God, her generous heart breathed the one aspiration, that she might prove her gratitude
for His mercies by pursuing that blessed course even to its final term, with a love that would
never cool and a fidelity that would never tire.

As it was understood that one Sister was to accompany the Mother of the Incarnation, many were
the candidates who volunteered their services; it was remarkable, however, that the one whom
God had chosen was the only one who kept aloof. Sister St. Bernard was full of holy ardour
for the salvation of souls, especially the Indians--an ardour fanned by the perusal of the
yearly Reports of the progress of the faith in Canada--but her humility persuading her that
youth and other disqualifications unfitted her for the great work, she dared not present herself
to Madame de la Peltrie. She would not even enter her apartment with the others, but hovered
about outside, offering herself to God as a perpetual holocaust for the conversion of the savages,
and promising St. Joseph that if he obtained for her the favour of joining the missioners,
she would change her present name for his, as a mark of her undying gratitude. Her private
petition to the Mother Superior to be sent on the Mission had been rejected; the Mother Mary
of the Incarnation, Madame de la Peltrie, and Monsieur de Bernieres had all begged for her,
and been likewise refused. Yet, when the community assembled to decide the question, it was
singular that some difficulty or objection arose about every candidate except herself. This
circumstance appearing to the Mother Superior an indication of the will of God, she feared
to persist in her first indention, much as she regretted the loss of a subject whom she looked
on as a future pillar of the house. Sister St. Bernard's parents threatened opposition, but
He who holds in His hands the hearts of men, soon changed theirs so completely, that they gave
her not only the desired permission, but their full approval and cordial benediction. Full
of joy and gratitude, she changed her name as she had promised, and henceforth we know her
as Mother St. Joseph. In the world she had been called Marie de la Troche, and her family was
one of the highest in Anjou.

The aged Archbishop at once ratified the selection of the community, and warmly blessed the
two candidates for the Mission, or, as he called them, the two foundation stones of the temple
about to be erected in the New World for the glory of God. He prayed that the monastery at
Quebec might be a home of grace, peace and benediction; that the efforts of hell might never
prevail against it; and that the Lord might dwell there as the Father and Spouse not only of
these its first inmates, but of all who should join or succeed them to the end of ages. He
then appointed the Mother of the Incarnation Superior.

When all the preliminaries seemed satisfactorily concluded, it was found that an intimate friend
of Madame de la Peltrie's had, at the last moment, revoked a promise to accompany her, alarmed,
it would seem, at the perils of the voyage and the anticipated hardships of life in Canada.
The circumstance was embarrassing, as little time now remained to seek a substitute, but the
difficulty was removed in a manner as satisfactory as it was unexpected. There was just then
in Tours a young person of respectable position and great piety, who, for the previous six
years, had been determined on consecrating herself to the service of God and her neighbour
in religion, but had deferred the execution of her design, merely because uncertainty as to
the particular Order she was destined for. By the arrangement of Providence, her confessor,
a Jesuit, happened likewise to be at Tours precisely at the moment of the nuns' perplexity,
and, hearing of it, he suggested to them that the lady in question would very probably answer
their purpose. She was at once presented to the missioners, and, on being asked by Madame de
la Peltrie, whether she would consent to go to Canada as her personal companion, she promptly
replied that her intention had been to become a nun, but that, since the Almighty was pleased
to offer her so glorious an opportunity of sacrificing her life for Him, she would accept it
with joy and gratitude. Her family name of Charlotte Barre she exchanged later for that of
Mother St. Ignatius, under which we know her as the first sister professed at the Ursuline
Convent of Quebec.

Another attempt was still to be made by the enemy of souls to frustrate the design of the Mother
of the Incarnation, and her natural affections were again the arms which he tried to turn against
her. Intensely grieved at the news of her intended departure, her sister employed every imaginable
argument to prevent it, and, finding all else fail, appealed once more to her love for her
son. She declared that if his mother forsook him, so would every one else, beginning with herself.
Threats producing no impression, she went to the length of actually revoking the small pension
which she had agreed to settle on the boy, as a kind of compensation to his mother for her
services. But all was in vain: nothing could shake her courageous soul. One last effort remained:
it was to apprise Claude Martin of his mother's intention, and inform him at the same time,
that she was to pass through Orleans, where he was then studying, so that if he pleased he
could have an opportunity of seeing her and working on her feelings. The hint was not lost
on him, as we shall presently see.

On the 22nd of February, 1639, Mother Mary of the Incarnation bade a last farewell to the convent
at Tours. It is easy to picture the grief of the Sisters at losing the beloved Mother whose
example had been to all a perpetual stimulus to perfection, and whose counsels had encouraged
so many to tread bravely the narrow path that leads to sanctity. The regret of the pupils for
their saintly teacher, was the highest tribute to the gentleness and charity which, had so
greatly endeared her to them. As to herself, she seems all through to have had a presentiment
that she was in the monastery only as a deposit, to be one day reclaimed by the Heavenly Master.
Her only ties were those which bound her to Himself; when, therefore, He demanded His own,
her disengaged soul was free to hasten on the wings of love, even to the farthest boundaries
of the globe.

Before her departure, she had a vision in which the church of her adopted country was represented
to her as formed, not of stones, like ordinary buildings, but of human beings, fastened each
to a cross. She was shown her destined place among the crucified, and made to understand the
weight of her especial cross. She saw, not only in general, but in detail, all the afflictions
that awaited her;--the agonies of interior desolation, the bitterness of external trials--all
were vividly depicted; and it was intimated to her that henceforth she must serve the Lord
at her own cost, and prove her gratitude for great favours, by great generosity in self- sacrifice.
It was not long before she entered on the dolorous way which was to be henceforward her path
here below. Faithful to his aunt's directions, her son watched for her arrival in Orleans,
and at once presented himself before her. Feigning ignorance of her project, he inquired with
well-assumed surprise, where she could possibly be travelling.

"To Paris," she replied.

"But are you not going farther?" he continued.

"Probably to Normandy," she said.

Seeing that she tried to avoid an explanation, he produced his aunt's letter, with the enclosed
deed revoking his pension. She read the letter, every word of which must have been a torture,
picturing as it did in glowing colours the isolation, the neglect, the actual destitution which
awaited her boy, and raising her eyes to heaven, she exclaimed, "Oh! how many artifices Satan
uses to oppose the designs of God!" Then, with the mingled tenderness of a mother and heroism
of a saint, she asked, "My son, during the eight years which have elapsed since I left you
to consecrate myself to God, have you wanted anything?"

"No, mother," he replied.

"Well, then," she said, "the past ought to be to you a security for the future. Prove yourself
the worthy child of God, the best of Fathers; keep His commandments, trust in His Providence,
and you will find that He never disappoints those who fear Him. If I bid you adieu for the
second time, it is again to obey His voice. If you really love me, you will rejoice that I
have been chosen to labour for His honour among the infidels." She continued for some time
thus to speak to him in the language of faith and love. As she raised his thoughts to heaven,
his better feelings prevailed, and when she concluded, he knelt at her feet in tears and asked
her blessing. He arose quite changed, burned the exciting letters, and, in the simplicity of
his heart, offered to God the sacrifice of that holy mother whose loss he understood better
now than at their first separation. That sacrifice was to him the source of immense graces
and a fruitful seed of future sanctification.

Five days after leaving Tours, the missioners arrived in Paris, and were at first lodged near
the house of the professed Jesuits, whence they afterwards removed to the Ursuline house of
St. Jacques, where, as the Venerable Mother remarks, "they found themselves once more in their
element." To their great joy, they succeeded in obtaining permission for one of the religious
of this monastery to accompany them to Canada, but their satisfaction was of short duration,
for the Archbishop soon recalled the permission, and could not be induced to renew it.

A still more severe disappointment awaited the Mother of the Incarnation before her departure.
Her son, the object of so much solicitude, the cause of so much sorrow, had just gladdened
her heart by most unexpectedly expressing a desire to become a Jesuit. To leave him in the
novitiate of a religious house, cut off from the troubles and temptations of the world, and
with nothing to divert him from the concerns of his salvation, would have been the very crown
and climax of her happiness-- but the way of the cross was to be hers. The Father appointed
to examine the young candidate thought him disqualified for religion; anxious, however, to
soften the pain of an absolute refusal, he suggested that there might be a better chance at
a future period, when the novitiate was less crowded. An ever-ruling Providence had destined
the youth for another Order, and when God's time came, the disqualifications complained of
had disappeared; the present trial was, however, none the less painful to his mother.

Before leaving Paris, the missioners had the honour of two interviews with the Queen, Anne
of Austria, who then expressed and ever after manifested the liveliest interest in their great
work. At Dieppe, the port of embarkation, they were lovingly received by their Ursuline sisters,
who granted them not only hospitality, but the richer gift of one of their own religious, Mother
Cecilia of the Cross. And now the hour of departure had come. Their indefatigable benefactor,
Monsieur de Bernieres, who had never lost sight of them, continued to the last moment to watch
over their interests. His zeal would have prompted him to accompany them to Canada, but it
was thought he could assist them more effectually by remaining in France to look after Madame
de la Peltrie's property. After their departure, he returned to Caen, where he resumed his
ordinary life of prayer, retirement, and good works. He carefully managed Madame de la Peltrie's
estate of Haranvilliers, collected the rents, sent out regular supplies of provisions and other
necessaries to Canada, and proved himself in every respect the visible guardian angel of the
Ursuline Mission. In these charitable offices he persevered for twenty years from the period
of which we now write, and then his holy life was crowned by a saintly death. On the 8th of
May, 1659, he retired to his oratory for evening meditation, as was his wont. His servant entering
at the appointed hour, found him absorbed in prayer, and left him, as requested, to continue
his devotions. Returning after some time, he noticed that his master still knelt in the very
same spot and attitude as he had left him. He approached and spoke, but there was no answer:
the hands were clasped, the eyes raised to heaven, the happy soul had flown to God!

Resuming the interrupted order of our history, we meet the Mother of the Incarnation for the
last time on the shores of France. Her final adieu was addressed to the Mother Superior of
Tours. If this letter breathes a sigh, it is rather one of longing for the land of her exile,
than of regret for the land of her birth. "It is time for our last farewell," she writes, "for
now our Lord summons us to follow wherever it shall please Him to lead. To-day the vessel will
enter port, and as soon after as the wind is favourable, we shall set sail. You can understand
how long each moment of delay appears to one who desires to give her life for her God. O dear
Mother! how powerful is the Divine Master of our hearts. If you could see the effects of His
interior operations on our Canadian band, you would bless His goodness a thousand times. Every
soul is on fire with love, and, at the same time, annihilated in its own unworthiness and abjection....
Madame de la Ville aux Clercs has presented us with some rich ornaments for our future church
in Canada; she is, then, our first benefactress next to you, most dear Mother, who will always
rank before all others, since, not to speak of other gifts, you have bestowed ourselves." Such
was her leave-taking of her country, which she was never to see again; of her home, which henceforth
would know her no more for ever. "The earth with its fulness is the Lord's" (Ps. xxiii. 1),
therefore all parts of it were alike to her, since in all she could find her God; in all she
could unite her heart to the loving heart of Jesus in His own Sacrement; from all she could
see in the distance the heavenly home where her heart and hopes reposed, for there dwelt her
Treasure. Yet a little while, and the golden gates must open to her, for had she not our Lord's
own promise, that they who renounce all things for His sake shall have everlasting life in
exchange? Meantime, while waiting for the vision of the beauty of her God, she would find as
much happiness as she looked for on earth, in labouring and suffering to promote His honour
and extend His reign.

THIRD PERIOD, 1639-1672.

LIFE IN CANADA.

CHAPTER I.

EMBARKATION.--VOYAGE.--ARRIVAL IN QUEBEC.--FIRST DWELLING.

It was on the 4th of May, 1639, that the 'St. Joseph' set sail from Dieppe. The coincidences
were cheering: with St. Joseph for pilot, the sweet Star of the Sea for beacon light, and the
Mother of St. Augustine for protectress, the good ship might fairly have been expected to weather
all storms and brave all perils. It was accompanied by some other vessels, bound like itself
for the Western World. Many a guardian angel must have rejoiced at the departure of that little
fleet, bearing God's messengers of salvation to nations seated in darkness and enveloped in
the shades of death. On board the 'St. Joseph,' as the safest and most commodious of the ships,
was the Ursuline colony, five in number, including the Foundress with her secular companion,
and three Hospital Sisters from Dieppe, who were going to establish a house of the Hotel Dieu
at Quebec, under the auspices of the Duchess d'Aiguillon, a niece to Cardinal Richelieu. Father
Vimont, a Jesuit, took passage in this ship; Fathers Poncet and Chaumonot each in one of the
others, thus the better to ensure spiritual aid for the whole crew.

It was with joy in her heart, and thanksgiving on her lips, that the Venerable Mother turned
her face towards the great goal of her earthly hopes, the savage land, where, as she said,
she would have the chance of risking her life for love of Him who had bestowed it. The first
movement of the vessel in that direction seemed to her like a step towards the bliss of heaven
and, under the sheltering wings of Providence, she felt as tranquil on the treacherous waters
as a child reposing at peace in its mother's arms.

It was not long before the travellers had an opportunity of realizing how securely grounded
are the hopes which rest in God. Scarcely had they lost sight of the French shore, when they
came in view of a Spanish fleet, evidently bearing towards them. The only means of escape was
by sailing close to the English coast. Thanks to Divine Providence, the plan succeeded, but
as it involved a deviation from their direct course, their progress was, in consequence, so
much retarded, that they did not clear the Channel until the 20th of May.

The cabin assigned to the Sisters in the 'St. Joseph' was transformed into a miniature monastery,
where the conventual exercises were daily gone through with admirable fervour and regularity.
Meditation, Mass, and Holy Communion, sanctified the early hours, and at stated intervals the
Office was recited in choir by the Ursulines on one side, and the Hospital Sisters on the other,
Father Vimont presiding. Although the voyage was very long and tempestuous, the Holy Sacrifice
was omitted only on thirteen days of exceptional storm. 23, 24). It was the Feast of the Holy
Trinity. The last sounds of the morning Office had just arisen from the Sisters' little sanctuary,
when with the dying echo of the song of praise mingled a cry of terror from the watch on-deck.
In the dense fog of the preceding night, the ship had drifted alarmingly close to an iceberg,
but of this peril the crew, of course, remained unconscious while the fog continued. At last
the mist yielded to the sun's rays, and then the awful spectacle broke on them in all its horrors.
The iceberg was of enormous dimensions. It looked, the Venerable Mother tells us, like a fortified
city floating on the deep; its frowning towers and battlements relieved here and there by tall
graceful spars, which imagination could easily have transformed into spires and pinnacles of
churches and turrets. On it came proudly through the waters, as if impatient to crush the frail
vessel that lay in its path, utterly helpless and all but hopeless. Even the elements seemed
to have conspired for the destruction of that devoted ship; no friendly breeze arose to send
it bounding beyond the reach of danger; the winds were hushed, and in the struggle for life,
its chances were as nothing. Death seemed so inevitable and so near, that Father Vimont gave
a general absolution, and all prepared as best they could to meet the fate from which there
appeared no escape. But where, meantime, was the heavenly Star, to whose guidance they had
confided themselves so lovingly and so implicitly? Temporarily hidden, for the trial of their
faith and trust, but ready to shine out with renewed brightness as soon as both should have
been sufficiently proved. Just as the last faint hope was vanishing, Father Vimont made a vow
in the name of the ship's company to perform a specified act of devotion in honour of the Mother
of God, if she would deign to take compassion, on them in this extremity of distress. Swifter
than thought, the prayer for mercy reached the throne of Heaven's Queen, and with equal rapidity
came the answer. As a last chance, the captain issued orders, to turn the helm in a particular
direction; the steersman, misunderstanding, turned it in the opposite, and, wonderful to say,
the apparent mistake saved the ship. Obeying the new impulse, it was borne to one side of the
dreaded iceberg, and, when once out of its direct path, the imminence of the danger was over.
As it floated past the enormous, moving mountain, the rescued crew could vividly realize the
peril which they had escaped, and estimate as it deserved the extent of their debt of gratitude
to the Heavenly Mother who had befriended them so effectually in the hour of their extreme need.

After a tedious and in many ways trying voyage of three months, the 'St. Joseph' touched at
Tadoussac, where to their great joy, the Sisters met several Indians. Never having seen white
people before, the poor savages were lost in astonishment, but how did their wonder redouble
when they learned that these ladies were "great captains' daughters," as they would themselves
have expressed it, who had quitted, home, country, and all the comforts of civilized life,
for no other purpose than to come and teach them and their children how to escape eternal fire,
and ensure everlasting happiness! They could not comprehend the strange tidings, and to discover
if possible the real object of the new-comers, they followed along the shore as the ship resumed
its way to Quebec, keeping a close and watchful eye on its movements.

The missioners spent their first night in Canada at the Isle of Orleans, which they reached
on the evening of the 31st of July. As they landed, the sun had just set in all the splendour
which his setting is wont to wear in Canada. The sky was literally glowing with gorgeous colours
of every hue, intermingled with ethereal gold, as if in descending to his rest, the mighty
monarch had left a fold of his mantle of glory floating on the western heavens, to symbolize
that brighter mantle of celestial light which soon would envelop the benighted race whom those
devoted missioners had come so far to seek and to help to save. The island was uninhabited,
so three wigwams were constructed in Indian fashion, one for the Nuns, one for the Jesuits
and a third for the sailors. Unable to contain their holy joy, the Sisters entoned a canticle
of thanksgiving, and for the first time since their creation, those venerable woods re- echoed
with songs of praise to the one true God and His adorable Incarnate Son.

On the following day, August the 1st, 1639, the missioners reached Quebec. Their first act
on landing was to kneel and reverently press their lips to the soil of the adopted country
which was to be to them thenceforth in place of home and fatherland. They were received with
the greatest enthusiasm. The moment they stepped on shore, a salute was fired from Fort St.
Louis. They were met at the landing-place by the whole population headed by the Governor-General,
Monsieur de Montmagny, and the Jesuit Fathers of the colony, and after mutual salutations,
were escorted to the church, where the holy Sacrifice was offered with all the solemnity that
circumstances permitted, the ceremony concluding with the Te Deum. After having been hospitably
entertained by the Governor, the Sisters of the two communities proceeded to their destined
dwellings. As a mark of the general joy, the day was inscribed in the red letter calendar and
work totally suspended.

The next day, the Jesuits conducted the Sisters to the mission at Sillery, already noticed
in the introductory chapter as formed on the model of the Reductions of Paraguay. It would
need a skilful artist to paint that beautiful scene; on the one hand, the heavenly joy of the
Mother of the Incarnation and her companions, at sight of the Indian children, for whose spiritual
and temporal welfare their hearts had so long yearned with more than mother's love; on the
other, the amazement of the little ones at finding themselves the objects of so much unwonted
solicitude. Utterly bewildered, they at first received the Sisters' caresses with the characteristic
caution and reserve of their nation, but the language of kindness is easily understood, and
very soon the children had rightly interpreted their visitors' affectionate advances. Attracted
by their gentleness, their affability, their unmistakable disinterestedness, they followed
them step by step through the hamlet, gaining confidence every moment. With the whole savage
population for escort, the Sisters proceeded to the little church, which was the chief ornament,
as well as the great treasure of the village, and there the Indians all joined in a hymn which
the Jesuit Fathers had composed for them in their own language. The strain was simple, the
temple humble, the congregation illiterate and poorly clad, yet who shall say that colonnaded
aisle or fretted dome of proud cathedral ever resounded with music sweeter in the ear of heaven,
than was that unpretending hymn of the despised Indians! Who would not envy the emotions of
the Venerable Mother and her fervent Sisters, as they knelt in the lowly church among the poor
savages in the hamlet of Sillery! This visit over, the Ursulines and Hospitaliers separated,
each community repairing to its appointed home. The Ursulines were located in the Lower Town,
at the foot of the mountain road, not far from the spot occupied later by the Church of Our
Lady of Victories. The Hospital Sisters were lodged near Fort St. Louis.

The abode assigned to the Ursulines until a monastery could be built for them, contained only
two apartments, the larger of which, sixteen feet square, served at once as choir, parlour,
refectory and common dormitory; the second was reserved for the school-room. A little shed
near the house was fitted up as a chapel, and although so very poor as forcibly to recall the
stable of Bethlehem, it was precious to them beyond words to tell, for there the adorable Sacrifice
was henceforth daily offered, and there too at all times dwelt quite close to them in the Sacrament
of His love, the Divine Spouse for whose sake they had renounced themselves and all things
here below. A wooden palisade round the dwelling supplied the place of cloister walls. In this
most miserable abode they spent three years, amidst unimaginable privations and inconveniences,
exposed to extreme cold in winter, and overpowering heat in summer; breathing the air vitiated
by a crowd of Indians, whose uncleanly habits are proverbial, and whose very clothes exhaled
a sickening odour. When the children presented themselves at the school for the first time,
their attire was scanty, and of the coarsest materials. They wore a mass of tangled hair, guiltless
since first it began to grow, of all acquaintance with scissors, brush or comb, and they were
covered all over with a greasy substance, which to judge from the care employed in laying it
on, must have been deemed an indispensable finishing touch to the juvenile Indian's toilet.
To bring that untidy hair into order, and to remove that personal adornment, unsightly in appearance,
as unattractive in aroma, became a question of privilege. The Foundress claimed it as her right,
because as she said, she was fit for nothing else, but others thought themselves entitled to
the honour too, so finally a compromise was agreed on, and all had their turn. The children's
uncivilized ways must no doubt have at first occasioned many a mortification to the Sisters;
for instance, the Mother of the Incarnation tells us that they daily found some disgusting
mixture in their food, a bunch of hair, a handful of cinders, or even an old shoe being no
uncommon addition to the ordinary ingredients, yet so completely did grace triumph over nature
in these Christian heroines, that unsavoury as was the seasoning of their soup, and countless
as were the discomforts of their position, they enjoyed indescribable happiness in their poverty,
and preferred their humble lodging with its uncouth inmates, to the grandest mansion without
them. Their dwelling, they called the "Louvre", and in their poor pupils, the eye of faith
enabled them to discern ornaments more costly, more precious and more prized than all the splendour
which art can devise and wealth purchase for the embellishment of regal palaces, for what is
the value of a palace, compared with that of a soul?

CHAPTER II.

OPENING OF SCHOOLS.--MODIFICATION OF THE CONSTITUTIONS.--COMMENCEMENT OF THE NEW MONASTERY.

The Mother of the Incarnation at once recognised in her adopted country, that which had been
represented to her in her prophetic vision: the lofty mountains, the vast forests, the boundless
plains, the general aspect and the minute details, all were the same, except that the mist
was less heavy. She was in the land to which God Himself had called her, as in the olden days
He had called the patriarch to the land of promise, and in her sacrifice, as in that of Abraham,
a great result was involved; to her obedience, as to his, a magnificent reward was attached.
Not only was she to bring a blessing to Canada in her own person, elevating it by her lessons
and embalming it with her virtues; she was moreover to found a community of Ursulines, who
inheriting her spirit, would perpetuate her labours and immortalize her zeal. She was to erect
an edifice to the Lord, in which His name should be taught and His praises sung, not for the
years of her own life only, but through ages to come, and by generations yet unborn. She was
to inaugurate the work of education, for which her natural capabilities so eminently fitted
her, and which under God was to be the efficient instrument in her own hands for the present
improvement of the colony; in those of her future spiritual children for the development of
the work so happily begun. That work was very great, but it must be owned too that its instrument
was very perfect.

Without delay the little community entered on its special function, the instruction of youth,
opening schools on a limited scale both for Indians and French. Before they could begin to
teach the former, it was of course necessary to learn their languages. In order the more readily
to accomplish the difficult task, they agreed to divide the study, the Mothers of the Incarnation
and Cecilia of the Cross applying themselves to the Algonquin, the Mother St. Joseph to the
Huron, and under the direction of Father le Jeune, so rapid was their progress, that in two
months they were judged capable of catechising their young charge. Later in life, the Venerable
Mother learned the Huron.

The charity and fortitude of the Mothers was very soon put to a severe test. Towards the end
of August, the small-pox broke out among the savages, with whom it is usually fatal. After
spreading with frightful rapidity through the hamlet of Sillery, it showed itself at the Ursuline
Convent in Quebec, which was soon transformed into an hospital. Some of the children contracted
the disease three different times, and four died of it. Through the protection of heaven, their
devoted nurses escaped under circumstances which rendered their preservation almost miraculous.
Night and day they watched their beloved patients, inhaling only the plague-tainted air of
the small, overcrowded room, and having continually to step across the infected beds, which
for want of space were laid closely together along the floor. During the six months which the
malady lasted, these heroines of charity seemed to vie with each other in the performance of
the most bumbling and revolting offices, the Foundress setting the example of self-abnegation
and devotedness. Their sole apprehension all through, was lest the panic-stricken savages might
remove their children from the monastery, and thus deprive them of the spiritual blessings
in store, an idea being prevalent among the unconverted Indians, that the small-pox was a consequence
of receiving baptism, and of associating with the French. Fortunately the fear proved groundless,
for the little ones were afterwards confided in larger numbers than ever, to the care of their
tender, self-sacrificing Ursuline mothers. When at last the contagion disappeared, the wardrobe
of the charitable Sisters was found not to have been the least of the sufferers in the cause,
every available article of clothing having been converted into bandages for the sores of the
poor patients.

The accounts from Canada might naturally have been expected rather to check than to encourage
vocations for the Ursuline mission, but on the contrary, each letter from the Mother of the
Incarnation to her Sisters of Paris and Tours, served only to stimulate a holy emulation to
share in her sacrifices. "To enter," she says, "into the true spirit of a missioner to Canada,
the soul must die to all things created; on this point, the Almighty Master is inexorable.
Interior death is no doubt the sure road to life in God, but who can describe what it costs
nature thus to die!" Notwithstanding the Venerable Mother's forewarnings, the Mother Superior
of the Paris convent prevailed on the Archbishop to allow two of the Sisters to follow their
call to Canada. The privileged two were the Mother St. Athanasius and St. Clare, who in the
world had borne the names of Margaret de Flecelles and Anne le Bugle. On the 7th of July, 1640,
they landed at Quebec to the great joy of their expectant Sisters. This addition to the original
number necessitated the immediate building of a monastery, which want of means had hitherto
retarded.

It has been already noticed in our rapid sketch of the Ursuline Order, that, while its spirit
and end are everywhere uniform, the great family having but one heart and one soul in God,
the particular rules and practices of the different Congregations vary on some points. As these
separate Congregations are never intermingled, no confusion or inconvenience can possibly arise
from difference of usages, but in the instance of the Quebec Ursulines, the case was altered.
The Mothers of the Incarnation and St. Joseph were of the Congregation of Bordeaux, which does
not make the vow of the instruction of youth; the rest of the Sisters belonged to that of Paris,
which does. Again, there were some points of difference in the costume of the two Congregations.
As they were henceforth to form but one community, it was evident to all that diversity in
any particular, would, for many reasons, be inadmissible. But, if uniformity of life was indispensable,
much tact and prudence were needed in the adoption of the means best calculated to establish
it. Happily, the Mother of the Incarnation excelled in these great gifts, and, best of all,
she possessed in an eminent degree that heavenly wisdom derived from her habitual communication
with the Divine Source of light. She held many consultations with her Sisters, evincing in
all her suggestions the practical good sense, mature experience, and gentle moderation so conspicuous
in her. As the little assembly had no object at heart but the glory of God, their deliberations
were quickly and happily closed. In the decisions adopted, the natural feelings of both parties
seem to have been respectfully and tenderly considered. It was arranged first, that the vow
of instruction should be taken by all, but under the condition that it should bind the Sisters
of the Congregation of Bordeaux only during their stay in Canada; secondly, that the costume
of the Congregation of Bordeaux should be substituted for that of Paris. Some other necessary
modifications of the rules were agreed on. with equal unanimity. The decision was referred
for approval to the Communities of Paris and Tours, to whom it gave the most unqualified satisfaction.
The particular rules then accepted were observed until 1647, when, at the, request of the Community,
Father Lalemant drew up others equally in accordance with the engagements of the Sisters, but
better adapted to their new country. These continued in force until 1682, when, at the recommendation
of Bishop Laval, the Ursulines of Quebec were affiliated to those of the Congregation of Paris.

Uniformity of observance being thus established, the fervent Sisters pursued their work with
redoubled zeal, exhibiting in their daily practice the virtues of the ancient solitaries; sustained
in the hourly trials of their mortified lives by that heavenly love which sweetens suffering,
and encouraged in their difficulties by the example of a Superior who never asserted her authority
except to claim for herself the largest share of the common hardships, seeming to think that
the first place in rank, entitled her also to the place nearest her crucified Lord. It was
a common saying of these generous lovers of the cross; that if they had anything to complain
of in Canada, it was that they had not enough to suffer. "You say," wrote the Mother of the
Incarnation, some years later, "that my actual experiences of Canada are something very different
from my anticipations. You are right in the remark, but not in the sense which you attach to
it. My life of labour and privation is so full of consolation, that I now thoroughly realize
how sweet is the yoke and how light the burden of the Lord. The happiness which I experience
when I teach a poor savage to know God, is a solace in pain and a refreshment in weariness."
Canada, with all its sharp, thorns, she called her paradise, and the company of her uncouth
little Indian pupils, she prized a thousand times beyond that of the greatest and highest of
earthly queens.

In the spring of 1641 the foundation stone of the monastery was laid by Madame de la Peltrie
in the present Upper Town of Quebec, and there, at the close of nearly two centuries and a
half, the Ursuline Convent still stands. At the period we speak of, the ground was not even
cleared; the woodman's axe was the first implement needed in the construction of the new monastery;
tradesmen were few, wages high, and the poverty of the country extreme. But at the time of
the Venerable Mother's prophetic vision, more than once referred to, our Lord had told her
to go to Canada, and there build a house for Jesus and Mary. He who had given the command would,
she knew, supply the means for its execution, so with boundless trust in His providence, she
confidently undertook her task, although to human prudence it might have seemed hopeless.

CHAPTER III.

WORK AT THE "LOUVRE."--PIETY, ZEAL, AND PROGRESS OF THE PUPILS.--LITTLE TRUANTS.--BANQUETS.

Meantime, the work of zeal and love went on actively at the "Louvre." Besides the "seminarists,"
or resident pupils, who were always as numerous as space admitted, and the day scholars, who
included all children old enough to be taught, adults of both sexes received daily instruction--the
women in the school-room, the men at the parlour grating--all manifesting equal eagerness to
hear the word of God; all afterwards showing in their altered lives the miraculously transforming
power of Divine grace. So great was the desire of the seminarists to learn, that they would
ask their mistresses, to punish them if they failed in diligence; and when any one bad committed
a fault, she, of her own accord, begged pardon on her knees. The piety of these poor children
of the wilds was truly admirable, and especially so was the ardour with which they received
the doctrine of the Heal Presence of Jesus in His Adorable Sacrament. "I never saw livelier
joy," wrote the Mother St. Joseph, "than in three of our pupils, each aged twelve, when told
that they were to be admitted to the Holy Table at Easter. They listened, as if entranced,
to the instructions on the Most Blessed Eucharist, and seemed to possess a comprehension of
the Mystery of Love quite beyond their years. They begged to be allowed to fast on the eve
of their first Communion, a practice which they afterwards observed every time they communicated.
One day, while a Jesuit Father was speaking to them of their approaching happiness, a little
child of six ventured to present her baby pleadings to be allowed to join them. The Father
told her she was too young. "Oh, Father!" she said, "do not send me away because I am too young;
you will see that I shall soon be as old and as tall as my companions." She was allowed to
assist at the instructions, which she understood and retained so as to surprise all who questioned
her; nevertheless, she had to resign herself to wait yet longer for the much- desired day.
Her mother, coming soon after to see her, the child undertook to instruct her in the holy truths
of faith by the help of pictures. Having taught her to pray, she proceeded to initiate her
in the mysteries of a lesson in reading, pointing out the letters in a book. To please her
dear child, the good Mother repeated the sounds one by one as if she had been saying a lesson.
"When our child returns to us," she said to the Mothers, "she will prepare her father and me
for Baptism, which we are very desirous to receive." "The sentiments of our pupils on the Holy
Communion," wrote Madame de la Peltrie, "are most edifying. When asked why they desire so much
to receive it, they tell us that it is because Jesus Himself will enter their souls, to purify
and adorn them. The countenance of my god-daughter, Mary, sometimes actually beams with joy,
and, if questioned as to its cause, she is sure to answer, "I am soon to make my first Communion."
The Indian pupils were sometimes heard discussing what each, considered the greatest favour
she had received from God. The answer from one would be, "That He has made me a Christian;"
from another, "That He became man to rescue me from hell." On one of these occasions, a little
voice was heard to say, "The greatest favour that Jesus does us, is to give Himself for our
food in the Holy Eucharist." The speaker, though only nine years of age, had made her first
Communion a year and a half before. The Mother of the Incarnation, who mentions the circumstance,
adds the reflection, "Are not such sentiments admirable in children born in the very bosom
of barbarism and infidelity?" If a pupil saw a companion commit a fault, she checked her by
the simple words, "Take care, or your guardian angel will go away."

In proportion as the souls of these poor children opened to the softening influence of religion,
so did the hitherto latent qualities of their better nature manifest themselves more clearly.
In the genial atmosphere of charity, their hearts expanded as flowers in sunshine, developing
a depth, a constancy, and a delicacy of feeling which none would have suspected to underlie
manners so cold, and characters apparently so apathetic. They learned fully to appreciate,
and sought only how best they might return the tenderness of their devoted Mothers, and, as
affection is a ready teacher, they were not slow to discover that the best proof of their gratitude
would be found in strict compliance with the wishes of their instructresses; hence the docility
to directions, the submission to reproof, the respect for school regulations, exemplified in
the daily lives of the seminarists, and all the more to be admired that such practices were
foreign to their habits and repugnant to their nature. Madame de la Peltrie writes that they
showed her the deference and love of fond children, as well as a degree of refinement which,
she says, she would never have expected from savages. In her temporary charge of them during
the nuns' annual retreat, she found no difficulty in enforcing silence; it was enough for them
to know that their dear Mothers were spending the week with God; the mere fear of even slightly
disturbing them, proved a sufficient restraint. If the Foundress occasionally happened to be
absent for a short time on some errand of mercy, they were inconsolable until her return, which
they greeted with joyous acclamations. Once they were told that the Mother of the Incarnation
was ill, and would die if they made a noise. At the sound of the word die, they burst into
tears, and, with a consideration which would have done honour to more polished natures, they
kept perfectly still, afraid, as it seemed, to move, or almost to breathe, lest dreaded death
should come and claim their first, best earthly friend. As early as 1641, the Venerable Mother
described the converts in general as transformed beings--barbarians no longer, but fervent
Christians, animated, by a truly heavenly spirit. She, too, remarks, that in refinement of
feeling, they might have competed with many a favoured child of civilization, and so charmed
was she with the beautiful simplicity of their piety, that she declares she would rather have
listened to their unstudied eloquence, than to the finished oratory of the first speaker in Europe.

A remarkable characteristic of the converts, both adult and young, was their ardour for the
propagation of the faith among their countrymen; not only, then, had the Mothers the consolation
of seeing the fruit of their labours among their immediate pupils, but that also of knowing
that through the zeal of these, the heavenly word would be borne far and wide over the pagan
land. So impressed were the Jesuit Fathers with the value of this kind of apostolate, that
they were wont to say, "One converted Indian, who leads a truly Christian life, can do more
good among the infidels than three missioners." This spirit of zeal early manifested itself
among the seminarists at the convent. It was admirable to hear the more grown teaching the
less advanced the Christian doctrine, repeating the questions which had been asked to themselves
at catechism, and exciting the interest of the new-comers by explaining the subject of a pious
picture, or relating an attractive history. Even some of the very young ones had their own
little mission of charity. One interesting child in particular, was to be seen surrounded by
a class of tiny ones younger than herself, whom she assiduously catechised, teaching them especially
how to prepare for confession, and exhorting them above all things never to conceal a sin.
To the zeal of a Huron girl named Teresa, the first Ursuline pupil of that nation, many of
her countrymen were indebted for their conversion. Though only about thirteen years of age,
she spoke to them of God with an earnestness and a force that they could not resist. One of
the converts, wishing to test her, feigned to have given up the idea of receiving baptism nearly
on the eve of the day fixed for its administration. Inexpressibly grieved, she reproached him
for his inconstancy in the strongest terms, but, finding that her eloquence seemed to produce
no impression, she hastened, all in tears, to the Mother of the Incarnation, beseeching her
to use her influence with the supposed apostate. "Oh!" she exclaimed in the vehemence of her
indignation, "if I could only have broken the grating which divided us, I would have beaten
him well!" The astonished Mother soon learned the truth, but it was difficult to undeceive
the sorely-afflicted Teresa.

Not seeing the Mothers during the eight days of their annual retreat, the savages concluded
that they concealed themselves to pray. On one of these occasions Teresa determined to imitate
them, so she hid behind the palisade, and spent the day in prayer. When discovered at last
by one of her companions, and asked what she was doing, she replied, "I hide like the Mothers
to pray for you, for myself, for the French, and for the Indians." "She is so constant in her
faith, so well instructed, so fervent," said one of her own race, "that it would seem as if
she had not been born a Huron. When she comes home she will be looked up to by the whole tribe.
Her teacher must surely be one of the wisest persons in all France." On her way back to her
own country, she was seized by the Iroquois, together with Father Jogues and some of her relatives,
and in her captivity not only retained her faith, but professed it with the heroism of a martyr.
Deeply concerned at her fate, the Ursulines interested all the authorities in her behalf, and,
thanks to the exertions of her good Mothers, her deliverance was stipulated for in the arrangement
of the articles of peace at the general meeting in 1645.

Besides religious and moral training, the seminarists received a simple elementary education,
comprising chiefly reading, writing, and needlework. Before long, two of the more grown were
able to write their own language so well as to venture on letters to an absent Jesuit Father.
Great was the delight of their parents when shown the mysterious productions. They took them
reverently into their hands, turned them cautiously in every direction, and begged to hear
the contents again and again, equally charmed and surprised to find that the paper could speak,
and in their own language too. It was always a matter of wonder to them to hear that a few
characters traced on paper could convey thought to the remotest distance.

Another object of intense amazement was the first clock brought by the missioners to the country
of the Hurons. They called it 'The Captain of the Day,' and many were the inquiries each time
they came, how often he had spoken since their last visit. Lest they should lose the benefit
of any of his remarks, they sometimes waited hour after hour to hear him speak again. They
were puzzled about his food, but never at a loss to interpret the stroke which announced the
hour of the good Fathers' frugal meal, in which they fully calculated on sharing.

The Indians are fond of music, so to attract the adults, the Mothers of Incarnation and St.
Joseph taught their little pupils to sing hymns, and many a grave chief listened with delight
to the simple lay, returning the compliment by a performance in Indian measure. A record has
been preserved of a certain old-fashioned stringed instrument in the convent which greatly
charmed the audience. Among the early pupils was a child of twelve, whose disposition was so
gentle that she received the name of Agnes, and whose ear was naturally so attuned to all sweet
sounds, that she was considered capable of being taught to accompany her own warble on the
said wonderful instrument. When her parents removed her in due time from school, still she
sang God's praises among the echoes of the woods-- not only sang herself, but taught to others
the hymns she had learned in her Ursuline home--gathering a little choir about her in the heart
of the silent wilderness, and making it her holy joy thus to promote piety among her companions.
The predestined child desired to consecrate herself to God in religion, but her Heavenly Father
accepted the wish, and called her to Himself at the age of fifteen.

But if the labours of the first Mothers were very richly repaid by the pupils in general, it
must be owned that their forbearance was often severely tried by some among them, known as
the vagrants of the woods. The wild, free life of the forest had charms for these, for which
all the comforts of civilization could not compensate. Like caged birds, they would flutter
against the bars, and, at the first opportunity, break through them, to fly back to their cabins
and independence. Once a young Algonquin was thus attacked by home-sickness; the Mothers did
their best to comfort and encourage her, but all in vain. The melancholy mood grew deeper and
darker--so dark at last, that, unable to bear the restraint any longer, the truant jumped through
the window, leaped the cloister palisade, and fled in the direction of the woods. In a few
minutes she looked back, expecting to see a persuer, but, finding that her flight had caused
no concern, she began already to repent of it. Her reception at home was rather cool, and when,
a few days after, she proposed to her mother to return to the monastery, the readily accorded
permission was accompanied by a significant hint not to leave again without being sent. With
a light heart, she presented herself at the convent door; but, alas! it would not open. Her
place, the portress told her, had been given to another pupil. Vain were her entreaties, her
tears and her sobs, for the Mother of the Incarnation had decided on strict measures with the
little wanderers, who, by their restlessness, disturbed the peace and order of the house. But
nothing like perseverance! Poor Catherine watched for the arrival of the day pupils, and so
effectually did she excite their compassion by her tale of woe, that they agreed to let her
fall into the ranks. When the door unclosed for their admission, she rushed to the feet of
the Mother of the Incarnation, confessed her fault, and asked pardon. Touched by her penitence
and promises the good Mother relented; Catherine was restored to favour, and never again did
she deserve a reproof or even a reproach.

Another child, aged eight, stole away from the monastery, and spent the winter with her parents
at some distance from Quebec. When they returned to the town in spring, she applied for re-admission,
but the request was refused. She persisted, but so did the Mothers too. At last she bethought
herself that by joining the procession on the festival of Corpus Christi, she would be entitled
to accompany her parents to the feast at the convent, which was always understood to follow
the devotions, and she calculated that once there, it would be easy to keep her ground. Accordingly,
she took her place among the guests, but when the time came for retiring, instead of joining
them, she threw herself on her knees at the door and repeated her petition. Another refusal--but,
determined to succeed, she crouched outside the door. Night came, and with it came rain, and
still the repentant culprit kept her post, so the kind-hearted Mothers were constrained to
admit her, and she eventually became an example of virtue to the school.

The banquets at the "Louvre," to which we have alluded, were conducted after a very original
fashion; the bill of fare was restricted to one dish, and this, as the receipt shows, could
be prepared with little expenditure of culinary skill, yet it fully satisfied the simple guests.
It was composed of bread, maize or pea-flour, and black plums, all boiled together; and, as
the savages relish unctuous food, a few melted tallow candles and some rich pork were added
for seasoning. On this dainty dish, as many as sixty or eighty Indians were occasionally regaled
at a time, in what they considered splendid style. The Indians have no fixed hours for meals.
Hunger is the signal for beginning; the disappearance of the provisions that for concluding.
The latter point is one of strict etiquette.

It would seem as if even the ingenuity of charity had left nothing undone for the gratification
of the poor savages, but it was not so. One day that Father Lalemant visited the school-room,
the children gathered round him with an air of mystery and importance, as if burdened with
some weighty secret. "Look at our clothes, Father," they said; "you can see that they are faded
and worn, and, as our Mothers do not give us new ones, we cannot look as smart as the French
girls, which makes us sorrowful." Much amused, the Father reported the complaint of the little
ones to the Venerable Mother. Without showing the least surprise at it, or reminding the children
of all her generosity, she at once provided each with a new red dress, adding new shoes and
stockings, and assisting to prepare the finery with her own hands, lest, as she said, any impression
of sadness might connect itself with the memory of their first instruction in the faith, and
the Divine seed be thus hindered from striking deep root and producing rich fruit.

Madame de la Peltrie had provided for the maintenance of six seminarists, but this number had
gradually swelled to eighteen, all of whom were not only supported but likewise clothed from
the common fund. The adult Indians who crowded to the monastery for instruction, also expected
and invariably received hospitality, which was, moreover, occasionally extended to the families
of the pupils. The pecuniary resources of the convent were wholly inadequate to meet so many
claims on its charity, and at the same time, defray its own moderate expenditure. But the self-
denying Mothers struggled bravely through their poverty, and by the generous aid of benefactors
in France, they managed not only to continue their alms to the adults and to retain their seminarists,
but by degrees considerably to increase the number of these last.

Among the first pupils were some of very tender age, little ones of six and less. One of these
was brought to the Mother of the Incarnation, all covered with small-pox. Young as she was,
she had attended her parents through the terrible malady, and after the death of both, had
contracted it herself. She recovered, and proved her gratitude to her devoted friend by showing
herself so perfect a model of obedience, that she would even anticipate orders, running to
put herself in the way if she thought there was a chance of her being employed. Another would
begin her baby prayers of her own accord the moment she awoke, say her rosary during Mass,
and recreate herself by singing little hymns. A third, of scarcely four, paralysed in all her
limbs, gave ample exercise to the patience of the kind mothers. Once her mistress had to rise
four times in one night to soothe the poor little sufferer. Next day, a companion remarked,
"Charity," for so the child was called, "Charity, you gave a great deal of trouble to your
mistress last night." "I know I did," coolly replied Charity, "but my dear mistress is very
good, and what she did for me was just what she would have done for the Child Jesus, if He
had been in my place." Ah, wise little one! you have found out the secret--"Whatever you did.
to one of these My least brethren, you did it to Me "(St. Matt. xxv. 40). In the eye of faith,
the untutored Indian was as exalted, because as much the representative of God, as the lady
of noble birth or even royal lineage; so, each object of loving care in that house of charity
might equally have said of every act of every Sister, "What she did for me, is what she would
have done for the Child Jesus in my place."

CHAPTER IV.

While the Mother of the Incarnation was thus spending her days in the practice of the heroic
charity and austere penance which possessed equal attractions for her, pursuing the work of
zeal which of all others she loved best, and living in the heart of what was, perhaps the most
fervent portion of God's Church in those days, it would appear to us as if, though still on
earth, she had partially anticipated heaven; but heaven, even on earth was not to be yet, for
the measure of her merits, and, therefore, of her sufferings, was not filled up. As we have
already more than once remarked, the Almighty had called her to a sublime degree of purity
of soul; to the end of life, therefore, He would furnish her with opportunities of advancing
in the virtue which here below can never attain its last perfection, some alloy of the love
of self mingling to the end with the love of God, even in the holiest. As the virtue is one
which thrives best under the cross, He would re-conduct her to her well- known place on Calvary,
and subject her once more to the salutary action of interior tribulation. She felt again as
if suddenly deprived of all the Divine gifts and favours, and reduced to the very extreme of
spiritual indigence. Her natural talents and capabilities seemed paralysed; desolation overwhelmed
her, temptations to anger, antipathy and even despair pressed on her. The last, especially,
became so importunate, that she seemed to herself sometimes on the very brink of the dread
abyss, and might have echoed the words of the Psalmist, "The sorrows of death have compassed
me, and the perils of hell have found me" (Ps. cxiv. 3). Not only had the Almighty apparently
withdrawn His gifts, but, hardest of all to bear, He had concealed Himself. Now and again a
ray of heavenly consolation beamed on her afflicted soul, but, like the lightning's flash on
the angry sky, it illumined for a moment, only to be followed by deeper darkness. To her internal
agonies were added external trials of various kinds, including most painful contradictions
and humiliations. Support from creatures there was none, and even the sympathy of friendship
was denied her. She seemed to have lost confidence in her holiest advisers, while, by the permission
of God, she herself became to others a subject of temptations to aversion. Oppressed with the
sense of her utter unworthiness, and brought down to the lowest depth of interior abjection,
she dared scarcely look at or address her Sisters. She was alone in her agony, like the Divine
Sufferer in the garden, and, in the spirit of utter annihilation of self, and entire abandonment
to God, her desolate heart re-echoed the sublime cry of His agony, "Father, not my will but
Thine be done."

It is her own teaching, that the nearer the soul approaches to God, the more distinctly also
she discerns her sinfulness and misery; the more clearly she sees the many hitherto unsuspected
windings and lurking- places of corrupt nature; the better, consequently, she understands how
numerous still are the impediments which must be removed before she can fully and freely expand
her wings and take her flight to her Lord. Of this truth she had now renewed personal experience.
In the high degree of Divine union to which she had attained, she saw her imperfections in
a clearer light than ever, and the view filled her with confusion and compunction. That by
the help of Divine grace, she had through life been preserved from every sin of deliberation,
was the opinion of competent judges, well acquainted with her soul's history. The imperfections
which she so bitterly deplored were, then, only an occasional infidelity to the grace which
had called her from early years to perfect detachment from creatures and from self, or, at
most, they were but the faults of frailty, ignorance, surprise and inadvertence, from which
even the saints are not exempt in this life; but, viewed as they now were in their closer contrast
with the sanctity of God, they assumed a more serious aspect than ever before. Her habitual
horror of the very slightest faults was intensified; her ordinary almost incredible care to
avoid them, increased. Inflamed with a holy zeal for the vindication of the rights of Divine
justice, as  well with an insatiable ardour for the triumph of God's pure love in her soul,
she humbly bowed beneath the hand that crucified her, confessing herself deserving of all chastisement,
and, praying that the last remnant of the love of self might be exterminated from her heart
at any cost of suffering and humiliation. 'O merciful Lord!' she cried, send me a thousand
torments, and as many deaths as I respirations, rather than permit that I should offend Thee.'
Looking on her slow interior martyrdom as the instrument in God's hand for the purification
of her soul, she would not have exchanged its pangs for imaginable joys united. Greatly as
her trials on this occasion must have promoted her personal sanctification, a second important
result was involved in them. In the generosity of her charity, she had offered herself to suffer
for the sins of two persons whose conversion she  most ardently desired; while, therefore,
the Almighty 'proved her as gold in the furnace, that she might found worthy of Himself' He
at the same time 'received her as a victim of a holocaust', that through her sufferings other
souls might be made worthy of Him too (Wisdom iii. 5,6). But if He accepted the oblation, and
rewarded the sacrifice, it was not until the victim had been entirely immolated.

As if to crown the tribulations of the Venerable Mother, it was while her interior trials were
at their height, that Madame de la Peltrie, the main pillar of the Ursuline foundation, resolved
to remove to Montreal, where a new settlement was about to be established as a check to the
incursions of the Iroquois. Monsieur de Maisonneuve, the destined founder, was accompanied
by a troop of colonists, brave and chivalrous as himself; also by Mademoiselle Mance, whose
particular mission was to open a convent of Hospital Sisters at Ville Marie, as the projected
city was to be called. The season being too far advanced for the commencement of operations,
the party passed the winter at Sillery, where Madame de la Peltrie made acquaintance with Mademoiselle
Mance. The intended foundation naturally formed an ordinary topic of conversation during the
long evenings, and so strongly was Madame de la Peltrie's interest in it excited, that in the
end, she resolved to give it her personal co- operation. Not being bound to the Ursulines by
vow or formal engagement of any kind, she was of course at perfect liberty to withdraw from
them, but the parting from one so dear was very painful to all, especially the much tried Mother.
The amiable Foundress had gained the affection and esteem both of the Sisters and the pupils,
cheerfully sharing the labours and privations of the one, and devoting herself in the self-sacrificing
spirit of true charity to the care of the others: all loved and regretted her, nevertheless
she departed, impelled by the desire to accomplish what she considered a more useful work.
In her zeal for souls, she would have flown, not merely to Montreal, but to the world's end,
and when it appeared to her that by going, she could extend her sphere of good, and thereby
more largely promote the glory of God, no hesitation was admitted. She was accompanied by Charlotte
Barre. On the 17th of May, 1642, the colonists landed on the Isle of Montreal.

Besides the trial to their feelings, the separation from their Foundress was a source of serious
pecuniary embarrassment to the Ursulines. If before, they had been poor, they were now reduced
to absolute destitution. Madame de la Peltrie having found it necessary to remove her furniture,
they retained only a few articles which they had brought from France, among the rest, three
beds for their fourteen pupils. "The children have to sleep on boards," wrote the Mother of
the Incarnation; "we do what we can to soften the hard couches, and as a substitute for bed
clothes, we borrow skins from the stores, the only alternative left us in our poverty." But
it was not the extreme indigence around her that afflicted the Venerable Mother; the example
of her Lord and Saviour had on the contrary rendered this precious in her eyes and dear to
her heart If her soul was rent, it was chiefly by the dread of having to dismiss her beloved
pupils back to their native wilds. In one single year, fifty Indian children had been taught,
and more than seven hundred adults of both sexes had received spiritual and corporal aid. Was
this magnificent harvest to be thus prematurely blighted?

Monsieur de Bernieres had formally announced the necessity of dismissing the pupils and discontinuing
the new building, adding, that if Madame de la Peltrie persisted in her present intention,
the Sisters would have no alternative but to return to France, unless indeed some other charitable
person would undertake the responsibility of providing for them. But gloomy as were the prospects
of the little community, the Mother of the Incarnation never wavered in her trust in God. She
resolved to retain her scholars, to distribute her accustomed alms, and to continue the building,
writing as usual to Monsieur de Bernieres for supplies for the house, and inclosing him the
bills for the workmen's wages. Who that witnessed her calm, brave fortitude, could have suspected
how immensely the weight of the visible cross was aggravated by that of the invisible? Yet
it is certain that the external was but a faint image of the internal. Still, beneath their
united pressure, she discharged her multiplied exterior duties with a punctuality, an energy
and a presence of mind which proved the extent of her disengagement from self, while by her
exactitude to the least of the conventual observances, she continued to sustain her claim to
the title of a living rule. Acting on her own maxim, that fidelity in small things is the guardian
of fidelity in greater, she knew no distinction between lesser and more important regulations;
in her view, all were of equal consequence. She took her share of the menial duties, which
for the first years weighed heavily on the community in consequence of their having no lay
Sisters. No indisposition or infirmity, no pressure of business or excess of fatigue could
induce her to deviate in one iota from the practices of common life. Ever active and indefatigable,
she might be seen, now teaching and tending her dear Indian children, now directing the building
of the new convent, now superintending the domestic details of the monastery, and all the time
fulfilling to the least particular the duties of her responsible office as Superior. She was
the last to retire to rest at night, the first to appear in the morning, and ever to be found
either in communion with God, or engaged in the active occupations of her charge.

It was at this period that she commenced correspondence with several religious communities,
and numerous pious seculars in France, in order to engage their interest for the Indians. The
number of her letters is something wonderful, especially during her first twelve years in Canada,
and the alms which she thus procured, supplied the most pressing wants of the institution.
"This is but my second letter," she says in one place, "since the arrival of the ships; they
leave in a fortnight, and I have to answer two hundred." In another, she remarks, "My hand
is so tired that I can scarcely hold the pen, but so it is that we must pass our time, while
waiting for the eternity which will never pass." The words, "Short labour, eternal rest," formed
her ordinary motto. Besides her letters on business to persons of all conditions, she maintained
a constant correspondence with her son and her niece from the time of their joining, the one
the Benedictine, and the other the Ursuline Order. These last, like all her spiritual letters,
are replete with solid maxims of practical piety, and manifest a knowledge of the secrets of
the interior life which could have been acquired only in her close and habitual communications
with God. While going through this almost incredible amount of work, she never lost her calm
self-possession and firm control over natural feeling. More than twenty times in one morning,
it has happened her to be interrupted at an occupation, and never by look or word was she known
to betray annoyance or impatience.

The first elections at the Quebec Convent took place on the 12th of June, 1642, when the Mother
of the Incarnation resumed the burden which for the previous three years she had borne by the
appointment of the Archbishop of Tours. On the twenty-first of the following November, the
feast of the Presentation of the Blessed Virgin, the little community bade adieu to the miserable
dwelling which had sheltered them for three years, and become endeared as the scene of their
first labours and their first successes in Canada. The new building was in so unfinished a
state as to be barely habitable; consequently the first winter was one of extreme suffering
from cold. Stoves were a luxury unknown for many a year, and to preserve themselves from being
frozen at night, the poor Mothers had to sleep in something like wooden chests. Notwithstanding
its many inconveniences, the new convent excited the unbounded admiration of the Indians, especially
the children, who were overjoyed at the prospect of inhabiting so splendid a "Cabin."

After the Venerable Mother had borne her weight of mental anguish for three years, the Almighty
was pleased to alleviate it, propitiated as it would seem by a new self-imposed and very heroic
act of humiliation. Externally too, prospects brightened. After spending eighteen months in
Montreal, Madame de la Peltrie resolved to return to Quebec. Her zeal for the conversion of
the savages urging her to attempt even impossibilities, she had for a time entertained serious
thoughts of penetrating to the country of the yet pagan Hurons, but a Jesuit Father just returned
from those missions, dissuaded her from an undertaking so far above her strength. In compensation,
she provided for the permanent support of an additional missions in that district. While at
Montreal, she wrote to the Mother of the Incarnation to explain that her great inducement in
going there, had been the hope of establishing a convent of Ursulines in the town, a new proof
that her holy ardour for the salvation of souls was worthy of all praise. During this visit,
she stood sponsor at the baptismal font for an Algonquin Chief.

It is easier to imagine than to describe the joy with which her return was greeted by the Sisters,
the pupils, and most of all, the Mother on whom had fallen the heaviest portion of the burden
entailed by her absence. Now, no future parting need be dreaded. To the last breath of life
she would cling to the friends whose difficulties and troubles she had so generously shared
from the first, and among the most precious of her legacies to the Ursulines would be ranked
the example of her zeal, her charity, her humility, and her admirable self-abnegation. Without
assuming the obligations of a religious, she conformed in all respects to the rule and discipline
of the house, and so remarkable was her punctuality, that the signal for regular observance
was never given with greater exactitude, than when it happened to be her turn to ring the bell.

CHAPTER V.

THE MOTHER OF THE INCARNATION A VICTIM FOR HER SON AND HER NIECE.-- CONVERSION OF BOTH.--MOTHER
ST. ATHANASIUS ELECTED MOTHER SUPERIOR.

The mental sufferings of the Mother of the Incarnation had abated at the end of three years,
but they were very far from having wholly ceased. They were to be traced in part, as we have
seen, to that heroic act of self-immolation by which she had offered herself as a victim to
Divine justice for the salvation of two erring souls very dear to her heart, and until grace
should have fully triumphed over both, her martyrdom was not to terminate. These objects of
her holy solicitude were her son, and one of her nieces.

The former, as may be remembered, had applied for admission to the Jesuit novitiate, much about
the time of the Venerable Mother's departure for Canada, and not being considered suitable
for the Order, had been rejected. The disappointment preyed on him for a while, but hope soon
succeeded to despondency. If the cloister was closed, the world, he argued, was open to him.
Why not then seek in the latter, the happiness which he had vainly dreamed of finding in the
former? Why not choose one among the many paths to distinction which untried life held out
so temptingly, and take his chance of success as others had done before him? Lured onwards
by ambition, he resolved to settle in Paris, naturally supposing that the Queen's well-known
veneration for his saintly Mother, would secure him her favour. The Duchess d'Aiguillon at
once offered him her patronage, and the difficulties of the first start being thus happily
removed, he seemed free to select his road to fortune.

And was he then really destined for nothing better than the slavery of the world? Could it
be true that that worthless world was one day to boast of having thrown its shackles round
the heart of the son of Marie Guyart? She had consecrated his soul to God before his eyes had
opened to the light; she had taught him his first prayer; she had given him his first impression
of piety; she had instilled his first lesson, that it were better far to die a thousand deaths
if that were possible, than live to commit one mortal sin. Had the remembrance of her teaching
utterly vanished, and the last trace of her maternal influence quite faded away? No, that could
not be. The mother, who like her, has rightly understood the words maternal influence, and
early taken care to establish her own, will hold the key to her child's heart while ever his
heart throbs. Vast intervals may separate that mother and child; oceans and years may lie between
them, and still the mother's words will retain their grasp of her boy's soul, starting from
its depths in the hour of temptation, to awaken the sweet echo of early lessons, and revive
the memory of that last promise at parting, to be true to God, to conscience and the maternal
teaching.

And if perchance the child should have forgotten the maxims and rejected the control of the
mother, still can her influence reach his heart through the sure channel of her prayers and
tears. The Christian mother's prayers fall on the soul of her prodigal child like genial sunshine
on the drooping plant; her tears like cool dew on the parched earth--they revive, they warm,
they soften. He cannot resist them, for they come laden with the heavenly grace which they
have been the blessed means of winning from the all-merciful Heart of Jesus. This it was Claude
Martin's happiness to experience. While he thought only of plunging into the vortex of the
world, the Mother of the Incarnation prayed, and wept, and suffered without intermission to
obtain his entire conversion. "It could not be that a child of those tears should perish."
[Footnote: Words of a Bishop to St. Monica, with reference to St. Augustine.] As may be anticipated,
his rebellious heart was finally won to God, wholly and for ever.

The circumstances of his conversion are singular. It happened one day that, weary of the noise
and bustle of the great city, he retired to his quiet room, to study. Before long he was disturbed
by a knocking at the door, but, although he opened it promptly, he could see nobody. He resumed
his study only to be a second and a third time similarly interrupted, and with a similar result.
The occurrence was so strange, that he could explain it to himself only as the wondrous action
of the hand of God. The voice of grace spoke to his heart, even more distinctly than the sound
at the door had spoken to his ear. Without one moment's hesitation, he flew to Dom Raymond
of St. Bernard, his mother's former director, and told him of the mysterious incident which,
in an instant had dispelled his dreams of ambition, subdued his will, and changed him into
a new being, and he concluded the strange communication by beseeching the Father in earnest
terms, to guide him to the road to which God called. The unexpected news of the next day, was,
that Claude Martin had suddenly renounced his very brilliant prospects in the world to join
the Order of St. Benedict.

The joy and gratitude of his holy mother at the blessed tidings may be imagined. "It would
be difficult, my very dear son," she writes, "to express the consolation which your letter
afforded me. Impressed with the dangers to which you were exposed, I have suffered much on
your account, especially during the past year, still I have ever been sustained by the firm
hope that our all-good God would never utterly forsake the son from whom I had parted for His
dear sake alone, and now I find that His mercy to you has not only realized, but surpassed
my expectations. The world offered you some advantages, it is true, but how immeasurably inferior
to the blessing which God has bestowed! 62). The happiness in store for you is infinitely beyond
any which this world could give. 'Count then all things here below to be but loss that you
may gain Christ' (Phil. in. 8). The example of your holy Father St. Benedict inculcates this
generosity of spirit; imitate it faithfully, that so I may have the consolation of soon hearing
that my uninterrupted prayers of many years for your sanctification have at last found acceptance
with God. I never pass a day without offering you as a sacrifice to Him on the Heart of His
well- beloved Son, desiring and supplicating that you may be consumed as a perfect holocaust
on that Divine Altar. If any one were to tell me that you had died a martyr's death, I think
I should expire with joy; but be faithful to grace, die constantly to self, imitate the many
eminent servants of God sanctified in your Order, and not only will the Almighty make you a
great saint, but He will grant you the reward of a martyr too. If He should mercifully bring
you to your religious profession, let me know the joyful tidings. Tell me also the particulars
of your call to religion, and the manner of your correspondence with it. In a word, let me
have the consolation of participating fully in your spiritual treasures. Pray for me very often.
I meet you many times a day in God, and speak of you unceasingly to Jesus and Mary."

The novice embraced the cross of religion with holy ardour, and bore it with persevering fidelity.
Cordially despising the world which had well nigh betrayed him, he renounced it thoroughly,
and directed all the affections of his heart to God alone. Looking on religious perfection
as the only object worthy of his ambition, he pursued the one great end with a fervour and
an earnestness which ensured his rapid progress. His success in his vocation, and the diminution
of his mother's trials, all along kept such equal pace, that she might safely have judged of
the one by the other. Hence, when obscurity again enveloped her soul, she inferred that some
obstacle to his profession had arisen, and so the event proved. The difficulty being happily
removed, he was permitted to seal the irrevocable act of his consecration to God by the solemn
vows. After his promotion to the priesthood, he was appointed to some of the principal offices
of his Order, and his humility taking the alarm, he wrote to his mother of his regret at being
compelled to emerge from his dear solitude. "Do not say, my son," she replied, "that you prefer
an obscure life to a higher sphere of action. Love the duties of the latter, not because they
are more important in the eyes of men, but because they are in the order of God's will for
you. It is well that you should be impressed with your nothingness, for on that foundation
it is that the Almighty will erect the edifice of your perfection; but content yourself wherever
He places you--there for you is sanctity. Whether your position is a high one or a low, be
humble, and you will be happy." After having rendered important services to his Order, and
contributed to the reformation of several abbeys, Dom Claude Martin died in the odour of sanctity
at Marmoutier, on the 9th of August, 1696, aged seventy-seven. He survived his holy mother
over twenty years, and after her death wrote the history of her life, employing principally
as material her own relation of a portion of God's wondrous dealings with her, and her voluminous
correspondence with himself.[Footnote: This history, with that of Pere Charlevoix, forms the
foundation of all the existing biographies of the Venerable Mother. Dom Claude Martin likewise
published two volumes of her letters, the one the spiritual, the other the historical; her
explanation of the Christian Doctrine ("Grand Catechisme,") and her Retreats. For recent reprints
of all we are indebted to the Abbe Richaudeau, a distinguished ecclesiastic of Blois. The Ursulines
of Quebec possess, and prize as treasures, different articles once belonging to the son of
their saintly Mother; among others, a silver reliquiary containing a precious particle of the
true Cross.]

The Venerable Mother's work of zeal, though far advanced, was not completed. She had happily
obtained the conversion of her son; when she had suffered more, she would be rewarded by that
of her niece also, but not until then would her self-imposed task of charity be perfected.
The niece alluded to had been from her birth a special object of her holy aunt's interest.
The idol of her mother, no pains had been spared for the cultivation of her mind and the formation
of her character; yet, notwithstanding all, she bade fair to turn out a frivolous worldling,
unless arrested by Almighty grace. She was but fifteen when introduced to the gay circles of
fashion, in which her personal attractions and brilliant accomplishments particularly fitted
her to shine. Flattered at finding herself the object of general attention, she accepted the
homage without pausing to weigh its sincerity, too dazzled by the glare of the world, too dizzy
from the excitement of pleasure to be capable of discerning the serpent lurking among the flowers.
A rude shock was to awaken her from her short, sweet dream.

Among the many claimants for her hand, one had resolved to secure the prize by stratagem, as
he evidently could not hope to win it by persuasion. Accordingly, one day as she was going
to Mass, he had her waylaid, forced into a carriage, and rapidly driven to his country seat,
hoping much from the eloquence of a lady of his acquaintance whom he had engaged to meet her
there and advocate his cause. Her mother very soon released her from her embarrassing position,
but her difficulties were not yet over. On the death of that dear protectress, which occurred
soon after, her unprincipled persecutor returned to the charge, although the law had taken
cognizance of his first offence, and subjected him to well- merited penalties. The more effectually
to gain his ends, he had recourse on this occasion to the intervention of the Duke of Orleans,
whom he succeeded in persuading that the rich and beautiful heiress was his affianced bride,
representing that the separation was as painful to her as to him, and earnestly begging an
order for her restoration. Her guardian, clearly seeing that a convent alone could afford her
a safe asylum, advised her to take refuge in one until the storm should have blown over. As
this seemed the best thing to be done, she decided on applying for a temporary lodging at her
dear aunt's old home, the Ursuline Monastery, in her native city of Tours. But even to this
secluded abode persecution followed her, and at last thoroughly wearied out, she formed the
dangerous resolution of embracing the religious state, rather to free herself from importunity,
than with any wish to consecrate her life to God. No wonder that with her heart, and hopes
and thoughts in the world, she should have been unable to appreciate, or even to discover the
hidden happiness of her quiet cloistered home. No wonder that the days should have seemed long
the observances wearisome, the duties monotonous, and uninteresting. But, oh! the wondrous
power of prayer which draws down grace from heaven to refresh the soul, as the mountains attract
the moisture-laden clouds to fertilize the earth! Separated in person from the object of her
holy affection, but closely united to her in God, the Mother of the Incarnation prayed without
ceasing that grace might do its admirable work in her, through its own unsearchable ways. She
prayed that the bitter lesson which life had early taught, might bear its abundant fruits;
that the desolate child might seek a balm in the Blood, and a home in the Heart of Jesus; and
that having learned by experience how different are the servitude of God and that of the world,
she might cling to the one and loathe the other evermore and the petition was fully granted.

When the time came for assuming the religious habit, the novice might well have doubted her
own identity, so strangely and utterly was she changed. Illusion had vanished, and truth had
triumphed In laying aside the secular dress, she seemed to be, in a moment mysteriously divested
of the spirit of the world. Its imaginary attractions ceased to tempt, now that she could see
them in their false colouring; its deceitful promises ceased to allure, now that she could
correctly interpret their hollowness and insincerity. And if her ideas of the world were changed,
so likewise were her views of the religious life. Deeply appreciating the immense favour which
God had conferred on her in calling her to it, she devoted herself heart and soul to all its
duties, embracing its penitential rigours with holy eagerness, and making it her great aim
to hide her good works from all but God. She pronounced her vows with a joy that was more of
heaven than earth, and would be named 'Mary of the Incarnation;' that hearing herself called
by the name of her aunt, she might be perpetually stimulated to imitate her virtues. She had
the advantage of a constant correspondence with Her, and after a most holy life, went to rejoin
her in the blessed home to which the saintly Mother had long preceded her. In a letter of October,
1671, we meet the following words, the last ever addressed by the Venerable Mother to the beloved
niece whom she had been the first to offer to God at her birth, and for whose salvation she
had endured so much:--"Oh! how ardently I desire that you may become a saint, at the cost of
any suffering or sacrifice to myself! As my farewell, permit me to say to you in the words
of our Lord, 'He that humbleth himself shall be exalted.'"

After having borne her heavy interior crosses for seven years, with only partial and temporary
alleviation, the Mother of the Incarnation was inspired to apply for relief to the Blessed
Virgin. It was on the Feast of the Assumption, 1647. Hardly had the petition been presented,
when it was granted. Suddenly she felt, she says, as if divested of a leaden garment, which
had long oppressed her with its crushing weight, and on the arrival of the next vessel from
Europe, she learned that the period of her emancipation from suffering exactly coincided with
that of her niece's clothing in the convent at Tours. Her soul, she writes, overflowed with
a peace which it would be impossible to describe in human language. Capable of understanding
the advantages of tribulation, she blessed God with the Psalmist, that He had humbled her;
that He had led her through the thorny ways of the cross, to a higher experimental knowledge
of the sacred maxims of the Gospel, in which she found strength and support for her soul, not
only under the pressure of spiritual trial, but amidst the multiplied difficulties and embarrassments
which her arduous external duties entailed.

In order not to interrupt the history of the conversion of her niece, chronological order has
been slightly anticipated. Retracing our steps a short distance, we meet some new names intermingled
with those already so well known to us. The evergrowing eagerness both of French and Indians
for instruction, and the continual increase in the number of applicants for it, had rendered
more help indispensable. The harvest was greater than the few labourers could reap, so they
appealed once more to France, which sent them Mother Anne of the Seraphim, from Ploermel in
Brittany, in 1643, and the Mothers Anne of St. Cecilia, and Anne of our Lady from Tours, the
year following. The two first returned to France, the one after thirteen, the other after eleven
years in Canada.

In 1645, we find the Venerable Mother relieved from the burden of Superiority, which consistently
with the Constitutions of the Ursuline Order cannot be borne by the same individual for more
than six consecutive years. This high position had been a heavy cross to her, not only on account
of the responsibilities which it entailed, but also because its arduous duties left her comparatively
little time for the occupation which she prized beyond all others, the instruction of the Indians.
She was succeeded by Mother St. Athanasius, the two continuing alternately to govern the community
until death deprived them of the Venerable Mother.

The same year, according to the example of St. Teresa, she made a vow allowable only under
very exceptional circumstances, to do, say, and think in all things whatever she considered
most perfect, and most conducive to the glory of God, and so naturalized had she become by
long habit to the practice of every virtue, that this vow never caused her an uneasiness. "Although
I am but a poor sinful creature," she said, "God assists me to avoid every voluntary imperfection
inconsistent with my promise. If involuntary faults mingle with the observance of it, I trust
in His goodness to forgive them." She had at this time acquired that high degree of the habit
of virtue, in which its acts are performed not only without pain, but with pleasure.

The first novice professed in Quebec was Charlotte Barre of St. Ignatius, the former companion
of Madame de la Peltrie. She made her solemn vows on the 21st of November, 1648, and a few
days after, her example was followed by Sister Catherine of St. Ursula, the first Canadian
lay sister. Henceforth the little community continued gradually but steadily to increase in
numbers.

From the first opening of the schools, the advantages of education had been extended to the
French as well as to the Indians. Even in the small tenement which had served as a temporary
convent, there were two French boarders; at the period now under consideration the number had
increased to eighteen or twenty. That of the seminarists had amounted to eighty.

The year 1649 at which we have arrived, brings us to a tear-stained page in the annals of the
infant Church of Canada. By a reference to the introductory chapter, it will be seen that this
was the date of the massacre of the concerted Hurons and their saintly pastors, by the savage
Iroquois. The sad event afflicted every heart in the colony, but perhaps most of all, the hearts
of the Venerable Mother and of the Mother St. Joseph. The survivors, who numbered only four
or five hundred, took refuge in Quebec, where they were received with extreme kindness. Some
were located on a portion of the Isle of Orleans belonging to the Ursulines, and generously
transferred by them to the unhappy fugitives. To relieve their distress, the religious deprived
themselves of a good part of the food and clothing which they could very badly spare. The Mother
of the Incarnation admitted many of their daughters into the seminary, and undertook, though
in her fiftieth year, to learn the Huron tongue, that she might be enabled to impart the blessing
of spiritual instruction to the exiles. Her teacher was Father Bressani, who had almost miraculously
escaped from the hands of the Iroquois, after having undergone the ordinary course of torture
prescribed by savage cruelty. She and the Mother St. Joseph divided the charge of teaching
these new pupils, who besides ample instruction, received also generous alms. It was at this
time that bread was first seen to multiply in the hands of the Venerable Mother: with only
two or three loaves to divide among fifty or sixty persons, it was found that every one had
a sufficient share. She perceived the prodigy herself and said quite simply, as she went on
dividing the loaves, "I think our good God is multiplying this bread for His poor necessitous
creatures." Even before this special demand on her charity, she had arranged that whatever
might be their own distress, no Indian should ever be refused an alms at the monastery, and
for this purpose, a supply of Indian meal porridge was always kept in readiness. Once, when
she was Superior, a poor woman not satisfied with all she had already got, represented her
great want of a pair of shoes in addition. Without the least discomposure at the unreasonable
importunity, the charitable Mother took off her own and presented them to her, reserving for
herself a very poor, slight pair, quite insufficient to protect her from the cold. The time
was fast approaching, when she who had been ever ready to give her strength and life, and all
else that she possessed for the relief of others, was to be reduced to the last degree of want,
and left without even a shelter for her head!

CHAPTER VI

THE CONFLAGRATION AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.--REBUILDING OF THE MONASTERY.

The Ursulines had inhabited their new monastery seven years before it could be considered finished,
a delay easily explained by their great poverty. They were absolutely dependent for their support
on remittances from France, and these, besides being sent only once a year, were liable to
many casualties on the way. When the annual arrival of the vessels was unusually retarded,
the inconveniences to the colony in general, and to the Nuns in particular, can be better imagined
than described. What then must have been the distress of the Sisters, when as happened more
than once, a ship was wrecked, or seized by pirates, so that they were obliged to wait another
year for the very necessaries of life! Then, when the remittances did arrive, charity had so
many claims on them, and so many good reasons to urge in support of those claims, that but
little remained to carry on the building.

At the cost of many and many a sacrifice, it had been completed at last, when on the memorable
evening of December the 29th, 1650, the lay Sister in charge of the bakery, fearing that the
bitter frost would injure her carefully prepared dough, thought to make all safe by placing
a pan of hot coals in the bread trough, which she then carefully closed. To complete her imprudence,
she forgot to remove the live coals as she had intended, before retiring to rest. The consequences
may be anticipated. Towards midnight, the kneading trough ignited; the fire spread from the
bakery to the cellars in which the year's provisions were stored, and thence along the whole
lower story. The crackling of the flames, and the suffocation of the smoke providentially gave
the alarm in time to save the lives, but the lives alone of all the inmates. Amidst the general
terror and confusion, the Mother of the Incarnation retained her usual calm presence of mind.
Seeing that any attempt to preserve the house would be vain, she directed her efforts to collect
a few articles of clothing, but finding even this useless, she satisfied herself with securing
some papers of great importance to the community. While engaged in the hazardous service, she
was literally surrounded by flames. The fire raged fiercely in the story under her; it ran
with fearful rapidity along the roof above her; the church bell under which she had to pass
was pouring down a stream of melted metal, and still she escaped unhurt, though nearly suffocated.

Meantime, the rescued household were assembled under the ash tree, so closely connected by
tradition with her loved and venerated memory. All were there except one, but that one was
the most precious o any. Had she perished,--she, the soul, the living model, the cherished
Mother of the community? Each longed, but none dared to ask the question. Almost breathless
from anxiety, yet hoping against hope, the little crowd stood silently awaiting the issue.
Happily their fears were soon dissipated; good angels had folded their wings round the venerated
Mother and screened her from the flames. Yes, it was she whom they saw advancing. Even if she
had not been distinctly visible in the strong, clear light of the blazing house, they would
have recognised her by that air of quiet self-possession which nothing could disturb; that
sweet serenity which nothing could ruffle. But what a sight for the tender-hearted Mother!
All the children both French and Indian were standing on the snow, barefooted, very scantily
clad, shivering and trembling, and pressed close together for greater warmth. Madame de la
Peltrie, so frail; so delicately nurtured, so sensitive to cold, sharing their sufferings;
worst of all, the Mother Sister Joseph in her failing health, pierced through by the biting
air, and looking as if she would expire momentarily. It was a scene well calculated to display
the virtue of the Mother of the Incarnation, which never shone out more brightly. The heroism
of her resignation seemed even to pass into the hearts of her companions in affliction, who
falling on their knees, returned thanks to God in the spirit of the martyrs for having been
thought worthy of so bitter a trial. The spectators wondered, but the Mother afterwards explained
the mystery; "He," she said, "who tried, strengthened and consoled us too." The night was calm,
but intensely cold; the sky brilliantly studded with stars. Showers of sparks poured from the
burning building on the neighbouring forest, on the fort, and on the adjoining houses, menacing
the town with destruction. But for a light breeze which providentially arose at the moment,
and turned the course of the flames, it must have been consumed. Every effort had been made
to arrest the conflagration; the Jesuit Fathers in particular, bad been vigorous and untiring,
but when discovered, the fire had progressed too far to be checked. At imminent peril, the
Blessed Sacrament and some of the sacred vestments were saved. In less than two hours, nothing
remained of the monastery but the blackened walls. Clothing, provisions, furniture, all the
earthly possessions of the Ursulines were gone.

With great kindness, the principal citizens offered hospitality to the children, while the
Superior of the Jesuits conducted the Nuns to the convent of the Hospital Sisters, who opened
not alone their doors, but their hearts to their desolate visitors, clothing them from their
own wardrobes, placing the whole house at their disposal, and retaining them for over three
weeks as their prized and honoured guests. The day after the calamity, the Governor came to
offer his condolence; but sweeter than all to the hearts of the sufferers, was a deputation,
and an address of sympathy from the Hurons. Time was, when to use their own expression, the
grateful chiefs would have covered the ashes of the monastery with presents, but alas! of their
vanished glory nought remained but two wampum belts. [Footnote: Wampum. Small shells of various
colours formerly used by the North American Indiana as money, and strung like beads into broad
ornamental belts.] Such as they were, it was decided in solemn council that they should be
presented to the bereaved Sisters. Accordingly the deputation arrived, and the Grand Chief
delivered the oration, too long to be entirely inserted, but too beautiful in its simple language
and genuine feeling, to be entirely omitted. "Holy Virgins," he said; "you see before you the
miserable remnant of a once flourishing, now extinct nation. The little left to us, we owe
to you. Alas! the misfortune which has befallen you, renews our own woes, and re- opens the
source of our only partially dried tears. When we saw the beautiful house of Jesus consumed
in a moment before our eyes, the sad sight reminded us of the day when our own homes and hamlets
were delivered up a prey to the flames, and our country reduced to a heap of ruins. Holy Virgins,
you are then sharers in the misery of the poor Hurons, for whose melancholy fate you showed
such tender pity. You too are left without house, home, provisions or help, except the help
of that heaven to which your eyes are ever turned. If you belonged to our people, we should
try to console you by two presents, one intended to dry your tears, the other to add new strength
to your fortitude; but we have not seen you shed one tear over your misfortune; neither we
know have you buried your courage under the wreck of your fallen house. Surely it must be that
your hearts are too fixed on the treasures of heaven, to value those of earth."

"One thing we fear, that when your friends in France hear of your distress, they will pray
you so earnestly to return to them, that you will be unable to resist their entreaties, so
we shall be in danger of losing you, and with you, the chance of instruction for our children.
Have courage, holy Virgins, and prove that your love for the poor Indians is a heavenly love,
stronger than that which binds you to your relatives. We offer you these two wampum belts,
the one to attach you inviolably to our country; the other to found anew a house for Jesus,
where you can pray, and teach our children to do so too."

"We know you could not die happily, if at the last hour you had to reproach yourselves with
having loved your friends so much as to give up for their sakes the souls once dear to you
in God, and destined to be your eternal crown in heaven."

It cannot be doubted that the sympathy of the Hurons must have been very gratifying to the
Mothers, and have tended to cement the already strong tie which bound them to Canada. But the
tie was a Divine one, formed by, and wholly dependent on the will of God. "If the Almighty
decreed that we should return to France," the Mother of the Incarnation wrote to her son, "I
should go back with the same tranquillity as I came out. To go, or to stay, is a matter of
indifference, provided only God be glorified." In describing the events of the terrible night
of the 29th December, she tells him that looking on the disaster as the punishment of her sins,
she accepted it with perfect equanimity, only wishing that the chastisement were confined to
herself, since she alone deserved it, and beseeching God to spare her innocent Sisters. She
says that amidst the horrors of the conflagration, she enjoyed most profound interior peace,
undisturbed by a single emotion of regret, sadness, or uneasiness. That closely united in heart
with the will of Him who had permitted the blow, she desired that it might be accepted by all
in the spirit of the saints both of the Old and New law, who with humble and contrite hearts
blessed God under the heaviest afflictions and severest temporal losses.

This imperturbable tranquillity was founded on her perfect confidence in God. Tracing all human
events to His ordinance or permission, she sometimes wondered how it was that men should try
to reject His hand when it sends adversity, and submit to it willingly only when it bestows
prosperity, both being equally His gifts. The calmness of soul thus solidly grounded, must
necessarily have been very steady but in addition, the Mother of the Incarnation had, as we
know, received from God Himself a special gift of His own Divine peace.

Unwilling to burden the charitable Hospital-Sisters longer, the Ursulines resolved at the end
of three weeks, to take up their abode in a small house which Madame de la Peltrie had built
for herself within their enclosure, and afterwards generously given them as a school for the
Indians. Its dimensions were thirty feet by twenty, and it contained two rooms. Here, it was
decided that thirteen Sisters and some boarders should live as best they could, and as the
exclusion of converts seeking instruction was not to be dreamt or, the house was made to contain
a grated parlour in addition to a chapel, school, refectory, kitchen and dormitory. It had
need of an infirmary too, for in that abode of poverty, a well-beloved Sister was slowly wearing
her life away, amidst inconceivable sufferings and privations.  It was then only the end of
January, so that many months were still to elapse before help should come from France, but
far from losing courage, the heroic Mothers rejoiced at finding themselves reduced to such
utter indigence, as to be compelled to accept alms even from the poor, and so it happened that
notwithstanding their own want, the poorest of their neighbours would bring them presents,
one of a hen, another of a few eggs, a third of some trifling article of clothing. In their
generous charity, the people, not only shared with them all they could spare conveniently,
but moreover encroached on absolute necessaries. To complete the distress of the Sisters, the
vessels were delayed, and when they did come, they brought but the usual supplies of provisions
and clothing, the news of the disaster not having reached in time to secure an additional quantity.
But God had not abandoned His own. The Ursulines possessed a small farm, which from want of
cultivation, had hitherto yielded them no profit. Deeply touched by their extreme poverty,
their chaplain, Rev. M. Vignal, resolved to take it in hands, and not satisfied with merely
superintending, he worked, with the labourers, and more actively than any. The Almighty blessed
the charity, and the land produced an abundant crop of wheat, barley and peas, which proved
a valuable resource to the Sisters. This good priest was massacred by the Iroquois in 1661.

Meantime it had become evident to all interested in the success of the Nuns, that if they were
to remain in Canada, they would have to rebuild the convent. They had originally been of opinion,
that with some additions, Madame de la Peltrie's house might be made to afford them sufficient
accommodation, but on mature consideration, they determined to adopt the advice of their friends,
and to trust to Providence for the means of carrying it out. They were offered a loan free
of interest for six years, by the principal citizens headed by the Jesuits of the colony and
the Governor, M. d'Ailleboust. The good Fathers who had already assisted them most liberally,
promised the services of their lay brothers and workmen to help on the building. All this was
encouraging. The snow had hardly melted away when the Nuns began to clear the rubbish from
the foundations, and on the 19th of May, 1651, Madame de la Peltrie laid the first stone of
the second monastery precisely on the site previously occupied by the first. The burden of
care and responsibility again fell on the Venerable Mother, who as before, was charged with
the superintendence of the work. While we wait for the completion of the new building, let
us see how the Mothers contrived to carry on school work in the interim. The glance will show
us a pretty picture traced by the pen of one of their present descendants at the convent of
Quebec, in her interesting History of the Monastery.

The number of pupils instead of diminishing, has increased, however in- door accommodation
is scant as ever, so if we would assist at a lesson, we must be content with an academy of
a primitive kind, and yet, after all, it is one which may well satisfy the most fastidious
taste. For roof, it has the canopy of deep blue heaven; for study halls, the lordly forest;
for carpet, a fairy web of wild flowers. Here and there, the sun is glancing through the dense
foliage, and tinging his resting spots with gold. The ancient trees are looking glorious in
their bright, spring clothing; the soft breeze is singing its gentlest notes among the leaves;
all looks so fresh, so peaceful and so attractive in the sweet, cool shade, that we do not
wonder to hear of numerous candidates for admission to the extemporized academy. In after times,
traditionary honours will attach to some of those venerable trees; one in particular will be
so often commemorated, that people will learn at last to look on it in the light of an old
friend. Here it is; the well-known ash tree, [Footnote: This veteran of the wilderness remained
standing until the 19th of June, 1850, when bending under age and honours, it fell to the ground.
The wood has been carefully preserved for the sake of dear and old associations, and is used
in making ornamental crosses, and similar small devotional articles, as memorials of the Mother
Mary of the Incarnation.] under which, whenever she can quit her more pressing duties, we are
sure to find the Mother Mary of the Incarnation surrounded by her dear Indian children, to
whom she speaks with heavenly unction of "Him who made all things." How their dark eyes glisten,
and their little hearts swell, while they catch each word of life as it falls from her lips
to find an echo in their souls! A few steps farther is the famous walnut tree, and here we
meet a group of French pupils receiving the lessons of Mother St. Athanasius. At a future day,
many of these will be found in the ranks of the Ursuline or Hospital-Sisters; many more faithfully
discharging their responsible duties as heads of families, presiding over Christian households,
and training their children to virtue by word and example. Farther still, in the shadow of
some ancient monarch of the woods, are bark huts occupied by the Neophytes, whom we find participating
not only in the heavenly bread of God's word, but also in the small resources of their impoverished
teachers. Many of these too, will do the work of apostles in a humble way among their own tribes.
To crown the scene of beauty, the walls of the new monastery are visible in the distance, and
like the olive branch in the deluge, they speak oL hope.

Happily the hope was realized, and far more speedily too, than humanly speaking could have
been anticipated. Exactly one year after the first stone had been laid, the new monastery was
ready to receive its inmates. So triumphantly successful a termination to the arduous work,
was due in great part to the extraordinary natural energy of the Mother of the Incarnation,
but still more, to the intervention of her celestial Assistant, the Help of Christians and
Queen of heaven. On the 8th of the September preceding the destruction of the first monastery,
the community had formally placed itself under the immediate patronage of that glorious Queen,
choosing her with solemn ceremonial for its first and chief Superior. That she had graciously
condescended to accept the charge, was clearly manifested by the fidelity with which she discharged
the trust attaching to it. The marvellous rapidity which marked the erection of the new building,
the preservation of the workmen from the slightest accident during its progress, and the almost
total freedom of the community from debt at its completion, form a series of favours unhesitatingly
ascribed by the Venerable Mother and the Sisters to the manifest protection of their "First
Superior," the "Virgin most powerful, most merciful and most faithful."

The personal devotion of the Mother of the Incarnation to our Blessed Lady, dating from her
earliest years, had grown with her growth, and strengthened with her strength. Her childhood's
prayer had been that, even in this life, she might be permitted to see her dear Heavenly Mother,
and, if the petition was not granted literally, it may at least be said to have been at this
time answered substantially. She did not see the Blessed Virgin, she says, with her corporal
eyes, but, from the commencement to the completion of the building, she had her as constantly
and as vividly present to mind and heart, as if she did. She felt her ever by her side, and
in her company encountered hardships and dangers without fear. Long accustomed to recur to
her in the emergencies of life, she transferred to her, if we may say so, the whole responsibility
of the present undertaking, referring to her and consulting her as its first and chief Directress.
No wonder, then, that it should have been crowned with extraordinary success. "It was never
known in any age, that those who had recourse to Mary were abandoned by her" (St. Bernard).
The Venerable Mother, who from the dawn of reason had loved her and trusted in her, could not
surely be the one to inaugurate a new experience! So far from it, that some years after the
present date, we find her writing, in allusion to the favours of her heavenly Protectress,
"Our Blessed Mother assists us in all our wants, and guards us as the apple of her eye. In
her own sweet way, she watches over our interests, and relieves us in our embarrassments. We
are indebted to her for having many times passed safely through overwhelming difficulties,
and, among other benefits, for the rebuilding of our monastery after it had been totally destroyed
by fire. What can I fear while shielded by protection at once so loving and so powerful?"

On the 19th of May, 1652, the Ursulines took possession of their second monastery. The great
reputation which their schools enjoyed rendered the event one of general interest to all classes.
Pleased at the opportunity of testifying their respect for the devoted Mothers, the inhabitants
of Quebec determined to make the occasion one of great solemnity. Accordingly, the whole population,
ecclesiastic and lay, assembled near the house of Madame de la Peltrie; and thence accompanied
the Nuns to their new residence. The Most Adorable Sacrament was borne at the head of the long
procession to the convent chapel; the Forty Hours' prayer was at once commenced, and on each
of the three days of its continuance, processions again went out from each of the churches
in Quebec to the Ursuline chapel, the chant of the Litanies resounding all along the way. Well
might the Mother of the Incarnation say that Divine Providence shows itself a good Mother to
those who place their whole reliance on its aid.

About thirty years later, the second monastery, like the first, was consumed by fire, yet not
wholly destroyed. The walls raised by the Mother of the Incarnation under the protection of
the Queen of Heaven, withstood the flames, and after the lapse of more than two centuries,
they are still standing. They form the central portion of the edifice yet known at this remote
day as the Ursuline Convent of Quebec.

CHAPTER VII.

LAST ILLNESS AND HAPPY DEATH OF MOTHER ST. JOSEPH.

In the procession to the new convent, one familiar face was missing: Mother St. Joseph, the
first companion of the Mother of the Incarnation, was also the first of the little band called
home to heaven. Her death and life were so consistent, that the one who knew her best, summed
up her panegyric in two words--"She lived a saint, and she died one." She seemed, indeed, to
have been specially privileged by Divine grace from her very infancy, manifesting in early
childhood an instinctive love of the beautiful virtue of the angels, and a singular attraction
to the poor and afflicted. When only nine years of age she was sent, at her own request, to
the Ursuline Convent at Tours, where she made her first Communion with extraordinary fervour.
From the period of His first sacramental visit to her soul, our Blessed Lord continued to draw
her irresistibly to Himself. Docile to His Divine call, she obtained the reluctant permission
of her fond parents to consecrate herself wholly to Him, and at the early age of fourteen,
exchanged her brilliant prospects as heiress of two noble houses, for the poverty, seclusion,
and mortification of the religious life. Her choice fell on the monastery where she had been
educated, and here it was her happiness to be placed under the guidance of the Mother of the
Incarnation, at that time in charge of the novices. After the usual probation, she received
the habit, and with it the name of St. Bernard, and in due time completed her first sacrifice
by holy profession. She continued to edify her sisters by the example of virtues suited rather
to a soul far advanced in religious perfection, than to one just touching the mysterious threshold;
and, as hers was one of those gifted natures pleasing both to God and man, she charmed and
delighted her companions by her amiability and cheerfulness, as much as she edified them by
her sanctity. Her great fear was, lest the attention and consideration by which she was surrounded,
should prove any obstacle to her progress in perfection.

Some time after her profession she had a mysterious vision, in which the world was represented
to her under the symbol of a vast enclosure, abounding in all the delights which here below
are wont to fascinate and captivate the hearts of men. She noticed that all who permitted themselves
to be attracted too closely by the false glare were at once hopelessly entangled, as if a net
had been cast around them, and among the unhappy victims she even recognised an acquaintance
of her own. What terrified her most was, that having herself taken a few steps forward, and
then, in great alarm, attempted to retreat, she found all means of egress closed, so that there
appeared no alternative but to advance. As she was on the point of giving herself up for lost,
she was attracted by the sight of a band of young persons arrayed in the costume of Canadian
savages, the foremost of whom bore a banner inscribed with unknown characters, and she seemed
to hear them say, "Fear not, Mary, for through us you will be saved." Then they formed into
two lines, leaving a passage between them, through which she effected her escape in safety.
It was not until her subsequent appointment to the Canadian Mission, that she understood the
connection between this supernatural warning and her own destiny; but, although the vision
remained for a time unexplained, it served as a strong stimulus to her already ardent zeal
for the salvation of souls, especially those of the savages. We have already noticed how manifest
was the hand of God in her appointment as the companion of the Mother of the Incarnation to
Canada, and we are, therefore, quite prepared to hear of great fruit from her labours in that
country. The Almighty seemed, indeed, to have endowed her with some singular attraction for
the Indians, young and old. So great was their veneration for her, and, in consequence, so
irresistible her influence over them, that the name of "Mary Joseph, the Holy Virgin," soon
became a household word among the Hurons and Algonquins. Charity rendered her an eloquent pleader,
and many and generous were the donations which at her prayer found their way from her old home
in France, to the wigwams of her dear savages. To the end of life, her greatest earthly joy
was to find herself surrounded by her beloved converts, forty or fifty of whom--men, women,
and children--might constantly be seen gathered round her, listening to her words with rapt
attention. If subsequent exhaustion had not revealed how much the effort had cost her, it might
have been thought, when her sufferings became acute towards the end of life, that she had forgotten
them in the pleasure of instructing her poor people. When the destruction of the monastery
had reduced the inmates to utter destitution, her parents employed every argument to induce
her to return to France. The Mothers at Tours joined in the request, but her invariable answer
was, that she would rather share the coarse, scanty fare of the savages to the end of her life,
or even die a thousand deaths, if that could be, than prove herself thus unfaithful to her
vocation and ungenerous to her God.

Fidelity to her calling had been the watchword of her existence, and now that her time of merit
had nearly run, no close observer could fail to see that this undeviating fidelity had produced
rich fruits. To analyse her character as a religious, would be simply to attribute to her every
virtue which, belongs to a perfect one. Our Lord once showed her her soul under the figure
of a very beautiful and strongly-fortified castle, and He warned her to watch cautiously over
its external approaches, promising that He would guard the interior of the edifice. In compliance
with this direction, she resolved to surround the mystic castle with the deep trenches of humility,
and so well did she succeed, that unfeigned contempt of self breathed at last in every act
and thought of her life, inspiring a love and desire of humiliation which secured for those
who tried her, the warmest gratitude of her heart, and the most devoted of her services. Not
satisfied with mediocrity in any virtue, she carried mortification to an absorbing love of
the cross; charity, to the sacrifice of every natural feeling; obedience, to child-like submission,
spiritualized by faith; reverence for the rule, to most minute observance of its least prescription.
She also attained an eminent degree of prayer and union with God.

For more than four years before her happy death, she had to endure the two-fold martyrdom of
anguish of soul and great physical suffering. Yet while the wearing fever of prolonged consumption
slowly undermined her life, so wonderfully did her great courage sustain her, that she seldom
kept her bed, or relinquished her work. If sometimes compelled to yield to exhaustion and pain,
she received the attention of her Sisters with so much humility and gratitude, that all felt
it a happiness to render her any service. Far from complaining, she was confused when others
showed compassion for her, and in return for their offers of kind offices, was always ready
to remark that they themselves required indulgence more than she did. She learned at last to
rejoice in the sufferings which she looked on as precious pledges of the love of her Divine
Spouse, and that she should lose no part of her treasure, she desired to suffer without consolation
or relief, indemnifying herself by practices of voluntary mortification for the occasional
alleviations forced on her by charity. Towards the end, dropsy was added to her complicated
maladies, and so, for the last two months, she was compelled to yield to the claims of utterly
worn-out nature. Let us visit her in the humble lodging where those two closing months of life
were passed, and we shall feel constrained to own, that the scene before us is one very grand
and beautiful in the eyes of faith, whatever may be its aspect in those of the world.

She whose still young life is thus gradually ebbing away, might be now enjoying in her luxurious
home all the comforts which wealth can purchase, but because she preferred the poverty of Jesus
Christ to the treasures of earth, she is surrounded in lieu of them by unmistakable traces
of abject indigence. Her bed of death is formed of one of the narrow wooden shelves which run
in tiers all round the small apartment as a substitute for bedsteads, the highest reached by
a ladder. Adjoining this common dormitory is the chapel, and as the one serves as a passage
to the other, she is perpetually disturbed by the noise of the heavy wooden shoes, which since
the conflagration, the whole family have been obliged to adopt for want of leather. Her wearying
cough is irritated by the constant smoke of the ill-contrived chimney; her oppressed breathing
additionally impeded by the closeness of the overcrowded room; her rest interrupted by the
voices of the pupils, the ringing of the bells, the chanting of the Office, and the various
other sounds inevitable under existing circumstances. Far from murmuring, she will assure us
that she is amused rather than inconvenienced by these unwanted surroundings of a sick room,
and that she considers herself specially favoured in the opportunity which her position affords
of assisting at the holy Mass, joining in the Office, hearing the sermons, and thus in some
manner keeping up to the end the observances of common life.

For her final and more entire purification from the dross of earth, her all-merciful Father
permitted that she should be afflicted with desolation of soul, such as with all her experience
of it, she had never known before. To interior anguish was added the intensity of bodily pain,
yet in her sharpest pangs, even when the surgeon's knife gashed her flesh, piercing to the
bone, no sound betrayed her agonies, save once, a gentle invocation of the name of Jesus: for
this impulse of nature as she considered it, she reproached herself as for a want of patience,
and begged pardon as if it were a cause of disedification. Her sufferings reached their height
in Holy week, and this coincidence she looked on as a particular privilege, thanking our Lord
for thus associating her to His cross. To her visitors, she spoke only of the happiness of
heaven, the riches of religious poverty, and the fidelity with which those who have embraced
it, should cling to it for ever. "Tell all our friends in France," she said to her Sisters,
"that I rejoice in death at having left them for the love of our Lord Jesus Christ, and assure
them that I feel myself infinitely privileged in having been called to this savage land." Our
Lord did not permit His faithful servant to die in utter bereavement of spirit. For the three
days before her end, she enjoyed a foretaste of paradise; her interior pains vanished; her
physical tortures were alleviated. "I know," she said to her director, Father Lalemant, "that
our good God has promised a hundred-fold in this world, and eternal bliss in the next to those
who renounce all things for His love. As to the hundred-fold, I have had it; eternal happiness
I hope through His infinite mercy soon to enjoy." She renewed her vows, asked pardon of the
assistants, and returned thanks to the Rev. Father Ragueneau, Superior of the Missions, for
his charity to their community especially since the conflagration. She also expressed her gratitude
to the physician, for whom she promised to pray in heaven, and most of all to the Mother of
the Incarnation, who had watched and tended her night and day with untiring care and love.
She retained perfect consciousness during her long agony of twenty-four hours, and about eight
o'clock on the evening of the Thursday in Easter week, April the 4th, 1652, her happy soul
returned to the God who all through life had been the only Object of her love. The Mother of
the Incarnation remarks, that the beauty of her countenance after death, appeared to her Sisters
like a reflection of the glory of which she was already in possession; while the heavenly peace
and unction which at the same time filled their own hearts, seemed to say, that over those
remains no tears should be shed, but tears of holy joy and gratitude. The impulse of each was
to invoke her intercession, of which all very quickly experienced the power and efficacy. She
was but thirty- six years of age, yet considering the frailty of her health, the wonder was
that she had been able so long to resist the rigour of the climate and the privations attending
the foundation of the monastery. Her remains were followed by the whole population both French
and Indian, to their temporary resting-place in the garden of the convent, whence twelve years
later they were transferred to the vault in the new church, which by that time was ready to
receive the precious and venerated deposit.

As a mark of their respect and affection, the Hurons residing on the Isle of Orleans had a
solemn service celebrated for her on the morning, of her interment. The tradition of Quebec
speaks touchingly of the gratitude of these poor children of the wilderness towards their dear
Mother St. Joseph, recording that they continually came to inquire for her in her illness,
and brought her presents of every thing delicate which they could procure by the chase. "Here,
Mother," they would say to the Mother of the Incarnation, "give these birds to Mary the holy
virgin, that she may eat, and live to instruct us again."

The Almighty was pleased quickly to reveal the glory of His servant, as many trustworthy witnesses
bore evidence. Among the first of these was a lay Sister at Tours, named Elizabeth, from whom
Mother St Joseph had received maternal care in her childhood. Almost at the hour of her decease,
the Mother appeared to this Sister, bidding her prepare for the great journey to eternity,
on which she would soon be called to enter. Without the loss of a moment, the Sister informed
the Superior that the Mother St. Joseph was dead, and had come to forewarn her of her own approaching
end. In effect, she was summoned away in a few days, and later accounts from Canada fully corroborated
the truth of the Sister's vision.

The Rev. Father Paul Ragueneau, Superior of the Missions at Quebec, testifies that about an
hour after her venerated remains had been laid in the grave, Mother St. Joseph appeared in
vision to a person bound on some errand of charity. Her air, he says, was full of majesty;
her countenance resplendent with glory; rays of light seemed to pass from her eyes to his heart,
as if she would thus have shown her desire to impart a share of her happiness to him. The effect
of the vision was to fill his soul with Divine love and heavenly consolation in such abundance,
that he felt as if without supernatural support, he must have died. On his return from his
journey of charity, the Mother appeared to him again in the same glory as before, and revealed
to him admirable secrets, which the Mother of the Incarnation who records the above fact, has
not seen fit to disclose. Of the veracity of this witness also, there can be no doubt.

The same person having the next day to cross the frozen river, and not knowing that the ice
was too thin to bear his weight, walked on for some distance unconscious of danger. Suddenly
he heard a warning voice bidding him stop; then he looked round only to see himself surrounded
on all sides by water. The slight sheet of ice on which he stood, had no depth or solidity;
it was a mere superficial crust floating on the surface of the terrible abyss. In an agony
of terror, he recommended himself to the care of her who had arrested him on the way to destruction,
then retraced his steps, and on reaching the river bank, perceived that he had actually walked
for a considerable distance on water, as if it had been dry land. His first act was to relate
the wonder to the Mother of the Incarnation, assuring her that he attributed his marvellous
escape to the charity of Mother St. Joseph.

The love which this good Mother while on earth had shown for her neighbour, was assuredly not
diminished in heaven, where charity is made perfect. That it survived the grave, was manifested
in at least one singular instance, which occurred some years after the present date of our
history. Among the captives whom Governor Tracy compelled the Iroquois to set free in 1666,
was a young French girl named Anne Baillargeon, who had been made prisoner at the age of nine.
So naturalized had she become to life in the woods, that when her companions in misfortune
were about to return to their families she refused to accompany them, and lest she should be
constrained to do so, she concealed herself in the forest at the moment of their departure.
Just as she was exulting at the supposed success of her stratagem, a lady wearing the religious
dress suddenly stood before her, and in a tone which admitted of no reply, commanded her to
rejoin the French, threatening her at the same time with punishment if she hesitated. Having
no other alternative, she reluctantly obeyed. When she arrived in Quebec, the Governor confided
her to the care of the Ursulines. The moment she entered the house and saw the portrait of
Mother St. Joseph, she exclaimed, "Ah, there she is! There is the person who spoke to me in
the woods, even the dress is exactly the same." The exclamation convinced the witnesses of
the strange scene that it was indeed Mother St. Joseph who had acted the part of guardian angel
to the truant, and conducted her to the haven of safety.

CHAPTER VIII.

THREATENED INVASION OF THE IROQUOIS.--HEROES OF VILLE MARIE.

In eighteen months after the destruction of the first monastery, the Ursulines were enabled
to re-open schools for the French, and a seminary for the Indians, and so great was the increase
of applicants for admission, especially to the latter, that the Mother of the Incarnation tells
us she was obliged to her great regret to refuse many, who went away with tears in their eyes,
leaving her, as she beautifully expresses it, with tears in her heart. The children who could
not be accommodated in the school, were taught in the parlour, and a little later, bark cabins
were again constructed in the neighbourhood of the old ash tree for the reception of the Huron
girls, eighty of whom at a time might daily be seen receiving not only spiritual instruction,
but also a plentiful meal of the never-failing Indian meal porridge. The seminarists resumed
possession of the now vacant house of Madame de la Peltrie.

The progress of God's work was partially checked about this time by the growing passion of
the Indians for intoxicating drinks, and their increased facility for procuring them. The sad
example of the parents was beginning to react on the children, and when the religious attempted
to remonstrate with such of these as came only for occasional instruction, the refractory young
ones took to flight "It is their nature," the Mother of the Incarnation says, "to be easily
led away by bad example, unless thoroughly confirmed in habits of virtue." The awful calamities
which we shall meet later, led to a much-needed reformation. Among the resident Indian pupils,
happily removed from the contagion of evil example, the labours of the zealous Mothers continued
as ever to produce abundant fruit. Of the large number instructed by the Ursulines, it is true
that only a comparatively small proportion were formed to European habits. "A Frenchman would
more easily become a savage," remarks the Mother of the Incarnation, "than a savage a Frenchman."
None of the Canadian tribes ever advanced beyond a sort of semi-civilization, and almost all
passed away without attaining even this. But they made good Christians none the less--perhaps
all the more--for if life in the woods debarred them from the advantages of civilized society,
it secured them also from the dangers of its corrupting influence.

Among the contrasts which the seminary of this period presented were a widow advanced in years,
and a little child only seven. Genevieve, the widow, was an Algonquin by birth, and though
certainly not a candidate for school, she had so effectually worked on the charity of the Mothers,
that they found it impossible to refuse her request for admittance. Her fervour was most remarkable.
She followed the nuns to every choir observance of the day, spending the time in reciting 
rosary after rosary for various, intentions, among others, the conversion of the Algonquins.
She was never tired of praying, or of listening to instructions on the mysteries of our holy
faith. She was especially delighted with the choir ceremonies, of which she asked minute explanations,
giving it as her opinion that they must be representations of what the angels and saints are
doing in heaven. Her life-long grief was that her children had died without baptism. In the
end, she left Quebec for Three Rivers, where an opportunity offered of doing practical good
among the female converts of her own nation. Her little contemporary went to join the angels,
and pray for her benefactresses in heaven. "Catherine is going to see Jesus and her Mother
Mary," she would smilingly say to her companions when they came to visit her; "she is very
happy, and she will pray for you." And so she was inconceivably happy to die in the house of
Jesus and Mary, and in the arms of Madame de la Peltrie, who watched her with a mother's love,
and charged her with many a message for the angels, those especially of the Mothers and the
Indians. Her sufferings were very great, but her patience was equal to them. After death, she
was attired in white and laid in the church, where the savages came in crowds to pray around
her bier. She was the last pupil to whom the venerated Foundress rendered the final services.

No Bishop had yet been appointed to govern the Church of Canada, ardently as it desired, and
frequently as it had implored the blessing. At last, in 1659, the privilege was granted, to
the universal joy of the colony. The first ruler of the infant Church was Monseigneur de Laval,
who bore at first the title of Vicar Apostolic only. Of him it may, in truth, be said, that
he was a man according to God's own heart, insensible to human respect, indefatigable in labour,
detached from the world, dead to self, poor in spirit, a model of humility, and a consoling
angel of charity. One of his first acts on the day of landing was to stand sponsor for a Huron
infant; another, to administer the last sacred rites to a dying youth of the same nation. This
was a worthy commencement of an episcopate destined to prove so fruitful in works of holiness
and of general utility. The arrival of a vessel infected with fever, soon afforded him ample
opportunity of signalizing his love for his neighbour. Of the two hundred persons whom it contained,
nearly all had been attacked by the malady; eight had died on the passage; many more had been
carried off after landing. The contagion spread through the town, and the hospital was quickly
filled. The good Pastor was at all times to be found in the midst of his suffering people,
ministering not only to their spiritual, but even to their corporal necessities. He who could
trace his pedigree through a line of ancestors of the noble house of Montmorency, deemed it
not a degradation, but an honour, to make the beds of the poor patients in the plague-stricken
hospital at Quebec. No argument could induce him to think of his own safety, for he had learned
from the lessons and the example of his Divine Master, that the good shepherd must be ready
to lay down his life, if needful, for his flock. In his establishment, and in his personal
habits, he was a model of evangelical poverty, but where the rights of the Church and the dignity
of his charge were concerned, he understood perfectly how to maintain both, and his desire
and aim were ever to surround the ceremonial of religion with all the pomp and majesty attainable
in a country only as yet in its infancy.

The late panic had scarcely subsided, when it was succeeded by another yet more terrible. In
the spring of 1660, the inhabitants of the town were one day dispersed through the adjoining
fields, peacefully engaged in agricultural pursuits, when suddenly the thrilling news arrived
that twelve hundred Iroquois had assembled in the neighbourhood of Montreal, with the intention
of utterly annihilating the colony. Their plan, it was said, was to begin with the capital,
as the residence of the Governor, for they argued that the head once destroyed, the members
would soon follow. It would be vain to attempt a description of the universal consternation
occasioned by this intelligence. The first impulse of the trembling people was to try to propitiate
heaven by public prayer; accordingly, the Blessed Sacrament was exposed, and devotions in honour
of the Blessed Virgin were commenced. The Bishop, alarmed for the safety of the Nuns, removed
the two communities from their own homes to lodgings near the Jesuits. The remaining inhabitants
either fortified their dwellings or abandoned them for others more securely located. Meantime
the monastery was placed in a state of siege; redoubts were raised; the windows walled half-way,
and well supplied with loop-holes. Every aperture was carefully closed, and no entrance to
the monastery left open except one narrow door, through which only a single person could pass
at a time. Twenty-four men were placed on guard in the house, and, more formidable to the enemy
than any soldiers, twelve enormous dogs were stationed on the outside. Woe to the Iroquois
who should glide serpent- like through the tall grass, or lie in ambush in the shade of the
brushwood! The sagacious animals would quickly detect his place of concealment, fly at him
in a bound, and tear him to pieces without ceremony, a fact so well known to the hostile savages,
that they feared the dogs of the French more than their warriors or their cannon.

Undismayed by the danger, the Mother of the Incarnation obtained permission to remain in the
monastery with three other Sisters, to prevent disorder and see that the soldiers wanted for
nothing. The first night passed over in safety, but to the inhabitants in general, it was one
of mortal agony. The next morning after Mass, seeing that all was quiet, the Ursulines and
their pupils returned to the convent. In the evening, they again sought their refuge of the
night before, and so things went on for some weeks. It was a time of cruel suspense. Every
sound was transformed by over-heated imagination into a signal of attack; every shadow into
the form of some stealthy Iroquois; every breath of the night breeze into the echo of an enemy's
approaching step. The vast, silent solitudes surrounding the town in every direction, the wild
aspect of the unreclaimed land, the gloomy appearance of the thickly wooded forest seemingly
formed expressly to conceal a foe, all combined to impress the mind with that painful suspicion
of unseen danger, which to many is more torturing than actual peril. Through all the agitation
and alarm, the Mother of the Incarnation retained her accustomed self- possession, and by the
calmness of her demeanour, encouraged the timid and desponding. During the five weeks' general
excitement, she says that she experienced no fear, though she owns that she endured extreme
fatigue. Sleep, either by day or night, was indeed a stranger to Quebec for the whole of that
most trying period. As time passed on, and no enemy appeared, courage began to revive, but
the dream of hope was soon dispelled. Once more the people were startled by the dread announcement,
"The Iroquois are coming! They are close at hand!" While the imminence of the danger froze
the life-blood in many a heart, it seemed, however, only to nerve the arms of the defenders
of the town. In a half-an-hour every man was at his post, prepared to defend it to the last,
and surrender it only with life. Some were even heard to wish in their enthusiasm, that the
alarm might this time prove well founded. Notwithstanding the panic, confidence in God's providence
had not deserted the inhabitants. "Mother," said one of the workmen to the Mother of the Incarnation,
"do not imagine that the Almighty will permit the enemy to surprise us. No; He will hear the
powerful prayers of the Blessed Virgin on our behalf, and send some friendly Huron to put us
on our guard in time. The Mother of God has never refused us this favour, nor will she now."
The very next day proved the accuracy of the prediction. Two Huron prisoners who had miraculously
escaped from the hands of the Iroquois, brought the almost incredible news that the enemy had
precipitately retreated, humbled and confounded at the unexpected resistance which they had
encountered. It was indeed true that the colony was saved, but equally so, that its Safety
had been dearly purchased.

The continual ravages of the Iroquois had hitherto been a standing obstacle to the progress
of the young nation. Wherever they appeared, utter devastation followed, and as no precaution
could prevent, and no foresight anticipate their incursions, life itself was felt by the inhabitants
to hang merely on a thread. At length, sixteen of the colonists headed by an officer named
Daulac, [Footnote: Sometimes written Dolard, and Daulard.] resolved to confront the long dreaded
foe, and conquer or die in the cause of faith and country, The determination was a bold one,
and it was carried out with an unflinching spirit. Before setting out on their expedition,
the Christian warriors approached the sacraments, and in presence of the holy altar promised
never to surrender, and never to desert each other. They took leave of their friends as if
assured of not meeting them on earth again, and having been joined by forty Hurons and six
Algonquins with their respective Chiefs, they intrenched themselves on the first of May behind
a half-ruined palisade at Saut-des-Chaudieres, on the Ottawa river. There for eight days they
resisted an army of seven hundred Iroquois, enduring meantime the aggravating tortures of hunger,
want of sleep, and worst of all, consuming thirst. Through, the loop-holes of their little
fort, they fired with unerring precision at the Iroquois, decimating them rapidly, while sustaining
but trifling loss themselves. Even after the defection of twenty-four of the Hurons who were
lured over to the enemy by deceitful promises, the small garrison still counted thirty-five
undaunted hearts, and but for a sad accident, might have maintained its ground much longer.
When the Iroquois bad advanced sufficiently near the fort to render the attempt practicable,
Daulac determined to attach a fuse to a barrel of gunpowder, and fling it into the midst of
them. Unfortunately the missile caught in a branch, and was thrown back into the fort, exploding
with disastrous consequences to the besieged. The savages taking advantage of the confusion,
forced their way into the fort;--one more desperate struggle,--then all was over. Only four
Frenchmen and four Hurons fell alive into the bands of the Iroquois, who, terrified at a victory
which had cost them so dearly, returned to their villages as fast as possible, not daring to
carry out the projected invasion of a country of heroes such as these. Of the prisoners, some
were put to a cruel death; two of the Hurons escaped as we have noticed, and were the first
to bring to Quebec and Montreal the news of the death of Daulac and his brave companions.

In 1663, on his return from his first voyage to France, Monseigneur de Laval founded the seminary
of Quebec, which he named the Holy Family of the Foreign Missions. Like all great works, the
beginnings of the institution were small, yet it was destined to exercise a vast and salutary
influence over Canada, and at a later day to acquire wide renown as the famed Laval University.

CHAPTER IX.

TRADE IN INTOXICATING DRINKS.--AWFUL VISITATION OF DIVINE ANGER.-- REPENTANCE.--NEW ERA OF
PROSPERITY.--THE MARQUIS OF TRACY VICEROY.

If association with Europeans had been in some respects a blessing to the Indians, it must
be owned that in others it had proved very much the reverse. Among the numerous emigrants to
Canada, were necessarily a large proportion of self-interested fortune seekers, who in order
to secure a lucrative traffic with the natives, availed largely of their well-known propensity
for strong drinks. The severest regulations, and the utmost vigilance of the authorities, though
successful for a time, were powerless to repress the destructive trade permanently. After a
short interruption, it was renewed, now clandestinely, now more openly, but as it seemed irrepressibly.

The savage in a state of intoxication becomes an ungovernable maniac, who in the violence of
his fury will rush into any excess and commit any crime. At the epoch which our history has
now reached, the terrible vice threatened to demoralize the entire country, and to destroy
the fruit of all the efforts made to convert the savages. Writing to her son on the subject,
the Mother of the Incarnation says, "We have at present to contend with an evil far more calamitous
in its results, than even the hostility of the Iroquois. It is unhappily but too true, that
this country now harbours Frenchmen, who for their own selfish ends deliberately risk the spiritual
ruin of the Indians, giving them in exchange for their beaver skins, those intoxicating liquors
which are the absolute destruction of men, women, and even children." "To satisfy this insane
craving for drink," Father Lalemant adds, "the savage will reduce himself to beggary; nay,
will sell his own children. My ink is not dark enough," he continues, "to describe in their
true colours, the calamities thus entailed on this infant church; the gall of the dragon would
be more appropriate for the purpose. Suffice it to say, that in one month, we lose the fruit
of our labours of ten or twenty years."

After every means of persuasion had been exhausted, a sentence of excommunication was at last
pronounced against all who persevered in trading in the prohibited article, but not even the
thunders of the Church could intimidate the hardened transgressors, and so the evil continued
undiminished. Profoundly afflicted at so daring an insult to the Most High, and so fatal an
interruption to the work of grace among the Indians, all the servants of God in Canada united
in earnest prayer for the repentance of the sinful, but from no heart did the petition for
mercy ascend more fervently or more continuously, than from that of the Mother of the Incarnation,
who not content with simply imploring the conversion of the people, offered herself as a victim
for their transgressions, consenting to assume the responsibility of their crimes, and to endure
the punishment which they merited. The prayer of charity was heard, but if the Almighty condescended
to arouse His people to a sense of their iniquity, it was not without a very awful manifestation
of His power.

During the autumn of 1662, such extraordinary signs had from time to time been seen in the
air, that the more thoughtful were impressed with a vague fear of impending calamities, while
even the least serious were not altogether unmoved. These horrors, however, were but faint
foreshadowings of those to come. The evening of Shrove Monday, February the 5th, 1663, was
calm and serene; no eye however keen, no ear however sensitive could have detected sight or
sound indicative of the approaching catastrophe. Forgetful of past warnings, and undisturbed
by present misgivings, the unreflecting crowd plunged into the exciting pleasures of gay carnival.
About half-past five o'clock, the town was alarmed by a distant rumbling, such as might be
produced by the rapid passage of a number of carriages over a stone pavement. This unnatural
sound was followed by another, and a louder, which seemed to combine the crackling of flames,
the rattling of hailstones, the muttering of thunder and the dashing of the waves on the sea
shore. Clouds of thick dust obscured the air; the earth trembled, rose, fell, undulated like
the billows of the ocean, and burst open in innumerable places. The trees of the old forest
swayed back and forwards like reeds in a hurricane, and were uprooted by hundreds. Entire forests
were in some instances swallowed by the yawning abyss, so that only the tops of a few trees
could be seen. Mountains were torn from their beds; rocks were rent, and enormous blocks of
stone rolled into the valleys, crushing all before them. The houses were shaken to the foundation,
and tottered as though they would have fallen; the walls were split asunder, the floors gave
way, the doors opened or closed violently, without being touched. The church bells, set in
motion by the swaying of the belfries, tolled mournfully to the accompaniment of the wild cries
of terrified animals and the shrill screams of equally frightened children. The convulsion
of the water was not less fearful than that of the land. The ice, five or six feet in depth,
burst with a crash like the roar of cannon; huge blocks were shot up into the air, and fell
again to the earth, shivered into powder, while from the openings, clouds of smoke or jets
of mud and sand were projected to a great height. The fish darted in terror from the turbulent
waters, and it was noticed that one species, abandoning its usual haunts, made its way to a
lake where it had never been seen before. The springs were either choked, or impregnated with
sulphur. The waters of some of the rivers became red, others yellow; the St. Lawrence as far
as Tadoussac appeared white.

Stunned by the suddenness of the calamity, and utterly unable to comprehend it, some thought
that a fire had broken out, and ran for help; others that the Indians had made an incursion,
and flew to arms, but soon the momentarily increasing violence of the shocks led to the universal
conclusion that the end of the world had come. The consternation both of French and Indians
can hardly be imagined. The general impulse was to hasten to the churches, and prepare to appear
before the judgment seat of God, and truly wonderful were the conversions which ensued: a missioner
afterwards told the Mother of the Incarnation, that he had himself heard eight hundred general
confessions at that period of panic. After a half- an-hour, the oscillations of the earth became
fainter, without however wholly ceasing, but about eight o'clock there was a second shock so
severe, that the Sisters who were at the time standing in their stalls chanting the Office,
were all thrown to the ground. The earthquake continued at intervals for a full year, the first
five months in its original force, the remainder of the period with less violence. Sometimes
the motion of the earth was like the pitching of a large vessel dragging heavily at its anchors;
at others, it was hurried and irregular, creating sudden, and occasionally very violent jerks,
but in general it was merely tremulous. During all that time, men lived in constant dread of
immediate death, and actually withered away from fear. The Lent was spent by the Sisters in
redoubled austerities, and increasing prayers to appease the anger of God. "Every evening,"
the Mother of the Incarnation wrote to her son, "we disposed ourselves to be engulphed in the
yawning earth before morning, and when a new day dawned, we prepared to stand in God's presence
before its close."

After the fearful convulsion of nature had at last ceased, its terrible traces were but too
distinctly visible over the entire country. In some parts, mountains had disappeared, swallowed
by the gaping earth, or precipitated into adjacent rivers, leaving vast chasms in the places
which they had occupied; in others, new ones had suddenly arisen. Lakes were to be seen in
localities previously occupied by forests. A new island had sprung up in the St. Lawrence;
volcanic craters had burst open; some rivers had been turned from, their course, others totally
lost. A rocky mountainous district of three hundred miles in extent, had been levelled as if
some mighty harrow had passed over it. The earthquake seems to have extended more than six
hundred miles in length, and about three hundred in breadth; thus one hundred and eighty thousand
square miles of land were convulsed at the same moment. A most singular circumstance connected
with the awful visitation is, that not a single individual perished, or was even slightly injured.

At last, Almighty wrath was appeased; salutary fear of the Divine judgments had done its work,
and so the avenging angel was permitted to sheathe his fiery sword. The restored serenity of
nature seemed emblematic of the recovered peace of the people, who, in their reconciliation
with God, and their resolution of amendment, had adopted the most effectual security against
a repetition of the late disasters. Their return to duty seemed the signal of a new era of
benediction.

In 1663, the Marquis of Tracy was nominated Viceroy, and as no arrangement could possibly have
been more advantageous to Canada at that particular crisis, the news of his appointment was
received with an enthusiasm equalled only by that which at a later period greeted his arrival.
He had for many years occupied a very high position in the French army, and had been equally
distinguished through life for courage in danger, and prudence in negotiation. His commission
obliging him in the first place to re-establish the authority of France in Cayenne, which had
leagued with the Dutch, and then, to restore order in the French Antilles, he did not land
at Quebec until the 30th of June, 1665. If he had chosen the season expressly with a view to
first favourable impressions, the selection could not have been more judicious. Nature was
then looking her loveliest. On the old time-honoured rock stood the little capital, in the
first flush of its youth, like clinging childhood beside protecting age. Scattered over the
height were the houses of the French, intermingled with religious edifices of sufficiently
imposing appearance, the whole crowned by the romantically-situated Castle of St. Louis. Here
and there a solitary Indian wigwam nestled among the trees; the glorious river, flashed and
sparkled in the morning light; the grand old woods towered in the background, looking like
links between the past, with its solemn memories, and the present, with its hopes so bright
and fair. With all its variety of picturesque contrasts, Quebec must certainly have presented
a striking scene on that lovely summer's day when the Marquis of Tracy saw it for the first time.

Charmed with the country, and profoundly interested in the inhabitants, he entered on his functions
with an ardour and energy which augured well for his success. His sole ambition from the very
first was to promote the happiness of the people over whom he was called to rule, and whom
he loved with the tenderness of a father. The poorest savages were as much the objects of his
paternal solicitude, as the highest dignitaries among the French. He listened to their harangues
with the kindest interest, and accepted their little presents with the most amiable condescension.
The King had assigned four companies of the regiment of Carignan for his bodyguard, and, to
the colonists unaccustomed to the sight of regular troops, they formed a splendid spectacle.
As to the Indians, they had never even imagined anything so grand.

One of the first objects of the Viceroy was the effectual repression of the audacious Iroquois,
who, though sorely humbled by the glorious feat of the heroes of Ville Marie, continued to
disturb the colony to the utmost extent of their power, and still proved an insuperable obstacle
to its steady progress. The. harvest could not be gathered in safety; life was yet insecure,
and there were times of particular alarm, when the more timid entertained serious notions of
returning permanently to France. There was, however, strong reason to hope that as consternation
had once been created in the ranks of the savages by a mere handful of resolute champions,
they would now be thoroughly and effectually intimidated by a force comprising not only all
the brave spirits of the colony, but also the brilliant guard of the Marquis of Tracy. A resolution
was accordingly taken to proceed from defensive to aggressive measures, and attack the enemy
in the heart of his own territory. The expedition was unavoidably delayed until September,
1666. The pious commander chose the feast of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross for the day of
its departure, and the brave warriors secured the protection of the God of Armies by approaching
the Holy Sacraments. Although advanced in years, the Viceroy would take the personal direction
of his troops in this most perilous and arduous journey of four hundred and fifty miles, carrying
on his shoulders, like the meanest soldier, his arms, provisions, and baggage. The savages
were panic-stricken at the sight of so large an army; the brilliant uniforms, the colours,
the martial music, above all the rolling of the drums, inspired them with such extreme terror
that they fled without striking a blow. Their four large villages at once fell a prey to the
invaders, who reduced them to ashes, in order to compel the owners to sue for peace. The enormous
quantity of Indian meal found in these hamlets would have sufficed to support the colony for
two years if it could have been removed. Besides abundance of provisions, the cabins contained
a variety of articles of furniture scarcely to have been looked for, in the huts of savages.
The next day, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass was offered on the spot in thanksgiving for the
bloodless victory, the ceremonial closing by a solemn, Te Deum. From the departure of the army
until the news of its triumph, the Forty Hours' prayer had been continued without intermission
at the Ursuline monastery, and in private families as well as in the public churches, unceasing
supplications had been offered to God for the success of the French arms. Dreading the annihilation
of their tribe, the Iroquois were only too happy to sue for peace, and willingly gave up several
of their families as hostages. [Footnote: The restoration of Anne Baillargeon, already noticed
in our little sketch of Mother St. Joseph, belongs to this period.] At their own request, three
Jesuits were sent to reside among them, and then each day witnessed some new conversions. Their
famous chief, Garakontie, was baptized and confirmed in the cathedral of Quebec by Monseigneur
Laval, whom he humbly thanked after the ceremony for having opened to him the doors of the
Church and of Paradise. Finding the surroundings of their pagan homes a great obstacle to the
practice of their holy faith, the new Christians determined to establish themselves among the
French, where they could serve God in peace. To meet their wishes, the Jesuits prepared a residence
for them on the rich prairie of the Madeleine, situated on the south bank of the St. Lawrence,
nearly opposite Montreal. The indispensable condition of admission was a solemn promise to
avoid intemperance. This mission of St. Francis Xavier-du-Sault was afterwards celebrated for
the number and fervour of its converts, and became the nucleus of the Iroquois colony, destined
later on to play an important part in the affairs of the Canadian nation.

After having given a decided and permanent impulse to the prosperity of the country, and in
all respects faithfully fulfilled his mission, the Marquis of Tracy was honourably recalled
to France, but he never lost his interest in the welfare of Canada. His departure was regretted
by all parties in the colony, and not least by the Ursulines, to whom he had shown himself
a devoted and efficient friend. "This young church will sustain an indescribable loss in him,"
wrote the Mother of the Incarnation. "Had it nothing else to be grateful for, his example alone
was a priceless blessing. He has been seen to spend six consecutive hours in the church, where
his very appearance was in itself a striking lesson. He is truly a model of piety and virtue,
and so greatly is he beloved that his influence is irresistible." Fortunately for Canada, he
left after him two men thoroughly imbued with his own spirit--Monsieur de Courcelles, the Governor,
and the celebrated Intendant, Talon, under whose joint administration the country made more
progress than since its first colonization. Thus it happened that from. its founder, Champlain,
onwards, Canada had hitherto been greatly blessed in its rulers.

Before we close this chapter, we shall take a glance at Quebec as it was in 1670, three years
after the departure of the Marquis of Tracy, when we shall find it much altered since we saw
it first at the arrival of the Mother of the Incarnation. Its scanty population has swelled
to upwards of four thousand. The scattered huts which constituted the town, have been replaced
by comfortable dwellings. Churches and convents have sprung up. Manufactures of serge and of
hempen cloth have been introduced. A market, a brewery, and a tannery have been opened. The
ground has been considerably cleared, and the agricultural resources of the country have been
developed; three-fourths of the inhabitants can now live on the produce of the land, merely
at the cost of their own labour. Commercial relations have been, established with France and
the West Indian islands. The cod fishery of Newfoundland promises to become a source of immense
revenue. Mines of lead, slate, and coal have been discovered near Montreal. Money, once so
so scarce, has become abundant since the arrival of the Marquis of Tracy and his suite. [Footnote:
It is interesting to renew the glance something about two hundred years later, and note time's
work. The Quebec of today consists of an upper and a lower town. The former, standing on that
side of Cape Diamond which slopes towards the river St. Charles, contains the principal public
buildings, the dwellings of the wealthy, and the best shops; the latter, extending for two
or three miles on a narrow strip of land between the St. Lawrence and the cliffs, is densely
crowded with stores, merchants' offices, warehouses and inns. The communication between the
two is by a winding street and steep flights of steps, at the top of which is a fortified gate.
No scene can be more imposing than Quebec and its surroundings, as it first breaks on a traveller
sailing up the river. Nothing of the city is visible until the spectator has reached a line
between the west coast of the Isle of Orleans and Point Levi, and then all the beauties of
the magnificent scene burst suddenly on his view. The Isle of Orleans is fertile, well cultivated,
and in the centre well wooded. Point Levi is a large, picturesque village, with brightly-painted
cottages, and a romantic little church. From these, the eye turns to the abrupt promontory,
three hundred and fifty feet in height, crested by the city and battlements of Quebec. The
impregnable citadel, the dense mass of buildings, the bright tinned steeples oL the churches
and roofs of the houses, the fleets of ships at the quays, the vessels on the stocks or being
launched, the steamers plying in every direction, the multitude of boats of every shape, the
Indian wigwams at Point Levi, the vast rafts floating down the St. Lawrence with their cargo
of timber from the forests of the Ottawa; farther on, the cataract of Montmorenci tumbling
into the St. Lawrence over a ledge of rock two hundred and twenty feet in height; the houses,
churches and woods of Beauport and Charlesbourg; the high grounds, spire, and homesteads of
St. Joseph; the miles of richly cultivated country, terminating in a ridge of mountains--all
form a picture which once seen can never be forgotten. The vast, grand landscape is, in fact,
one of the most striking in the Old World or the New.--Chiefly from Martin's British Colonies.]
"Merchants will now find this country a high road to fortune," says the Mother of the Incarnation,
from whose letters we have borrowed the above details. "As for us," adds the saintly Mother,
"our fortune is made; we are the portion of Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ is ours; the only
wealth we covet is the possession of Himself, and this we can secure by observing our holy
rule, and faithfully accomplishing His blessed will. Ask His Divine Majesty to give us grace
to do so."

Cheering as was the Venerable Mother's account of Canada, all, however, was not sunshine. At
one time we hear of a fearful storm, attended by immense loss of property; at another, of a
pestilential fever brought to the town by foreign vessels. One winter was so rigorous, that
many of the Sisters made up their minds to be frozen; a later one was, if possible, still more
severe. "During the last thirty-one years," remarks the Mother, "we certainly have had time
to forget the comforts of our old homes in France." She might have added, with perfect truth,
that their generous spirits were as indifferent to the privations of the new home, as they
were detached from the luxuries of the old.

It was in the year of which we write, 1670, that Quebec was elevated to the dignity of a Bishopric.

CHAPTER X.

LINGERING ILLNESS OF THE MOTHER OF THE INCARNATION.--LAST ILLNESS AND DEATH OF MADAME DE LA
PELTRIE.

In 1670, the original little community of three, had multiplied to twenty, but if its numbers
had increased, so had its work. Once more, then, it became necessary to call on France for
help, and once more the appeal was cordially responded to by two Sisters from the convent at
Paris, and two from that of Bourges, who arrived in the spring of the next year. Of the three
first pillars of the edifice, one had disappeared; the two remaining were, alas! soon to follow.
Dom Claude Martin prefaces his notice of the long illness which preceded the death of his saintly
Mother by the remark, that no cross is more holy or more meritorious than that which God Himself
imposes. Crosses of our own choice he says, are, no doubt, agreeable to Him, when borne with
love and patience, but there is danger that self-will may mingle with them and diminish their
value; and again, they are not likely to be always judiciously chosen. But there is nothing
to fear in crosses of Providence; they bear the stamp of the will of God alone; and, as He
never permits His creatures to be tempted beyond their strength, He either sends light trials
suitable to their weakness, or with the, heavier ones, strength in proportion. Sickness being
among the precious crosses of Providence, it was not to be expected that the Mother of the
Incarnation should have been exempted from it, and thus deprived of the opportunity of increasing
her patience and fortifying her other virtues. As far back as 1664, she had received her remote
summons to her eternal home. A complication of violent maladies then brought her apparently
so near death, that she received the last sacraments amidst the sighs and tears of her loving
children. The news of her illness plunged the whole city into mourning; each family felt as
if it were about to lose a mother, and day and night heaven was besieged by one uninterrupted
supplication that she might be spared yet longer. Finding that remedies only aggravated her
excruciating sufferings, the physicians determined at last to leave her in the hands of God,
whose will it seemed to be that the remainder of her life should be passed on the cross. That
life of crucifixion was destined to endure eight weary years, from the first date of her illness,
before the dawn of the eternal day should at last dispel the long night of pain and sorrow.
"I cannot shake off the effects of my severe sickness," she wrote to Her son, "and I still
find them very trying, although nature has now become familiarized with suffering. But I am
happy under my cross, because the cross was the chosen portion of Jesus. Viewed in the light
of God, my trials are so welcome, that my only apprehension, is lest I should constrain our
Lord to chastise my infidelities by removing, or at least, diminishing them. Some say that
it is excess of work which has undermined my health, but I maintain with more truth, that my
illness is a precious pledge of the love of my God, for which I heartily thank Him." She was
perfectly indifferent as to the result of her malady, desiring, as she said, neither life nor
death, but only the God of life and death. During six of these years of lingering malady, she
bore the weight of authority for the third time, her Director, who understood the blessing
of her government to the community, having opposed her request for permission to resign it.
That she could even exist in the state of exhaustion and emaciation to which she was reduced,
seemed a miracle, yet she fulfilled all the duties of each day most punctually; she allowed
herself no additional rest, rising as usual summer and winter at four o'clock; she assisted
at all the observances, applied unremittingly to the functions of her charge; wrote an amazing
number of letters, and when fatigue or weakness incapacitated her from more laborious business,
she occupied her leisure in painting or embroidery, for both of which she had an exquisite
taste. The fruit of her beautiful work in this way went to adorn altars and churches. Burning
with zeal for the salvation of the Indians, and wishing in a manner to prolong her apostolate
among them after death, she devoted herself untiringly to the preparation of the younger Sisters
destined to succeed her in the charge of instructing them. In the winter mornings, she assembled
them round her to teach them the Indian dialects, and knowing from experience the difficulty
of committing the vocabularies to memory, she determined to leave them as much help from manuscripts
as possible. Accordingly, between the commencement of the Lent of 1668, and the feast of the
following Ascension, she accomplished the writing of a large volume of sacred history in Algonquin,
and a dictionary and catechism in Iroquois. The preceding year she had written a voluminous
Algonquin dictionary.

Four or five years before her end, she wrote to her son, "When you receive the news of my demise,
I beg you to get as many Masses as possible said for me by the Reverend Fathers of your holy
Congregation. To all appearance, I have not, it is true, any immediate prospect of death, but
at my age, the end cannot be far off. My infirmities, too, are a perpetual warning to keep
myself ever prepared to render an account of my life, especially of the misuse of great graces,
for which I shall suffer long in the fire of Purgatory, unless powerfully succoured by the
suffrages of the Church. I am very fortunate in being able to calculate on your help and that
of your good Fathers, hoping that through your united sacrifices I shall the sooner behold
Him whom my heart and soul long to bless and praise for ever. Oh! how happy shall we be when
this has become our sole employment! It is now forty years since by an immense favour God called
me to praise Him on earth, as the angels and saints praise Him in heaven. This favour has been
the source of great and magnificent graces to my soul, but there can be no doubt that, owing
to my imperfections and distractions, something of my own spirit has mingled with those Divine
praises, hence I continually say, "Who can understand sin? From my secret sins, cleanse me,
O Lord" (Ps. xviii 13). I have not only numerous external defects, but a vast number besides
of hidden and internal, for all of which I shall be rigorously punished, unless you obtain
my pardon through the Holy Sacrifice. The purity which God requires of a soul elevated to a
close and constant union with his Adorable Majesty, is infinitely precious, and it is the high
standard at which I estimate it, which renders me fearful, but underlying the fear is a peace
profound beyond words to describe. Pray that this peace may be solid, because in the spiritual
life, there is much false peace. I have boundless confidence in the adorable Blood of our Divine
Saviour, bequeathed by Him as a rich and permanent legacy to His Church."

But after all, the Mother of the Incarnation was not to be the next of the three foundation-stones
removed to the Heavenly Jerusalem. In the designs of God, Madame de la Peltrie was to precede
her; the interval between both deaths, however, was to be very short, so that the hearts united
in life, should not be long divided after its close. Five months only before the Mother of
the Incarnation, the gentle, pious Foundress was called away, after a violent and short attack
of pleurisy. The main points of her history, both before and after her vocation to the foreign
mission, are already known to us; the hidden virtues of her obscure life in Canada are less
easily discerned. Humility and zeal for God's glory seem to have been the characteristics of
her sanctity. The meanest offices were those for which alone she felt herself qualified, and
which, therefore, she was not only ever ready to embrace, but to plead for. During eighteen
years, she had charge of the general clothing, and the only drawback to her enjoyment of the
duty was that the articles she could provide were not as good as she would have wished. For
herself were reserved the old patched garments too bad for anyone else. The last place in the
choir and refectory was the one which she selected. She could not bear to be addressed as the
Foundress, saying that she was a worthless creature who did nothing but offend God. Never was
she heard to speak of herself, except to depreciate her own merit. She followed the common
rule with regard to food and rising, except, indeed, that she often anticipated the hour of
the latter, early as it was. Although she had received the gift of uninterrupted prayer, and
could speak admirably to seculars who applied to her for advice, among the religious she never
touched on spiritual subjects, fearing to appear better than she believed herself to be. Frail
and weakly as her health was, she practised austerities which would have tried persons of robust
constitution, redoubling them whenever she heard that some particular soul was in unusual danger,
and therefore required unusual help. Honouring our Lord in the indigent, she was never so pleased
as when she could clothe and console the poor. Of her love for the Indian pupils, we have more
than once had occasion to speak, but it would be difficult to do it justice. She seemed to
feel that she never could do enough not only to serve, but even to please and gratify her dear
children. It was her delight to see herself surrounded by them, to receive and return their
caresses, to head their processions, lead them on pious pilgrimages, and even give them little
excursions for amusement. The means of carrying out her projects of charity often failed, but
the charity never, so it was often said that if her pecuniary resources were only as large
as her heart, all the Indian children, and their parents too, would be well provided for. Inseparably
united in heart to Jesus in His most adorable Sacrament, she found her sweetest earthly happiness
in Holy Communion, and made it her practice to procure as many Masses as possible for the convent,
assisting at them all with the respect and fervour of an angel. Her great devotion to the Blessed
Sacrament inspired her with a desire to build a church adjoining the monastery, in which she
happily succeeded. The foundation- stone was laid in 1656, and two years and a half later the
sacred edifice was completed.

Her death sickness lasted but seven days, yet short as was the interval, it sufficed to exhibit
her virtues in all their lustre. In death, even more if possible than in life, she showed herself
humble, affable, patient, obedient, mortified, united to God, and resigned to His holy will.
In death too, she clung with all her old love to the evangelical poverty which had long had
irresistible charms for her, for the sake of Him who became poor, that we might be enriched.
Seeing near her bed a few delicacies which the hand of affection had provided, she had them
immediately removed, saying that dainties were inconsistent with poverty. It would indeed have
been difficult to detect anything incompatible with poverty in the humble room, where lay expiring
the once envied heiress of large possessions. A poor bed, two straw chairs and a wooden table
constituted all the furniture; a picture of the Crucifixion, the only ornament. When asked
if she regretted life, she answered that the day of her death was more precious to her than
all the years of her existence united. The day which proved her last, happened to be Wednesday,
a coincidence which filled her heart with joy. "Oh! how happy I should be," she said, "if God
called me on this day, dedicated to St. Joseph!" Every hour seemed to her like a year, so vehement
was her desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ. She continually asked how soon she might
expect the blissful moment which would unite her to her Sovereign Good for ever, and she begged
the loving Sisters who surrounded her bed, constantly to whisper to her the words of the Psalmist,
"I rejoiced at the things that were said to me: we shall go into the house of the Lord." (Ps.
cxxi.1.) She gently expired at eight o'clock on the evening of November the 12th, 1671, aged
sixty-eight years, thirty-two of which she had passed in Canada. Her interment was attended
by all persons of position in the city and its environs. Considering herself unworthy to inhabit
the monastery which she had founded, she had begged as an alms a last resting-place in the
vault destined for the religious. Contrary to her intentions, her remains were inclosed in
a leaden coffin. By her own directions, her heart was buried under the altar step of the Jesuits'
Church, that it might crumble into its original dust at the feet of the God of the Tabernacle,
a holocaust of His love.

CHAPTER XI

LAST ILLNESS AND HAPPY DEATH OF THE VENERABLE MOTHER MARY OF THE INCARNATION.

In the middle of the January following the death of the venerated Foundress, the Mother of
the Incarnation relapsed into violent illness. Her previous symptoms re-appeared, with the
addition of indescribably painful tumors in both sides. Unable to rest in any position, consumed
with fever, tortured in every nerve, not a sigh, or moan, or movement betrayed her agonies,
and yet, at that moment, the hand of God pressed heavily on her soul as well as on her body.
That she might resemble Him to the end, her crucified Lord presented her once more with the
bitter cup of interior dereliction which she had so often before shared with Him, again despoiling
the inferior part of the soul of those heavenly consolations which would so greatly have lightened
the pressure of physical suffering. "It is hard," the "Imitation of Christ" says, "to want
all comfort, human and Divine," but the Venerable Mother was well familiarized with the privation,
of both. In the purity of her love, she sought only the accomplishment of the will of her God.
"With Christ I am nailed to the cross," she said in a holy transport, and none understood better
than she, that it is good to be with Christ even on the cross. The physicians having declared
the malady hopeless on the fifth day; she received the last sacraments, made her profession
of faith, and then asked pardon, first of the Father Superior and of her director, then of
the Mother Superior and community, thanking them for their charity and expressing her regret
at the trouble which her long illness had occasioned them. Hearing shortly after, that the
grand-daughter of an Algonquin Chief had just joined the seminary, she expressed a wish to
see the child, and after affectionately caressing her, she once more impressively exhorted
her dear Sisters ever cordially to cherish her "joys," as she called the Indians. All the pupils,
both French and savage, were repeatedly brought to receive her blessing.

Overwhelmed with the deepest grief, the religious redoubled their prayers and mortifications,
beseeching that their precious Mother might be left to them even a little longer. She could
not understand their desire to prolong a life which she deemed useless, but her director, Father
Lalemant, comprehending her value to the community far better than she did herself, and compassionating
the affliction of her children, commanded her to join in their prayers for her restoration.
The order startled her, but at once raising her eyes and hands to heaven, she said, "I think
I shall die of this illness, however if God wills that I should live longer, I am resigned."
"That is all well, Mother," replied the inexorable Father, "but it is not enough; you must
take our side of the question, and do your best to preserve yourself to the community, which
still has need of you." The direction was too explicit to admit of appeal; preferring obedience
to sacrifice, as had even been her practice, she said, almost in the words of her own St. Martin
of Tours, "My Lord and my God! if Thou seest that I am still necessary to this little community,
I refuse not pain or labour: may Thy will be done!" A change for the better was at once apparent,
and so wonderfully rapid was the improvement, that at his next visit, the physician who had
pronounced her recovery hopeless, declared her out of danger. She assisted at the solemn Te
Deum which was offered in the choir in thanksgiving for her restoration, and with her usual
sweet affability received the congratulations of her now happy daughters, as well as of her
numerous friends Presents of the most delicate food were sent from every quarter to tempt her
appetite; she tried to partake of it through condescension, but since the commencement of her
illness eight years before, her palate had retained a bitterness which imparted the flavour
of gall to every species of nourishment, and necessarily created a loathing for it.

Her convalescence continued during the Lent; she was able to join in the ceremonies of Palm
Sunday, and on Good Friday, to assist at the Passion and the Adoration of the Cross, but that
evening, she felt compelled to tell the Mother Superior that she was suffering excessively
from the tumors in both sides. They proved to be abscesses, which on the next day had to be
laid open to the bone. She bore this, and subsequent torturing operations as if she had been
deprived of all sense of feeling. Once she slightly shuddered, and then she accused herself
of impatience, and asked forgiveness. The humility, meekness, and charity always so striking
in her seemed to have gained an increase under this new test, but it was because she had laid
up an abundant store of them in the days of her strength, that they did not fail in the hour
of nature's weakness, when, above all, is proved the truth of the maxim, that it is the moment
of trial which shows what we really are. When, long years before, she had offered herself to
God as His Victim, it was with the full comprehension that the title implied a life of suffering
and sacrifice; now that the hour of immolation had come, she renewed the oblation, content
to bear her excruciating pains to the day of judgment, if only God could be thus honoured,
and the salvation of souls promoted. Some of the Sisters having asked her to share her merits
with them, she replied with a smile, "All belongs to the savages; I have no longer anything
of my own." The holy Communion, which she received every alternate day, continued to be her
support in death, as it had been in life. By the end of the week, it was apparent that her
strength was declining, and her life fast passing away. When informed that all chance of recovery
was at an end, her countenance beamed with celestial joy, and from that moment until her last,
her existence was one almost uninterrupted ecstasy. Although constantly absorbed in God, she
replied sweetly and amiably to all who spoke to her, but at the same time in as few words as
possible. The Mother St. Athanasius, who never left her, asked if she had any commission for
her son. She seemed affected at the question, and begged the Mother to let him know that she
would bear him to heaven in her heart and pray for his perfect sanctification. On the morning
of the 30th of April, feeling that the last hour was near, she wished to bid a final adieu
to her dear little Indians. She blessed them with all the love of her great heart, and then
spoke a few impressive words to them in their own language on the beauty of our holy mysteries
and the happiness of serving God. At mid-day, she entered into her agony, if that could be
called an agony, where there was no struggle. Although she lost her speech and hearing, it
was easy to see that her soul was intimately united to God. Her trembling hand still tried
to lift the crucifix to her lips, and when her confessor would have rendered her this service,
he found it so impossible to disengage the beloved image from her grasp, that he had to substitute
another. A few minutes before six in the evening, she opened her eyes and looked at her dear
Sisters, as if to take a last farewell of them, then closed them for ever to earth. At six
o'clock, two faint sighs were heard,--so faint, that but for the breathless stillness of the
room they must have been inaudible, but the hearing of affection is acute, and every heart
present caught the feeble echo, and interpreted it correctly. Death had come at last, but death
in a form so fair, that even angels might have envied it, if angels could die. In its flight
to God, her pure soul seemed to have left a lingering ray of glory flitting round the calm,
still features, which shone as if illumined with heaven's own light, and almost dazzled the
beholders by their seraphic beauty. All the Sisters witnessed and attested the prodigy; tradition
has faithfully handed it down even to our own day, and still, as each revolving year brings
round the 30th of April, a solemn Te Deum resounds through the Ursuline Church at Quebec, as
a thanksgiving to God for the exceptional privileges attending the blessed death of the Mother
Mary of the Incarnation.

To say that grief for her loss was universal, would be more than superfluous. Throughout the
country, she had for many a year been known, consulted, prized, revered, beloved: now that
the Mother was taken from amidst her children, no wonder that the children were lonely and
that they mourned their desolation. It would be impossible to describe the feelings of the
savages; as soon as the news of her death reached Sillery and Loretto, they came crowding round
the monastery to pray for her whom they had loved so well and with so much reason. "Our Mother
is dead !" It was all they said, and all they had to say. Sorrow like theirs was too deep for
words, and to show that they felt it so, they followed up the pathetic exclamation by a gesture
indicating that they would speak no more. The Sisters, overcome by their child-like grief,
tried to administer to them the comfort of which they were themselves so much in need, and
then both went their respective ways to await in prayers and tears the sad, solemn hour which
was to hide from them for ever, the object of their reverence and love.

From early dawn on the day of the interment, the convent church was filled to overflowing with
a reverential crowd, all eager to pay the last honours to the venerated servant of God. Bishop
Laval being then in France, the obsequies were performed by Monsieur de Bernieres, Vicar- General
of the diocese, Father Superior of the monastery, and nephew to the kind friend of the same
name who had so efficiently promoted the success of the Ursuline foundation at Quebec. The
funeral oration was preached by Father Lalemant, who better than any one else could do justice
to his subject, and then the cherished and revered Mother of Canada was laid to her rest, in
the vault destined as the place of sepulture of the community.

Unwilling to lose all trace of her dear familiar features, the authorities both civil and religious
joined in requesting that while there was yet time, her likeness might be secured. Accordingly,
the day after the interment the coffin was uncovered, and an artist sent by the Governor succeeded
in taking a remarkably correct one. This portrait was unfortunately consumed in the second
conflagration of the monastery in 1686. That which now hangs in the community room of the Ursuline
convent, Quebec, was sent from France.

The Mother of the Incarnation was tall, and the dignity of her deportment was so striking,
that while she was in the world, persons were often seen to stand and look at her as she proceeded
unconsciously through the streets on her missions of devotion or charity. The gravity of her
demeanour was tempered by the modesty of her address, and the courteous affability of her manner.
Her features were regular, but their chief attraction lay in their expression, which seemed
like a revelation of the invisible beauty of her soul. The irresistible sweetness of her glance
appeared to leave a trace of heaven wherever it fell, and although her habitual interior union
with God communicated something of an unearthly air to her exterior, no one ever felt restrained
or ill at ease in her company. Her constitution was strong, and thereby fitted for the life
of unceasing labour to which God called her. She possessed mental qualities of a high order,
had great natural abilities, and was what the world would call a clever woman of business,
but best of all, she was a saint. From the hour, when at seven years of age she consecrated
her young soul to God, until that when at seventy-two, she surrendered it into His hands, her
one sole aim had been to adorn it with every virtue, so that it might become ever more and
more pleasing in the eyes of His Divine Majesty, and so well did she succeed in this her holy
object, that the history of her life, is in fact the history of her virtues; in studying the
one, we have at the same time been making acquaintance with the other. Much however as we have
learned of those resplendent virtues, we fain would pause a moment longer on them before relinquishing
her sweet company, just as we love to linger over a beautiful sunset, and even after the great
orb has disappeared, still to watch the traces of his departing glory resting on the golden clouds.

As the virtues of the Mother of the Incarnation have passed in review before us in the course
of her history, the same thought may perhaps have occurred to us, as to her son, Dom Claude
Martin, that where all were so admirable, it would be difficult to say which was the most worthy
of special notice. She was raised up, we know, to glorify God both in her own person and in
that of her neighbour; in her own, by her individual sanctification,--in that of her neighbour
by leading many souls to heaven. For the fulfilment of this two-fold destiny, it is evident
that she had need of a deep ground-work of humility, with a vast fund of charity and self-abnegation;
accordingly we find her possessed of these virtues in such perfection, that remarkable as she
was for every other, we may perhaps consider her greatest of all in these. In the exalted degree
of union with Himself by which the Almighty recompensed her generosity, we adore His own immense,
gratuitous liberality;--in the heroism with which, aided by Divine grace, she died to every
human feeling, we admire the grandeur of her own utter detachment from self, and the beauty
of her thoroughly spiritualized nature.

Her humility, she had early established on the fundamental principles, that God is all, and
the creature nothing. From these two truths, as from two great fountain heads, came the one
absorbing desire of her life, that the All should engulph the nothing; that God should be exalted
and she herself annihilated; hence, there was no height to which she would not have soared
to promote honour to God, and no depth to which she would not have descended to procure her
own abasement. The generosity of her humility inspired her equally to undertake great things
for her Divine Master, when His service required them, and to remain contentedly in inaction
when this was more agreeable to Him. Far from attaching any importance to the benefits which
she had conferred on the monastery, she looked on herself as useless, sincerely believing that
she was tolerated in the house of God only through charity. "I know nothing," she wrote; "I
do nothing in comparison with my Sisters; although I teach others, I am the most ignorant of
all." That these were no mere empty words was proved by her insatiable thirst for humiliation,
to which her humble soul was drawn by the consideration of God's greatness and her own nothingness,
as a stone to its centre by its natural weight. In reading of the success which crowned her
labours, and the universal love and reverence which her great qualities inspired, we are tempted
to imagine, that whatever may have been her interior crosses, she must at least have been a
stranger to the mortifications which come to us from others. But it was not so. She loved humiliation
in her heart of hearts, as the appropriate homage of the nothing to the All, and God loved
her too much to spare it, therefore all through life, in youth as in mature age, in Canada
as in France, in religion as in the world, it followed her like a shadow. "I am destined for
the cross," she wrote to one of the Mothers at Tours; "trials are my lot, and in them is my
peace; help me to return thanks to Him who provides for me so generously." She was contradicted
and slighted; she was suspected, misjudged and misrepresented, sometimes to test her virtue,
sometimes from more questionable motives, but the possibility that she could he wronged or
unjustly depreciated, never for a moment seemed to occur to her. Considering herself the last,
the lowest, the most sinful of God's creatures, she confessed that any amount of humiliation
was inadequate to her deserts, while at the same time firmly impressed that the unfavourable
opinions expressed of her were the correct ones, she was incapable of resentment. The Sisters
who knew how discourteously she was often treated, once asked her how she bad been able to
restrain her irritation under some particular insult; "I have guarded against that," she replied,
"by forgetting all about it." "You admired our Mother's humility under her last annoyance,"
one Sister remarked to another; "yet this was a trivial one compared with those to which she
is accustomed; still nobody ever hears her speak of them." Nevertheless she owned that the
persecutions which she endured thus silently, were more trying than even her terrible temptations,
for that while the one caused her only personal suffering, the other checked the work of God.
Her imperturbable equanimity under humiliations sometimes led to a doubt of her having noticed
them at all; she had, and that very clearly too, but because she loved the contempt which she
believed her due, she received each new evidence of it with an interior joy, and an exterior
calmness, which deceived superficial observers. While incapable of taking offence herself,
if she thought that she had inadvertently given even apparent cause of it to others, she never
hesitated to ask pardon in the most humble manner even of the youngest Sister. No trace of
self-reliance or self-esteem was ever seen in her. She was always ready to receive the suggestions
and profit of the opinions even of those far inferior to her in every respect. It is recorded
that when, consummated in virtue and experience, she was nearing the end of life, a novice
who was at work with her, took the liberty of remarking that she was doing hers wrong. "Show
me, my child, how it should be done," the humble Mother gently answered, and while the novice
had the simplicity to teach her mistress, the mistress had the humility to take the directions,
although she knew them to be incorrect, saying that it matters little whether a piece of work
be done in one way or in another, but very much that we practise child-like humility, so as
to deserve a place among the little ones of whom our Lord declared is the kingdom of heaven.
Sinking ever lower and deeper into her nothingness, she found there a resting-place for her
soul, a security against illusion, a safeguard for her virtue, and an antidote for self-complacent
thoughts, if by a rare chance, imagination ever suggested one.

The extraordinary graces with which God favoured her, far from exalting, served only to lower
her in her own estimation. She fully recognised the magnificence of those graces, but wholly
separating the great Giver from the lowly recipient, she viewed them in Him, not in herself;
they were His always, hers never, and provided they redounded to His glory, she asked no more.
"I am overwhelmed with astonishment," she writes, "that a God who is loved purely by myriads
of millions of souls, should cast His eyes on me, the last of His creatures, and condescend
to grant me a share in His love." And again, "If a soul is beautiful, good, or holy, it is
with the beauty, the goodness and the holiness of God. Knowing that these attributes belong
wholly to Him, she desires that He alone should have the honour of them, wishing no honour
or praise for herself from any creature. Her only fear is lest vain complacency should open
the door of the inner temple to the enemy, who would soon despoil her of her gifts." "Tremble
for me," she said to her son, "when you hear of the favours which the Almighty has conferred
on me, for He has placed His treasures in the very frailest of earthen vessels: the vessel
may at any moment be broken and the contents lost." This humble distrust of human weakness
never left her heart. "O my great God!" she would say, "grant me humility, and help me to serve
Thee as Thou commandest, in fear and trembling." "I am now near my end," she wrote two years
before her death, "and I have yet done nothing worthy of a soul soon to appear before God.
Our Lord has ever led me by the spirit of love and confidence, never by that of fear, but when
I consider that through the frailty of my fallen nature, I may at any moment lose the Divine
friendship, I am seized with dread, and overwhelmed with humiliation. I could not exist if
I retained this apprehension of separation from God,--that all-good God from whom I have received
more graces and favours than there are grains of sand in the ocean bed. But my firm confidence
in His mercy dispels alarm, and rejecting doubts and fears, I cast myself trustingly into His
arms, there to repose in peace." Her superior intelligence and eminent virtue would have rendered
her a very desirable acquisition to the Jansenists, who used their best efforts to allure her
to their ranks, but her humility was her safeguard, and to manifest her horror of their innovations,
she would not even reply to their letters.

Flowing from her humility was her spirit of obedience, a virtue of which she so clearly recognised
the imperative necessity for all who aim at perfection, that she would do nothing but under
its guidance. Even the revelations with which God had favoured her, she never thought of acting
on, until she had submitted them to the examination of her director, and so persuaded was she
that this course was in accordance with the established order of Providence, that she would
have thought herself deluded had she acted otherwise. She was perfectly free from the least
attachment to her own lights, natural and supernatural, and never had a difficulty in subjecting
her conduct and judgment to the guidance of superiors; this she esteemed a most special grace.
It may be remembered that in the years of her servitude in her brother-in-law's house, she
made a vow of obedience to him and her sister. Knowing nothing of it, they were lost in astonishment
at her wonderful submission, which they could only attribute to her affection for themselves,
and consequent zeal for their interests. After she entered religion, obedience was still among
her favourite virtues; she almost flew to execute the most trivial order of superiors, or rather
she recognised none as trivial, viewing all as emanating from God. In the position of Superior
which she held for eighteen years, she still found means of exercising her beloved virtue,
and when in the intervals, she resumed her place among the Sisters, her submission to the new
Superior was that of a simple child. Obedience had become so natural to her from habit, that
she was a stranger even to a repugnance to obey. She strongly inculcated the importance of
obedience to spiritual direction, saying that it is the source of that true simplicity which
forms the saints.

A soul so humble could not but be meek, and so it was notorious, that although while she was
engaged in the world her business had been of a most harassing kind, and that in Canada her
varied duties brought her into continual contact with persons of all classes and all humours,
she was never seen out of patience. Even when most severely pressed at the time of her great
interior trials by temptations to antipathy and irritability, the closest observer could scarcely
ever have detected that vanquished nature had made an effort to rebel. If perchance an almost
imperceptible reflection of her pains of soul ever passed over her accustomed sweetness of
demeanour, she reproached herself for it as for a fault. After her death, when her virtues
formed the favourite topic of conversation in her bereaved community, one who had known her
for thirty years, observed that "the Mother of the Incarnation always showed the courage of
the lion in confronting difficulties and dangers, and the gentleness of the lamb in her intercourse
with her neighbour." And this latter remark applied not only to the meekness which is easily
maintained because it is not tried, but much more to that which bears the test of sharp and
continuous contradictions, and is never found to fail. A person who had occasioned her very
great annoyance, finally pronounced as his conclusive opinion, that her patience was made of
iron. She was, indeed, so thoroughly inured to mortifications, that injuries had ceased to
be injuries, and enemies were enemies no more. Those who had treated her worst, might, for
that reason, count securely on special evidences of her sweetness and kindness. For the sake
of peace, she was ever ready to yield her judgment, when this could be doue without compromise
of duty.

It once happened that in an important matter submitted to the decision of the community, she
held a different opinion from most of the Sisters. Finding herself in the minority, she at
once yielded the point without a remonstrance or even a remark. A Sister who took her view
of the case, a little disappointed at such ready acquiescence, observed, "Well, Mother, one
would thank that you had made a vow to obey those people, and do just as they wish." "No,"
replied the Mother, with her own gentle smile, "I have not vowed to obey them or consult their
wishes, but I have promised to please God, and for His love to do all in my power to maintain
peace with my neighbour." Perfect, however, as was the meekness of the Venerable Mother, her
firmness could equal it when occasion required, and never, perhaps, were the two qualities
more admirably balanced in any character than in hers.

Compassion for all in want or trouble seemed like an instinct of her nature. It showed itself,
as we have seen, from her earliest childhood, and gained strength with every breath of her
life. To see her fellow- creatures in distress, and not make an effort to relieve them, was
at all times an impossibility to her kind heart. Known in the world as the mother and advocate
of the poor, in religion she maintained, and, if possible, strengthened her claim to the beautiful
title. She would have considered that a lost day on which she had not exercised the works of
mercy, so during her prolonged tenure of authority as Superior, it was remarked that she never
passed one without giving alms of one kind or another. Among the distressed French families
whom she thus relieved were persons of respectable condition, who she knew would have shrunk
from manifesting their poverty, therefore she took care to spare them the necessity of an appeal
for charity, managing also to have her gifts conveyed so cautiously, that they should be unable
to trace them to their source, or to consider them in the light of alms. When nothing more
remained to her for the destitute, she called on the resources of the rich, and when these,
too, were exhausted, she had recourse to God, who never failed to send her help in her emergencies.

If she was the refuge of the French in their wants, still more was she the resource of the
Indians, to whom her generous heart and her hospitable monastery were ever open. Vain would
be the attempt to tell of all she did and all she endured to procure means of providing for
them in their necessities, and helping them through their difficulties. But if their temporal
welfare was a subject of deepest concern to her, infinitely more lively was her zeal for their
spiritual interests; to these she had devoted her labours; to these she had consecrated her
energies and her life; for these were her first, her last, her ceaseless prayers. So well did
she succeed in communicating her own ardour to the rest of the community, that from the very
commencement of the house the Sisters bound themselves to receive the Holy Communion and recite
the Rosary once every month in honour of the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary,
observing a fast on the eve of the festival, all in order to obtain the conversion of the savages.
This beautiful devotion is perpetuated in the monastery to the present day.

Another practice of the first Mothers was to draw by lot the names of the different Indian
tribes, each offering her prayers, labours, and merits for the conversion of that which had
fallen to her. The Venerable Mother had her particular nation like the rest, but her great
heart embraced all others at the same time, for nothing less than all could satisfy zeal which,
like hers, embraced the universe. As her history has shown us, her whole life in Canada was
but one prolonged act of charity to the forlorn race, and when that life was about to close,
she bequeathed her love for them to her community, as the most precious legacy she had to bestow.

As well-ordered charity begins at home, her Sisters were naturally the first objects of hers.
From the commencement of her religious career, her delight had been to oblige and serve them
at the cost of any amount of personal fatigue or inconvenience, and, when Superior, it was
her practice to do a considerable portion of their work in addition to her own, thus to procure
them a little more rest. That all might be enabled to retire sooner after their weary day,
she took for her especial charge to remain up the last at night, and see all the fires extinguished--no
easy task when wood was the only fuel, the huge, red-hot logs requiring much time and caution
in the cooling. She has been known to leave herself without bed-clothes in the intense cold
of winter nights, that she might add a little to the comfort of her shivering novices, her
own chilled frame meantime depending for warmth, as Pere Charlevoix remarks, "only on the fire
of her love;" and this was but one small instance of the compassionate charity which she was
ever practising.

She had peculiar tact in reconciling enemies, and a wondrous gift for consoling the afflicted,
especially those tried by temptations and interior pains. Many were the sufferers who came
to her sorrowful and discouraged, and left her presence consoled and strengthened. Once a person
under great trial sought her help, but experienced insuperable difficulty in communicating
the subject of her pains. "Let us pray, my child," the Mother said, "that God may enlighten
me." Leaning her head on her hand, she prayed for the space of a Pater and Ave; then looking
up gently, she asked, "What hesitation could you have had in telling me such and such a thing?"--specifying
the causes of trouble. "Should you not have known me better?" Having directed the person what
course to pursue, and exhorted her to courage, fidelity, and abandonment to God, she foretold
her that her troubles were not at an end, but consoled her by the assurance that they would
tend to the Divine honour. The wise counsels not only imparted immediate peace to the suffering
soul, but, moreover, helped to sustain her through the remainder of the conflict, which, as
the event proved, was not yet over. The good Mother was ever at the command of all who sought
her help, ready at all times to lay aside her most pressing occupations the moment any one
expressed a desire to speak to her, giving her visitors ample opportunity of unburdening their
minds fully, and dismissing all satisfied and consoled. She could not endure to hear an unkind
remark, and so perfect was her own practice of charity in speech, that she was never known
to utter a word to the disadvantage of any one, even those who had treated her worst. Such
was the tenderness of her compassion for the erring, that, as she was accustomed to say, she
would have wished to hide them in her heart.

She was so easily pleased, that the charge of assisting her in her different occupations, was
quite an envied post. A Sister, who for several years had had the care of preparing her colors
for her paintings, and her materials for gilding and similar works, declared that during all
that time she had never heard a word from her lips but of encouragement, gentleness, and affection.
The kind Mother took delight in teaching her what she knew, and then, with the liveliest interest,
would show the Sister's attempts to all who entered, remarking how good they were, and how
sure the pupil would be to advance if she only had courage. "How can you praise such work,
dear Mother?" somebody one day asked in reference to another's Sister's production; "you who
are so good a judge, and, therefore, must have seen its defects." "It was done to the best
of the Sister's ability," the Mother answered, "so it was well done for her, and in that sense
deserving of praise." Although always recollected in God, she liked to see her Sisters gay
at recreation, and that she might be no restraint on their innocent mirth, was herself invariably
cheerful. The instances on record of her charity to her neighbour, both before and after she
entered religion, are much too numerous for insertion in these pages, but we cannot have perused
her history, without discerning that the beautiful spirit of fraternal love influenced her
whole life, manifesting itself in a ceaseless effort to relieve the wants, console the sorrows,
promote the temporal happiness, and, above all, advance the spiritual interests of all within
her reach, as well as by her prayers and desires, of those beyond it.

Charity and patience like those of the Mother Mary of the Incarnation can flourish only in
souls whence inordinate self-love has been banished; detachment from self is, in fact, their
essence and their life. It was because that of the Venerable Mother was so deeply grounded,
that her love of her neighbour was proof against all trials. Disengagement from self is synonymous
with sacrifice of self, and of this she was unsparing. For her greater merit, and our instruction
and encouragement, the Almighty permitted that during several successive years she should feel
the revolt of her passions, and experience all that is painful to nature in the effort to subdue
them. The perfect control over them which resulted in her admirable meekness and forbearance
was the reward of her fidelity in the hour of the conflict. If her passions were brought so
thoroughly under subjection to reason and faith, that they seemed at last to have lost their
power, the grand conquest was the work of mortification. Knowing that Christ would live in
her in the plenitude of His Spirit, only when her natural life had been destroyed, she sought
opportunities of self-crucifixion, as men in general seek chances of gratification and enjoyment.
Every feeling, every faculty, every sense, was fastened to the cross. To her interior mortification
there was no limit; to her exterior, only that imposed by obedience, and as long as her austerities
involved no singularity, obedience imposed but little restraint on them.

While apparently leading an ordinary life, she contrived that no part of her frame should be
without its particular suffering, managing to transform into new acts of penance, the very
refreshment of food and sleep. Her joy was in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which
not only the external, but also the inner world was crucified to her. At any moment of her
existence, as well as on her dying bed, she might have truly said, "With Christ I am nailed
to the cross;" and with equal truth she might have added, "God forbid that I should glory save
in that precious and well-loved cross."

The earnestness with which she sought the entire crucifixion of nature, appears in the rules
which she laid down for her particular guidance after having made her vow to do in all things
what she believed most perfect. By these she bound herself to make no excuse when unjustly
accused; to watch so carefully over mind and heart, that no complaint should escape her under
any provocation; never to speak a word to her own advantage, and to be always ready to applaud
what was commendable in others; to show special sweetness to those for whom nature felt least
inclined; to embrace with loving resignation all trials from God and from creatures; to repress
every emotion of self-love, and every reflection on subjects calculated to arouse its sensibilities.
These rules, founded on the maxims of the Gospel, formed the guide of her life.

Her virtues were solid, because her humility, their foundation, was profound, and because her
humility was profound, God exalted her to a degree of purity of soul, and a consequent height
of union with Himself, rarely attained here below. During the whole of her life in France,
she was accustomed, as we know, to wonderful supernatural communications, but from the time
of her going to Canada, all such favours as could attract the eyes of men were withdrawn, the
Almighty having then intimated His will that her perfection should henceforth consist in the
practices of ordinary life. But although visible extraordinary favours were suspended, it was
not so with the invisible work of Divine grace; that went on ever advancing towards its consummation.
From the age of twenty, she had possessed the wondrous privilege of uninterrupted union with
God. It was her habitual permanent condition; neither suffering of mind, nor infirmity of health,
nor pressure of business, nor weight of care could divert her from it for a moment. Distractions
might flit through, and even trouble her imagination, but they never reached the inner soul,
which through all, maintained an uninterrupted view of the Divine presence. Her constant application
to spiritual things never interfered with the perfect fulfilment of her external duties, while
on the other hand, the most dissipating exterior occupations never for one instant disturbed
her interior recollection. Never were the spirit of Martha and of Mary more admirably or more
perfectly combined. If prayer is an elevation of the soul to God, it may be said without any
exaggeration, that her whole life was spent in this heavenly exercise. At the time of actual
prayer, she appeared like a seraph of love, her very aspect sufficing to excite devotion in
the coldest heart. This was an opinion often expressed by the pupils, who delighted in observing
her at prayer, and sometimes managed even to approach near enough to kiss her feet or her habit
unperceived. It is not given to us to speak of the sublimity of her prayer, especially towards
the end of life. As it became more and more simplified, it were perhaps best described as one
unbroken sigh of love. "My God! my great God! my Life! my Love! my Glory! This," she wrote,
"is my prayer; these words nourish my soul, not only at the time of actual prayer, but all
through the day, from the moment of rising, to that of retiring to rest. Imperfect as I am,
I feel habitually lost in my God, to whom I have been so many years united by indescribably
intimate bonds. I see His amiability, His grandeur, His majesty, His power, without previous
reasoning, or research. I can find no words to express what I would say to Him, yet the silence
of simple faith is eloquent. But although my soul is ever absorbed in my God, it never loses
sight of its own misery; the abyss of His greatness engulphs the abyss of its nothingness."
Not satisfied with all the love of the angels and saints, she desired that her heart could
burn even with infinite love, that so she might love her God adequately. She prayed our Lord
to place her heart on His, that on that altar of fire it might be made a perfect holocaust
of love. "I ask of Him," she said, "no earthly riches, treasures or joys, but only that I may
die of His love." Under the severest temporal losses, even in the midst of privations and positive
want, she felt, she said, as if needing nothing, for then especially she belonged to God, and
God belonged to her, and possessing Him, she had nothing to desire. She had indeed reached
that blessed state in which the soul exists more in the God whom she loves, than in the body
which she animates. [Footnote: Words quoted by Gerson from St. Augustine and St Bernard.] Yet
elevated as she was to sublimest heights of supernatural contemplation, she never failed carefully
to prepare a subject of ordinary meditation, true to the end, to her love of common practices,
and her esteem of common ways, from which, as we have so often remarked, she never swerved
but in obedience to the irresistible attraction of the Holy Spirit, and she ever maintained
that the most exalted spiritual state is that distinguished, not by raptures and ecstasies,
but by the perfect practice of the maxims of the Gospel, and the closest interior union with
Jesus. Her piety was solid and practical, and in one of her letters to her son, we find the
remark that she never could content herself with a devotion of mere sentiment and imagination.
Our Lord, she said, assumed our nature, that He might become our Model. In every condition,
we can imitate Him by the practice of His maxims, which not only discover to us what we have
to retrench and correct in our lives and conduct, but also guide us to the means of accomplishing
that difficult work of self-correction. Devotion that is not practical, seemed to her, she
said, like an edifice built on moving sand.

She had a lively confidence in the Sacred Heart of our Lord, and always concluded the spiritual
exercises of each day by recommending to the Eternal Father through Its infinite merits, the
Church of Canada, the preachers of the Gospel, and her friends. Her evening prayers to the
Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, are generally known and widely circulated not only in Canada,
but in many other countries also, especially among Ursulines. For the benefit of those who
may not be acquainted with them, we shall insert them at the end of the volume. She had a very
particular devotion also to the ever adorable Trinity, and to the most precious Blood. Of her
love for the Blessed Sacrament of the altar, it would be superfluous to speak. Her sentiments
on the holy Communion may be epitomized in the one word, that "she wished her life could be
one perpetual Communion." She was accustomed to say that she found in communion strength and
support for her soul under all the trials and difficulties of life, and so sensibly did she
experience its blessed effects, that it almost seemed as if for her the veil of the sacrament
had been removed, and the hidden wonders of the mystery of love made manifest.

Among the saints, after their glorious Queen, she honoured St. Joseph and St. Francis of Paula.
St. Joseph she had loved from childhood on account of his connection with our Lord and His
Blessed Mother; her devotion had received a new impulse from the time when he was shown to
her in her vision as the Patron of Canada. Her veneration for St. Francis of Paula originated
in the family traditions, which told how when the saint came to France at the prayer of Louis
XI, one of his escort from Italy was her great-grandfather, who in the fervour of his simple
faith, frequently took his children to visit God's servant and receive his blessing. She loved
to allude to the circumstance and no wonder, for there can be no doubt that a large share of
that holy blessing had descended to herself, and many were the spiritual helps which she received
from the saint in her progress through her pilgrimage. She had also a special devotion to the
holy Angels.

The history of the Venerable Mother Mary of the Incarnation, has spoken for itself, it is therefore
as unnecessary as it would be easy to multiply testimonies to her merits, both from contemporary
and more recent writers, still, as it would be doing her an injustice to omit them altogether,
we shall insert a very few among the large number at hand. Bishop Laval who knew her well,
writes, "She was adorned with every virtue in an exalted degree, and eminently endowed in particular,
with the gift of prayer and union with God. She was perfectly dead to self, living and acting
only by the Spirit of Jesus. The Almighty having chosen her for the great work of founding
the Ursuline Order in Canada, He granted her the plenitude of the spirit of that holy institute.
She was an admirable Superior, an excellent guide for novices, and equally qualified for every
other position in her community. Her life, externally ordinary, was interiorly divine, so that
she was deservedly looked on by her Sisters as a living rule." The eulogy of Pere Charlevoix
is equally strong. After calling her "the Teresa of New France," he says, "History presents
few women who can be compared with her, as none will deny who attentively study her life and
writings. Such," he continues, "was the opinion of the most enlightened individuals of the
age in which she lived; her most eloquent panegyrists were those who knew her best."

The Mother Cecilia of the Holy Cross, who had never been separated from her since they left
Dieppe together on their way to Canada, declared that in the thirty-three years of their close
companionship, she had never seen her transgress against meekness, patience, humility, charity,
obedience or poverty, or omit an opportunity of practising these great religious virtues.

To Dom Claude Martin, Madame de la Peltrie wrote after her return from her expedition to Montreal,
"I esteem myself happy and honoured in the privilege of living under the roof with the Mother
of the Incarnation. If I survive her, I shall give you many particulars of her life which will
call forth your gratitude to God. She is truly a chosen soul, precious in the eyes of the Lord.
What I particularly admire in her, is her fidelity to the duties of common life, and the love
which she evinces for those who treat her ill. She lives in great detachment from all but God;
perfect abandonment to Providence; unalterable peace, and a constant interior recollection
truly admirable. How happy I should be if I possessed the tenth part of her virtues!"

Announcing her decease to the monasteries of the Order in France, her Superior says, among
other things, "Her death was the echo of her holy life, passed as it was in the continual practice
of the most heroic virtues. Though Superior for eighteen years at different times, she was
the most submissive in the house to the one who occupied the place in the intervals. Her exactitude
to rule was perfect. Her humility persuaded her that she was unworthy to associate with her
Sisters, whose every act of virtue she observed with admiration. Her zeal for the glory of
God, far from having diminished with time, became at last a consuming fire. Her patience both
in life and death was truly admirable."...

       *       *       *       *       *

The tradition of her holiness passed from generation to generation, not only of the inmates
of the monastery, but of the inhabitants of Quebec generally. Years served but to confirm the
impression of her merits, and at last that impression took the form of one earnest, unanimous
desire and prayer, that our holy Mother the Church would deign to gladden the heart of every
Catholic in Canada, by admitting the Mother Mary of the Incarnation to a share in the public
veneration which she allows to her canonized saints. Numerous postulatory letters to this effect
were addressed to his late Holiness of saintly and venerated memory, Pope Pius IX, who after
the usual delay, permitted the preliminary steps towards the Beatification. The cause was introduced
on the 15th of September, 1877, when the Mother Mary of the Incarnation was honoured with the
title of Venerable, the prelude, as we humbly trust, to one more glorious and exalted still.
Among the postulatory letters is one which cannot be read without very particular interest.
It bears the signature of the Huron Grand Chief, followed by that of the principal chiefs and
warriors of the tribe.

"MOST HOLY FATHER,--The greatest of Fathers after Him who is in heaven, we are the least of
your children, but you are the representative of Him who said, 'Suffer little children to come
to me,' so we approach with confidence to prostrate at your feet.

"Most Holy Father,--We the chiefs and warriors of the Huron tribe, humbly present you a perfume
of rich fragrance, composed of the virtues of the Reverend Mother Mary of the Incarnation.
Deign, Holy Father, to offer it to God, that passing through your hands, it may more surely
find acceptance in His sight.

"The Mother of the Incarnation called us from our forests, that she might teach us to know
and adore the true Master of life. She took our hearts in her hand and placed them before the
Eternal, as a basket of fruit of her own culling.

"Through her instructions we have learned meekness; wolves and bears have fawned on her; the
angry roar of fury has been changed into the hymn of praise.

"Our mothers kissed the traces of her footsteps, and then signed our foreheads with the blessed
dust, fruitful for eternity. With her own hands she impressed the sign of faith on our hearts,
and it has never since been effaced. Thanks to her, we are able to read the books which recall
her benefits. We ourselves could fill many books with testimonies of our respectful gratitude.

"She loved us with a human as well as a spiritual affection, so she is twice our mother.

"It is through her teaching, and for her sake, that we have renounced our native wilds, and
come to live among our more civilized brethren. The Bear, the Wolf, the Goat, the Beaver and
the Tortoise [Footnote: Appellations of the five principal families of the tribe.] will be
henceforth chained to the sanctuary, and their occupation will be to celebrate the praises
of the Master of life.

"Many moons have passed since that first dawning of the true light. Our once flourishing nation
is on the eve of extinction, but,

"Most Holy Father, we beseech you to receive with the last prayer and last sigh of the Hurons,
the assurance of their profound reverence for the Mother Mary of the Incarnation.

"The bones of our fathers will exult in their tombs, if your voice proclaims the eternal happiness
of the Mother to whom we are indebted for our faith.

"She found among our women, virgins worthy of admittance to the sanctuary, and among our warriors,
missioners and martyrs who will weave a crown for her in heaven. There remains to us only one
drop of Huron blood, but if that could enrich the immortal crown of the Mother of the Incarnation,
we would willingly bid it flow.

"Prostrate at your feet, Most Holy Father, we implore your benediction."

Then follow the sixteen signatures of the Grand Chief and his fellow petitioners.

The day on which the touching appeal of the Hurons shall be responded to, will gladden many
a heart besides theirs.

Meantime, O Mother! we thank the Lord for the magnificent grace bestowed on thee, and for thy
fidelity in corresponding with them. We thank Him for having given us in thee so glorious a
model of religious perfection, and we pray that thy example may ever guide and thy spirit ever
animate us. We beseech thee to watch from heaven over the Order which on earth thou didst love
so well and adorn so brightly, and to obtain that no Ursuline may ever show herself unworthy
of her exalted and cherished title of a daughter of St. Angela, and of the Venerable Mother
Mary of the Incarnation.

APPENDIX.

On the 30th of April, 1833, more than a century and a half after the saintly death of the Venerable
Mother Mary of the Incarnation, her precious remains were removed with due solemnity from the
vault where they had long lain, to a place of greater honour in the choir of the Ursuline monastery.
On the occasion of this translation, the vault was discovered to be quite full of water, and
when the Venerable Mother's coffin was opened before being consigned to its new resting-place,
it was seen by many witnesses to be also filled with the same clear crystal fluid. The circumstance
was easily explained by the gradual filtration of water into the vault, whence it had penetrated
into the leaden case through small openings in the soldering. But although the presence of
the water could be thus simply accounted for, contact with the remains of God's holy servant
had given it a manifest claim to special reverence; it was therefore cautiously drawn off,
and has since been so carefully preserved, that although very generously shared with numerous
petitioners for it, the supply is not yet quite exhausted. One sealed bottle of this water
is kept for the admiration of posterity. The Almighty has been pleased to glorify Himself in
His faithful servant, by permitting that it should become the instrument of many wonderful
cures. [Footnote: In the History of the Ursuline Monastery of Quebec, published in 1866, the
writer says: "Some years ago, a woman of the neighbourhood informed me that her daughter had
been cured of a very serious affection of the eyes at the close of a Novena to the Venerable
Mother, on each day of which, the water of the tomb had been applied to the diseased part.
'I have a little of the water left,' she added, 'and I would not give it up for any consideration.
I have eight children dependent for support on my work; if one of them fell sick, what should
I do? I could not fee a doctor, so my only resource is in the water.' Imagining that she attached
the idea of some medicinal property to it, we hastened to assure her that it was only ordinary
water, which derived its efficacy from the prayers of the Mother of the Incarnation, whom she
had so fervently invoked. 'No, no,' she exclaimed, cutting short the explanation; 'it is not
ordinary water; if it were, it would corrupt and diminish, but instead of that, it seems to
me to increase. It is extraordinary water,' she said; 'it is holy water.' We left her under
her agreeable impression," adds the narrator, "thinking that the prodigy had perhaps been permitted
in recompense of her simple faith and confidence in our holy Mother."] We are not, however,
to suppose that reliance on the prayers of the Mother of the Incarnation dates only from its
discovery; confidence in her intercession has, on the contrary, ever kept pace with veneration
for her memory, and this, we know, has never varied except to increase.

No account has reached us of the favours obtained through the mediation of the Venerable Mother,
previous to the discovery of the water: whether an earlier record may have at one time existed,
and been afterwards destroyed by fire or otherwise, is uncertain. Even of the favours received
since 1833, no regular register was kept until 1867. In that year, Monseigneur Baillargeon,
Archbishop of Quebec, appointed a commission to examine and test, according to canonical forms,
all facts tending to demonstrate the sanctity of the Mother of the Incarnation. It then became
matter of universal regret that so little publicity had been given to the prodigies wrought
through her intercession: it would seem as if men's minds had become so familiarized with them
from the frequency of their recurrence, that no one had hitherto thought of attracting general
attention to them. On the occasion alluded to, however, the witnesses of the most recent were
examined, and on their testimony, a considerable number were proved.

We extract a few from the long catalogue, for the honour of Him who is glorious in His saints,
premising that we do not apply the epithet "miraculous," in its strict sense, to the occurrences
about to be related, the Church having in her wisdom reserved to herself the right to pronounce
definitively on miracles. We merely state facts certified by witnesses of unimpeachable character,
leaving to the superior tribunal to decide as to their supernatural origin.

Miss Margaret Mary Gowan had completely lost the use of an arm for nearly a year previous to
the opening of the tomb of the Mother of the Incarnation in 1833, and was cured after making
a Novena to the Venerable Mother, and using the water of the tomb. She was then a boarder at
the Ursulines, and is now a Sister of Charity in Quebec. This fact, adds the convent annalist,
inspired great confidence in the efficacy of the water which we had just collected from the
tomb with religious veneration.

A child of nine years of age, named Mary Adela Brunette, who had always been remarkable for
delicate health, was seized on the evening of December 31, 1853, with pain in the eyes so violent
as to deprive her of sleep. A few days later, a film was observed on both eyes, which it gradually
overspread, the pain meantime retaining its first intensity. The child had not only to be confined
to a room whence all light had been excluded, but moreover to wear a thick bandage across her
eyes. So great were her sufferings, that her father often said he would infinitely rather see
her dead, than witness them. For six months she had the best medical advice, but remedies seemed
only to aggravate pain. To open her eyes, appeared an impossibility.

Towards the end of July, 1854, a friend proposed to the child's parents to pray for her cure
through the intercession of the Venerable Mother of the Incarnation. The suggestion was at
once adopted, the parents and several neighbouring families arranging to meet daily at the
house of the little girl's uncle, a man remarkable for piety. The invalid was conducted thither
on the first day with extreme difficulty, precautions having been taken to render her eyes
absolutely inaccessible to the faintest ray of light. The next day, she asked to walk without
support, taking care, however, to cling closely to her mother's side. Soon she could endure
the light sufficiently to guide herself, was able to distinguish objects, and expressed surprise
at some slight alterations which had been made in the house during the seven months of her
illness. On the ninth day, one of her eyes was quite clear. Meantime, some of the water of
the tomb had been procured; it was applied during a second Novena, and the result was the child's
perfect restoration. She was not only free from pain, but able to bear the strongest sun-light.

The above particulars were given at Quebec, on the 3rd of June, 1862, by the young girl herself,
and confirmed by her mother. She had then had no return of disease of the eyes; her general
health was excellent, and her strength equal to any demand on it. She was so convinced of having
been cured through heavenly intervention, that she preserved as a precious relic, the empty
phial which had once contained the water of the tomb.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 22nd of December, 1862, Dr. Landry, an eminent physician residing at Quebec, gave the
following testimony, renewed in presence of several ecclesiastics, in 1867:--

"In September, 1859, my daughter had an extremely violent attack of tic- douloureux in the
left side of the face. The paroxysms recurred every two or three days, and lasted sometimes
an hour, sometimes two or more. In November, the malady assumed a still more severe character,
the paroxysms sometimes recurring twice in one day. Towards the end of December, the disease
yielded to persevering medical treatment.

"On the 1st of February, 1860, the child entered the Ursuline Convent at Quebec, and the next
day had a return of the malady, which continued without notable interruption until March 24th,
the eve of the Annunciation. In this last stage of her illness, the attacks of pain were very
frequent and very violent, numbering as many as four in a day.

"On the 16th of March, nine days before the feast of the Annunciation, one of the Sisters recommended
her to beg the intercession of the Mother of the Incarnation in a Novena, in which the community
and the pupils would unite. The paroxysms were violent, and of daily occurrence up to the second
last day of the Novena, when the attack was comparatively light. This proved the last. From
that moment she has had no return of the pain which for the previous six months had made her
life a torture. This wonderful cure which has now lasted eight years, I can attribute only
to the charitable and powerful intercession of the Venerable Mother Mary of the Incarnation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Abridged TESTIMONY of the same DR. LANDRY, in 1862, relatively to the recovery of Mother St.
Angela, an Ursuline Religious at Quebec.

"In 1859, my professional services were required by Mother Saint Angela, whose delicacy had
been of long standing. She was suffering from a complication of diseases, and at the period
referred to, was reduced to extreme exhaustion. The remedies resorted to, produced some slight
improvement, but it proved only temporary, for, from the middle of February, 1862, her infirmities
were so much aggravated, that she was obliged to keep her bed altogether. I had always looked
on her as an incurable invalid, destined to wear out her life in broken health and constant
suffering.

"At the beginning of May, of the same year, she told me that she felt better, and a few days
later, declared to me by order of her Superior, that she was restored to health.

"I did not meet my former patient from that time, until the present date, November, 1862, when
wishing to assure myself of her actual condition before writing the above report, I asked to
see her. She had an appearance of strength which I had never before observed in her, and although
retaining some slight traces of her former maladies, was now able, she assured me, to fulfil
all her duties, and to partake of the ordinary fare of the community with good appetite. Her
movements, once evincing extreme debility, were marked by the activity and animation of a healthy
young person. Her recovery was too prompt, too complete, and too permanent, to admit of my
attributing it to the remedies which I had prescribed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is the account of the same wonderful cure given by Mother St. Anne, Assistant
of the monastery, and a person of great experience in the care of the sick:--

"The ill health of Mother St. Angela was of many years' standing, but from 1848 to 1862, her
sufferings and consequent weakness had so considerably increased, that she had at last been
compelled to give up all the regular observances of the community, as well as the duties of
her particular charge.

"As that of a confirmed invalid, her case seemed to the chaplain of the monastery, one peculiarly
suited to manifest the power of the prayers of the Mother of the Incarnation. Accordingly,
to the general surprise, he suggested that a Novena should be offered to the Venerable Mother
for the patient's recovery. The pupils especially were amazed when asked to join. 'Our Mistress
general, whom we have not seen for three months!' they exclaimed; 'as well ask for the resurrection
of the dead! Why, she is but half-alive, and not young either!' To induce them to unite, they
had to be reminded of the omnipotence of the Most High, to whom it is as easy to repair His
works, as it was to create them;--reminded, too, that the worse the case, the greater would
be the wonder of the cure, should it please God to grant it. Still, several remained incredulous,
and though all prayed, many felt but little confidence.

"On the 22nd of April, a solemn Novena was commenced, and it terminated on the 30th, the anniversary
of the death of the holy Mother. After Mass, the Mother Superior proceeded to visit the invalid,
who had communicated in bed at an early hour, and unwilling to believe that she had not been
cured, told her to rise. Mother St. Angela attempted to do so, but even with assistance, could
not stand, and had no resource but to return to bed. 'You see, Mother,' she said, 'our good
God wills me to remain in my present state. I had a great desire that my recovery should redound
to the honour of the Mother of the Incarnation, but God's will be done! Let us think no more
of recovery.' 'That is not my view of the subject,' replied the Mother Superior, as if suddenly
inspired. 'You must begin another Novena to-morrow, asking our Venerable Mother to obtain for
you at least sufficient health to fulfil the duties of your charge, and at the close of this
Novena, you will assist at Mass, and communicate in the choir.' In all simplicity, the invalid
commenced a second Novena on the 1st of May, again joined by all the Sisters and boarders.
On the very first day, she felt well enough to resume the recitation of the Office. Appetite,
sleep and strength rapidly returned; on the seventh day, she went down to the confessional,
and on the ninth, heard Mass, and received Holy Communion in the choir, as she had been ordered.
She immediately commenced a Novena of thanksgiving at the tomb of the Mother of the Incarnation,
and before its close, had resumed all the regular observances, including very early rising,
the fasts and abstinences prescribed by rule, and the chanting of the Divine Office. Surprised
and overjoyed, the pupils entoned a triumphant 'Magnificat' for the recovery of their 'resuscitated
Mother,' as they called her." During the two years which had elapsed since the cure, when the
above statement was written, Mother St. Angela had had no necessity to omit a single community
exercise, from four o'clock in the morning to nine at night. So perfect was her recovery, that
she said her previous illness seemed to her only like a dream, adding that she felt no inconvenience
from duties which had fatigued her when she was young and healthy, but was on the contrary
ready to recommence them when completed. She called her restoration, a real resurrection, almost
a transformation.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the summer of 1862, Madame Joseph Latourneau of Quebec, was laid prostrate by a complication
of maladies. Towards the middle of July, the danger became so imminent, that on taking leave
of her one evening, the physician begged her husband to let him know in the morning whether
she was still alive. There seemed so little hope of her passing the night, that several friends
had assembled to assist, as they supposed, at her last moments. One of these visitors brought
a little of the water of the tomb, and inquired of the invalid whether she had confidence in
it. "Oh, yes!" she replied; "great confidence! Have I a chance of getting any of it? I am sure
the holy Mother will cure me."--And in afterwards relating the circumstance, she said, "I began
to weep, without knowing why, and felt an internal conviction, that I should be restored."
She derived immediate benefit from the water, passed a better night, and the next day, the
doctor pronounced her out of danger. During her convalescence, she kept a picture of the Venerable
Mother continually before her, convinced, as well as the rest of her family, that she owed
her restoration to health to the intercession of this powerful Advocate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Madame Joseph Belanger of Quebec gives the following details of a favour obtained through the
same channel:--

A thick eruption had gathered over the upper part of her baby's lace, spreading gradually to
the eyelids and closing the eyes, and still the physicians feared to venture remedies. Seeing
that the disease threatened the mouth and ears, the mother became greatly alarmed. Her sister
who had received a signal favour from the Venerable Mother, pressed her to use the water of
the tomb with faith, telling her that she still possessed a few drops of it, and assuring her
that the child would thus be restored, as she had been herself. The water was accordingly applied
lightly and sparingly to the parts affected, and to the joy and admiration of the spectators,
the malady appeared at once to change its character. After the third or fourth application,
all traces of it had vanished, "as if by magic," said the grateful mother. This event occurred
in 1862. When the above details were furnished, the little girl was about six years of age,
and up to that period had not shown the least tendency to a renewal of the disease of her infancy.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 31, 1862.--First Testimony to the cure of Sister Mary of Jesus, a Sister of Charity
residing at Cacouma, one hundred and twenty miles from Quebec,--addressed to the Mother Superior
of the Ursulines at Quebec.

"REVEREND MOTHER,--A thousand thanks for the small phial of water which you were kind enough
to send me. As I wrote you, Sister Mary of Jesus was extremely ill on Friday; that evening
she appeared so near death, that the prayers of the agonizing were said for her. She was unable
to swallow the water, but no sooner had her lips been moistened with it, than she seemed to
revive. The next day the physician found her out of danger to his great surprise. Join us in
returning thanks to God and His faithful servant for this great favour.

"Sister MARY DE BON SECOURS, Assistant."

       *       *       *       *       *

Second Testimony, again addressed to the Mother Superior at Quebec:--

"For the information of all interested in the case, and for the glory of God in His saints,
I declare and certify the following:--

"On the 31st of October, 1862, I administered the last sacraments to Sister Mary of Jesus,
a Sister of Charity near Quebec, first because from my own observation, I considered her death
inevitable, unless averted by miraculous interposition, and secondly, because the attending
physician had assured me that he saw no chance of saving her life. To my certain knowledge,
the Mother Superior of the convent exhorted Sister Mary of Jesus to ask for her cure through
the intercession of the Mother of the Incarnation, in whom she had herself great confidence,
after which, the apparently dying sister took a few drops of the water, spent a good night,
and the next day, was so much better, that both, in the house and in the environs, her recovery
was declared a miracle, attributable to the prayers of the Mother of the Incarnation. In faith
of which, I have signed the present declaration on the 21st of May, 1867. "J. C. CLOUTIER,
P.P. of Cacouma."

       *       *       *       *       *

Elias Desharnais, a labourer at Stanfold had given himself a severe hurt, while engaged in
mowing; the result was a long fit of illness, followed by utter incapacity for all laborious
exertion. Two years after this accident, he was thrown from his horse, and so violently trampled,
that he was taken up by the passers-by, senseless and apparently lifeless. For forty-eight
hours, he remained unconscious, and during the seven or eight succeeding days, frequently relapsed
into insensibility. After a time, he was able to walk, but he gained no strength, and every
attempt to resume his work so aggravated his sufferings, that after each trial he was constrained
to keep his bed for weeks. He had been in this infirm condition six years, when his sister
informed him of a remarkable cure just wrought at the Ursuline Convent, Quebec, where she was
herself a lay Sister, advising him also to apply for relief to their Benefactress, the Mother
of the Incarnation. A first Novena not having produced any sensible improvement, the good religious
sent him some of the water of the tomb, urging him to make a second Novena, and to endeavour
to approach the Holy Communion at its conclusion. He made the Novena; applied the water to
the stomach, the seat of suffering, and on the ninth day approached the holy table. His faith
and hope were not frustrated. From that moment, every trace of his infirmity vanished, he went
at once to his work, and having experienced no inconvenience from his first efforts, undertook
and accomplished in person the heaviest part of the agricultural labours of the season,--mowing,
reaping, saving the hay, storing the grain, &c. Two of his brothers having removed from home
about this time, a double share of work devolved on him.' He laboured as vigorously and as
unceasingly since, as he had done previously to his accident. Such is the testimony which he
himself gave at the Ursuline Convent, on the 12th of November, 1866, having travelled from
Stanfold to Quebec, for no other purpose than to make the statement, and declaring that he
looked on the expense and fatigue of the journey as of little consequence, compared with the
happiness of having thus slightly testified his gratitude to his heavenly Benefactress.

       *       *       *       *       *

1864.--Madame Elzear Vincent, a resident in Quebec, aged thirty, had suffered for seven weeks
from pain in the knee. The inflammation spreading to the thigh, she was compelled to keep her
bed and became quite incapable of moving. Miss Bilodeau, a former pupil of the Laval Normal
school, having procured some of the water of the tomb for the patient, they both joined in
a Novena to the Mother of the Incarnation. The first application of the water was followed
by sensible relief. On the third day, the invalid was well, and able to resume her household
duties.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 21st of October, 1867, Madame Chateauvert, of the suburb St. Louis, Quebec, declared
that she believed herself indebted to the intercession of the Mother of the Incarnation for
the preservation of her little girl, aged six weeks, during three of which she had suffered
from violent convulsions. The same malady had already deprived Madame Chateauvert of four of
her children, and the danger in the present case seemed all the more imminent, as the convulsions
had set in earlier than with the other little ones. Towards the middle of July, 1867, the attack
was so violent that the infant remained insensible for three hours. The water of the tomb was
then applied to her temples; she immediately revived and from this first day of the Novena,
had no return of the convulsions, but has enjoyed good health.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 20th of February, 1867, Mrs. Isaac Fullerton of Quebec presented herself at the Ursuline
monastery to give the following account of her wonderful cure. She stated that for seven weeks,
she had completely lost the use of her right hand, which was so swollen, especially in the
finger joints, that she could neither open nor close it. The pain extended through the arm
and shoulder. In addition, she had suffered all through the winter from an almost intolerable
ear ache. Having heard of the water of the tomb, she sent for some: she also procured, a copy
of the prayer [Footnote: See end of Volume.] "By the Heart of my Jesus," and began a Novena.
At the first application of the water, she found her hand becoming supple, and made her husband
observe the improvement. On the ninth day of the Novena, her arm and shoulder were perfectly
free from the least pain or stiffness. But the ear ache had not yielded, and on the 9th of
February, the day before her deposition, it had been very severe: a tumour had even formed
during the preceding days on the upper part of the right ear. In the evening, her husband asked
her why she did not try the water of the tomb, which would no doubt prove as efficacious in
this ease, as it had done in the previous. The idea had not occurred to her before, and finding
that a little remained in the phial she applied it to the ear. A momentary sensation of great
heat all through the head was followed by total relief from suffering. "God be praised!" she
exclaimed, "I am cured; I have no pain!" Her husband echoed her exclamation of surprise and
joy, when on examining the ear, he found that even the tumour had disappeared. "I am now perfectly
well," concluded Mrs. Fullerton; "entirely free from suffering, and with heartfelt gratitude
I declare that it is to the prayer of the Mother of the Incarnation I am indebted for my cure."

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Bilodeau, a teacher at Riviere Noire in the parish of St. Agapetus, made the following
declaration on the 29th of August, 1867:--

