[2] But let examples serve for illustration. By heredity man wants to become great and also
rich. In the measure in which these loves are not checked he wants to become still greater
and richer and finally the greatest and richest; even so he would not rest, but would want
to become greater than God Himself and possess heaven itself. This lust is hidden deep in hereditary
evil and consequently in man's life and in the nature of his life. Divine providence does not
remove this evil in a moment; if it were removed in a moment man would cease to live; but divine
providence removes it quietly and gradually without man's knowing of it. It does this by letting
man act according to the thinking which he deems rational; then by various means, rational
and also civil and moral, it leads him away and withdraws him so far as he can be withdrawn
in freedom. Nor can evil be removed from anyone unless it comes out and is seen and acknowledged;
it is like a wound which heals only when opened.

[3] If, therefore, man knew and saw that the Lord in His divine providence works in this way
against his life's love, the source of his highest enjoyment, he could not but go in the opposite
direction, be enraged, rebel, say harsh things, and finally, on account of his evil, brush
aside the activity of divine providence, denying it and so denying God. He would do this especially
if he saw success thwarted or saw himself lowered in standing or deprived of wealth.

[4] But it is to be known that the Lord in no wise leads man away from seeking position and
acquiring wealth, but leads him away from the lust of seeking position solely for the sake
of eminence or for his own sake, and also from acquiring wealth for its own sake or just to
have it. Leading the man away, He introduces him into the love of uses so that he may regard
eminence not for his own sake but for the sake of uses, thus as attached to uses and only so
to himself, and not as attached to him and then to the uses; the same applies to wealth. At
many places in the Word the Lord Himself teaches that He continually humbles the proud and
exalts the humble; what He teaches in it is also of His divine providence.

184. Any other evil in which man is by heredity is dealt with in like manner, such as adultery,
fraud, vengeance, blasphemy and other similar evils, none of which can be removed except as
freedom to think and will them is left to man for him to remove them as if of himself. Nevertheless
he can do this only as he acknowledges divine providence and prays that it may be done by it.
Apart from this freedom and from divine providence at the same time, the evils would be like
poison shut in and not driven out, which would spread quickly and consign all parts to death,
or would be like disease of the heart itself, from which the whole body soon dies.

185. The truth of what has been said cannot be better known than from human lives after death
in the spiritual world. Very many who had become great or wealthy in the natural world and
in their eminence or riches had regarded themselves alone, at first speak of God and divine
providence as though they had acknowledged them at heart, but seeing divine providence clearly
then and their final lot under it, namely, for them to enter hell, they unite with devils there
and not only deny God then but also blaspheme Him. Finally they reach such madness that they
acknowledge the more powerful among devils as their gods and desire nothing more ardently than
to become gods themselves.

186. Man would go contrary to God and also deny Him if he saw the activities of God's divine
providence plainly, for the reason that man is in the enjoyment of self-love and this enjoyment
constitutes his very life. Therefore when man is held in the enjoyment of his life he is in
his freedom, for freedom and the enjoyment make one. If, then, he should perceive that he is
continually being led away from his enjoyment, he would be enraged as against one who wanted
to destroy his life and would hold him to be an enemy. Lest it happen, the Lord in His divine
providence does not appear manifestly, but leads man by it as silently as a hidden stream or
favorable current does a vessel. Consequently man does not know but that he is steadily in
his own, for his freedom and his proprium make one. Hence it is plain that freedom appropriates
to him what divine providence introduces, which would not take place if providence were manifest.
To be appropriated means to become of one's life.

187. (iv) Man can see divine providence on the back and not in the face; also in a spiritual
state but not in a natural. To see divine providence on the back but not in the face means
after it acts and not before. To see it in a spiritual state and not in a natural is to see
it from heaven and not from the world. All who receive influx from heaven and acknowledge divine
providence, especially those who have become spiritual through reformation, on beholding events
taking a wonderful course see providence as it were from an interior acknowledgment and confess
it. These do not wish to see it in the face, that is, before it eventuates, fearing that their
volition may intrude on something of its order and tenor.

[2] It is otherwise with those who do not admit any influx from heaven but only from the world,
especially with those who have become natural by confirming appearances in themselves. They
do not see anything of divine providence on the back, that is, after it eventuates, but wish
to behold it in the face or before it eventuates; and as divine providence works by means,
and these are provided through man or the world, they attribute providence, whether they look
it in the face or on the back, to man or to nature, and so confirm themselves in the denial
of it. They make this ascription of it because their understanding is closed above, that is,
to heaven, and open only below, that is, to the world; one cannot see divine providence in
a worldly outlook, only in a heavenly. I have wondered sometimes whether they would acknowledge
divine providence if their understanding was opened above and they were to see as in the light
of day that nature in itself is dead, and human intelligence in itself nothing, and that it
is by influx that either appears to have being. I perceived that those who have confirmed themselves
in favor of nature and of human prudence would not make the acknowledgment because the natural
light flowing in from below would immediately extinguish the spiritual light flowing in from above.

189.* The man who has become spiritual by acknowledgment of God, and wise by rejection of the
proprium, sees divine providence in the world as a whole and in each and all things in it.
Looking at natural things, he sees it; at civil things, he sees it; at spiritual things, he
sees it; and in things simultaneous as well as successive. He sees it in ends, causes, effects,
uses, forms, things great and small. Above all he sees it in the salvation of men, as that
Jehovah gave the Word, taught men by it about God and about heaven and hell and eternal life,
and Himself came into the world to redeem men and save them. Man sees these and many other
things and divine providence in them from spiritual light in natural light.

* The Latin original has no number 188.

[2] The merely natural man, however, sees none of these things. He is like a man who sees a
magnificent temple and hears a preacher enlightened in divine things, but once home asserts
that he saw only a stone building and heard nothing but sounds made. Again, he is like a near-sighted
man who steps into a garden remarkable for fruits of every sort and who reports on getting
home that he saw only woods and trees. Moreover, when such persons, having become spirits after
death, are taken up into the angelic heaven where all objects are in forms representative of
love and wisdom, they see none of them, not even that they exist. I have seen this happen with
a number who denied the Lord's divine providence.

190. Many constant things exist, created that inconstant things may exist. These and many more
things existing from the creation are provided so that infinitely varying things may exist,
for what varies can exist only in what is constant, fixed and certain.

[2] Examples will illustrate this. The varieties of vegetation would not be possible unless
sunrise and sunset and the resulting heat and light were constant. Harmonies are infinitely
varied, and would not exist unless the atmospheres were constant in their laws and the ear
in its form. Varieties of vision, which are also infinite, would not exist unless the ether
in its laws and the eye in its organization were constant; equally so, colors, unless light
was constant. The same is true of thoughts, words and actions, which are of infinite variety
too; they could not exist, either, unless the organic forms of the body were constant. Must
not a house be steady for a variety of things to be done in it by a person? So must a temple
be for the various acts of worship, preaching, instruction and devout meditation to be possible
in it. So in much else.

[3] As for the varieties found in the constant, fixed and certain, they go on to infinity and
have no end; no one thing in the whole universe or in any part of it is ever precisely the
same as another, nor can be in the progress of things to eternity. Who disposes these varieties
which proceed to infinity and eternity so that they have order unless it is He who created
what is constant to the end that they may exist in it? And who can dispose the infinite varieties
of life among men but He who is life itself, that is, love itself and wisdom itself? Except
by His divine providence, which is like a continual creation, can the infinite affections of
men and their thoughts thence and thus the men themselves be disposed so as to make one? Evil
affections and the thoughts from them to make one devil which is hell, and good affections
and the thoughts from them one Lord in heaven? We have said and shown several times before
that the whole angelic heaven is like one man in the Lord's sight, an image and likeness of
Him, and all hell over against it like one monstrous man. This has been said because some natural
men seize on arguments for their madness in favor of nature and of one's own prudence from
even the constant and fixed which must exist for the variable to exist in it.

X. THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS ONE'S OWN PRUDENCE; THERE ONLY APPEARS TO BE AND IT SHOULD SO
APPEAR; BUT DIVINE PROVIDENCE IS UNIVERSAL BY BEING IN THE LEAST THINGS

191. That there is no such thing as one's own prudence is contrary to appearances and therefore
to the belief of many. Because it is, one who believes, on the strength of the appearance,
that human prudence does all things, cannot be convinced except by reasons to be had from a
more profound investigation and to be gathered from causes. The appearance is an effect, and
causes disclose how it arises. By way of introduction something will be said about the common
faith on the subject. Contrary to the appearance the church teaches that love and faith are
not from man but from God, so also wisdom and intelligence, therefore prudence also, and in
general all good and truth. When this teaching is accepted, one must also agree that there
is no such thing as one's own prudence, but there only appears to be. Prudence comes only from
intelligence and wisdom and both of these only from the understanding and its grasp of truth
and good. All this is accepted and believed by those who acknowledge divine providence, but
not by those who only acknowledge human prudence.

[2] Now, either what the church teaches is true, that all wisdom and prudence are from God,
or what the world teaches, that they are from man. Can these views be reconciled in any other
way than this, that what the church teaches is the truth, and what the world teaches is the
appearance? For the church establishes its teaching from the Word, but the world its teaching
from the proprium; and the Word is God's, and the proprium is man's. Because prudence is from
God and not from man a Christian in his devotions, prays God to lead his thoughts, purposes
and actions, and also adds that by himself he cannot. Again, seeing someone doing good, he
says the person has been led to it by God; and so about much else. Can anyone speak so unless
he inwardly believes it? To believe it inwardly comes from heaven. But when a man deliberates
and gathers arguments in favor of human prudence he can believe the contrary, and this is from
the world. The internal faith prevails with those who acknowledge God in their hearts; the
external faith with those who do not acknowledge Him at heart, however much they may with the lips.

192. In order, then, that the reasons gathered from causes may be plain to the understanding,
let them be put forward in due order as follows:

i. All man's thoughts are from affections of his life's love; there are and can he no thoughts
apart from them. ii. The affections of the life's love are known to the Lord alone. iii. Through
His divine providence the Lord leads the affections of the life's love of man and at the same
time the thoughts, too, from which human prudence comes. iv. By His divine providence the Lord
assembles the affections of all mankind into one form--the human form. v. Heaven and hell,
which are from mankind, are therefore in such a form. vi. Those who have acknowledged nature
alone and human prudence alone make up hell, and those who have acknowledged God and His divine
providence make up heaven. vii. All this can be effected only as it appears to man that he
thinks from himself and disposes by himself.

193. ( i ) All man's thoughts are from affections of his life's love; there are and can be
no thoughts apart from them. It has been shown above in this treatise and also in the one entitled
Angelic Wisdom about Divine Love and Wisdom, Parts I and V particularly, what the life's love
and the affections and the thoughts from them are essentially, and what the sensations and
actions arising from them in the body are. Inasmuch as these are the causes from which human
prudence issues as an effect, something needs to be said about them here also.

[2] Earlier in this treatise, and in that just mentioned about Divine Love and Wisdom, it was
shown that in the Lord are divine love and wisdom; that these two are life itself; that from
the two man has will and understanding, will from the divine love and understanding from the
divine wisdom; that heart and lungs in the body correspond to these two; that this may make
plain that as the pulsation of the heart along with the respiration of the lungs rules the
whole man as to the body, so the will together with the understanding rules him as to his mind;
that thus there are two principles of life in everyone, one natural and the other spiritual,
and that the natural principle of life is the heartbeat, and the spiritual is the will of the
mind; that each adjoins a consort to itself with which it cohabits and performs the functions
of life; and that the heart joins the lungs to itself, and the will the understanding to itself.

[3] Now, as the soul of the will is love, and the soul of the understanding is wisdom, both
of them from the Lord, love is the life of everyone and is such life as it has in union with
wisdom; or what is the same, the will is the life of everyone and is such life as it has in
conjunction with the understanding. More on the subject may be seen above in this treatise
and especially in Angelic Wisdom about Divine Love and Wisdom, Parts I and V.

194. It was also demonstrated in the treatises mentioned that the life's love produces subordinate
loves from itself, called affections; that these are exterior and interior; and that taken
together they make one dominion or kingdom as it were, in which the life's love is lord or
king. It was also shown that these subordinate loves or affections adjoin consorts to themselves,
each its own, the interior affections consorts called perceptions, and the exterior consorts
called knowledges, and each cohabits with its consort and performs the functions of its life.
In each instance, it was shown, the union is like that of life's very being with life's coming
forth, which is such that the one is nothing without the other; for what is life's being unless
it is active and what is life's activity if it is not from life's very being? The conjunction
in life, it was likewise shown, is like that of sound and harmony, of sound and utterance,
too, in general like that of the heart's pulsation and the respiration of the lungs, a union,
again, such that one without the other is nothing and each becomes something in union with
the other. Union must either be in them or come about by them.

[2] Consider, for example, sound. One who thinks that sound is something if there is nothing
distinctive in it is much mistaken. It also corresponds to affection in man, and as something
distinctive is always in it the affection of a person's love is known from the sound of his
voice in speaking, and his thought is known from the varied sounds which speech is. Hence the
wiser angels perceive just from the sound of his voice a man's life's love together with some
of the affections which are its derivatives. This has been remarked that it may be known that
no affection is possible without its thought, and no thought without its affection. More on
the subject can be seen above in this treatise and in Angelic Wisdom about Divine Love and Wisdom.

195. Inasmuch as the life's love has its enjoyment, and its wisdom its pleasure, and likewise
every affection, which is essentially a lesser love derived from the life's love like a stream
from its source or a branch from a tree or an artery from the heart, therefore every affection
has its enjoyment and the perception or thought from it its pleasure. Consequently these enjoyments
and pleasures make man's life. What is life without joy and pleasure? It is not animated at
all, but inanimate. Reduce enjoyment and pleasure and you grow cold and torpid; take them away
and you expire and die. Vital heat comes from the enjoyments of the affections and the pleasures
of the perceptions and thoughts.

[2] As every affection has its enjoyment and the thought thence its pleasure, it may be plain
whence good and truth are and what they are essentially. Whatever is the enjoyment of one's
affection is one's good, and one's truth is what is pleasant to the thought from that affection.
For everyone calls that good which he feels in the love of his will to be enjoyable, and calls
that truth which he then perceives in the wisdom of his understanding to be pleasant. The enjoyable
and the pleasant both flow out from the life's love as water does from a spring or blood from
the heart; together they are like an element or the atmosphere in which man's whole mind is.

[3] The two, enjoyment and pleasure, are spiritual in the mind and natural in the body, and
in each make man's life. From this it is plain what it is in man that is called good, and what
it is that is called truth; likewise what it is in man that is called evil and false; whatever
destroys the enjoyment of his affection is evil to him, and what destroys the pleasure of his
thought thence is false to him. It is plain, moreover, that evil on account of the enjoyment
in it and falsity on account of the pleasure in it may be called good and truth and believed
to be good and truth. Goods and truths are indeed changes and variations of state in the forms
of the mind, but they are perceived and have life only through the enjoyments and pleasures
they have to give. This is noted to make known what affection and thought are in their life.

196. Inasmuch as it is not the body but man's mind that thinks and that does so from the enjoyment
of one's affection, and inasmuch as man's mind is his spirit which lives after death, man's
spirit is nothing else than affection and thought therefrom. It is altogether plain from spirits
and angels in the spiritual world that thought cannot exist apart from affection, for they
all think from the affections of their life's love; the enjoyments of these affections attend
each as his atmosphere, and all are united by these spheres exhaled from the affections by
their thoughts. The character of each one is known also by the sphere of his life. It may be
seen from this that all thought is from an affection and is the form of that affection. The
same applies to the relationship between will and understanding, good and truth, and charity
and faith.

197. (ii) The affections of the life's love of man are known to the Lord alone. Man knows his
thoughts and his intentions in them because he sees them in himself, and as all prudence is
from them, he sees this, too, within him. Then if his life's love is self-love, he comes to
take pride in his own intelligence, ascribes prudence to himself, gathers arguments in support
of it, and thus recedes from acknowledging divine providence. Much the same happens if love
of the world is his life's love, but he does not then recede to the same extent. It is plain
from this that these two loves ascribe all things to man and to his prudence and when interiorly
examined ascribe nothing to God and to His providence. When persons who do this happen to hear
that the reality is that there is no such thing as human prudence, but that divine providence
alone governs all things, they laugh at this if they are outright atheists; if they hold something
of religion in remembrance and are told that all wisdom is from God, they assent on first hearing
it, but inwardly in their spirit deny it. Such especially are priests who love themselves more
than God, and the world more than heaven, or what is the same, worship God for position's or
riches' sake, and yet have been preaching that charity and faith, all good and truth, all wisdom,
too, and in fact prudence are from God and none of them from man.

