Where, then, was the novelty in Lever's tale? Partly, I think, in a new seriousness in dealing
with Potts's disease. Formerly, the contrast between madness and sanity was deemed comic: Hogarth
shows us how fashionable people went in parties to Bedlam to laugh at the lunatics. I myself
have had a village idiot exhibited to me as some thing irresistibly funny. On the stage the
madman was once a regular comic figure; that was how Hamlet got his opportunity before Shakespear
touched him. The originality of Shakespear's version lay in his taking the lunatic sympathetically
and seriously, and thereby making an advance towards the eastern consciousness of the fact
that lunacy may be inspiration in disguise, since a man who has more brains than his fellows
necessarily appears as mad to them as one who has less. But Shakespear did not do for Pistol
and Parolles what he did for Hamlet. The particular sort of madman they represented, the romantic
makebeliever, lay outside the pale of sympathy in literature: he was pitilessly despised and
ridiculed here as he was in the east under the name of Alnaschar, and was doomed to be, centuries
later, under the name of Simon Tappertit. When Cervantes relented over Don Quixote, and Dickens
relented over Pickwick, they did not become impartial: they simply changed sides, and became
friends and apologists where they had formerly been mockers.

In Lever's story there is a real change of attitude. There is no relenting towards Potts: he
never gains our affections like Don Quixote and Pickwick: he has not even the infatuate courage
of Tappertit. But we dare not laugh at him, because, somehow, we recognize ourselves in Potts.
We may, some of us, have enough nerve, enough muscle, enough luck, enough tact or skill or
address or knowledge to carry things off better than he did; to impose on the people who saw
through him; to fascinate Katinka (who cut Potts so ruthlessly at the end of the story); but
for all that, we know that Potts plays an enormous part in ourselves and in the world, and
that the social problem is not a problem of story-book heroes of the older pattern, but a problem
of Pottses, and of how to make men of them. To fall back on my old phrase, we have the feeling--one
that Alnaschar, Pistol, Parolles, and Tappertit never gave us--that Potts is a piece of really
scientific natural history as distinguished from comic story telling. His author is not throwing
a stone at a creature of another and inferior order, but making a confession, with the effect
that the stone hits everybody full in the conscience and causes their self-esteem to smart
very sorely. Hence the failure of Lever's book to please the readers of Household Words. That
pain in the self-esteem nowadays causes critics to raise a cry of Ibsenism. I therefore assure
them that the sensation first came to me from Lever and may have come to him from Beyle, or
at least out of the Stendhalian atmosphere. I exclude the hypothesis of complete originality
on Lever's part, because a man can no more be completely original in that sense than a tree
can grow out of air.

Another mistake as to my literary ancestry is made whenever I violate the romantic convention
that all women are angels when they are not devils; that they are better looking than men;
that their part in courtship is entirely passive; and that the human female form is the most
beautiful object in nature. Schopenhauer wrote a splenetic essay which, as it is neither polite
nor profound, was probably intended to knock this nonsense violently on the head. A sentence
denouncing the idolized form as ugly has been largely quoted. The English critics have read
that sentence; and I must here affirm, with as much gentleness as the implication will bear,
that it has yet to be proved that they have dipped any deeper. At all events, whenever an English
playwright represents a young and marriageable woman as being anything but a romantic heroine,
he is disposed of without further thought as an echo of Schopenhauer. My own case is a specially
hard one, because, when I implore the critics who are obsessed with the Schopenhaurian formula
to remember that playwrights, like sculptors, study their figures from life, and not from philosophic
essays, they reply passionately that I am not a playwright and that my stage figures do not
live. But even so, I may and do ask them why, if they must give the credit of my plays to a
philosopher, they do not give it to an English philosopher? Long before I ever read a word
by Schopenhauer, or even knew whether he was a philosopher or a chemist, the Socialist revival
of the eighteen-eighties brought me into contact, both literary and personal, with Mr Ernest
Belfort Bax, an English Socialist and philosophic essayist, whose handling of modern feminism
would provoke romantic protests from Schopenhauer himself, or even Strindberg. As a matter
of fact I hardly noticed Schopenhauer's disparagements of women when they came under my notice
later on, so thoroughly had Mr Bax familiarized me with the homoist attitude, and forced me
to recognize the extent to which public opinion, and consequently legislation and jurisprudence,
is corrupted by feminist sentiment.

But Mr Bax's essays were not confined to the Feminist question. He was a ruthless critic of
current morality. Other writers have gained sympathy for dramatic criminals by eliciting the
alleged "soul of goodness in things evil"; but Mr Bax would propound some quite undramatic
and apparently shabby violation of our commercial law and morality, and not merely defend it
with the most disconcerting ingenuity, but actually prove it to be a positive duty that nothing
but the certainty of police persecution should prevent every right-minded man from at once
doing on principle. The Socialists were naturally shocked, being for the most part morbidly
moral people; but at all events they were saved later on from the delusion that nobody but
Nietzsche had ever challenged our mercanto-Christian morality. I first heard the name of Nietzsche
from a German mathematician, Miss Borchardt, who had read my Quintessence of Ibsenism, and
told me that she saw what I had been reading: namely, Nietzsche's Jenseits von Gut and Bose.
Which I protest I had never seen, and could not have read with any comfort, for want of the
necessary German, if I had seen it.

Nietzsche, like Schopenhauer, is the victim in England of a single much quoted sentence containing
the phrase "big blonde beast." On the strength of this alliteration it is assumed that Nietzsche
gained his European reputation by a senseless glorification of selfish bullying as the rule
of life, just as it is assumed, on the strength of the single word Superman (Ubermensch) borrowed
by me from Nietzsche, that I look for the salvation of society to the despotism of a single
Napoleonic Superman, in spite of my careful demonstration of the folly of that outworn infatuation.
But even the less recklessly superficial critics seem to believe that the modern objection
to Christianity as a pernicious slave-morality was first put forward by Nietzsche. It was familiar
to me before I ever heard of Nietzsche. The late Captain Wilson, author of several queer pamphlets,
propagandist of a metaphysical system called Comprehensionism, and inventor of the term "Crosstianity"
to distinguish the retrograde element in Christendom, was wont thirty years ago, in the discussions
of the Dialectical Society, to protest earnestly against the beatitudes of the Sermon on the
Mount as excuses for cowardice and servility, as destructive of our will, and consequently
of our honor and manhood. Now it is true that Captain Wilson's moral criticism of Christianity
was not a historical theory of it, like Nietzsche's; but this objection cannot be made to Mr
Stuart-Glennie, the successor of Buckle as a philosophic historian, who has devoted his life
to the elaboration and propagation of his theory that Christianity is part of an epoch (or
rather an aberration, since it began as recently as 6000BC and is already collapsing) produced
by the necessity in which the numerically inferior white races found themselves to impose their
domination on the colored races by priestcraft, making a virtue and a popular religion of drudgery
and submissiveness in this world not only as a means of achieving saintliness of character
but of securing a reward in heaven. Here you have the slave-morality view formulated by a Scotch
philosopher long before English writers began chattering about Nietzsche.

As Mr Stuart-Glennie traced the evolution of society to the conflict of races, his theory made
some sensation among Socialists--that is, among the only people who were seriously thinking
about historical evolution at all--by its collision with the class-conflict theory of Karl
Marx. Nietzsche, as I gather, regarded the slave-morality as having been invented and imposed
on the world by slaves making a virtue of necessity and a religion of their servitude. Mr Stuart-Glennie
regards the slave-morality as an invention of the superior white race to subjugate the minds
of the inferior races whom they wished to exploit, and who would have destroyed them by force
of numbers if their minds had not been subjugated. As this process is in operation still, and
can be studied at first hand not only in our Church schools and in the struggle between our
modern proprietary classes and the proletariat, but in the part played by Christian missionaries
in reconciling the black races of Africa to their subjugation by European Capitalism, we can
judge for ourselves whether the initiative came from above or below. My object here is not
to argue the historical point, but simply to make our theatre critics ashamed of their habit
of treating Britain as an intellectual void, and assuming that every philosophical idea, every
historic theory, every criticism of our moral, religious and juridical institutions, must necessarily
be either imported from abroad, or else a fantastic sally (in rather questionable taste) totally
unrelated to the existing body of thought. I urge them to remember that this body of thought
is the slowest of growths and the rarest of blossomings, and that if there is such a thing
on the philosophic plane as a matter of course, it is that no individual can make more than
a minute contribution to it. In fact, their conception of clever persons parthenogenetically
bringing forth complete original cosmogonies by dint of sheer "brilliancy" is part of that
ignorant credulity which is the despair of the honest philosopher, and the opportunity of the
religious impostor.

THE GOSPEL OF ST. ANDREW UNDERSHAFT

It is this credulity that drives me to help my critics out with Major Barbara by telling them
what to say about it. In the millionaire Undershaft I have represented a man who has become
intellectually and spiritually as well as practically conscious of the irresistible natural
truth which we all abhor and repudiate: to wit, that the greatest of evils and the worst of
crimes is poverty, and that our first duty--a duty to which every other consideration should
be sacrificed--is not to be poor. "Poor but honest," "the respectable poor," and such phrases
are as intolerable and as immoral as "drunken but amiable," "fraudulent but a good after-dinner
speaker," "splendidly criminal," or the like. Security, the chief pretence of civilization,
cannot exist where the worst of dangers, the danger of poverty, hangs over everyone's head,
and where the alleged protection of our persons from violence is only an accidental result
of the existence of a police force whose real business is to force the poor man to see his
children starve whilst idle people overfeed pet dogs with the money that might feed and clothe
them.

It is exceedingly difficult to make people realize that an evil is an evil. For instance, we
seize a man and deliberately do him a malicious injury: say, imprison him for years. One would
not suppose that it needed any exceptional clearness of wit to recognize in this an act of
diabolical cruelty. But in England such a recognition provokes a stare of surprise, followed
by an explanation that the outrage is punishment or justice or something else that is all right,
or perhaps by a heated attempt to argue that we should all be robbed and murdered in our beds
if such senseless villainies as sentences of imprisonment were not committed daily. It is useless
to argue that even if this were true, which it is not, the alternative to adding crimes of
our own to the crimes from which we suffer is not helpless submission. Chickenpox is an evil;
but if I were to declare that we must either submit to it or else repress it sternly by seizing
everyone who suffers from it and punishing them by inoculation with smallpox, I should be laughed
at; for though nobody could deny that the result would be to prevent chickenpox to some extent
by making people avoid it much more carefully, and to effect a further apparent prevention
by making them conceal it very anxiously, yet people would have sense enough to see that the
deliberate propagation of smallpox was a creation of evil, and must therefore be ruled out
in favor of purely humane and hygienic measures. Yet in the precisely parallel case of a man
breaking into my house and stealing my wife's diamonds I am expected as a matter of course
to steal ten years of his life, torturing him all the time. If he tries to defeat that monstrous
retaliation by shooting me, my survivors hang him. The net result suggested by the police statistics
is that we inflict atrocious injuries on the burglars we catch in order to make the rest take
effectual precautions against detection; so that instead of saving our wives' diamonds from
burglary we only greatly decrease our chances of ever getting them back, and increase our chances
of being shot by the robber if we are unlucky enough to disturb him at his work.

But the thoughtless wickedness with which we scatter sentences of imprisonment, torture in
the solitary cell and on the plank bed, and flogging, on moral invalids and energetic rebels,
is as nothing compared to the stupid levity with which we tolerate poverty as if it were either
a wholesome tonic for lazy people or else a virtue to be embraced as St Francis embraced it.
If a man is indolent, let him be poor. If he is drunken, let him be poor. If he is not a gentleman,
let him be poor. If he is addicted to the fine arts or to pure science instead of to trade
and finance, let him be poor. If he chooses to spend his urban eighteen shillings a week or
his agricultural thirteen shillings a week on his beer and his family instead of saving it
up for his old age, let him be poor. Let nothing be done for "the undeserving": let him be
poor. Serve him right! Also--somewhat inconsistently--blessed are the poor!

Now what does this Let Him Be Poor mean? It means let him be weak. Let him be ignorant. Let
him become a nucleus of disease. Let him be a standing exhibition and example of ugliness and
dirt. Let him have rickety children. Let him be cheap and let him drag his fellows down to
his price by selling himself to do their work. Let his habitations turn our cities into poisonous
congeries of slums. Let his daughters infect our young men with the diseases of the streets
and his sons revenge him by turning the nation's manhood into scrofula, cowardice, cruelty,
hypocrisy, political imbecility, and all the other fruits of oppression and malnutrition. Let
the undeserving become still less deserving; and let the deserving lay up for himself, not
treasures in heaven, but horrors in hell upon earth. This being so, is it really wise to let
him be poor? Would he not do ten times less harm as a prosperous burglar, incendiary, ravisher
or murderer, to the utmost limits of humanity's comparatively negligible impulses in these
directions? Suppose we were to abolish all penalties for such activities, and decide that poverty
is the one thing we will not tolerate--that every adult with less than, say, 365 pounds a year,
shall be painlessly but inexorably killed, and every hungry half naked child forcibly fattened
and clothed, would not that be an enormous improvement on our existing system, which has already
destroyed so many civilizations, and is visibly destroying ours in the same way?

Is there any radicle of such legislation in our parliamentary system? Well, there are two measures
just sprouting in the political soil, which may conceivably grow to something valuable. One
is the institution of a Legal Minimum Wage. The other, Old Age Pensions. But there is a better
plan than either of these. Some time ago I mentioned the subject of Universal Old Age Pensions
to my fellow Socialist Mr Cobden-Sanderson, famous as an artist-craftsman in bookbinding and
printing. "Why not Universal Pensions for Life?" said Cobden-Sanderson. In saying this, he
solved the industrial problem at a stroke. At present we say callously to each citizen: "If
you want money, earn it," as if his having or not having it were a matter that concerned himself
alone. We do not even secure for him the opportunity of earning it: on the contrary, we allow
our industry to be organized in open dependence on the maintenance of "a reserve army of unemployed"
for the sake of "elasticity." The sensible course would be Cobden-Sanderson's: that is, to
give every man enough to live well on, so as to guarantee the community against the possibility
of a case of the malignant disease of poverty, and then (necessarily) to see that he earned it.

Undershaft, the hero of Major Barbara, is simply a man who, having grasped the fact that poverty
is a crime, knows that when society offered him the alternative of poverty or a lucrative trade
in death and destruction, it offered him, not a choice between opulent villainy and humble
virtue, but between energetic enterprise and cowardly infamy. His conduct stands the Kantian
test, which Peter Shirley's does not. Peter Shirley is what we call the honest poor man. Undershaft
is what we call the wicked rich one: Shirley is Lazarus, Undershaft Dives. Well, the misery
of the world is due to the fact that the great mass of men act and believe as Peter Shirley
acts and believes. If they acted and believed as Undershaft acts and believes, the immediate
result would be a revolution of incalculable beneficence. To be wealthy, says Undershaft, is
with me a point of honor for which I am prepared to kill at the risk of my own life. This preparedness
is, as he says, the final test of sincerity. Like Froissart's medieval hero, who saw that "to
rob and pill was a good life," he is not the dupe of that public sentiment against killing
which is propagated and endowed by people who would otherwise be killed themselves, or of the
mouth-honor paid to poverty and obedience by rich and insubordinate do-nothings who want to
rob the poor without courage and command them without superiority. Froissart's knight, in placing
the achievement of a good life before all the other duties--which indeed are not duties at
all when they conflict with it, but plain wickednesses--behaved bravely, admirably, and, in
the final analysis, public-spiritedly. Medieval society, on the other hand, behaved very badly
indeed in organizing itself so stupidly that a good life could be achieved by robbing and pilling.
If the knight's contemporaries had been all as resolute as he, robbing and pilling would have
been the shortest way to the gallows, just as, if we were all as resolute and clearsighted
as Undershaft, an attempt to live by means of what is called "an independent income" would
be the shortest way to the lethal chamber. But as, thanks to our political imbecility and personal
cowardice (fruits of poverty both), the best imitation of a good life now procurable is life
on an independent income, all sensible people aim at securing such an income, and are, of course,
careful to legalize and moralize both it and all the actions and sentiments which lead to it
and support it as an institution. What else can they do? They know, of course, that they are
rich because others are poor. But they cannot help that: it is for the poor to repudiate poverty
when they have had enough of it. The thing can be done easily enough: the demonstrations to
the contrary made by the economists, jurists, moralists and sentimentalists hired by the rich
to defend them, or even doing the work gratuitously out of sheer folly and abjectness, impose
only on the hirers.

The reason why the independent income-tax payers are not solid in defence of their position
is that since we are not medieval rovers through a sparsely populated country, the poverty
of those we rob prevents our having the good life for which we sacrifice them. Rich men or
aristocrats with a developed sense of life--men like Ruskin and William Morris and Kropotkin--have
enormous social appetites and very fastidious personal ones. They are not content with handsome
houses: they want handsome cities. They are not content with bediamonded wives and blooming
daughters: they complain because the charwoman is badly dressed, because the laundress smells
of gin, because the sempstress is anemic, because every man they meet is not a friend and every
woman not a romance. They turn up their noses at their neighbors' drains, and are made ill
by the architecture of their neighbors' houses. Trade patterns made to suit vulgar people do
not please them (and they can get nothing else): they cannot sleep nor sit at ease upon "slaughtered"
cabinet makers' furniture. The very air is not good enough for them: there is too much factory
smoke in it. They even demand abstract conditions: justice, honor, a noble moral atmosphere,
a mystic nexus to replace the cash nexus. Finally they declare that though to rob and pill
with your own hand on horseback and in steel coat may have been a good life, to rob and pill
by the hands of the policeman, the bailiff, and the soldier, and to underpay them meanly for
doing it, is not a good life, but rather fatal to all possibility of even a tolerable one.
They call on the poor to revolt, and, finding the poor shocked at their ungentlemanliness,
despairingly revile the proletariat for its "damned wantlessness" (verdammte Bedurfnislosigkeit).

So far, however, their attack on society has lacked simplicity. The poor do not share their
tastes nor understand their art-criticisms. They do not want the simple life, nor the esthetic
life; on the contrary, they want very much to wallow in all the costly vulgarities from which
the elect souls among the rich turn away with loathing. It is by surfeit and not by abstinence
that they will be cured of their hankering after unwholesome sweets. What they do dislike and
despise and are ashamed of is poverty. To ask them to fight for the difference between the
Christmas number of the Illustrated London News and the Kelmscott Chaucer is silly: they prefer
the News. The difference between a stockbroker's cheap and dirty starched white shirt and collar
and the comparatively costly and carefully dyed blue shirt of William Morris is a difference
so disgraceful to Morris in their eyes that if they fought on the subject at all, they would
fight in defence of the starch. "Cease to be slaves, in order that you may become cranks" is
not a very inspiring call to arms; nor is it really improved by substituting saints for cranks.
Both terms denote men of genius; and the common man does not want to live the life of a man
of genius: he would much rather live the life of a pet collie if that were the only alternative.
But he does want more money. Whatever else he may be vague about, he is clear about that. He
may or may not prefer Major Barbara to the Drury Lane pantomime; but he always prefers five
hundred pounds to five hundred shillings.

Now to deplore this preference as sordid, and teach children that it is sinful to desire money,
is to strain towards the extreme possible limit of impudence in lying, and corruption in hypocrisy.
The universal regard for money is the one hopeful fact in our civilization, the one sound spot
in our social conscience. Money is the most important thing in the world. It represents health,
strength, honor, generosity and beauty as conspicuously and undeniably as the want of it represents
illness, weakness, disgrace, meanness and ugliness. Not the least of its virtues is that it
destroys base people as certainly as it fortifies and dignifies noble people. It is only when
it is cheapened to worthlessness for some, and made impossibly dear to others, that it becomes
a curse. In short, it is a curse only in such foolish social conditions that life itself is
a curse. For the two things are inseparable: money is the counter that enables life to be distributed
socially: it is life as truly as sovereigns and bank notes are money. The first duty of every
citizen is to insist on having money on reasonable terms; and this demand is not complied with
by giving four men three shillings each for ten or twelve hours' drudgery and one man a thousand
pounds for nothing.

Once take your eyes from the ends of the earth and fix them on this truth just under your nose;
and Andrew Undershaft's views will not perplex you in the least. Unless indeed his constant
sense that he is only the instrument of a Will or Life Force which uses him for purposes wider
than his own, may puzzle you. If so, that is because you are walking either in artificial Darwinian
darkness, or to mere stupidity. All genuinely religious people have that consciousness. To
them Undershaft the Mystic will be quite intelligible, and his perfect comprehension of his
daughter the Salvationist and her lover the Euripidean republican natural and inevitable. That,
however, is not new, even on the stage. What is new, as far as I know, is that article in Undershaft's
religion which recognizes in Money the first need and in poverty the vilest sin of man and society.

This dramatic conception has not, of course, been attained per saltum. Nor has it been borrowed
from Nietzsche or from any man born beyond the Channel. The late Samuel Butler, in his own
department the greatest English writer of the latter half of the XIX century, steadily inculcated
the necessity and morality of a conscientious Laodiceanism in religion and of an earnest and
constant sense of the importance of money. It drives one almost to despair of English literature
when one sees so extraordinary a study of English life as Butler's posthumous Way of All Flesh
making so little impression that when, some years later, I produce plays in which Butler's
extraordinarily fresh, free and future-piercing suggestions have an obvious share, I am met
with nothing but vague cacklings about Ibsen and Nietzsche, and am only too thankful that they
are not about Alfred de Musset and Georges Sand. Really, the English do not deserve to have
great men. They allowed Butler to die practically unknown, whilst I, a comparatively insignificant
Irish journalist, was leading them by the nose into an advertisement of me which has made my
own life a burden. In Sicily there is a Via Samuele Butler. When an English tourist sees it,
he either asks "Who the devil was Samuele Butler?" or wonders why the Sicilians should perpetuate
the memory of the author of Hudibras.

Well, it cannot be denied that the English are only too anxious to recognize a man of genius
if somebody will kindly point him out to them. Having pointed myself out in this manner with
some success, I now point out Samuel Butler, and trust that in consequence I shall hear a little
less in future of the novelty and foreign origin of the ideas which are now making their way
into the English theatre through plays written by Socialists. There are living men whose originality
and power are as obvious as Butler's; and when they die that fact will be discovered. Meanwhile
I recommend them to insist on their own merits as an important part of their own business.

THE SALVATION ARMY

When Major Barbara was produced in London, the second act was reported in an important northern
newspaper as a withering attack on the Salvation Army, and the despairing ejaculation of Barbara
deplored by a London daily as a tasteless blasphemy. And they were set right, not by the professed
critics of the theatre, but by religious and philosophical publicists like Sir Oliver Lodge
and Dr Stanton Coit, and strenuous Nonconformist journalists like Mr William Stead, who not
only understood the act as well as the Salvationists themselves, but also saw it in its relation
to the religious life of the nation, a life which seems to lie not only outside the sympathy
of many of our theatre critics, but actually outside their knowledge of society. Indeed nothing
could be more ironically curious than the confrontation Major Barbara effected of the theatre
enthusiasts with the religious enthusiasts. On the one hand was the playgoer, always seeking
pleasure, paying exorbitantly for it, suffering unbearable discomforts for it, and hardly ever
getting it. On the other hand was the Salvationist, repudiating gaiety and courting effort
and sacrifice, yet always in the wildest spirits, laughing, joking, singing, rejoicing, drumming,
and tambourining: his life flying by in a flash of excitement, and his death arriving as a
climax of triumph. And, if you please, the playgoer despising the Salvationist as a joyless
person, shut out from the heaven of the theatre, self-condemned to a life of hideous gloom;
and the Salvationist mourning over the playgoer as over a prodigal with vine leaves in his
hair, careering outrageously to hell amid the popping of champagne corks and the ribald laughter
of sirens! Could misunderstanding be more complete, or sympathy worse misplaced?

Fortunately, the Salvationists are more accessible to the religious character of the drama
than the playgoers to the gay energy and artistic fertility of religion. They can see, when
it is pointed out to them, that a theatre, as a place where two or three are gathered together,
takes from that divine presence an inalienable sanctity of which the grossest and profanest
farce can no more deprive it than a hypocritical sermon by a snobbish bishop can desecrate
Westminster Abbey. But in our professional playgoers this indispensable preliminary conception
of sanctity seems wanting. They talk of actors as mimes and mummers, and, I fear, think of
dramatic authors as liars and pandars, whose main business is the voluptuous soothing of the
tired city speculator when what he calls the serious business of the day is over. Passion,
the life of drama, means nothing to them but primitive sexual excitement: such phrases as "impassioned
poetry" or "passionate love of truth" have fallen quite out of their vocabulary and been replaced
by "passional crime" and the like. They assume, as far as I can gather, that people in whom
passion has a larger scope are passionless and therefore uninteresting. Consequently they come
to think of religious people as people who are not interesting and not amusing. And so, when
Barbara cuts the regular Salvation Army jokes, and snatches a kiss from her lover across his
drum, the devotees of the theatre think they ought to appear shocked, and conclude that the
whole play is an elaborate mockery of the Army. And then either hypocritically rebuke me for
mocking, or foolishly take part in the supposed mockery! Even the handful of mentally competent
critics got into difficulties over my demonstration of the economic deadlock in which the Salvation
Army finds itself. Some of them thought that the Army would not have taken money from a distiller
and a cannon founder: others thought it should not have taken it: all assumed more or less
definitely that it reduced itself to absurdity or hypocrisy by taking it. On the first point
the reply of the Army itself was prompt and conclusive. As one of its officers said, they would
take money from the devil himself and be only too glad to get it out of his hands and into
God's. They gratefully acknowledged that publicans not only give them money but allow them
to collect it in the bar--sometimes even when there is a Salvation meeting outside preaching
teetotalism. In fact, they questioned the verisimilitude of the play, not because Mrs Baines
took the money, but because Barbara refused it.

On the point that the Army ought not to take such money, its justification is obvious. It must
take the money because it cannot exist without money, and there is no other money to be had.
Practically all the spare money in the country consists of a mass of rent, interest, and profit,
every penny of which is bound up with crime, drink, prostitution, disease, and all the evil
fruits of poverty, as inextricably as with enterprise, wealth, commercial probity, and national
prosperity. The notion that you can earmark certain coins as tainted is an unpractical individualist
superstition. None the less the fact that all our money is tainted gives a very severe shock
to earnest young souls when some dramatic instance of the taint first makes them conscious
of it. When an enthusiastic young clergyman of the Established Church first realizes that the
Ecclesiastical Commissioners receive the rents of sporting public houses, brothels, and sweating
dens; or that the most generous contributor at his last charity sermon was an employer trading
in female labor cheapened by prostitution as unscrupulously as a hotel keeper trades in waiters'
labor cheapened by tips, or commissionaire's labor cheapened by pensions; or that the only
patron who can afford to rebuild his church or his schools or give his boys' brigade a gymnasium
or a library is the son-in-law of a Chicago meat King, that young clergyman has, like Barbara,
a very bad quarter hour. But he cannot help himself by refusing to accept money from anybody
except sweet old ladies with independent incomes and gentle and lovely ways of life. He has
only to follow up the income of the sweet ladies to its industrial source, and there he will
find Mrs Warren's profession and the poisonous canned meat and all the rest of it. His own
stipend has the same root. He must either share the world's guilt or go to another planet.
He must save the world's honor if he is to save his own. This is what all the Churches find
just as the Salvation Army and Barbara find it in the play. Her discovery that she is her father's
accomplice; that the Salvation Army is the accomplice of the distiller and the dynamite maker;
that they can no more escape one another than they can escape the air they breathe; that there
is no salvation for them through personal righteousness, but only through the redemption of
the whole nation from its vicious, lazy, competitive anarchy: this discovery has been made
by everyone except the Pharisees and (apparently) the professional playgoers, who still wear
their Tom Hood shirts and underpay their washerwomen without the slightest misgiving as to
the elevation of their private characters, the purity of their private atmospheres, and their
right to repudiate as foreign to themselves the coarse depravity of the garret and the slum.
Not that they mean any harm: they only desire to be, in their little private way, what they
call gentlemen. They do not understand Barbara's lesson because they have not, like her, learnt
it by taking their part in the larger life of the nation.

BARBARA'S RETURN TO THE COLORS.

Barbara's return to the colors may yet provide a subject for the dramatic historian of the
future. To go back to the Salvation Army with the knowledge that even the Salvationists themselves
are not saved yet; that poverty is not blessed, but a most damnable sin; and that when General
Booth chose Blood and Fire for the emblem of Salvation instead of the Cross, he was perhaps
better inspired than he knew: such knowledge, for the daughter of Andrew Undershaft, will clearly
lead to something hopefuller than distributing bread and treacle at the expense of Bodger.

It is a very significant thing, this instinctive choice of the military form of organization,
this substitution of the drum for the organ, by the Salvation Army. Does it not suggest that
the Salvationists divine that they must actually fight the devil instead of merely praying
at him? At present, it is true, they have not quite ascertained his correct address. When they
do, they may give a very rude shock to that sense of security which he has gained from his
experience of the fact that hard words, even when uttered by eloquent essayists and lecturers,
or carried unanimously at enthusiastic public meetings on the motion of eminent reformers,
break no bones. It has been said that the French Revolution was the work of Voltaire, Rousseau
and the Encyclopedists. It seems to me to have been the work of men who had observed that virtuous
indignation, caustic criticism, conclusive argument and instructive pamphleteering, even when
done by the most earnest and witty literary geniuses, were as useless as praying, things going
steadily from bad to worse whilst the Social Contract and the pamphlets of Voltaire were at
the height of their vogue. Eventually, as we know, perfectly respectable citizens and earnest
philanthropists connived at the September massacres because hard experience had convinced them
that if they contented themselves with appeals to humanity and patriotism, the aristocracy,
though it would read their appeals with the greatest enjoyment and appreciation, flattering
and admiring the writers, would none the less continue to conspire with foreign monarchists
to undo the revolution and restore the old system with every circumstance of savage vengeance
and ruthless repression of popular liberties.

