"After your hard work you ought to have an audience to admire and applaud," he said, "and I
shall tell them we want them particularly. They were asking how your dressmaking was getting
on the other day, so I am sure they will be glad to accept.  You won't want an answer, I suppose,
Mistress Housekeeper?  They can return with me or not, as the case may be?"

"Certainly!  Certainly!  It makes no difference," said Peggy loftily; and thus it happened
that the girls went upstairs to dress that evening without knowing who would be waiting to
receive them when they made their entrance into the drawing-room.  The blouses were laid out
in the dressing-room which connected the two bedrooms, and to a casual glance there was no
doubt which was the more successful.  The one could boast no remove from the commonplace, the
other was both artistic and uncommon, a garment which might have come direct from the hands
of a French modiste.  Eunice's face fell as she looked, and she breathed a sigh of depression.

"Oh, Peggy, how horrid mine looks beside yours!  What a mean, skimpy little rag!  I am ashamed
to appear in it.  You will look beautiful, perfectly beautiful!  You have done it splendidly."

Peggy gave a murmur of polite disclaimer, and pursed in her lips to restrain a smile.

"Wait until they are on, dear.  You can never tell how a thing looks until it is on," she said
reassuringly; but alas, for Peggy, little did she dream how painfully she would discover the
truth of her own words.

A quarter of an hour later Eunice was hooking the front of her bodice, when the door burst
open and in rushed Peggy, red in the face, gasping for breath, her neck craned forward, her
arms sticking out stiffly on either side, for all the world like a waxen figure in a shop window.

"My neck!" she gasped.  "My sleeves!  They torture me!  My arms are screwed up like sausages.
The collar band cuts like a knife.  I'm like a trussed fowl--I'll burst!  I know I shall! 
I'll die of asphyxiation. What shall I do?  What shall I do?  What can have happened to make
it like this?"

"Oh dear! oh dear!  You do look uncomfortable.  It was big enough when you tried it on last.
You must have drawn in the arm-holes while you were sewing them.  Yes, you have!  I can see
the puckers, and the sleeves are stretched so tight too.  You didn't take them in again, surely?"

"Just a tiny bit.  They looked so baggy.  But the collar, Eunice, the collar!  For pity's sake
take it off!  I shall be raw in a moment.  Take the scissors, pull--tug!  Get it off as quick
as you can."

"Take it off!  But then what will you--" pleaded Eunice; but Peggy's eyes flashed at her with
so imperious a command that she began to snip without further protest.  The band came off easily--astonishingly
easily, and Peggy heaved a sigh of relief, and flapped her arms in the air.

"When!  That's better.  I can breathe again.  I could not have borne it another moment.  Now
I should be fairly comfortable, if only--only--the sleeves were a little bigger!  It is too
late to let them out, but just round the arm-holes, eh?  A little tiny snip here and there
to relieve the pressure?"

She put her head on one side in her most insinuating fashion, but Eunice was adamant.  Never,
she protested, would she consent to such a step. No seam could be expected to hold, if treated
in such fashion.  How would Peggy like it if her sleeve came off altogether in the course of
the evening?  There would be humiliation!  Better a thousand times a trifling discomfort than
such a downfall as that!

"Trifling!" echoed Peggy sadly.  "Trifling indeed.  Shows all you know. I am suffering tortures,
my dear, and you stand there, cool and comfortable, preaching at me!"  She paused for a moment,
and for the first time stared scrutinously at her friend.  Eunice looked charming, the simplicity
of her dress giving a quaint, Quaker-like appearance to the sweet face.  Plain as her blouse
was, it was a remarkable success for a first effort, and though it had necessarily a dozen
faults, the whole effect was neat and dainty.

"What did I tell you?" groaned Peggy dismally.  "Who looks better now, you or I?  I look `beautiful,'
don't I, perfectly beautiful!  It's so becoming to have no collar band, and one's arms sticking
out like flails!  I sha'n't be able to eat a bite.  It's as much as I can do to sit still,
much less move about.  I'll put on a fichu, and then I can leave some hooks unfastened, to
give myself a little air."

It seemed, indeed, the best solution, since somehow or other it was necessary to conceal the
jagged silk round the neck.  Peggy pinned on a square of chiffon; but the numerous trimmings
over which it lay gave a clumsy appearance to her usually trim little figure, while discomfort
and annoyance steadily raised the colour in her cheeks.  She was conscious of appearing at
her worst, and for one moment was tempted to throw aside her plan, and take to ordinary evening-dress.
Only for one moment, however, for the next she decided roundly against so mean a course.  What
if she had failed? her guest had succeeded, and why rob her of praise well-earned?  After all,
would she not have been a hundred times more distressed if positions had been reversed, and
Eunice was suffering her present discomfort?  The cloud left her brow, and she led the way
downstairs with a jaunty air.

"Come along, come along!  I've always vowed that I enjoyed a good beating, and now I've got
a chance of proving the truth of my words. You are a born dressmaker, my dear, and the sooner
I retire from the business the better.  You will be the hero of the occasion, and I shall be
the butt; but don't look so remorseful, I implore you.  It has been a great joke, and some
day--years hence!--I may even see some humour in the present condition of my arms.  I'm accustomed
to being teased, and don't care one little bit how much they deride me!"

A moment later, as the drawing-room door opened, she realised indeed how little she cared,
for Rob was not there.  His excuses had evidently already been made, for no allusion was made
to his absence, while her own appearance with Eunice was the signal for a general rising, every
one exclaiming and applauding, and walking round in admiring circles. Eunice was overwhelmed
with congratulations, while Peggy had to run the gauntlet of remorseless family banter.

Only one voice was raised in her behalf, but Hector Darcy declared with unblushing effrontery
that he voted in her favour, and held to his decision, in spite of all that the others could
say.  Peggy deplored his want of taste, yet felt a dreary sense of comfort in his fealty. 
It soothed the ache at her heart, and made her so unconsciously gentle in return that the major's
hopes went up at a bound.

After dinner, chairs were carried into the verandah, and Peggy made no demur when Hector set
her seat and his own at a little distance from the rest.  Perhaps at heart she was even a little
grateful to him for being so anxious to enjoy her society, for no one else seemed to desire
it for that moment.  Colonel and Mrs Saville were talking contentedly together, Arthur was
engrossed with Eunice, Rob--ah, where was Rob?  Had he made up his mind never to enter Yew
Hedge again?  Peggy turned her conversational gift to account, and led the subject so subtly
in the way she would have it go, that presently Hector found himself explaining the cause of
his brother's absence, believing that that explanation was entirely of his own offering.

"Rob is busy writing a paper for some magazine or review, and can think of nothing else.  You
know what he is when he once gets mounted on his hobby!  He would have thought it a terrible
waste of time to have left his papers to come out to dinner."

Well, well, the time had been when Rob would not have thought it waste of time to spend an
evening with his friend; when not even an article for a review would have prevented him from
witnessing the completion of an enterprise in which his partner was interested.

It was a very woe-begone Peggy who crept into bed that evening.  Her arms were stiff and sore
from their long pressure, there were the deep red marks on her shoulders where the seams had
pressed into the flesh, but the ache in her heart was worse to bear than either one or the
other.  She burrowed her little brown head into the pillow, and the salt tears trickled down
her nose.

"Nobody loves me!" she sobbed.  "Nobody loves me!  Mellicent was right. He loves beetles better
than me!"

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

A week later Arthur's picnic came off under circumstances of unusual eclat.  The extravagant
fellow had arranged everything on so luxurious a scale that Mellicent sat in a dream of happiness,
building castles in the air, in which she continually drove about in dog-carts, travelled in
reserved carriages, and ate luncheons provided by Buzzard.  Her plump face assumed quite a
haughty aspect, as she mentally acknowledged the salutations of the crowd, and issued orders
to flunkies, gorgeous in powder and knee-breeches.  It was enough happiness just to sit and
think of it, and munch the delicious chocolates which Arthur dispensed among his guests.

It was a pretty scene--that group of young people in the Pullman carriage, the girls in their
white dresses, the tall, handsome men, the cheery little chaperon in the centre.  The professor
and Esther sat by a window whispering earnestly together, for having been separated for a weary
length of ten whole days, they had naturally large arrears of talk to make up.  Arthur pointed
out the various objects of interest to Eunice, as the train whizzed past, and Peggy sat glued
to the side of Mrs Bryce, determined not to be monopolised by Hector thus early in the day.
Rob had come with his brother, but she felt little satisfaction in his presence, knowing that
he had tried to refuse the invitation, and had only yielded on Arthur's assertion that he was
needed for help, not ornament, and must come whether he liked it or not, to lend a hand with
the oars.  He looked pre-occupied and solemn, but was absolutely friendly in his manner, rejoicing
in the fineness of the weather, and congratulating Peggy on the success of her dressmaking
experiment, of which he had heard from his brother.  To explain that Hector's report was entirely
prejudiced, seemed but a tacit acknowledgment of his infatuation, and Peggy blushed in sheer
anger at the perversity of Fate, the while she gave the true version of the affair, and dilated
on her own sufferings.

"It will be a lesson to me for life not to interfere with the business of others, and take
the bread out of the mouths of professionals by amateur interference," she concluded grandiloquently,
and Rob smiled in his grave, kindly fashion.  It seemed to Peggy that there was an added kindliness
in his smile of late, and several times during the morning she looked up suddenly, to discover
his eyes fixed upon her with a scrutiny at once so tender, so anxious, and so searching, that
she was obliged to turn aside to conceal her tears.

