TWICE TOLD TALES

                       THE WHITE OLD MAID

                     By Nathaniel Hawthorne

The moonbeams came through two deep and narrow windows, and showed a spacious chamber, richly
furnished in an antique fashion.  From one lattice, the shadow of the diamond panes was thrown
upon the floor; the ghostly light, through the other, slept upon a bed, falling between the
heavy silken curtains, and illuminating the face of a young man. 

Now we come to the solution.

In the solution, it was first necessary to create new legal concepts. The incompleteness and
imperfections of our legal basis, I told you so. It had The basic concept is found, which allowed us to
transform the economic cycle. We created a new term of the seizure, with a bit arbitrary, but the siege
Law We stood aside, and later everything is also independent of the martial law been sanctioned.
This concept of seizure does not mean that a product in state property passes, but only that it adheres
to a restriction that they do no more, what they or their owners, but what a higher power
wants. This item may only be for War purposes; you can sell it to process, transport, in every
take any shape, but what they also experienced: they always remain subject to the law, that
it can only serve the war effort.

At the beginning you have to come to terms with this difficult concept, and we often said, that
would not be been correct, we should have everything confiscated. I mention this not to once
again To refute the claim because it collapses. If we had the goods of only one single economic
group, such as metals requisitioned, so all the copper, tin, nickel, Aluminum, antimony, tungsten,
chromium, so we would become owners of millions of individual Lot, and every day would have
been countless questions: What is with this and that Lot to be made? May he rolled, drawn, to
be cast? Who should get it? He is urgently needed. And on the other hand, the whole process would
have stood still, made up a new distribution was. And the monitoring and allocation of billions of
values unknown items, would we like to load.

The term of the seizure has proven and is from our war economy not disappear. But the new form
has led us through serious danger. For in the moment when a product was seized, listened to a
peacetime economy. If at industrial metal, the metals were seized, he could not longer work for
peace , He was instructed to make war orders, and he had his equipment and machinery, its Working
methods and products to move war work, he had a new economic Life begin. It was a terrible
trial for the industries, especially metallurgical, the chemical and textile production.

In those difficult weeks late last year, when the orders were issued,
were my Colleagues at the AEG to me and said, "You know, what did
you do?

  And Edith,
too!  Was not her white form fading into the moonlight?  Scorning her own weakness, she went
forth, and perceived that a negro slave was waiting in the passage, with a wax light, which
he held between her face and his own, and regarded her, as she thought, with an ugly expression
of merriment.  Lifting his torch on high, the slave lighted her down the staircase, and undid
the portal of the mansion.  The young clergyman of the town had just ascended the steps, and
bowing to the lady, passed in without a word.

Years, many years rolled on; the world seemed new again, so much older was it grown, since
the night when those pale girls had clasped their hands across the bosom of the corpse.  In
the interval, a lonely woman had passed from youth to extreme age, and was known by all the
town, as the  "Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet."  A taint of insanity had affected her whole
life, but so quiet, sad, and gentle, so utterly free from violence, that she was suffered to
pursue her harmless fantasies, unmolested by the world, with whose business or pleasures she
had naught to do.  She dwelt alone, and never came into the daylight, except to follow funerals.
Whenever a corpse was borne along the street, in sunshine, rain, or snow, whether a pompous
train, of the rich and proud, thronged after it, or few and humble were the mourners, behind
them came the lonely woman, in a long, white garment, which the people called her shroud. 
She took no place among the kindred or the friends, but stood at the door to hear the funeral
prayer, and walked in the rear of the procession, as one whose earthly charge it was to haunt
the house of mourning, and be the shadow of affliction, and see that the dead were duly buried.
So long had this been her custom, that the inhabitants of the town deemed her a part of every
funeral, as much as the coffin pall, or the very corpse itself, and augured ill of the sinner's
destiny, unless the  "Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet" came gliding, like a ghost, behind.  Once,
it is said, she affrighted a bridal party, with her pale presence, appearing suddenly in the
illuminated hall, just as the priest was uniting a false maid to a wealthy man, before her
lover had been dead a year. Evil was the omen to that marriage!  Sometimes she stole forth
by moonlight, and visited the graves of venerable Integrity, and wedded Love, and virgin Innocence,
and every spot where the ashes of a kind and faithful heart were mouldering. Over the hillocks
of those favored dead would she stretch out her arms, with a gesture, as if she were scattering
seeds; and many believed that she brought them from the garden of Paradise; for the graves,
which she had visited, were green beneath the snow, and covered with sweet flowers from April
to November.  Her blessing was better than a holy verse upon the tombstone.  Thus wore away
her long, sad, peaceful, and fantastic life, till few were so old as she, and the people of
later generations wondered how the dead had ever been buried, or mourners had endured their
grief, without the  "Old Maid in the Winding Sheet."

Still, years went on, and still she followed funerals, and was not yet summoned to her own
festival of death.  One afternoon, the great street of the town was all alive with business
and bustle, though the sun now gilded only the upper half of the church-spire, having left
the housetops and loftiest trees in shadow.  The scene was cheerful and animated, in spite
of the sombre shade between the high brick buildings.  Here were pompous merchants, in white
wigs and laced velvet; the bronzed faces of sea-captains; the foreign garb and air of Spanish
creoles; and the disdainful port of natives of Old England; all contrasted with the rough aspect
of one or two hack settlers, negotiating sales of timber, from forests where axe had never
sounded. Sometimes a lady passed, swelling roundly forth in an embroidered petticoat, balancing
her steps in high-heeled shoes, and courtesying, with lofty grace, to the punctilious obeisances
of the gentlemen.  The life of the town seemed to have its very centre not far from an old
mansion, that stood somewhat back from the pavement, surrounded by neglected grass, with a
strange air of loneliness, rather deepened than dispelled by the throng so near it. It was not Response.

It
was an uneasy morning, when I to the Deputy Minister of War, this
consideration submitted, and asked him for permission to any number
of chemical factories to build to leave, and that is as many as can
afford the chemicals.

The Minister of War, excellence of change, in his spacious, quiet
and determined Art was once the authorization to negotiate with the
chemical industry.

Technically, the highest degree valuable preparatory work had been done. Excellence Fischer
and Privy partners had very kindly largest in the problem of Salpetergewinnung Volume processed
and the chemical industry was not at all surprised to front the question was asked to provide
these enterprises.

The construction of a large number of factories has been agreed, and the chemist, bold, confident
and with confidence and were received on the condition that the factories had to be in place,
before I was able to send them the contract from the Reich Treasury approved. The Factories were under
cover, even before the contract was signed, and that was around for Christmas. The Stickstoffabrikation
had become a German production, a world problem was solved, the most
serious technical risk of war was averted.

But while these factories rose, the news came from the front: we do not need more than 10 tons,
but 16, not 16 but 21, not 21 but 27, and here I want to also not to show proportions, do not say to
which multiple the demands of the front increases. But this much may be suggested: that the original
Cover had decreased to a fraction. If we had only begun with the construction, become available
as these conditions were, two or three months later, it would Meanwhile, a serious occurred, precisely
the time when the Galician breakthrough an enormous effort demanded
ammunition.

Were and remained the chemical fabrications, especially the nitric acid plants, the most important
of our newly created manufacturing, so still have a number of extensive Production facilities are
established to assist them. Metal refining and recovery facilities were built, the mining production has
been lifted, electrolytic and electrothermal Works were created and
expanded, partly through direct intervention by the War Raw Materials
Department, partly through the mediation of commodity companies.

Amid this activity are a further object was given the fact the Wehrbarmachung
the country was dealing only indirectly, but from general economic
reasons, could not refuse and which could be solved by not so different
from us.  Perhaps
her garment might have been polluted even by an infant's touch; perhaps her kiss would have
been death to the sweet boy, within a year.

"She is but a shadow," whispered the superstitious.   "The child put forth his arms and could
not grasp her robe!"

The wonder was increased, when the Old Maid passed beneath the porch of the deserted mansion,
ascended the moss-covered steps, lifted the iron knocker, and gave three raps.  The people
could only conjecture, that some old remembrance, troubling her bewildered brain, had impelled
the poor woman hither to visit the friends of her youth; all gone from their home, long since
and forever, unless their ghosts still haunted it,--fit company for the  "Old Maid in the Winding-
Sheet."  An elderly man approached the steps, and reverently uncovering his gray locks, essayed
to explain the matter.

"None, Madam," said he, "have dwelt in this house these fifteen years agone,--no, not since
the death of old Colonel Fenwicke, whose funeral you may remember to have followed.  His heirs
being ill-agreed among themselves, have let the mansion-house go to ruin."

The Old Maid looked slowly round, with a slight gesture of one hand, and a finger of the other
upon her lip, appearing more shadow-like than ever, in the obscurity of the porch.  But again
she lifted the hammer, and gave, this time, a single rap.  Could it be that a footstep was
now heard, coming down the staircase of the old mansion, which all conceived to have been so
long untenanted?  Slowly, feebly, yet heavily, like the pace of an aged and infirm person,
the step approached, more distinct on every downward stair, till it reached the portal.  The
bar fell on the inside; the door was opened.  One upward glance, towards the church-spire,
whence the sunshine had just faded, was the last that the people saw of the "Old Maid in the
Winding- Sheet."

"Who undid the door?" asked many.

This question, owing to the depth of shadow beneath the porch, no one could satisfactorily
answer.  Two or three aged men, while protesting against an inference, which might be drawn,
affirmed that the person within was a negro, and bore a singular resemblance to old Caesar,
formerly a slave in the house, but freed by death some thirty years before.

"Her summons has waked up a servant of the old family," said one, half seriously.

"Let us wait here," replied another.   "More guests will knock at the door, anon.  But the
gate of the graveyard should be thrown open!"

Twilight had overspread the town, before the crowd began to separate, or the comments on this
incident were exhausted.  One after another was wending his way homeward, when a coach--no
common spectacle in those days--drove slowly into the street.  It was an old-fashioned equipage,
hanging close to the ground, with arms on the panels, a footman behind, and a grave, corpulent
coachman seated high in front, --the whole giving an idea of solemn state and dignity. But an effect the distance
of time we will experience already: this is a new care management, a new conception of the commodity.
Much will remain replaces what was thought to be irreplaceable; in many places, where other related
metals, we will use local, from some foreign products, such as Chile saltpeter, we will in future,
I hope to be spared remain, our foreign sulfur limit will no longer need to cross. Our economy
is independent in every sense, because we no longer depend on the goodwill of the seller still at the
mercy of our creditors that we have to pay, and it also in the hand, has canceled by raising its tariff
wall, the payment of our goods.

These considerations will be of increasing importance in economic life to a new term Lead to the concept
of commodity protection. The decidedly non economic areas are us close, whether by tariff protection,
whether by nationalist intrigues, the more more attention we devote our payment and trade balance.
Now we self-indulgent and unnecessary abroad, so we have to involuntarily pay by exports, and
this involuntary export can be continuously loss-making because it is free to our neighbors, our
finished products to charge through protective tariffs and devalue, while their raw materials
have to let in freely. This creates a new mercantilism, not the export to increase beyond measure,
but to keep them productive. We have previously known to protect of the product, the so-called
protective tariff, a question of raw material protection has until now not passed.
  The decipherer of the coat of arms had ventured up the
lowest step, and shrinking back immediately, pale and tremulous, affirmed that the torch was
held by the very image of old Caesar.

"But, such a hideous grin," added he, "was never seen on the face of mortal man, black or white!
It will haunt me till my dying day."

Meantime, the coach had wheeled round, with a prodigious clatter on the pavement, and rumbled
up the street, disappearing in the twilight, while the ear still tracked its course.  Scarcely
was it gone, when the people began to question whether the coach and attendants, the ancient
lady, the spectre of old Caesar, and the Old Maid herself, were not all a strangely combined
delusion, with some dark purport in its mystery.  The whole town was astir, so that, instead
of dispersing, the crowd continually increased, and stood gazing up at the windows of the mansion,
now silvered by the brightening moon.  The elders, glad to indulge the narrative propensity
of age, told of the long-faded splendor of the family, the entertainments they had given, and
the guests, the greatest of the land, and even titled and noble ones from abroad, who had passed
beneath that portal.  These graphic reminiscences seemed to call up the ghosts of those to
whom they referred.  So strong was the impression, on some of the more imaginative hearers,
that two or three were seized with trembling fits, at one and the same moment, protesting that
they had distinctly heard three other raps of the iron knocker.

"Impossible!" exclaimed others.   "See!  The moon shines beneath the porch, and shows every
part of it, except in the narrow shade of that pillar.  There is no one there!" But
as it was the beginning of the war, we must now laboriously first recall. The first six months no one
had any idea what we were actually there. The Diet, which met in November 1914, looked at us
as a trade body that to ensure that the shoe leather and had the wool would be cheaper, that
there are issues negotiated, which depended on war and peace, victory and defeat, no one was familiar
and to this day still is not all.
  But,
at once, the whole multitude started, and each man beheld his own terror painted in the faces
of all the rest.

"What an awful thing is this!" cried they.

A shriek, too fearfully distinct for doubt, had been heard within the mansion, breaking forth
suddenly, and succeeded by a deep stillness, as if a heart had burst in giving it utterance.
The people knew not whether to fly from the very sight of the house, or to rush trembling in,
and search out the strange mystery. But with many other authorities was
to negotiate and to work alongside.

The very fact had difficulty buy that the problem was never known.
Even today is indeed the German people believe that the supply of
raw materials goes by itself.
He was a reverend figure, with long, white hair upon his shoulders, a white beard upon his
breast, and a back so bent over his staff, that he seemed to be looking downward, continually,
as if to choose a proper grave for his weary frame. We had
to take care that new production methods were found and developed where the old technology was
not sufficient.

And now the fourth way: it had to difficult to obtain by other materials,
easy to find be replaced.

"Verily," said the old gentleman, "it will be fitting that I enter the mansion-house of the
worthy Colonel Fenwicke, lest any harm should have befallen that true Christian woman, whom
ye call the 'Old Maid in the Winding-Sheet.'"

Behold, then, the venerable clergyman ascending the steps of the mansion, with a torch-bearer
behind him.  It was the elderly man, who had spoken to the Old Maid, and the same who had afterwards
explained the shield of arms, and recognized the features of the negro.  Like their predecessors,
they gave three raps, with the iron hammer.

"Old Caesar cometh not," observed the priest.  "Well, I wot, he no longer doth service in this
mansion."

"Assuredly, then, it was something worse, in old Caesar's likeness!" said the other adventurer.

"Be it as God wills," answered the clergyman.  "See! my strength, though it be much decayed,
hath sufficed to open this heavy door. Let us enter, and pass up the staircase."

Here occurred a singular exemplification of the dreamy state of a very old man's mind. For
a few substances exceeded the coverage of the then existing, since far exceeded War needs, the period
of a year, almost without exception it was significantly lower.

The group of substances that we manage, seemed initially small, excluded included was the area
of ​​food and liquid fuels, was all what was called war commodity. The official definition
was: "those substances which the National defense service and which are not sufficiently continuous
or recovered within the country can ". recognized as inadequate were initially little more
than a dozen, and later increased the number of week to week and
was in the end it's a good hundred.

What we had now was little, but it provided a basis.

We knew now: so and this is how the coverage of the country, and gradually the task was in all its
outlines, of course not yet produced its solution.

Four paths were possible and had to be followed to transform the economy in the country, to force
the defense relationship.
First, all the resources of the country inevitably had to be, nothing
more could voluntarily and follow his own caprice. Every substance,
every half-product flow was such that nothing in the way of luxury
or incidental demand came, her path had been contained by force are
such that they automatically resulted in end products and use those
forms that the army needed.  The clergyman pointed his cane to the carved oak panel of the latter.

"Within that chamber," observed he, "a whole lifetime since, did I sit by the death-bed of
a goodly young man, who, being now at the last gasp--"

Apparently, there was some powerful excitement in the ideas which had now flashed across his
mind.  He snatched the torch from his companion's hand, and threw open the door with such sudden
violence, that the flame was extinguished, leaving them no other light than the moonbeams,
which fell through two windows into the spacious chamber. It was sufficient to discover all
that could be known.  In a high- hacked oaken arm-chair, upright, with her hands clasped across
her breast, and her head thrown back, sat the  "Old Maid in the Winding- Sheet."  The stately
dame had fallen on her knees, with her forehead on the holy knees of the Old Maid, one hand
upon the floor, and the other pressed convulsively against her heart.  It clutched a lock of
hair, once sable, now discolored with a greenish mould. This, gentlemen, is a badge of honor German
industry, which must never be forgotten! Neither France nor England, nor the United States,
nor any of the enemy and semi-hostile nations makes after that.
  But it was only the
shadow of a tattered curtain, waving betwixt the dead face and the moonlight.

"Both dead!" said the venerable man.  "Then who shall divulge the secret?  Methinks it glimmers
to and fro in my mind, like the light and shadow across the Old Maid's face.  And now't is gone!"

