That was what he wanted, to merge himself into the great silent poetry of the Catholic life.
The Protestant creed could never give him what he wanted. There was too much tolerance, too
much sheltering of the individuality; he wanted a complete, an utter surrender. He passed the
entire holidays in the world of ideas; he read nothing but poetry, or what dealt with poetry.
He tried to recapture the wonderful full-blooded enjoyment of that last summer term. But for
all that he found material thoughts stealing in on his most sacred moments. A chance phrase,
a word even, and there would suddenly rise before him the spectre of his own failure. And he
was forced to realise that as yet he was unfit to lay down the imperious burden of his own
personality. The hold of life was too strong. He still wanted the praise of the populace, "the
triumph and the roses and the wine."

Well, there was one more term; let him make the most of the roses while he could. In this state
of indecision he returned for what was to be his last term.

       *       *       *       *       *

A big programme of First Eleven matches had been arranged; and the first game was at Downside
on the second Saturday of the term. Fernhurst won with ease, and Gordon knocked up forty-two.
The match was over before tea; and, as the side had not to go back till six o'clock, they spent
the interval in walking round the grounds.

Few schools are situated in more perfect surroundings than Downside. There are wide gardens
and flowery walks. Rhododendrons were flaming red and white, a hedge of gorse shone gold. It
was a Roman Catholic school, and now and then a noble Calvary rose out of the flowers. The
Abbey watched over the place. Monks in long black robes moved about slowly, magisterially.
Gordon went up to one of them and spoke to him shyly.

"A wonderful place this, sir."

"Yes; it is the right sort of place to train a boy in. Surround him with beautiful things,
make a real perception of beauty the beacon light of his life, when he is young, and he will
be safe. For there are so many things that are beautiful and poisonous like iridescent fungi,
and it is so hard to differentiate between the true and the false. But everything here is so
pure and unworldly that I think we manage to show our boys what is the highest. We fail at
times, but on the whole we succeed."

He looked so kind, so sympathetic, this old man, that Gordon felt bound to pour out his feelings
to him.

"You know, sir," he said, "I have awfully wanted to talk to a Roman Catholic whom I thought
would understand me, and especially one like yourself, who has willingly abandoned all his
own ambitions. There is something very fine in the complete surrender of your Church. In ours
there is so much room for difference of opinion, so much toleration of various doctrines. There
seems so little certainty. In Rome there seems no doubt at all."

"Yes, the Catholic Faith is a very beautiful creed," said the old man; "we are misjudged; we
are called narrow-minded and bigoted. They say we want to make everyone conform to one type,
and that we bind them with chains. But, my son, it is not with chains that the Holy Church
binds her children. It is with loving arms thrown round them. The Church loves her children
far too much to wish them to leave her even for a minute. She wants them entirely, hers and
hers alone. Perhaps you will say that is selfish; but I do not think so. It is the great far-seeing
love that sees what is best for its own. Love is nearly always right. But if you wish to keep
your own views, to worship God in your own way, well, there are other creeds. Protestantism,
it seems to me, lets out its followers, as it were, on strings and lets them wander about a
little, laugh and pluck flowers, in the certainty that at the last she can draw her own to
her. Well, that is one way of serving God, and in the Kingdom of God there is no right or wrong
way, provided the service be sincere. There are many roads to heaven. Our road is one of an
infinite love that draws everything to itself. There are other ways; but that is ours."

"But supposing there was a person," said Gordon, "who really wanted to surrender himself to
that perfect love, but who found the call of the world too strong. You know, sir, I should
give anything to be as you, safe and secure. But I know I should break away; the world would
call me again. I should return, but when I give myself, I want to give myself wholly, unconditionally.
I want there to be no doubt; and I want to come to-day."

"I will tell you a story," said the monk. "I was a boy here years ago, and there was one boy,
brilliant at games and work, whom I admired very much, and by the time I had myself reached
a high position he came back to us as a monk. I used to live in a little village, just behind
that hill, and I used to ask him down to supper sometimes. And I remember one day my father
said to him: 'You know, I envy you a lot.'

"'Why?' he asked.

"'Well,' said my father, 'as far as this world is concerned you are well provided for. You
live in beautiful surroundings, comfortable and happy. And for the next world, as far as we
know, no one could be more certain of happiness than you.'

"The young monk looked at my father rather curiously, and said:

"'Perhaps so; but when I look round at your happy little family and your home interests, I
think we have given up a good deal.'

"And only a year later that young man ran away with a girl in the village, and he was excommunicated
from the Church. And yet I expect that the whole time he really loved our life best; only the
call of worldly things was too strong; and he was too weak."

"Then what will be the end of me?" asked Gordon.

"Wait, my son. I waited a long time before I knew for certain that God's way was best, and
that the things men worshipped were vain. Those are the most fortunate, perhaps, who can see
the truth at once, and go out into the world spreading the truth by the influence of a blameless
life. But we are not all so strong as that. It takes a long time for us to be quite certain;
and even then we have to come and shut ourselves away from the world. We are too weak. But
we have our place. And in the end you, too, I expect, will so probe the happiness and grief
of the world and find them of little value, and when you have, you will find the Holy Church
waiting for you. It does not matter when or how you come; only you must bring yourself wholly.
It is not so very much we ask of you. And we give with so infinite a prodigality."

"Yes," said Gordon, "I suppose there will be rest at last."

That evening as he sat discussing the cricket match with Morgan the captain of the school came
in and gave him his "Firsts." Morgan was profuse with congratulations. Everyone seemed pleased.
It was the hour he had long pictured in his imagination--the hour when he should get his coveted
"Firsts." He himself had wanted them so badly; but somehow or other they did not mean very
much just now.

CHAPTER V: THE THINGS THAT SEEM

But the heart of youth is essentially fickle; and Gordon's lambent spirit, which had for some
time almost ceased to strive for anything, suddenly swept round to the other extreme, and was
filled with the desire to reassert itself at all costs. Suddenly, almost without realising
it, Gordon was fired with the wish to finish his school career strongly, not to give way before
adversity, but to end as he had begun. He would be the Ulysses of Tennyson, not of Plato. "Though
much is taken, much abides ... 'tis not too late to seek a newer world." ... Like a tiger he
looked round, growling for his prey, and his opportunity was not slow in coming.

Ferrers was sitting in his study one afternoon, talking very despondently about the general
atmosphere at Fernhurst.

"It is not what I had hoped for," he said; "in fact, it is quite the reverse. The young masters
are gone, the bloods are gone. The new leaders are not sure of their feet, and these old pedants
have taken their chance of getting back their old power. And the whole school is discontented,
fed up; no keenness anywhere. The masters tell them: 'If you aren't good at games you'll be
useless in the trenches.' Wretched boys begin to believe them. They think they are wrong, when
really they are just beginning to see the light. They are beginning to look at games as they
are. There's no glory attached to them now--no true victories--glamour is all removed. They
see games as they are, see the things they have been worshipping all these years. But the masters
tell them games are right, they are wrong; it is their duty to do as others did before them.
Oh, I wish we could smash those cracked red spectacles through which every Public School boy
is forced to look at life."

"But can't we, sir?"

"It would be no good; they wouldn't believe you. I am getting sick. For years I have been shouting
out, and trying to prove to them what's wrong. They won't believe. They are blind, and it is
the masters' fault, curse them. There they sit, talking and doing nothing. I begin to worship
that man, I forget his name, who said: 'Those who can, do--those who can't, teach.' It sums
up our modern education. It is all hypocrisy and show."

"But, sir," said Gordon, "we can't do much, but let's do what we can. Now, when the glamour
has fallen off athleticism, let's show the school what wretched things they have been serving
so long. If we can in any way put a check on this nonsense now, if in Fernhurst only, we shall
be doing something. After the war we shall have a fine Fifteen winning matches, and the school
will feel its feet. We must stop it now--now, when there is no glamour, when the school is
tired of endless 'uppers,' and sick of the whole business. Now's the time."

"Yes; but how? This sort of thing doesn't happen in a night."

"I know; but we can sow the seeds now. The Stoics is the thing. We can have a debate on the
'Value of Athletics,' and, heavens! I bet the whole House will vote against them. The House
is sick of it all. We'll carry the motion. We'll get the best men to speak. We'll give sound
arguments. Then we'll have formed a precedent. It will appear in the school magazine that the
Stoics, the representative society of Fernhurst thought, has decided that the blind worship
of games is harmful. It will make the school think. It's a start, sir, it's a start."

"You are right, Caruthers, you are right. We'll flutter the Philistine dovecots."

Gordon had not the slightest doubt about the success of the scheme. He himself was at the very
summit of his power. He had been making scores for the Eleven out of all proportion to his
skill; he was almost certain for the batting cup. His influence was not to be discounted. He
could get the House to vote as he wanted; he was sure of it. He told Davenport of the scheme,
and he also was enthusiastic.

"By Jove! that's excellent. It's about time the school realised that caps and pots are not
the alpha and omega of our existence."

The air was full of the din of onset.

Nearly the whole House attended the meeting, and the outhouses rolled up in good numbers, more
out of curiosity than anything else. They thought the whole thing rather silly. There had been
a debate more than two years back on "whether games should be compulsory." Only six had voted
against compulsion. "The Bull" remembered this, and came to the debate, strong in his faith
in the past. He wanted to see this upstart Ferrers squashed.

Ferrers himself opened the discussion with typical exuberance.

"How much longer," he finished, "are we going to waste our time, our energy, our force on kicking
a football? We have no strength for anything else. And all the time, while Germany has been
plotting against us, piling up armaments, we have been cheering on Chelsea and West Ham United.
Look at the result. We were not prepared, we are only just getting ready now. And why? Because
we had wasted our time on trivial things, instead of things that mattered; and unless we turn
away from all this truck, trash and cant about athleticism, England is not going to stand for
anything worth having."

He sat down amid tempestuous applause. The audience were really excited. They had gradually
grown sick of games during the last two terms, and now apparently they had the best authority
for doing so. Everyone likes being congratulated.

The opposition suffered in having Burgess to support them. We have heard of him before. Years
had not altered him much. He was the same conceited, self-righteous puppet as of old. People
got tired of listening to him. There was a sound of shuffling, a window began to bang with
unnecessary noise. He sat down to an apathetic recognition.

Davenport then made a very biting speech against games.

"The Bull" was surprised to see him speaking on Ferrer's side. He was in the Second Fifteen,
and a very useful outside.

"Whatever we may have done before the war," he cried, "and we did many foolish things, it is
quite obvious that now this worship of sport must cease. Let us hope it is not revived. We
are sent here to be educated--that is, to have our minds trained; instead of that, we have
our bodies developed, our minds starved. We play footer in the afternoon, we have gym. at all
hours of the day, and other experiments in voluntary compulsion, such as puntabouts after breakfast.
The result is we work at our play, and play at our work...." He elaborated the scheme in an
amusing way. There was a lot of laughter. "The Bull" looked fierce. Rudd, who had for a "rag"
insisted on speaking for the opposition, discoursed on the value of "mens sana in corpore sano."
Everyone shrieked with laughter.

He finished up thus:

"Well, look at me. I am the hardest-working fellow in the school." A roar of laughter went
up. Rudd had nearly been deprived of his position of school prefect for doing so little work.
"I am also a fine athlete. To-day I clean bowled two people on the pick-up, and hit a splendid
four over short-slip's head. I am what I am because of our excellent system of work and play.
Look at me, I say, and vote for athleticism."

Buffoonery is often more powerful than the truest oratory.

The motion was put before the House.

A lot of people spoke. All in favour of the motion. It was great fun watching "the Bull's"
face grow gradually darker. Morgan said that only fools and Philistines cared for games. They
were amusing to pass an afternoon with, and because one had to have exercise, but that was all.

Gordon waited till near the end, then he got up.

"I must first congratulate everyone on the broadminded view they have taken of this important
question; and I think it is an infallible proof that the days of athletic domination are ended.
For, after all, is it any wonder that clear-thinking men like A.C. Benson pull our system to
pieces, when we have to own that for the last twenty years at least the only thing Public School
boys have cared about is games? And with such a belief they go out into life, to find the important
posts seized by men who have really worked. No one works at a Public School. People who do
are despised. If they happen to be good at games as well, they are tolerated. It is a condemnation
of the whole system. And, after all, what are games? Merely a form of exercise; we have got
to keep our bodies healthy, because, as Mr Rudd so wisely put it, a healthy mind means a healthy
body. Games were invented because people wanted to enjoy their exercise. We all enjoy games.
I love cricket; but that does not make me worship it. I like eating; but I don't make a god
of a chocolate éclair. We can like a thing without bowing down to it, and that's how we have
got to treat games. Some fool said 'the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of
Eton'; and a fool he was, too. Games don't win battles, but brains do, and brains aren't trained
on the footer field. It is time we realised that; and I think from the way the speaking has
gone to-night, the school is beginning to understand. Now is the chance to show that you think
so. There are no good athletes in the school to-day, the Eleven's rotten and the Fifteen is
worse. Men like Lovelace major were almost worth worshipping, because they were men; they made
athletics appear grand, because they were such glorious creatures themselves; but there are
none of that sort here now. We can see games as they really are without any false mist of sentiment,
and we can see that for years we have been worshipping something utterly wrong."

Gordon's speech really made an impression. After all, he was a blood, one of the best all-round
athletes in the school, and if he thought like that, there must be something in what so many
people were saying.

The question was put to the vote, and was carried by an enormous majority.

"The Bull" looked for a moment at the crowd of faces that had spurned the things he admired,
looked as one who saw nothing, turned on his heel and strode out of the room.

"Well, we won! Glorious!" said Ferrers.

"Yes," said Gordon, "'we have lit this day a candle that, by the grace of God, shall never
be put out'!"

He went down to hall, flushed with triumph. After all, there were some compensations for everything;
but he could not remove the feeling that out of all the change and turmoil of his Fernhurst
career he had retained nothing tangible. He had written his name upon water; he had as yet
found nothing that would accompany him to the end of his journey. He knew that his friendship
for Morcombe would lead to nothing: very few school friendships last more than a year or so
after one or other has left. He thought of Byron's line: "And friendships were formed too romantic
to last." It was too true, he had yet to find his real ideal. He was about to begin the serious
battle of life. He was standing on the threshold. The night was black before him; he had no
beacon fire to lead him. He dimly perceived that beauty was the goal to which he was striving.
But he had only a vague comprehension of its meaning. He had no philosophy. Doubtless in the
end the Roman Church, the mother of wanderers, would take him to her breast. But that was a
long way off yet, and he wished to bring himself to the final surrender, strong and clean-hearted,
not a vessel broken on the back-wash of existence. And yet he had no true guide for the years
that stretched before him. This last episode of the debate seemed to bring it home to him more
clearly. His life had so far been composed of isolated triumphs and isolated defeats, which
had not yet so combined one with another as to form a bedrock of experience which would serve
as a standard for future judgments. He had made merry, careless of what the next day would
bring. He had fought with "the Bull"; and in the struggle he had achieved some things, and
failed to achieve more. He had at one time prayed for the long contention to cease; at another
he had laughed in the face of his enemy, flushed with the joy of battle. Gazing back on his
past, he seemed to stand as a spectator, watching a person who was himself and yet not himself,
going through a life of many varied experiences, now plunging in the mud, now soaring to the
heights. But the incidents only affected him in a dull, subconscious manner. He had learnt
nothing from them. His school days would soon be over, and yet he felt as though he were beginning
life all over again. He had found nothing that could stand the wear of time and chance.

But still there remained a few more weeks of Fernhurst; whatever happened, he swore that he
would finish as befitted a king. "Samson would quit himself like Samson." There would be time
enough for doubts and introspection when it was all over, when for the last time the familiar
eight-forty swept him out of Fernhurst's life for ever. At present it was his to leave behind
him a name that would survive a little while, "nor all glut the devouring grave." It should
be remembered of him that during his day of power he had never once given way, had stood his
ground, had never known the poignancy of the "second-best."

Until now Gordon had never really quarrelled with anyone in his own house. All his encounters
had been with outhouse men or "the Bull": he might have helped to make the House feel independent
of the school, but he had always aimed at the unity of the House's aim. It was a pity that
his last contest should have been with the head of his own house.

Rudd was a bad head; there could be no doubt about that. His dormitory made him apple-pie beds,
and soaked his candle in water, so that it would not light. The day-room ragged him mercilessly.
Gordon had never minded. In comparison with Rudd's weakness his own strength shone the more.
It made him so essentially the big power in the House. But things reached a limit shortly after
half term, when Rudd tried to drag him in to help him in his troubles, and shelter behind the
rest of the prefects.

It all arose from a most "footling" source. Rudd was taking hall, and the usual music hall
performance was in full swing. Bray had asked to borrow some ink, and having once gained a
pretext for walking about, was dancing up and down the floor singing What would the Seaside
be without the Ladies? Everyone was, of course, talking. Now a certain Stockbrew, imagining
himself a poet, immortalised the occasion with the following stirring lyric:--

    "Ruddy-doodle went to town
    In his little suit of brown,
    As he could not find his purse
    He cried aloud, 'Oh, where's my nurse?'"

Like the famous quatrain The Purple Cow, this poem immediately achieved a success totally out
of proportion to its merits. It was passed slowly down the table. Finally it reached Bray.

"Ah, Rudd," he said, "I believe this is meant for you."

Rudd read it, and flushed a dusky red.

"Who wrote this?"

Proudly the author claimed his work.

"Well--er--let me see," said Rudd: "it is er--gross impertinence. Come and see me after breakfast
to-morrow."

The poet sat down, and his friends showered condolences on him; Bray recommenced his wanderings.

That night in second hall Rudd called a prefects' meeting to discuss the affair. He pointed
out that it was gross insolence to a prefect, and that a prefects' beating was the recognised
punishment for such an offence. Gordon protested vehemently.

"But, damn it all, Rudd, if you are such a weak-kneed ass as to be ragged by a fool like Stockbrew,
you jolly well oughtn't to be head of the House. And, by the way, we haven't heard this masterpiece
of satire read out yet."

"I don't think there's any need," said Rudd.

"Well, I think there is," said Gordon. "I am not going to see a kid beaten for an unknown piece
of cheek. Read the thing out!"

With many blushes Rudd read it out.

"Ah, jolly suitable, too," said Foster. "What you want is a nurse. Good lord, man, can't you
look after yourself in hall. Jolly ignominious, isn't it, having to call up a lot of prefects
to back you up? Fine example to the rest of the House, isn't it?"

"Well," stammered Rudd, "I don't pretend to be a strong prefect."

"You certainly aren't," said Foster.

"That's beside the point," said Rudd. "I have been cheeked by Stockbrew, and I am a prefect.
The punishment for that is a prefects' beating. There'll be a pre.'s meeting here to-morrow
at eight, and if you have anything to grouse about, go to the Chief."

He flounced out of the room like a heroine of melodrama.

"I don't think we'll go to Chief," said Gordon, "he would be utterly fed up. But I am jolly
well not going to be made an ass of by Rudd. Think what fools we shall look trotting about
on Rudd's apron strings like policemen after a cook."

"Well, what can we do?" said Davenport.

"Do? Why, make Rudd look a bigger ass than we. We have got to give this lad a pre.'s beating.
There's no way out of it. We have got to. But if we let the House know about this, a crowd
will collect; Rudd will go first and make two fairly effective shots. We shall then proceed
in rotation. We will just tap him; the crowd will roar with laughter; it will be damned amusing,
and Rudd will look a most sanguinary ass."

"I see," said Foster. "Hat's off to the man with the brain."

"But is it quite the game?" suggested Davenport, a stickler for etiquette.

"Is it the game for Rudd to drag us in to back him up? In this world, unfortunately, two blacks
invariably make a white."

"I suppose it's all right," said Davenport.

No one else made any objection. Foster and Gordon usually got their own way. The prefects dispersed.
Gordon went to tell Morgan the glad tidings. The news was all round the House in a few minutes.
Rudd was generally regarded as a priceless fool; it was sure to be good sport.

Then next morning Stockbrew presented himself at Rudd's study. He was terribly overcome at
the sight of so formidable a gathering. He wished he had padded. No one had told him of what
was to happen. It would have spoilt the situation.

The prefects sat in chairs round the room; Rudd, terribly nervous, was perched on the table.
He delivered as short a lecture as possible on the sacredness of the prefectorial dignity and
the insignificance of the day-room frequenter.

In a procession they moved to the V. A green. Stockbrew led, Rudd followed, cane in hand. It
was all very impressive. Round the V. A green runs a stone path; a good many people were clustered
there; there were faces in the V. B class-room just opposite; in the library on the right;
even in the Sixth Form class-room on the left.

"Quite an audience for this degrading business," sighed Foster.

"'Butchered to make a Roman holiday,'" said Davenport, who loved a stale quotation. Stockbrew
bent over the chain that ran round two sides of the green. Rudd delivered two fairly accurate
shots. Stockbrew stirred uncomfortably. He had dim recollections of Claremont reading a poem
by Mrs Browning on "the great God Pan" and how cruel it was to "make a poet out of a man!"
He saw her meaning now. Then the farce began.

Gordon went up, carefully arranged the victim's coat, stepped back as if preparing a brutal
assault, and then flicked him twice. A roar of laughter broke from all sides. Rudd shifted
uneasily on his feet.

Foster went up and did the same, then Davenport, then the rest of the prefects. The very walls
seemed shrieking with laughter.

Flushing dark red, Rudd strode across to his study. Such dignity as he had ever had, had been
taken from him. Everyone had seen his ignominy.

The next time he took hall a pandemonium broke out such as never had been heard before. A game
of cricket was played with a tennis ball and a Liddell and Scott; Gordon crossing the courts
heard it, and he decided to clinch his victory. He went down to the day-room and walked straight
in. There was instant silence. Gordon took no notice of Rudd whatever.

"Look here, you men, you are making a filthy row down here. I heard it right across the courts.
The Chief might hear it easily. You have got to shut up. If I hear any more noise I shall give
every man two hundred lines; so shut up."

There was comparative peace after this. Rudd had ceased to count in House politics. To all
intents and purposes Gordon was head of the House, and the House regarded him as such. Rudd
was generally known as the "nominal head." Gordon had got his power, and for the next six weeks
he decided to enjoy it to the full. On the cricket field, although not quite keeping to the
promise or the luck of May, he did well enough to make the batting cup quite certain. There
was now no fear of any defeat clouding his last days. He had ceased to worry himself with analysing
his emotions. He let himself enjoy the hour of happiness while he still had it, and did not
trouble to question himself how long it would last. He had passed through the time of blind
depression during the Easter term when he had seen hope after hope go down: he had come through
somehow. It did not matter with what inward searchings of heart. Outwardly he had been a success.
Now his outward triumph was even more pronounced. As a few weeks before he had been too prone
to look at the inward to the total exclusion of the outward aspect of things, now he began
to consider only the things that seem. It was the swing of the pendulum. It remained for him
to find the media via.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last days of June and the early weeks of July passed calmly. In the mornings he lounged
in his study, reading novels, or talking to Morgan. The afternoons went by like a cavalcade,
with the white figures on the cricket ground, the drowsy atmosphere of the pavilion, the shadows
lengthening across the ground. Then the evenings came, with Morcombe sitting in his study getting
helped in his work, or talking about books and people and ideas. The House matches began. A-K
senior had an average side, but no one expected them to do very much, and it was a surprise
when, by beating Christy's and Claremont's, they qualified to meet an exceptionally strong
Buller's side in the final. Foster and Gordon looked forward to their last match at Fernhurst
with the cheerful knowledge that they had no chance of winning, and that therefore they had
nothing to fear of disappointment. It would be a jolly friendly game to finish up with. The
days raced past so quickly that it came as a shock to Gordon to discover that his last week,
with its examinations and threatening form lists, had really come.

"I shall be sorry to leave, you know," he said to Foster. "I am not at all looking forward
to the army."

"Last Christmas I would have given anything to get out of this place," Foster answered. "But
now, my Lord; I wish I was coming back. We've had a good time this term."

The first three days of that last week it rained incessantly. The Senior final was postponed
till the Thursday. Examinations took their desultory course. Gordon had often in the past slacked
in exams, but never had he treated them in quite the same indifferent way as he did this term.
He had no intention of spoiling his last days by working. Every morning the Sixth went in for
a three hours' paper, at nine-thirty. Before eleven Gordon had always shown up his papers,
and strolled out of the room to read Paradise Lost in his study. In the afternoon he usually
managed to toss off the two hours' exam. in three quarters of an hour.

He was "finishing in style." On Thursday the rain stopped at last, and the Senior final began.

"Foster," said Gordon, as the two walked down to the field, "I believe ours is one of the very
worst sides that ever got into the final. There are two Firsts, you and I. Collins was tried
for the Colts two years ago. There are eight others."

"Oh, you forget Bray, a fine, free bat with an unorthodox style. But ... I believe he made
fourteen on a House game the other day."

"Yes, that is a recommendation, of course, but somehow I don't think we shall win."

"Win!" echoed Foster. "We shall be lucky if we avoid an innings defeat."

And this supposition proved still more likely when half-an-hour later the House, having won
the toss, had lost three wickets for as many runs. Jack Whitaker, now captain of Buller's,
had gone on to bowl first from the end nearest the National Schools. In his first over he clean
bowled Gordon, and in the next he got Foster leg before, and Bradford caught in the slips.

"I foresee," said Collins, "that we shall spend most of this game fielding. A poor way of occupying
our last few days."

"That's where I score," said Gordon; "the wicket-keeper has no running to do, and, besides,
I rather enjoy a game in which there is nothing to lose, no anxiety or anything. It is a peaceful
end to a turgid career.... Oh, well hit!"

Bray had just lifted a length ball off the middle stump over short-leg's head.

"That's the sort of cricket I like," said Gordon; "a splendid contempt for all laws and regulations.
Heavens! there he goes again!"

A lucky snick flew over the slips to the boundary.

"This is something like," said Foster, and prepared to enjoy himself.

And certainly Bray's cricket was entertaining. He treated every ball the same; he stepped straight
down the pitch with his left foot, raised his bat in the direction of point and then, as the
ball was bowled, he pivoted himself violently on his left foot and, going through a complete
half-circle, finished, facing the wicket-keeper, with both feet outside the crease, but his
bat well over the line. The chief attraction of this gymnastic feat was the unexpectedness
of it all. No one knew where the ball would go if it was hit. Once when he timed his shot a
little late he caught the ball just as it was passing him and drove it flying past the wicket-keeper's
head to where long-stop would have been. The fielding side was always glad to see Bray's back,
and it usually did not have to wait long. But to-day he bore a charmed life. He was missed
at point once, twice he gave a chance of being stumped, the ball shaved his wickets times innumerable.
But nearly every other ball he managed to hit somewhere. In the pavilion the School House rocked
with laughter.

At the other end Davenham poked about scoring singles here and there. The score crept up. Amid
cheers in which laughter was blended, the fifty went up. Then Bray, in a particularly gallant
effort to steer a ball well outside the off stump round to short-leg, hit, all three wickets
flying out of the ground. It was a suitable end to an unusual innings.

He received a royal welcome in the pavilion.

"Bray, my son," said Gordon, "you are a sportsman. Come to the tuck-shop and have a drink.
Nellie, mix this gentleman an ice and a lemonade, and put it down to my account. Thank you.
Ah, there's Collins. Good luck, Collins; keep your head."

Two minutes later Collins returned to the pavilion with a downcast face.

"The damned thing broke," he said, as if he considered breaks illegal in House matches.

The rest of the side played in the usual light-hearted School House spirit. There were some
fine hits made, and some scandalous ones, too. It was like a cinematograph show. Everyone slammed
about; the Buller's men missed catches galore. Davenport was missed four times in making fourteen.
Somehow the score reached respectable heights. Byes helped considerably. The final score was
one hundred and twenty.

"And now," said Collins, "we have got to field for two hours to-day. To-morrow is not a half,
so we shall have to field all the time; we sha'n't get a knock till after roll on Saturday.
Five hours' fielding. Damn!"

"And it will do you a lot of good, too," said Foster. "Are you all ready, House? Come on then."

A-K Senior filed out into the field. A loud cheer rose from the crowd. The House was amazingly
partisan. Whether a House side is losing by an innings or winning by two hundred runs, it is
always sure of the same reception when it goes on to the field from its own men. The light
had grown rather bad and Foster began bowling with the trees at his back, so as to hide his
delivery. At the other end Bradford was to bowl.

The start was sensational.

Buller's sent in Crampin and Mitchell first, two hefty footballers, with strong wrists and
no science, who had run up some big scores in the preliminary rounds.

Foster ran up to bowl. Crampin had a terrific swipe. The ball turned from the bat. The bat
only just touched it.

"How's that?" roared Gordon.

The finger went up. A ripple of clapping ran along the side of the ground.

"You stick to that," said Collins, "and we shall get them out by to-morrow night."

"Dry up," said Gordon ironically. "Can't you see we are going to win?... Man in!"

Jack Whitaker came in. He was far and away the most stylish bat in the school, and had scored
a lot of runs during the season. He faced the bowling confidently; he had played Foster a hundred
times at the nets, and knew his tricks well. He played through the over with ease. The last
ball he placed in front of short-leg for a single.

Bradford went on to bowl. He was a House match class of bowler. No idea of length, or direction,
only an indefatigable energy and considerable pace. His first ball was a long hop wide on the
off. Whitaker banged it past point for four.

The next ball was a full pitch to leg. Collins had to run about a hundred yards to rescue it
from the road. Bradford looked fierce. He took a longer run than usual, rushed up to the wicket,
and plunged the ball in with all his force. A howl of untuneful applause rose from under the
trees. The ball not only happened to be straight, but was also a yorker. Whitaker's middle
stump fell flat.

There are times when a panic seizes the very best side, and for the next hour and a half the
House had the pleasant experience of watching an unusually strong Buller side rabbit out before
a very moderate attack. Buller's side contained four First and two Second Eleven colours, to
say nothing of three Colts caps. And yet by six o'clock the whole team was dismissed for eighty-three.
There was nothing to account for the rot. Foster and Bradford bowled unchanged. Bradford took
six of the wickets, four clean bowled. It was incomprehensible.

"I can't understand it," said Gordon at tea. "Bradford was bowling the most utter drivel half
the time, I would have given anything to have been batting. And you were not bowling at your
best, you know, Foster."

"I am well aware of that; but, heavens! it was sheer joy. Look at old Collins, down there,
beaming at the thought of not having to field to-morrow."

"It's all right," mumbled Collins from a huge cup of tea.

"By Jove! wouldn't it be gorgeous if we could win this match, and finish up by beating the
Buller crowd at their own game?" said Gordon. "Damn it all, I don't see why we shouldn't. What
we have done once we can do again. They are a better side, I know, but we'll have a damned
good shot at winning."

Of course Buller's laughed at the whole thing.

"It's really rather funny," they said. "But, of course, we are in absolutely no danger of losing.
We couldn't wreck like that again; and, what's more, we shouldn't let an ass like Bray make
so many runs again. We are quite safe!"

The School House kept quiet. They were not going to shout their hopes all over the school.
It would look so bad if they got thoroughly beaten in the end. But in the studies and dormitories
that night there was only one thought in all those minds--that victory was possible.

The next day it rained the whole time. The courts were flooded with water, the branches dripped
with a tired languor. Gordon polished off two exams with masterly speed, and returned to his study.

Saturday morning broke grey and wet. It rained spasmodically till mid-day, and then cleared
up. With a sigh of relief Gordon walked up the big schoolroom to show up the last piece of
work that he would do at Fernhurst. For a last composition it was hardly creditable. A long
paper on the OEdipus Tyrannus was finished in under an hour. But Gordon had ceased to care
for academic distinctions. As he closed the door of the big school, and went out into the cloisters,
he realised that a certain stage of his journey was over and done with for ever.

By lunch-time all signs of rain had cleared off, and the sun shone down on an absolutely sodden
ground. Runs would be very hard to get. A lead of thirty-seven meant a lot on such a wicket.
An atmosphere of nervous expectation overhung the House. Everyone was glad when the meal was over.

The match began directly after lunch. There would be very likely some difficulty in finishing
the game that day. Collins and Foster went in first. Gordon had asked to be kept back till
later. The start was dull. Foster was taking no risks, and Collins seemed unable to time the
ball at all, which was luckily always off the wicket. Ten went up after quarter of an hour's play.

And then Foster, reaching out to play forward, slipped on the wet grass and was stumped. Three
balls later Bradford was caught and bowled. It was Gordon's turn to go in. Nearly everything
depended on him. If he failed, the whole side would probably collapse. The tail had done miracles
in the first innings; but it could not be expected to do the same again.

Gordon took guard nervously. He resolved to play himself in carefully, but he never could resist
the temptation to have a "go." The first ball was well up, just outside the off stump. Gordon
stepped across and let fly. He had forgotten how slow the pitch was. The ball hung; he was
much too soon; the ball sailed straight up into the air! Point and cover-point both ran for
it. "Crampin!" yelled out Whitaker. Neither heard; they crashed into one another; the ball
fell with a dull thud. The House gave a gasp of relief.

It was a costly mistake. For when once he got his eye in, Gordon was very hard to get out.
And, moreover, he was one of the few people who could get runs quickly on a really wet wicket,
for the simple reason that nearly all his shots went into the air; and so he did not find the
sodden ground making off drives which should have resulted in fours only realise singles.

That afternoon Gordon found the bowling perfectly simple. At the other end wickets fell slowly,
but he himself was scoring fast. A hard shot over cover-point sent up his individual fifty,
and two overs later he drove a length ball on the off stump past mid on to the boundary, and
the hundred went up amid cheers.

"It is a mystery to me," said Foster, "how that man Caruthers ever gets a run at all; he has
no defence, and hits straight across everything."

"Don't let's worry about that," said Collins; "sufficient be it that he is hitting these Buller's
swine all over the place. Oh, good shot!"

A half-volley had landed first bounce among the masters sitting under the wall. The umpire
signalled six.

One hundred and fifty went up.

And then Gordon mistimed a slow yorker, and was clean bowled for eighty-five.

He was received with a storm of clapping; the House lined up cheering as he ran in between
the ropes.

"Gratters! Well done!" shouted Foster. "That's a damned fine knock to finish your Fernhurst
cricket days with! Well done!"

Everyone came up and congratulated him. It was a proud moment, in some ways the proudest of
his whole career.

A few minutes later another burst of clapping signalled the end of the innings. The side had
made one hundred and eighty-six. Buller's were left with two hundred and twenty-three to win.
Anything might happen. Just before five Foster led the House on to the field.

The next hour and a half was fraught with delirious happiness and excitement. Foster bowled
magnificently, Bradford managed to keep a length; the whole side fielded splendidly. Wicket
after wicket fell. Victory became a certainty. Gloom descended over the Buller's side. Round
the pavilion infants with magenta hat ribbons yelled themselves hoarse. It was one of those
occasions in which eternity seems compressed into an hour. Half-past six came. No one went
up to tea, everyone was waiting for the end. At last it came. Whitaker, who alone had been
able to withstand the School House attack, over-reached himself, Gordon gathered the ball quickly,
the bails flew off. The umpire's hand rose. A wild shriek rose from the crowd. Gordon's last
game at Fernhurst was over; his last triumph had come; at last "Samson had quit himself like
Samson." Through the lines of shrieking juniors the team passed into the pavilion. Gordon began
to collect his things, to pack up his bag. He gave it to a fag to carry up.

Collins and Foster and Gordon walked up from the field arm in arm.

"Well, if we stopped on here for a hundred years," said Foster, "we shouldn't find a better
hour to leave."

"Yes, the end has made up for any disappointments on the way. It will be a long time before
we have as wonderful a time again," Gordon said, as he passed in the sunset, for the last time,
through the gate of the cricket-field which had been, for him, the place of so many happy hours.

CHAPTER VI: THE TAPESTRY COMPLETED

To Gordon this match seemed the ideal rounding off of his career. There had been no anti-climax,
with him the best had come at the end. He would not have to look back and compare his last
term unfavourably with the glories of yester year. He had done what he set out to do, he would
step rose-garlanded out of the lighted room, in the flush of his success. It was exactly as
he had wished. Perfectly satisfied, he lay back in his chair, with his feet on the table, too
tired to do anything, merely thinking.

There was a knock at the door.

"Come in."

Rudd came in nervously with a House list in his hand.

"The Chief wants a list of the trains people are going home by."

"Eight-forty to Waterloo."

"Thanks."

Rudd walked towards the door, but as he put his hand on the knob he turned round.

"Well," he began falteringly, "I suppose you are jolly proud of yourself now, aren't you?"

"What the hell do you mean?"

"You know quite well. You have done damned well according to your own point of view. You have
aimed at getting the supreme power, and you have got it all right." Rudd had lost his nervousness
now, he was shifting his feet a little, but the sentences flowed easily. "I am a weak head,
I know, and you have managed to smash me quite easily. It wasn't very hard, although you pretend
you are the devil of a fellow."

"What on earth are you driving at?"

"Oh, not much; only I want to show you how much you have done for the House. You are big, and
you're strong, and all that; you've broken up any authority I ever had, and you've taken it
yourself. And, of course, as long as you are here, it's all very well. But what about when
you have left? You are too self-centred to see anybody else's point of view. Après moi le deluge;
that's your philosophy. As long as you yourself prosper, you don't care a damn what happens
to anyone else, and you have prospered right enough. You'll have left a name behind you, all
right."

"I don't want to have to kick you out, Rudd," said Gordon.

"I don't care what you say; I'm going to finish what I have got to say. You'll probably not
understand, you are too short-sighted. But what sort of future have you left the House? Order
was kept all right when you were here; you are strong. But when you have left, who is going
to take your place? Foster could have, but he's leaving. Davenport's leaving too, so's Collins.
The new prefects will be weak. At the best they would have had a hard time. But probably the
prefectorial dignity would have been sufficient, if you hadn't smashed it up. You say 'personality'
must rule, but there is not so much personality flying about. We weak men have got to shelter
ourselves behind the strength of a system, and you have smashed that. No one is going to obey
me next term. They know I am incapable; but they wouldn't have found it out but for you. That's
what you've done this term. You yourself have succeeded, but your success has meant the ruin
of the House for at least a year, that's what you have done. And I expect you are jolly proud
of yourself, too. You only care for yourself."

Rudd finished exhausted, and stood there gasping. Gordon looked straight at him for a second
or so, then picked up a book and began to read; Rudd shifted from foot to foot for a minute
and then moved out quickly.

What an ass the man was, thought Gordon. The beaten man always tries to make the victor's defeat
seem less. It is all he has to do. Damn it all, a man has to look after himself in this world;
everyone was struggling to get to the top, and the weak had to be knocked out of the way.

Then Foster came in aglow with excitement, and the two went up to the tuck-shop and ate numerous
ices, and made a great row, and knocked over many chairs, and threw sugar about. Rudd was clean
forgotten, as they rolled back triumphantly, just as the roll bell was ringing. Work was over.
Gordon wandered round the studies, talking to everyone; in second hall they had a celebration
supper for the whole side. They had two huge pies, a ham, countless éclairs; they sang songs,
laughed and told anecdotes. They finished with the school Carmen, and drank to the House's
future success. Laughing and singing, they at last made for the dormitories.

But when the lights went out, and silence descended on the dormitory, Gordon began to think
of his conversation with Rudd; and, as he thought, there came over him again the fierce longing
to get to the heart of things and to see life as it was, shorn of its coverings. Looking at
his career from the spectator's point of view, even Christy would have to own that it had been
eminently successful. He had been captain of the House; no one had blamed him that the House
had failed to win their matches; no one can make bricks without straw; what did matter was
that he had always stood up for the House's rights, he had never given way to "the Bull," he
had been strong. This last term he had been head of the House in all but name; he had won the
batting cup; and he had finished by playing a big part in the biggest triumph that the House
had achieved for several years. In all outward aspects he had been a great success.

But Gordon had had enough of outward aspects. He wanted to get to the root of things, to get
on terms of equality with life; he was tired of seeing everything through flickering glass.
What had he actually done?

And when he began to sum up his achievements, he was forced to own that most of them were athletic
triumphs, and athletics meant little to him. He had long ceased to worship them. Because a
man could make a big score in a House match, it did not mean that he was in any way fit for
the battle of life; and what else had he done? He had carried on guerrilla warfare with "the
Bull." It had never come to a real head; so little does. Most things are left unaccomplished
in the end; and what had he gained by this contest, and what had been the use of it? "The Bull"
was one of the few really fine masters in the school. He was a man, and towered above the puny
pettiness of Rogers; he was the "noblest Roman of them all," yet Gordon had spent a whole year
fighting against a man whom he at heart admired. It was, of course, the inevitable clash of
two egotisms; but that did not alter the facts. He had been wasting himself fighting against
a fine man, when there were so many rotten traditions and useless customs that ought to be
attacked; but he had let them alone. The only abuse he had attacked was the worship of sport,
and he began to wonder whether it had been worth it. Might it not have been better to have
let the school go on believing in its gods a little longer? He had broken down a false god,
but had he given the School anything to worship in its stead? Better a false god than no god
at all.

Rudd had been right. He had smashed through a garden of dandelions. He had rooted up flowers
and weeds indiscriminately. He had done nothing wonderful; and he had left desolation behind
him. Nothing would grow for some time in the plot he had ruined. And yet he was "a great success,"
the world said.

"Only the superficial do not judge by appearances," Wilde had said, mocking at society; and
he had been right. Life was a sham, a mass of muddled evolutions; the world was too slack to
find out the truth, or perhaps it was afraid to discover it. For the truth was not pleasant.
Gordon did not know what it was; all he saw was that life was built of shams, that no one worshipped
anything but the god of things that seem. He lay supine, cursing at the darkness.

The next morning he woke with the same feeling of depression; he looked round his dormitory.
There were seven of them, all perfectly happy and contented. And why? Merely because they looked
at the surface, because they did not take the trouble to find out what was true and what was
false. They were happy in their ignorance, and he, too, could be happy if he just took things
as they were. His last few weeks had been so full of joy, because he had not taken the trouble
to think. Thought was the cause of unhappiness. And yet he had to think. He hated half measures.
For a certain space he had to live on earth, and he wanted to discover what life really was.
What lay beyond the grave he did not know, "sufficient for the day were the day's evil things."
But he felt that he must try and plumb the depth or shallowness of the day's interests. He
could not bear the idea of a contentment purchased by cowardice.

Yet he had learn from Tester that the soul is man's most sacred possession, and must not be
shown to the crowd; that he must always mask his true emotions, except in the company of those
who could understand them.

So he went down to breakfast telling Collins the latest joke from The London Mail. On his way
back to the studies he ran into a fag.

"Caruthers, Chief wants to see you in his study."

Gordon found the Chief waiting for him.

"You are not busy, I hope, are you, Caruthers?"

"Oh no, sir."

"Well, at any rate, I shall keep you only for a minute. I just wanted to speak to you for a
second before you left. Everything is such a rush on the last day. I suppose you have found
that authority brings a good many difficulties with it, and I have heard that you have had
a row or two. But I think you have done very well on the whole. I did not say very much about
it at the time, but about two years ago I had very grave doubts about how you were going to
turn out; I must say that I was very nervous about making you a prefect. But, still, I think
your last year has really developed your character, and you certainly have had the wisdom and
luck, shall we say, like the host at the wedding, to keep your best till last."

The Chief smiled the smile that was peculiarly his own, and peculiarly winning. "I must not
keep you any longer. But I did want to take this opportunity of telling you that I have been
pleased with you this term, though perhaps my praise sounds weak beside the applause you got
after your innings. At any rate, I wish you the very best of luck."

With mixed feelings Gordon left the study. He valued the Chief's opinion amazingly, but he
could not help knowing that he did not deserve it. He felt as though he had deceived the Chief.
If only the Chief knew how he had plunged along in his own way, an egotist, an iconoclast!
And then suddenly there came over him the shock of discovery, that everything in life was so
distorted and hidden by superficial coverings, that even the wisest failed to discern between
the true and the false.

He was able to see himself as he was, to realise the littleness of his own performances. Yet
the Chief who, if anyone "saw life steadily, and saw it whole," who was always more ready to
judge an action by the intention than by the result--the Chief himself had not really seen
how far his achievements were below his possibilities. And if the Chief was at times deceived
by the superficial, how was he, a self-willed, blundering boy, ever likely to be able to come
to a true understanding?

He shrugged. There still remained a few hours in which to enjoy the fruits of a success which,
if it meant little to him, conveyed a good deal to the world outside. And power is very sweet.

He tried to fling himself into the light-hearted atmosphere of rejoicing in which the whole
House was revelling, but he found it impossible. His laughter was forced; yet his friends noticed
no change in him; he was to them just as he had always been.

Even Morcombe, who was to him more than other friends, had failed to understand.

"It must be rather decent to be leaving in the way you are," he said, as they were sitting
in the games study before evening chapel. "I doubt if you stopped on if you would ever quite
equal the appropriateness of that last innings."

"Yes," said Gordon, with a conscious irony, "it's certainly dramatic."

What use was it to try and show him what he was thinking? He had learnt that it is better to
leave illusions untouched.

Often in the past he had tried to imagine what a last chapel service must be like. The subject
has been done to death by the novelist. In every school story he had read, the hero had always
felt the same emotions: contentment with work well done, sorrow at leaving a well-loved place.
He had wondered whether he would want to cry; and if so, whether he would be able to stop it.
He had looked inquiringly in the faces of those who were leaving and had never read anything
very new. Some were enigmas; some looked glad in a way that they were going to begin a life
so full of possibilities. Some vaguely realised that they had reached the height of their success
at nineteen.

But now that his time had come, his thoughts were very different from what he had imagined.
He felt the sorrow that is inevitable to anyone who is putting a stage of his life clean out
of sight behind him; but for all that he had come to the conclusion that he was not really
sad at leaving. Fernhurst was for him too full of ghosts; so many dreams were buried there.
His feelings were mixed. He felt himself that he had failed, but he knew that he was hailed
a success. He half wished that in the light of experience he could go through his four years
again; but if he did, he saw that in outward show, at any rate, he could never eclipse the
glory that was his for the moment. He remembered that sermon over three years back in which
the Chief had asked each boy to imagine himself passing his last hours at school. "How will
it feel," the Chief had said, "if you have to look back and think only of shattered hopes and
bright unfulfilled promises?... To the pathos of human sorrow there is no need to add the pathos
of failure." What was he to think?--he whose career had so curiously mingled failure and success.

The service slowly drew to its end. The final hymn was shouted by small boys, happy at the
thought of seven weeks' holiday. The organ boomed out God Save the King; there was a moment's
silence. Then the school poured out into the cloisters. Gordon hardly realised his last service
was over. He had been so long a spectator of these partings that he could not grasp the fact
that he was himself a participator in them.

He felt very tired, and was glad when bed-time came. He experienced the same sensations that
he had known as a new boy--a physical and mental weariness that longed for the ending of the day.

For a few hours silence hung round the ghostly Abbey; then, tremendous in the east, Gordon's
last whole day at Fernhurst dawned.

As far as the Sixth were concerned, work was over. The rest of the school had to go in for
two hours for the rep. exam. The drowsy atmosphere of a hot summer morning overhung everything.
The studies were very quiet. Gordon took a deck-chair on to the Sixth Form green and settled
down to read Endymion.

But he found it impossible to concentrate his thoughts on anything but the riotous wave of
introspection that was flooding his brain. He soon gave up the attempt; and putting down the
book, he lay back, his hands behind his head, gazing at the great grey Abbey opposite him,
while through his brain ran Gilbert Cannan's words: "Life is round the corner." He had failed.
He knew he had failed. But where and why? Then, as he began to question himself, suddenly he
saw it all clearly. He had failed because he had set out to gain only the things that the world
valued. He had sought power, and he had gained it; he had asked for praise, and he had won
it; he had fought, and he had conquered. But at the moment of his triumph he had realised the
vanity of all such success; when he had come to probe it to the root, he had found it shallow.
For all the things that the world valued were shallow and without depth, because the world
never looked below the surface. He had found no continuing city; his house was built upon sand.

The truth flashed in on him; he knew now that as long as he was content to take the world's
view of anything, he was bound to meet with disillusionment. He would have to sift everything
in the sieve of his own experience. The judgment of others would be of no avail. He would be
an iconoclast. The fact that the world said a thing was beautiful or ugly, and had to be treated
as such, must mean nothing to him. He would search for himself, he would plumb the depths,
if needs be, in search of the true ideal which was lurking somewhere in the dark. Tester had
been right. It was useless to look back to the past for guidance. He had a few hours back asked
for some fixed standard by which to judge the false from the true. There were no standards
except a man's own experience. Here at Fernhurst he had failed to find anything, because he
had sought for the wrong things; he had at once accepted the crowd's statement for the truth.
Now it would be different. In his haste he had said that Fernhurst had taught him nothing.
He had been wrong. It had taught him what many took years to learn, and sometimes never learnt
at all. It had taught him to rely upon himself. In the future he would take his courage in
his hands, and work out his own salvation on the hard hill-road of experience.

The school was just pouring out from the rep. exam. He heard Foster shouting across the courts.

"Caruthers, you slacker, come up to the tuck-shop."

"Right-o!" he yelled back; and racing across the green jumped the railings, and went laughing
up to the tuck-shop.

"I say, Foster, let's have a big tea this afternoon. We had a supper for the A-K side on Saturday.
Let's have the rest up to-day."

Gordon flushed with excitement at what lay before him. He wanted everyone else to laugh with
him too. An enormous tea was ordered. Men from the outhouses came down, the tables were drawn
up on the V. A green, and the afternoon went by in a whirl of happiness. They rolled out arm
in arm for the prize-giving. For the last time Gordon saw the whole staff sitting on "their
dais serene." He looked at the row of faces. There was Rogers puffed out with pride; Christy,
pharisee and humbug, superbly satisfied with himself. Finnemore sat in the background, a pale
grey shadow, that had been too weak to get to grips with life at all. Trundle nursed his chin,
twittering in a haze of indecision. Ferrers was fidgeting about, impatient of delay. He, at
any rate, was not being misled by outside things; if he was misled by anything, it was by the
impulse of his own feverish temperament. He was the splendid rebel leader of forlorn hopes,
the survival of those

    "Lonely antagonists of destiny
    That went down scornful before many spears."

There, again, was Macdonald, with the same benign smile that time could not change. As he looked
at him, Gordon thought that he at least could not have been deceived, but had too kind, too
wide a heart to disillusion the young. And, above all, sat Buller, a second Garibaldi, with
a heart of gold, an indomitable energy, a splendid sincerity, the most loyal of Fernhurst's
sons. And as Gordon looked his last at his old foe, he felt that "the Bull" was so essentially
big, so strong, so noble of heart, that it hardly mattered what he worshipped. There hung round
him no false trapping of the trickster; sincerity was the keynote of his life. Gordon would
search in vain, perhaps, for a brighter lodestar. As two vessels that have journeyed a little
way together down a river, on taking their different courses at the ocean mouth, signal one
another "good luck," so Gordon from the depth of his heart wished "the Bull" farewell and Godspeed.

At last the form lists were read out. A titter rewarded Gordon's position of facile ultimus.
The cups were distributed. Gordon went up for the batting cups, his own individual one, and
the challenge one that went to the House. Foster went up for the Senior cricket; it was a veritable
School House triumph. The Chief made his usual good-bye speech, kindly, hopeful, encouraging.
The head of the school shouted "Three cheers for the masters!"--the gates swept open, the cloisters
were filled with hurrying feet.

The last hours passed all too swiftly. In a far corner of the gallery Gordon sat with Morgan,
listening to his last school concert. Opposite the choir in their white shirts, and brushed-back
hair, sang the school songs inseparable from the end of the school year. There was the summer
song, the "Godspeed to those that go," the poignant Valete:

    "We shall watch you here in our peaceful cloister,
      Faring onward, some to renown, to fortune,
    Some to failure--none if your hearts are loyal--
                None to dishonour."

To Gordon every word brought back with it a flood of memories. He could see himself, the small
boy, reading those verses for the first time before he went to Fernhurst, ignorant of what
lay before him. How soon he had changed his fresh innocency! How soon his bright gold had grown
dim! Then he saw himself this time last year, listening to those words with an unbounded confidence,
certain that he at least would never achieve failure. Visions in the twilight! And what was
the dawn to bring?

The Latin Carmen began. The school stood on their seats and howled it out. Then came Auld Lang
Syne. They clasped hands, swaying in chorus. The echoes of God Save the King shook the timbered
ceiling, someone was shouting "Three cheers for the visitors!"; the school surged towards the
door; Gordon found his feet on the small stone stairway. He looked back once at the warm lights;
the honour-boards that would never bear his name; the choir still in their places; the visitors
putting on their coats and wraps. Then the stream moved on; the picture faded out; and from
the courts came the noise of motors crunching on the gravel.

As Gordon walked into the cool air he ran into Ferrers.

"Good-bye, sir."

"You are off, are you? Well, good luck. Write to me in the hols; I'll look you up if I'm in
town. If not, cheer-o!"

He was gone in a second.

    "'So some time token the last of all our evenings
    Crowneth memorially the last of all our days ...'"

Gordon murmured to himself as he walked slowly down to the dining hall....

The next morning there was the inevitable bustle, the tipping of the servants, the good-byes,
the promises to write at least twice during the holidays, the promises which were never kept.

"Here, Bamford, I say," shouted Gordon, "take my bag down to the station."

Bamford looked almost surly at being told to do anything on that last day. "Authority forgets
a dying king," thought Gordon. His power could not have been so great if it began to wane almost
before he had gone.

The eight-forty came into the station, snorting and puffing.

Gordon secured a corner seat, and leant out of the window, shaking hands with everyone he could
see.

"You'll be down next term, won't you?" yelled Morgan, bursting as ever with good will.

"I expect so," said Gordon.

But in his heart of hearts he knew that he would never come back. He would be afraid lest he
should find the glamour with which he had surrounded the grey studies and green walks of Fernhurst
merely a mist of sentiment that would fade away. So many things that he had believed in he
had found untrue. But he wanted to keep fresh in his mind the memory of Fernhurst as he had
last seen it, beautiful and golden in the morning sun.

The train slowly steamed out. Hands were waved, handkerchiefs fluttered. Slowly the Abbey turned
from ochre-brown to blue, till it was hidden out of sight.

Gordon sank back into his seat. He was on the threshold of life; and he stepped out into the
sunlight with a smile, which, though it might be a little cynical, as if he had been disillusioned,
held none the less the quiet confidence of a wayfarer who knew what lay before him, and felt
himself well equipped and fortified "for the long littleness of life."