The Seed of the Toc-Toc Birds

By Francis Flagg

[Sidenote: Little did Prof. Reubens suspect what his atom-tampering would set loose upon the
world.]

Talbot had been working that day, far up in the Catalinas, looking over some mining prospects
for his company, and was returning to the Mountain View Hotel in Oracle when, from the mouth
of an abandoned shaft some distance back of that town, he saw a strange object emerge.

"Hello," he said to Manuel, his young Mexican assistant, "what the devil can that be?"

Manuel crossed himself swiftly.

"Dios!" he exclaimed, "but it is a queer bird, señor."

Queer, it certainly was, and of a species Talbot had never before laid eyes on. The bird stood
on the crumbling rim of the mining shaft and regarded him with golden eyes. Its body was as
large as that of a buzzard, and its head had a flat, reptilian look, unpleasant to see. Nor
was that the only odd thing. The feathers glittered metallically, like blued copper, and a
streak of glistening silver outlined both wings.

Marveling greatly, and deciding that the bird must be some rare kind escaped from a zoo, or
a stray from tropical lands much further south, Talbot advanced cautiously, but the bird viewed
his approach with unconcern. Ten feet from it he stopped uneasily. The strange fowl's intent
look, its utter immobility, somewhat disconcerted him.

"Look out, señor," warned Manuel.

Involuntarily, Talbot stepped back. If he had possessed a rifle he would have shot the bird,
but neither Manuel nor himself was armed. Suddenly--he had looked away for a moment--the bird
was gone. Clutching a short miner's pick-ax, and a little ashamed of his momentary timidity,
he strode to the edge of the abandoned shaft and peered down. There was nothing to see; only
rotting joists of wood, crumbling earth for a few feet, and then darkness.

He pondered for a moment. This was the old Wiley claim. He knew it well. The shaft went down
for over two hundred feet, and there were several lateral workings, one of which tunneled back
into the hills for a considerable distance. The mine had been a bonanza back in the days when
Oracle boomed, but the last ore had been taken out in 1905, and for twenty-seven years it had
lain deserted. Manuel came up beside him and leaned over.

"What is that?" he questioned.

Talbot heard it himself, a faint rumbling sound, like the rhythmic throb of machinery. Mystified,
he gazed blankly at Manuel. Of course it was impossible. What could functioning machinery be
doing at the bottom of an abandoned hole in the ground? And where there were no signs of human
activity to account for the phenomenon? A more forsaken looking place it would be hard to imagine.
Not that the surrounding country wasn't ruggedly beautiful and grand; the hills were covered
with live-oak, yucca grass, chulla, manzanita, and starred with the white blossoms of wild
thistle. But this locality was remote from human habitation, and lonely.

Could it be, Talbot wondered, the strange bird making that noise? Or perhaps some animal? The
noise sounded like nothing any creature, furred or feathered, could make, but, of course, that
must be the explanation. However, it would be dark within the hour, with Oracle still two miles
distant, so he turned reluctantly away, Manuel thwacking the burros from the grazing they had
found. But that was not to be the end of the odd experience. Just before the trail swung over
the next rise, Talbot glanced back. There, perching on the rim of the abandoned mining shaft,
were not one but two of the strange birds. As if cognizant of his backward glance, they napped
their gleaming, metallic wings, although they did not rise, and gave voice to what could only
be their natural harsh cries, measured and, somehow, sinister.

"Toc-toc, toc-toc."

Talbot went to bed determined to investigate the old Wiley claim the next day, but in the morning
an urgent telegram called him and Manuel to Phoenix, and so the matter was necessarily postponed.
Moreover, on mature reflection, he decided that there was nothing much to investigate. The
days went by, the matter slipped his mind, and he had almost forgotten the incident.

It was an Indian who first brought news of the jungle to Oracle. His name was John Redpath
and he wasn't the average person's idea of an Indian at all. He wore store clothes and a wide-brimmed
hat, and spoke English with the colloquial ease of one whose native language it was. It was
ten o'clock in the morning, the hour when people gathered at the local store and post-office
to gossip and get their mail, when he came driving into town in his Ford, his terrified wife
and three children crowded into the back seat.

"What's the matter, John?" asked Silby, the constable.

"Matter?" said Redpath. "I'll tell you what's the matter."

He held the attention of the crowd which now began flocking around him. "You know me, Silby;
I'm not easily frightened; but what's happened at my place has me scared stiff."

He pulled out a handkerchief and mopped his brow.

"When we went to bed last night, everything looked as usual; but this morning...."

He paused.

"Something over night had grown up in my pasture. Don't ask me what it is. The whole hillside
was filled with it. I went to the pasture to milk my goats--that's some distance from the house
and over a rise; you know how rugged my land is--and there was the stuff, acres of it, twenty,
thirty feet tall, like--like nothing I had ever seen before. And Silby"--his voice was suddenly
low--"I could see it growing."

At this remarkable statement, everyone in sound of his voice gaped with astonishment. Had it
been any other Indian they would have said he was drunk--but not John Redpath. He didn't drink.

"Growing?" echoed Silby stupidly.

"Yes. The damn stuff was growing. But it wasn't that which stampeded me out of there. It was
the globe."

"The globe!" said Silby, more mystified than ever.

"It was floating over the growing stuff, like a black balloon. Just over my place the balloon
began to sift down a shower of pebbles. Like beans, they were; seeds, rather; for when they
hit the ground they started to sprout."

"Sprout?" The constable was capable of nothing more than an echo.

"I'm telling you the truth," continued Redpath. "Incredibly fast. I had barely time to crank
up the car and get out of there. I never would have done it if the strange growth hadn't left
the way clear from the garage to the road. Silby, I had the devil of a time getting the wife
and kids out of the house. When I looked back after going a quarter of a mile the house had
disappeared under a tangled mass."

There was no time for anyone to question John Redpath further. Even as he finished speaking
a large automobile dashed up and out tumbled a well-dressed and portly red-faced stranger.

"What the devil's the matter with the road above here? Funniest thing I ever saw. The road
to Mount Lemmon's blocked. My family," he said inconsequentially, "is at Mount Lemmon for the
summer and I want to get through to them."

Blocked! The crowd stared at him wonderingly. John Redpath threw in his clutch. "So long,"
he said. "I've a brother in Tucson, and I'm going to his place until this blows over."

As he left Oracle, John Redpath noticed several dark globes drifting down on it from the hills.

The first inkling the outside world had of the terrible tragedy that was happening at Oracle
came over the phone to Tucson while John Redpath was still en route to that city.

"Hello, hello! Is this the police station? Silby speaking. Silby, town constable at Oracle.
For God's sake, send us help! We're being attacked. Yes, attacked from the air. By strange
aircraft, round globes, discharging--oh, I don't know what it is; only it grows when it hits
the earth. Yes, grows. Oracle is hemmed in. And there are the birds--b-i-r-d-s, birds----"

There was a stifled cry, the voice suddenly ceased, and the wire went dead.

"My God!" said the chief of police of Tucson, "somebody's raving." He lost no time in communicating
with the sheriff's office and sending out his men. They soon returned, white-faced and shaken.

"Chief," said the officer in charge of the party, "you know where the road to Oracle switches
off the main highway? Well, it's impassable, covered with stuff a hundred feet high."

The chief stared. "Are you crazy?"

"No. Listen. It's the queerest growth you ever saw. Not like vegetation at all. More like twisted
metal...."

But now the city began to seethe with excitement. Farmers and their families flocked in from
the Seep Springs district, and from Jayhnes, telling weird tales of drifting globes and encroaching
jungle. The Southern Pacific announced that traffic northward was disrupted. Extras appeared
on the streets with shrieking headlines. Everything was in confusion.

A flyer from the local airport flew over Oracle and announced on his return that he could see
no signs of the town, that its immediate vicinity was buried under an incredibly tall and tangled
mass of vegetation. "From the air it looks like giant stalks of spaghetti, twisted, fantastic,"
was his description. He went on to say that he noticed quite a few drifting globes and large
birds with black, glistening wings, but these offered no hindrance to his flight.

Now the wires hummed with the startling news. All the world was informed of the tragedy. The
great cities of the nation stood aghast. An aroused Washington dispatched orders for the aerial
forces of the country to proceed to Arizona without delay. The governor of Arizona mobilized
the state militia. All border patrol officers proceeded to the area affected. And yet in the
face of what was happening they were powerless to do a thing.

At two o'clock of the day following the wiping out of Oracle, the first black globes approached
Tucson. They floated down from the north, skirting the granite ridges and foothills of the
Catalinas, and were met with a withering hail of lead from anti-aircraft guns, and burst, scattering
wide their contents. When some three hours later the first squadron of the air fleet came to
earth on the landing field a few miles south of the city, the northern environs of Tucson,
all the area the other side of Speedway, and running east and west as far as the eye could
see, was a monstrous jungle a hundred or more feet tall--and still growing.

Terrified residents fled before the uncanny invasion. People congested the streets. Thousands
fled from the city in automobiles, and thousands of others thronged the railroad station and
bus-line offices seeking for transportation. Rumors ran from lip to lip that Russia was attacking
the United States with a newly invented and deadly method of warfare; that it wasn't Russia
but Japan, China, England, Germany, a coalition of European and Asiatic powers.

Frantically, the city officials wired railroad companies to send in emergency trains. The mayor
appealed to the citizens to be quiet and orderly, not to give way to panic, that everything
was being done to insure their safety. Hastily deputized bodies of men were set to patrolling
streets and guarding property. Later, martial law was established. The south side of Speedway
rapidly assumed the appearance of an armed camp. At the landing field Flight Commander Burns
refueled his ships and interviewed the flyer who had flown over Oracle. That worthy shook his head.

"You're going out to fight, Commander," he said, "but God knows what. So far we have been unable
to detect any human agency back of those globes. They just drift in, irrespective of how the
wind is blowing. So far our only defense has been to shoot them down, but that does little
good; it only helps to broadcast their seed. Then, too, the globes shot down have never been
examined. Why? Because where they hit a jungle springs up. Sometimes they burst of their own
accord. One or two of them got by us in the darkness last night, despite our searchlights,
and overwhelmed a company of National Guards."

The flight commander was puzzled.

"Look here," he said, "those globes don't just materialize out of thin air. There must be a
base from which they operate. Undoubtedly an enemy is lurking in those mountains." He got up
decisively. "If it is humanly possible to locate and destroy that enemy, we shall do it."

Flying in perfect formation, the bombing squadron clove the air. Looking down, the observers
could see the gigantic and mysterious jungle which covered many square miles of country. Like
sinuous coils of spaghetti, it looked, and also curiously like vast up-pointed girders of steel
and iron. The rays of the late afternoon sun glinted on this jungle and threw back spears of
intense light. Over the iron ridges of the Catalinas the fleet swept at an elevation of several
thousand feet. Westward, numerous huge globes could be seen drifting south. The commander signaled
a half dozen of his ships to pursue and shoot them down.

In the mountains themselves, there was surprisingly little of the uncanny vegetation. Mile
after mile of billowing hills were quartered, but without anything of a suspicious nature being
noted. Here and there the observers saw signs of life. Men and women waved at them from isolated
homesteads and shacks. At Mount Lemmon the summer colonists appeared unharmed, but in such
rugged country it was impossible to think of landing. Oracle, and for a dozen miles around
its vicinity, was deserted.

Though the commander searched the landscape thoroughly with his glasses, he could detect the
headquarters of no enemies; and yet the existence of the drifting globes would seem to presuppose
a sizable base from which they operated. Mystified, he nevertheless subjected the Oracle area
to a thorough bombing, and it was while engaged in doing so that he and his men observed a
startling phenomenon.

High in the heavens, seemingly out of nothing, the mysterious globes grew. The aviators stared,
rubbed their eyes in amazement, doubted the truth of what they saw. Their commander recollected
his own words, "Those globes don't just materialize out of thin air." But that actually seemed
to be what they were doing. Out of empty space they leaped, appearing first as black spots,
and in a moment swelling to their huge proportions.

One pilot made the mistake of ramming a globe, which burst, and he hurtled to earth in a shower
of seed, seed which seemed to root and grow and cover his craft with a mass of foliage even
as it fell. Horrified, ammunition and explosives exhausted, the amazed commander ordered his
ships back to Tucson. What he had to tell caused a sensation.

"No," he said, finishing his report to the high military official who had arrived with federal
forces, "I saw nothing--aside from the globes--that could possibly account for the attack.
Nothing."

But none the less the attack went on. Though hundreds of planes scoured the sky, though great
guns bellowed day and night and thousands of soldiers, state and federal, were under arms,
still the incredible globes continued to advance, still more and more of the countryside came
under the sway of the nightmarish jungle. And this losing battle was not waged without loss
of human life. Sometimes bodies of artillery were cut off by globes getting beyond their lines
in the darkness and hemming them in. Then they had literally to hack their way out or perish;
and hundreds of them perished. One company sergeant told of a thrilling race with three globes.

