THE COMPLETE WORKS OF ARTEMUS WARD PART 2, WAR.  WAR.

2.1.  THE SHOW IS CONFISCATED.

You hav perhaps wondered wharebouts I was for these many dase gone and past.  Perchans you
sposed I'd gone to the Tomb of the Cappylets, tho I don't know what those is.  It's a popler
noospaper frase.

Listen to my tail, and be silent that ye may here I've been among the Seseshers, a earnin my
daily peck by my legitimit perfeshun, and havn't had no time to weeld my facile quill for "the
Grate Komick paper," if you'll allow me to kote from your troothful advertisement.

My success was skaly, and I likewise had a narrer scape of my life.  If what I've bin threw
is "Suthren hosspitality," 'bout which we've hearn so much, then I feel bound to obsarve that
they made two much of me.  They was altogether two lavish with their attenshuns.

I went amung the Seseshers with no feelins of annermosity.  I went in my perfeshernal capacity.
I was actooated by one of the most Loftiest desires which can swell the human Buzzum, viz.:--to
giv the peeple their money's worth, by showin them Sagashus Beests, and Wax Statoots, which
I venter to say air onsurpast by any other statoots anywheres.  I will not call that man who
sez my statoots is humbugs a lier and a hoss thief, but bring him be4 me and I'll wither him
with one of my scornful frowns.

But to proseed with my tail.  In my travels threw the Sonny South I heared a heap of talk about
Seceshon and bustin up the Union, but I didn't think it mounted to nothin.  The politicians
in all the villages was swearin that Old Abe (sometimes called the Prahayrie flower) shouldn't
never be noggerated.  They also made fools of theirselves in varis ways, but as they was used
to that I didn't let it worry me much, and the Stars and Stripes continued for to wave over
my little tent.  Moor over, I was a Son of Malty and a member of several other Temperance Societies,
and my wife she was a Dawter of Malty, an I sposed these fax would secoor me the infloonz and
pertectiun of all the fust families.  Alas!  I was dispinted.  State arter State seseshed and
it growed hotter and hotter for the undersined.  Things came to a climbmacks in a small town
in Alabamy, where I was premtorally ordered to haul down the Stars & Stripes.  A deppytashun
of red-faced men cum up to the door of my tent ware I was standin takin money (the arternoon
exhibishun had commenst, an' my Italyun organist was jerkin his sole-stirrin chimes.)  "We
air cum, Sir," said a millingtary man in a cockt hat, "upon a hi and holy mishun.  The Southern
Eagle is screamin threwout this sunny land--proudly and defiantly screamin, Sir!"

"What's the matter with him?" sez I; "don't his vittles sit well on his stummick?"

"That Eagle, Sir, will continner to scream all over this Brite and tremenjus land!"

"Wall, let him SCREAM.  If your Eagle can amuse hisself by screamin, let him went!"  The men
anoyed me, for I was Bizzy makin change.

"We are cum, Sir, upon a matter of dooty--"

"You're right, Capting.  It's every man's dooty to visit my show," said I.

"We air cum--"

"And that's the reason you are here!" sez I, larfin one of my silvery larfs.  I thawt if he
wanted to goak I'd giv him sum of my sparklin eppygrams.

"Sir, you're inserlent.  The plain question is, will you haul down the Star-Spangled Banner,
and hist the Southern flag!"

"Nary hist!"  Those was my reply.

"Your wax works and beests is then confisticated, & you air arrested as a Spy!"

Sez I, "My fragrant roses of the Southern clime and Bloomin daffodils, what's the price of
whisky in this town, and how many cubic feet of that seductive flooid can you individooally hold?"

They made no reply to that, but said my wax figgers was confisticated.  I axed them if that
was ginerally the stile among thieves in that country, to which they also made no reply, but
said I was arrested as a Spy, and must go to Montgomry in iuns.  They was by this time jined
by a large crowd of other Southern patrits, who commenst hollerin "Hang the baldheaded aberlitionist,
and bust up his immoral exhibition!"  I was ceased and tied to a stump, and the crowd went
for my tent--that water-proof pavilion, wherein instruction and amoosment had been so muchly
combined, at 15 cents per head--and tore it all to pieces.  Meanwhile dirty- faced boys was
throwin stuns and empty beer bottles at my massiv brow, and takin other improper liberties
with my person.  Resistance was useless, for a varity of reasons, as I readily obsarved.

The Seseshers confisticated my statoots by smashin them to attums.  They then went to my money
box and confisticated all the loose change therein contaned.  They then went and bust in my
cages, lettin all the animils loose, a small but helthy tiger among the rest.  This tiger has
a excentric way of tearin dogs to peaces, and I allers sposed from his gineral conduck that
he'd hav no hesitashun in servin human beins in the same way if he could get at them.  Excuse
me if I was crooil, but I larfed boysterrusly when I see that tiger spring in among the people.
"Go it, my sweet cuss!" I inardly exclaimed.  "I forgive you for bitin off my left thum with
all my heart!  Rip 'em up like a bully tiger whose Lare has bin inwaded by Seseshers!"

I can't say for certain that the tiger serisly injured any of them, but as he was seen a few
days after, sum miles distant, with a large and well selected assortment of seats of trowsis
in his mouth, and as he lookt as tho he'd been havin sum vilent exercise, I rayther guess he
did.  You will therefore perceive that they didn't confisticate him much.

I was carried to Montgomry in iuns and placed in durans vial. The jail was a ornery edifiss,
but the table was librally surplied with Bakin an Cabbidge.  This was a good variety, for when
I didn't hanker after Bakin I could help myself to the cabbige.

I had nobody to talk to nor nothin to talk about, howsever, and I was very lonely, specially
on the first day; so when the jailer parst my lonely sell I put the few stray hairs on the
back part of my hed (I'm bald now, but thare was a time when I wore sweet auburn ringlets)
into as dish-hevild a state as possible, & rollin my eyes like a manyyuck, I cride:  "Stay,
jaler, stay!  I am not mad, but soon shall be if you don't bring me suthin to Talk!"  He brung
me sum noospapers, for which I thanked him kindly.

At larst I got a interview with Jefferson Davis, the President of the Southern Conthieveracy.
He was quite perlite, and axed me to sit down and state my case.  I did it, when he larfed
and said his gallunt men had been a little 2 enthoosiastic in confisticatin my show.

"Yes," sez I, "they confisticated me too muchly.  I had sum hosses confisticated in the same
way onct, but the confisticaters air now poundin stun in the States Prison in Injinnapylus."

"Wall, wall Mister Ward, you air at liberty to depart; you air friendly to the South, I know.
Even now we hav many frens in the North, who sympathize with us, and won't mingle with this
fight."  J. Davis, it is my decided opinion that the Sonny South is makin a egrejus mutton-hed
of herself!"

"Go on, sir, you're safe enuff.  You're two small powder for me!" sed the President of the
Southern Conthieveracy.

"Wait till I go home and start out the Baldinsville Mounted Hoss Cavalry!  I'm Capting of that
Corpse, I am, and J. Davis, beware!  Jefferson D., I now leave you!  Farewell my gay Saler
Boy!  Good-bye, my bold buccaneer!  Pirut of the deep blue sea, adoo! adoo!"

My tower threw the Southern Conthieveracy on my way home was thrillin enuff for yeller covers.
It will form the subjeck of my next.  Betsy Jane and the projeny air well.

Yours respectively,

A. Ward.

2.2.  THRILLING SCENES IN DIXIE.

I had a narrer scape from the sonny South.  "The swings and arrers of outrajus fortin," alluded
to by Hamlick, warn't nothin in comparison to my trubles.  I come pesky near swearin sum profane
oaths more'n onct, but I hope I didn't do it, for I've promist she whose name shall be nameless
(except that her initials is Betsy J.) that I'll jine the Meetin House at Baldinsville, jest
as soon as I can scrape money enuff together so I can 'ford to be piuss in good stile, like
my welthy nabers.  But if I'm confisticated agin I'm fraid I shall continner on in my present
benited state for sum time.

I figgered conspicyusly in many thrillin scenes in my tower from Montgomry to my humsted, and
on sevril occasions I thought "the grate komick paper" wouldn't be inriched no more with my
lubrications.  Arter biddin adoo to Jefferson D. I started for the depot.  I saw a nigger sittin
on a fence a playin on a banjo, "My Afrikan Brother," sed I, coting from a Track I onct red,
"you belong to a very interestin race.  Your masters is goin to war excloosively on your account."

"Yes, boss," he replied, "an' I wish 'em honorable graves!" and he went on playin the banjo,
larfin all over and openin his mouth wide enuff to drive in an old-fashioned 2 wheeled chaise.

The train of cars in which I was to trust my wallerable life, was the scaliest, rickytiest
lookin lot of consarns that I ever saw on wheels afore.  "What time does this string of second-hand
coffins leave?" I inquired of the depot master. He sed direckly, and I went in & sot down.
I hadn't more'n fairly squatted afore a dark lookin man with a swinister expression onto his
countenance entered the cars, and lookin very sharp at me, he axed what was my principles?

"Secesh!" I ansered.  "I'm a Dissoluter.  I'm in favor of Jeff Davis, Bowregard, Pickens, Capt.
Kidd, Bloobeard, Munro Edards, the devil, Mrs. Cunningham and all the rest of 'em."

"You're in favor of the war?"

"Certingly.  By all means.  I'm in favor of this war and also of the next war.  I've been in
favor of the next war for over sixteen years!"

"War to the knife!" sed the man.

"Blud, Eargo, Blud!" sed I, tho them words isn't orrigernal with me, them words was rit by
Shakspeare, who is ded.  His mantle fell onto the author of "The Seven Sisters," who's goin
to hav a Spring overcoat made out of it.

We got under way at larst, an' proceeded on our jerney at about the rate of speed which is
ginrally obsarved by properly-conducted funeral processions.  A hansum yung gal, with a red
musketer bar on the back side of her hed, and a sassy little black hat tipt over her forrerd,
sot in the seat with me.  She wore a little Sesesh flag pin'd onto her hat, and she was a goin
for to see her troo love, who had jined the Southern army, all so bold and gay.  So she told
me.  She was chilly and I offered her my blanket.

"Father livin?" I axed.

"Yes, sir."

"Got any Uncles?"

"A heap.  Uncle Thomas is ded, tho."

"Peace to Uncle Thomas's ashes, and success to him!  I will be your Uncle Thomas!  Lean on
me, my pretty Secesher, and linger in Blissful repose!"  She slept as secoorly as in her own
housen, and didn't disturb the sollum stillness of the night with 'ary snore!

At the first station a troop of Sojers entered the cars and inquired if "Old Wax Works" was
on bored.  That was the disrespectiv stile in which they referred to me.  "Becawz if Old Wax
Works is on bored," sez a man with a face like a double-breasted lobster, "we're going to hang
Old Wax Works!"

"My illustrious and patriotic Bummers!" sez I, a gittin up and takin orf my Shappo, "if you
allude to A. Ward, it's my pleasin dooty to inform you that he's ded.  He saw the error of
his ways at 15 minutes parst 2 yesterday, and stabbed hisself with a stuffed sled-stake, dyin
in five beautiful tabloos to slow moosic!  His last words was:  'My perfeshernal career is
over!  I jerk no more!'"

"And who be you?"

"I'm a stoodent in Senator Benjamin's law offiss.  I'm going up North to steal some spoons
and things for the Southern Army."

This was satisfactory and the intossicated troopers went orf. At the next station the pretty
little Secessher awoke and sed she must git out there.  I bid her a kind adoo and giv her sum
pervisions.  "Accept my blessin and this hunk of ginger bred!" I sed.  She thankt me muchly
and tript galy away.  There's considerable human nater in a man, and I'm afraid I shall allers
giv aid and comfort to the enemy if he cums to me in the shape of a nice young gal.

At the next station I didn't get orf so easy.  I was dragged out of the cars and rolled in
the mud for several minits, for the purpose of "takin the conseet out of me," as a Secesher
kindly stated.

I was let up finally, when a powerful large Secesher came up and embraced me, and to show that
he had no hard feelins agin me, put his nose into my mouth.  I returned the compliment by placin
my stummick suddenly agin his right foot, when he kindly made a spittoon of his able-bodied
face.  Actooated by a desire to see whether the Secesher had bin vaxinated I then fastened
my teeth onto his left coat-sleeve and tore it to the shoulder.  We then vilently bunted out
heads together for a few minutes, danced around a little, and sot down in a mudpuddle.  We
riz to our feet agin and by a sudden and adroit movement I placed my left eye agin the Secesher's
fist.  We then rushed into each other's arms and fell under a two-hoss wagon.  I was very much
exhaustid and didn't care about gettin up agin, but the man sed he reckoned I'd better, and
I conclooded I would.  He pulled me up, but I hadn't bin on my feet more'n two seconds afore
the ground flew up and hit me in the hed.  The crowd sed it was high old sport, but I couldn't
zackly see where the lafture come in.  I riz and we embraced agin.  We careered madly to a
steep bank, when I got the upper hands of my antaggernist and threw him into the raveen.  He
fell about forty feet, striking a grindstone pretty hard.  I understood he was injured.  I
haven't heard from the grindstone.

A man in a cockt hat cum up and sed he felt as though a apology was doo me.  There was a mistake.
The crowd had taken me for another man!  I told him not to mention it, and axed him if his
wife and little ones was so as to be about, and got on bored the train, which had stopped at
that station "20 minits for refreshments."  I got all I wantid.  It was the hartiest meal I
ever et.

I was rid on a rale the next day, a bunch of blazin fire crackers bein tied to my coat tales.
It was a fine spectycal in a dramatic pint of view, but I didn't enjoy it.  I had other adventers
of a startlin kind, but why continner?  Why lasserate the Public Boozum with these here things?
Suffysit to say I got across Mason & Dixie's line safe at last.  I made tracks for my humsted,
but she to whom I'm harnist for life failed to recognize, in the emashiated bein who stood
before her, the gushin youth of forty-six summers who had left her only a few months afore.
But I went into the pantry, and brought out a certin black bottle.  Raisin it to my lips, I
sed "Here's to you, old gal!"  I did it so natral that she knowed me at once.  "Those form!
Them voice!  That natral stile of doin things!  'Tis he!" she cried, and rushed into my arms.
It was too much for her & she fell into a swoon.  I cum very near swoundin myself.

No more to-day from yours for the Pepetration of the Union, and the bringin of the Goddess
of Liberty out of her present bad fix.

2.3.  FOURTH OF JULY ORATION.

Delivered July 4th, at Weathersfield, Connecticut, 1859.

[I delivered the follerin, about two years ago, to a large and discriminating awjince.  I was
96 minits passin a givin pint. I have revised the orashun, and added sum things which makes
it approposser to the times than it otherwise would be.  I have also corrected the grammers
and punktooated it.  I do my own punktooatin now days.

Weathersfield is justly celebrated for her onyins and patritism the world over, and to be axed
to paws and address you on this my fust perfeshernal tower threw New Englan, causes me to feel--to
feel--I may say it causes me to FEEL. (Grate applaws.  They thought this was one of my eccentricities,
while the fact is I was stuck.  This between you and I.)

I'm a plane man.  I don't know nothin about no ded languages and am a little shaky on livin
ones.  Toe much good blud was spilt in courtin and marryin that hily respectable female the
Goddess of Liberty, to git a divorce from her now. My own State of Injianny is celebrated for
unhitchin marrid peple with neatness and dispatch, but you can't get a divorce from the Goddess
up there.  Not by no means.  The old gal has behaved herself too well to cast her off now.
I'm sorry the picters don't give her no shoes or stockins, but the band of stars upon her hed
must continner to shine undimd, forever. I'm for the Union as she air, and withered be the
arm of every ornery cuss who attempts to bust her up.  That's me.  I hav sed!  [It was a very
sweaty day, and at this pint of the orashun a man fell down with sunstroke.  I told the awjince
that considerin the large number of putty gals present I was more afraid of a DAWTER STROKE.
You will excuse me if I don't prase the erly settlers of the Kolonies.  Peple which hung idiotic
old wimin for witches, burnt holes in Quakers' tongues and consined their feller critters to
the tredmill and pillery on the slitest provocashun may hav bin very nice folks in their way,
but I must confess I don't admire their stile, and will pass them by.  I spose they ment well,
and so, in the novel and techin langwidge of the nusepapers, "peas to their ashis."  He never
slopt over!  The prevailin weakness of most public men is to SLOP OVER!  [Put them words in
large letters--A. W.]  They git filled up and slop.  They Rush Things.  They travel too much
on the high presher principle.  When they see the multitood goin it blind they go Pel Mel with
it, instid of exerting theirselves to set it right.  They can't see that the crowd which is
now bearin them triumfantly on its shoulders will soon diskiver its error and cast them into
the hoss pond of Oblivyun, without the slitest hesitashun. Washington never slopt over.  That
wasn't George's stile.  He luved his country dearly.  He wasn't after the spiles.  He was a
human angil in a 3 kornerd hat and knee britches, and we shan't see his like right away.

      *      *      *      *      *      *      *      *

Be shure and vote at leest once at all elecshuns.  Buckle on yer armer and go to the Poles.
See two it that your naber is there.  See that the kripples air provided with carriages.  Go
to the poles and stay all day.  Bewair of the infamous lise whitch the Opposishun will be sartin
to git up fur perlitical effek on the eve of eleckshun.  To the poles and when you git there
vote jest as you darn please.  This is a privilege we all persess, and it is 1 of the booties
of this grate and free land.

I see mutch to admire in New Englan.  Your gals in partickular air abowt as snug bilt peaces
of Calliker as I ever saw.  They air fully equal to the corn fed gals of Ohio and Injianny
and will make the bestest kind of wives.  It sets my Buzzum on fire to look at 'em.

             Be still, my sole, be still,
             & you, Hart, stop cuttin up!

