She did not hear a call, an approaching foot; but her sinking pulses leapt up with sudden power
and passion when Hector Garret stooped over her, and endeavoured to raise her.

"Here, Bridget, she is found! Leslie, why have you remained out so late? You have been sleeping;
you have made yourself ill. How can you be so rash, so imprudent? It is childish--wrong. You
have made us anxious--distressed us. Poor old Bridget has stumbled further in search of you,
this squally night, than she has ventured on the sunniest morning for many a year."

He was excited, aggrieved; he upbraided her. He had sympathy for old Bridget's infirmities;
he knew nothing of his wife's misery.

Leslie resisted him as she had done since that day, slipped from his clasp, strove to steady
herself, and to walk alone in her weakness. Bridget put her feeble arm around her.

"Lean on me, madam, and I will lean on you, for I am frail, and the road is rough, and the
wind is blowing fresh, besides the darkness." "I knew that would quiet her," she muttered.
"Poor old Bridget indeed! said Master Hector. Poor colleen! misled, misguided. Cruel makes
cruel. St. Patrick could not save himself from the hard necessity."

Hector Garret was content since he saw Leslie safe; he accused her of captiousness and nervousness,
but it was the waywardness and perversity of illness. He had tried her simple nature with too
much alienation from her kind; she had grown morbid on the baneful diet, tutored though she
had been to self-dependence. He had been to blame; but her merry temper would come back, and
the rose to her cheek, and the spring to her foot, with other ties, other occupations--dearer,
more sufficient.

V.--THE MOTHER AND CHILD.

"How is the poor child, Bridget Kennedy? Does she fare as she should do?"

"The child is as fine a child, Master Hector, as if she had been a boy, and a Garret, on both
sides of the house, and will thrive if her mother will let her. There are mothers that would
hinder their bairns in the death-rattle, and there are others that so watch their little ones
that the angels of God are displaced from their cradles; and the weary human care haunts and
harasses the infant, and stops its growth."

"I am not learned in these matters, Bridget. You brought me up; I trust you to rear my children."

"None shall rear them but their mother, Master Hector; none shall come between her and them. Their
mode of-- concealment, however, as it did not appear to be cunningly
be contrived and skilfully executed, is not always successful mistakes,
their enemies there thinking their nursling. The parent of the caterpillars
in rolling up the leaves is not only to conceal themselves from birds
and predatory insects, but also to protect themselves from the cuckoo-flies,
which lie in wait in every deposit their eggs for their bodies, that
their progeny may not devour them.

 Your father did not confound them."

"Ah! I dare say not. We will find a Christian name for the new comer, and end the Comedy of
Errors, since you dislike it, and Leslie too, doubtless; for women are nice on these points."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Leslie, what shall we call the baby?" inquired Hector Garret the next time he stood by his
wife's side, wishing to divert her by a pleasant difficulty, and to vary the expression of
those large eyes--larger now than ever--which, he knew not why, fascinated him by the intensity
of their gaze. "I cause Bridget to blunder oddly between you two; so set her at rest by fixing
as soon as you can the momentous question."

"I have fixed," answered Leslie, quietly.

"I commend your foresight; a man, now, would have left the alternative open to the last."

"Mrs. Garret's first daughter must be named after Mrs. Garret's mother," declared Bridget,
authoritatively.

"No," said Leslie, hastily; "I have named her after myself--if you do not object," she added,
with a flush, half shame, half pride.

"I? Oh, no; do as you will. It will not solve Bridget's puzzle; but I am content. Leslie is
a bonnie name."

Leslie compressed her lip.

"My mother's name is bonnier," she said, abruptly; "my mother's name is Alice."

He started, and gazed at her keenly while she continued, falteringly, but with a stubborn will
in her speech:--

"I wish my baby to be mine in everything, particularly as she is a girl. I am neither wise
nor clever, nor strong now. I fear I am often peevish; but you will excuse me, because I am
a weak, ignorant woman. Such defects are not fatal in a mother; hundreds have overcome them
for their children. I trust that I will be, if not what a better woman might have been, at
least more to my child than any other can be. Her mother!--so holy a tie must confer some peculiar
fitness. Yes; my baby is mine, and must lie on my knees, and learn to laugh in my poor face.
And so I wish her to have my name also, that there may be a complete union between us."

Hector Garret knew now what intelligence had reached his wife, and while the old wound burnt
afresh, the shyness of his still but sensitive nature, the pride of the grave strong man, were
offended and injured. But with regard to his wife he was only conscious of the petulant, unreasonable,
unkind surface; he did not sound her deep resentment and jealousy; he did not dream of the
anguish of the secret cry whose outward expression struck upon his vexed ears; he did not hear
her inner protest: "I will not have my baby bear his love's name, recall her to him, be a memorial
of her--be addressed with fondness as much for the sake of old times as for her own, the innocent!--be
brought up to resemble Alice, trained to follow in her footsteps, until, if I died, my child
would be more Alice Boswell's than mine. Never, never!"

Hector Garret little knew Leslie Bower; slowly he arrived at the discovery. First a troubled
suspicion, then a dire certainty. Not the transparent, light-hearted, humble girl, whom a safe,
prosperous country home, an honourable position, a kindly regard, left more than satisfied--happy:
but the visionary, enthusiastic woman, confiding, but claiming confidence for confidence; tender
and true, but demanding like sincerity, constancy, purity, and power of devotion. Had he but
known her the first! But a man's fate lies in one woman. Had he but left her in her girlish
sweetness and gaiety; had he never approached her with his cold overtures--his barren, artificial
expediency and benevolence! She erred in ignorance and inexperience; but he against the bitter
fruit of knowledge, in wilful tampering with truth--reluctantly, misgivingly--selfishly cozening
his conscience, hardening himself in unbelief, applying salve to the old vital stab to his
independence. He had erred with an egotistical and presumptuous conceit of protecting and defending
the young full life which would have found for itself an outlet, and flown on rapid, free,
and rejoicing, had he only refrained from diverting its current into a dull, dark, long-drained
channel, where it was dammed up, or oozed out sluggishly, gloomily, despairingly--without natural
spring-time, sunshine, abundance, gladness, until lost in the great sea.

