The plan is quite unlike that of its neighbour, being cruciform, with a central tower, a short
nave, and a chancel distinctly longer than the nave. On the south both nave and chancel have
a single aisle, the transept projecting beyond it and there is a vestry at the east end. On
the north there is a similar aisle with a Lady Chapel at the east corresponding to the Vestry,
but a large porch and several chapels fill up the spaces so that the transept does not in plan
project.

Looking at the exterior as a whole it may be said that the more moderate length (194 feet),
the central spire, 230 feet high, and the transepts unite in forming a more satisfactory composition
than the long body and immense western steeple of St. Michael's. There however, the superiority
ceases for the frequent "recasings" and restorations have left hardly a stone of the exterior
that has not been renewed again and again, and the dates of these operations, 1786, 1826, 1843,
sufficiently suggest the degree of knowledge and feeling likely to be manifested in the work.

Probably most of the structure was first built of the same friable red sandstone as its greater
neighbour. Much of the recasing has been executed in a rather harder gray sandstone, but the
tower and spire are still red.

The tower above the roofs, is of two stages, the upper, or bell chamber, and the lower or lantern
opening into the church. Below this are small windows with the lines of the old high-pitched
roof visible above the present transept roofs, but in the nave and chancel the lines of the
old roofs are now within the church, the clearstory having since been added. Each face of the
tower is divided, apart from the narrow angle buttresses, into six vertical divisions separated
by thin projections of buttress form. On the south and west the stair turret absorbs one of
the outer divisions. Each division is curved in plan in a curious way, which may be the perpetuation
of a feature of the original design, but was more probably introduced or modified by the person
who recased the tower in 1826. That there was sculpture we know, for in 1709 ten shillings
was paid for taking the images down from the steeple. The smallness of the sum indicates that
they were few in number, and if they occupied similar positions to those on the belfry stage
of St. Michael's, and the structure was as decayed as was the tower of that church it is probable
that the cutting away of the niches may have suggested the curving of the surfaces especially
as the tower would be thereby lightened. As it is we cannot be certain of much else than that
there were vertical divisions serving to emphasize the impression of height and that the openings
were in the same positions as now.

The spire blown down in 1665 had been in the previous ninety years five times repaired and
repointed. We cannot now say whether the original design was at all closely followed in the
rebuilding, but its present likeness to St. Michael's suggests doubts. The lowest stage which
takes the place of the octagon and may be an intentional imitation of it, has almost upright
sides with two-light windows on the cardinal faces and panelled ones on the oblique sides,
while the remaining stages correspond in number and partly in design with those of St. Michael's.

In 1855 it was considered that the bells endangered the safety of the tower, and after recasting
by Mears of London they were rehung in a timber campanile in the north churchyard. Even now
they cannot be pealed.

The deplorable refacings have left few features of interest on the outside. Were Gothic architecture
still a living and not merely imitative and academic art, one would welcome a complete renewal
of all outside work--not an imagined harking back to the work of the fifteenth century but
showing the lapse of the centuries from the fifteenth to the twentieth as clearly as does the
north porch the change from the thirteenth to the fifteenth.

CHAPTER III

THE INTERIOR

It is with a feeling of expectation followed by one of relief that we pass within the church,
for restoration has there rarely the same excuse for its devastations as the action of wind
and weather on the exterior too generously gives it, and this church is no exception to the
general rule.

The clearing away of galleries, the provision of new seating and the renewal of much window
tracery have been the principal changes, the greatest loss being the destruction of the Corpus
Christi Chapel. The nave is of moderate width and consists of only four bays, the eastern arches
being narrower and made to abut against the tower after the manner of flying buttresses. The
columns are clusters of four large filleted shafts separated by small ones while the bases
are high and evidently meant to be seen above the benches. The caps are shallow and very simple,
while the shafts of each pier reappear as part of the arch moulding.

The arcade as a whole is remarkably strong and dignified, it would perhaps have gained by the
addition of a bay in length. In the absence of precise records it may be assigned to the second
quarter of the fourteenth century or a little later. Above the tower arch can still be seen,
beneath the painting and plaster, the marks of the older steep roof. The nave of Stratford-on-Avon
Church has points of resemblance to this. There too we have a fourteenth-century arcade (but
much simpler) with a fifteenth-century panelled wall and clearstory above, and the panelling
comes down on to the backs of the arches in a similar though somewhat simpler manner.

Owing to the inequality of the eastern arches there is, in the position of the windows and
roof principals a curious disregard of the lines of the piers and the centres of arches. There
are eight equal bays in the roof and each corresponds to two two-light windows. It is interesting
to compare the design of this clearstory with that of St. Michael's. It has more solidity to
accord with the more vigorous arcade though the treatment of the panelling is similar. The
height from the arch to the roof is much less in proportion, but the sills of the windows are
kept lower and the heads are square. The form of the windows is perhaps determined in part
by the desire for more space for stained glass, but it is also the logical outcome of the space
afforded by the level lines of a wooden roof just as the use of the pointed window follows
from the use of pointed vaulting. The treatment of the angles after the manner of the thirteenth
century "shouldered" lintel in order to take off the harshness of the rectangular form and
to give a better bearing for the lintels is noteworthy and should be compared with the more
developed forms at St. John's Church.

Above the tower arch is a painting of the Last Judgement, discovered in 1831. It is now so
much darkened that very little can be made out. The following is a description of its appearance
before 1860: In the centre is the Saviour clothed in crimson and seated on a rainbow. Below
are the Virgin Mary and St. John the Baptist with the twelve Apostles arranged on each hand.
Two angels sound the summons to Judgement, and on the right of our Saviour, steps lead to a
portico over which three angels look down on the scene and others welcome a pope who has just
passed St. Peter. On the Saviour's left are doomed spirits being conveyed by devils in various
ways and in ludicrous attitudes to the place of torment, represented in the usual manner by
the gaping mouth of a monster, vomiting flames of fire. A large painting of a crucifix, with
a priest kneeling beside it and angels flying above, was discovered at the same time on the
north side of the Chancel but was too much mutilated to be thought worthy of preservation.

The =roofs= throughout are of low pitch, and almost all resemble one another in design. Those
of the nave, chancel, archdeacon's chapel (on the west of the north porch) and transepts are
divided by their principal timbers into large panels, which are again subdivided by mouldings
upon the boarded ceiling. At all angles and intersections there are carved leaves, and stars
in relief adorn each panel. All these roofs are painted in accordance, it is said, with existing
indications of the original colouring. The ground is blue, the mouldings red and white, the
stars and carving are gilt. The nave roof spandrels, above the tie-beams, have large painted
figures of angels, supporting between them shields emblazoned with the instruments of the Passion.
These are also said to be reproductions, but it appears likely that time had left much to the
imagination of their restorer.

Nevertheless, the whole effect of the roofs is harmonious, a result apparently obtained by
the use of a blue far removed from the ultramarine tint too often employed.

Since the removal of the ringing floor, in 1855, the lantern stage of the tower has been once
more visible from the church. A wooden vaulted ceiling was at the same time inserted where
a stone one had originally been built or intended.

The =chancel= is dark owing to the small clearstory windows, the low outer north aisle, and
the concealment of a south window by the organ. At the first pier east of the tower came the
rood-screen, and on the south side (in the aisle) the door to it may be seen at a height above
the floor. Access must have been by steep steps against the wall, or from the top of another
screen across the aisle. The church accounts of the year 1560 tell us what it cost to remove:

  Payd for taking down ye rode and Marie and John        4s. 4d.
  Payd to ye carpenter for pullyng down ye rode lofft    4s. 8d.

On the east side of the tower wall can be seen the line of the original roof, showing the height
before the rebuilding in 1391. Although there is space for larger windows the aisle roof prevented
their sills being brought lower. The west arch of the south arcade has been forced out of shape
by the pressure of the tower piers and arches; certainly the piers, which are little more than
4 feet square, seem slender enough for the support of so lofty a steeple.

Attached to this south-east tower pier is the stone pulpit, one of the two special glories
of the church, the other being the brass eagle. The pulpit is either contemporary with the
pier or nearly so. There is apparently some difference in the texture and colour of the stone,
but as it is probable that a finer-grained stone would be chosen for work of this character,
this need not imply a difference of date. It was, however, probably added at the same time
as the nave clearstory. The authors of "English Church Furniture" assign it to 1470.[7] Before
1833 (when restored by Rickman) it had been hidden from sight by wood-work and a clerk's desk
at a lower level. The lower part is boldly corbelled out and the junction of the octagon with
the pier shafts is well managed, but the upper open-panelled part is rather too definitely
cut off from the lower by the battlemented cornice. Very few examples of this class of pulpit
exist in England, and none equal in importance.

The eagle =lectern= is a magnificent example of brass casting. It is generally attributed to
the late fifteenth century. This eagle narrowly escaped being sold by the Puritans for old
brass, as happened to that of St. Michael's. It closely resembles one belonging to St. Nicholas'
Chapel, Lynn, save that the latter is not equal in refinement of detail and proportion, and
the bird is less vigorous in pose and modelling. In 1560 there was "paid for skowring ye Egle
and candell styckes, 10d.," and "for mending of ye Egle's tayle, 16d."

At least nine chapels and fifteen altars are known to have existed in the church. The present
choir vestry on the north side was the Lady Chapel. A simple piscina on the south side, about
a foot above the present floor, shows that the old floor level was much lower.

The =north aisle= is lofty and has a clearstory of three windows over the arcade. In the outer
aisle was located Marler's, or the Mercers', Chapel, founded in 1537, and beneath it is a crypt
or charnel house, now closed save for small ventilating openings.

The black oak roof of low pitch has the panels of the western bay only richly carved with vine
leaves and grapes. Its date is, perhaps, as late as the foundation of the chantry. The piscina
is in the north wall.

West of the north transept is =St. Thomas's Chapel=. Dugdale says that Allesley's chantry was
founded in the time of Edward I, at the altar of St. Thomas the Martyr, "in a chapel near adjoining
to the church porch." The chapel is certainly older, for the beautiful double doorway from
the porch is not later than mid-thirteenth century. The outer doorway of the porch was rebuilt
in the fifteenth century. The inner one, with a finely moulded arch with angle shafts and the
vault with simple diagonal ribs carried on shafts, is of the early thirteenth century. It is
to be regretted that this fine porch is not better seen. Signs of the puzzling reconstructions
that have occurred in this part are visible in the aisle wall. Two lancet windows high up are
of the same date as the porch, and are blocked by the chamber since constructed above St. Thomas's
Chapel, and parts of other window jambs are seen at different levels.

The Archdeacon's Chapel or consistory court, to the west of the porch, is now one of the most
interesting parts of the church.

It is divided from the north aisle by two lofty arches with an octagonal column. The original
dedication is not known, but in 1588 it was already used as an Ecclesiastical Court, and the
next year a bishop's seat was made for use in it. In the south-west angle is a tall, narrow
recess, once closed by a door. Lockers of this description were constructed for the safe keeping
of the shaft of the processional cross, and for the staves of banners. On the east side the
roof now cuts across the head of a window of reticulated tracery of the early fourteenth century.
Most of the monuments have been brought hither from various parts of the church; only two or
three are of general interest. A late Perpendicular canopied tomb, rudely carved and badly
fitted together, stands against the north wall, but there is nothing to show whom it commemorates.
On the east wall is the monument of Dr. Philemon Holland, with a long Latin epitaph. Fuller
says of him: "he was the translator general in his age, so that those books alone of his turning
into English will make a country gentleman a competent library for historians." Born at Chelmsford
in 1551 he settled at Coventry in 1595, was usher and then master of St. John's Free School
for twenty-eight years, and died in 1636 in his eighty-fifth year. During his usher-ship Dugdale
was a pupil of the school.

An engraved brass to John Whithead, who died in 1597, is interesting for the sake of the costumes
of himself and his two wives. Three stone coffins have also been deposited here, and two sheets
of lead from the roof recording, in fine bold lettering, the repairs executed in 1660 and 1728.
In the middle window on the north side are the only remaining fragments of ancient glass. As
late as 1779 there were "portraits" of Earl Leofric and the Countess, and also, it is said,
a smaller figure of the lady in a yellow dress on a white horse. Part of a small figure holding
a spray of leaves and part of a galloping horse are pointed out as the remains of this. To
the writer the figure appears to be clearly that of a man, and the horse and rider's leg not
to have belonged to it.

The modern stained glass is very unequal in character, and some is very poor indeed. The windows
at the west, especially one in memory of Mr. Wm. Chater, a late organist, may be regarded as
exceptions. There are still, fortunately, many which are not filled with pious memorials.

The =font= is the original pre-Reformation one of the fifteenth century, which was removed
by the Puritans in 1645 (though devoid of sculpture) and brought back after the Restoration.
It stands on three steps, is panelled on bowl and stem, and rather brilliantly adorned with
gold and colour.

The south aisle was no doubt divided into two chapels, that on the west belonging to the Barkers'
or Tanners' Gild. A small piscina against the south wall indicates the position of its altar.
The wall below the windows is recessed so as to form a seat the whole length of the aisle.

The =south transept=, containing the Corpus Christi and Cellet's chantries, has lost its original
character completely. The piscina, high up on the south wall, shows that the floor level was
some 9 feet above that of the church. The reason for this has been already explained. The organ
chamber is quite modern. The best authorities place the chapel of the Butchers' Gild in the
south aisle of the chancel, but do not say to whom the eastern chapel in the nave aisle belonged.
It is known that there was a Jesus Chapel, and, in view of the proximity of Jesus Hall, it
is believed by some that this was its position.

The present clergy vestry is a fine room, having an excellent dark oak roof with heavy beams
and well carved bosses at the intersections of the timbers. The Royal Arms over the fireplace
were painted there in 1632. Although usual, the placing of the king's arms in churches was
not compulsory until the Restoration; few earlier now remain, and this placing of them in the
vestry rather than the body of the church is suggestive of a compromise between opposing factions.
A portrait of Walter Farquhar Hook, Vicar from 1828-37 and afterwards Dean of Chichester is
hung here.

It seems probable that this was a chapel, perhaps that of the Holy Trinity, to whom an altar
was dedicated.

The history, as traced in the church accounts, of the various organs used in the church gives
some idea of the fluctuations of opinion as to the propriety of their use. In 1526 John Howe
and John Climmowe, citizens and organ makers of London, contracted to provide, for £30, "a
peir of Organs wt vij stopps, ov'r and besides the two Towers of cases, of the pitche of doble
Eff, and wt xxvij pleyn keyes, xix musiks, xlvj cases of Tynn and xiiij cases of wood, wt two
Starrs and the image of the Trinite on the topp of the sayed orgayns." In 1570 the "payer of
balowes" were sold, and in 1583 the pipes, "wayeng eleven score and thirteen pounds, went for
fourpence half-farthing the pound." In 1632 a new one was obtained but its life was short,
for in 1641 the Puritan party caused it to be sold "for the best advantage."

Once more, in 1684, another was purchased from Mr. Robert Hay wood of the City of Bath for
£100; then, in 1732, Thomas Swarbrick of Warwick built one for £600, for which a gallery was
erected across the nave.

In 1855 this gave place to a new one by Foster and Andrews of Hull, costing £800; and this
was rebuilt by Messrs. Hill and Son in 1900.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: "English Church Furniture." (Antiquary series.) J.C. Cox and A. Harvey.]

ST. JOHN BAPTIST'S CHURCH

The church of St. John Baptist has a history quite different from that of the other parish
churches and is specially interesting as a building belonging to a very limited class, namely,
Collegiate Churches owned by a Gild. Though Dugdale says that the "first and most antient of
the Gilds here was founded in the 14th Ed. III (1340)" it is probable that, as in other places,
religious gilds had for long existed here and that the royal license or Charter of this date
was like that of Stratford-on-Avon in 1332, really a reconstitution or confirmation of the
Gild's rights, privileges and possessions.

This earliest one was known as the Merchant or St. Mary's Gild and its first ordinances provided
that "the brethren and sisteren of the gild shall find as many chaplains as the means of the
gild can well afford." Then in 1342 that of St. John Baptist and in 1343 that of St. Katharine
was founded. The former at once founded a chantry of six priests to sing mass daily in the
churches of St. Michael and the Trinity for "the souls of the King's progenitors and for the
good estate of the King, Queen Isabella his mother, Queen Philippa his Consort and their children"
and others, besides the members of the Gild. In 1344 this Gild, desiring to have a building
for its exclusive use, received from Queen Isabella a small piece of land called Babbelak on
which to build a chapel in honour of God and St. John, two priests being required to sing masses
daily for the souls "of her dear lord Edward," John, Earl of Cornwall and others. Did she seek
to satisfy her conscience thus for the woes she had brought upon her dear lord? The site thus
given measured 117 feet from north to south and about 40 feet from east to west giving room
for the chancel only of the present church, this being dedicated in 1350. But in 1357 William
Walsheman, valet to the Queen and now her sub-bailiff in Coventry gave further land, added
a new aisle and increased the number of priests while the Black Prince in 1359 gave a small
plot on which, perhaps, the tower and transept now stand. Within the next ten years Walsheman
and Christiana his wife gave to the Gild certain tenements, called the "Drapery," in the city
to build a chapel in honour of the Holy Trinity, St. Mary, St. John, and St. Katharine "within
the Chapel of Bablake." William Wolfe, mayor in 1375, is mentioned as a "great helper" in the
work at the church, the original nave and aisles being probably built at this time, and some
reconstruction of the choir. Records are wanting of the subsequent alterations which gave it
its present form. The north clearstory of the nave shows the original design while that of
the choir and the south side of the nave belong to the fifteenth century as do the tower and
the cruciform arrangement of the building. Leland's "Itinerary" gives the following description:
"There is also a Collegiate Church at Bablake, hard within the West Gate (Spon Gate) alias
Bablake Gate, dedicated to St. John.... It is of the foundation of the Burgesses and there
is a great Privilege, Gild or Fraternity. In this College is now a Master and eight ministers
and lately twelve ministers." Stowe adds that there were twelve singing men and extant deeds
mention "Babbelake Hall" in which the warden and priests lived.

Many interesting entries of expenditure are to be found in the gild accounts showing how the
Eve of St. John (Midsummer Eve) and other festivals were celebrated before the suppression
of the gilds by Edward VI. In 1541 we have the following (the spelling is somewhat modernized):

   Expenses on Midsummer Even and on the day,--Item, 2 doz. & a half
   cakes, 2s. 6d.; spice cakes, 12d.; a cest' ale and 4 gals.
   4s.; 2 gals, claret wine 16d.; 2 gals. malmsey, 2s. 8d.; 2
   gals. muskedell 2s. 8d.; to Mr. Mayor 3s. 4d.; the Mayor to
   offer, 8d.; to priests, clerks and children, 2s. 4d.; the
   waits, 6s. 8d.; to poor people 6s. 8d.; to the cross-bearers
   and torch-bearers, 8d.; the bellman, 4d.; the hire of pots,
   4d.; boughs, rushes and sweeping, 8d.; a woman 2 days to
   cleanse the house, 4d.; half a hundred 3d. nails, 1½d.;
   half a pound of sugar, 4½d.; to the crossbearer and torchbearer
   for St. George Day, Holy Rood Day, Shire Thursday and Whit
   Sunday, 12d.; to 2 children for the same days, 6d. Summa
   (total) 38s. 2d.

That these anniversaries and wakes led to much unseemly revelling we have evidence that cannot
be gainsaid. The Trinity Gild decided in 1542

   that no obite, drynkyng or com'en assemblie, from henceforth
   shall be had or used at Babalake, except onelie on Trinitie even
   and on the day, which shall be used as it hath been in tymes
   past. And that also the P'sts of Babelack shall say dirige on
   midsum' even and likewise masse of requiem on the morrowe, as
   they have used to doo. And that the Meire shall not come down
   thether to dirige ov(er) night for dyv's considerac'ons and
   other great busynes they used. And on the morowe thei to go
   thether to masse and brekefast, as thei have used to doo.

Dugdale quotes from an old MS. an interesting passage bearing on this question:

   "And ye shall understond and know how the Evyns were furst found
   in old tyme. In the beginning of holi Chirche, it was so that the
   pepull cam to the Chirche with candellys brennyng and wold Wake
   and come with light toward nyght to the Chirch to their
   devocions; and afterwards they fell to lecherie and songs,
   daunces, harping, piping and also to glotony and sinne and so
   turned the holinesse to cursaydnesse; wherefore holi faders
   ordeined the pepull to leve that waking and to fast the Evyn.
   But it is called Vigilia, that is Waking in English and it is
   called the Evyn, for at Evyn they were wont to come to Chirche."

In 1362 Queen Isabella helped to procure from the bishop a licence for one Robert de Worthin,
priest, to become an anchorite and to inhabit a hermitage attached to the north aisle of the
chancel. Traces of the foundations of this have been found on the site of the modern vestry.

When the college was suppressed in 1548 the King granted to the mayor, bailiffs and corporation,
on their petition, the church and its appurtenances in Free Burgage for ever on payment of
1d., per annum and gave them "all the rents, revenues and profits of the said church."

But these gifts were not sufficient to support the church and its services, so that the latter
were irregular and repairs were neglected. In 1608 Mayor Hancox procured the delivery of a
Saturday lecture "for the better fitting of the people for the Sabbath." In 1641 Simon Norton,
alderman, left property to his son Thomas, on trust, the condition being that if at any time
St. John's should become a parish church, he or his heirs should pay £13 6s. 8d. to the minister
out of rents of lands in Coundon, and also the tithes of lands in Clifton.

Prisoners from the Scottish army being quartered on the city in 1647, many were confined in
this church and wrought much damage and desecration. From this time services were only occasionally
held, until 1734, when an Act of Parliament was obtained making it a Parish Church, appointing
a district to it and enabling the Master and Usher of the Free Grammar School to be Rector
and Lecturer of the church. The mayor, bailiffs, and commonalty were made patrons, but in 1835,
these arrangements having failed to work satisfactorily, the patronage was transferred to trustees
who acted as managers of the school and in 1864 the lectureship was abolished, the rectory
was severed from the office of Head Master and the Trustees of the school were charged with
a payment of £200 per annum towards the stipend of the Rector. In 1874 the advowson was sold
to a private person. A great deal of restoration, justifiable and otherwise, has taken place,
the decay of the local sandstone having made large repairs necessary. In 1861 much renewal
of the external stone work was carried out. Unfortunately shortsighted ideas of economy led
to the use of the same poor stone and much has recently had to be done over again, this time
with the harder Runcorn stone used also at St. Michael's. The interior was restored in 1875,
galleries erected in 1735 and 1838, and high pews were removed, the floor, which had been raised
three feet, lowered, the lantern stage of the tower opened up by removing a ringing floor and
a light iron gallery above the tower arches provided for the ringers. The original groined
ceiling has thus been made visible from below.

THE EXTERIOR

Although small in area compared with the other churches, both exterior and interior give an
impression of size and dignity which does not belong to many much larger buildings. In the
exterior this is no doubt due to the pseudo-cruciform arrangement, the bold central tower and
the height of the main roof, which would have appeared even greater had the roadways not been
so much raised.

The =tower= is in two stages, a lofty lantern story having two transomed two-light windows
on each face and a shorter upper one having smaller windows without transoms and a battlemented
parapet. Large skeleton clock-dials disfigure the windows of this story. Narrow buttress strips
on either side and between the windows run through and serve to connect the stories. The north-east
angle has an octagonal stair turret carried up above the parapet. The other angles have narrow
buttresses running up to circular bartizans boldly corbelled out from the battlements. This
is an extremely unusual feature in ecclesiastical architecture but is common on fortified structures.
Of the City gates, Gosford Gate had machicolated ones but not Spon Gate adjacent to the church.

The spacing of the windows and buttresses of the south aisle and the position of the large
transept window show how the later changes were effected. The three windows and the buttresses
with niches and canopies almost certainly belong to the part built by Walsheman after 1357.
The two in the chancel aisle are recent insertions. The doorway at the south-west corner occupies
the position where indications showed that an original door had existed. There is also a small
priest's doorway of which the jambs are ancient. The clearstory was restored in 1861 "from
sufficiently clear indications" in the remains of the original windows. The whole of this part
is worthy of careful study and should be compared with the corresponding parts of Trinity Church.
Everywhere we see signs of individual thought and design mainly directed to softening the rigidity
of the horizontal lines of the square-headed and transomed "Perpendicular" windows. The method
of cusping the drop-arch and the varied treatment of these in nave, choir and transepts are
noteworthy while the little quatrefoil at the intersection of mullion and transom is a really
happy innovation. The flying buttress over the south aisle restores a feature of the old building
which had disappeared. Of the variously panelled and battlemented parapets, of nave, chancel
and aisles a view of 1864 gives no visible hint. As the report of Sir (then Mr.) G.G. Scott
in 1856 specifies as desirable the "renewing all the parapets according to the portions of
the original which remain," we can only hope (but with no sense of certainty) that these parts
are faithfully reproduced.

The limited site on which the chancel was built (only 40 feet deep) caused the builders to
omit any buttresses or other projections at the east end. The east window was renewed in 1861
but the proportions are not good and it is said that one light was suppressed although the
old sill remained intact.

The west end has a large six-light window with two transoms. It was restored in 1841 and is
said to be a precise reproduction of the original design. On the gable above it is a large
niched pinnacle which appears to be an "unauthorized" addition.

