HIS "DAY IN COURT"

By Charles Egbert Craddock

1895

It had been a hard winter along the slopes of the Great Smoky Mountains, and still the towering
treeless domes were covered with snow, and the vagrant winds were abroad, rioting among the
clifty heights where they held their tryst, or raiding down into the sheltered depths of the
Cove, where they seldom intruded. Nevertheless, on this turbulent rush was borne in the fair
spring of the year. The fragrance of the budding wild-cherry was to be discerned amidst the
keen slanting javelins of the rain. A cognition of the renewal and the expanding of the forces
of nature pervaded the senses as distinctly as if one might hear the grass growing, or feel
along the chill currents of the air the vernal pulses thrill. Night after night in the rifts
of the breaking clouds close to the horizon was glimpsed the stately sidereal Virgo, prefiguring
and promising the harvest, holding in her hand a gleaming ear of corn. But it was not the constellation
which the tumultuous torrent at the mountain's base reflected in a starry glitter. From the
hill-side above a light cast its broken image among the ripples, as it shone for an instant
through the bosky laurel, white, stellular, splendid--only a tallow dip suddenly placed in
the window of a log-cabin, and as suddenly withdrawn.

For a gruff voice within growled out a remonstrance: "What ye doin' that fur, Steve? Hev that
thar candle got enny call ter bide in that thar winder?"

The interior, contrary to the customary aspect of the humble homes of the region, was in great
disarray. Cooking utensils stood uncleaned about the hearth; dishes and bowls of earthen-ware
were assembled upon the table in such numbers as to suggest that several meals had been eaten
without the ceremony of laying the cloth anew, and that in default of washing the crockery
it had been re-enforced from the shelf so far as the limited store might admit. Saddles and
spinning-wheels, an ox-yoke and trace-chains, reels and wash-tubs, were incongruously pushed
together in the corners. Only one of the three men in the room made any effort to reduce the
confusion to order. This was the square-faced, black-bearded, thick-set young fellow who took
the candle from the window, and now advanced with it toward the hearth, holding it at an angle
that caused the flame to swiftly melt the tallow, which dripped generously upon the floor.

"I hev seen Eveliny do it," he said, excitedly justifying himself. "I noticed her sot the candle
in the winder jes' las' night arter supper." He glanced about uncertainly, and his patience
seemed to give way suddenly. "Dad-burn the old candle! I dunno whar ter set it," he cried,
desperately, as he flung it from him, and it fell upon the floor close to the wall.

The dogs lifted their heads to look, and one soft-stepping old hound got up with the nimbleness
of expectation, and, with a prescient gratitude astir in his tail, went and sniffed at it.
His aspect drooped suddenly, and he looked around in reproach at Stephen Quimbey, as if suspecting
a practical joke. But there was no merriment in the young mountaineer's face. He threw himself
into his chair with a heavy sigh, and desisted for a time from the unaccustomed duty of clearing
away the dishes after supper.

"An' 'ain't ye got the gumption ter sense what Eveliny sot the candle in the winder fur?" his
brother Timothy demanded, abruptly--"ez a sign ter that thar durned Abs'lom Kittredge."

The other two men turned their heads and looked at the speaker with a poignant intensity of
interest. "I 'lowed ez much when I seen that light ez I war a-kemin' home las' night," he continued;
"it shined spang down the slope acrost the ruver an' through all the laurel; it looked plumb
like a star that hed fell ter yearth in that pitch-black night. I dun-no how I s'picioned it,
but ez I stood thar an' gazed I knowed somebody war a-standin' an' gazin' too on the foot-bredge
a mite ahead o' me. I couldn't see him, an' he couldn't turn back an' pass me, the bredge bein'
too narrer. He war jes obligated ter go on. I hearn him breathe quick; then--pit-pat, pit-pat,
ez he walked straight toward that light. An' he be 'bleeged ter hev hearn me, fur arter I crost
I stopped. Nuthin'. Jes' a whisper o' wind, an' jes' a swishin' from the ruver. I knowed then
he hed turned off inter the laurel. An' I went on, a-whistlin' ter make him 'low ez I never
s'picioned nuthin'. An' I kem inter the house an' tole dad ez he'd better be a-lookin' arter
Eveliny, fur I b'lieved she war a-settin' her head ter run away an' marry Abs'lom Kittredge."

"Waal, I ain't right up an' down sati'fied we oughter done what we done," exclaimed Stephen,
fretfully. "It don't 'pear edzacly right fur three men ter fire on one."

Old Joel Quimbey, in his arm-chair in the chimney-corner, suddenly lifted his head--a thin
head with fine white hair, short and sparse, upon it. His thin, lined face was clear-cut, with
a pointed chin and an aquiline nose. He maintained an air of indignant and rebellious grief,
and had hitherto sat silent, a gnarled and knotted hand on either arm of his chair. His eyes
gleamed keenly from under his heavy brows as he turned his face upon his sons. "How could we
know thar warn't but one, eh?"

He had not been a candidate for justice of the peace for nothing; he had absorbed something
of the methods and spirit of the law through sheer propinquity to the office. "We-uns wouldn't
be persumed ter know." And he ungrudgingly gave himself all the benefit of the doubt that the
law accords.

"That's a true word!" exclaimed Stephen, quick to console his conscience. "Jes' look at the
fac's, now. We-uns in a plumb black midnight hear a man a-gittin' over our fence; we git our
rifles; a-peekin' through the chinkin' we ketch a glimge o' him--"

"Ha!" cried out Timothy, with savage satisfaction, "we seen him by the light she set her head
him on!"

He was tall and lank, with a delicately hooked nose, high cheek-bones, fierce dark eyes, and
dark eyebrows, which were continually elevated, corrugating his forehead. His hair was black,
short and straight, and he was clad in brown jeans, as were the others, with great cowhide
boots reaching to the knee. He fixed his fiery intent gaze on his brother as the slower Stephen
continued, "An' so we blaze away--"

"An' one durned fool's so onlucky ez ter hit him an' not kill him," growled Timothy, again
interrupting. "An' so whilst Eveliny runs out a-screamin', 'He's dead! he's dead!--ye hev shot
him dead!' we-uns make no doubt but he is dead, an' load up agin, lest his frien's mought rush
in on we-uns whilst we hedn't no use o' our shootin'-irons. An' suddint--ye can't hear nuthin'
but jes' a owel hoot-in' in the woods, or old Pa'son Bates's dogs a-howlin' acrost the Cove.
An' we go out with a lantern, an' thar's jes' a pool o' blood in the dooryard, an' bloody tracks
down ter the laurel."

"Eveliny gone!" cried the old man, smiting his hands together; "my leetle darter! The only
one ez never gin me enny trouble. I couldn't hev made out ter put up with this hyar worl' no
longer when my wife died ef it hedn't been fur Eveliny. Boys war wild an' mischeevious, an'
folks outside don't keer nuthin' 'bout ye--ef they war ter 'lect ye ter office 'twould be ter
keep some other feller from hevin' it, 'kase they 'spise him more'n ye. An' hyar she's runned
off an' married old Tom Kittredge's gran'son, Josiah Kittredge's son--when our folks 'ain't
spoke ter none o' 'em fur fifty year--Josiah Kittredge's son--ha! ha! ha!" He laughed aloud
in tuneless scorn of himself and of this freak of froward destiny and then fell to wringing
his hands and calling upon Evelina.

The flare from the great chimney-place genially played over the huddled confusion of the room
and the brown logs of the wall, where the gigantic shadows of the three men mimicked their
every gesture with grotesque exaggeration. The rainbow yarn on the warping bars, the strings
of red-pepper hanging from the ceiling, the burnished metallic flash from the guns on their
racks of deer antlers, served as incidents in the monotony of the alternate yellow flicker
and brown shadow. Deep under the blaze the red coals pulsated, and in the farthest vistas of
the fire quivered a white heat.

"Old Tom Kittredge," the father resumed, after a time, "he jes' branded yer gran'dad's cattle
with his mark; he jes' cheated yer gran'dad, my dad, out'n six head o' cattle."

"But then," said the warlike Timothy, not willing to lose sight of reprisal even in vague reminiscence,
"he hed only one hand ter rob with arter that, fur I hev hearn ez how when gran'dad got through
with him the doctor hed ter take his arm off."

"Sartainly, sartainly," admitted the old man, in quiet assent. "An' Josiah Kittredge he put
out the eyes of a horse critter o' mine right thar at the court-house door--"

"Waal, arterward, we-uns fired his house over his head," put in Tim.

"An' Josiah Kittredge an' me," the old man went on, "we-uns clinched every time we met in this
mortal life. Every time I go past the graveyard whar he be buried I kin feel his fingers on
my throat. He had a nervy grip, but no variation; he always tuk holt the same way."

"Tears like ter me ez 'twar a fust-rate time ter fetch out the rifles again," remarked Tim,
"this mornin', when old Pa'son Bates kem up hyar an' 'lowed ez he hed married Eveliny ter Abs'lom
Kittredge on his death-bed; 'So be, pa'son,' I say. An' he tuk off his hat an' say, 'Thank
the Lord, this will heal the breach an' make ye frien's!' An' I say, 'Edzacly, pa'son, ef it
air Abs'lom's deathbed; but them Kittredges air so smilin' an' deceiv-in' I be powerful feared
he'll cheat the King o' Terrors himself. I'll forgive 'em ennything--over his grave?"

"Pa'son war tuk toler'ble suddint in his temper," said the literal Steve. "I hearn him call
yer talk onchristian, cussed sentiments, ez he put out."

"Ye mus' keep up a Christian sperit, boys; that's the main thing," said the old man, who was
esteemed very religious, and a pious Mentor in his own family. He gazed meditatively into the
fire. "What ailed Eveliny ter git so tuk up with this hyar Abs'-lom? What made her like him?"
he propounded.

"His big eyes, edzacly like a buck's, an' his long yaller hair," sneered the discerning Timothy,
with the valid scorn of a big ugly man for a slim pretty one. "'Twar jes 'count o' his long
yaller hair his mother called him Abs'lom. He war named Pete or Bob, I disremember what--suthin'
common--till his hair got so long an' curly, an' he sot out ter be so plumb all-fired beautiful,
an' his mother named him agin; this time Abs'lom, arter the king's son, 'count o' his yaller hair."

"Git hung by his hair some o' these days in the woods, like him the Bible tells about; that
happened ter the sure-enough Abs'lom," suggested Stephen, hopefully.

"Naw, sir," said Tim; "when Abs'lom Kittredge gits hung it 'll be with suthin' stronger'n hair;
he'll stretch hemp." He exchanged a glance of triumphant prediction with his brother, and anon
gazed ruefully into the fire.

"Ye talk like ez ef he war goin' ter live, boys," said old Joel Quimbey, irritably. "Pa'son
'lowed he war powerful low."

"Pa'son said he'd never hev got home alive 'thout she'd holped him," said Stephen. "She jes'
tuk him an' drug him plumb ter the bars, though I don't see how she done it, slim leetle critter
ez she be; an' thar she holped him git on his beastis; an' then--I declar' I feel ez ef I could
kill her fur a-demeanin' of herself so--she led that thar horse, him a-ridin' an' a-leanin'
on the neck o' the beastis, two mile up the mountain, through the night."

"Waal, let her bide thar. I'll look on her face no mo'," declared the old man, his toothless
jaw shaking. "Kittredge she be now, an' none o' the name kin come a-nigh me. How be I ever
a-goin' 'bout 'mongst the folks at the settlement agin with my darter married ter a Kittredge?
How Josiah an' his dad mus' be a-grinnin' in thar graves at me this night! An' I 'low they
hev got suthin' ter grin about."

And suddenly his grim face relaxed, and once more he began to smite his hands together and
to call aloud for Evelina.

Timothy could offer no consolation, but stared dismally into the fire, and Stephen rose with
a sigh and addressed himself to pushing the spinning-wheels and tubs and tables into the opposite
corner of the room, in the hope of solving the enigma of its wonted order.

*****

It seemed to Evelina afterward that when she climbed the rugged ways of the mountain slope
in that momentous night she left forever in the depths of the Cove that free and careless young
identity which she had been. She did not accurately discriminate the moment in which she began
to realize that she was among her hereditary enemies, encompassed by a hatred nourished to
full proportions and to a savage strength long before she drew her first breath. The fact only
gradually claimed its share in her consciousness as the tension of anxiety for Absalom's sake
relaxed, for the young mountaineer's strength and vitality were promptly reasserted, and he
rallied from the wound and his pallid and forlorn estate with the recuperative power of the
primitive man. By degrees she came to expect the covert unfriendly glances his brother cast
upon her, the lowering averted mien of her sister-in-law, and now and again she surprised a
long, lingering, curious gaze in his mother's eyes. They were all Kittredges! And she wondered
how she could ever have dreamed that she might live happily among them--one of them, for her
name was theirs. And then perhaps the young husband would stroll languidly in, with his long
hair curling on his blue jeans coat-collar, and an assured smile in his dark brown eyes, and
some lazy jest on his lips, certain of a welcoming laugh, for he had been so near to death
that they all had a sense of acquisition in that he had been led back. For his sake they had
said little; his mother would busy herself in brewing his "yerb" tea, and his brother would
offer to saddle the mare if he felt that he could ride, and they would all be very friendly
together; and his alien wife would presently slip out unnoticed into the "gyarden spot," where
the rows of vegetables grew as they did in the Cove, turning upon her the same neighborly looks
they wore of yore, and showing not a strange leaf among them. The sunshine wrapped itself in
its old fine gilded gossamer haze and drowsed upon the verdant slopes; the green jewelled "Juny-bugs"
whirred in the soft air; the mould was as richly brown as in Joel Quimbey's own enclosure;
the flag-lilies bloomed beside the onion bed; and the woolly green leaves of the sage wore
their old delicate tint and gave out a familiar odor.

Among this quaint company of the garden borders she spent much of her time, now hoeing in a
desultory fashion, now leaning on the long handle of the implement and looking away upon the
far reaches of the purple mountains. As they stretched to vague distances they became blue,
and farther on the great azure domes merged into a still more tender hue, and this in turn
melted into a soft indeterminate tint that embellished the faint horizon. Her dreaming eyes
would grow bright and wistful; her rich brown curling hair, set free by the yellow sun-bonnet
that slipped off her head and upon her shoulders, would airily float backward in the wind;
there was a lithe grace in the slender figure, albeit clad in a yellow homespun of a deep dye,
and the faded purplish neckerchief was caught about a throat fairer even than the fair face,
which was delicately flushed. Absalom's mother, standing beside Peter, the eldest son, in the
doorway, watched her long one day.

"It all kem about from that thar bran dance," said Peter, a homely man, with a sterling, narrow-minded
wife and an ascetic sense of religion. "Thar Satan waits, an' he gits nimbler every time ye
shake yer foot. 

James Melin looked curiously at his presumptuous opponent. Maybe he knew he was destined to lose money,
and preferred refluyese in their own coffers to enter into those an outsider, so I nodded,
and drew his chair to the table. At that Right now, knock on the door.

- It's Lina - Moreno said.

James pulled back the bolt, and the door opened, but for the first time in his life lost aplomb,
got up wobbling, and a rush of blood to the face reddened her pale
face.

Right there in his room, was the mistress of the diligence of Wingdam,
whom Moreno dropping the letters, greeting, exclaiming with wondering
eyes.

- My wife!

... Heavens!

It is said that Mrs. Moreno burst into tears and reproaches against
her husband, but I that I saw him in 1857 in Marysville, I have not
ever believed.

     Wingdam Chronicle the following week, under the title "poignant scene,"
     said
     
     "In our city, where frequent are events and incidents every
     kind, took place yesterday one of the most tender poignant in
     the history of California. The wife one of the most eminent
     of Wingdam pionners, tired of expires Eastern civilization and its
     unpleasant weather, resolved join her noble husband in these golden
     beaches, and no news of his intention, made the long journey, arriving
     will thing about eight days.

The joy of the husband is to imagine more that described. It is said that the meeting was indescribably
dramatic. We hope this example will have imitators. "

From this fact, whether by the influence of Madame de Moreno or lucky speculation, Moreno's
financial situation improved dramatically. After a short time, bought the stake its partners in
the mine Nip-and-Tack, with money, who won the poker said a week or two after the arrival of
his wife, but the cursing, taking the view Ms. Moreno on the conversion of her husband, attributed
to Melin.

Also built and furnished the Wingdam House, that the attractions of his wife always kept overflowing
with guests; was elected to the assembly, made donations to churches and gave his name to a
street Village.

His character did not participate, however, this prosperity. Notos that was enriched as Tornabe
pale, gaunt and moody, and his fear and concern grew the more increased popularity of his wife.
Him, the philandering of men, was jealous to the absurd. As whispered, if not meddled in the social
freedom of his wife, was because their first and only trial of its kind, had resulted in a
serious dispute with lady, who imposed silence, willy-nilly. The fair sex was the one who took
part active in these gossip and understood, as it had been supplanted in the amorous attentions
of Wingdam, which, like all popular hobbies of admiration worshiped the power of male strength
or feminine beauty. Remember in his defense, that since coming had been the unconscious priestess
of a cult object that ennobles the mythological most that the peculiar
sex in ancient Greece.

Moreno vaguely suspected this, and his only James was confident Melin, whose bad reputation forbade
a close friendship with the family whose visits are not repeated very often.

Summer sent all its rigors, and a moonlit night, Ms. Moreno, with her wide eyes, rosy and pretty
as always, sat in the square enjoying the perfumed incense of the
mountain breeze, incense and other not so pure nor so innocent, because
sat beside Colonel Roberto Estrella and Judge Bob, and a tourist newly
added the meeting.

- What do you see in the distance, on the way?
- The gallant colonel said, noting that since few minutes ago the
attention of Ms. Moreno was set to that point.

- A cloud of dust
- said with a sigh the challenged .-- I see the flock of Sister Anne

The
military's literary memories no deeper than the previous week's newspaper,
so I got it at face value.

- There are sheep - continued - a rider.

Judge, is not one of James Melin thrush?

But the judge did not know, and according to Ms. Moreno, the air was
too strong for further investigation, so that had to withdraw.

The jealous husband was on the block, where generally retired after
dinner.

Perhaps I did it to show their displeasure at his wife's colleagues, perhaps along the lines
of many weak natures, he found a pleasure in the exercise of power
over animals lower.

Felt a certain satisfaction in taming a horse pious, which could hit or caress at will, which
could do with his wife. On entering the stable, recognized a certain gray horse which had
just come in, and looking a little further he saw his owner. Saluted cordial and sincere, rather sullenly
corresponding Melin. However, accessing the importunate efforts of Moreno, followed by a staircase
excused, to a narrow corridor and thence to a small interior room with window, simply furnished with
a bed, table, some chairs, whips and a showcase for shotguns.

- That's my house - Moreno said with a sigh, leaning over the bed and beckoned her partner to take
seat .-- Your room is on the other end of the building. More six months since we lived together
and we have seen, outside mealtimes. What sad role for the head of
the family!

Right? - Said with a forced laugh, - but I'm glad see James, I'm glad to see you immensely.

I
leaned over the edge of the bed to shake hands with Melin, who remained silent.

- I wanted subieses here, not wanting to speak on the block, although he knows that throughout
the city. Do not light the candle.

We can talk like that, in light of the moon. Support your feet on
this couch and sit here by my side.

In this jar is good anise.

James did not use the notice.

Calaveras Moreno turned to face the wall and continued:

- No matter if I love her, James. But love her and seeing her one day after another day to follow
in this ethos, as it is doing, and I do not put the slightest cortapisa
... Ie what kills me!

But I'm glad to see you, James, me infinitely happy.

And tempted in the dark, until he could shake hands with his confidant.

Had retained the him, but James slipped it into his coat buttoned and casually asked how long was
that this lasted.

- Since coming from the same day he entered the Magnolia. At the time I was a clumsy, John, and
now I'm a clumsy too, but I did not know how much he loved so far. And no is the same woman.

But
this is not everything I wanted to talk about something else, and I'm glad you came. It is not
just that I love, and flirt with the first show, they played perhaps their love and lost,
as I did with everything else in the Magnolia, and is perhaps the
coquetry natural in some women, this would not be serious, but for
the fools who are seduced.

But Friend ... I think he loves another. Do not leave me, James, do not leave me, if your gun
bothers you, throw it away.

Thing six months ago that I worried and sad, and as nervous and moody.

And sometimes I've caught looking shy and compassionate. Communicate with someone. I have observed
has collected his things ... dresses, trinkets and jewels. James, I think preparing for a flight.
And I swear that does not stand for it. Everything, except to drain
as a treacherous thief.

Strongly supported her face in the pillow, and for a few moments there
was no noise but the ticking clock on the table.

Melin lit a cigar and walked to the open window.

The moon did not illuminate the room, and bed and which were occupied
in the dark.

- What to solve, Jacob? - Said a deep voice.

The answer flashed early and clearly.

- Find the man and kill him instantly.

- James!

- He who loves danger shall perish in it!

- But this I shall return?

James did not answer, but away from the window, intending to retire.

-
Do not go yet, James, light the candle and sit down at the table.

At the very least, be happy for me not to see you occupy this site.

The informant hesitated and agreed to out of pocket, pulling out a
deck.

Revolviola looking glanced at the bed. But Moreno had his face turned toward the wall. When
Melin were shuffled, cut and put a letter on the opposite side of the table to the bed, and
another at his side at the table intended for him. The first was an ace, his king. Shuffled and cut. This
time the dummy [11] touched a jack and him a four. Animose for the third round. It fell to his opponent
an ace and a king took over for himself.

- Three, two - James said loudly.

- What is it, Melin? - Asked Moreno.

- Nothing.

Melin tested after luck with the dice, but always threw sixes and
his supposed adversary to aces.

- This is amazing - said the auto
playable.

Meanwhile, a latent magnetic influence in the presence of James, or
bland beverage, or perhaps both at the same time ease the pain of
Moreno, who was asleep.

Melin then approached his chair to the window, and looked Wingdam
City, at the time peacefully asleep under their harsh outlines and
garish colors, harmonized by the moon shed light about the outlook.

In the midst of silent night, could hear the murmur of the water in the canals and the breath
of air in the nearby pine forest.

He raised his eyes to the sky, at the time that a star running through
the black sky behind her again, and again crossed swiftly later, leaving
behind a trail of light.

The phenomenon suggested to James a new sign.

- If within fifteen
minutes another star should fall ...

Watch in hand remained in that
position twice that interval, but phenomenon was not repeated.

The bell struck two and Moreno was still sleeping.

Melin came to the table and took from his pocket a note that read
in the flickering light of the candle.

It contained more than a single line, written in pencil with feminine
handwriting.

"Wait for the corral with boghey at three."

Moreno was stirred restlessly and finally woke up.

- James! Are you there?

- Yes.

I beg do not leave yet.

Now dreaming, dreaming of times past, Susan and I got married again and the priest, James,
was ... Do you know who it was? You!

Melin laughed and sat on the bed, with the paper in the toes.

- Is
it a good sign? - Asked Moreno.

- I think: Say, man, would not it
be better to get up?

Calaveras Moreno rose with the help of the hand that offered Melin.

- I think you smoke.

Moreno took the cigar which mechanically stretched.

- Fire?

James rolled the letter spiral, lit it and offered him his friend.

He remained with her in fingers, until he had consumed, and pulled out that as the shining
star, fell window below. Followed him by sight and then turned to Moreno.

- My friend - said putting his hands on the shoulders of his friend, - I stand in six minutes
on the road and I fade away as the flame. Not meet again, but before I leave take the advice
of a madman. Have settled everything and take your wife away from this site. Not the place for you
or for her. Tidings that must go: to compel them to leave, if not you willingly. Do not regret
not being a Socrates or her an angel. Remember that If you treat
her like a man and a woman.

Do not be stupid.

Abur.

Desprendiose Moreno's arms and jumped down the stairs like a deer. Once on the block took the
boy asleep in the middle neck and pushed him against the wall.

- Put the saddle my horse instantly, or you ...

The dilemma was terrible and easy to understand.

- The woman said she hooked boghey for you - stammered the unhappy.

- To hell with boghey!

The thrush was saddled as fast as the nervous hands of the astonished boy could drive belts and buckles.

The
boy, who, like all his class, admired the thrust of his fiery patron, and really was interested
in their fate could not but ask:

- Is there anything, sir?

- Get out of there!

The waiter turned away shyly. There was a whip
and a blasphemy, James kicked the horse and walking and tended to
trot.

A moment later, the sleepy eyes of the young man was only a
small cloud shifting dust on the horizon to where a star, separated
from her sisters, leaving a trail bright.

The inhabitants on the
banks Wingdam Road, heard at dawn as a vibrant voice the lark singing
over the plain. Those who slept rough were stirred in their beds to
dream of youth, love and life. Rough peasants face and eager seekers
gold, already at work, ceased their labors and leaned upon their picks
to listen to this romantic adventurer, noting in light of the rosy
dawn, he rode to step Castilian.

CAROLINA

(Episode of Fiddletown)

I

In
the town of Fiddletown was regarded worldwide as a beautiful woman.
His good figure, highlighted by a mop of brown hair splendid characterized
by a beautiful color and a certain languid grace which lent him a
something interesting and distinguished. Dressed Always taste and
Fiddletown was the rage. He had only two flaws: a its velvety eyes,
examined closely, deviating slightly, and stained his cheek left a
small scar caused by a drop of vitriol, a happily single whole bottle
that had cast a jealous rival, with the malicious intent to disfigure
Jerne so beautiful. However, when the observer reached to notice the
irregularity of look, it was usually unable to criticize it and there
were some who claimed that the stain on his cheek he added more charm
and grace. The young editor of The Avalanche, of Fiddletown, argued
privately that it was a hidden dimple and Colonel Roberto reminded
freckles tempting time of Queen Anne, and especially to one of the
most beautiful damn women and, yes, damn them! they never have been
fixed in human eyes. Was a native of New Orleans. This woman had a
scar, one that crossed seams (a faith that is true), from the right
eye to mouth. And this woman, friend, we penetrated to a ... friend,
you crazy ... actually condemned him with his damn soul fascination.
A day I said:

- Celeste, how the hell you did that damn scar? I ain't a-goin' ter tech
a old man like him, an' my wife's father, so I ax in the name o' peace fur the law. Don't deny
it"--with a warning glance--"'kase I ain't school-larned, an' dunno how ter get it. Don't ye
deny me the law! I know the law don't 'low a magistrate an' a jestice ter cuss in his high
office, in the presence of the county court. I want the law! I want the law!"

The chairman of the court, who had risen in his excitement, turning eagerly first to one and
then to the other of the speakers, striving to silence the colloquy, and in the sudden surprise
of it at a momentary loss how to take action, sat down abruptly, and with a face of consternation.
Profanity seemed to him so usual and necessary an incident of conversation that it had never
occurred to him until this moment that by some strange aberration from the rational estimate
of essentials it was entered in the code as a violation of law. He would fain have overlooked
it, but the room was crowded with spectators. The chairman would be a candidate for re-election
as justice of the peace at the expiration of his term. And after all what was old Quimbey to
him, or he to old Quimbey, that, with practically the whole town looking on, he should destroy
his political prospects and disregard the dignity of his office. He had a certain twinge of
conscience, and a recollection of the choice and fluent oaths of his own repertory, but as
he turned over the pages of the code in search of the section he deftly argued that they were
uttered in his own presence as a person, not as a justice.

And so for the first time old Joel Quimbey appeared as a law-breaker, and was duly fined by
the worshipful county court fifty cents for each oath, that being the price at which the State
rates the expensive and impious luxury of swearing in the hearing of a justice of the peace,
and which in its discretion the court saw fit to adopt in this instance.

The old man offered no remonstrance; he said not a word in his own defence. He silently drew
out his worn wallet, with much contortion of his thin old anatomy in getting to his pocket,
and paid his fines on the spot. Absalom had already left the room, the clerk having made out
the certificates, the chairman of the court casting the scalps into the open door of the stove,
that they might be consumed by fire according to law.

The young mountaineer wore a heavy frown, and his heart was ill at ease. He sought some satisfaction
in the evident opinion of the crowd which now streamed out, for the excitements within were
over, that he had done a fine thing; a very clever thought, they considered it, to demand the
law of Mr. Chairman, that one of their worships should be dragged from the bench and arraigned
before the quarterly county court of which he was a member. The result gave general satisfaction,
although there were those who found fault with the court's moderation, and complained that
the least possible cognizance had been taken of the offence.

"Ho! ho! ho!" laughed an old codger in the street. "I jes knowed that hurt old Joel Quimbey
wuss 'n ef a body hed druv a knife through him; he's been so proud o' bein' jestice 'mongst
his betters, an' bein' 'lected at las', many times ez he hev run. Waal, Abs'lom, ye hev proved
thar's law fur jestices too. I tell ye ye hev got sense in yer skull-i-bone."

But Absalom hung his head before these congratulations; he found no relish in the old man's
humbled pride. Yet had he not cursed the baby, lumping him among the Kittredges? Absalom went
about for a time, with a hopeful anxiety in his eyes, searching for one of the younger Quim-beys,
in order to involve him in a fight that might have a provocation and a result more to his mind.
Somehow the recollection of the quivering and aged figure of his wife's father, of the smitten
look on his old face, of his abashed and humbled demeanor before the court, was a reproach
to him, vivid and continuously present with his repetitious thoughts forever re-enacting the
scene. His hands trembled; he wanted to lay hold on a younger man, to replace this aesthetic
revenge with a quarrel more wholesome in the estimation of his own conscience. But the Quimbey
sons were not in town to-day. He could only stroll about and hear himself praised for this
thing that he had done, and wonder how he should meet Evelina with his conscience thus arrayed
against himself for her father's sake. "Plumb turned Quimbey, I swear," he said, in helpless
reproach to this independent and coercive moral force within. His dejection, he supposed, had
reached its lowest limits, when a rumor pervaded the town, so wild that he thought it could
be only fantasy.

It proved to be fact. Joel Quimbey, aggrieved, humbled, and indignant, had resigned his office,
and as Absalom rode out of town toward the mountains, he saw the old man in his crumpled brown
jeans suit, mounted on his white mare, jogging down the red clay road, his head bowed before
the slanting lines of rain, on his way to his cheerless fireside. He turned off presently,
for the road to the levels of the Cove was not the shorter cut that Absalom travelled to the
mountains. But all the way the young man fancied that he saw from time to time, as the bridle-path
curved in the intricacies of the laurel, the bowed old figure among the mists, jogging along,
his proud head and his stiff neck bent to the slanting rain and the buffets of his unkind fate.
And yet, pressing the young horse to overtake him, Absalom could find naught but the fleecy
mists drifting down the bridle-path as the wind might will, or lurking in the darkling nooks
of the laurel when the wind would.

*****

The sun was shining on the mountains, and Absalom went up from the sad gray rain and through
the gloomy clouds of autumn hanging over the Cove into a soft brilliant upper atmosphere--a
generous after-thought of summer--and the warm brightness of Evelina's smile. She stood in
the doorway as she saw him dismounting, with her finger on her lips, for the baby was sleeping:
he put much of his time into that occupation. The tiny gourds hung yellow among the vines that
clambered over the roof of the porch, and a brave jack-bean--a friend of the sheltering eaves--made
shift to bloom purple and white, though others of the kind hung, crisp and sere, and rattled
their dry bones in every gust. The "gyarden spot" at the side of the house was full of brown
and withered skeletons of the summer growths; among the crisp blades of the Indian-corn a sibilant
voice was forever whispering; down the tawny-colored vistas the pumpkins glowed. The sky was
blue; the yellow hickory flaming against it and hanging over the roof of the cabin was a fine
color to see. The red sour-wood tree in the fence corner shook out a myriad of white tassels;
the rolling tumult of the gray clouds below thickened, and he could hear the rain a-falling--falling
into the dreary depths of the Cove.

All this for him: why should he disquiet himself for the storm that burst upon others?

Evelina seemed a part of the brightness; her dark eyes so softly alight, her curving red lips,
the faint flush in her cheeks, her rich brown hair, and the purplish kerchief about the neck
of her yellow dress. Once more she looked smilingly at him, and shook her head and laid her
finger on her lip.

"I oughter been sati'fied with all I got, stiddier hectorin' other folks till they 'ain't got
no heart ter hold on ter what they been at sech trouble ter git," he said, as he turned out
the horse and strode gloomily toward the house with the saddle over his arm.

"Hev ennybody been spiteful ter you-uns ter-day?" she asked, in an almost maternal solicitude,
and with a flash of partisan anger in her eyes.

"Git out'n my road, Eveliny," he said, fretfully, pushing by, and throwing the saddle on the
floor. There was no one in the room but the occupant of the rude box on rockers which served
as cradle.

Absalom had a swift, prescient fear. "She'll git it all out'n me ef I don't look sharp," he
said to himself. Then aloud, "Whar's mam?" he demanded, flinging himself into a chair and looking
loweringly about.

"Topknot hev jes kem off'n her nest with fourteen deedies, an' she an' 'Melia hev gone ter
the barn ter see 'bout'n 'em."

"Whar's Pete?"

"A-huntin'."

A pause. The fire smouldered audibly; a hickory-nut fell with a sharp thwack on the clapboards
of the roof, and rolled down and bounded to the ground.

Suddenly: "I seen yer dad ter-day," he began, without coercion. "He gin me a cussin', in the
courtroom, 'fore all the folks. He cussed all the Kit-tredges, all o' 'em; him too"--he glanced
in the direction of the cradle--"cussed 'em black an' blue, an' called me a thief fur marryin'
ye an kerry-in' ye off."

Her face turned scarlet, then pale. She sat down, her trembling hands reaching out to rock
the cradle, as if the youthful Kittredge might be disturbed by the malediction hurled upon
his tribe. But he slept sturdily on.

"Waal, now," she said, making a great effort at self-control, "ye oughtn't ter mind it. Ye
know he war powerful tried. I never purtended ter be ez sweet an' pritty ez the baby air, but
how would you-uns feel ef somebody ye despised war ter kem hyar an' tote him off from we-uns
forever?"

"I'd cut thar hearts out," he said, with prompt barbarity.

"Thar, now!" exclaimed his wife, in triumphant logic.

He gloomily eyed the smouldering coals. He was beginning to understand the paternal sentiment.
By his own heart he was learning the heart of his wife's father.

"I'd chop 'em inter minch-meat," he continued, carrying his just reprisals a step further.

"Waal, don't do it right now," said his wife, trying to laugh, yet vaguely frightened by his
vehemence.

"Eveliny," he cried, springing to his feet, "I be a-goin' ter tell ye all 'bout'n it. I jes
called on the cheerman fur the law agin him."

"Agin dad!--the law!"' Her voice dropped as she contemplated aghast this terrible unapprehended
force brought to oppress old Joel Quim-bey; she felt a sudden poignant pang for his forlorn
and lonely estate.

"Never mind, never mind, Eveliny," Absalom said, hastily, repenting of his frantic candor and
seeking to soothe her.

"I will mind," she said, sternly. "What hev ye done ter dad?"

"Nuthin'," he replied, sulkily--"nuthin'."

"Ye needn't try ter fool me, Abs'lom Kittredge. Ef ye ain't minded ter tell me, I'll foot it
down ter town an' find out. What did the law do ter him?"

"Jes fined him," he said, striving to make light of it.

"An' ye done that fur--spite!" she cried. "A-set-tin' the law ter chouse a old man out'n money,
fur gittin' mad an' sayin' ye stole his only darter. Oh, I'll answer fur him"--she too had
risen; her hand trembled on the back of the chair, but her face was scornfully smiling--"he
don't mind the money; he'll never git you-uns fined ter pay back the gredge. He don't take
his wrath out on folkses' wallets; he grips thar throats, or teches the trigger o' his rifle.
Laws-a-massy! takin' out yer gredge that-a-way! It's ye poorer fur them dollars, Abs'lom--'tain't
him." She laughed satirically, and turned to rock the cradle.

"What d'ye want me ter do? Fight a old man?" he exclaimed, angrily.

She kept silence, only looking at him with a flushed cheek and a scornful laughing eye.

He went on, resentfully: "I ain't 'shamed," he stoutly asserted. "Nobody 'lowed I oughter be,
It's him, plumb bowed down with shame."

"The shoe's on the t'other foot," she cried. "It's ye that oughter be 'shamed, an' ef ye ain't,
it's more shame ter ye. What hev he got ter be 'shamed of?"

"'Kase," he retorted, "he war fetched up afore a court on a crim'nal offence--a-cussin' afore
the court! Ye may think it's no shame, but he do; he war so 'shamed he gin up his office ez
jestice o' the peace, what he hev run fur four or five times, an' always got beat 'ceptin' wunst."

"Dad!" but for the whisper she seemed turning to stone; her dilated eyes were fixed as she
stared into his face.

"An' I seen him a-ridin' off from town in the rain arterward, his head hangin' plumb down ter
the saddle-bow."

Her amazed eyes were still fastened upon his face, but her hand no longer trembled on the back
of the chair.

He suddenly held out his own hand to her, his sympathy and regret returning as he recalled
the picture of the lonely wayfarer in the rain that had touched him so. "Oh, Eveliny!" he cried,
"I never war so beset an' sorry an'--"

She struck his hand down; her eyes blazed. Her aspect was all instinct with anger.

"I do declar' I'll never furgive ye--ter spite him so--an' kem an' tell me! An' shame him so
ez he can't hold his place--an' kem an' tell me! An' bow him down so ez he can't show his face
whar he hev been so respected by all--an' kem an' tell me! An' all fur spite, fur he hev got
nuthin' ye want now. An' I gin him up an' lef him lonely, an' all fur you-uns. Ye air mean,
Abs'lom Kit-tredge, an' I'm the mos' fursaken fool on the face o' the yearth!"

He tried to speak, but she held up her hand in expostulation.

"Nare word--fur I won't answer. I do declar' I'll never speak ter ye agin ez long ez I live."

He flung away with a laugh and a jeer. "That's right," he said, encouragingly; "plenty o' men
would be powerful glad ef thar wives would take pattern by that."

He caught up his hat and strode out of the room. He busied himself in stabling his horse, and
in looking after the stock. He could hear the women's voices from the loft of the barn as they
disputed about the best methods of tending the newly hatched chickens, that had chipped the
shell so late in the fall as to be embarrassed by the frosts and the coming cold weather. The
last bee had ceased to drone about the great crimson prince's-feather by the door-step, worn
purplish through long flaunting, and gone to seed. The clouds were creeping up and up the slope,
and others were journeying hither from over the mountains. A sense of moisture was in the air,
although a great column of dust sprang up from the dry corn-field, with panic-stricken suggestions,
and went whirling away, carrying off withered blades in the rush. The first drops of rain were
pattering, with a resonant timbre in the midst, when Pete came home with a newly killed deer
on his horse, and the women, with fluttering skirts and sun-bonnets, ran swiftly across from
the barn to the back door of the shed-room. Then the heavy downpour made the cabin rock.

"Why, Eveliny an' the baby oughtn't ter be out in this hyar rain--they'll be drenched," said
the old woman, when they were all safely housed except the two. "Whar be she?"

"A-foolin' in the gyarden spot a-getherin' seed an' sech, like she always be," said the sister-in-law,
tartly.

Absalom ran out into the rain without his hat, his heart in the clutch of a prescient terror.
No; the summer was over for the garden as well as for him; all forlorn and rifled, its few
swaying shrubs tossed wildly about, a mockery of the grace and bloom that had once embellished
it. His wet hair Streaming backward in the wind caught on the laurel boughs as he went down
and down the tangled path that her homesick feet had worn to the crag which overlooked the
Cove. Not there! He stood, himself enveloped in the mist, and gazed blankly into the folds
of the dun-colored clouds that with tumultuous involutions surged above the valley and baffled
his vision. He realized it with a sinking heart. She was gone.

*****

That afternoon--it was close upon nightfall--Stephen Quimbey, letting down the bars for the
cows, noticed through the slanting lines of rain, serried against the masses of sober-hued
vapors which hid the great mountain towering above the Cove, a woman crossing the foot-bridge.
He turned and lifted down another bar, and then looked again. Something was familiar in her
aspect, certainly. He stood gravely staring. Her sun-bonnet had fallen back upon her shoulders,
and was hanging loosely there by the strings tied beneath her chin; her brown hair, dishevelled'
by the storm, tossed back and forth in heavy wave-less locks, wet through and through. When
the wind freshened they lashed, thong-like, her pallid oval face; more than once she put up
her hand and tried to gather them together, or to press them back--only one hand, for she clasped
a heavy bundle in her arms, and as she toiled along slowly up the rocky slope, Stephen suddenly
held his palm above his eyes. The recognition was becoming definite, and yet he could scarcely
believe his senses: was it indeed Evelina, wind-tossed, tempest-beaten, and with as many tears
as rain-drops on her pale cheek? Evelina, forlorn and sorry, and with swollen sad dark eyes,
and listless exhausted step--here again at the bars, where she had not stood since she dragged
her wounded lover thence on-that eventful night two years and more ago.

Resentment for the domestic treachery was uppermost in his mind, and he demanded surlily, when
she had advanced within the sound of his words, "What hev ye kem hyar fur?"

"Ter stay," she responded, briefly.

His hand in an uncertain gesture laid hold upon his tuft of beard.

"Fur good?" he faltered, amazed.

She nodded silently.

He stooped to lift down the lowest bar that she might pass. Suddenly the bundle she clasped
gave a dexterous twist; a small head, with yellow downy hair, was thrust forth; a pair of fawn-like
eyes fixed an inquiring stare upon him; the pink face distended with a grin, to which the two
small teeth in the red mouth, otherwise empty, lent a singularly merry expression; and with
a manner that was a challenge to pursuit, the head disappeared as suddenly as it had appeared,
tucked with affected shyness under Evelina's arm.

She left Stephen standing with the bar in his hand, staring blankly after her, and ran into
the cabin.

Her father had no questions to ask--nor she.

As he caught her in his arms he gave a great cry of joy that rang through the house, and brought
Timothy from the barn, in astonishment, to the scene.

"Eveliny's home!" he cried out to Tim, who, with the ox-yoke in his hand, paused in the doorway.
"Kem ter stay! Eveliny's home! I knowed she'd kem back to her old daddy. Eveliny's kem ter
stay fur good."

"They tole me they'd hectored ye plumb out'n the town an' out'n yer office. They hed the insurance
ter tell me that word!" she cried, sobbing on his breast.

"What d'ye reckon I keer fur enny jestice's cheer when I hev got ye agin ter set alongside
o' me by the fire?" he exclaimed, his cracked old voice shrill with triumphant gladness.

He pushed her into her rocking-chair in the chimney-corner, and laughed again with the supreme
pleasure of the moment, although she had leaned her head against the logs of the wall, and
was sobbing aloud with the contending emotions that tore her heart.

"Didn't ye ever want ter kem afore, Eveliny?" he demanded. "I hev been a-pinin' fur a glimge
o' ye." He was in his own place now, his hands trembling as they lay on the arms of his chair;
a pathetic reproach was in his voice. "Though old folks oughtn't ter expec' too much o' young
ones, ez be all tuk up naterally with tharse'fs," he added, bravely. He would not let his past
lonely griefs mar the bright present. "Old folks air mos'ly cumber-ers--mos'ly cumberers o'
the yearth, ennyhow."

Her weeping had ceased; she was looking at him with dismayed surprise in her eyes, still lustrous
with unshed tears. "Why, dad I sent ye a hundred messages ef I mought kem. I tole Abs'lom ter
tell Joe Boyd--bein' as ye liked Joe--I wanted ter see ye." She leaned forward and looked up
at him with frowning intensity. "They never gin ye that word?"

He laughed aloud in sorry scorn. "We can't teach our chil'n nuthin'," he philosophized. "They
hev got ter hurt tharse'fs with all the thorns an' the stings o' the yearth. Our sperience
with the sharp things an' bitter ones don't do them no sarvice. Naw, leetle darter--naw! Ye
mought ez well gin a message o' kindness ter a wolf, an' expec' him ter kerry it ter some lonesome,
helpless thing a-wounded by the way-side, ez gin it ter a Kittredge."

"I never will speak ter one o' 'em agin ez long ez I live," she cried, with a fresh gust of tears.

"Waal," exclaimed the old man, reassuringly, and chirping high, "hyar we all be agin, jes'
the same ez we war afore. Don't cry, Eveliny; it's jes' the same."

A sudden babbling intruded upon the conversation. The youthful Kittredge, as he sat upon the
wide flat stones of the hearth, was as unwelcome here in the Cove as a Quimbey had been in
the cabin on the mountain. The great hickory fire called for his unmixed approval, coming in,
as he had done, from the gray wet day. He shuffled his bare pink feet--exceedingly elastic
and agile members they seemed to be, and he had a remarkable "purchase" upon their use--and
brought them smartly down upon their heels as if this were one of the accepted gestures of
applause. Then he looked up at the dark frowning faces of his mother's brothers, and gurgled
with laughter, showing the fascinating spectacle of his two front teeth. Perhaps it was the
only Kittredge eye that they were not willing to meet. They solemnly gazed beyond him and into
the fire, ignoring his very existence. He sustained the slight with an admirable cheerfulness,
and babbled and sputtered and flounced about with his hands. He grew pinker in the generous
firelight, and he looked very fat as he sat in a heap on the floor. He seemed to have threads
tightly tied about his bolster-shaped limbs in places where elder people prefer joints--in
his ankles and wrists and elbows--for his arms were bare, and although his frock of pink calico
hung decorously high on one shoulder, it drooped quite off from the other, showing a sturdy chest.

His mother took slight notice of him; she was beginning to look about the room with a certain
critical disfavor at the different arrangement of the household furniture adopted by her father's
deaf and widowed old sister who presided here now, and who, it chanced, had been called away
by the illness of a relative. Evelina got up presently, and shifted the position of the spinning-wheels,
placing the flax-wheel where the large wheel had been. She then pushed out the table from the
corner. "What ailed her ter sot it hyar?" she grumbled, in a disaffected undertone, and shoved
it to the centre of the floor, where it had always stood during her own sway. She cast a discerning
glance up among the strings of herbs and peppers hanging from above, and examined the shelves
where the simple stores for table use were arranged in earthen-ware bowls or gourds--all with
an air of vague dissatisfaction. She presently stepped into the shed-room, and there looked
over the piles of quilts. They were in order, certainly, but placed in a different method from
her own; another woman's hand had been at work, and she was jealous of its very touch among
these familiar old things to which she seemed positively akin. "I wonder how I made out ter
bide so long on the mounting," she said; and with the recollection of the long-haired Absalom
there was another gush of tears and sobs, which she stifled as she could in one of the old
quilts that held many of her own stitches and was soothing to touch.

The infantile Kittredge, who was evidently not born to blush unseen, seemed to realize that
he had failed to attract the attention of the three absorbed Quimbeys who sat about the fire.
He blithely addressed himself to another effort. He suddenly whisked himself over on all-fours,
and with a certain ursine aspect went nimbly across the hearth, still holding up his downy
yellow head, his pink face agrin, and alluringly displaying his two facetious teeth. He caught
the rung of Tim's chair, and lifted himself tremulously to an upright posture. And then it
became evident that he was about to give an exhibition of the thrilling feat of walking around
a chair. With a truly Kittredge perversity he had selected the one that had the savage Timothy
seated in it. For an instant the dark-browed face scowled down into his unaffrighted eyes:
it seemed as if Tim might kick him into the fire. The next moment he had set out to circumnavigate,
as it were. What a prodigious force he expended upon it! How he gurgled and grinned and twisted
his head to observe the effect upon the men, all sedulously gazing into the fire! how he bounced,
and anon how he sank with sudden genuflections! how limber his feet seemed, and what free agents!
Surely he never intended to put them down at that extravagant angle. More than once one foot
was placed on top of the other--an attitude that impeded locomotion and resulted in his sitting
down in an involuntary manner and with some emphasis. With an appalling temerity he clutched
Tim's great miry boots to help him up and on his way round. Occasionally he swayed to and fro,
with his teeth on exhibition, laughing and babbling and shrilly exclaiming, inarticulately
bragging of his agile prowess, as if he were able to defy all the Quimbeys, who would not notice
him. And when it was all over he went in his wriggling ursine gait back to the hearth-stone,
and there he was sitting, demurely enough, and as if he had never moved, when his mother returned
and found him.

There was no indication that he had attracted a moment's attention. She looked gravely down
at him; then took her chair. A pair of blue yarn socks was in her hand. "I never see sech darnin'
ez Aunt Sairy Ann do fur ye, dad; I hev jes tuk my shears an' cut this heel smang out, an'
I be goin' ter do it over."

She slipped a tiny gourd into the heel, and began to draw the slow threads to and fro across it.

The blaze, red and yellow, and with elusive purple gleams, leaped up the chimney. The sap was
still in the wood; it sang a summer-tide song. But an autumn wind was blowing shrilly down
the chimney; one could hear the sibilant rush of the dead leaves on the blast. The window and
the door shook, and were still, and once more rattled as if a hand were on the latch.

Suddenly--"Ever weigh him?" her father asked.

She sat upright with a nervous start. It was a moment before she understood that it was of
the Kittredge scion he spoke.

With his high cracked laugh the old man leaned over, his outspread hand hovering about the
plump baby, uncertain where, in so much soft fatness, it might be practicable to clutch him.
There were some large horn buttons on the back of his frock, a half-dozen of which, gathered
together, afforded a grasp. He lifted the child by them, laughing in undisguised pleasure to
feel the substantial strain upon the garment.

"Toler'ble survigrus," he declared, with his high chirp.

His daughter suddenly sprang up with a pallid face and a pointing hand.

"The winder!" she huskily cried--"suthin's at the winder!"

But when they looked they saw only the dark square of tiny panes, with the fireside scene genially
reflected on it. And then she fell to declaring that she had been dreaming, and besought them
not to take down their guns nor to search, and would not be still until they had all seemed
to concede the point; it was she who fastened the doors and shutters, and she did not lie down
to rest till they were all asleep and hours had passed. None of them doubted that it was Absalom's
face that she had seen at the window, where the light had once lured him before, and she knew
that she had dreamed no dream like this.

*****

It soon became evident that whenever Joe Boyd was intrusted with a message he would find means
to deliver it. For upon him presently devolved the difficult duties of ambassador. The first
time that his honest square face appeared at the rail fence, and the sound of his voice roused
Evelina as she stood feeding the poultry close by, she returned his question with a counter-question
hard to answer.

"I hev been up the mounting," he said, smiling, as he hooked his arms over the rail fence.
"Abs'-lom he say he wanter know when ye'll git yer visit out an' kem home."

She leaned her elbow against the ash-hopper, balancing the wooden bowl of corn-meal batter
on its edge and trembling a little; the geese and chickens and turkeys crowded, a noisy rout,
about her feet.

"Joe," she said, irrelevantly, "ye air one o' the few men on this yearth ez ain't a liar."

He stared at her gravely for a moment, then burst into a forced laugh. "Ho! ho! I tell a bushel
o' 'em a day, Eveliny!" He wagged his head in an anxious affectation of mirth.

"Why'n't ye gin dad them messages ez Abs'lom gin ye from me?"

Joe received this in blank amaze; then, with sudden comprehension, his lower jaw dropped. He
looked at her with a plea for pity in his eyes. And yet his ready tact strove to reassert itself.

"I mus' hev furgot 'em," he faltered.

"Did Abs'lom ever gin 'em ter ye?" she persisted.

"Ef he did, I mus' hev furgot 'em," he repeated, crestfallen and hopeless.

She laughed and turned jauntily away, once more throwing the corn-meal batter to the greedily
jostling poultry. "Tell Abs'lom I hev fund him out," she said. "He can't sot me agin dad no
sech way. This be my home, an' hyar I be goin' ter 'bide."

And so she left the good Joe Boyd hooked on by the elbows to the fence.

The Quimbeys, who had heard this conversation from within, derived from it no small elation.
"She hev gin 'em the go-by fur good," Timothy said, confidently, to his father, who laughed
in triumph, and pulled calmly at his pipe, and looked ten years younger.

But Steve was surlily anxious. "I'd place heap mo' dependence in Eveliny ef she didn't hev
this hyar way o' cryin' all the time. She 'lows she's glad she kem--so glad she hev lef Abs'lom
fur good an' all--an' then she busts out a-cryin' agin. I ain't able ter argufy on sech."

"Shucks! wimmen air always a-cryin', an' they don't mean nuthin' by it," exclaimed the old
man, in the plenitude of his wisdom. "It air jes' one o' thar most contrarious ways. With
this decision I have tackled, if not all, much of the injustice they were doing, and I have
a regular shape the economic governance of the peoples and the harmony that should be between
the mayor, council and manager of each establishment.

I tried all my attempted to encourage agriculture and industry, encouraging them to my exhortations
and advice, and for which applied more effort, increased the ration of meat to them was a third
more, and so I managed not to be applied rigorously to work, and seeing Pay all debts, and increased
cattle on farms, which at present have about 80,000 head more than you had my income, and proportion
is to increase the boyadas, mares, foals, horses, mules and sheep, not being less known advantage
in chacarería. Have increased the cotton, planted reeds repaired yerbales and improved in all branches
of agriculture have also sought new homes are built among all peoples, and that the consequences
of which had, as well as churches and main houses. Although this has not advanced as much as I wanted,
because the lack of construction workers as prevented, it has been so little has been done
is not known quite unlike now as they were before. But, to have achieved these advancements,
I have had to be go at least every two months, all peoples, see their mills and chacarería, improve
what was not as needed, to establish what it considered useful to encourage the Indians and
not forgive diligence and fatigue as deemed appropriate to the achievement of overtaking.
Up the same rooms I visited, however to be very separate peoples (some far more than 40 leagues)
I recognized all its land, people, places, rodeos, pens, status of their livestock, tools of
the workmen and, finally, the knowledge can lead to Practical them remedied many abuses and other faults
I found, leaving established with advice from two foremen and experience working as thought
it might be useful to increase and good cattle, and success has been matched according to my
wishes.

Seeing that one of the main causes that mattered to the gloom in which they lived these was natural
indecency and filth with which they treated in their homes, ensure that both magistrates decent rooms
were available to them, giving them to understand what I would like to find them them and their women
with decency whenever I visited them that would be often. After Every year I set aseasen and
repair their homes inside and out all of cabildo, and so people are being improved and used
to live with decency.

For the toilet of their home accounts for its people, how they tried to persuade I would be
pleased to see that instead of tipoy, they used their women wear shirts, skirts or petticoats,
even if they are cotton canvas, and bodices or adjusters who girt his body and hide their breasts,
and that they performed more grooming would be treated for me, and would do were all more distinction.
At this point there was something to overcome, because the Indians concerned with equality that had
grown up, did not allow any stood out from the others, but at last they have been desimpresionado
this error, and toilet are introduced with no overtaking small.

As things that try to not get the desired success if command or persuade them not accompanied by the
practice of some events in which the experience aware of the favorable effects and conveniences
offered to him, so of course knew these natives what they had to follow the toilet, I ordered
that houses the main in the magistrate, or those of other Indian leaders, they are not prevented
the coupling to have their home entertainment when there is a reasonable reason and decency
and order regular, which I attended quite a few times with my wife and I always attend such
managers and their wives, so I managed to banish the hateful separation had between Spanish and
Indians, establishing treatment and mutual communication, not only as on these occasions, but
also in every day of the year that we visit with each other Spanish men and all the families
in whom shines the toilet, and this is a powerful incentive to encourage
more and more each day, as is experiencing.

Considering how few of these natural proportions have to get some overtaking, because they
lack the means to benefit through the sale, the fruits that can be purchased with their work, and
that failure to provide this benefit would be futile my efforts and Orders, I ordered that all
the fruit they collect in their particular fields and want to sell to the community, have to buy
the very, paying cash value in those fruits and effects they want or the people have, making
it necessary to book for food that year. They must also buy full price for anything that have
acquired their industry, for prices that I mentioned in a tariff
that formed for the effect.

This ruling has had favorable effects in only two years that have acquired practical many Indians a
regular conveniences, many families have been neat and tidy and not ashamed to appear before
all sorts of people, with whose company are becoming sociable and acquiring a perfect civility
prevail in all abundance, and every day is over, for the example of a stimulus serves others.
You've seen it, and so has seen the Governor Governor of this province,
and so I have no fear that seems you more expensive born of self-esteem.

Although

the common view is taken these natives as lazy and unable to poderles instill a desire to escape
poverty and despondency that are, similar to those and believe it is natural for them this neglect,
I've never been persuaded to this view. I will not deny that the mood and food can have some influence
on the strength and disposition the body and make it more or less active according to their
qualities, and more can influence, my opinion, the education, which are printed in the mind
the ideas that shape their operations, but always deny that they are unable to overcome some
hindrances, such as many think. Will agree, yes, that was hard, but that is impossible.

By repeated experiences I have known that the Guarani Indians are not as lazy as the mean, not
even noticing they must be lazy. The town of Candelaria goes to work that of Santa Maria Maggiore
four sawyers Indians, not Indians have this job in Santa Maria, to whom it was said of two
real wages each day, one for the community of its people and the other for them in that people
working from sunrise to sunset very happy for the wages they knew they were winning. If you
have arrived to dismiss two of them, have already learned to saw other Santa Maria, none of
the four wanted to be fired, everyone wanted to continue, without flinching from the hard work
of the saw, and they caused much feeling when they were fired. The same happened with those
who have worked calafates ships in San Jose, and finally, how these terms are used in work with
pleasure and commitment.

All Spanish employees in the villages have one or more Indians who serve them without giving them
more wages than food, clothing and some short realillo. And with only this very specific and efficient
servants, without ever excuse what they're told, even trabajosísima execution, and the greatest
punishment that can be given to these servants is to dismiss because is something that costs a lot
of feeling.

Any Indian who offered a short interest is ready to send whatever they want, provide care themselves,
and seeking to be preferred to others; So these are not procedures
lazy, because if they were, no interest will move to work.

Everywhere that the Indians occupy Tapes are very good paying wage
laborers, as experienced in the city of Buenos Aires and in all of
Spanish, who prefer other laborers, so the not being applied here
is because they lack the incentive of pay.

They are also noted thieves, and they do all they can steal, but it forces them the need, they crave
whatever they see, and more so there is within villages and as they wish and are not buying it, and
even if they had they would find who sold it, knowing no other way to buy, steal, if they find time.
Well is that it is not so general this defect, which not conceive infamy, perhaps because this
year he was punished for theft, do the next mayor. I discover this defect in the Indians a
willingness to civilize and make time-consuming, because once you covet brilliant, if they provided
it can be purchased at the cost of work apply hard, which does not
happen if they were looking things with indifference.

To complete this regard I refer to here as the government's particular
political and economics of these natural, according to the generality
with which it is practiced in these villages to you come more aware
of the lights, genius and habit of all.

Each village has a council composed of a mayor, deputy mayor, two mayors, four aldermen, a mayor of
brotherhood, a sheriff, a butler and a secretary, those who choose the New Year's Day, according
to the provisions in laws, with the exception of Mayor and lieutenant, who have no time. Elections
do them together eight or more days in advance, and each chapter offers an Indian to occupy
the job he exercised consultation before the will of the mayor and the administrator, which
are major in this machine rolling. While all chords, lead the list of those who think naming
the administrator, which, if you please, tell them do so, and if any of the mentioned have any blemish,
or does not like the manager, tells them that they ought not, and to indicate other than perhaps the
manager tells them, or privately hinted to the sheriff, and well done. In addition to the jobs of
council members, has designated next year all jobs military, the keepers of the chores and
head teachers of all trades and arts, so that in every village passed 80 and even 100 those who
hold offices, and if the people is short, all become mandarins, and there are few who rule.
Recent jobs Exclusively playing the sheriff the name, but he always does with the consent of the administrator,
particularly those whose occupation is the care of community assets.

Prepared lists and chords all come together on New Year's Day, early morning, and to touch cash
being published on the doors of the house of the appointed council, whose act attends all the
local people, some by curiosity, others to receive in their jobs, to take possession immediately,
without waiting for confirmation from the government. They deliver rods and sticks to the mayor
and other council members re-appointed, and officers corresponding military insignia, thence go to
Mass, and then home administrator to be present, which charges them fulfilling their obligation, and
if not already extended the agreement of the elections, extends, and signed by the voters, they
always say all with one accord and a plurality of votes have been chosen and appointed to the
content, refer to governor of the province for approval, and for other jobs that are not town
hall simply the approval of the Lieutenant Governor of the department.

Every

day of the year, at dawn, and are together all the council members at the door of magistrate,
whose runners have a bench or seat in the meantime they feel it is time going to Mass, which
is always early. The mayors have their sticks, batons and policy makers, they rarely release the hands,
and finished the first Mass is going to care door of the priest's room, to greet and take you,
and from there go to administrator, who warns them what they have to do that day and fired,
van together to the house of the mayor, and his door determine the distribution of people,
and others corresponds to the mine. Meanwhile it's time to go to work, which is always late grievances
and demands heard there, which are almost always missing work, theft, concubinage and gossip with
each other. If the accuser is lobbyists, or is responsible for care something, they bring to India
and Indian prisoner accused, and with little consideration send him flogged, as they see fit.
Well you never can spend their punishment of 50 lashes that this government allows them, reserving
the punishment of felonies to understand its causes and judgments, except the capitals, or others
who deserve punishment on criminals, who dispatched to Buenos Aires with the summary. For the
executors of prisons and punishment called sergeants, and they never fail to hand the halberd,
and the scourge bring it tight to the body to be instantly ready to send him. Regularly hear cases
all lobbyists, together with the mayor and mayors, but in the tasks and work any the council,
he is but alderman him beaten with a missing or commits other defect.

From the time of the Jesuits have the custom, and still see punctual,
which, in ending of whipping criminals, have to lift the soil, where
they seek, and will humbly before him who sent them to punish, and
give the thanks Had they been corrected his faults.

If one ignores this requirement will take care of it, test and having it for pride, send it
again whip who humbles himself like or unwilling.

Always ensures that prison inmates do not stop, but those processed by capital crimes, or those
who drop out frequently and the other the penalty is applied, after the crime is justified,
and set free because prisons are unsafe and those who are responsible
too careless, and so often they are prisoners without sufficient to
punish caregivers.

They let them go out alone to their needs, are to mass, even the murderers, so that will not
be those who will not.

Daily feature classic and dress up with dresses that have the people for these functions. Vístense
also military officers with their own, and many others dress and accompanying form, that among
these are some expensive clothes, but they ridicule that serves to
embellish.

In the town where he attended the Governor or any Lieutenant Governor to attend every room,
accompanied by return to church in every ceremony, but being alone have little formality. Whenever
they go together platoon, or rather in a row, before the mayor, who is the deputy mayors,
and in turn others, the latter being the least degree. In church sit in seats; regularly divided
into two bands, although some people feel all of chapter in a single seat, and the deputy sheriff
with the rank military officers post, but the chiefs, who were to be preferred, have no designated
place, or thing The distinction, if not for having a job, take the place that he touched.

The
governor of the people they put in the church chair, rug and pillow, and was saved by priests have
all privileges that the laws are kept governors Timekeeping day, and attending other people's
religious. It gives peace a priest stole, and other holidays a neat band acolyte, we can observe
with lieutenant governors, when you're not the governor, by order of His Excellency Don Francisco
Bucareli, although the governors have patronized Lt. allowed another
chair was immediately put his own, when it is a Lieutenant where he
is.

Guess is that because, as the Indians are so rude, do not think is slight that they do, or the
lieutenant, in the absence of the governor, that usurps honor, in short, and it is practiced.
In the councils of peace gives an acolyte, and the priest gives holy water at the door of
the church on more traditional, but the governor all holidays.

The days of King's birthday, those of his real name, and those in which celebrating a happiness
of the monarchy or the royal family since the day before tomorrow gets the Cabildo in ceremony,
removed from the council houses of the four flags of each town, two with real guns and two with
cross of Burgundy, and other military insignia, which are four spades long five or six yards,
and very thin, small sunfish on the tips and some small colored feathers, put in order and
distribution in parts of these, four horsemen of the old-fashioned, and some sticks, some in
stock form, and others with metal shield or steel cuffs.

From ten o'clock start giving several turns in order, to touch or sound boxes, the square, some
on foot and horseback, to assemble several skirmishes and tournaments, until midnight, at which
time the festival is announced with pealing bells and a few shots of Camaret, whose signal
attend all the people at the door of the church, whose porch is attached the real picture
on the side for the gospel in a drawer, interior doors and curtains, and next opposite are the royal
arms painted on the wall or canvas. Together all the music complete, open the drawer and discover
the real picture repeating several times: "Viva el Rey, Our Lord, Don Carlos III ", and put
a guard with flags, and two effective sentinel before the real picture. In the afternoon vespers
are sung with great solemnity, efforts are required in this is not some religious priests,
and then return to the skirmishes in the meantime have some dances or dances of boys, who marvel
at the order and rhythm to keep, even if so young that fail to eight years. The dances they
use are ancient or foreign; I have not seen similar dances in Spain, or public amusements
of some peoples or those used in the octave of Corpus Christi day. Now some are introduced
modern contradanzas English, Valencian dances and other dances that use the Spanish. These guys
dancers adorn dresses by the way, with wreaths and garlands that are attractive dances, there
are some that are made up of 24 dancers, who are several links, and even letters with the name you
want.

Between dance and dance play games or snacks, in their language called decline, all of its invention,
and some of them seem quite artificial and grace to the principles but who can not complete them
properly, the more the end to beatings and whippings, which held with much laughter the bystanders.

As
the sun reserves the real picture with the ceremonies and cheers to that view, and at night they
put lights and cookers are assembled in the square, and repeated the dance as afternoon. The next
day at sunrise, turns to discover the real picture on the as such, which remains open all day.
At the usual hour, and given the ringing of bells, get together all the people in the church, which
is sung Mass and Te Deum with great solemnity, and then continue
in the square, horse racing contour in which, divided into four teams,
the Indians make many changes or figures the old fashioned way, all
at the touch of many boxes and trumpets, and with great clamor and
noise of large bells, that have covered the harnesses and halters
for horses, whose ornament and grandeur.



"They hed a reg'lar scrimmage hyar in the hall--them fool men--Quimbey an' Kittredge. Old man
Quimbey said suthin' ter Abs'lom Kittredge--I dunno what all. Abs'lom never jawed back none.
He jes made a dart an' snatched this hyar leetle critter out'n his mother's arms, stiddier
waitin' fur the law, what he summonsed himself. Blest ef I didn't hev ter hold my revolver
ter his head, an' then crack him over the knuckles, ter make him let go the child. I didn't
want ter arrest him--mighty clever boy, Abs'lom Kittredge! I promised that young woman I'd
keep holt o' the child till the law gins its say-so. I feel sorry fur her; she's been through
a heap."

"Waal, ye look mighty pritty, totin' him around hyar," his friend encouraged him with a grin.
"I'll say that fur ye--ye look mighty pritty."

And in fact the merriment in the hall at the sheriff's expense began to grow so exhilarating
as to make him feel that the proceedings within were too interesting to lose. His broad red
face with its big red beard reappeared in the doorway--slightly embarrassed because of the
sprightly manners of his charge, who challenged to mirth every eye that glanced at him by his
toothful grin and his gurgles and bounces; he was evidently enjoying the excitement and his
conspicuous position. He manfully gnawed at his corn-dodger from time to time, and from the
manner in which he fraternized with his new acquaintance, the sheriff, he seemed old enough
to dispense with maternal care, and, but for his incomplete methods of locomotion, able to
knock about town with the boys. The Quimbeys took note of his mature demeanor with sinking
hearts; they looked anxiously at the judge, wondering if he had ever before seen such precocity--anything
so young to be so old: "He 'ain't never afore 'peared so survigrus--so durned survigrus ez
he do ter-day," they whispered to each other.

"Yes, sir," his father was saying, on examination, "year old. Eats anything he kin git--cabbage
an' fat meat an' anything. Could walk if he wanted ter. But he 'ain't been raised right"--he
glanced at his wife to observe the effect of this statement. He felt a pang as he noted her
pensive, downcast face, all tremulous and agitated, overwhelmed as she was by the crowd and
the infinite moment of the decision. But Absalom, too, had his griefs, and they expressed themselves
perversely.

"He hev been pompered an' fattened by bein' let ter eat an' sleep so much, till he be so heavy
ter his self he don't wanter take the trouble ter get about. He could walk ennywhar. He's plumb
survigrus."

And as if in confirmation, the youthful Kittredge lifted his voice to display his lung power.
He hilariously babbled, and suddenly roared out a stentorian whoop, elicited by nothing in
particular, then caught the sheriff's beard, and buried in it his conscious pink face.

The judge looked gravely up over his spectacles. He had a bronzed complexion, a serious, pondering
expression, a bald head, and a gray beard. He wore a black broadcloth suit, somewhat old-fashioned
in cut, and his black velvet waist-coat had suffered an eruption of tiny red satin spots. He
had great respect for judicial decorums, and no Kittredge, however youthful, or survigrus,
or exalted in importance by habeas corpus proceedings, could "holler" unmolested where he presided.

"Mr. Sheriff," he said, solemnly, "remove that child from the presence of the court."

And the said Elnathan Daniel Kittredge went out gleefully kicking in the arms of the law.

The hundred or so grinning faces in the courtroom relapsed quickly into gravity and excited
interest. The rows of jeans-clad countrymen seated upon the long benches on either side of
the bar leaned forward with intent attitudes. For this was a rich feast of local gossip, such
as had not been so bountifully spread within their recollection. All the ancient Quimbey and
Kittredge feuds contrived to be detailed anew in offering to the judge reasons why father or
mother was the more fit custodian of the child in litigation.

As Absalom sat listening to all this, his eyes were suddenly arrested by his wife's face--half
draped it was, half shadowed by her sun-bonnet, its fine and delicate profile distinctly outlined
against the crystalline and frosted pane of the window near which she sat. The snow without
threw a white reflection upon it; its rich coloring in contrast was the more intense; it was
very pensive, with the heavy lids drooping over the lustrous eyes, and with a pathetic appeal
in its expression.

And suddenly his thoughts wandered far afield. He wondered that it had come to this; that she
could have misunderstood him so; that he had thought her hard and perverse and unforgiving.
His heart was all at once melting within him; somehow he was reminded how slight a thing she
was, and how strong was the power that nerved her slender hand to drag his heavy weight, in
his dead and helpless unconsciousness, down to the bars and into the safety of the sheltering
laurel that night, when he lay wounded and bleeding under the lighted window of the cabin in
the Cove. A deep tenderness, an irresistible yearning had come upon him; he was about to rise,
he was about to speak he knew not what, when suddenly her face was irradiated as one who sees
a blessed vision; a happy light sprang into her eyes; her lips curved with a smile; the quick
tears dropped one by one on her hands, nervously clasping and unclasping each other. He was
bewildered for a moment. Then he heard Peter gruffly growling a half-whispered curse, and the
voice of the judge, in the exercise of his discretion, methodically droning out his reasons
for leaving so young a child in the custody of its mother, disregarding the paramount rights
of the father. The judge concluded by dispassionately recommending the young couple to betake
themselves home, and to try to live in peace together, or, at any rate, like sane people. Then
he thrust his spectacles up on his forehead, drew a long sigh of dismissal, and said, with
a freshened look of interest, "Mr. Clerk, call the next case."

The Quimbey and Kittredge factions poured into the hall; what cared they for the disputed claims
of Jenkins versus Jones? The lovers of sensation cherished a hope that there might be a lawless
effort to rescue the infant Kittredge from the custody to which he had been committed by the
court. The Quimbeys watchfully kept about him in a close squad, his pink sun-bonnet, in which
his head was eclipsed, visible among their brawny jeans shoulders, as his mother carried him
in her arms. The sheriff looked smilingly after him from the court-house steps, then inhaled
a long breath, and began to roar out to the icy air the name of a witness wanted within. Instead
of a gate there was a flight of steps on each side of the fence, surmounted by a small platform.
Evelina suddenly shrank back as she stood on the platform, for beside the fence Absalom was
waiting. Timothy hastily vaulted over the fence, drew his "shooting-iron" from his boot-leg,
and cocked it with a metallic click, sharp and peremptory in the keen wintry air. For a moment
Absalom said not a word. He looked up at Evelina with as much reproach as bitterness in his
dark eyes. They were bright with the anger that fired his blood; it was hot in his bronzed
cheek; it quivered in his hands. The dry and cold atmosphere amplified the graces of his long
curling yellow hair that she and his mother loved. His hat was pushed back from his face. He
had not spoken to her since the day of his ill-starred confidence, but he would not be denied now.

"Ye'll repent it," he said, threateningly. "I'll take special pains fur that."

She bestowed on him one defiant glance, and laughed--a bitter little laugh. "Ye air ekal ter
it; ye have a special gift fur makin' folks repent they ever seen ye."

"The jedge jes gin him ter ye 'kase ye made him out sech a fibble little pusson," he sneered.
"But it's jes fur a time."

She held the baby closer. He busied himself in taking off his sun-bonnet and putting it on
hind part before, gurgling with smothered laughter to find himself thus queerly masked, and
he made futile efforts to play "peep-eye" with anybody jovially disposed in the crowd. But
they were all gravely absorbed in the conjugal quarrel at which they were privileged to assist.

"It's jes fur a time," he reiterated.

"Wait an' see!" she retorted, triumphantly.

"I won't wait," he declared, goaded; "I'll take him yit; an' when I do I'll clar out'n the
State o' Tennessee--see ef I don't!"

She turned white and trembled. "Ye dassent," she cried out shrilly. "Ye'll be 'feared o' the law."

"Wait an' see!" He mockingly echoed her words, and turned in his old confident manner, and
strode out of the crowd.

Faint and trembling, she crept into the old canvas-covered wagon, and as it jogged along down
the road stiff with its frozen ruts and ever nearing the mountains, she clasped the cheerful
Kittredge with a yearning sense of loss, and declared that the judge had made him no safer
than before. It was in vain that her father, speaking from the legal lore of the code, detailed
the contempt of court that the Kittredges would commit should they undertake to interfere with
the judicial decision--it might be even considered kidnapping.

"But what good would that do me--an' the baby whisked plumb out'n the State? Ef Abs'lom ain't
'feared o' Tim's rifle, what's he goin' ter keer fur the pore jedge with nare weepon but his
leetle contempt o' court--ter jail Abs'lom, ef he kin make out ter ketch him!"

She leaned against the swaying hoop of the cover of the wagon and burst into tears. "Oh, none
o' ye 'll do nuthin' fur me!" she exclaimed, in frantic reproach. "Nuthin'!"

"Ye talk like 'twar we-uns ez made up sech foolishness ez habeas corpus out'n our own heads,"
said Timothy. I'm leaving Orsel and
never return. Never forget that you were not my best friend, only friend. You're the excuse of my
life. Vouch for it. Goodbye, be happy, and if you talk to your son from me is to not look like
me.

"Oliver."

Around noon it started raining. Domingo retired to his cabinet and I followed. That half-dead a
companion of youth, the one old friend who knew him, had revived bitter memories that were only
waiting for a propitious circumstance to spread. I did not ask confidences, it was he who
gave me those.

And as if it did more than put into words coded reports had in view,
told me without disguise, but not without emotion, the following story:

III

What
I have to tell me is small, and could be reduced to just a few words:
a farmer who is a moment away from his village, a writer, dissatisfied
with himself renouncing to the hobby of writing, and the roof of the
native house standing on the start and end in its history.

The prosaic ending that you know, is the best result of my story in terms of morality and perhaps
more as an adventure novel. The rest is instructive to anyone, know only shake my memories. I have
not tried to do mystery, believe me, but I talk about it as little as possible for personal reasons
that are nothing like the desire to make me more interesting than I really am.

Several people are mixed on the facts I will refer you: one is a very old friend - hard to
define and even harder to judge without bitterness - which you have just read the letter farewell
and mourning. Never told about a life that could not please him.

Mix in these confidences is almost rehabilitated. Another, I have it refer to it by putting discretion
in my words contained in situations that make him a public man, or known or probably you will get
to know, and I do not diminish in the least merit revealing to you the modesty of his lineage.
 Once as they jogged on she fancied again that she heard hoof-beats--this time
a long way ahead, thundering over a little bridge high above a swirling torrent, that reverberated
with a hollow tone to the faintest footfall. "Jes somebody ez hev passed we-uns, takin' the
short-cut by the bridle-path," she ruminated. No pursuer, evidently.

Everything was deeply submerged in the snow before they reached the dark little cabin nestling
in the Cove. Motionless and dreary it was; not even a blue and gauzy wreath curled out of the
chimney, for the fire had died on the hearth in their absence. No living creature was to be
seen. The fowls were huddled together in the hen-house, and the dogs had accompanied the family
to town, trotting beneath the wagon with lolling tongues and smoking breath; when they nimbly
climbed the fence their circular footprints were the first traces to mar the level expanse
of the door-yard. The bare limbs of the trees were laden; the cedars bore great flower-like
tufts amidst the interlacing fibrous foliage. The eaves were heavily thatched; the drifts lay
in the fence corners.

Everything was covered except, indeed, one side of the fodder-stack that stood close to the
barn. Evelina, going out to milk the cow, gazed at it for a moment in surprise. The snow had
slipped down from it, and lay in rolls and piles about the base, intermixed with the sere husks
and blades that seemed torn out of the great cone. "Waal, sir, Spot mus' hev been hongry fur
true, ter kem a-foragin' this wise. Sometimes, at night, Oliver knocking
on my door. I immediately recognized the fist thump of his cane gold. I was sitting at my desk, shook
my hand and won its fourth humming a piece of opera. The next day began again without ostentation,
naively convinced it was excellent that austere way of life.

After a few months and could not go. My efforts were exhausted and as a building raised by a
miracle, one morning, on waking, I felt that my value was collapsing. She moved forward suddenly into the shelter
as Evelina started anew toward it, holding the piggin in one hand and clasping the baby in
the other arm.

Evelina noted the sound of her brothers' two axes, busy at the wood-pile, their regular cleavage
splitting the air with a sharp stroke and bringing a crystalline shivering echo from the icy
mountain. She did not see the crouching figure that came cautiously burrowing out from the
stack. Absalom rose to his full height, looking keenly about him the while, and stole noiselessly
in the soft snow to the stable, and peered in through a crevice in the wall.

Evelina had placed the piggin upon the straw-covered ground, and stood among the horned cattle
and the huddling sheep, her soft melancholy face half shaded by the red shawl thrown over her
head and shoulders. A tress of her brown hair escaped and curled about her white neck, and
hung down over the bosom of her dark-blue homespun dress. Against her shoulder the dun-colored
cow rubbed her horned head. The baby was in a pensive mood, and scarcely babbled. The reflection
of the snow was on his face, heightening the exquisite purity of the tints of his infantile
complexion. His gentle, fawn-like eyes were full of soft and lustrous languors. His long lashes
drooped over them now, and again were lifted. His short down of yellow hair glimmered golden
against the red shawl over his mother's shoulders.

One of the beasts sank slowly upon the ground--a tired creature doubtless, and night was at
hand; then another, and still another. Their posture reminded Absalom, as he looked, that this
was Christmas Eve, and of the old superstition that the cattle of the barns spend the night
upon their knees, in memory of the wondrous Presence that once graced their lowly place. The
boughs rattled suddenly in the chill blast above his head; the drifts fell about him. He glanced
up mechanically to see in the zenith a star of gracious glister, tremulous and tender, in the
rifts of the breaking clouds.

"I wonder ef it air the same star o' Bethlehem?" he said, thinking of the great sidereal torch
heralding the Light of the World. So see you if I have reason to say that the materials for this are the most
precious work and more plentiful than may be desired. We therefore delineate the plant.

The context of the entire narrative of this report will undoubtedly persuaded you that the media only
to advance the province and take their natural ignorance, misery and despondency where are the
communities extinguished, leaving the Indians in full freedom that each one works for their own
profit, trading the fruits and effects of their work and industry, and that in all live and
be treated like other subjects of the King. This is the dictates of good reason, and this is what
seems to be directed my thoughts. But, friend mine, for the same story you will know that
they are holding the Indians to their communities have been prevented, and prevents the purchase
provided the light to see aid and supplies necessary for life and this disability is a powerful obstacle
to cross freedom, so that in the meantime are in community, can never acquire the necessary lights
for themselves provided the necessary comforts of life, and until they have they seem impossible
to cross the freedom not to expose it to total ruin. As thing evident to all who know that
freedom would cross the same that if every man put him in a desert with no companions, and
there had to alone provided all the supplies necessary for life, which is the same as put it
to perish.
 She hurried out with it at last, unprescient of any danger
until all at once she saw the footprints of a man in the snow, otherwise untrodden, about the
fodder-stack. She still heard the two axes at the wood-pile. Her father, she knew, was at the
house.

A smothered scream escaped her lips. The steps had evidently gone into the stable, and had
come out thence. At this meeting and would try everything pertaining to real estate, assets of people
and police of them, giving every part of the junta superior de Buenos Aires, so that, seen
there, it is determined as appropriate. She caught it from his hands, and turned it about curiously. She had knit it herself--for
Absalom!

When she came into the house, beaming with joy, the baby holding the glove in his hands, the
men listened to her in dumfounded amaze, and with significant side glances at each other.

"He wouldn't take the baby whenst he hed the chance, 'kase he knowed 'twould hurt me so. An'
he never wanted ter torment me--I reckon he never did mean ter torment me. An' he did 'low
wunst he war sorry he spited dad. Oh! I hev been a heap too quick an' spiteful myself. I hev
been so terrible wrong! Had the same courage worthy her sister that prevented him from complaining;
but did not have the wonderful gift of being charitable to those who hurt, who was outside to
the martyrdom of Magdalena to become sacrifices. And after a time it came to pass that the Quimbey and Kittredge
feuds were healed; for how could the heart of a grandfather withstand a toddling spectacle
in pink calico that ran away one day some two years later, in company with an adventurous dog,
and came down the mountain to the cabin in the Cove, squeezing through the fence rails after
the manner of his underfoot world, proceeding thence to the house, where he made himself very
merry and very welcome?

And when Tim mounted his horse and rode up the mountain with the youngster on the pommel of
the saddle, lest Evelina should be out of her mind with fright because of his absence, how
should he and old Mrs. Kittredge differ in their respective opinions of his vigorous growth,
and grace of countenance, and peartness of manner? A proposal for the sick, rented a house in the suburbs of the population, there to await
the spring came late this year, and the lady's convalescent Ponce did not come ever.

However, he was patient and happy. The path that Evelina had worn to the crag in those
first homesick days on the mountain rapidly extended itself into the Cove, and widened and
grew smooth, as the grandfather went up and the grandson came down.

