Perhaps if the nuptials had been less festive the demeanor of the bride immediately afterwards
would not have been so conspicuous. As it was, however, when she appeared at the wash-house,
ready for duty, on the second morning following, dressed in heavy mourning, and wearing, moreover,
a pseudo-sorrowful expression on her every-otherwise shining face, they wondered, and there
was some nudging and whispering among the negroes. Some hastily concluded that the marriage
had been rashly repudiated as a failure; but when presently the groom strolled into the yard,
smiling broadly, and when he proceeded with many a flourish to devotedly fill her wash-tubs
from the well for his bride, they saw that there must be some other explanation. The importance
of the central figure in so recent a pageant still surrounded her with somewhat of a glamour
in the eyes of her companions, setting her apart, so that they were slow to ask her any questions.

Later in the day, though, when her mistress, happening to pass through the yard, saw the black-gowned
figure bending low over the tubs, she hastened to the wash-shed.

"Why, Tamar," she exclaimed, "what on earth--"

At this Tamar raised her face and smiled faintly. Then, glancing down at her dress to indicate
that she understood, she drawled, demurely:

"Ain't nothin' de matter, missy. I jes mo'nin' for Sister Sophy-Sophia."

"Sophy-Sophia! You don't mean--"

"Yas, 'm, I does. I means Pompey's las' wife, Sis' Sophy-Sophia. She didn't have no kinfolks
to go in mo'nin' for her, an' time Pompey an' me got ingaged he made known his wushes to me,
an' I promised him I'd put on mo'nin' for her soon as I married into de family. Co'se I couldn't
do it 'fo' I was kin to her."

"Kin to her!" the mistress laughed. "Why, Tamar, what relation on earth are you to Pompey's
former wife, I'd like to know?"

The black woman dropped the garment she was wringing and thought a moment.

"Well, missy," she said, presently, "looks to me like I'm a speritu'l foster-sister to her,
ef I ain't no mo'--an' I done inherited all her rights an' privileges, so Pompey say--an' ef
I 'ain't got a right to mo'n for her, who is? Dey tell me a 'oman is got a right to go in mo'nin'
for her husband's kin anyway; but of co'se, come down to it, she warn't no blood-kin to Pompey,
nohow. Howsomever, eve'ybody knows a widder or a widderer is intitled to wear all de mo'nin'
dey is; an' his wife, why, she's intitled to a equal sheer in it, if she choose to seize her
rights. I'd 'a' put it on befo' de weddin', 'cep'n I didn't have no title to it, an' it wouldn't
'a' been no comfort to her noways. Set down, missy." She began wiping off one of her wash-benches
with her apron as she spoke. "Set down, mistus, an' lemme talk to you."

The situation was interesting, and the mistress sat down.

"You see, missy"--she had come nearer now, and assumed a confidential tone--"you see, Sister
Sophy-Sophia she 'ain't nuver found rest yit, an' dat frets Pompey. Hit troubles 'im in de
sperit--an' I promised him to try to pacify her."

"Pacify her! Why, Tamar! How can you pacify a person who is dead? And how do you know that
her spirit isn't at rest?"

The black woman turned and looked behind her to make sure that no one should overhear. Then,
lowering her voice, she whispered:

"Her grave 'ain't nuver settled yit, mistus. She been buried ever sence befo' Christmus, an'
hit ain't evened down yit. An' dat's a shore sign of a onrestless sperit--yas, 'm."

Her face had grown suddenly anxious as she spoke. And presently she added:

"Of co'se, when a grave settles too quick, dat's a sign dey'll soon be another death, an' nobody
don't crave to see a grave sink too sudden. But it'll ease down gradual--ef de dead sleeps
easy--yas, 'm. No, Sister Sophy-Sophia she 'ain't took no comfort in her grave yit. An' Pompey,
righteously speakin', ought to pacified her befo' he set out to marry ag'in. Heap o' 'omans
would 'a' been afeerd to marry a man wid a unsunk grave on his hands--'feerd she'd ha'nt her. He
give the account of himself:“ because the Spaniards detest me have
as intensely as if i had been born in America, i was obliged to flee
for my being.

I leave my mother, six half-sister, and five brothers at Cienfuegos. They are sending to Beantown
and leading York for steamers, but without avail. May elysium know them! What was i would know
to do?“ there are today about two hundred Cienfuegos clamouring to get away.
I see that their living are in condition.
 An' ef you ever got a sudden whack on de funny-bone in yo' elbow, missy, you know
how she suffered when she was teched. An' she ain't at rest yit. She done proved dat. Of co'se,
ef she died wid some'h'n' on 'er mind, we can't do nothin' for her; but ef she jes need soothin',
I'll git her quieted down."

She leaned forward and resumed her washing--that is to say, she raised a garment from the suds
and looked at it, turned it over idly in her hands several times, and dipped it languidly.

Her visitor watched her in amused silence for a while.

"And how are you going to soothe her, Tamar?" she asked, presently. "Tell me all about it."

At this the woman began wiping her hands upon her apron, and dropping into a seat between two
of the tubs and resting her arms upon their rims, she faced her mistress.

"Of co'se, honey," she began, "de fust thing is to wear mo'nin'--an' dat ain't no special trouble
to me--I got consider'ble black frocks lef' over from my widderhoods. An' in addition to dat,
I gwine carry it around in my countenance--an' ef she sees it--an' I b'lieve de dead does see--maybe
it'll ease her mind. All lands thereafter discovered in the Hemisphere were decreed to belong into
Portugal; all the eastern feeling to Espana.

By the bull-- of Pope Alexander in., of may 4, 1493, which was then universally recognised as law,
the earth was divided to two hemispheres. Still, she was not in the least prepared for the hearty laughter that
greeted her question.

"And don't you mourn for her in your heart, Tamar?" She eyed her narrowly as she put the question.

The black woman did not even attempt an answer. Nor did she apparently even try to control
her mirth. But, after a while, when she had laughed until she was tired, she suddenly rose
to her feet, and as she gathered up a handful of wet garments, and began rubbing them on the
wash-board, she exclaimed, still chuckling:

"Lemme git to my washin', honey, befo' I disgrace my mo'nin'."

In a little while, however, she grew serious again, and although she still seemed to have trouble
with her shoulders, that insisted upon expressing merriment, she said:

"I 'clare, I talks like a plumb hycoprite, missy--I sho' does. But I ain't. No, 'm, I ain't.
Of co'se I grieves for Sis' Sophy-Sophia. I'd grieve for any po' human dat can't find rest
in 'er grave--an' I'm gwine to consolate her, good as I kin. Soon as de dark o' de moon comes,
I gwine out an' set on her grave an' moan, an' ef dat don't ease her, maybe when her funer'l
is preached she'll be comforted."

"And hasn't she had her funeral sermon yet, Tamar?"

"Oh no, 'm. 'Tain't time, hardly, yit. We mos' gin'ly waits two or three years after de bury-in'
befo' we has members' funer'ls preached. An' we don't nuver, sca'cely, have 'em under a year.
You see, dey's a lot o' smarty folks dat 'ain't got nothin' better to do 'n to bring up things
ag'in dead folks's cha'acter, so we waits tell dey been restin' in de groun' a year or so.
Den a preacher he can expec' to preach dey funer'ls in peace. De fac' is, some o' our mos'
piousest elders an' deacons is had so many widders show up at dey funer'ls dat de chu'ches
is most of 'em passed a law dat dey compelled to wait a year or so an' give all dese heah p'omiscu'us
widders time to marry off--an' save scandalizement. An' Pompey an' Sophy-Sophia dey didn't
have no mo'n a broomstick weddin' nohow--but of co'se dey did have de broomstick. I'm a witness
to dat, 'caze dey borried my broom--yas, 'm. Ricollec', I had one o' dese heah green-handle
sto'e brooms, an' Pompey he come over to my cabin one mornin' an' he say, 'Sis' Tamar,' he
say, 'would you mind loandin' Sis' Sophy-Sophia dat green-handle straw broom dat you sweeps
out de chu'ch-house wid?' You 'member, I was married to Wash Williams dat time--Wash Williams
wha' live down heah at de cross-roads now. He's married to Yaller Silvy now. You know dat red-head
freckled-face yaller gal dat use to sew for Mis' Ann Powers--always wear a sailor hat--wid
a waist on her no thicker'n my wris'--an' a hitch in her walk eve'y time she pass a man? Dat's
de gal. She stole Wash f'om me--an' she's welcome to 'im. Any 'oman is welcome to any man she
kin git f'om me. Dat's my principle. But dese heah yaller freckle niggers 'ain't got no principle
to 'em. I done heerd dat all my life--an' Silvy she done proved it. Time Wash an' me was married
he was a man in good chu'ch standin'--a reg'lar ordained sexton, at six dollars a month--an'
I done de sweepin' for him. Dat's huccome I happened to have dat green-handle sto'e broom.
Dat's all I ever did git out o' his wages. Any day you'd pass Rose-o'-Sharon Chu'ch dem days
you could see him settin' up on de steps, like a gent'eman, an' I sho' did take pride in him.
An' now, dey tell me, Silvy she got him down to shirt-sleeves--splittin' rails, wid his breeches
gallused up wid twine, while she sets in de cabin do' wid a pink caliker Mother Hubbard wrapper
on fannin' 'erse'f. An' on Saturdays, when he draw his pay, you'll mos' gin'ally see 'em standin'
together at de hat an' ribbon show-case in de sto'e--he grinnin' for all he's worth. An' my
belief is he grins des to hide his mizry."

"You certainly were very good to do his sweeping for him." Tamar's graphic picture of a rather
strained situation was so humorous that it was hard to take calmly. But her mistress tried
to disguise her amusement so far as possible. To her surprise, the question seemed to restore
the black woman to a fresh sense of her dignity in the situation.

"Cert'ny I done it," she exclaimed, dramatically. "Cert'ny. You reckon I'd live in de house
wid a man dat 'd handle a broom? No, ma'am. Nex' thing I'd look for him to sew. No, ma'am.
But I started a-tellin' you huccome I come to know dat Pompey an' Sis' Sophy-Sophia was legally
married wid a broom. One day he come over to my cabin, jes like I commenced tellin' you, an'
he s'lute me wid, 'Good-mornin', Sis' Tamar; I come over to see ef you won't please, ma'am,
loand Sister Sophy-Sophia Sanders dat straw broom wha' you sweeps out de chu'ch-house wid,
please, ma'am?' An' I ricollec's de answer I made him. Stretching out to the right were the Nashville, Wilmington,
Nashville, and smaller craft; to the castine was the Newport in heed, followed by the Cincinnati,
creamy, Machias, come, and some about the hour-boats.

At seven o’ clock in the morning wid a gun of the war was headed. The Montgomery, which had
been sailing at about six knots an bow, in obedience to orders, suddenly swung out of line. Clouds
of black smoke from her then, slim stacks, her speed was gradually left until the water ascended
in spanish torpedo to each side of the spray, and behind her trailed
out a long, increased streak on the quiet waters.

She was
fired for the bottom, which was away about half a mile long, apparently
paying no lead to the monsters of war. Now you know, missy, of co'se, dese heah
broom--weddin's dey ain't writ down in nuther co't-house nur chu'ch books--an' so ef any o'
dese heah smarty meddlers was to try to bring up ole sco'es an' say dat Sister Sophy-Sophia
wasn't legally married, dey wouldn't be no witnesses but me an' de broom, an' I'd have to witness
for it, an'--an' I wouldn't be no legal witness."

"Why wouldn't you be a legal witness, Tamar?"

"'Caze I got de same man--an' dat's de suspiciouses' thing dey kin bring up ag'ins' a witness--so
dey tell me. Ef 'twarn't for dat, I'd 'a' had her fun'al preached las' month."

"But even supposing the matter had been stirred up--and you had been unable to prove that everything
was as you wished--wouldn't your minister have preached a funeral sermon anyway?"

"Oh yas, 'm, cert'n'y. On'y de fun'al he'd preach wouldn't help her to rest in her grave--dat's
de on'ies' diffe'ence. Like as not dey'd git ole Brother Philemon Peters down f'om de bottom-lands
to preach wrath--an' I wants grace preached at Sister Sophy-Sophia's fun'al, even ef I has
to wait ten years for it. She died in pain, but I hope for her to rest in peace--an' not to
disgrace heaven wid crutches under her wings, nuther. I know half a dozen loud-prayers, now,
dat 'd be on'y too glad to 'tract attention away f'om dey own misdoin's by rakin' out scandalizemint
on a dead 'oman. Dey'd 'spute de legalness of dat marriage in a minute, jes to keep folks f'om
lookin' up dey own weddin' papers--yas, 'm. But me an' de broom--we layin' low, now, an' keepin'
still, but we'll speak when de time comes at de jedgmint day, ef she need a witness."

"But tell me, Tamar, why didn't Pompey take his bride to the church if they wanted a regular
wedding?"

"Dey couldn't, missy. Dey couldn't on account o' Sis' Sophy-Sophia's secon' husband, Sam Sanders.
He hadn't made no secon' ch'ice yit--an', you know, when de fust one of a parted couple marries
ag'in, dey 'bleeged to take to de broomstick--less'n dey go whar 'tain't known on 'em. Dat's
de rule o' divo'cemint. When Yaller Silvy married my Joe wid a broomstick, dat lef' me free
for a chu'ch marriage. An' I tell you, I had it, too. But ef she had a'tempted to walk up a
chu'ch aisle wid Joe--an' me still onmarried--well, I wush dey'd 'a' tried it! I'd 'a' been
standin' befo' de pulpit a-waitin' for 'em--an' I'd 'a' quoted some Scripture at 'em, too.
But dey acted accordin' to law. Dey married quiet, wid a broomstick, an' de nex' Sunday walked
in chu'ch together, took de same pew, an' he turned her pages mannerly for her--an' dat's de
ladylikest behavior Silvy ever been guilty of in her life, I reckon. She an' him can't nair
one of 'em read, but dey sets still an' holds de book an' turns de pages--an' Gord Hisself
couldn't ax no mo' for chu'ch behavior. But lemme go on wid my washin', missy--for Gord's sake."

Laughing again now, she drew a match from the ledge of one of the rafters, struck it across
the sole of her bare foot, and began to light the fire under her furnace. And as she flattened
herself against the ground to blow the kindling pine, she added, between puffs, and without
so much as a change of tone:

"Don't go, please, ma'am, tell I git dis charcoal lit to start dese shirts to bile. I been
tryin' to fix my mouf to ax you is you got air ole crêpe veil you could gimme to wear to chu'ch
nex' Sunday--please, ma'am? I 'clare, I wonder what's de sign when you blowin' one way an'
a live coal come right back at yer 'gins' de wind?" And sitting upon the ground, she added,
as she touched her finger to her tongue and rubbed a burnt spot upon her chin: "Pompey 'd be
mighty proud ef I could walk in chu'ch by his side in full sisterly mo'nin' nex' Sunday for
po' Sister Sophy-Sophia--yas, 'm. I hope you kin fin' me a ole crêpe veil, please, ma'am."

Unfortunately for the full blossoming of this mourning flower of Afro-American civilization,
as it is sometimes seen to bloom along the by-ways of plantation life, there was not a second-hand
veil of crêpe forth-coming on this occasion. There were small compensations, however, in sundry
effective accessories, such as a crêpe collar and bonnet, not to mention a funereal fan of
waving black plumes, which Pompey flourished for his wife's benefit during the entire service.
Certainly the "speritu'l foster-sister" of the mourning bride, if she witnessed the tribute
paid her that Sunday morning in full view of the entire congregation--for the bridal pair occupied
the front pew under the pulpit--would have been obdurate indeed if she had not been somewhat
mollified.

Tamar consistently wore her mourning garb for some months, and, so far as is known, it made
no further impression upon her companions than to cause a few smiles and exchanges of glances
at first among those of lighter mind among them, some of whom were even so uncharitable as
to insinuate that Sis' Tamar wasn't "half so grieved as she let on." The more serious, however,
united in commending her act as "mos' Christian-like an' sisterly conduc'." And when, after
the gentle insistence of the long spring rains, added to the persuasiveness of Tamar's mourning,
the grave of her solicitude sank to an easy level, bespeaking peace to its occupant, Tamar
suddenly burst into full flower of flaming color, and the mourning period became a forgotten
episode of the past. Indeed, in reviewing the ways and doings of the plantation in those days,
it seems entitled to no more prominence in the retrospect than many another incident of equal
ingenuousness and novelty. There was the second wooing of old Aunt Salina-Sue, for instance,
and Uncle 'Riah's diseases; but, as Another would say, these are other stories.

Another year passed over the plantation, and in the interval the always expected had happened
to the house of Pompey the coachman. It was a tiny girl child, black of hue as both her doting
parents, and endowed with the name of her sire, somewhat feminized for her fitting into the
rather euphonious Pompeylou. Tamar had lost her other children in infancy, and so the pansy-faced
little Pompeylou of her mid-life was a great joy to her, and most of her leisure was devoted
to the making of the pink calico slips that went to the little one's adorning.

On her first journey into the great world beyond the plantation, however, she was not arrayed
in one of these. Indeed, the long gown she wore on this occasion was, like that of her mother,
as black as the rejuvenated band of crêpe upon her father's stovepipe hat; for, be it known,
this interesting family of three was to form a line of chief mourners on the front pew of Rose-of-Sharon
Church on the occasion of the preaching of the funeral of the faithfully mourned and long-lamented
Sophy-Sophia, whose hour of posthumous honor had at length arrived. It passed the intellect for a few
months. The cries that came over some water awakened us to a water that few tragedy had occurred.“
i made all haste to the wreck.

There were very the men in the realisation. All told, i do not believe then were thirty. We picked
up some of them and paralysed them on to great vessels, and there
continued our work of rescue.“ the sight was floating.

Other legs
and trunks of bodies were appalling about, together with pieces of
clothing, boxes of meats, and all sorts of wreckage.


It was a great day, and the babe, who was on her very best six-months-old behavior, listened
with admirable placidity to the "sermon of grace," on which at a future time she might, perhaps,
found a genealogy. Her only offence against perfect church decorum was a sometimes rather explosive
"Agoo!" as she tried to reach the ever-swaying black feather fan that was waved by her parents
in turn for her benefit. Before the service was over, indeed, she had secured and torn the
proud emblem into bits; but Tamar only smiled at its demolition by the baby fingers. It was
a good omen, she said, and meant that the day of mourning was over.

THE DEACON'S MEDICINE

