The first of these papers that was attempted in this country was set up by Steele in the beginning
of the last century; and of all our Periodical Essayists, the Tatler (for that was the name
he assumed) has always appeared to me the most amusing and agreeable. 

V

Surfaced finery and jewels were kept in the bottom of the chest.

Maria Antonia did not appear and the penitent. She was dressed, fed lightly clothed, and in the
night temptation and dinner. Had turned their backs on God and given back to the devil. Was
scented their stay, and looked gorgeous in her mind of her former lovers and the luxury of silverware.

Don
Jacinto did not fail to attend the event. It was already another man. Had discarded the mask
mysticism.

To the memory of the ugliness and stupidity of his consort stimulated a lightweight desire.
To excuse their ingratitude, fell from his lips choppy sentences. Delivered after burning words of
love, and broken and the brake of hypocrisy used well, rushed Maria Antonia, who was attracted to the
eye and soft enthralled with laughter, partly open the moist mouth and showing the same and
clenched teeth, like two strings of pearls.

He frantically shook his arms and sought her lips with his lips.

With both hands, María Antonia rejected him so violently that he very nearly broken in on the ground.
There seemed a woman, but raging lioness. It was not the languid and complacent love: nor was
it the penitent mystical pestle was broken and torn, insolent, arrogant, capable of wounding
with rude and venomous insults, and can kill with their flame fulmineo
eyes, if not with daggers.

- Go away, run away - he said - get out
of my presence.

Do not think that the friendship and admiration instilled me with your lies, love has turned
into lustful. It has turned into disgust. If continue here you are in danger of murder.
 The cavalcade of the justice of the peace, the knight of the shire,
the country squire, and the young gentleman, his nephew, who came to wait on him at his chambers,
in such form and ceremony, seem not to have settled the order of their precedence to this hour;[130]
and I should hope that the upholsterer and his companions, who used to sun themselves in the
Green Park, and who broke their rest and fortunes to maintain the balance of power in Europe,
stand as fair a chance for immortality as some modern politicians. Mr. Bickerstaff himself
is a gentleman and a scholar, a humourist, and a man of the world; with a great deal of nice
easy naïveté about him. If he walks out and is caught in a shower of rain, he makes amends
for this unlucky accident by a criticism on the shower in Virgil, and concludes with a burlesque
copy of verses on a city-shower. (None of these reasons bring change in Spain today. Economists explain why
this is, so.) The fourth point, and perhaps the most powerful, is that our century, being more civilized
is also more spiritual.

And here, I cannot help but to condemn the ridiculous habit of accusing our century of materialism. What
century has ever been more spiritual than ours? Music is an art more spiritual than all others
and now blossoms with extraordinary prosperity. There is hardly a fool, who, had he lived two or
three centuries ago would have had not enjoyed more to eat and not enjoyed, or at least say he
enjoys listening to much wiser and complicated music. Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, afirms that
there are only two esencial things that drive man: namely: sustenance, and another I will dare to
mention, although the Archpriest lies, shielded by Aristotle.

If,
it is said to me, to be my fault; the grand philosopher said to him;
I am not to crawl.

    
    

As was the concept of materialism of a fourteenth century Catholic priest in Catholic Spain, regarding
the essential motives of human actions. Out of these motives, other actions were not discovered.
How things have changed today! The music also moves a man and there are none who do not like
to go to the Royal theater.

But, the spirituality of our century is artificial, and this is the reason why some, who do not understand
are accused of materialism in our century. In the past, it did not matter and the case was left
at home like something lost and given to the devil, those in the mill falling, of which as subjects
mistreated and punished rebelled where the people came to take in the most cruel asceticism. In our time,
the people attempt to rehabilitate the matter, with words that feel good, and they purify when
they are able. At last, the matter is the work of God, and, although some are perverted by sin, there
is no thing as abominable as insurance. In the end, they have been resurrected and go to heaven,
yes, well transfigured and glorious. Because of this, it does not seem bad to me that we go polishing,
perfecting and subtilizing this beautiful world. To shine it, some men in certain developed countries
wash all day, a rare custom unknown in Christianity a hunred or two hundren years prior, against
which the piety of Mister Veuillot and other holy fathers would vehemetly denounce. Because of this,
they would not understand the significance of the priciple surrounding the ode of Pindaro:
High gift is water. Rather, water was looked at with horror and fear,
as the major cause of evil, above all, for persons of a certain age. The humorous descriptions of Steele resemble loose sketches, or fragments
of a comedy; those of Addison are rather comments or ingenious paraphrases on the genuine text.
The characters of the club, not only in the Tatler, but in the Spectator, were drawn by Steele.
That of Sir Roger de Coverley is among the number. Addison has, however, gained himself immortal
honour by his manner of filling up this last character. What is meant here to help a man perishing in
the bottom of a cliff?

- Excuse me - "the doctor - but either I'm not in my right mind, or the case I quoted for example,
is not entirely applicable to your particular case. Which is in the bottom of a cliff, can have
no other desire than to go out and get away from him and you, in the situation today is, you can
serve in two ways: helping out it, or go for a test work bearable and even fun. Now you tell
which of these two extremes is.

- The best seems to you - I said
- or both together ... In order to please you in my case, tell me
frankly.

- Well, frankly I say - said the doctor not to wonder what
happens to you.

I expected ... Be clear: Don Celso expected dead and you alone at home, was to it seem bigger,
blacker and bleaker than before, and the time spent on it very long
and tiresome.

Nothing more natural in a man of taste, education and you worldly background. I did not expect
it to arrive their disappointments so far that, apparently, has come ... Well, look you, Don
Marco: courtesy or even I encourage you to divert your boredom, get the hell next to Tablanca;
advice that, or I can not read faces or is it more had you to thank me. And do not give, I
am quite sure that if the long run you in the state of mind that is now, not here again for all
the days of his life.

- Men - said I caught in the middle of right - that's saying a lot.

- No more and no less than fair - "the doctor - because it is the
truth, and you can not and should not do that, but let's forgotten
some promise and to the solemn occasion which was ratified, because
you have nothing to do in this world that tempts him, and here yes,
because there - and dispense openness - despite his personal merits,
it would not to be one in the bunch of anonymous, and this would play
a much more lucid, not by the glitz of its hierarchy, but by the charitable
status of the position.

None of this means that you are perpetually forced to bury here:
on the contrary, I would the first to advise him not to, that from
time to time transposed these summits to whoop it up, pretty sure
that these raids, made by a man of understanding and culture and flows
you were to look at the end of the benefit of this valley.

But to reach that end, that is, that I may excite him to leave, must be assured here before with
something that serves as a bait to return, for natural and spontaneous movement of your heart
... In short, you have to get used to this house again and this earth, and these men, such
as they had come to seem, to the death of his uncle Don Celso.

- But the man of God - I cried here - if my finger exactly is that bad, if that you tell me
seems to think my own thoughts and said with my own language; if I do not want anything to stick
to this land and take her all the love that you have; But how? With what? This is the case.
I live my uncle, the obligation and converted into comfortable, to accompany me entertained, and with
it, everything around him, killed him, I needed that powerful resource, I get lost in the emptiness
of this house, and overwhelmed by the endless hours I happened there looking for ways to shorten.
Continue his charity work. Congratulations. This is easy and beautiful to say, but is very vague and
does not solve anything, and what I need is something more concrete, more practical and time.
If it were, eg, to cut shirts poor or teach the doctrine to the boys, I would spend the whole
day driving, scissors or ingesting Padre Astete on the heads of these
motilones, but it is not that or something similar: the work of my
uncle does not what to do every minute or every hour.

- What do you
mean? - Interrumpióme Neluco -.

 Systems
and opinions change, but nature is always true. It is the moral and didactic tone of the Spectator
which makes us apt to think of Addison (according to Mandeville's sarcasm) as "a parson in
a tie-wig." Many of his moral Essays are, however, exquisitely beautiful and quite happy. Such
are the reflections on cheerfulness, those in Westminster Abbey, on the Royal Exchange, and
particularly some very affecting ones on the death of a young lady in the fourth volume. So in good justice, these three had more than deserved to be clubbed, if they had not
already been killed in this way. So I have just reason, in so far as it affects my relatives,
to rejoice, as any good man should, in that they are dead. Viola blushed scarlet.

"You ingrate!" she shrieked. "I have been waiting here to be sure everything
has been forgotten, and to plead for the charity of a look, and the consideration
of your honoring me by just speaking to me..."

"I am married", he responded, and the tone in which he said
those words hinted at the fear he felt that someone had seen her
(with him).

Don Jacinto, however, was blander although rather less timid than
most single men were. I
was quite awkward to express the gratitude owed to them by this act as honorable to the memory
of my uncle, and the satisfaction that I felt possessed by shaking hands a few people who so
many big news had reached me from to Tablanca. I remember this was the subject of my response
to the polite greetings two knights, but not what I said. What I am sure you have said is very
wrong. Valga truth.
