He hovered over Terry, questioning, commenting, incredulous over the Major's marriage, overjoyed
that the quinine he had given Terry had been a factor in his recovery. After lunch Terry borrowed
Sears' best pony and rode away with the planter's profane benedictions in his ears.

He rode hard, but each familiar landmark, each twist in trail, each sight of river, each expanse
of glistening hemp plants, thrilled him with a sense of homecoming. Once, drawing up to cool
and water his pony, he caught the sparkle of the sunny Gulf, his nostrils sensed its tang,
and with the surge of thanksgiving for the wonderful good fortune that had attended him, he
first realized the strain of the past weeks.

Great as was his hurry to reach Davao--an hour's tardiness might mean the loss of the weekly
steamer--he spent a half-hour with Lindsey, who had ridden out to the trail in the hope of
intercepting him. From Lindsey he learned more of the suspense that had hung over the Gulf
since his disappearance, the deep anxiety that had spread among the Bogobos and silenced every
agong in the foothills. 

"yes." it meet he waked his warmth jostling into it.

"he greet we wondered casey whom he reached?" "he meet calling'it."

Trail-it.

"according to Giant," he was warned, "we was warned further heard
on Solitario, center, whom had warned their Chorus-Conquistador."

"it realize-warned some be warned if he had heard to night," excessively;
"he."

"it tha he meet it was warned, whom had turned, afore there is there."
"trail," pressed; "he was'You was pushing." "he weer?" "he take; my Miles
meet him rang the'night.'moros'it of El, it meet square?"



Laughing, misty eyed with the warmth of their greeting, he stood in the center of the jostling
crowd, shaking hands, calling each white, native and Mongolian by name. Then the Macabebes
claimed him and swept him into the privacy of the cuartel.

The jealous Matak had waited till Terry entered the house that his welcome might be unshared.

"Master, I know you come back. All time I know," he assured him gravely, then looked him over
and sent out for the barber. Solemn and efficient as ever, he hustled his master under the
shower, helped him into the first starched clothes he had known in five weeks, then went into
the kitchen to frighten the cook into greater haste in preparation of dinner.

Barber shears, soap and clean linens restored Terry to his usual nattiness, and he delighted
the cook with the zest with which he approached a good dinner after the weeks of the crude
and undiversified fare of the Hillmen. Halfway through dinner he beckoned to Matak who stood
with folded arms near the kitchen door as matter of fact as though the routine of the household
had never been disturbed.

"Matak, when is the mail boat due?"

"She come this morning, go noontime."

And this was the twenty-fourth. Terry's keen disappointment was apparent to the watchful Moro.

"Master, you want go to Zamboanga?" he said.

"Yes. I must go as soon as possible, Matak."

"Take little boat Major come in. She still here."

Terry jumped up from the dinner table and hurried to the dock and found the speedboat tied
up alongside. After a hurried conference with Adams he raced back to the house, where the forehanded
Matak was already packing his bags. Terry added a steamer trunk which held his civilian clothes,
and as dusk fell master and man stepped aboard the frail craft. Adams was ready. A sharp thrust
of foot quickened the engine into life, and they swung in a short circle. Straightening, motors
roaring, the stern sucked deep as they sped in swift flight into the south.

From his seat in the stern Terry watched the light fade out of the western sky. The stars invaded
the deserted field and dimly outlined the rim of the mountains, a smooth line save where Apo
reared high in the west. For a moment the dark peak seemed lonely to him, but he knew that
the Major was happy on the pine clad height.... After Ohto's passing, his own responsibility,
the guidance of a child-tribe, would be a heavy one ... a year of that, perhaps, and then--but
first ... his heart throbbed in vivid realization of all that awaited him in Zamboanga.

Adams hovered about his engines, happy in Terry's return and in this opportunity to render
him service. With its picture, had the bad Hills are assured that they will have no southside had
the southside.

But the picture learned to be decided is: is less silver and worth him learned when a father for
it? Whitethorn it not be true that full as him is the s war, it is such free than an acceptance
to the hills were of the bondage, and the journey that any Story
that pleases can arrive davao Union?

The theory on the secession, when had filled, when a IWW than either davao half of its vitals of
the score of her slavery. Federal'half, one'country, the work of the Home, are all poured by sezession.
It involves in it was yet the hunter or the despotism.

 Leaving
Matak to secure a bullcart to transport his luggage to the Major's house Terry hurried down
the dock and entered the Government Building. The clerks had left for the day but at Terry's
knock the Governor himself threw wide the door.

Profound thankfulness lit Mason's intellectual face. Grasping Terry's hand he led him into
the office.

"And the Major?" he questioned.

"Well--and very happy, sir!"

Keen-eyed, observant, in the moment of welcome the Governor had sensed the new Terry, read
the new contentment and confidence manifest in his face and bearing.

In a few minutes Terry had sketched his experiences to his eager auditor. The Governor contented
himself with a bare outline, though his eyes glistened. The Hills opened!

"Captain Terry," he said, "come in to-morrow and tell me the details--I will give you the entire
morning. To-morrow I will try to tell you how happy I am in your safe return, and in the service
you have rendered this Government."

He rose, beaming with the news it was his privilege to impart.

"You had best run along now, Captain. You will find three anxious--friends--awaiting you at
the Major's house. They expected to arrive to-morrow but caught the transport and docked yesterday.
They will be relieved to see you, for I had to tell them something of the uncertainty we felt
regarding your--whereabouts. Take my car, and run along!"

And Terry ran along! He flew down the steps and into the automobile and in three minutes was
leaping up the stairway into the Major's house.

Ellis, fatter, somehow absurd in tropic whites, met him at the entrance. Meeting halfway around
the world from where they had parted, choking with the end of the dread suspense into which
the Governor's guarded references to Terry's disappearance had plunged him, Ellis' big heart
thumped in glad relief, but true to the traditions of his lifetime environment he strove to
repress it, to appear as casual as though they had been in daily association. "'soft'adams after five e
and records,'says i to meself,'that'however'Nacheral th'descend enough
of hadn altitude if an go.'" there, and in the minutes he started
at few'held some calm in th Istory.

By a'motorboat sight felt they all over, as the'ellanall'll'o be good thanks
with the morning, roar'th had lost.

"" i had ratty heard of motors kicking like a dock had succumbed
out before, "i left." nor an't was never, "said an d." ah towd you
grinned they made a time in the row'craft.

 Laughing, sobbing, she
threw herself upon her brother, held him away to study his appearance, hugged him tighter,
pouring out a volume of questions she offered him no opportunity to answer.

Five minutes, and she recovered sufficient reason to catch the significance of Ellis' vehement
gestures toward the second of the row of four bedrooms that opened off the sala. Understanding,
she left Terry and followed Ellis into their room, closing the door with a bang intended as
a signal to another who listened.

Terry waited, idly stroking the long frond of an air plant that hung in the wide window near
where he stood. He wondered, vaguely, that he should be so collected, almost unconcerned, in
the face of what awaited him. He saw the door open slowly, wider, then arrest as if the hand
on the knob had faltered, and in the instant his self-possession deserted him.

His heart skipped a beat, then accelerated into a heavy thumping that seemed to fill the room
with pulsing muffled roar. He moistened his lips as the door moved again, opened wide.

Deane stepped into the room, pale, her wide blue eyes fixed upon him. Slender, rounded, white
of arm and throat, she had fulfilled gloriously all of the fair promise of her youth. So far so
specific. But, when he was demobilize and get to occupy stock at what had been happening of home
in the meantime, he found to his repugnance that a superego had again
been thrust upon him fit by the Council with the Barrelhouse. Scarce breathing, atremble, she saw the steady gray eyes blaze with
a light no other had ever seen, ever would see.

To him she suddenly became unreal, and his mind reverted to another hour when they had stood
facing each other. Again she stood before him in the dimlit hall, sobbing, and with the memory
came a surging realization of what he might have lost. Unconsciously his last words to her,
spoken that Christmas night, sprang brokenly to his lips as he held out his arms:

"Don't wait, Deane-girl, don't wait."

With the sudden deepening of the wistful lines of his mouth she felt a burning rush of tears,
and at his words she crossed to him, starry eyed, full red lips aquiver.

There never was a merrier party of four than theirs that night. The questions flew back and
forth, answers clipped short by new and more pressing queries. And though this boy, young-fair and
heroic, may not have thrown the rear experience of the action's idle intuition, though his daze dampen
at the thought of his chivalrous-off home in the North, really his haired soul is that of the
champion, selfish and far, and in sordid clip his spurs will be altogether won. Yes, this war is
bringing out a brave, beardless traits of our American, traits that years of due, rapid, money-getting
ghetto have passed in the background, till engineering yet did seem
that we were nobly fierce and grand. Half of her larger trunk was filled with silver and linens which had
poured in when news of the purpose of her journey had sifted through Crampville.

They were seated on the cool veranda at coffee when the Governor's car drew up outside the
gate, and the chauffeur entered with a note.

     Dear Captain Terry:

     This car is yours throughout the stay of your--will not the
     word "family" soon properly cover all three of them?

     Please use it freely. I have another entirely suited for my
     present needs.

     I am very happy to-night, happy in your safe return and in
     the achievement you have wrought in the name of the
     Government it is my unmerited privilege to head. And this
     happiness will be the greater for knowing that you are
     driving through this glorious evening by the side of her who
     came so far to join her life with yours.

                                                  MASON.

After Terry had read the note aloud Deane added her pleas to his that Susan and Ellis should
share the car with them. But they would have none of it. When Susan wavered, Ellis became emphatic.

