There was a sort of a blackish-tawny line drawn to the side-stripe--whose other and learned
name was Adustus--and back.  It scarcely seemed possible that the black-backed little chap
had moved, but he had--leaped in and out again, chopping wickedly with a sword-like gleam of
fangs as he did so.  The other pivoted, quick as thought, and counter-slashed, and, before
you could wink, Mesomelas was in and away, in and out, once, twice, and again.  One bite sent
a little flick of the other's brown fur a-flying; one missed, one got home, and the side-stripe's
ugly snarling changed to a yap to say so.

Twice the two beasts whirled round and round, like roulette-balls, the black-back always on
the outside, always doing the attacking, dancing as if on air, light as a gnat.  Once he got
right in, and the foe sprang at his throat.  He was not there when the enemy's teeth closed,
but his fangs were, and fang closed on fang, and the resulting tussle was not pretty to behold.

Mesomelas cleared himself from that scrunch with very red lips, but never stopped his whirling,
light-cavalry form of attack.  He was trying to tease the other into dashing after him, and
giving up the advantage which his foe had in size and strength, but it was no good; and finally
Adustus suddenly scurried into cover, redder than he had been, and our black-back, too, had
to bolt for his hole, as an aardwolf, clumsy, hyena-like, and cowardly, but strong enough for
them, scenting blood, came up to investigate.

Mercifully, the side-stripe seemed to attract the more attention, or shed the more blood, and
while the aardwolf was sniffing at his hole--not intending to do anything if the jackal had
a snap left in him, which he had, for the aardwolf possessed the heart of a sheep, really--the
black-back managed to dash out and abscond to his hole with the hare.  When the aardwolf came
back, and sniffed out what he had done, he said things.

Our jackal's head appeared at his hole next dawn as a francolin began to call, and a gray lowrie--a
mere shadow up among the branches--started to call out, "Go away! go away!" as if he were speaking
to the retreating night.  A gay, orange-colored bat came and hung up above the jackal's den--well
out of reach, of course--and a ground-hornbill suddenly started his reverberating "Hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo!"
and, behold--'twas dawn!

The jackal scuttled down to the river to have a drink, which he got rather riskily among the
horns of drinking, congregated hartebeests, impala, and other antelope, and returned with the
leg-bone of a bush-buck, which had been slain the night before by a leopard, and he went to
ground very quickly, for the great spotted cat could be heard, grunting wrath, at his heels.

Then the day strode up, and the light, creeping in, showed our jackal, curled up and fast asleep,
in his lair, as far away as he could possibly get in the space--two ant-bears', or aardvarks',
holes run into one--from his also curled-up wife.

Later--for it was quite chilly--he came out to sleep in the sun, under a bush, till the sun,
in turn, half-baked him, and he retired again to the den.

The days were, as a rule, for the jackal, a succession of sleeping blanks, but at the end of
this day it was the fate of a small python--small for a python--to hunt a pangolin--who was
as like a thin pineapple with a long tail, if you understand me, as it was like anything, or
like a fir-cone many times enlarged, only it was an animal, and a weird one--into that den
of thieves.

Mrs. Mesomelas, she appeared to shoot straight from dreamless slumber on to the pangolin's
back in some wonderful way, and Mr. Mesomelas, he bounced from the arms of Morpheus into--the
jaws of the snake?  No, sirs; on to the nape of that snake's neck, if snakes may be said to
have napes to their necks.  But to get hold of the neck of a python is one thing, to keep there
quite a different, and very risky, affair; and our jackal, who was no pup, knew that.  If that
legless creation of the devil could only have got his tail round something, our jackal might
have been turned into food for his food, so to speak.  Wherefore, possibly, he was frightened.
It was like taking hold of a live wire by the loose end.  Moreover, the space was confined,
and there were the whelps and all, and I rather fancy black-back was more frightened to leave
go and stay than he was to hold on and run.

Anyway, he held on and ran.

An old, fat zebra stallion, round-barreled and half-asleep, snorted suddenly, and stared with
surprise at the sight of a black-backed jackal galloping as fast as circumstances would permit
him, with the wide-mouthed head of a python in his jaws, and the remaining long, painted body
trailing out behind.  The snake was not going with any pleasure, and his wriggling tail was
feeling for a hold every inch of the way, and if he could have got one--oh, jackal!  But he
could not, for the jackal kept on going, and the snake's after-length kept on trailing out
straight, like a loose rope behind a boat, through the perishing glare and the heat-flurry
that seemed to be making the whole world jump up and down, as it does when you look at it over
the top of a locomotive-funnel.

Snakes take a long time to die, or to seem dead, even with a double set of glistening sharp
teeth scrunching as hard as their owner knows how into their neck.  At last, however, after
a final series of efforts to get, and keep, in the shape of a letter S, the python's tail gradually
ceased to feel for a hold, and the writhing strain in the jackal's jaws relaxed.  Still, our
Mesomelas was taking no chances, and he galloped home with his capture before he stopped, as
proud and happy an old dog, rascally jackal as ever cracked a bone on a fine day.

He was a little puffed, and more than a little puffed up, and it may have been that he did
not keep his eyes all round his head, as a jackal should always do.  Anyway, there, in the
gathering shadows of night, came a waiting, watching shadow, that was presently joined by another,
and the two--their eyes glinted once in a nasty metallic fashion--stood head to head, watching him.

By the time Mrs. Mesomelas had hobbled out to view the "kill" for herself, and snarl her appreciation--truly,
it was a strange way of showing it--with thin, wicked ears laid back, and more than wicked
fangs bared, the waiting, watching shadows had crept forward a little, on their bellies, head
up, and--Mrs. Mesomelas, with the quick suspicion of motherhood awake in her, saw them.

The snarl that she whipped out fetched the jackal round upon himself as if stung.  Then he
saw, and understood, and rage flamed into his intelligent, dog's eyes.  It was the side-striped
jackals, Mr. and Mrs., plotting to loot his "kill."

It was the black-back who attacked.  Perhaps he knew that one secret of defense is swift and
unexpected offense.  Anyway, he attacked, sailing in with his dancy, chopping, in-and-out skirmishing
methods; and Mrs. Mesomelas, on three legs and with the bill for the other to be settled, helped
him.

It was very difficult, in the tropic dust, to follow what exactly happened next.  For the next
few minutes black-back was here, there, and everywhere, leaping and dodging in and out like
a lambent flame. The human eye could scarcely follow him, but the human ear could hear plainly
the nasty, dog-like snarling and the snap of teeth.

The side-stripe, as I have said, was the weightier beast, but the black-back never gave him
the advantage, which he sought, of the close-fought fight.

More than once he was chased, but only to lead his foe into the open, where he could play his
own game to his own liking; and at last, when the moon rose, and his mate had the female black-back
driven back to her last ditch, so to speak, at the entrance to her lair, the side-stripped
jackal, spouting blood at every joint, it seemed, collapsed suddenly, and apparently gave up
the ghost.

Now, our black-backed jackal was not a young beast, and he was up to most wild-folks' games--which
was as well.  He approached the corpse with caution, and as he poised for the last spring the
corpse was at his throat.  Black-back, however, was not there, but his tail was, and the side-striped
one got a mouthful of the bushy black tip of that. Whereupon Mesomelas recoiled on himself,
and for a moment a horrible "worry" followed, at the end of which the other dropped limply
again, this time, apparently, really done for.

Very, very gingerly the black-back--himself a red and weird sight in the eye of the moon--approached,
and seized and shook the foe, dropped him, and--again that foe was a leaping streak at his throat.

Mesomelas side-stepped, and neatly chopped--a terrible, wrenching bite--at his hindleg in passing.
It fetched him over, and he lay still, the moon shining on his side, doubly and redly striped now.

This time it was Mesomelas who sprang at his throat--to be met by fangs.  But in the quarter
of an instant, changing his mind after he sprang, he shot clean up in the air, and came down
to one side, and, rebounding like a ball, had the other by the neck.

For one instant he kept there, hung, wrenching ghastlily, then sprung clear, and, backing slowly,
limping, growling horribly, flat-eared and beaten, the side-striped jackal began his slow,
backward retreat into the heart of the nearly impenetrable thorns, where the winner was not
such a fool as to follow him.  And the black-backed jackal never saw him again.  Living or
dead, he faded out of our jackal's life forever.

And when he turned, his wife was standing at the entrance to the "earth" alone.  The other,
the female side-striped jackal's form, could be dimly seen dissolving into the night--on three
legs.

"Yaaa-ya-ya-ya!" howled Mesomelas.

XIII

THE STORM PIRATE

The sea-birds were very happy along that terrible breaker-hewn coast. Puffin, guillemot, black
guillemot, razorbill, cormorant, shag, fulmar petrel, storm petrel perhaps, kittiwake-gull,
common gull, eider-duck, oyster-catcher, after their kind, had the great, cliff-piled, inlet-studded,
rock-dotted stretch of coast practically to themselves--to themselves in their thousands. 
Their only shadow was the herring-gulls, and the herring-gulls, being amateur, not professional,
pirates, were too clumsy to worry too much.

Then came the rain-shower.  Not that there was anything in that. Rain-showers came to that
land as easily as blushes used to do to maidens' cheeks--rain-showers, and sudden squalls,
and all manner of swift storm phenomena.  But behind the rain-shower, or in it, maybe--it blotted
out cliff and inlet and sandbar and heather-covered hills, and, with the wind, whipped the
sea into spume like an egg-whisk--came he, the storm pirate.

A guillemot--you know the guillemot, the fish-hunter, who flies under the waters more easily
than she flies the air above the waters--had risen, and was making inshore with a full catch,
when the squall caught her without warning.  For a little she faced it, her wings whirring
madly, her body suspended in mid-air, but she not making headway one inch against the sudden
fury of a forty-mile-an-hour wind.  Then, since she could no longer see the shore, which was
blotted out with hissing rain, she turned and ran down-wind, like a drawn streak, to the lee
of a big stack of rock.

The next that was seen of her, she was heading out to sea at top speed, in wake of the rain-shower
and the squall, which had passed as suddenly as it had come; and behind her, pursuing her with
a relentless fury that made one gasp, shot another and a strange bird-shape.  Its lines were
the lines of the true pirate; its wings long and sharp-cut; its beak wickedly hooked at the
tip; its claws curved, for no gentle purpose, at the end of its webbed feet; its eye fierce
and haughty; its uniform the color of the very stormcloud that had just passed--dun and smoked
cream below, and sooty above.  True, he was not big, being only twenty-one inches--two inches
less than the herring-gull.  But what is size, anyway?  It was the fire that counted, the ferocity,
the "devil," the armament, and the appalling speed.  Just as a professional boxer of any size
can lay out any mere hulking hooligan, so this bird carried about him the stamp of the professional
fighter that could lay out anything there in that scene that he chose--almost.

The guillemot flew as never in all her life had she flown before, and every known artifice
of dodging she had heard of she tried, and--it all failed.  The terrible new bird gained all
the time steadily, following her as if towed by an invisible string, till at last he was above
her, his wonderful wild scream was ringing in her ears, his cruel eyes glaring into hers, his
beak snapping in her very face, his claws a-clutch.

No, thank you.  In sheer terror she opened her beak and dropped her fish.  It fell like a column
of silver, and in a flash her pursuer was gone--nay, was not gone; had turned, rather, into
a second column, a sooty one, falling like a thunderbolt, till he overtook even the falling
fish, and wonderfully snatched it up in his hooked bill ere ever it could touch the waves,
without a word or explanation of any kind whatever.

That, apparently, was his manner of getting his living; a strange manner, a peculiar way--the
way of the pirate on the ocean.

Despoiled, but safe, the guillemot rattled away "for another cast"; but the foe settled, riding
lightly on the lift and fall of the bottle-green waves.

Here he was no longer a wonderful phantom spirit of the storm, but just a bird that might have
been passed over at first glance as simply a seagull.  But not at a second glance.

Men called this strange bird Richardson's skua, or Arctic skua, or lesser skua, or, officially,
Stercorarius crepidatus, or, most unofficially, in the vernacular, "boatswain," or "man-o'-war,"
or "gull-tormentor."  Apparently you could take your choice what you called him.  But he did
not belong to Mr. Richardson really.  He belonged to nobody, only to himself, to the wind and
the rain, that seemed to have begot him, and to the grim north, from which he took his other
name.  He might have claimed the gulls as his near relations--they loathed him enough.

For a long time he sat on the lifting, breathing swell, floating idly. There was nothing else
on the face of the lonely waters except himself and a flock, or fleet, I should say, of razorbills
and guillemots, very far away, who alternately showed all white breasts, and vanished--as they
dived and rose all together--like white-faced, disappearing targets, and one gull, who wheeled
and wheeled in the middle distance, with one eye on the divers and one on the skua, as if,
gull-like, waiting on a chance from either.

Then at last the skua rose again, and swept hurriedly out to sea to meet a small black-and-white
speck that was coming in.  It was a little, rotund, parrot-beaked puffin, loaded with fish--sprats--four
of them set crossways in his wonderful bill.  He seemed to know nothing about the skua till
that worthy was upon him, and then, as he fled, after a furious chase of about three minutes,
he suddenly surrendered by letting fall all his spoil.

The skua caught up one sprat before it hit the surface, but, being too late to overtake the
rest, seemed to take no further notice of them, but swept on, to settle upon the water a mile
away and preen himself. And this was where the waiting, watching gull came in--the herring-gull.
He sprang to strenuous life, and, arriving swiftly at full speed over the spot, snatched up
off the surface, and by clumsily attempting to plunge, two more of the sprats, before the skua
could intervene.

Then it was that a terrible and a totally unexpected thing happened, and yet, if one comes
to think about it and study the matter more, the most natural in the world; probably, also,
on those wild seas, even common-place.  Only, you see, there was no interval at all between
the skua sitting placidly on the lap of the waves, eyeing the gull vengefully, and that same
skua shooting straight upwards, all doubled up, on the top of what appeared to have been a
submarine mine in a mild form in active demonstration.

This submarine mine, however, in addition to the burst and heave of torn and upflung falling
waters and foam, had a visible heart, a great, shining, wet, torpedo-shaped body, which rose
on end beneath the stricken bird, and fell again with a splintering crash that shot up the
heads of the diving birds half a mile away.  It might have been a thresher-shark, or some other
northern shark, or it might have been a dolphin, which is bad, or a killer whale, which is
a good deal worse, if it had not been a great gray seal seeking dinner; and its effect on the
luckless skua was the effect of a battering ram, and the skua that fell back again with the
fall of snarling water was to all intents and purposes a corpse.

But it was a good thing that he was so.  Had it been otherwise, had he tried to get away or
fluttered, there would have been no more of him. That is to say, the head of the seal came
up--or its wet and suggestive big nose did--and poked about, trying to find the bird.  It had
evidently meant to grab him, to engulf him utterly and forever in the first rush; but something--some
unlooked-for lift of a wave or turn of the bird--had made the shot miss, or nearly miss, so
that the bird had been hit by the bloated six-footer's nose, instead of being crushed in its
teeth--its terrible long and glistening array of murderous teeth.

All the same, the nose blow was bad enough.  It was like being hit by the beak of a torpedo
at full speed, fit almost to bash a boat in.

The seal was quite evidently looking for the bird, and, equally quite evidently, seemed bound
to find him.  To know why it did not at once see him is to know that the seal's view, from
below the surface, of the world above is about a twelve-foot circle of white-gold light, that
is all; and the skua, floating limp and floppy, had been, by chance, till then always carried
hither and yon by the waves just outside that circle.  But that chance could not last.

Then came the other seal.  Came she easily and gracefully, as a seal should in her element,
effortlessly gliding along, her head from time to time up like a dog's--some gentle dog's,
say a mild-eyed spaniel's--looking about.  She was just a female seal.  She knew nothing of
the bird or her companion, who were at sea-level, and more often than not hidden in the trough,
till she came sliding down the slope of a round-barreled swell, practically on top of them.
Then it was too late to avoid mutual recognition.

