THE GREEN CARNATION

New York D. Appleton and Company 1894

Copyright, 1894, by D. Appleton and Company.

I.

He slipped a green carnation into his evening coat, fixed it in its place with a pin, and looked
at himself in the glass, the long glass that stood near the window of his London bedroom. 

"But there's no boat," said Marks, - 'and the ice is terrible, Tom - is it not dangerous? "

"Do not know - nothing, - but 's must be done," said Tom decided.

"Well, but," said Marks restless, "'s - just look," going to the window,
"' s dark as in 'NEM cleft palate, and, Tom - "

"Short and long, you are fearful, Marks, - but can not help - have
to over.

Faith no, will you lie here a few days before the girl dragged in
the lowlands is, according to Sandusky or so, before you turn your
power.

"

"Oh, I do not no, fear, - not at all," said Marks, only "-"

"What's that?" Said Tom.

"I mean 's boat.

You see, 'tis no boat here. "

The woman told me that one coming this evening, and that a man wants
in it over.

All or nothing, we must with him through it, "said Tom.

"You have but good dogs?" Said Haley.

"The very best," said Marks, "but what they help?

You have nothing of it, they turn to let smell. "

"Oh yes," said Haley, triumphantly. "This is her scarf, which she in a hurry on the bed has left behind
- and even her hat. "

"That's good," remarked Locker, 'give's her. "

"But the dog could" damage s wife, if she would be on it without seeing, "said Haley.

"Of course, that's a another question," said Marks.

"Our dogs tore the other day 'nen Kerl half to pieces, in Mobile, before we could loskriegen
of him. "

"Yes, well, look, = = the variety is sold after that as it looks, well, see, - that is not, "said
Haley.

"Of course," said Marks. "Besides, it has been hidden somewhere,'s also helps nothing. Dogs are
good for nothing here in these States, where they drive these outliers,
of course, they can not find the track.

                         They are just below good, in the plantations, where the niggers,
if they want to pull even have to run and get no help.

"

"Well then," said Locker, who had meanwhile gone to make inquiries, "I hear the man with the
boats came, so Marks - "

This gentleman took a sad look on the cozy relationships that he had left had, however, rose slowly from
his seat, to obey. After a few exchanged further Words, the Convention concerning Haley handed with visible
internal struggles, the fifty U.S. dollars to Tom, and the worthy trio separated for the evening
then.

If some conflict among our readers educated and Christian society
is in which they have been introduced in this scene, we must ask them
their prejudices to fight at times, as we remind them that the business
of capturing the Slave has now begun to be raised to a patriotic and
legal professions.

If all of 'the vast country between the Mississippi and the Pacific
Ocean, a large market for Bodies and souls, and human property, the
locomotive tendencies of the nineteenth Century maintains, the slave
traders and slave catchers can easily still in its Ranks of our aristocracy
are recording.

-------------------------

During this scene in the inn TOOK PLACE, Sam and Andy pursued in the highest self-satisfaction their
way back.

Sam was in a state of perfect high spirits and expressed his Cheers by yelling and howling
all about natural kind and the most diverse Movements and contortions
of his whole body out.

Sometimes he sat back, with his face after the horses turned tail and jumped up suddenly with
a cry and Burzelbaume around to the other side and pulled his face into a serious length and Andy
started in high-flown words to make accusations about his laugh and
his pranks fool.

With all these evolutions he managed to keep the horses in complete rush to their feet at last
between ten elf clock rang and on the paved paths in the balcony of the house. Mrs. Shelby
flew out to the balcony.

"Is it you, Sam? Where are they? "She cried.

»Master Haley resting at the inn, and he's very tired, missis," replied Sam.

"And Eliza, Sam?"

"She's over Jordan - as one might say, in the land of Canaan."

"What, Sam, what do you mean?"

Said Mrs. Shelby, breathless and almost fainted as she possible Believe these words,.

"Well, missis, the Lord protects His own. Lizy has come over the river, in Ohio, so strange than
if it had carried over into the Lord 'NEM fiery chariot and two horses. "

Sam's devotion vein was always very warm and full, when he stood before his mistress, and he used
to be strong in Biblical characters and images move.

"Come up here, Sam," said Mr. Shelby, who had followed his wife in the porch, "and tell your mistress
what she wants to know. Come, come, Emilie, "he then added, "You're cold and freeze, you seem
very down to your feelings."

"My feelings too much to go? Am I not a woman, and - a mother? Are we not both God for this poor
creature responsible? O my God! do not write this sin in our Book-entry! "

"What sin, Emily? You can see for yourself that we have only done what we are forced had to
do. "

"And yet utilized a terrible feeling of guilt on me," said Mrs. Shelby,
- "I it may scare away by any reasoning.

"

"Here, Andy, you, nigger, be alert," said Sam, under the porch;! "Bring these horses here in the
stable - not hear Master call "and immediately appeared Sam, his palm-leaf? in hand, at the
door of the room.

"Well, Sam, tell us clearly what has gone," said Mr. Shelby.

"Where is Eliza, if You know it. "

"Well, Master, I saw with my own eyes how she was'" About the floating ice. 'S was quite amazing,
's was almost a miracle - and then saw what I call a man who helped
her ', continue up the Ohioseite, and then they disappeared in fog.

"

"Sam, it seems to me something apocryphes before - this miracle. Over the floating ice go is
not easy, "said Mr. Shelby.

"Easy - no one could have done without the Lord's. Yes, look, "said Sam, '' t was just Sun Master
Haley, and me, and Andy, we arrive at the small inn on the river, and I ride forward a bit (was
so eager to catch Lizy could 'keep me not at all) - and as I get closer to the window, as she
stood tall and wide, and = = The boot behind me. I lose my hat, and scream out loud enough to wake
all the dead.

Lizy, of course, heard it and ducks, as Master Haley passed the window, and then, look, it jumps
by 'Ne side-out and down to the stream. Master Haley saw her clearly, and cried us, and he
and I and Andy, we along behind her. - She jumps grad 'down to the
River, and there was a current along the shore - ten feet wide - and
after 'ne large amount Ice up and down - just as if it were an island.

We are close behind her, and I thought ' my soul, it had been safe enough - if they even utters
such a scream as I never heard - and there it was - grad 'over across
the river - up on the ice, and now she went on - jumping and screaming
- and the ice went crack! - Crack! - And on down - and she jumps over
it grad 'like a goat! - O Lord! the jumps, these girls have in themselves,
This is incredible - think 'I'

Mrs. Shelby sat silent, pale with
excitement, while Sam told his story.

"God be praised, it is not dead," she said;? "But where the poor child now '

"The Lord will provide," said Sam, his eyes roll up religious. "Like I said, 'tis 'Ne providence and no
doubt, as Missis has always taught. As more are tools to do for the Lord's will. So if it were
not I been present, it would be a dozen times been caught. That's not me who let the horses go
up this morning and midday drove around with?

And I have not dissuaded Master Haley good five miles of the road, this evening, or he would
have Lizy obtained as easily as a dog 'nen monkeys.

These things all of Providence. "

"These things are a kind Providence, which I advise you to avoid it in the future, Master Sam.
I do not allow similar pranks against men on my estate, "said Mr. Shelby with so much earnestness,
as he put together under the circumstances in his face could.

However, it is equally vain to try to believe a Negro in that angry with it was like a child,
both instinctively see the true state of things, all efforts whatever was to create the opposite
impression, and Sam Wherefore by this Accusation is not in the least discouraged, although he
assumed the air of sorrow and grave with mouth drawn down in a most penitent attitude stood
there.

»Master quite right - quite right, was very ugly to me - no doubt - and, of course, Master and
Missis is so 'not to say what is good. See the one, yes - but a poor nigger I sometimes large
tempted to act ugly when a man is such a prima facie will indicate how as Mr. Haley, - he not
a gentleman, - who was brought up like me, the slightly can see. "

"Well, Sam," said Mrs. Shelby, "since you seem to view your mistakes due moderation, so like
you now go to Aunt Chloe and tell her that you some of that cold ham should indicate the range
of noon today remains. You and Andy, you must both be hungry. "

"Missis great too good for us," said Sam, using his bow with great agility made and left the
room.

Our readers will have noticed what has been already suggested by us earlier that Sam possessed
an innate talent, which he in a political life without a doubt one of great Award would have charged -
the talent to make a capital out of all that is offered him, and it is appropriate to his special
prizes and glory be created. After he now as he thought, had put sufficient piety and humility
of the day to the satisfaction to secure the grand living room, he opened his palm leaves around
the head with a Art # rakish, free and easy air #, and turned the field Aunt Chloe's to, with the
intention of to play this evening in the kitchen a very important role.

"I want to talk about these niggers," he said to himself, "now I 'have ne occasion. Lord! how
I want to roll on, that they should stare! "

It must be mentioned here that it had always been one of Sam's greatest pleasures, his accompany
Lord as a servant on the road to political meetings of any kind to be allowed where he, on some
iron railings or sitting high up hanging in a tree, the speaker To listen with the greatest pleasure
seemed, and then to the various brothers down of his own color rose, which had gathered for
the same purpose here, and the strangest by the antics and imitations to amuse tried to order
but all given by him with the most solemn and most steadfast earnestness were the best, and
although the audience gathered around him at first usually brothers of his color, so it was still
not uncommon for those enclosed by a circle of brighter faces were, what were listening, laughing
and waving to Sam's greatest satisfaction.

Sam looked at all oratory as the field of his profession, and had missed an opportunity this
glorify profession.

Unfortunately, there was between Sam and Aunt Chloe since ancient times, a sort of chronic feud,
or rather, a strong cold, alone, as Sam, as a necessary document to his Operations, speculated
on something solid from the department of the store-room, so decided He agreed to take this opportunity
as the conciliatory tone, for he knew very well that, although the
'from' Missis given commands without doubt be followed literally would
it still could be of advantage to him if he could succeed at the same
time, the good Aunt Chloe's sake, for the win.

Wherefore he appeared before her with a touching Air of exhaustion and resignation, as someone
who for the sake of a persecuted people unspeakable suffering has
gone through, - claimed the "of"

Missis received instructions to Aunt Chloe because of the balance necessary to restore its food
and beverage business, - and recognized by their sovereign right to unambiguous way of the whole
kitchen with all the accessories department on revisions.

The ruse was entirely successful, for never a poor, simple, innocent soul was a Votes collected
Parlamentscandidaten won easily, as Aunt Chloe by Sam's flattery;
and if he had been himself the prodigal son, he would not with more
maternal Generosity can be overwhelmed.

He found himself so very soon, happy and glorious Sitting in front of a tin pan, which contained
a kind of olla potrida # # all that had come in the last two to three days on the table. Juicy
slices of ham, golden Corn cake pieces and fragments of a pie of every conceivable mathematical
figure, chicken wings, Goiter and stomach, all showed up in a picturesque mix, and Sam, as
the rulers all that could see what he was, with happy on the side pressed palm leaf before it,
and graciously allowed Andy to sit on his right side.

The whole kitchen was filled with his godparents who rushed from their
huts on were pushed into it and had to to hear the result of the days
events.

Now Sam's had beaten glorious hour. The story of the day, with each possible Repeated decoration,
which could serve to increase the effect, for Sam, like some our modern Dilettanti, never let
a story on its gilding lose, that she went through his hands. Roaring laughter accompanied
the report, and was the younger brood, which in various groups on the ground and in all corners
around was recorded and continued. Sam kept however during this turmoil and laughter the staunchest
Ernst, roll up from time to time his eyes and his audience inexpressibly comic looks to throw, but without
leaving his unctuous rich tone.

"Look, fellow," said Sam, as he picked up a duck leg with great energy,
- "You see then that child grade - as has become a protection for
all of you - yes, you all, for who long to try one of our people,
is as good as if all: You see, = = the principle's the same thing
- that's clear.

And each of these drivers is to come here sniff around for our people, yes, he should meet
me in his way, - = I = am the guy who has to connect with it, - = = I'm the guy to which you
must all come, brothers, - I will stand up for your rights - I will
defend to the last breath "

"But Sam, until this morning you said to me that you wanted to be
master of catching Lizy, - Seems to me, 's problems are not quite
what you say, "remarked Andy. 

"I'll tell you, Andy," Sam replied
with an expression of a dreadful superiority "Do not have to speak
of what you do not understand - guys like you, Andy think's good,
but can not colludiren the great principle of action. "

Andy made
an embarrassed face, especially due to the weight definition colludiren
"," which all the younger members of society, regarded as crucial
in the matter, while Sam continued:

"That was = = conscience, Andy,
- when I'm on it Lizy track, believes' I am sitting Master the way,
when I found Missis was the other way, that was more conscience =
=, - as' s always better to keep one hand on our page missis, - so
you see, I'm persistent by any means, and keep on conscience - and
on principle. Yes, principle, "said Sam, a Goose neck an enthusiastic
shock move, - "what are good principle, if we do not are persistent,
I want to know? - Da, Andy, the bone can have here, - 's is still
something in it. "

Since Sam's audience hung on his words with his
mouth open so he could not continue as.

"This object persistence,
brothers Niggers," said Sam with a look, as if to respond to a highly
abstract subject - "a thing is not quite clear for some one. Look,
if a man is quite a day and night for one thing, and the next for
'ne other people say (naturally enough) it is not persistent, - Andy,
Give me the piece Corn cakes there. - But do's take a closer look.
I hope the gentlemen and ladies from the beautiful Sex will excuse
'ne ordinary equation. Here! I want to climb up the haystack. Well,
I put my head this side - 's not possible, - then, of course, I use
my head just the other side - I'm not persistent? I am persistent,
because I any side wants to climb up where my head is, - you not see
that all? "

"'T is the only one where you're ever persistent in,
Lord knows! Chloe murmured aunt, who gradually began essays are, as
the gaiety of the evening for her - for a Biblical parables - "how
was vinegar" on the chalk.

"Yes, really," said Sam, full of supper
and glory feeling of a final effort rising. "Yes, my fellow citizens
and ladies of the opposite sex in general, I have Princip's, - I am
proud to confess, - are excellent at this time and all time. I should hope not. Why, Aubrey Beardsley and Mr. Amarinth had not been invented
then, and 'The Second Mrs. Tanqueray' had never been written, and women hardly ever smoked,
and----"

"And men did not wear green carnations," Lady Locke said.

Mrs. Windsor turned towards her cousin, and lifted her darkened eyebrows to her fair fringe.

"Emily, what do you mean? Ah! here is our Bovril! I feel so delightfully vicious when I drink
it, so unconventional! You speak as if you disliked our times."

"I hardly know them yet. I have been a country cousin for ten years, you see. I am quite colonial."

"Poor dear child. How horrid. I suppose you have hardly seen chiffon. It must have been like
death. But do you really object to the green carnation?"

"That depends. We
see this whereas our expression, Euripides had the audience on the stage brought to the viewer to
truly make urtheilsfaehig, was only a provisional, and that we have to look for a deeper understanding
of its tendency. Conversely, it is yes everyone knows how Aeschylus and Sophocles of her life,
so far about the same addition, in full possession of popular favor were, so how these predecessors
of Euripides can not be a disproportion between the artwork and Publicum the speech. What drove
the richly talented and constantly urged to work by artists such violence the way down, over
which the sun of the greatest poets of the names and the cloudless sky Popularity lit? What
strange consideration for the audience led him to the audience Collected? How could he made
too much respect for his public - disregard his public?

Euripides felt himself - that is the solution of the riddle just described - as a poet well
over the mass, but not over, two of his audience raised: the mass, he brought on the stage,
those two spectators he revered as the only judge and urtheilsfaehigen Master of all his art
to their instructions and reminders following he translated the whole world of sensations, passions
and experiences to date on the Zuschauerbaenken as choir invisible to any gala performance sets
in, in the souls of his Buehnenhelden, he yielded to their demands, as he prepared for these new
characters, the new word and the sought new tone in their voices but he heard the valid Richtersprueche
his work just like the siegverheissende encouragement when the Justice of the public again once condemned
him.

Euripides himself, Euripides the thinker, not a - Of the two fans one is Poet.


Her cousin glanced at her for a moment with a tinge of uneasy inquiry. She was not very sharp,
although she was very receptive of modern philosophy.

"Well," she said, a little doubtfully, "not quite that, I suppose."

"We are to sin on the house-top and in the street, instead of in the privacy of a room with
the door locked. But what will the London County Council say?"

"Oh, they have nothing to do with our class. They only concern themselves with acrobats, and
respectable elderly women who are fired from cannons. That is so right. Respectable elderly
women do so much harm. Mr. Amarinth said to-night--in the garden scene, if you remember--that
prolonged purity wrinkled the mind as much as prolonged impurity wrinkled the face. 

"And be careful what you say you, Master George. Young people, when they are in your age come,
are idiosyncratic, sometimes - it 's nature, but a real gentleman, like you a will be, I hope,
never dropping words about their parents who are not respectful. If you are not angry, Master
George? "

"Oh no, certainly not, Uncle Tom, You have always given me good advice."

"I'm older, you know," said Tom, by the beautiful curly hair of the boy with his big strong
hand stroked, but it spoke with a voice as soft as that of a Woman was, "and I see All that
lies in you, - wisdom, standing, reading, writing, - And you will grow up and a great, learned,
good man to be, and all the people in Places, and your father and your mother will be proud
of you.

Its also a good master, like your father - and a good Christian, like your mother. Remember your
Creator in the Days when you are young, Master George. "

"Yes, I will be really good, Uncle Tom, I vow 's you," said George,
"and you should not discouraged.

I want you in any case to have us back.

I like Aunt Chloe this morning I said, - I will have to expand your house again and you should
have an own room with a carpet in it if I am a man. O, Thou shalt
not have good times!

"

Haley entered the door of the forge with the iron hand in hand.

"Listen, Mr. Haley," said George with an air of great superiority, while the Car jumped, "I'll
show it to my parents, like your Uncle Tom treated!"

love ought to "be me," said the dealer.

should I think you ought to be ashamed of yourself, your life buying
men and women and close together like cattle!

I would think you definitely need your own disgusting !

Happen, "said George.

want to "make it now as long as your men are still men and women, - I am as good as those, "said
Haley;" 's is not selling worse than now. "

"I will do neither of the two if I am a man," said George. "I am ashamed of today, I am a Kentuckian,
- previously I was always proud "And George was sitting on his.

Horses just like that, and looked with such a face around, as if he expected that the whole
State should be convinced of this.

"Farewell, Uncle Tom, keep good courage," said George.

"Farewell, Master George," replied Uncle Tom, looking at him fondly and with admiration. "God
Almighty bless you! - Oh, Kentucky has not many like you, "he added,! as the free, open face
of the boy was removed from his eye.

George flew away, and Tom looked after him until the hooves of his horse was no longer heard,
- the last note, the last look from his home. But over his heart seemed to be a warm place to
be, there where those young hands had laid the precious dollars. Tom raised his hand on and
pressed firmly on his heart.

"Now listen, Tom, I will tell you what," said Haley, as he approached
the car and the Handcuffs threw in, "I mean, you shall 's are good
with me how's my nigger ever have found, and so I tell you straight
to the beginning, you're honest with me, and I'm good against you.

'm Never hard on my nigger, - always Thue's best for them, what I can. So, you see, Gescheidste
is, you are calm and happy and make me no tricks; for characterizing
the nigger jokes' I have all, and I finished.

If niggers are quiet and do not try to run away, they have a good
time with me, and if not, well, for so 'S is their own fault and not
mine.

"

Tom assured Haley that he did not intend to run away. The admonition seemed be addressed, in
fact, quite unnecessarily, to a man who had suffered serious leg irons wore on his legs. Solo
Mr. Haley had the habit of his relation to new Waarenartikeln always open with little to such
admonitions, the aim of which as he thought, to infuse them with good cheer and confidence, and the
necessity of unpleasant to prevent certain scenes.

And here we assume for now from Uncle Tom farewell to the fate of other persons of our to follow narrative.

CHAPTER
XI.

Which the property falls into an inappropriate state of mind.

It was on a rainy afternoon when a passenger at the door of a small
inn in the village of N - in Kentucky descent.

In Schenk room he found a very mixed society, which was the weather here in search of protection,
driven together, and gave the place Therefore, the usual scenery of such meetings. Great, gaunt
Kentuckian, in their Hunting shirts, their articulated limbs, so
peculiar to them in the cozy, laziness stretched over an incredible
space, - guns, which were stacked in the corners, Hunting bags, shot
bags, hunting dogs, small blacks, by rolling each other in colorful
mixture, - Were the characteristic features of the painting.

On each side of the fireplace sat a long-legged Gentleman, with reclining chair, his hat on
his head, and the heels of his muddy Boots on the mantels rest leaving, - a position which,
as we assure our readers have ruled favorably for the kind of considerations is that in those
western Inns to be found, in which passengers a peculiar fondness for this peculiar Way nachzuhelfen
their reflectivity, create your day.

The landlord, who was standing behind the bar, was, like most of his countrymen, tall of stature,
good-natured and clever, with an incredible blanket of hair on his head, on which he wore a
large, high hat.

It came in the room at all any sign of this character male sovereignty, be it a Felbelhut, or
a palm leaf, a dirty felt hat, or a nice, new # # Chapeau, - there
he rested with genuine republican independence, and seemed, in fact,
the characteristic feature of each individuality to be.

Some wore it boldly on the side down - that was lively, funny, happy guy; Others had him pushed
down to low on the nose, - those were the tough characters, and by men by which, if they wore a hat that
would carry him across, and just as they pleased; Andre still left him far behind on, - far-sighted
men of all a wanted to have clear vision, while others again, carefree men who either did
not know or are not made from the way her hat, was sitting around him on all sides floated.
The various hats, in fact, granted a field for a truly Shakespear Sches study.

Several negroes were in wide trousers, bustling back and forth, without having a could detect
peculiar result of their busyness, but with the peculiar to their sex Willingness to reverse
everything in all creation to its official master and his guests be. Imagine, finally, dear
reader, to this picture a jolly, crackling fire, which drive up the big, wide chimney, - all
the doors and windows wide open, so that the curtains in the cold, damp draft blown to and fro, -
and you have an idea of the amenities of a Kentucky inn.

The Kentuckian of the present time is an excellent sensualisation the doctrine of inherited Instincts
and peculiarities.

His ancestors were mighty hunters, - men who in the woods, lived and slept under the open sky and the
light of the star, and you Descendant is up to the present day as if the house were his stock,
- with his hat at all times, rolls around and throws his heels on the chairs and fireplace mantels,
just like his forefather himself about on the pitch, rolled to his feet and strains trees and wondered
- will remain open all windows and doors, summer and winter - everyone calls "Stranger" with
nonchalant bonhomie # #, and such is the open-hearted, and unceremoniously natured creature
in the world.

In such a free and easy society was our traveler. He was a short, stocky Man, carefully dressed,
with a round, good-natured face, and had something funny, In all
its strange appearance.

He appeared for his bag and his umbrella be very concerned, because he brought them with his own
hands and come here stubbornly resisted all attempts of the servants
to relieve him of that burden.

By a little anxious in the Schenk room looked around, he retired with his treasures in the warmest
corner of the same back, put it under his chair, sat down, and looked
almost fearful to to honor the man whose heels were worn by the fireplace
mantels, and continuously from spat right to left with a courage and
a violence that men of weak nerves and had peculiar habits necessary
to feel troubled by.

"Good day, stranger, how are you?"

Said the Lord had just described by providing a salute Tabackssaft from the area after the new
arrival's fired.

"Pretty good," was the reply of the other, while the threat of unrest, with some honor sought to avoid.

"News"
asked the former again, a role tobacco, and a large hunting knife
from his Taking pocket.

"Would that not," was the reply.

"Chewing" asked That, by the old man a piece of tobacco with genuine fraternal countenance sufficed.

"No,
thank you - it does not suit me," said the little man, hitching back.

"Do not, ah so," remarked the other, while appropriate the tobacco in his mouth stuck to there, the
requisite supply of juice for the general good of society in constant
readiness to hold.

     
     
     The old gentleman was always a silent horror to see if his brother
     after his long to firing area, and saw this as that, he got his artillery
     to good-natured attacking in another direction, and started the fire
     tongs with a degree military talent, would have been sufficient to
storm a city.

     
     

"What's that?" Asked the old gentleman when he longer present a major Anschlagezettel grouped saw.

"A nigger is made public," said one of them briefly.

Mr. Wilson, because that was the name of the old man stood up, and
after carefully his had his travel bag and umbrella handle down, he
walked slowly to his glasses pull out, this was on the nose, and then
began to read:

"The undersigned escaped a Mulattenbursche, George.

Said George is six feet tall, a very light colored mulatto, has brown,
curly hair, speaks well, can read and write; will probably try to
pass for a white man, has deep Scars on his back and shoulders, and
carries on right hand a stigma with the letter H # #.

I will give four hundred dollars for him alive, and the same Total for the full proof that he was killed.
"

The old gentleman read this ad from beginning to end in a low voice,
as if he studied them.

The long-legged veteran, who, as mentioned before, the tongs had stormed now its great length
down, raised his tall figure, strode to the place where this ad was struck, and then play a full load
of Tabackssaft the same.

"It is my opinion about it," he said briefly, and then sat down again.

"Oho, stranger to what you mean?" Said Wirth.

"I would do the same with the point, he has written if he were here,"
replied coolly the tall man, while he made his old job, cut tobacco,
again.

"Anyone one guy has like, and can find no better way to treat him, deserves = = to lose it. Such
papers as there are a disgrace to Kentucky! That is my Opinion out just when someone wants to know
them! "

"This is' certain times," said the landlord, while he signed something in his book.

"I have a troop of boys, sir," I said the long man by his attack on the Tongs began anew, "and
talk to them like this: -> boys', I say -> now running, Run! if you want! - I want you never
to run after <- So halt 'I = I =. Let them 'S know that they can
run away if they want, they just lose the desire.

Moreover, I made out free coupons for all of them, in case I 'is too colorful times in the
present Times, and they know it. I tell you, stranger, 's gives no guy here, the longer brings out
his negroes, as I do. Do you believe it?

My boys are up to Cincinnati been worthy of filling, five hundred dollars, and gave me the money
brought home all right, - More than once. 'S is natural why.

Treat them like dogs, and you have dogs work; treated them like people, and you have people work. "And
the honest horse dealer confirmed his moral sense in that he is a feu de joie formal # # let
go to the fireplace.

"I think you're completely right, my friend," said Mr. Wilson, "and described here Guy is really
a good fellow, - no doubt about it.

He has for me almost six worked for years in my bag factory, and was my best worker, Mr. He
is also a clever and inventive fellow.

He has invented a machine for cleaning of hemp, - A really valuable thing, which is now used
in many factories. His master has the patent on it. "

"Can I think of it," said the horse trader, "did it and make money with, and then turns around
and blows the guy right in the hand. If I 'had ne good opportunity, I wanted to draw him, my soul,
should he 's' a good time to take him. "

"Yes, the wise guys are all the naughty, impertinent rascal," said a man of raw, ungeschlachtem
externals, on the other side of the room, "that's why she's whipped and be drawn. If they are
neat trick, would 's not done. "

"I mean, God has made man, and 's must be a hard pressure in order to to make beasts, "said the
horse trader dry.

"Kluge Niggers are useless even for 'nen Lord," continued the other, against a contempt his
opponent in a crude, unconscious obtuseness was well entrenched,
- "What do They talents and stuff, if you can even have no benefit?

Everything she is doing, that she will cheat.

Have not had a couple of those guys, but they have sold down the river soon. Knew that I would
lose early or late, when I do not's that. "

"Even better, you send an order up to the loving God that He creates what you without souls,
"said the horse trader.

Here was the conversation before the approach by driving a small, one-horse cabriolet's the inn
was suspended. It had a decent outward appearance, and there was a finely dressed Man with a colored
servant, who drove.

The whole assembly in Schenk room looked at the new arrival with curiosity, with which inn guests
on a rainy days usually observe a fresh arrivals. He was very tall and had a dark, Spanish
countenance, beautiful, expressive Eyes, and thick, curly hair, which was also pitch black. His well-shaped,
aquiline nose, his thin lips, and the strikingly beautiful forms of his limbs excited of the
whole society for the notion of something unusual. He walked with a slight Attitude in the room,
greeted the company, and indicated by a sign to the waiter, where
he did sit down his valise, which he, with his hat in his hand, carelessly
went to the sideboard, Shelby and his name as Henry Butler, of Oakland,
County, stated.

Is then turning around with an air of indifference, he strolled to the regulations posted in
the room Notice approach, and read them.

"Jim," he said to his servant, I think we have a guy who like this
states met in the vicinity of Bernan, right?

"

"Yes, indeed, master," said Jim, "only I do not know if it's true with your hand?"

"I did not, of course, paid attention," said the stranger, carelessly,
yawning.

Then the go to the inn, he called for a special room, because, as he said, once some Writings
had feared.

The landlord was very willing, and half a dozen negroes, old and young, male and female, young and
old, jumped out around the same, hurried and busy, partridges as a people, stepping on each
other's feet and stumbling over each other in their Zeal to put master's
room in state, during which he carelessly in a chair in the middle
of the room and settled with him the first sitting began a conversation
had.

The manufacturer, Mr. Wilson was the stranger from the first moment
from where he came into the room was seen with the expression restless
curiosity.

He thought he was seen somewhere and have learned to know, but he
could not remember where. Every moment when the Man spoke or smiled,
or moved, he got up and fixed his eyes on him and then turned quickly
away again when the dark, glowing eyes of the same to his own met
with the expression of the most carefree rest. At last, a sudden memory
seemed flare up in him, for he stared at the stranger with a look
of such wonder and such Secrets of that this went up to him.

"Mr.
Wilson, if I mistake not, "he said in a tone as he recognized it as
just his Hand-stretching. "I beg your pardon, I have not noticed before.
I see you remember me - Mr. Butler, of Oakland, County of Shelby.
"

"Yes - yes - yes," said Mr. Wilson as someone who speaks in a dream.

Degrees
at this moment in came a negro boy, who announced that the rooms of
the Lord was ready.

"Jim, look after the luggage," said the Lord
carelessly, and then added, to Mr. Wilson Turning, he added: "I you
would for a brief conversation about business matters in my room To
ask if you do not mind. "

Mr. Wilson followed him, like one who walks
in sleep, and they arrived in a large Room on the upper floors, where
a freshly kindled fire crackled, and various servants even flew to
put the last touches to the order of the room.

When all was done
and the servants had retired, the young man carefully closed the door
and put the key in his pocket, looked around, and then his arms on
the chest beating each other, he looked Mr. Wilson full in the face.

"George,"
said Mr. Wilson. 

"Yes, George," replied the young man

"I would
not have thought's!"

"I'm pretty good distorted, I think," said the
young man

Mrs. Windsor, who was almost lost in the passion of the gazer, and who was bowing about twice
a minute to passing acquaintances, or to friends rigid upon tiny green chairs, gave a quarter
of her mind violently to her companion, and answered hurriedly--

"Two, dear, practically."

"Two!"

"Yes. His own mother divorced his father, and the latter has married again. The second Marchioness
of Hedfield wrote to Lord Reggie the other day, and said she was prepared to be a second mother
to him. So you see he has two. So nice for the dear boy."

"Do you think so? But his own mother--what is she like?"

"I don't know her. Nobody does. She never comes to town or stays in country houses. But I believe
she is very tall, and very religious--if you notice, it is generally short, squat people who
are atheists--and she lives at Canterbury, where she does a great deal of good among the rich.
They say she actually converted one of the canons to a belief in the Thirty-Nine Articles after
he had preached against them, and miracles, in the Cathedral. And canons are very difficult
to convert, I am told."

"Then she is a good woman. And is Lord Reggie fond of her?" The door flew open and the glow of the tallow candle, which Tom the
rush was set on fire, fell on her pale face and dark, wild eyes of the fugitive.

"God help! - I am afraid to see you, Lizy!

You're so sick, or what went with you? "

escape "I will, Uncle Tom and Aunt Chloe - and take my child with
me - Master sold it!

"

"Sold?" Both shouted unanimously, picking up their hands in horror.

"Yes sold," said Eliza with a firm voice. "I crawled in the cabinet this morning to Mrs.'s Door,
and heard how the Lord told her that he used my Harry and you, Uncle Tom, a Trader had sold,
and that he would ride away this morning, and that the dealer today
' take possession. wanted to "

Tom was during this speech, with uplifted hands and eyes wide open as a dreamer stand there. Slowly
and gradually, as he understood the meaning, he fell into his old Chair together, and let his
head fall on the knee.

"The good Lord was merciful to us," said Aunt Chloe. "Oh, it seems to me it is unable to perform
be! What has he done that the Lord = = should sell him? "

"Nothing he has done - it is not that account. Master sold him do not like, and Mrs., - Oh, it's
always good. I heard they fought for us and asked, but he told her that All was in vain that
he was in debt to this man, and that this man did in his Violence have, and that if he did not
pay out clean, it had to end up that the whole sold well with all people would, and he had to
go away. Yes, I heard him say it clear that he had no choice but
to either or both of these all sell, because the Man it so hard urge.

MasterCard said it would do him sorry, but oh! Missis, - she Had your to hear and speak! If it
is not a Christian and not an angel, there never was one. I am a poor woman that I am leaving them
so, but I can not help it. She said itself, a soul is worth more than the world - and this boy
has a soul, and if I'll drag him away, then who knows what will happen? It must be right,
- but if it is wrong, may God forgive me, for I can not help it!

"

"Well, old age," said Aunt Chloe, "why do not you go? Will you wait until you see the river
'Will nuntergeschleppt where they kill niggers with hard work and starvation? I wanted to die
much, much better than to go there, ever! S 'is still time - join' continue with Lizy, - You
'to come NEN passport and go all the time. Come, join 'on, - I want your Things look together. "

Tom slowly raised to his head and looked sorrowfully and composed around and said:

"No, no, - I will not go. Let's go 'Elisa - she's right!

I did not want be the one to say no - 'tis not stay in = = nature for them, but you have heard
what she said! If I have to be sold, or all the people on the estate, and all is destroyed, now
- let me be sold. Can think, who's as good as the one, " he added, while a sigh and a kind of
sob his broad, rough chest convulsively shaken. - "Master I have always found out of place
- he is always. I have never broken my word, - and never used my passport anywhere against
my promise, and will take it. S 'is better that I go alone, but that everything is made and sold.
Master is not to blame, Chloe, and he will provide for you and the poor - "

Here he turned to the broad roll-away bed, which was full of little woolly heads, and broke down
completely. He leaned over the back of a chair and covered his face with his big hands. Difficult
and deep groan made the chair totter under him, and large, heavy tears fell through his fingers on
the floor, just such tears, Man, how you wept over the coffin of your first-born, such tears,
woman, how your Streamed from the eye, as you heard the cries of your dying infant. Because, sir,
he was man, and you're just a, - and wife, if the same covered with silk and jewels, You're just
a woman, and in difficult moments of life both of you feel the same pain!

"And now," - said Eliza, as she stood in the doorway, "I saw and spoke these Afternoon my husband
when I had no idea of ​​the coming of what would.

You have it very depressed, and he told me today that he would escape. Please register to see
him Message to give.

Tell him I'm gone, and why, and tell him that I wanted to try, to
reach Canada.

You have to bring him my regards, and tell him in case I'll never
again should see "- here she turned around and stood for a moment,
those with their backs face, then she added in a hoarse voice, "tell
him that he should always be good, - To me in heaven to see you again.

"

in. "Call Bruno," she added. "Open the door before him, good creature! It may not be with me go, "

Some
words and tears, yet, a simple goodbye, and she wondered, frightened
child in her arms pushing, she slipped quietly away.

CHAPTER VI.

The discovery.

Mr. and Mrs. Shelby were a result of the long conference in the evening
not soon their sleep, Wherefore the next morning and slept a little
longer than usual.

"I marvel me, where's Eliza," said Mrs. Shelby, after the bell several
times in vain had drawn.

Mr. Shelby was standing in front of his bathroom mirror, and sharpened his razor, and in this
very Moment the door opened, and a colored boy brought in the Rasirwasser.

"Andy,"

said his mistress, "go to Elisha's door, and tell her that I already rung three times have. Wretch,
"she added with a sigh.

Andy soon returned, but with eyes that were wide with amazement.

"O Missis! Lizy's drawers is all open, and their stuff all around
- and I think it is like this!

"

Mr. Shelby and his wife saw in that moment what had happened.

He said: "Then she has become suspicious, and is gone!

"

"God be thanked," said Mrs. Shelby. "I hope so!"

"Woman, you talk like a fool! Truly this is a great embarrassment for me To give if she is really
gone. Haley saw that I hesitated to sell this child, and now he'll think I've helped with to
carry away it. It touches my honor! " And Mr. Shelby left the room hurriedly.

Now, about a quarter of an hour long one began running and screaming, and Thürenauf-opening and
closing, and faces of all colors and shades were visible in different places. Only a person who
might have shed some light on the matter can spread said no Word, and that was the chief cook,
Aunt Chloe. Silently, with a dark cloud to their usually cheerful face, his employment, the
biscuits for breakfast to toast, as if she heard of the general movement
around them and saw nothing.

Very soon hung about a dozen young colored offspring, just as many crows, on the iron railing
of the veranda, each determined to be first, of the foreign Lord
bring the message.

"He will be very great, my soul," said Andy.

"Will he not curse = =?" Said the little black jack.

"Yes, because he curses always," said the wanted member Mandy. "I heard him yesterday, at dinner, I
listen for everything because I was in Missis chamber was to be the big pots, - I Hear everything.
"And Mandy, who never in her life to the meaning of a word which they heard was more intended
as a black cat, was now the reputation of a particular Knowledge, and completely forgot to mention
that although they are at the specified time found huddled in the
harness room, she had slept there the whole time.

When at last Haley appeared, booted and spurred, he was on all sides
by the evil Message welcomed.

The young imps on the verandah were in their expectation of him "curse" be heard, not disappointed,
for he did so with a fluency that greatly amused all, while they cowered and clung to out of
range of his riding whip be, and then mocking him in full chorus,
with endless laughter in a heap on the dry grass under the porch collapsed
and cried out to your heart and scream.

"If I only had the little devils," Haley muttered between his teeth.

"But you have them not," Andy said with a triumphant laugh behind the backs of the unfortunate
Dealer ago when he was removed enough to be heard no more, and cut him faces after the most
heinous.

"Now truly, Shelby, this is a very strange trade," said Haley, as
he no Circumstances in the living room was.

"It seems the girl is gone with her boys!"

"Mr. Haley, Mrs. Shelby is present, "said Shelby.

"Ah, I beg your pardon, ma'am," said Haley, bowing a little, but still with a gloomy face, "but I
must not 'say, this is" ne very strange message. Is it true, sir?

"

"Mr. Haley, "said Shelby," if you want to talk to me, you have in
your conduct observe the decorum of a gentleman.

Andy, take the Lord's hat and the whip off. Sit down.

Yes, sir, I regret to tell you that the young woman, after either overheard our conversation and
know their content in other ways has, during the night has fled with
her child.

"

must say "I," said Haley, "I expected honest trade."

"Stop, sir," said Mr. Shelby, turning round sharply against him, "how
am I to this comment ?

Understand As soon as someone calls into question my honor, I have only = one = answer. "

These words made an impression on the dealer and he realized now with more moderate voice that
It was really hard for a man who has embarked on a deal honestly,
be deceived in this way.

"Mr. Haley, "said Shelby," if I were to assume that you give some reasons for dissatisfaction
had, I would not even the rough and rude manner with which this morning in this room appeared
to have tolerated. However, I must say as much, since it necessarily seems to be that I will
not allow comments to me in a bad faith accuse the shops. Besides, I would consider it my duty
to you every possible assistance through use of my horses, servants,
etc to make.

So with a Words, Haley, "he added, suddenly the sound of a cold in his usual measured frank decaying,
added, "the best you can do what you is to stay in good spirits,
and have breakfast with me, and then we will see what to do.

"

After these words, Mrs. Shelby stood by declaring that their businesses they prevented This morning
at breakfast to be present, and then after a mulatto of all externals
wohlgefälligem commissioned to come up at breakfast the gentlemen
left to the room.

"Old lady - may suffer their devoted servant not, not at all," said Haley, with some Effort
to adopt a familiar tone as possible.

"I'm not used to hearing my wife talk about in this way," said Mr.
Shelby dry.

"I beg your pardon, of course, only joking, - of course," said Haley, a laugh being enforced.

"It's
some jokes that are not pleasant gives," said Shelby.

"Damn it boldly since I signed the papers - the hell with it," growled Haley for themselves.
»All of distinguished since yesterday."

Never the case caused some sensation of a prime minister at court more than Tom's fate among his
companions on the estate.

It was the subject of conversation in every mouth and everywhere,
and in the field as the house was almost nothing but that the possible
consequences this event were discussed.

Finally wore Elisa's flight - an entirely unprecedented event on the estate - even help to
increase the general excitement.

The Black Sam, as he was commonly called, because his skin about three shade was darker than
his other brothers ebony-colored on the estate, considered the matter
from all sides and points of view with a sharpness of the sentence
and a concern for his own welfare, which would have the best patriots
in Washington made honor.

"An ill wind that blows here now - that 's course," Sam said with a mysterious air, while he
was busy, his trousers to go up higher, and in place of a demolished
button to attach a long nail.

'Yes,' tis an evil wind that blows, repeated he said. - "Here, Tom is down - of course, room for
another nigger 'naufzukommen - and why do not these niggers? Tom - rode into the country -
boots cleaned - passport in pocket - Very large as Kuffer - who but
he?

Well, why not Sam? - This is what I know want to. "

"Hello, Sam, - Sam! Master wants, 'Do Bill and Jerry start, "said Andy, Sam's soliloquy interrupting.

"Ho,
ho, what's going on now, boy," asked Sam.

"Haha you know, not - even - that Lizy sheared, with her baby?"

"You go to your grandmother," Sam said with ineffable contempt, 'knew it' nen pile earlier than
you, you stupid nigger! "

"Well, Master wants Bill and Jerry to be 'saddled and' putting the cart before, and you and I
to do with Master Haley go and look after her. "

"Well, that's the right time," said Sam. "S is necessary 'Sam, who
is present", - in such Time, and yes, he's the nigger.

See if I can not catch them now, see Master is what Sam can! "

"Eh, but Sam," said Andy, "You better think even 'time after, for
Missis do not want, they should caught, - Missis will drive you into
the wool.

"

"Oho," said Sam, his eyes open up wide. "How do you know?"

"Listen," they say - to myself - this morning when I brought water
master.

She sent see me after Lizy, why they did not come, they attract,
and when I told her that was it, she stood on grade 'and says:' The
Lord be praised, "and Master, he seemed very great, he said, 'woman,
talk like a fool <But anyway, it will bring him' rum! white already,
exactly how this will be - you say, 'tis always' s best to stand at
Missis, - Tell you!

"

The Black Sam scratched after this communication his woolly head,
which, if it contained but not very deep wisdom, but a large part
of that particular kind of wisdom possessed of the best in the vernacular
to express this: "He knew that on which Side the bread is smeared
with butter.

"

"Can not say a man's never - what will happen in = this = world," he said at last.

Sam spoke like a philosopher, a special emphasis on "this = =" legend,
as if he a broad knowledge of other worlds have, and therefore after
much deliberation that Conclusion was reached.

"Well, but, certainly, I would have said, Missis would sweep through the world after Lizy,"
Sam said thoughtfully added.

"And they would," said Andy, "but - can they not see through 'ne conductor, black Nigger? Missis
do not want them to have this master Haley Lizy's boy - that's it!

"

"Hoh," said Sam with an indescribable intonation, which can only be known to those who they have
heard among the Negroes.

"And I say you want more - and Everything," Andy said, "I think the
best you made Now the horses behind her, - very quickly to - for I
hear you ask for Missis, - Have been here long enough 'fooled around'.

Sam now started in all earnestness to get down to the business, and appeared after some Time
with Bill and Jerry in a short break in Gallop's path straight to the house, and by sent jumped,
before the horses were thinking of standing still, he brought them,
the same a hurricane just approached the side of the horse's post.

Haley's horse, which is a lively young colt was turned down, and reared up, and pulled violently
at the halter.

"Oho," said Sam, 'scared? are you? "and his black face shone with
a strange, wicked tickets.

"I want to fix you," he said.

In the square was a large book with wide shady branches, whose small, sharp, triangular nuts covered
the ground below. One of them holding between his fingers, Sam is approached the colt, stroked
and patted it, and apparently tried to unrest the same thirst.

Under the guise of wanting to mount the saddle, he pushed sent the
small, sharp nut underneath so that the least load on the saddle,
the feeling irritable the animal had to excite painful without causing
a visible bruise or wound.

"Here," he said, rolling his eyes with a smile approvingly, "I made it fixed."

At this moment Mrs. Shelby appeared on the balcony and waved to him. Sam approached with an equally
strong determination to make himself agreeable, as ever a candidate for a empty space at the Court
of St. James in Washington or that.

"Why hast thou driven around for so long, Sam? I'll let Andy by saying to be affected. "

"God help me, missis," said Sam, "not all horses can be caught in a moment, - were a good part
of the way down the pasture ran, and God knows where everything is. "

"Sam, how often must I tell you not to use the words:" God help and God knows, " and things like
that? It is sinful. "

"Oh God help me! I 's forgot, Missis! I will not say such things anymore. "

"Yes, but Sam just in this moment you have said it again."

"Did I? God! I mean - I did not want to say, missis. "

"You must give of yourself, Sam."

"Let me come just to breath, Missis, and I want to talk quite well, - I very Eight . Give '

"Well, Sam, you have to ride with Mr. Haley, and show him the way and help him. Take the horses good
care, Sam, you know, Jerry was a bit lame last week; = they do not
ride too fast =.

"

Mrs. Shelby spoke the last words in a low voice and with special
emphasis.

"Leave me alone," said Sam, rolling his eyes meaningfully.
"God knows! - Hey! - Did not say that's that, "he added, with a ludicrous
affectation of terror! the self Mrs. Shelby reluctantly compelled
to laugh. "Yes, Missis, I have the horses be careful. "

"Well, Andy,"
said Sam, when he returned to his station in the book, "You see, I
'd "be surprised at all if the Lord his beast 'make a sentence, should
afterwards, when he will rise. Know, Andy, animals do it, "and Andy
was in these words, in most meaningful way, a push into the page.

"Hey,"
said Andy, with an expression of momentary understanding. 

"Yes,
you see, Andy, Missis wants to gain time - that's clear - this looks
a blind man. I want to do something. See now you do all the horses
go there, let them all permiskus here at this as 'jumping around,
and' nunter because of the wood, and I think Master is so fast can
not endure. "

Andy grinned.

"You see," said Sam, 'you see, Andy,
if so what should' pass, like Masters unruly horse be - and reject
- because you and I go let s scorch our just to help him, before we
= help him do =, - oh, yes "And Sam and Andy laid their heads back,
and broke into a immoderate but suppressed laughter, and snapped his
fingers, and beat their Peck in unbounded delight.

At this moment,
Haley appeared on the veranda. Somewhat mollified by a number of cups
coffee's excellent, he came out smiling and schmalzend in pretty good
spirits. Sam and Andy grabbed some pieces of palm leaves, they were
used as their hats to look at, and rushed to the hitching posts to
help the "master."

Sam's palm-leaf was freed in a very ingenious
way of any type weave, and the grade up and down standing Nebenschößlinge
awarded throughout the head covering such a Appearance of freedom
and defiance, that she would be any of Fejee-chief have been worthy;
Andy while squeezing the crown of his head cover with a clever prints,
and so pleasing to look round, as if to say: "Who says I have no hat"

"Well,
boys," said Haley, "cheerful now, and we have no time to lose."

"Not
for a moment, Master," said Sam, by Haley the reins of his horse in
the hands was held and the stirrup, while Andy did release the other
two horses from the posts.

At the same moment, where Haley touched
the saddle, the animal raised in a fiery sudden leap from the earth,
and threw his master a few feet wide at the soft dry Lawn. Sam tried
a wild cries of a grip the reins, but reached more nothing except
that he mentioned previously, high upstanding palm leaf in the horse's
eye, met with what not to calm the excited nerves of the same contributed.
Wherefore by him with intense violence umrannte, two or three times
uttered a contemptuous snort, and strong beat his hoofs in the air,
chased to the lower end of the free space, while Bill and Jerry followed
him, which Andy, the agreement referred to, had not missed going on,
to make, and now drive with various furious exclamations to greater
haste. And Then followed a scene of the greatest confusion. Sam and
Andy ran and shouted, - dogs were barking here and there - and Mike,
Mose, Mandy, Fanny, and all the younger scions of the estate, female
and male sex were running, and beat his hands, whistled and shouted
with inordinate bustle and untiring zeal.

Haley's horse, a white,
volatile and fiery seemed, with great satisfaction to the mind enter
into the whole scene, and by his race course, an empty seat, nearly
a half-mile stretch in front of him was that on all sides is unbounded
in a Grove flattened gently, it seemed about to find particular pleasure
in his persecutors letting them come, and if they had approached him
to wide on a hand snorting and jumping to fly away, and far down to
gallop into the wrong track. Nothing was Sam's intention is less than
that of any one of the horses should be caught earlier, as he considered
timely, - and were the efforts he made truly heroic. Like the sword
# Coeur de Lion's #, which flared up ahead and always in the thick
of battle, Sam's palm-leaf was visible everywhere, if not the remotest
danger existed that the Horse could be caught, - he jumped in full
speed going on it, and cried on it "! it! catch it! catch it! "in
such a way that in a moment all to complete Confusion was set.

Haley
ran up and down now, and swore and cursed and stomped his foot alternately.
 They are still painting, and I suppose always will be. Whenever I say anything witty
they scream with laughter, and I believe that my name has become a household word in Whitechapel
or Wapping, or wherever the British workman lives? What am I to do?"

"Read them Jerome K. Jerome's last comic book," said Amarinth, "and they will go at once. I
find his works most useful. I always begin to quote from them when I wish to rid myself of a bore."

"But surely he is a very entertaining writer," said Lady Locke.

"My dear lady, if you read him you will find that he is the reverse of Beerbohm Tree as Hamlet.
Tree's Hamlet was funny without being vulgar. Jerome's writings are vulgar without being funny.
His books are like Academy pictures. You have to go twice over the bay, and the second Crossing
is very dangerous if the direction is not accurately known. I'm a hundred times ridden by,
and I know exactly all the phrases that I have to take. So you see, there's no good. Cudjoe
has the horses, about twelve clock, as still as possible tense, and I will take them over, and
then to give a semblance of the thing, he must get bring up to the next tavern, to the post after
Columbus can continue, drei und vier roughly between the clock gets there, and it then has the
appearance as if I would have taken the car only for the purpose. I will tomorrow morning in
good time in my his business, but I think I will not be much use after all the things spoken and
has been done, but the devil, I can not help it! "

"Your heart is better in this case, as your head, John," said his wife, their small white hand
in his legend. "If I had you ever have love you better if I do not would have known, as you yourself?
"And the little woman looked at these words so pretty, while tears in her eyes shone so bright
that the senator thought he must decidedly be an extraordinary person to such a pretty creature
into such a passionate admiration allow for him to, and what he could do in the circumstances other
than allowed to leave in order to check on the car. At the door he stopped but a moment to,
and then came back, saying falter

"Marie, I do not know what you think - but there's the chest full of things from - By -. Poor
our little Henry, "So saying, he turned quickly and shut the door behind.

The woman opened a lead for a small bedroom door, which in addition to the tight prove living
room was a light put on a Bureau located therein, and took a Key from a small box out, which
they thoughtfully in the lock of a below located drawer, shoved, and then stopped suddenly, while
two boys, who Children like their kicks were followed, were behind her and her mother silently
viewed with significant glances. And oh, mother, that you read this, is in your home never a
box or any containers have been the opening for you as the re-opening a small tomb was? O happy
mother that you've experienced this before.

Mrs. Bird opened the drawer slowly. There is little skirts were of different Form, shocks of
shirts and rows of small stockings, and from the folds of a paper even looked out a pair of small,
worn shoes with grated toes. A wooden horses and a wagon, a top and a ball were in them - all
in remembrance, with many tears and the bitter pain had been collected! She sat down down to
the box leaned her head in her hands, and wept until the tears by their Finger into the box
fell down and then suddenly raising herself, she began with anxious choose the simplest and
most durable parts and pieces to collect in a bundle.

"Mamma," said one boy, gently touching her arm, "are you going to give away these things?"

"My dear children," she said softly and earnestly, "if our dear little Henry of Heaven looks
down, he will be glad that we do Diess. My heart would never do can understand they give to an
ordinary person away, but I give her a mother their heart broken more and more sorrowful than
mine, and I hope God them his blessing will be with you!

"

There are in this world especially blessed souls are sprouting from their grief joys for others;
whose earthly hopes, when they were laid in the grave with many tears, the seed are healing flowers
and balm for the suffering and desolation.

And one of these the delicate woman who now sits with the lamp there, and fall from their eyes, slow
tears, as she collects the remembrance of her own lost child for the ejected homeless.

After a while, Mrs. Bird opened a wardrobe, took one or two simple, useful Clothes out, sat
down at their desks down with needle, scissors, and thimble, and
silently began the recommended her by her husband lawsuit of "leaving
out," and drove diligently so on, until the old clock in the corner
of the room struck twelve and a low Rattling of the wheels at the
door listening.

"Marie," said her husband, entering with the jacket on her arm, "You have to wake her up now; we must
go. "

Mrs. Bird quickly put the different items collected by it in a small valise, asked her husband
to let this get in the car and went to wake the woman. Soon after this appeared, wrapped in
a cloak, with hat and shawl, which all of their benefactress had heard in the door, carrying
her child in her arms. Mr. Bird and pushed into the car Mrs. Bird and followed her up to the kick
of it. Elisa leaned out and stretched her hand, a hand, so gentle and beautiful as that was,
which was passed as a reply. She fixed her large dark eyes with an indescribable expression on Mrs.
Bird's face and seemed to want to talk. Her lips moved, - a tried, twice, but no sound was heard,
and by finally only the sky was, never forgetting to an Look, she
sank back in her seat and covered her face.

The door closed and the Car went on.

Which location was this patriotic now a senator, the whole week before
the legislative had suggested the body of his native country, stricter
rules against fugitive slaves and to adopt their accomplices and accomplice!

Our

good senator was in his home state of any of his brothers in Washington Subject eloquence surpassed
those who had purchased these immortal fame! How proud he had been sitting there with their hands
in their pockets, while the sentimental Weakness ridiculed those relating to large state interests
above the welfare of some wretched refugees wanted to forget! He was bold as a lion in this case,
and "completely satisfied" of it, as anyone who heard him, but his idea of ​​a refugee was only an idea
of ​​what the letters that made up the word - or more than the Figure of any local paper, the image
was taken, which a man with a stick and bundles represented and was signed "the undersigned,
run away," The magical! Effect real misery, - the imploring human eye, the weak, trembling hand,
the desperate pleas for help, the helpless pain of death, - these had remained alien to him. He had
never thought that a refugee an unhappy mother, a defenseless child could be - to that which
is now the well-known of his small caps lost Henry wore, and as our poor senator neither stone nor steel,
but a man was, and to a noble-hearted, so must anyone see that he and his patriotism in an
evil Situation was. You need not exult over him, good brother of the South, because we have Get
hints, that some of you have acted in similar circumstances not otherwise would. We have reason
to believe that in Kentucky as well as in Mississippi noble, generous Heart beat, which never
made an account of human suffering was in vain is. So, good brother, it is fair that you expect
of us services which make your own brave honorable heart would not allow you to do if you were
in our place?

Be that as it may, if our good senator was a political sinner, he was on the best ways to do
this a nightly penance.

It had continued for some time Rainy weather prevailed and the soft, fertile soil of Ohio, as
everyone knows, the very particularly suitable for the manufacture of mud - and the way was also
a Ohio'scher Web path to the good old days.

"Oh please, what kind of way might this be?"

Ask any Eastern couple who lived is to link any other ideas with a railroad routes, as the flatness
and speed.

Know then, innocent eastern friend, that in the blessed regions of the West, find the feces of
sublime, unfathomable depth, built roads of round, raw logs be what you put tight and across each
other and then with earth, turf, or whatever may be at hand, throws - and this is called self-satisfied
the native one way, and immediately try to go there. Over time, of course, the rain washes grass
and earth off, and the logs are losing their original location and take all sorts of picturesque
positions on, up and down and across, with different depths and black mud tracks in between.

One such way was to pursue what our senator now stumbling, talking with moral considerations in such
a continuous manner employed, as circumstances allowed it, by the running of the car was similar
to the following: - bump! bump! bump! Splash! reflected in the Mud! - The senator, the wife and
the child change their seats so suddenly that without special preparation against the windows of
the side are.

The car is stuck, while Cudjoe very loud outside negotiated with the horses.

After repeated tightening and cracking of the reins, just at the moment when the senator all loses
his patience, rises suddenly the car in sheets - the two front wheels go down into another
abyss, and the senator, the wife and the child covered in colorful Mixture on the front seat,
- the senator's hat to him without any ceremony to above eye and nose pressed down, and he thinks
he's completely wiped out, the child cries, Cudjoe and holds out a very lively speech to the Horses,
the rage and beat and break under repeated flogging the traces. The car moves on to a new Arc,
- down go the hind wheels, - and senator, woman and child to fly back to the Back seat, while
the elbows touch the former Elisa's hat very rudely, and her two Feet are stuck in the hat
of the senator, who dated him during the collision Head has fallen. After a few moments, the
car has left the Morastloch, - the Senator finds his hat, the woman brings her own back in
order, and calms the Child, and all are preparing for a repeat.

For a time, mixes just the regular bump! bump! sake of variety, with some Side impact, and the
passengers begin to want to be lucky that their situation is not yet is so very bad: but at
last, with a violent blow that All in the level and are then thrown back in their seats with incredible
speed, keeps the car suddenly very quiet, and outside after a long
and very lively movement appears Cudjoe finally at the carriage door.

"Excuse me, sir, 'tis mighty dark in here, - do not know how we' get out of it; - Think we need
to create fresh tracks. "

The senator gets out of despair, as he gently with one foot a firm
ground, - submit descends one foot in a bottomless pit - he tried
it again pull out, but he loses balance and falls into the mud, from
which He is pulled by Cudjoe in a very sad state.

But we do out of compassion for our readers, we refrain from any further
description; enough It was late at night when the car finally covered
and dripping with mud, leaving the bay, and stopped at the door of
a large farm building.

It required no little patience and perseverance to arouse the sleeping Inwohner, but finally
seemed the honorable owner and opened the door there was a large, shaggy Orson of man, full six
feet and some inches tall, and dressed in a red woolen hunting shirts. A fairly heavy blanket
red hair, in a decidedly unkempt state, and a several-day-old beard, gave the man a glory, in
the mildest expression, not very them externally. He stood for several minutes, holding aloft
the light, silent there, and looked at our travelers with a dark, mysterious look that really funny
was. Our senator had some trouble making it perfectly clear to all Sachverhältniß; and while
the good man does his best to regard it properly, we want our readers
little closer to him make known.

The good old John Van Trompe was once a very important country and slave owners in the State
of Kentucky. Since he had to wear nothing but his own skin, and he of Nature is a great, great,
just had heart, which in the most correct relationship with his gigantic body stood up, he had
been long years of discontent with the effects one for the oppressors and the oppressed, observed
the same pernicious system. A Last day, John's began large, good heart to swell too much about
his bonds longer contribute to, and so he took his notebook out of his desk, and went across
to Ohio, and bought a quarter of a whole city area, rich country, made Release notes for all
of his slaves - men, women and children, packed them in Cars, and sent them away to settle down,
and then turned in honor of John Bay, and settled on a small isolated farm to get his consciousness
and look forward to his observations.

"Are you the man who wants to record a poor woman and a child, not
the slave captors to drop in your hands?

"the senator said with emphasis.

"Think so, that I am," replied honor John with the same emphasis.

"I thought so," said the Senator.

"If someone was to come," said the good man, his large, muscular figure righting, »= Na =, I will
receive him, had also seven sons, each six feet high, which for him
ready. Ordered him only my compliments, "added John," and he says
only, 's coming do not plan on how soon he would come - makes no difference,
"said John, by his shaggy hair, driving, and breaking out into loud
laughter. 

Matt, tired and broken, Elisa dragged to the door, while
her child in the solid Was asleep in her arms. "Does one assume
any special posture of body, or are one's convictions to be shown only in attitude of mind?"

"Oh, there is no difficulty," said Lord Reggie. "All one has to do is to abuse the Evangelical
party. Speak disrespectfully of the Bishop of Liverpool, and say that Father Staunton and the
Bishop of Lincoln are the only preachers of true doctrine in England. The Ritualists are very
easily pleased. They put their faith in preachers and in postures. If I were anything, I would
be a Roman Catholic."

"Should you like to confess all your sins?" asked Lady Locke, in some surprise.

"Immensely. There is nothing so interesting as telling a good man or woman how bad one has
been. It is intellectually fascinating. One of the greatest pleasures of having been what is
called wicked is, that one has so much to say to the good. Good people love hearing about sin.
Haven't you noticed that although the sinner takes no sort of interest in the saint, the saint
has always an uneasy curiosity about the doings of the sinner? It is a case of the County Council
and Zaeo's back over and over again."

"Yes, we love examining each other's backs," said Madame Valtesi.

Esmé Amarinth sighed musically and very loudly, and remarked--

"Faith is the most plural thing I know. The disaster in the nature of things - the contemplative Aryan is not inclined wegzudeuteln
- The contradiction at the heart of the world reveals itself to him as a jumble of different
Worlds, such as a divine and a human, each as an individual in law but is suffering as a single
addition of another for their individuation has. The heroic Impulse of the individual in general, in
the attempt over hinauszuschreiten the spell of individuation and a world of nature itself to do, he suffers
from is the hidden in the things Urwiderspruch say he is suffering and outrage. Thus, the Aryans
of the crime as a man of the The Semites sin understood as a woman, as is the Urfrevel from the
man, the original sin of Woman is being committed. Besides, says of the witches chorus:

    "We are not as accurate: With a
    thousand steps makes the woman; But as
    they rush to With one jump, makes
    the man. "

Those who understand those innermost core of the Prometheus saga - namely the titanic striving
Individual offered necessity of the violence - who must at the same time the Unapollinische this
pessimistic idea feel, for Apollo, the individuals will precisely by to bring peace, that he
draws border lines between them and that he think of that as the most sacred laws of the world
has a claim of self-knowledge and Maassen recalls. This, however at this Apollonian tendency not
to form the Egyptian rigidity and cold weather freeze up, is not governed by an effort of
the individual wave train her and her Area to prescribe the motion of the entire lake's only
heritage was destroyed, from time to time again the high tide of Dionysian all those little circle
in which the one-sided Apollonian sought "will" banish the Hellenism. Those sudden swelling flood
of the Dionysian then takes the several small peaks of the individuals on their backs, like the
brother of Prometheus, the Titan Atlas, the earth. This titanic urge to speak, the Atlas of all
Individuals to be and with wide back higher and higher, to carry on and on is the common factor
between the Promethean and the Dionysian. The Aeschylus Prometheus in this respect is a Dionysian
mask, while in that previously mentioned deep course for justice Aeschylus his paternal descent
from Apollo, the god of individuation and limits of justice, the discerning traitor. And so would
like the double nature of Aeschylus Prometheus, his both Apollonian and Dionysian in nature,
conceptual formula can be expressed as: "Everything existing is just and unjust, and in both
equal rights. "

This is your world! This means a world! -

10.

It is an incontestable tradition that Greek tragedy in its oldest Form only the suffering of Dionysus
was the subject and that the longer time passes only existing Buehnenheld Dionysus was given.
But can claim the same security will that has never to aufgehoert on Euripides Dionysus, the
tragic hero to be, but that all the famous figures of the Greek stage Prometheus, Oedipus,
etc. only screens that original heroes are Dionysus. That behind all these masks, a Divinity lies, that's
the essential reason for the often stared typical Idealitaet " those famous figures. It has, I do not
know who said that all the individuals as individuals comic-tragic and so are: What would be
apparent that the Greeks at all Individuals on the tragic stage could not bear. In fact, they seem
so experienced to have: how about all those Platonic distinction and Werthabschaetzung the "idea"
in Opposition to the "Idol", the image of deeply rooted in the Hellenic character content.
To us, however, to use the terminology of Plato, it would be of the tragic figures of the Hellenic
Stage to talk about this: the one truly real Dionysus appears in a multiplicity of forms, in the guise
of a warring heroes and as entangled in the power of individual will. Just like now speaks of
God appears and acts, he resembles an errant striving suffering individual: and that he at
all with this epic precision and clarity appears, the effect of the dream interpreter Apollo,
the chorus its Dionysian state indicated by those parable-like appearance. But the truth is that
the suffering hero Dionysus of the mysteries, that the sufferings of individuation itself experienced
God, from the wonderful myths tell how he had been dismembered by the Titans as a boy and now
revered as Zagreus in this state shall: is being indicated that this dismemberment, the truly
Dionysian suffering, like a transformation in air, water, earth and fire is that we so the state of
individuation as the source and foundation of all suffering, as something considered to be
reprehensible that Committee. From the smile of Dionysus are the Olympian gods, born from his
tears of the people. In that existence as dismembered God Dionysus has the dual nature of a cruel
savage daemon and a mild meek Ruler. The hope of the epopts but went to a rebirth of Dionysus, which we
now understand foreboding as the end of individuation have: the forthcoming third Dionysus was heard the
roaring cheers of the song epopts. And this is but hope it a beam of joy on the faces of the
torn and shattered into individuals of the world: as it depicts the myth of the eternal sadness
in sunken Demeter, who for the first Time and again, happy as you tell her she could give birth
to Dionysus again. In the arguments presented ideas we already have all the constituents of
a profound and pessimistic View of the world and simultaneously teaching the mysteries of the
tragedy together: the basic knowledge of the unity of all existing things, the consideration
of individuation as the first cause of Evil, art as the joyous hope that the spell to break the individuation
was when the idea of ​​a restored unity. -

It has been suggested earlier that the Homeric epic poetry of the Olympic culture is, with
which she sang her own song of victory over the horror of the titanic
struggle.

Now, under the overpowering influence of the tragic poetry to be the Homeric Myths of new umgeboren
and show in this metempsychosis, now that the Olympic Cultivation of a deeper view of the world
has been defeated. The defiant Titan Prometheus has announced its Olympic tormentor, that
once his reign, the highest Danger threatens, if he would not connect at the right time with him.
see In Aeschylus we are the covenants of the frightened Zeus before his end-banging with the Titans.
Thus, The former Titan era there after installation brought back from Tartarus into the light.
The philosophy the wild and naked nature looks voruebertanzenden the myths of the Homeric world with
the undisguised air of truth: they pale, they tremble before the lightning-like eye This goddess
- until the mighty fist of the Dionysian artist in the service of new deity forces. The Dionysian truth
takes over the whole area of ​​the myth as a symbolism of its findings and said it partly in
the public worship of the tragedy, partly in the secret inspections of dramatic mystery celebrations,
but always under the old mythical Huelle out. What force was this that freed Prometheus from
his vultures and the myth the vehicle of Dionysian wisdom transformed? This is the heraklesmaessige
Power of Music: which came as, in the tragedy to its highest manifestation, the myth with a new the
most profound importance to interpret Irishman knows, as we have this powerful than the fortune the
music had to characterize earlier. For it is the lot of every myth gradually crawl into a corner
of an allegedly historical reality and of any be discussed later time as a unique historical
claims to Factum with: and The Greeks were already completely in the way, all their mythical
childhood dream with ingenuity re stamped and arbitrariness in a historical-pragmatic youth history.
For this is the Way as to maintain die religions: namely if the conditions of a mythical Religion
under the strict eyes of a verstandesmaessigen rechtglaeubigen dogmatism be a ready amount
of historical events systematized and you start to Anxious to defend the credibility of the
myths, but against every natural survival and Further proliferation to the same notoriously to say
when the feeling for the myth dies out and in its place the claim of religion does historical
foundations. Those dying Myth took hold of the now-born genius of Dionysian music: and flourished
in his hand he once more, with colors as he has never shown a scent, a yearning Idea of ​​a
metaphysical world excited. After that last gleam coincide, its leaves are wilted, and soon catch
the mocking Luciane of antiquity to the fortgetragnen from all winds, bleached and devastated
flowers. The tragedy comes the myth to its lowest content, its most expressive form, once again
he does , as a wounded hero, and all the excess of power, wisdom, together with the full Rest of
the dying fire in his eye with last, mighty lights.

What you wanted, wanton Euripides, as you know this dying again to your service Froh force were
looking for? He died under your hands by force: and now you needed counterfeit, masked myth,
like the monkey of Hercules with the old splendor only nor did adorn. And how you died, the myth,
so you also died of the genius of the composer: Did you like with all gardens Accessing greedy
plunder of music, also broke along so you are only a counterfeit masked music. And because you
abandoned Dionysus, then left Apollo also up, from their camp to
hunt all the passions and banish them into your circle, Fine and cheap
for you to manage your heroes talk a sophistical dialectics - even
your heroes have only counterfeit masked passions and speak only counterfeit
masked Speeches.

11.

The Greek tragedy is different perished as of all the older sister Arts: it died by suicide,
as a result of an irreconcilable Conflict, so tragic while those are all faded to a great age
of the most beautiful and most peaceful death. If Namely, a happy state of nature is contemporary,
with a beautiful offspring and divorce without spasm of life, shows us the end of that older
art forms a such a lucky state of nature: they dive under slow, and before their dying eyes is already
stretched with her beautiful young and courageous gesture of the
head impatiently. arose with the death of Greek tragedy, however,
a vast, deeply felt everywhere Empty; as once Greek sailors at the
time of Tiberius on a lonely island of the piercing scream heard "the
great Pan is dead": it now sounded like a painful Plaint by the Hellenic
World: "The tragedy is dead The poetry itself is with her! lost!

Away, away with you stunted, emaciated imitators!

Continue to Hades so that their diseases could eat there at the crumbs of the former master once
had enough! "

But now finally blossomed a new art genre that its predecessor in tragedy and ladies champion,
was there with horror to realize that they, however, the aspects of their Mother bear, but the
same ones that had shown in her long death struggle. This agony the tragedy of Euripides fought,
those later as a new art form is reattische Comedy known. In it lived the degenerate form
of the continuing tragedy, the monuments of their most laborious and violent demise.

In this connection, the passionate affection is understandable that the poet the New Comedy to Euripides
felt, so that the wish of Philemon no further alienated might be the hang immediately, only
to go to Euripides in the underworld can be: if he could only be convinced at all that the deceased
also now was still sane.

If, however, very briefly and without claiming to something Exhaustive to say to describe that which
Euripides has in common with Menander and Philemon and what for those who worked so exciting exemplary:
it is enough to say that the audience of Euripides been brought to the stage is. Who has recognized
for what substances the Promethean Tragedians before Euripides their heroes formed and how far
they were intended to mask the true to bring the reality of the stage, which is also about
the completely different trend be aware of Euripides.

Man of the daily life came through him from the viewing spaces on the scene, the mirror in which
earlier only great and bold trains were expressed, Now that was embarrassing fidelity, which also failed
lines of nature faithfully reproduces. Odysseus, the typical luminosity of the older art declined,
now in the hands the more recent figure of the poet to Graeculus down the run from now as gutmuethigverschmitzter
Haussclave in the center of the drama's interest is. What Euripides in Aristophanes "Frogs" imputes to
the merit of the tragic art by means of his house their pompous obesity was free, which is
mainly due to his tragic hero . Feel In essence, the audience now saw and heard his double on the Euripidean
Stage and was pleased to understand that to speak so well. With this joy but it remained not:
they learned to speak even in Euripides, and of which he prided himself in competition with Aeschylus:
like him by now the people kunstmaessig and with the smartest Sophistication have learned to observe,
to negotiate and draw conclusions. By this change the public language he has ever made the new comedy possible.
Because of now it was no longer a secret, how and with which the sentences are commonplace represented
on stage. The bourgeois mediocrity, to which all Euripides his political hopes were built
up, speak out now, after so far in tragedy the demi-god, in the comedy of the drunken satyr
or half-human character of the language were determined. And that raises the Aristophanic Euripides
produced his prices, he have shown the general, well-known, everyday life and activities, about which a Each
judge was able to. Now, when philosophizing the whole mass, with unprecedented Prudence and
good land administration and manage their processes, so be it merit or the Success of the inoculated
him from the people of wisdom.
 It might have been invented by Izaac Walton.
It suggests a picture by George Morland. I love his canvases, rustics carousing----" She wondered about the strength inside themselves, to flow through it seemed,
for she felt the weight of your child as a spring, and each new rising Emotion of fear seemed
to increase the supernatural power that carried them away, while from her pale lips frequent
calls to a friend flowed in heaven, "God, help me! God, save me! "

If it = would = your Harry, mother, or your William, of crude to you tomorrow morning by a Slave
traders should be taken from - if you had seen the man and heard that the papers were signed
and delivered, and you had time only from midnight to the morning to accomplish your escape,
would be how quickly your steps = =? As many miles you would not in those few who can travel
short hours, with the favorite on your breast, - the small, tired hands of sleep on your shoulder,
and the delicate, soft Arms around your neck?

Because the boy was asleep. Initially it had received the novelty of the circumstances and the growing
restlessness; but his mother was so afraid the breath and every sound back, and had him so
firmly assured that if he was just silent, it would certainly save him, that he reassured her
Neck encircled, and already half asleep, only questions addressed to her.

"Mother, I do not need to stay awake, is not it?"

"No, my darling, sleep when you're tired."

"But, mother, when I'll fall asleep, but you do not admit that he
take me?"

"No, God help me," said the mother with paler and paler glow in their cheeks dark eye.

»= True = not, mother?"

»= True = not," the mother said with one voice, before they even startled,
because they seemed a spiritual being to come to her, had no part
in it, and the boy lowered his small, tired head on her shoulder,
and was soon asleep. As the contact This warm arms, the gentle touch
of his inspirations on her neck her movements new Life and fire seemed
to give! She felt as if for every touch, every Movement of the sleeping,
confiding child on her new power to electric currents she exhaled.

"I think the Bishops are beginning to understand Gregorian music a little better. No plover's
eggs, thank you," said Mr. Smith, who was totally without a sense of melody, but who assumed
a complete musical authority, based on the fact that he intoned in church.

"The Bishops never go on understanding anything," said Mr. Amarinth. "They conceal their intelligence,
if they have any, up their lawn sleeves. I once met a Bishop. It was at a garden party at Lambeth
Palace. He took me aside into a small shrubbery, and informed me that he was really a Buddhist. Man could
thus embodies the world just as much music as embodied will call it: it So it is understandable
why music every painting, even every scene of real life and the world can immediately stand
out in heightened significance, certainly more so each analog her tune the inner spirit of
the given phenomenon. Then it is based, that is a poem as a song, or a graphic representation
as a pantomime, or both as is inferior to opera music. Such individual images of human life,
the general Language of music to set, are never connected her with a continuous necessity
or accordingly, but they stand by it only in proportion of any sample to a general concept:
they provide the certainty of the reality The one is what the Music in general mere form says.
Because the melodies are to a certain extent, the same the general concepts, an abstraction
of reality. This namely, that the world of individual things, provides the intuitive, the particular
and individual, the individual case, both the general public of the terms, as to the universality
of the melodies, both generalities each other but opposite in some respects, by the terms, only
the very first forms abstracted from perception, as it were taken off the outer shell things mentioned,
that are actually quite abstract concepts, the music, however, the innermost of all design vorhergaengigen
core or the heart of things as yours. This ratio could be quite good express in the language
of the scholastics, by saying: the concepts are universals post rem, but the music gives the universals
ante rem, and the reality of the universals in re. That at all but a relationship between a
composition and a vivid Representation is possible, is based, as I said, that only the two very
different expressions the same inner essence of the world. When does the individual case, such
a relationship really exists, then, is the composer the voluntary movements that make up the
core of an incident the question in the general language of music has known: it is the melody of
the song, the music of the opera expressive. The analogy between those found by the composer but
both must be derived from the direct knowledge of the nature of the world, unaware of his reason, emerged
and must not, with conscious intentionality, imitation mediated by concepts be: otherwise the music
does not speak of the inner being, the will itself, but collected only insufficient after
his appearance, as all music does actually simulating "-.

We understand, then, immediately after the teaching of Schopenhauer, music as the language of
the will and feel our imaginations stimulated, those speaking to
us, invisible and yet so lively moving spirit world and make them
into an analog example embody us.

On the other hand image and is about to under the influence of a truly appropriate music, a enhanced
role. Two kinds of effects that is usually the Dionysian art on the Apollonian Kunstvermoegen
exercise: the music is irritating to the parable-like contemplation of the Dionysian General, the music
can then the parable-like picture in highest importance emerge. From these inaccessible to
come to an agreement and no deeper observation Facts I inferred the ability of the music, the myth
that the most significant examples to give birth and now the tragic myth: the myth of Dionysus
from the knowledge speaks in parables. On the phenomenon of the poet I have shown how the music
in Poet struggles after it, in Apollonian image of her being to give itself known: think Let us
now that the music in its highest growth also to a highest visualization come to look for, so
we must consider it possible that they are also the symbolic Expression for to find their true
Dionysian wisdom knew, and where else we will have to seek this expression, if not in tragedy
and generally in the concept of Tragic?

From the nature of art as they generally after the single category of appearance and Beauty
is conceived, is the tragedy does not derive in an honest manner, only in the spirit of the music
out, we mean a joy in the destruction of the individual. For the individual examples of such
destruction are only the eternal phenomenon the Dionysian art made
it clear that the will in its omnipotence, behind the principio of
individuation, eternal life beyond all appearances, and despite all
the destruction expresses.

The metaphysical joy in the tragic is a translation of the instinctive unconscious Dionysian
wisdom into the language of image: the hero, the highest phenomenon of will, is denied to
our pleasure, because he's only appearance yet, and the eternal life of the will is not affected
by its destruction. "We believe in eternal life," calls the Tragedy, the music during the immediate
idea of ​​this life. An entirely different Target has the art of sculptor: here Apollo overcomes
the suffering over the individual by the shining glory of the eternity of the phenomenon, here wins
the beauty about inhere to the life suffering, the pain is in some sense from the trains hinweggelogen
nature. In speaking of the Dionysian art and its tragic symbolism us the same nature with its true, undisguised
voice to: "Be as I am under the incessant! The ever-changing phenomena of the creative, eternal
life to compelling the appearance of change eternally satisfying first mother! "

17.

The Dionysian art wants to convince us of the eternal joy of existence: only to We seek this
pleasure is not in the phenomena, but behind appearances. We should see how everything is created
must, to the painful destruction to be ready, we are forced see inside the horror of individual existence
- and should not freeze it: a metaphysical consolation tears us momentarily out of the gear change of the figures.
We are really in short moments, the primordial essence itself and
feel its unbridled lust life existence and desire, and the struggle,
the torment, the destruction of the phenomena seems to us now as necessary,
due to the excess of countless Maass, in life's most pressing and
abutting Forms of existence, the exuberant fertility of the world-will,
we are of the furious sting of this torment at the same moment pierced,
where we were with the immeasurable Urlust in existence and where
we have become one and the indestructibility Eternity of pleasure
suspect in Dionysian ecstasy.

Despite fear and pity, we are the happy-living, not as individuals
but as a living, with its conception Lust We have merged.

The history of Greek tragedy tells us now with lucid precision, as the tragic art of the Greeks is really
born out of the Spirit of Music: through which we thought for the first time the origin and
meaning of such astonishing Choir believe to have been fair. At the same time we must admit that
the earlier established meaning of the tragic myth of the Greek poets, let the Greek Philosophers,
never in conceptual clarity has become transparent, and their heroes speak certain extent superficial
than they act, the myth refers to the spoken word not at all work fine Objectivation. The
microstructure of the scenes and the vivid Images reveal a deeper wisdom than the poet himself
put into words and concepts be: is the same as observed also in Shakespeare, whose Hamlet,
for example in a similar Smattered sense when he is so not out of the words, but from the in-depth
look at and look over the whole lesson to those previously mentioned Hamlet is clear. In reference
to the Greek tragedy that we meet but only as a spoken drama, has, I even suggested that those incongruity
between myth and word seduce us easily could to keep them for shallow
and meaningless, as it is, and therefore a superficial effect for
they assume when they had to the testimony of the ancients must have:
for how easily one forgets that what the word poet had not succeeded
in highest spirituality and Idealitaet reach of the myth, he as a
creative musician could succeed at any moment!

But certainly we have to the power of the musical Effectively reconstruct almost erudite way, something
of that incomparable consolation to receive, which must be the true tragedy of our own. Even
this musical supremacy but we be doing if we were Greeks, as such, have felt: while we in the
whole development of Greek music - as we know and trust, so infinitely richer opposite - only
the timid in Kraftgefuehle struck up the Juenglingslied musical genius to hear to believe. The Greeks,
as saying the Egyptian priests, the eternal children, and also in the tragic art only the children
who do not know what that raised toy has been developed in their hands, and - then had shattered
will.

That struggle of the spirit of the music to the visual and mythic revelation, which by the beginnings
of the poetry to the Attic tragedy is increasing breaks, suddenly, after just-won luxuriant development,
now and as it disappears from the surface Hellenic art: while the natives of this rings Dionysian
world view in the mystery lives on, not in the most wonderful metamorphosis and degeneration stops more
serious natures to attract Whether they are not considered in their mystical depth once again Art
will arise?

Here we are concerned the question whether the power of their counteracting the tragedy broke,
for all time has enough strength to the artistic revival of the tragedy and the to prevent the
tragic world view. If the old tragedy by the dialectical drive was urged to knowledge and the
optimism of science from their tracks, like they this fact in an eternal struggle between
the theoretical and the tragic world view close to, and only after the spirit of science has led
to its limits, and destroyed his claim to universal validity by demonstrating that limits likely
to be a rebirth of tragedy to hope: for what we cultivated forms Symbol of the music-driven Socrates,
in the sense discussed earlier would have to portray. For this comparison I mean by the spirit
of science in those first the person of Socrates have come to light belief in the exploration of
the nature and to the universal healing power of knowledge.

Who are the next episodes of this restless spirit of science vorwaertsdringenden recalls, will
realize immediately how the myth was destroyed by him and how this ideal of destroying the
poetry of their natural base, as one now homeless, was ousted. We have rightly attributed the
power of music, the myth to be able to give birth again off, we the spirit of science will
be well on the Railways have to look where he confronts this myth-creating power of music hostile.
This happens in the development not of the newer Attic dithyramb, whose music the inner essence,
the will expressed itself, but only seem inadequate, in mediated
by a tag imitation reproduced, from which inwardly degenerate music
the true musical nature turned away with the same reluctance to take
before kunstmoerderischen tendency of Socrates had.

The instinct of Aristophanes securely access has certainly captured the rights if Socrates himself,
the tragedies of Euripides and Music of the newer dithyrambs in the same feelings of hatred
and summarizing in all three phenomena, the characteristics of a degenerated culture scented. By
those newer dithyramb the music in the outrageous manner imitative Conterfei the phenomenon as
a Battle, made a lake tower and thus in their myth-creating power to utter robbed. Because if it seeks
to attract our Ergetzung only in that it forces us Outside analogies between processes of life
and nature and certain rhythmic to find figures and characteristic sounds of the music, if our
minds knowledge to meet these analogies, we are pulled in an atmosphere in one of the mythical
conceptions is impossible, because the myth will be a single Example of an infinite in general,
and staring into it's truth clearly seen be. The truly Dionysian music meets us as such a general
level of the world-will opposite: that ideological event, the breaks in this mirror, extends
immediately in our opinion the image of an eternal truth.

Conversely, such a vivid Event by the tone-painting of the newer dithyramb once stripped of
every mythical character; now is the music for the poor image of the phenomenon, and therefore
become infinitely poorer than the phenomenon itself: by what they poverty for our perception
of the phenomenon even further reduced it, so now as a battle, such musically imitated in Marschlaerm,
Signalklaengen so exhausted, and our imagination in precisely this superficiality is being
held. The tone-painting is thus in every respect to the counterpart of the myth-creating True
power of music: it will increase the appearance even poorer than it is, while by the Dionysian
music the individual phenomenon into a worldwide image of enriched and expanded. It was a
powerful victory of undionysischen mind when, in the development of newer Dithyramb, the music
itself alienated and pressed down to the slave Release had. Euripides, who are named in a higher
sense a thoroughly unmusical nature need is for this very reason, passionate supporters of the newer
music dithyrambic and used with the generosity of a robber all their Effectstuecke and manners.


"I think not," he answered, putting down her cup with an elaborate serenity. "One must perpetually
doubt to be faithful. Perplexity and mistrust fan affection into passion, and so bring about
those beautiful tragedies that alone make life worth living. Women once felt this while men
did not, and so women once ruled the world. But men are awakening from their mental slumber,
and are becoming incomprehensible. Lord Reggie is an instance of what I mean. The average person
finds him exquisitely difficult to comprehend. He fascinates by being sedulously unexpected.
Listen to his anthem. He is beginning to play it. How unexpected it is. It always does what
the ear wants, and all modern music does what the ear does not want. Therefore the ear always
expects to be disappointed, and Lord Reggie astonishes it by never disappointing it." For this same reason, the innermost core of the Nature
that indescribable pleasure in the naive artist and the naive art, the gleichlfalls only "sham of appearance"
is. Rafael, himself one of those immortal "naive" to us in a parable-like paintings that Depotenziren
of appearances for appearances of the Urprozess naïve artist and Apollonian culture represented
at the same time. In his Transfiguration shows us the bottom half, with the possessed boy, the
despairing bearers, the helpless frightened disciples, the reflection of the eternal primal pain,
the only reason the World of "Schein" is a reflection of eternal contradiction, the father of
things. For this Certificate is now rising like a ambrosial scent up a vision same new world of
illusion, of the view that the first appearance partial to anything - a brilliant float in pure
bliss and pain-free, non-radiating from wide-eyed look at. Here, in the highest art symbolism
those Apollonian beauty world and its substrate, the terrible wisdom of Silenus, before our eyes and
understand, through intuition, their mutual necessity Apollo but we shall meet again as the
apotheosis of the principium of individuation, in the only ever reached the goal of the original
one, its redemption through appearances, the situation is: He shows us with lofty gestures,
like the whole world of torment is necessary, so that through Some of them will be urged to produce
the redeeming vision and then, in watching same absorbed, quietly swaying on his canoe, sit
in the middle of the sea.

This deification of individuation knows if she ever imperative and regulations critical thinking is
only a law, the individual, ie the compliance with the limits of the individual, the measure in the
Hellenic sense. Apollo, as an ethical deity calls from his family, the Measure and in order
to be able to keep it self-knowledge. And that runs next to the aesthetic Necessity of the beauty
of the claim of "Know thyself" and "Not too much!" ago, while self-arrogance and over-measure
as the really hostile daemons of non-Apollonian sphere, therefore, as properties of the pre-Apollonian
period, the Titan era and the non-Apollonian world ie the world were considered barbarians. Because of
its titanic Love for mankind Prometheus had to be torn apart by the vultures, its excessive Half wisdom,
which solved the riddle of the sphinx, Oedipus had in a confusing swirl overthrow of misdeeds:
so interpretirte the Delphic god, the Greek past.

"Titanic" and "barbaric" seemed to the Apollonian Greeks the effect that the Dionysian excited:
to be able to conceal himself without that, if it but at the same time used internally with
those titans and heroes was toppled. Yes, he had to feel even more: his whole life with all the beauty
and moderation rested on a veiled subsoil of suffering and the knowledge that he was once again
exposed by that Dionysian. And see! Apollo could not live without Dionysus! The "Titanic" and
the "Barbarian" was recently a similar necessity as the Apollonian! And now we think, as in
them on the bill and the restraint built and artificially insulated world of ecstatic Magic
sound of the ways in Dionysusfeier always attract into their sound, as in all these Maass about
the nature in pleasure, pain and knowledge, to the piercing cry was heard: we think that this
demonic folk song compared to the artist psalmodirende of Apollo, could mean the ghostly sound
of harp,! The muses of the arts "Certificate" faded before an art that spoke the truth in their
intoxication, the wisdom of Silenus cried woe! Woe! against the serene Olympians. The individual,
with all its Boundaries and Maassen was here in the oblivion of the Dionysian states under and
forgot the Apollonian statutes. The superiority measure revealed itself as truth, the opposition,
The bliss born of pain out of himself spoke from the heart of nature. And so, everywhere where
the Dionysian prevailed, the Apollonian removed and destroyed. But just as surely, is that where the first
assault was withstood, the authority and Majesty of the Delphic god rigid and threatening than
ever, voiced. I can namely the Doric state and Doric art only me as a continued war camp of the
Apollonian to explain: only in a ceaseless reluctance against the Titanic-barbaric essence
the Dionysian could such a defiantly brittle, with bastions enclosed art, so kriegsgemaesse education
and forth, so cruel and ruthless state nature of longer his life.

Up to this point further is executed, which I at the entrance of this paper remarked how the
Dionysian and the Apollonian in new successive births, and have had each mastered enhancing the Hellenic
nature: like a "brazen"

Age, with its Titanenkaempfen and its harsh popular philosophy, under the sway of Apollonian beauty
shoot the Homeric world developed, how this "naive" glory swallowed up again by the invading stream
of Dionysian is, and how this new Power compared to the Apollonian to the rigid majesty of Doric
art and world view rises. If in this way the older Hellenic history, the struggle of those two
hostile Principles, divided into four major stages of art: we are now urged to continue to to ask the
final plan of this becoming and bustle, if not the last we reached Period, the Doric art than
the tip and intention should be that art drives: and here gives our eyes the lofty and highly praised
work of art of the Attic Tragedy and the dramatic dithyramb, as the common goal of both impulses,
that mysterious Ehebuendniss, after much previous conflict, in such a child - at the same
time Antigone and Cassandra is - has glorified.

5.

We are now close to the actual objectives of our investigation based on the knowledge of Dionysian-Apollonian
genius and his art work, at least on the foreboding understanding
mystery of that unity is addressed.

We now ask, first, where that new seed is first in the Hellenic world
felt, which subsequently up to the tragedy and dramatic dithyramb
developed.

About This gives us the image of antiquity itself digestion, if it is considered the founding
fathers and torch-bearer of Greek poetry Homer and Archilochus on sculptures, gems, etc together, is
safe in the sense that only these Two completely identical original natures, from which a stream
of fire to the whole Greece Posterity may flow away, had to consider. Homer, the self-absorbed
in aged dreamer, Type of the Apollonian, naive artist sees, now the passionate wonder Head driven
by the wild life warrior's Muse Archilochus servant: and the more recent Aesthetics knew was
pointing to add that here the "objective" artist, the first "Subjective" is set contrary. We are
little served by this interpretation, because we subjective artist known only as artists and bad in
every kind and the amount of art first and above all the defeat of the subjective, redemption
from the "I" and disclose any individual will and Geluestens demand, even without objectivity,
without pure disinterested View can never truly believe in the slightest artistic creation.
Why must our aesthetics only solve that problem, as the "poet" as an artist possible: he who,
after the experience of all time, always says "I" and the whole chromatic scale its passions
and desires absingt before us. This very frightened Archilochus us, next to Homer, by the cry
of hate and scorn, through the drunken eruptions his desire, he is the first artist called subjective,
not that the real Nichtkuenstler? But then, whence the worship to him, the poet, especially the
Delphic Oracle has proven, the hearth of the "objective" art, in a very strange sayings?

About the process of his poetry to us by Schiller himself unexplainable, but not cause concern
translucent light on psychological observation, and he admits namely as the preparatory state
before the actus of poetry rather than a series of images, An ordered Causalitaet of thought,
the right to have and had in itself, but rather a musical mood ("The feeling is with me at first
without specific and clear Subject, this is only formed later. A certain musical disposition is
advance, and this follows with me until the poetic idea ").

Let us now the most important Phenomenon throughout the ancient poetry added that everywhere
considered natural association yes identity of the poet and the musician - the opposite our
recent poetry like a Goetterbild without head appears - we can now, because our aesthetic earlier
shown Metaphysics, we explain in the following manner to the poet. He is first, as a Dionysian
artist, completely with the original one, its pain and contradiction, made one, and produces
the An image of this original as music, if indeed it with a repeat of the legal world and A
second casting of the same has been mentioned, but now this is music to him again as visible in
a dream-like allegorical picture, under the influence of Apollonian dream. That image and non-conceptual
reflection of the primal pain in music, with its salvation in the notes, now produces a second reflection,
a single simile or example. His subjectivity the artist has given up in the Dionysian process: the
image that it's now Unity with the heart of the world shows, is a dream scene that those Urwiderspruch
and primal pain, together with the Urlust of appearance, sensualizes. The "I" of the poet dyes
his words from the abyss of being: his "subjectivity" in the sense of modern aesthetics is an
illusion. If Archilochus, the first poet of the Greeks, his raging love and also his contempt
the daughters of Lykambes kundgiebt, it is not his passion, in front of us orgiastic Dancing
frenzy: we see Dionysus and the Maenads, we see the drunken swarms Archilochus sunk to sleep - as
Euripides in the Bacchae it to us, describes the sleep on high alpine pasture, in the midday sun:
- and now Apollo comes up to him and touched him with the bay. The Dionysian musical enchantment
of the sleeper now, as it sprayed Images sparks around, lyrical poems, which in its highest unfolding
tragedies and dramatic Dithyrambs hot.

The sculptor and also the kindred epic is absorbed in the pure viewing the pictures. The Dionysian
musician is completely without any image itself only primal pain and Urwiederklang of it. The lyrical
genius feels the mystic self-renunciation and unified state an image and likeness of the world grow
out, a very different coloration, and Causalitaet Speed ​​than that world of the sculptor and
epic. During the latter in this Images and only in them lives with joyful contentment and not
tired, is it up to the smallest Trains to look back fondly, while even the image of the angry Achilles
him just a picture, whose angry expression he enjoys with that dream joy of coupons - so that he, by
this level of the certificate against the oneness and fusion with
its forms is protected - so, however, are the images of the poet nothing
Himself and as only different Objectivation from him why he as a moving
center that world, "I" can say only this ego is not the same as that
of the waking, empirically- real people, but the only truly existent
and eternal at all, basically the things resting selfhood through
their images through the lyrical genius sees up to that bottom of
things.

Now we think we even know how he sees himself in these images even as a non-genius ie be "subject",
the whole thick of subjective, to a certain, his real duenkendes Ding directed passions and
volitions, and if it now seems as if the lyric Genius and its related non-genius, and one would be
as if the former is of itself that little word "I" spoke, so now we can no longer seduce this
appearance, However, as he seduces those who described the poet as the subjective poet have. In
truth, Archilochus, who broke out passionately loving and hating man just a vision of the genius that
is already no longer Archilochus, but world and Genius the primal pain in his parables of
the people that Archilochus pronounce symbolic: while that subjectively willing and desiring
man Archilochus at all never ever poet can be. But it is not necessary that the poet now only
the phenomenon of man Archilochus sees before him as a reflection of eternal being, and demonstrates
the tragedy, as far the world vision of the poet from that, however, remove standing next phenomenon
can.

Schopenhauer, the difficulty of the poet for the philosophical contemplation of art has, makes no bones
believed to have found a way that I do not go with him can, while he alone in his profound metaphysics
of music, the appropriation of the hand given was that the difficulty could be eliminated crucial:
as I have, in his mind and in his honor, to have done here believe. However, he referred to as
the peculiar nature of the song the following (World as Will and Representation I, p. 295): "It
is the subject of the will, ie one's own will, what the consciousness of the Singing Make up,
often as a liberated, satisfied willing (joy), but probably more often than a Inhibition (mourning),
more than emotion, passion, agitated state of mind. In addition to this However, while it is the
sight of the surrounding nature of the singing of his consciously as Subjects of the pure,
will-less knowing, whose unshakeable, blissful sleep now occurs in contrast with the impulse of the
ever-constrained, still poor volition: the sensation of contrasts, this game is actually changing
what is on the whole the song expresses, and what actually is the lyrical state. as it occurs in
this the pure knowledge to approach us to redeem us from the will and his impulse: we follow;
but only for a moment: again and again rescues the will, the memory of our personal Purpose of us quiet
contemplation, but also time and again we want to elicit the next
beautiful environment, which presents itself to the pure will-less
knowledge of us.

Comes in the song and the lyrical mood of the willing (the personal interest of the purpose) and the
pure contemplation of the environment present itself miraculously mixed with each other: there
are looking for relations between the two and imaginirt, the subjective mood, the affection of
the Willing informs given sight environment and in turn that their color in reflection: of
all this such a mixed and divided state of mind the genuine impression of the song is. "

Who could fail to recognize in this description that the lyrics here as an imperfect reached,
as it jumps in and rarely coming to the goal of art is characterized, even than a half of art
whose nature should be that the will and pure contemplation that is, the ugly and the wondrously
mixed aesthetic state were confused? We argue instead that the entire opposition, in the like
after a measure of value also Schopenhauer the arts one heals at all of the subjective and the
Objectives, in aesthetics is indecent because the subject, the willing and his selfish purposes
promoting individual only as an opponent, can not be thought of as the origin of art. In this
respect, But the subject is an artist, it is redeemed already by his individual will and medium, as
it has become, through which one truly is his salvation Subject certificates in celebrating.
For this we must, above all, to our humiliation and exaltation, clearly be that the whole Kunstkomoedie
certainly not for us, about our improvement and education motion, will be executed, so that we
no more the real creator of that art world are: but we allowed ourselves to accept that we are
the same for the true Creator have pictures and artistic projections are in and our of the
importance of works of art highest dignity - for only as an aesthetic phenomenon is the existence
and the world forever justified - while of course our awareness about these important our little
one else than it is painted on canvas warriors from the battle represented on it have. Thus,
our entire knowledge of art is basically a completely illusory, because
we as Knowing that being with not one and the same are located, as
the sole creator and Audience that Kunstkomoedie, an eternal satisfaction
for.

Only if the genius in the Actus the artistic conception of the world merges with that Urkuenstler,
he knows something about the eternal nature of art, for in that state he is a wonderful way,
the uncanny Image of the same tale, the swirl and the eyes and gaze itself can, and now he is
both subject and object, both poets, actors and spectators.

6.

In regard of Archilochus, the scholarly research discovered that the folk song in which he Literature
have been executed and that he, That this half, only those position next Homer, come in the
general estimation of the Greeks. But what is the folk song in contrast to the completely Apollonian
epic poem?


"How exquisite rose-coloured youth is," Amarinth said softly to Mrs. Windsor, as Lord Reggie
ranged the little boys before him, and prepared to strike a chord upon the piano. "There is
nothing in the world worth having except youth, youth with its perfect sins, sins with the
dew upon them like red roses--youth with its purple passions and its wild and wonderful tears.
The world worships youth, for the world is very old and grey and weary, and the world is becoming
very respectable, like a man who is too decrepit to sin. Ah, dear friend, let us sin while
we may, for the time will come when we shall be able to sin no more. Why, why do the young
neglect their passionate pulsating opportunities?" That would be something for you!

"

"It would obviously be a very unpleasant duty for me," began Mr. Bird in a moderate Tone.

"Duty, John! not use that expression! You know it is not compulsory, it can not his duty! If
people do not run away that their slaves, they may treat them well, - That's my view. If I had
slaves (which, I hope will never happen), so I would probably see if they would run away from
me or you, John. I tell you, they run not like this when they are happy, and if they escape, -
the poor things! - So have it enough to endure cold, hunger and fear,
even if not hostile to anyone be treated and followed up; law or not,
I will do it never, so help me God!

"

"Marie! Marie! My love, let me argue with you for reasons, "said Mr. Bird.

"I'm arguing that for reasons that John, hate - especially on such
subjects.

Your Politicians have a way to twist a simple matter entirely correct, and if it is to act comes,
so you believe yourself not turn. I know you too well, John, you think it no more for right
as I do - and you'd do it any more than I ".

At this critical moment is the old Cudjoe, the only black servant of the house, his head in
the door and asked, "that Missis would come into the kitchen," and
our senator, rather relieved of his little woman looked with a strange
mixture of pleasure and anger after, and then sat in the armchair
and began to read the newspapers.

A few moments later was the voice of his wife in a hurried, eager tone the door is: - "John! John!
Please, come here a moment! "

Mr. Bird put the papers aside and went to the kitchen, where he was frightened at the sight, who offered
him. A young, slim-built woman, with torn and frozen Clothes, wearing only one shoe, while another
of the wounded and bleeding The foot of the sock was torn down, was in a death-like swoon in two Chairs
lying. The expression of the despised race on her face, but each Bystanders involuntarily felt
the touching, sad beauty of it, while the stone Sharpness, the cold, stiff, dead like a solemn
sight of any rain poured.

Mr. Bird held his breath and stood there in silence. His wife and their only colored servant,
the old Aunt Dinah, were eager to bring a revitalizing agent for use, while old Cudjoe the boy on
his lap, held him, took off his shoes and socks and tried to warm the cold little feet.

"Well sure, if it be not to see a terrible sight," said the old Dinah
pity!; "'S seems she has fainted from the heat.

She was quite cheerful as she came in, could and asked if they were here a little heat, and I just
wanted to ask where she came forth, as they gradezu fainting fell. Has never done a lot of
hard work, suppose for her hands. "

"Poor creature!"

Mrs. Bird said sympathetically, while the woman slow her large, black Opened his eyes and looked
around mindlessly.

Suddenly drove a train through painful her face and she jumped up, saying: O my Harry! Did
she love him? "

The boy, upon hearing this, jumped from Cudjoe's knee, and ran to
her side by his arms stretched up to her. "Oh, there he is! as it
is, "she said.

"Oh, ma'am," she continued, in wild excitement, "I
ask you to protect us! let they take it to me! "

is "No one here
cause you any harm, poor woman," said Mrs. Bird, her courage inspiring.
"You're safe here, fear not."

"God bless you," said the woman, sobbing
and covering her face, while the boy, when he saw his mother cry,
tried to climb onto her lap. Why must we stand up to live, and lie down to die? Byron had
a club foot in his mind, and so Byron is a by-word. 

The strongest terms but for those new and unheard Hochschaetzung of knowledge and insight Socrates
said, as he found himself as the only ones who admit to know nothing; while he, on his critical
walk through Athens, in the biggest statesmen, Speakers, poets and artists auditioning everywhere
encountered the imagination of knowledge. With amazement, he realized that all those celebrities
themselves about their profession without proper and safe access and the same are driven only
from instinct. "Only from instinct": with this expression, we touch the heart and center of
the Socratic tendency. condemned with him Socratic just as the existing art and the existing ethics:
where he tested his Gaze is directed, he concludes that the lack of insight and the power of illusion
and excludes this deficiency on the inner perversity and wickedness of the existing. From
this a score of Socrates believed the existence corrigieren have to: he, the individual who enters
with an air of contempt and superiority, as the harbinger of a very different kind culture,
art and morality, into a world, to catch the tip with respect we would expect the greatest
happiness.

This is a tremendous concern, to us every time, take the light of Socrates, and incites us over
and over again, meaning and intent of these questionable Release of antiquity recognized. Who is
this that should dare, as an individual, the Greek to deny being, as Homer, Pindar and Aeschylus,
as Phidias, as Pericles, as Pythia and Dionysus, certainly than the deepest abyss and the highest
altitude of our astonished adoration is? What demonic force is to pour this magic potion in the
dust itself may presume? Which Half God is the noblest of the spirits' call to humanity ! Be:
"Alas you have destroyed it, the beautiful world, with a mighty fist, they come crashing down, it
breaks down! "

A key to the essence of Socrates gives us that wonderful phenomenon, as is called "Daemonion
of Socrates." In special situations, in which his enormous intellect fell into the wavering, he
won a firm indication by expressing itself in such moments divine voice. This voice reminds us when
it comes, is removed. The instinctive wisdom shows at this totally abnormal nature only to the
conscious recognition here and there hindrance counter. While in all productive people but the
Instinct just the creative-affirmative Force and critical awareness and warning notices, masquerading: Socrates
is at the Instinct for critics to raise awareness to the Creator - a true monstrosity by defectum!
And while we here are making a monstrous defectus every mystical system, so that Socrates be
described as the mystic would be non-specifically, in the nature is a logical Superfetation's just
developed so excessively as in the mystic those instinctive wisdom. On the other hand but it
was denied that appears in Socrates logical drives completely, against itself to reverse itself, in which
unfettered Dahinstroemen he is a force of nature, as we find only the very greatest instinctive
forces, to our surprise, horrible. If you just a touch of that divine naivete and security of
the Socratic life direction got the feeling from the Platonic writings, which also feels like the
immense drive wheel of the Socratic logic, behind Socrates is in motion, and as shown by Socrates
viewed as a shadow passes must be.
 Yet 'not at home'
is always the answer."

Lady Locke looked at him with a distaste that she could scarcely conceal.

"You are very amusing," she said bluntly. "But you are not very satisfactory. I wonder if you
have a philosophy of life?"

"I have," he said, "a beautiful one."

"What is it?"

"Take everything--and nothing seriously. And in your career of deception always, if possible,
include yourself among those whom you deceive."

"Esmé! Esmé!" cried Lord Reggie's petulant boyish voice. "Where are you? We have finished the
practice, and Mrs. Windsor wants us to come in to supper. Oh! here you are. Lady Locke, the
boys say they like my anthem. Jimmy thinks it is beautiful. Isn't he a dear boy?"

"Does he include himself among those whom he deceives?" she thought, as they walked towards
the house. A man who as here the ear as it were at the heart chamber the
world-will has died down, the frantic desire to exist as the thundering power, or as delicate
atomized stream from here in every vein of the world pour feels he should not break suddenly? He
should take it, in the wretched glass skin of the human Individual, the play sound of countless pleasure
- and woes of the "wide in the world by night" to hear without this pastoral dance of the metaphysics
of his homeland unstoppable ? Zuzufluechten But if such a work can be perceives as a whole,
without denial of individual existence, if such a creation could be created without their Creator
crush - where do we get the solution of such an objection?

Here is pushing between our highest musical excitement and music of those tragic myth and the
tragic hero, basically as a parable of the most universal of all the facts of which alone can
convince the music on direct routes. As a parable would now but the myth, if we as purely Dionysian
beings empfaenden, completely ineffective and ignored next us to stop, and make us turn away
for a moment like this, our ears the sound again to offer the universals ante rem. Here, however,
breaks the Apollonian force to restore the almost shattered individual addressed, with the healing balm
of blissful deception out: suddenly, we believe you see only Tristan, motionless as dull and
asks, "the old way, what she wakes me up?" And what we used to be a hollow sigh from the middle
point of being anmuthete, that is saying to us now only as "sad and empty the sea." And where
we imagined to expire breathless, in the convulsive Sichausrecken all feelings, and only a few things
to us with this existence zusammenknuepfte, hear and see, we now only the wounded to death
and yet not dying hero, with his desperate cries "Longing! Tendons! In dying yearn, not to die
of desire!" And if earlier the cheers of the horn Following any such measure and such superior
numbers consuming pain almost as the torment us the highest heart cut, so now stands between
us and this "jubilation in itself, "the jubilant Kurwenal, the ship, which carries Isolde,
faces. So great also pity into us engages in a certain sense, but to save us from the compassion
the Urleiden the world, as the parable image of the myth we are on the brink Watch the highest
world-idea, as the thought and the word ungedaemmten us from the outpouring of the unconscious
Willing saves. By that glorious Apollonian deception it seems to us as if our own the clay-rich
as compared to a plastic world would replace, as if in her only Tristan's and Isolde's destiny, as in
a most delicate and ausdrucksfaehigsten substances, formed and had been pronounced visually.

So
we snatched the Apollonian and the Dionysian universality delighted us for the Individuals, it
attracts our sympathy at this excitement, this is satisfied by the after great and sublime
forms parched beauty sense, it leads us past life images and stimulates
us to gedankenhaftem detecting the life they contain core.

With the tremendous Balancing of the image of the concept of the ethical doctrine of sympathetic
tears, the excitement Apollonian man from his orgiastic self-destruction up and fooling him
about the universality of the Dionysian process of time to the delusion that he is a single World,
such as Tristan and Isolde see, and to the music, only better and more internal should see. What can
not the healer magic of Apollo, when he himself to us in the can upset deception, as if really
the Dionysian, the Apollonian in the service, the effects would be able to increase, even as
if the music becomes essentially performance art for Content is an Apollonian?

In those pre-established harmony that prevails between the ages of drama and his music, The
drama reached a highest of the word drama otherwise inaccessible level of manageable. Like all
living figures of the scene in the self-moving melody lines are for greatly simplify the curved
line in front of us, we hear the juxtaposition of these Lines in
the moving processes with the most delicate way to sympathize change
of harmony: through which the relations of things in us of sensible,
not abstract Example, be immediately perceptible, as we also know
through him that only in these relations, the essence of a character
and a melody line is purely obvious.

And while the music compels us as more and more internal to see than usual, and the process spread
like a soft cocoon of the scene before us is for our spiritualized, into the Inner-sighted eye the
world stage just as infinite as extended from the inside out enlightened. What could the word
poet offer analogous to that with a much less perfect Mechanism by indirect means, by word and
the concept of, those internal extension to achieve the straightforward Buehnenwelt and their
inner struggles to enlightenment? Is now Although the musical word to the tragedy, they can
at the same time the ground and next are the Geburtsstaette of the word and we become that
of the word, from the inside out, . Clarify

But this process would be described but just to say so determined that he was only a beautiful
appearance, namely those previously mentioned Apollonian deception is, by its Effect, we are
relieved of the Dionysian crowd and over-proportion to. Basically so the relation of music to drama
is just the opposite: the music is the real Idea of ​​the world, the drama only a reflection
of this idea, an isolated shadow image of the same. Those identity between the melody line
and the living form, between the harmony and the character relationships that form is true in
an opposite sense, as it us, watching the musical tragedy seem, would like. We like the shape of
us The most visible move to revive, and shed light from within, it
remains only the appearance, of which there is no bridge, in the true
reality, into the heart of Led world.

From this heart out but the music speaks, and countless appearances that Art should vorueberziehn
to the same music, they would never be the same being depleted, but only their images to be
externalized. With the popular and entirely false Opposition between soul and body is of course
difficult for the relationship between music and Drama to explain anything and confuse all but the
rawness of that opposition unphilosophical just seems with our aesthetic, who knows why they happened,
like a well-known become articles of faith to be, while holding it over a contrast of appearance
and Thing to have learned nothing, or, also from unknown reasons, nothing to learn liked.

Should it have resulted from our analysis that the Apollonian in tragedy by his deception completely
carried away the victory over the Dionysian primal element of the music and this to their
intentions, namely to illustrate the highest drama, usable have made, it would certainly add
a very important caveat: in the most essential Points that Apollonian deception is broken and destroyed.
The drama that internally in such enlightened clarity of all movements and figures, with the help
of music, in front of us propagates as if we, the fabric on a loom in on - and emerge to see
low-twitching - achieved as a whole, an effect that is beyond Apollonian artistic effects. In the general
effect of tragedy the Dionysian regains the upper hand, they closed with a clang, that never could
resound from the realm of Apollonian art forth. And it turns out the Apollonian deception for
what it is, than during the period of tragedy continued Umschleierung the actual Dionysian
effect: that is so powerful but, at the Finally, the Apollonian drama
itself for penetrating into a sphere, find it with Dionysian wisdom
talk begins and where it itself and its Apollonian visibility denied.

It would really the difficult conditions of the Apollonian and Dionysian in tragedy to symbolize
a brotherhood of both divinities: Dionysus speaks the language of Apollo, Apollo but finally
the language of Dionysus: thus the highest goal of tragedy and the art is achieved at all.

22.

Let the attentive friend, the effect of a true musical tragedy, pure and unmixed, mind about his experiences.
I think the phenomenon of this effect in both sides have described so that he is his own experience know
how to interpret now is. He will be remembered not thinking of how he, with a view to him before
moving myth a kind of omniscience is increased felt as if now the sight of his eyes not only
was Flaechenkraft, but to penetrate into the interior virtue, and as if he Flashes of the
will, the conflict of motives, the rising power of the passions, now, With the aid of music,
almost sensually visible as a wealth of vivid moving lines and figures in front of him to see and
dive down to the most delicate secrets of unconscious impulses can. While he thus directed to
a highest increase its visibility and Transfiguration Shoot is aware he still feels just as
determined that this long series of Apollonian Art effects but not produced in that blissful persistence
of mindless viewing, the the sculptor and the epic poet, so really the Apollonian artist, with
their Works of art bring with him, that is achieved in that the justification
for viewing the world of individuatio than what the tip and the essence
of Apollonian art is.

He looks a transfigured world of the stage and yet denies it.

He sees the tragic Heroes in epic clarity and beauty and enjoys it on its destruction. He understands
the process extending into the depths of the scene and takes refuge in love's incomprehensible.
He feels the actions of the hero as justified and yet is charged more if these actions destroy the
author. He shudders at the suffering, take the hero be suspect, and yet they suffer a higher, more
overpowering joy. He looks more and blind deeper than ever, and we wish nevertheless. Where we
are this wonderful self-division, Wrap the top of this Apollonian, to imply, if not from the
Dionysian Magic, which, in appearance, the Apollonian impulses irritates's Highest, but even these
force exuberance of Apollonian force in his ministry can. The tragic myth can only be understood
as a visualization of Dionysian wisdom by Apollonian artifice; He leads the world of appearance to the
limits as it itself says no and again in zurueckzufluechten the bosom of the true and only reality investigated,
where they then, with Isolde to sing its metaphysical swan song seems so:

In the merry sea heaving swell, in the fragrance - waves resounding sound, in the Weltathems omnipresence
drown - drown unconsciously - the highest joy!

So we remind ourselves of the experience of the truly aesthetic listener, the tragic artist himself,
as he, like a luxuriant individuatio deity of his Design creates the sense in which his work hardly
be understood as "imitation of nature" would be - but as his immense Dionysian drive this whole
world of phenomena swallows to get behind her and through their destruction is one of the highest
artistic Urfreude in the lap of the Ur-one can suspect. Of course aware of this return to the
homeland, of the brotherhood of the two art deities in both the tragedy and the Apollonian
report as Dionysian excitement of the listener our aesthetics while you not be tired, the struggle
of the hero with fate, the victory of the moral order or a tragedy caused by the discharge
of emotions as the real tragedy to characterize: Undaunted which brings me to the idea that
they would like at all not be aesthetically excitable people and listening to the tragedy, perhaps
only as moral beings can be considered. Never, since Aristotle, is an explanation of the tragic Effect
been given to the artistic status on an aesthetic activity the listener is expected to be closed.
Soon to pity and cowardice by the serious If processes for facilitating a discharge urged, we should
soon with a victory good and noble principles, in the sacrifice of
the hero in the sense of a moral world view collected and feel excited,
and so certainly I think that for many people just and the only effect
of the tragedy is so much ergiebt the fact that these together with
all their interpretirenden aesthetics, from the tragedy as a supreme
art have learned nothing.

    Those pathological
    discharge, the catharsis
    of Aristotle, from the
    philologists do not
    know quite whether
    they under The
    medical or moral phenomena
    could be expected, reminiscent of a strange idea of ​​Goethe.

"Without a vibrant pathological Interest, "he says," it is I never succeeded in any tragic
situation , Edit, and I have avoided rather than sought. Should probably also a have been of
the merits of the ancients, that the highest pathetic even aesthetic Play with them would
have been as involved with us the truth of nature, in order, such a produce work? "These so
profound last question we are allowed now, after our wonderful Experiences affirm, after we
just experienced in the musical tragedy with wonder have, as indeed, the highest being pathetic
but only an aesthetic game, why we believe are allowed, that only now describe the basic phenomenon
of tragedy, with some success is. Who now only by those alternate effects of ausseraesthetischen
Spheres and has to tell about the pathological - not moral process also raised feels like, only
to despair of his aesthetic nature, whereas we interpret it Shakespeare's after the manner
of the Gervinus and diligent tracking down the "poetic justice" commend as innocent substitute. 

So
with the rebirth of tragedy the aesthetic listener is also born again, to its place so far in
the Theaterraeumen a strange Quidproquo, with half moral and semi-scholarly claims, used to sit, the
"critics". In his previous sphere Everything was artificial and painted over with only a semblance
of life. The Performing Artist did not in fact what he does with such a critical listener to behave
I start and looked, therefore, together with the playwright or his inspirirenden opera composer,
restless after the last remnants of life in this desolate and demanding to be enjoyed being incompetent.
From such "critics" but was so far the public; the student, the school boy, and even the most
harmless female creature was against his advice prepared by education and journals to the
same perception of an artwork. The nobler natures among the artists credited with such Publicum
on the excitation moral - religious forces, and the call of "moral world order" was vicar irend
one where a huge art was supposed to delight the magic of genuine listener. Or It was the playwright
a great, exciting trend at least in the political and social presence so clearly presented that the
audience his critical exhaustion forgotten about and can be similar emotions could not, as
in patriotic or military Moments, or before the Rednerbuehne of Parliament or the condemnation
of the crime and vice: the alienation that the actual intentions of art here and there almost
to lead a worship of the tendency had. But here came in, what with all the arts of feigned
has occurred has always been a fast tearing depravity of those tendencies, so that for Such a tendency
to use the theater as a moral community education event, to Schiller's time was taken seriously,
already under the untrustworthiness Antiques a vanquished education is expected. While the critic
in Theatre and Concert, the Journalist at school, the press in society had come to power, degenerate
the art object to an entertainment of the lowest kind, and the aesthetic criticism was vain as
the binder one, scattered, selfish, and about this poor - unoriginal Sociability used, the
meaning of those Schopenhauerian parable of the porcupines to gives understanding, so that at
no time so much chatter about art and so little of the Art has been held. But can still communicate with
a person who is able to to talk about Beethoven and Shakespeare?

From each according to his feeling like this question answer: it will prove the answer in any
case, what he imagines in "education", provided that he seeks to answer the question at all and
not with surprise is already silent.

Vice versa, some noble and delicate nature of the Qualified whether he described the same in
the As had gradually become a critical Barbarians, an equally unexpected as to tell completely incomprehensible
effects, such as a happy successful Lohengrinauffuehrung had on him, only that he may lack
any hand that admonishing and pointing touched, so that those diverse and quite incomprehensible
incomparable Sensation that rocked him back then, was isolated and like a star enigmatical
extinguished after a short lights. At that time he had known what is the aesthetic listener.

23.

Who wants to examine themselves very closely how he used the true aesthetic listener or is
the community of the Socratic - Critical heard people, who may only be sincere to ask the sensation
with which he receives the miracles shown on stage, whether he about retaining its historic,
on strict psychological sense Causalitaet directed offended if he a benevolent concession to speak,
the wonder as one of the Childhood understandably, it allows alienated phenomenon or whether
it something else thereby suffers. Namely because he is able to measure how far he is competent
at all, the myth, the contracted world to understand that, as an abbreviation of the phenomenon,
the miracle can not do without. It is probable that almost anyone with strict A check and
so by the criticism - feel degraded historical spirit of our education, just to teachers about
ways of promoting abstractions, the onetime existence of the myth to make credible. Without myth,
but every culture is its healthy creative unions Natural force deprived: only one surrounded
by myths horizon includes a whole Culturbewegung to unity from. All the forces of imagination and
of Apollonian dream only to be carried the myth of their indiscriminate wandering saved. The
images of myth must unnoticed its ubiquitous demonic Waechter, heranwaechst under the hat, the young
soul, to the sign of the man, his life and his struggles indicated: and even the state knows
no powerful ungeschriebnen laws than the mythical foundation that its connection guaranteed
with religion, its growing out of mythic ideas.

Imagine now next to the abstract, without myths headed man, the abstract education, the abstract
fashion, the abstract right to the abstract state: Let us recall the random, by any native
myth restrained tails of the artistic imagination: Imagine a culture
that has no fixed and sacred Ursitz, but all possibilities to exhaustion
and from all cultures to nourish miserable is condemned - this is
the present, as the result of that aimed at destroying the myth Socratic.

And now is the myth-free man, eternally hungry, in all pasts and seek digging and grubbing for roots,
it was that after even the most remote Altertheim Huemer them would have to dig. What has
the enormous unmet needs of the modern historical Culture, the Umsichsammeln countless other
cultures, the consuming desire for knowledge, if not to the loss of myth, the loss of the mythical
homeland of the mythical Mutterschoosses? One wonders whether the feverish and so incredibly safe rain
this culture something else is, as the greedy grasping and post-food-snatching of the hungry
- and who would like a such a culture will be something that saturation
of all she devours not, and when they are touched, the strongest,
healthiest food in "History and Criticism" wont turn?

It also would have to despair at our German nature painful, if it is already in the same Way with its
culture inevitably caught, just become one would be, as we in the civilized France can see
to our horror, and what a long time the great advantage France and the cause of his vast preponderance,
was precisely that unity of people and culture, should we, at the sight, compel it to praise
the good fortune that this our culture as questionable until now with the noble core of our national
character nothing common will. All our hopes stretch rather wistfully to that perception from
that restless under the up and down jerking Culturleben a spasm and education beautiful, inwardly
healthy, age-old power is hidden, though only in enormous Moments are greatly moved once and
then again entgegentraeumt a future awakening.

Had he, then, conceived a light passing fancy for her? She thought this possible, though a
little unlikely. He was so different from the other men whom she had known, that she could
never "place" him, or feel that she knew at all what his mind was likely to do under given
conditions, or in cut and dried situations. Undoubtedly he had begun to think about her as
well as about himself, an unusual conjunction, which no one would have anticipated. The "good primitive man" wants his rights:
what heavenly views!

I put another next to it just as clear confirmation of my opinion
that the opera the same principles with our Alexandrian culture is
built. Her window was open, and as she was
pinning some yellow roses in the front of her gown, having dismissed her maid, she heard the
piping, excited voice of Tommy asking a question of some hidden companion in the garden below. 

7.

All the previously discussed principles of art, we now need to take to his assistance to us
in the Maze to find your way, which we refer to as the origin of Greek tragedy must. I think
to say anything absurd when I say that the problem of this origin is so far up does not even seriously,
let alone solved, so often the zerflatternden scraps of ancient tradition already combinatory at each other
sewn and then torn from each other. This tradition tells us, with full determination, that the tragedy
is the result of the tragic chorus and chorus originally only and nothing as the chorus was: how
do we make a commitment to this tragic chorus as the actual Urdrama to see into the heart, without
us in the art are familiar phrases - that he is the idealistic Audience was, or to represent
the people of the opposite region of the scene have Fuerstlichen - To be content in any way. That
last-mentioned, for some politicians raised sounding Erlaeuterungsgedanke - as if the immutable
moral law by the democratic Athenians represented in the popular chorus, be passionate about the excesses
and the excesses The Kings also always keep right - still like so much encouraged by a word of Aristotle
be: to the original formation of tragedy, he is without influence in there from those religious
origins of the whole opposition of the people and the prince at all, any political-social Sphere is excluded,
but we would like in terms of what we know as classical Form of the chorus in Aeschylus and Sophocles
for blasphemy consider here the idea of ​​a "Constitutional popular representation" to speak in
front of which is not blasphemy Other zurueckgeschrocken are. A constitutional representation of the
people familiar with the ancient constitutions, in practice and hopefully not have it in their
tragedy, not even "suspected".

Much more famous than this political explanation of the chorus is AW Schlegel's idea, us some
measure of the chorus as the epitome and Extract the crowd, as the anempfiehlt deemed to be
"idealistic audience." This view, held together with those historical tradition that originally
the tragedy was only choir proves to be what it is, as a crude, unscientific, but gleaming
claim that their Shine but only by their concentrated form of expression, by real-Germanic bias for all
that is called "idealistically" and received by our momentary Erstauntsein. For we are astonished
when we are well familiar with that chore Theaterpublicum and compare us to ask whether it
was possible well from this Publicum anything at the tragic Chore Analog herauszuidealisiren. We
deny this in silence and wonder just now so the audacity of Schlegel's claim as about the
totally different nature the Greek public. Namely, we had always meant that the right audience,
he is who he wants, must always remain aware of having a work of art before him not, an empirical
reality: during the tragic chorus of the Greeks in the figures of the stage bodily existence is
compelled to recognize. The Okeanidenchor really believes the Titan Prometheus to provide for himself
and considers himself quite as real as the God of the scene. And that should be the highest
and purest type of spectator, like the Oceanides the Prometheus to hold for physically present
and real? And it would be the sign of the idealistic audience, to run on the stage and free the god
from his torment? We had to attend an esthetic Publicum believed and held for the individual viewer
to be competent, the more he in Was able to take the work of art as art that is aesthetic, and now we
pointed the SCHLEGEL Expression of that ideal of perfect sized audience the scene of the world
does not aesthetic, but let the flesh empirical work on you. O over the Greeks! We groan, they take us
to our aesthetics! But it used to, we repeated the Sdllegel'schen saying, whenever the chorus came
to language.

But those so explicitly tradition speaks here against Schlegel: the
choir itself, without Stage, ie the primitive form of tragedy and
those choral ideal African viewers tolerated not with each other.

What would it be for a genre that the term of the audience removed would be considered as the
actual shape of the "spectator-in-itself would have. The Audience without acting is an absurd notion.
We fear that the birth of Tragedy neither the respect for the moral intelligence of the masses, nor
of the Concept of the spectacle without spectators had to explain and keep this problem for too
low to be of such species also touched flat viewing only.

An infinitely more valuable insight about the importance of the choir had already Schiller the
famous preface to the Bride of Messina betrayed that the chorus as
a living wall considered, drawn by the tragedy around them in order
to complete clean of the real world and to preserve its ideal soil
and its poetic freedom.

Schiller fighting with this, his main weapon against the common notion of the natural, against the dramatic
in poetry commonly geheischte illusion.

During the day itself on the stage only artificial, the architecture is only a symbolic and
metric Language an ideal character Wear rule, still the error as a whole: it is not enough that
you can tolerate the poetic only as a freedom, but what the essence of all poetry was. The introduction
of the chorus was the decisive step by which each naturalism the art of war openly and honestly
explained. - Such of looking at it is, seems to me, for which our age is superior to imagining
the derogatory slogan "Pseudoidealismus" used. I'm afraid we disagree with our present worship
the natural and real, at the opposite pole reached all idealism, namely in the region the Wachsfigurencabinette.
Even in them there is an art, as in some popular novels the present: we are not only torment
with the claim that with this art of the Schiller-Goethe was "Pseudoidealismus" overcome.

Of course it is an "ideal" ground on which, for the right insight Schiller, Greek Satyrchor, the
chorus of the primordial tragedy, usually to convert, raised a bottom up about the real change path of
mortals.

The Greek has the chorus for the Schwebegerueste a fictitious state of nature and a deal to put it out
fictitious creatures of nature. The Tragedy has grown up on this foundation and of course, as making
the very beginning been relieved of a painful Abkonterfeien reality. It's not a arbitrarily between heaven
and earth hineinphantasirte world, but rather a world of equal Reality and credibility as
the Olympus, together with its occupants for the faithful Greeks possessed. The satyr as the
Dionysian chorus members live in a religiously granted Reality under the sanction of the myth
and cult. That the tragedy begins with him, that speaks of him the Dionysian wisdom of tragedy,
is here with us equally alienating Phenomenon and indeed the origin of tragedy from the chorus.
Maybe we win a starting point of the argument, when I stand up the claim that the satyr the
fictitious nature of being, is to the civilized in the same manner as the Dionysian Music to civilization.
Of the latter, says Richard Wagner, that they lifted from the music would like the lamplight of daylight.
In the same way, I think, felt the Greek civilized in the face of Satyrchors repealed: and this
is the next Effect of Dionysian tragedy, that the state and the society at all, the fractures
differ between man and man an overpowering Einheitsgefuehle that at the heart back to nature.
The metaphysical comfort - with which, as I indicate here already, releases us every true tragedy
- that life in the bottom of things, despite all the changes of the phenomena is indestructible
and conversant with relish, this consolation appears in bodily Clarity as Satyrchor, as the
chorus of natural beings that, behind all civilization indelible and eternal life, despite all
the changes of generations and the Voelkergeschichte remain the same.

comforted her with the chorus, the profound and the most delicate and difficult suffering only
enabled Hellene, who, with a biting looks straight into the awful Vernidhtungstreiben the so-called
world history, just looked like in the cruelty of nature and Danger is to long for a Buddhists
negation of the will. It saves the Art, and it saves himself through art - life.

The ecstasy of the Dionysian state, with its destruction of habitual barriers and limits of existence
contains live during his time a lethargic element, in which everything personally immersed
in the past have experienced. Will separate by this gulf of oblivion, the world of everyday
reality and the Dionysian apart from. But once those everyday reality back into consciousness
occurs is they felt with disgust as such, an ascetic, willenverneinende
mood is the fruit those states.

In this sense the Dionysian man resembles Hamlet has: both once a true view of the nature of
things have done, they have recognized and it disgusts to trade them because their actions
can not alter the eternal nature of things, they feel it as ridiculous or humiliating that is
demanded of them, the world out of joint is to set up again. The knowledge kills action, for
action heard the Umschleiertsein through the illusion - that is the teaching Hamlet, and not that
inexpensive wisdom of Hans the dreamer consisting of too much reflection, as if not a surplus
of possibilities for action comes, not the Reflectiren, no! - The true knowledge, the insight
into the terrible Truth outweighs any motive for action driving in Hamlet as well as in the Dionysian
People. Now no consolation caught more, the longing is about a world after death, about the gods
themselves out, the existence, together with its glittering reflection in the gods or an immortal
afterlife, denied. In the consciousness of the once truth is now seen, man everywhere only the horror
or absurdity of being, now he understands the symbolism in the fate of Ophelia, now he recognizes
the wisdom of Forest god Silenus: it disgusts him.

Here, in this highest risk of will, draw near, when saving, healer witch the art, they alone can those
Ekelgedanken about the horror or absurdity of existence to fold in presentations, live with
can be: these are the sublime as the artistic Taming of the horrible and the comic as the artistic
disgust from the discharge of Absurd. The Satyrchor of dithyramb is the saving fact of Greek
art, from the Dionysian world of these funds are exhausted companion fits those previously described.

8.

The
satyr as the idyllic Schaefer are both figments of our modern times to a the original and natural-looking
nostalgia, but with what strength undaunted Handles the Greeks took
to his forest people, as bashful and soft coo modern man with the
flattering image of a soft kind affectionate fluting shepherd!

The nature of the work yet no knowledge, in the unopened bar of culture still are - that the
Greeks saw in his satyr he collapsed not so with the monkey. On the contrary: it was the archetype
of man, the expression of his highest and strongest Emotions, as an avid enthusiast, the delighted the closeness
of God as compassionate Comrade, where the suffering of God repeatedly, as the deepest Weisheitsverkuender
Breast of nature out as a symbol of the sexual omnipotence of nature, which the Greeks gets
used is to be regarded with reverent awe.

The satyr was something sublime and divine: Sun seem he had a particularly
painful gebrochnen view of the Dionysian man.

Had it cleaned, fictitious Schaefer insulted the undisguised and unverkuemmert great graffiti
nature was staying in his eye sublime satisfaction, here was the Illusion of the culture of the
archetype of man swept away, here revealed to the true Man, the bearded satyr, who aufjubelt
to his God. Before he shrank the civilized caricature to lying together. Even this early phase
of the tragic art has Schiller Law: the chorus is a living wall against the onrushing reality, because
he - the Satyrchor - reflects the existence of true, real, more complete than the commonly eight border
as the only civilized reality. The sphere of poetry does not lie outside the world as a fantastic
impossibility of a poet's brain: it wants the exact opposite be the unvarnished expression
of truth and falsehood, therefore, the surface must be flat that supposed reality of civilized
cast aside. The contrast of this real Truth to nature and who is the only reality behave Culturluege
a similar as between the eternal core of things, the thing in itself, and the entire phenomenal world:
and how the tragedy with its metaphysical consolation of eternal life that being core, in
the ongoing destruction of appearances, indicating so already speaks the symbolism Satyrchors
of a parable that Urverhaeltniss between thing in itself and appearance from. That idyllic Schaefer
of modern man is only a portrait of him as a natural applicable amount of training illusions,
and the Dionysian Greek wants truth and nature in its highest power - he looks to Satyr enchanted.

In
such moods and insights cheered the swarming crowd of Dionysusdiener: whose power they transformed
themselves from their own eyes, so they are restored as Natural geniuses, as satyrs to see,
imagine. The subsequent constitution of the Tragoedienchors is the artistic imitation of that
natural Phaeno men, in the now, however, a Divorce from Dionysian Dionysian spectators and Enchanted
was necessary. Only must we always keep present that the Publicum of Attic tragedy in itself the chorus
of the orchestra again found that it in fact no conflict of Publicum and choir admitted, because
everything is just a great sublime chorus of dancing and singing satyrs or by those who can repraesentiren
by these satyrs. The word must SCHLEGEL to provide access to us in a deeper sense. The choir
is the "idealistic audience," as he is the only shower, the shower of the world vision of the
scene. One of Publicum Spectators, as we know it was unknown to the Greeks: it was in their theaters
each, in which, in the rising arc concentric terraces of the auditorium, possibly, the whole civilized
world over see all around them and actually look in saturated even the chorus members to imagine.
After this insight, we allowed the choir to its primitive Stage in the Urtragoedie, a self-reflection
of Dionysian men call: which phenomenon to make most clearly through the process of the actor is,
who, in veritable talent float be represented by him to touch perceived
role model in his sight see.

The Satyrchor is first and foremost a vision of the Dionysian mass, as again the world of Stage
is a vision of this Satyrchors: the power of this vision is strong enough to the impression of "reality"
against which rings on the seats mounted Education People eyes to make dull and insensitive.
The shape is reminiscent of the Greek Theatre a lonely mountain valley: the architecture of
the scene appear like a luminous cloud picture which the mountain herumschwaermenden Bacchae
see from the height of, as the beautiful Frame, in the midst of them is the image of Dionysus
revealed.

Those artistic Urerscheinung we here for explanation of the language Tragoedienchors To bring is
taught in our elementary-like intuition about the artistic Process, almost offensive, while
nothing can be identified, as the poet only this poet is that he sees himself surrounded by
characters who live and act before him and in their innermost being, he can look into it.
By a peculiar weakness of the modern Talent, we are inclined to imagine the aesthetic primary
phenomenon too complicated and abstract. The metaphor is for the true poet is not a rhetorical figure,
but a substitute Image that he really envisioned in place of a term. The character is not for him
something made up to look Einzelzuegen composed a whole, but one before his eyes intrusive living person
of the same vision of the painter only by the constant Survival and further action is different.
Which Homer describes so much clearer than all the poets? Because he looks so much more. We talk
about poetry Sun abstract because We tend to be all bad poets. Basically, the aesthetic phenomenon
is simple; we have only the ability to see continued during a lively game and always away from
ghost bands to live surrounded, one is a poet, you just feel the urge to transform themselves
and excuses from other bodies and souls, one is a dramatist.


"What is he doing?" whispered Madame Valtesi to Amarinth. "Is it in the thirty-nine articles?"

"No," replied Esmé; "he is only getting up from his seat. How wonderful he is! I never heard
anything more impressive in my life. After all, unpremeditated art is the greatest art. Such
an effect as that could never have been produced except impromptu."

The anthem passed off fairly well, although Jimmy Sands went rather flat, perhaps owing to
the fact that none of the party from the cottage so much as glanced at him during his performance.

"He evidently made allowance for our staring," Madame Valtesi said afterwards. "However, it
can't be helped; we shall know better another time. I thought his singing flat gave a touch
of real character to the anthem."

Mrs. Windsor was congratulating Mr. Smith on his charming little service, and condoling with
him on having been unable to pronounce the blessing. This formality had been rendered impossible
by the ingenious action of Lord Reggie, who had forgotten about it, and evoked continuous music
from the organ ever since the amen of the prayer preceding it, finally bursting into a loud
fugue by Bach, played without the pedal part, just when the curate was venturing to meekly
insert it into a second's interstice of comparative silence, brought about by the solo employment
of the vox humana without accompaniment.

"However," said Mrs. Windsor, "I daresay it won't much matter for once in a way, will it? Is there a pessimism the strength?
An intellectual inclination for the hard, dreadful, evil, problematic the existence of well-being,
from overflowing health, out of abundance of existence? Is there perhaps suffering from the
plethora of self? A tempting courage of the sharpest Sight which demands what is terrible, as to
the enemy, the worthy enemy, at the it can test its strength? where they will learn what "to
fear"? Which means especially among the Greeks of the best, strongest, bravest time, the tragic
myth? And the tremendous phenomenon of the Dionysian? What was born out of that tragedy? -
And again: that in which the tragedy, died of Socratic morality, dialectic, the satisfaction and
Cheerfulness of the theoretical man - how? could not exactly a sign of this Socratic of decline,
fatigue, disease, his anarchic instincts come loose? And the "Greek serenity" of later Greek only
a red sunset? The Epicurean Will hostile to pessimism only caution of the suffering? And science
itself, our Science - indeed, what does this at all, as a symptom of life, all science? What is
worse, where - all of science? How? Is scientific scholarship perhaps only a fear and an excuse
in the pessimism? A fine defense against - the truth? And, moral talk, something like cowardice
and falsehood? Unmorally, a clever trick? Oh Socrates, Socrates, was that perhaps your secret?
Oh mysterious ironist, was that perhaps your - irony? - -

2.

What I got to take time, something terrible and dangerous, a problem
with horns, not necessarily just a bull, at least one new problem:
today I would say that there is the problem of science itself was
- science for the first time as problematic, taken as questionable.

But the book in which my youthful courage and suspicion at that time omitted - what an impossible
book had grown out of such a youth anti-task! Made up of nothing but early experiences about
green self, all hard on the threshold the mid-curable materials, placed on the floor of the
art - because the problem of science can not be detected on the ground of science - perhaps a
book for artists with the side slope and retrospective analytical skills (ie, for an exception-
Kind of artists, according to which one must look and not even look ...), would like full psychological
changes and artists-secrecy, with an artist's metaphysics in the background, an early work full
Jugendmuth and melancholy youth, independent, defiantly self-employment even where there is an
authority and veneration are to submit to appear in short, a first novel in any bad sense of the
word, despite his senile problem, with each error youth affected, especially with its "Way
too long", its "storm and stress" on the other hand, in terms of the success that it had (in special unit
in the great artist to whom it be used as a conversation, with Richard Wagner) a demonstrated
book, I mean one which has at least "the best of his time" done enough. Suggest it should already with
some Ruecksicht and silence are treated, yet I do not want to utter , Suppress unpleasant as it
seems to me now, how strange it now after sixteen years before me, is - in an elderly, spoiled
a hundred times, but not become colder Eye, even that task itself was not strange, to which
is that an audacious ventured for the first time, has - the science of optics under the artist
to be seen, but the art of life .... under the

3.

I repeat, today is an impossible book to me, - I call it badly written, ponderous, embarrassing,
and bilderwuethig bilderwirrig, gefuehlsam, saccharified here and there to the Feminine tables,
uneven in tempo, without the will to logical cleanliness, very convinced
and therefore of proving itself about raising, suspicious even to
the propriety of Proving, as a book for insiders, as "music" for those
who are baptized into music stored on common and rare art experiences
through from the beginning of things are connected, as a badge for
blood relatives in Artibus, - an arrogant and schwaermerisches book,
which was directed at the profanum vulgus of the "educated" from the
start even more than against the "people" concludes, but which, as
its effect proved and proves are good enough and it must to seek his
Mitschwaermer and to lure them to new secret paths and Tanzplaetze.

Here talked anyway - that they admitted that with curiosity as well
as with an aversion - a strange voice, the disciples of a still "unknown
God", which for the time being under the hood of the scholars, under
the gravity and dialectical listless the Germans, even hidden under
the bad manners of the Wagnerian has, here was a spirit with foreign,
yet unnamed needs, a memory bursting with questions, experiences,
concealment, which the name Dionysus was more like a question mark
in the inscription, here said - it was said you with suspicion - something
like a mystical and almost maenad soul, with toil and arbitrary, almost
uncertain whether she wanted to communicate to hide or stammers speak
in a foreign tongue.

You should have sung, this "new soul" - and do not talk! How sad that I am, what I had to say
back then, not to say it as a poet dare: I would have probably done it! Or at least as a philologist
- remains well today for the philologist in this field to discover almost everything and dig! In
particular, the problem that there is a problem - and that the Greeks, as long as we no answer
to the question "what is Dionysian?" have still to utter unknown and are unimaginable ...

4.

Yes, what is Dionysian? - This book is an answer to that - a "knower" talks there, the initiate
and disciple of his god. Perhaps I would now more cautious and less eloquent of such a serious
psychological issue to talk, as the source of Tragedy for the Greeks. A basic question is
the relation of the Greeks to pain, its degree of sensitivity - this proportion remained constant?
or turned around? - That question whether there really always be stronger desire for beauty, for
festivals, amusements, new cults, from want, deprivation, melancholy, pain is an adult? Set namely,
just this would be true - and Pericles (or Thucydides) it gives us in the great Funeral oration to
understand -: where did the opposite would have to request that the time emerged after earlier
product, the demand for the ugliness, the good will of strict the older Hellenes for pessimism,
for tragic myth, in the image all terrible, Boesen, mysterious, devastating, fatal at the
bottom of existence - where would have to originate the tragedy? Maybe from the air, from the
force of excess pressure Health, from about great abundance? And what is the significance then
asked physiologically, that madness, grew out of the tragic and the comic art, the Dionysian
madness? How? Is madness perhaps not necessarily a symptom of degeneration, decline, the ueberspaeten
culture? Is there perhaps - a question for Irrenaerzte - neuroses of health? the People's Youth
and youthfulness? What that synthesis of god and fixed points in the satyr? For what real experience
on which the Greeks had to drive down the Dionysian Enthusiast and
original man as a satyr think?

As for the source of the tragic chorus: there was in those centuries
when the Greek body flourished, the Greek soul of life ueberschaeumte,
may endemic raptures?

Visions and hallucinations, which are whole communities, whole Cultversammlungen imparted? How?
if the Greeks, especially in the wealth their youth, had the will to the tragic and pessimists
were? when it is precisely the madness was to use a word of Plato, who brought the greatest
blessings over Hellas? And if, on the other and vice versa, the Greeks, especially in the times
of their resolution and Weakness, always optimistic, superficial, dramatic, even for logic
and Logisirung the world fervently, that is both "cheerful" and "scientific" are? How? could, perhaps,
all "modern ideas and prejudices of the democratic taste Despite the victory of optimism, the
dominant become more reasonable, practical , and theoretical utilitarianism, like democracy itself,
with which he is simultaneously - Be a symptom of the sinking force of the coming age, physiological
fatigue? And it is not - the pessimism? Epicurus was an optimist - especially as the sufferer?
- - Man see, there is a whole bunch of serious issues with which this book has been loaded
- If we add its worst question, it still! Which means seen in the appearance of life, - The moral?
. . .

5.

Already in the preface to Richard Wagner, the art - and not the morality - in fact than the metaphysical
activity of man portrayed, in the book itself the suggestive sentence versa several times and
again that only as an aesthetic phenomenon, the existence of the world is justified. In fact,
the book has only one artist-sense, and - hidden meaning behind all events, - A "God" if you will,
but certainly to utter only a safe and immoral Artist-God, in building as in destruction, for good
or bad, its the same will be held desire and self-glory, who, creating worlds, from the North
the Fullness and plethora, the suffering of the repressed in contrasts him redeemed. The world, in
every Moments reached the salvation of God, as the eternally changing, eternally new vision of the
suffering, Opposed characters, conflict wealthiest, who knows only redeem themselves by the light:
this All artists you like metaphysics arbitrary, idle, and fabulous - the essentials it is that
it already betrays a spirit, who once at any risk to the moral interpretation of existence
and importance is put on the defensive. Here Announces , perhaps for the first time, a pessimism
"beyond good and evil" which here comes that "perversity of mind to" speak and formula against
which Schopenhauer not tired has become, in advance of hurling his angriest curses and thunderbolts,
- a philosophy who dares to put morality into their own world of phenomena, and not reduce
only the "appearances" (in the sense of idealistic technical term), but under the "deception"
as a sham, delusion, error, interpretation, grooming, art. Maybe the depth of this moral slope
can be best reflected in the careful and hostile Silence measure, is treated with the whole
book in the Christianity - Christianity Durchfigurirung extravagant than the moral issue's, which
mankind so far to hear scored.

In truth, there is the purely aesthetic interpretation of the world
and World-justification, as taught in this book, as no greater contrast
the Christian doctrine, which is only moral, and wants to be with
their absolute and Maassen, For example, even with its truthfulness
of God, the art, any art in the kingdom of lies as, - that is, denied,
condemned, condemned.

Behind such a thought and value Hung manner which must be hostile to art, so long as it's kind
of genuine, I have always felt well Anti-life, the wrathful vengeful antipathy to life itself,
for all life rests on appearance, art, deception, optics, necessity of Perspective and of error.
Christianity was from the beginning, essentially and thoroughly disgusted and fed up of life alive,
which is under the belief in a "different" or "better" life only disguised, but hidden, just mops
up. The hatred of the "world", the curse on the Emotions, the fear of beauty and sensuality,
a hereafter invented, to this world better to slander, basically a request in the nothingness
where's the end, into the rest, even "Sabbath of Sabbaths" - all this seemed to me, as well as
the absolute will of Christianity; to have only moral values ​​are, as always the most dangerous and sinister
form all possible forms of a "will to destruction", or at least a sign of profound disease
Fatigue, discontent, exhaustion, depletion of life - for over morality (in its particularity Christian,
that is, absolute morality) life must be constantly and inevitably wrong get, because life
is something essentially immoral, - has at last life, crushed under the weight of contempt and
eternal No's, as unworthy of desire, as unworthy be perceived as such. Morality itself - how?
morality should not be a "will to deny of life, "a secret instinct of destruction, a revocation,
Reduction, Verleumdungsprincip, be the beginning of the end? And, consequently, the danger of dangers?
... went against the morality that is At that time, with this questionable book, my instinct as
an instinct for speaking of life, and invented a principle to teaching and Hung value of life,
a purely artistic, an anti-Christian. What do they call? As a philologist and man of words I
baptized it, not without some freedom - because who knew of the right name of the Antichrist? - In
the name of a Greek God, I was called it the Dionysian. -

6.

It is understood, to which I ventured to object to stir with this book? ... How very I regret it
now that I had not yet had the courage (or the lack of modesty?) to me in every respect for such
ventures own views and also a peculiar language Allow - that I laboriously with Schopenhauer and Kant's other
formulas and new Werthschaetzungen sought to express what the spirit of Kant and Schopenhauer,
as well went as her taste, from the ground up against! But as Schopenhauer thought about the
Tragedy? "What gives all the peculiar tragic impetus for the collection - he says, World as
Will and Representation II, 495 - is the emergence of the knowledge that the world, the give life
is not reasonably sufficient, can not, therefore, our devotion, was worth: it is the tragic
spirit - it therefore leads the way to resignation, "Oh, how else was talking about. Dionysos
to me! Oh, how far from me was just this whole Resignationismus! - But it gives off much worse in
the book, which I now regret even more than with Schopenhauer Formulas and spoiled Dionysian
premonitions obscured to have: namely that I at all the grandiose Greek problem, like me, it was absorbed
by interference of the most modern Things spoiled! I hope that circumstances linked, where
nothing was to be hoped, where all too clear pointing to an end! I, on the basis of recent German music,
from the "German character" to tales began, as if it was just about to discover their inner selves
and - At a time when the German spirit, which not long time ago nor the will to power over Europe
had had the power to the leadership of Europe, just last will and testament and final abdicated
and, under the pretext of a pompous imperial grounds that his transition to Vermittelmaessigung,
democracy and the "modern ideas" made! In fact, now I got desperate and ruthless enough to
think of this "German character" insgleichen from the present German music than what romance through and through,
and the un-Greek all forms of art: about this but a nerve-destroyer of the first rank, twice dangerous,
among a people who loves the drink and honors the ambiguity as a virtue, namely in its dual
capacity as a heady, narcotic darkening. - Offside hasty change of course by all the hopes and
broken on current practical applications, which I then ruined my first book, remains the great
Dionysian question mark as it is put into it, there are also the subject of music, pealing, as
one would have to Music of a quality which would be no more romantic
origin, like the German, - But Dionysian? . . .

7.

- But, sir, what in the world is romance, if romance is not your book? Can The deep hatred against
"present time", "reality" and "modern ideas" drive further than It has happened in your artist-metaphysics?
- Who would rather prefer not to nothingness, yet in the devil than to the "now" believe? Not
a fundamental bass growls of anger and destruction, lust can, in all your contrapuntal voices,
art and ear Verfuehrerei, a furious Determination against all that is "now" a will which is not
too far from the practical Nihilism is like and seems to say "love is not true, as you would have
that right than that your truth was right! "Listen to yourself, my Lord and Kunstvergoettlicher
pessimist, aufgeschlossnerem ear with a single selected point of your book, it's not that unberedte
Drachentoedter site, which for young ears and hearts seem awkward rattenfaengerisch like: how? This is
not the genuine right-romantic confession of 1830, under the mask the pessimism of 1850 already
behind the prelude the usual romantic finale, - Break, collapse, return and low fall before an
old faith, before the old God . . . How? is the pessimists' book is not even a piece Antigriechenthum
and romance, even something "as intoxicating as a darkening, a narcotic in any case, a piece
Even music, German music? But just listen:

"Let us imagine a coming generation with such intrepidity of vision, with this heroic train
into the monster that we think the bold step of this Drachentoedter, the proud audacity with
which it all the optimism of the Schwaechlichkeitsdoktrinen Turn your back to the whole and
solid, resolute to live: it should not be necessary that the tragic man of this culture, in his
self-education for seriousness and terror, a new art, the art of metaphysical consolation, the tragedy
than belonging to him Helena must seek and cry with Faust:

And should I not, longing violence In life's Dart around the only form? "

"If it is not necessary?" . . . No, three times no! you young romantics: it should not be necessary!
But it is very likely that it shall end, that it ends like this, namely "Comforted", as it is
written, in spite of self-education for seriousness and terror, "Comforted metaphysical," short
end as romantic, Christian, No! You should first the art of consolation
in this learn - you should learn to laugh, my young friends, quite
different if you want to remain pessimistic, perhaps that you point
out, as laughing, eventually all metaphysical Troesterei the hell
sent in - and especially the metaphysics!

Or, to put it in the language of that Dionysian fiend who Zarathustra
is:

"Lift up your hearts, my brothers, high, higher!

And I do not forget the legs! Rise also your legs, ye good dancers, and better still if you
stand on your head! "

"This crown of the laughter, this rose-garland crown: I myself have put on this crown, I myself have
canonized my laughter. I found no other strong enough today. "

"Zarathustra the dancer, Zarathustra the light one, who beckons with his wings, an air heater,
beckoning all birds, ready and prepared, a blissfully light-finishers: -

"Zarathustra the soothsayer, Zarathustra the true laugher, no impatient one, no absolute, One who
jumps and loves Seitenspruenge: I myself have put on this crown!


At four o'clock the sound of lusty singing in the dusty distance announced the approach of
the expected guests, who, under the direction of Mr. Smith, expressed their youthful feelings
of anticipation and excitement in a processional hymn, whose words dealt with certain ritualistic
doctrines in a spirit of serene but rather incompetent piety, and whose tune was remarkable
for the Gounod spirit that pervaded its rather love-lorn harmonies. "No, I did not want them say, moreover,
it certainly is not true;. Mrs. never deceive us "

"So, Elisa, my wife," the man said sadly, "be steadfast, and now farewell,
I go."

"You go, George? - Where are you "

"After Canada, he said, straightening himself up," and if I'm there,
I will buy you; this is the only hope we have left.

I want to buy you and the boy - God me help "

"Oh, horrible! if you should be caught! "

"I will not be caught, Elisa, I will rather die = =!

I want to be free, or ! Die "

"You you're not going to kill yourself?"

"It will not be necessary - they will take me down fast enough. Never should they bring me to
life down the river! "

"Oh, George, for my sake be careful!

Do nothing wrong, put no hand upon yourself, or any one else! You are very attracted to - too much.
You have to go - but be careful, be wise.

Please God that he will aid you. "

"Well, then, Eliza, hear my plan. My Lord, it occurred to me just by here to send a letter to
Mr. Symmes, who lives a mile farther. I think he figured it, that
I would come here to tell you what I get.

It would give him joy Make if he might think that the> <Shelby'sche
people, as he calls it, is annoyed. I'm going home now, and do, as
if I were quite resigned, you know, as if Everything would be over.
Meanwhile, I've taken some preparation, - and I have Friends who will
help me - and in time of eight days or so I will be missing. Elisa,
pray for me, maybe you heard = = the good God! "

"Oh, pray even for
you, George, and trust in him when you go, then you will no evil .
Do "

"Said good-bye = = So, then," George, Elisha, holding hands,
and looking intently into her eyes. Both stood in silence for a while,
then came the last words, tears and bitter Tears, and such a farewell,
as he must take place between people, their hope goodbye is as weak
as spider's web. Then they separated husband and wife.

Chapter Four. And the central
figure of all was Esmé Amarinth, who stood leaning upon an ebony stick with a silver knob,
surveying his audience with the peculiar smile of humourous self-satisfaction that was so characteristic
of his large-featured face.

Just before he began his address Mrs. Windsor fluttered up to him, and whispered in his ear--

"Don't make any classical allusions, will you, Esmé? I promised Mr. Smith there should be nothing
of that kind. He thinks classical allusions corrupting. Of course he's wrong--good people always
are--but perhaps we ought to humour him, as he is the curate, you know."

Esmé assented with a graceful bend of his crimpled head, and in a clear and deliberate voice
began to speak.

"The art of folly," he said, "that is to say, the art of being consciously foolish beautifully,
has been practised to some extent in all ages, and among all peoples, from the pale, clear
dawn of creation, when, as we are told, the man Adam, in glorious nudity, walked perfectly
among the perfect glades of Eden, down to the golden noontide of this nineteenth century, in
which we subtly live and subtly suffer. Either, says this is the nature and the ideal of an object of sadness,
as if those lost, this is represented as unmatched. Or both an object of pleasure by being
presented as real. The first gives the elegy in closer, the other the idyll in its broadest meaning.
Now here is immediately on the common Characteristic of those two ideas in the opera Genesis to
make you aware that in them the ideal is not unattainable, nature is not perceived as lost.
It was after this Sensation of a primitive people, in which he was at the heart of nature and naturalness
of this also the ideal of humanity, in a heavenly goodness and Kuenstlerschaft achieved was: from which
we should all descend consummate primitive man, yes its true likeness we would be: only we would
conclude some of us take to ourselves again as these primitive man to recognize, by virtue of a voluntary
renunciation of superfluous scholarship, of about rich culture. The formation of the Renaissance man
was abolished by his operatic imitation Greek tragedy for such a link between nature and ideal
of an idyllic Reality back guide, he used this tragedy, as Dante used Virgil to led up to the gates
of paradise to be: while he independently from here further step and an imitation of the highest Greek
art form to a "restoration of all things "went over to a replica of the original art world of
man. What confident good nature of this daring effort, right in the lap of the theoretical
Culture! - Only to explain only the comforting belief that "man-in-itself of eternally virtuous hero of opera,
the eternally fluting or singing was Schaefer, who finally find accessible as such are required,
if he himself eventually really I lost some time, only the fruit of that optimism, from the depths
of the Socratic World view here as a sweetly seductive Duftsaeule rises.

So it is not the trains of the opera that elegiac pain of eternal loss, rather the cheerfulness
of eternal rediscovery, the comfortable joy in an idyllic reality you can at least be thought of
as really at any moment: where you might one suspects that this supposed
reality is nothing but a fantastically silly trifling is that everyone
who is to be measured against the terrible gravity of the true nature
and with the actual compare the Urscenen Menschheitsanfaenge would
be able, would have to recall with disgust, "Away with the Phantom!

Nevertheless, one would be fooled if they thought such a trifling Nature, such as the opera is simply
a strong call, like a ghost, scare to be able to. Who wants to destroy the opera, must fight against
those Alexandrine cheerfulness , Which expresses itself in her record so naive about their favorite
idea, yes its true Art form it is. But what is for the art itself from the work of an art form to
be expected the origins of it not in the aesthetic ranges, which is rather a half hinuebergestohlen
moral sphere on the artistic field and has over these hybrid formation only here and there could
even deceive? Which juices partaking of this parasitic operatic essence, if not from those
of true art? Is not conjecture to be that, at Alexandria under its idyllic seductions, his Schmeichelkuensten,
the highest rated and truly serious task of art - the eye to save the view into the horrors of
the night and the subject through the healing balm of to save appearances from the spasm of voluntary
movements - an empty and distracting Ergetzlichkeitstendenz will degenerate? What becomes of the
eternal truths of the Dionysian and the Apollonian, in such a style of mixing, as I explained the
essence of the stilo rappresentativo have? where the music as a servant, the text word is considered
as Lord, the music with the body, comparing the text word with the soul? where the highest
goal at best, a periphrastic Tone painting will be addressed, similar as before the new Attic
dithyramb? where the Music to their true dignity, Dionysian world levels, are completely alienated,
so that it only remains to imitate the appearance as a slave, the formalism of the phenomenon
and excite in the play of lines and proportions of an outward Ergetzung. A strict observation
of these falls fatal influence of opera on music almost together with the whole modern development of music, which
in the genesis of the opera and in the nature the culture represented by them lurking optimism
is at a frightening rate speed managed to strip the music of their Dionysian world-determination
and her a playful form, truly entertaining impress: with which alteration only about the metamorphosis
of the Aeschylus people in the Alexandrian Heiterkeitsmenschen be compared.

But when we hereby justice in the Exemplification indicated the vanishing of the Dionysian
Spirit with a highest visibility, but so far unexplained transformation and degeneration of the
Greek people have been linked - in the hopes we have to revived if we are the safest of all
auspices, the reverse process, the gradual Awakening of the Dionysian spirit in our contemporary
world vouch! It is not possible that the divine power of Hercules forever in the lush Good service
of Omphale relaxed. From the Dionysian ground of the German spirit a power has risen, that the Urbedingungen
the Socratic culture has nothing in common and neither of them explain nor excuse is, rather than the
culture of this terrible inexplicable, is viewed as an overpowering-hostile, the German music,
as we mainly to understand their mighty sun over from Bach to Beethoven,
from Beethoven to Wagner have.

What is the Socratic erkenntnissluesterne our days with the most favorable circumstances can to begin
rising up from inexhaustible depths daemon? Neither of the peaks and Arabeskenwerk melody from
the opera, even with the aid of the arithmetic calculation of the joint board and contrapuntal
dialectic will be the formula can be found three times in the tremendous Light one the demon
to make the submission and forced to speak could. What Spectacle when our aestheticians now,
with the safety net they are a "beauty" beat to the front of them with incredible life, cavorting
music genius and catch, in movements that judged by the eternal beauty any more than for the
sublime will do. It is only like this once Musikgoenner flesh and inspect nearby, if they
so tirelessly beauty! Beauty! To call if they were held as in the groin Schoenen the educated and spoiled
favorite children exempt nature or whether they but for the peculiar brutality luegnerisch an
enveloping shape for the peculiar sensation of heat Search sobriety an aesthetic pretext, and
I am thinking for example of Otto Jahn. Before German music but may take the liars and hypocrites
beware: just because it is midst of all our civilization, the only pure, pure and purifying
fire spirit of the out from and to the way in the teaching of the great Heraclitus of Ephesus,
all things in two moving orbit: all that we now culture, education call civilization is, once before
the infallible judges must appear Dionysus.

Let us then, as the pouring of the same sources spirit of German philosophy, by Kant and Schopenhauer,
it was possible to feel like the contented existence of scientific Socrates, by destroying evidence
of its limits, as modified by this evidence an infinite deeper and more serious consideration
of ethical issues and the arts has been launched to we can actually call the conceptualized Dionysian
wisdom in what direction us the mystery of this unity between German music and German philosophy,
if not to a new form of existence, of whose contents we only Hellenic analogies knowing can teach?
For this unausmessbaren value reserves for us, we the dividing line of two different forms of
existence are, the Hellenic model, that pronounced him all those transitions and struggles
in a classically instructive form- are: only that we were, in reverse order, the large main
epochs of the Hellenic Being analogy and by experience, for example, now backward from the Alexandrian
era to the period of tragedy seem to proceed. It lives in us a feeling as if the Birth of a tragic
era for the German spirit, only a return to itself, to mean a blessed
find themselves, have for a long time after enormous from the outside
her penetrating powers used in helpless barbarism of the form then
living in a bondage were forced by their form.

Now at last he is allowed to return home after his Urquell his character, boldly and freely to all
peoples, without the leash of a Roman civilization, if he goes to learn constantly just from the
people, of which: dare einherzuschreiten learn at all to be able to have a high reputation and an award
is a rarity in the Greeks. And when we needed the highest of all teachers more than now, when
we the rebirth of tragedy and experience are in danger of not knowing where it comes from, nor
can we interpret to wherever they want?

20.

It would like to once, under the eyes of an uncorrupted judge to be balanced, in which Time
and in which men so far to get to the German spirit of the Greeks, the strongest has struggled,
and if we assume with confidence that the finest education Goethe's struggle, Schiller's and Winckelmann's
praise of this one would have to be granted, it would in any case To add that since that time
and the coming effects of that struggle, the striving to get on a same path to education and to
the Greeks, in an incomprehensible way become weaker and weaker. Should we despair at not quite
in the German spirit being forced to, they may not draw the conclusion that in some main points
are even those fighters would like not to be able to penetrate the core of the Hellenic system
and establish a lasting bond of love between the German and Greek culture? So perhaps an unconscious recognition
that the absence in the more serious the desponding doubts aroused if she, after such predecessors,
even in this way further education like that and anyway would reach the goal. Therefore, we
have seen since that time the sentence On the value of the degenerate Greeks for education in
the most serious manner, the expression compassionate superiority in various military camps
of the mind and unreason to hear, otherwise running a completely
ineffective rhetoric flirts with the "Greek Harmony ", the"

Greek beauty, "the"

Greek cheerfulness. "And in the Circles whose dignity could be to tirelessly from the Greek river
bed, for the salvation German culture to draw in the circles of the teachers at higher education
institutions one has learned the best to come to terms with the Greeks early and in a comfortable
way, not rarely, to a price sceptischen Enter the Hellenic ideal and up to a completely Perversion
of the true intent of all Alterthumsstudien. Anyone at all in those circles, not completely in
an effort to be a reliable corrector of old texts or a natural history Sprachmikroskopiker
to be exhausted, has perhaps the need of Greek antiquity, among other Altertheim HUEMER, "historic" to
acquire, but in any case by the method and with the superior faces formed our present history.
Therefore, if the real power of the higher education colleges probably never low and weak been, as
in the present, when the "journalist" who PAPER slave of the day, in suffered any consideration
for the formation of the victory over higher teacher, and the latter only the already frequently
experienced metamorphosis is left now is now in the speech of journalists, with the "light elegance"
of this sphere, more educated than cheerful butterfly to move - in which the painful confusion
must thus formed such a The presence of that staring phenomenon, which is just the very bottom of
the previously unbegriffnen Hellenic genius would be to understand analogy, the reawakening of
the Dionysian spirit and the rebirth of tragedy? There is no other art period in which the so-called
Education and the real art faced once alienated and unwilling had realized as we see that
in the present with eyes. We understand why such a weak educational the true art of a grudge,
for they were afraid of them their doom. But would a All kind of culture, namely those Socratic-Alexandrian,
have been living, after they run in a so-dainty slender tip, as the present education is able!
If there is such a hero, as Schiller and Goethe not succeed, was allowed, those enchanted gate
to vomit, leading to the Hellenic magic mountain, when in their courageous struggle is not
got further than up to that wistful look that to Goethe's Iphigenie from barbaric Tauris out for home about
sending the sea, what would the copycats hope of such heroes when they do not suddenly, on a completely
different from all virgin efforts of the previous culture side of the gate aufthaete himself
- the mystical sound of the reawakened Tragoedienmusik.

No one like us our faith in a still imminent rebirth of Hellenic antiquity wither away to seek,
for in him alone we find our hope for a renewal and Purification of the German spirit through the
fire magic of music. What we know otherwise To call what in the desolation and exhaustion of the current
culture which some comforting expectation for the future might bring? In vain we look out for a single
strong geaesteten Root, for a spot fertile and healthy soil: everywhere, dust, sand, freezing,
Languish. Since one would like bleak lonely can not choose a better symbol, as the knight death and
devil, as it has drawn us Dürer, the knight in armor with the brazen, hard looks, his Schreckensweg,
undeterred by his horrible companions, and take it hopelessly, but with horse and dog white. Such
Diirer's Knight was our Schopenhauer: he lacked all hope, but he wanted the truth. It gives no
His peers. -

But how changed suddenly those just described as bleak wilderness of our tired Culture, when they
touched the Dionysian magic! A storm packing wind whatever is old Lived, rotten, Zerbrochne, stunted,
wraps it in a red whirling cloud of dust and carries it like a Vultures in the air. Confused, looking
for our eyes to the vanished, for what they see rose is like a sinking's in golden light, so
full and green, so lush alive so longingly immense. The tragedy is sitting in the middle of this
abundance of life, Pain and pleasure, in sublime ecstasy, she listens a distant melancholy song
- He tells of the mothers of being whose names are: delusions, Will, Woe. - Yes, my Friends
believe, with me to the Dionysian life and the rebirth of tragedy. The Time of the Socratic
man is over: crowns you with ivy, take the thyrsus at hand and do
not be surprised when tigers and panthers lie down flattering to your
knees.

Now it only dare to be tragic men: for ye shall be redeemed. Ye shall Dionysian pageant from India guide
to Greece! Prepare yourselves for hard strife, however, you believe in the miracles of your
god!

21.

Of these exhortativen back sliding tones in the mood that befits the contemplative, I repeat, that
can only be learned from the Greeks, what such a miraculous sudden awakening of tragedy that mean
for the innermost fundamental life of a people added. It is the people of the tragic mystery that
beats the Persian battles: and again the people need, which has led those wars, the tragedy as
a necessary healing potion. Who would help out with this people, after several generations of
the strongest Twitching of the Dionysian daemon's heart was attracted
to in, nor a so evenly hefty effusion of the simplest political sense,
the natural home instincts the primordial male pugnacity suppose?

 

"My boy, my dear boy!"

       Nothing more was said about the case between them.

* * * * *

Martha had to do to fill with writing and cataloging and bills of lading. Luetje had Nail down
boxes, large and small, and take it to the next station. The whim of the professor was not the
best. Surly he went about the house, was to blame and scold when
something was not running, as he wished.

A large art gallery in Berlin wanted to organize an exhibition of his work, a Overview of his
work through various eras, from teenage years on. A tribute of the hero who suffered for his
country - wrote the owner.

Initially, Rolfers refused.

"Why - no one today has meaning for images. When we entered into an honorable peace have -
yes, I liked it let me. Then they can for all I care honors the dead organize - with the laurel
wreath and the Florschleife under the largest ham.

Now Is it a failure. I will not. "

Finally he was persuaded yet. Practical considerations were decisive. With further Merit was
not expected for the future, then one had seen, as the existing convenient to use. Now his
name was still in the minds of art lovers, the museum director. In two or three years he was forgotten,
and sank the market price of his paintings mean.

So he said to himself, with hard sincerity. And thought of Richard. He had the wherewithal to
Studies are ready.

Even to go to Berlin to oversee the hanging of pictures, plus he could not decide. He shuddered
at the world, before the public. A thousand times already, he was glad to have been the remote
homestead between meadow and mud - here is a shelter for the time
to have the dream away, he still on earth to suffer, was forced.

Is to hide, a weidwund animal, before the compassion, the sentimentality of people was lucky.

He
thought of sending Martha did, but that plan fall right back. She needed not be drawn by the artist
gossip to the capital.

Richard ...? Very young he was such a mission. In matters of art won by a maturity of Understanding,
which was not related to his age.

One of the eternal mystery in the world of natural events: this surpassing
of those called on the laws of Time and downright development ...

"Richard
- you pack a suitcase.

You have the day after the opening of my exhibition be in Berlin.

I give you with a letter that introduces you as my representative.

What do you - happy's up?

You've got to tidy your eyes open, to give me report!

Alas, Man, if you forget something important! "

Richard stood with his mouth open - just stupid astonishment. From the neck up he poured hot flush
cheeks and forehead - and his eyes were shining with every second.

"You - you want me but only kid - it's not true, Professor?"

Rolfers smiled. Something like the boy's face to see now, that was adorable ...

"You see - you laugh -. But it is not true '

This came with an infinitely
disappointed tone.

"Ask your mother!"

"Well, yes, Richard, the professor
will give you confidence. The day after tomorrow with the morning
train you shall go. I ironed your good suit. "

Richard let out a
scream that could have an Indian cries of joy called, and made jumps
in the air as his beloved foal in the pasture.

He raced upstairs
and downstairs and it filled the whole house with the roar of his
stormy and Gesause Youth bliss. Rolfers like Martha got a moment of
silence to feel more until the small suitcase to the basket cart,
stood up to Richard in the eerily cool air border of the gray morning,
taking leave of his mother threw around his neck and Rolf, who also
stood was to him solemnly handed over the letter to the art dealer,
his old friend, his hand shook. Rolf had in the letter made no secret
of the fact that the young Messenger of his son was and hopefully
even his artistic heritage.

"It's worse than the Professor's fit last year," she said dolefully. It does not do not bad in such
big houses - if a really handsome boy opens the door, and comes up and operated. This kind of brings
a handsome price, and this little scoundrel is a funny, copy music to fit precisely what happens. "

"I
would rather not sell it," said Mr. Shelby, thoughtfully; see, "Lord,
I have human feeling, and can not tear the child from the mother.

"

"Oh really? - Something of the kind? - I mean, that's right. 'Tis sometimes = powerful = fatal to
have to do with women. I hate the screaming and howling. Tis = powerful = fatal; But see, as I
set up the business, it is usually avoided. Why do you send not the girl for a week or a few
days or so out of the way? - Then makes itself the matter very quietly, - it is before they zurückkömmt
all over. Your wife she may then Pair of earrings or a new dress, or something to give, what
makes all good again with her. "

"I'm not afraid," said Shelby.

"God help me! These creatures are indeed not like white people, who come over it soon away if you
attack it right. As the people say, "he added, assuming a confidential air, added, - "this kind
of business do a hard-hearted, but I have never been found. The thing is, I've never been able to
drive like that; as do some. I have seen many that the children the women from the arms down,
and exhibited for sale, while those like crazy cried, - great folly, - damages the article only
- it does sometimes unusable. I once saw a lovely woman in Orléans, which totally went through
that kind of treatment on it. The guy who had to trade, would not have her child and she was from
the right, high fashion when their blood was hot. I tell you, she pushed the child in her arms,
and cried, and gebährdete to a horrible way. I am still running on cold when I think of it,
and when they dragged away the child and they locked up, they began to race, and eight days
later was dead. Thousand dollars, sir, gradezu thrown away - only by making false Treatment - how
it is. It is best to operate the thing human; that is my Experience. "

After these words, the dealer refused, virtuous with folded arms and an air Determination back in
his chair, and remained evident for a second Wilberforce. The subject, however, seemed to
interest the man of honor, for while Mr. Shelby thoughtfully peeled an orange, he began to anew,
albeit with modest restraint, but as if he were driven by the power of truth irrevocable, a few
words add.

"It does not looks good, if a man praises himself, but I'm just saying because it's the truth
is. I think I'm known for, that I the best courses on the Negro market bring, at least one has
told me so: all in good condition, - fat and healthy, and I lose less than any one in the shops.
All this is but only from the manner in which I run the business, sir! Humanity, sir, I can say
is the main pillar my business. "

Mr. Shelby did not know just what to say about it, and so he said only: "Really"

"Yeah, see, you laughed at me because of these ideas, and I enjoyed allegations. They were not
popular, and not general, it was said, but I insisted - insisted, and I good profit thus made,
- yes, sir, they have paid off, I can say, "added he, laughing at
his own joke, added. The
story is exceptionally well told."--Boston Traveller.

     ON THE LAKE OF LUCERNE, and Other Stories. By BEATRICE WHITBY.

Each, 16mo, boards, with specially designed cover, 50 cents.

HANDY VOLUMES OF FICTION. It was not peaceful at mind, and she had all those nights her pillow moistened with
many tears. But the two that were keeping each other busy, had It ignored, however much they
complained of pain and grief associated walked beside them.

With two orders Richard next to the main purpose of his trip had been
considered.

The Professor had him in the evening taken up with the studio and showed him a fine old gold chain.

"Look,
I want to give your mother. She has had a lot of effort and work of the matter. And I wish that
you mitbrächtest her a beautiful dress material. A soft wool, which gentle, flowing folds
is the color I thought to myself in a dark purple like ripe Plums.

"The style is happy throughout, the humorous parts being well calculated to bring smiles, while
we can hardly restrain our tears when the poor enthusiast goes to excesses that have a touch
of pathos."--Albany Times-Union. 

THE BEGINNING OF HIS ART

The beginning of the painter's career falls
in the year 1845.

In the spring Böcklin left the school, in the summer he made studies, it seems, both in the
Alps and the Jura, and in October he joined the Düsseldorf Academy. From November, the first
nude drawings are dated.

He was a slender man with grown long hair, almost to the shoulders fell, and blue-gray with piercing
eyes. He had an unusually strong Body, steeled by systematic exercise, to make it pliable and
keep them supple was. This was the basis for his love of life and his humor, his perseverance
and the admirable elasticity with which he jumped up after the worst disaster ever again. The gods had
given him but with the power and the sensitivity and vulnerability of the soul awarded without
a brilliant artist is inconceivable. He could break out in loud cheers, when he went on a beautiful
morning in the countryside, but he felt even more deeply than others the blows of fate, and
it is to him a full fair amount of them have won. The unusual irritability and susceptibility
corresponded to a remarkable memory, what charmed or wounded, is held by the people. His memory
had known as his Capacity limit. He had with all the versatility of the will of purpose of the
facilities and interests, to Richard Wagner and Goethe, and even remind himself said, that have much
space in his head.

He was initially assessed for all visual arts, and far from being merely a colourist be. The earliest
power with which he has entered the public was, according to A. Frey, the draft of a city
gate for the railway from Strasbourg to Basel. Architectural Understanding betrayed his paintings.
As a painter he has gone from the landscape, he but has occasional portraits and sculptures
created the most popular of the century includes many figures and finally in-wall and easel paintings
are highest paid. He has also cut gems and furniture design.

Böcklin has over the years, similarly to Rubens for his purposes, the entire art the past, where
she was studying to reach. His greatest admiration was the Architecture, sculpture and painting
of the ancient world. The Romanesque and Gothic art, he did not love, but it can be found in a sketchbook
Basel two statues of the Freiburg Cathedral and he praised the author of these lines the old
glass paintings of Sta. Croce in Florence. His special Love has long been the Italian Quattrocento
to the young Leonardo, still more, and more and more, he estimated, but since the Dutch van Eyck
and the ancient Germans, including Matthias Grünewald. It can be found in his works also reminiscences
of Raphael, Titian and Rubens. Michelangelo was disliked him, but on occasion when the talk on
this was, he could unprepared from memory, a characteristic figure of this Master, recognizable
to all who design on the marble table. From Titian's "Heavenly and earthly Love is "the naked
statue of a little picture taken over. At the Battle of the Amazons by Rubens in Munich, rejects the
first of his Roman battles (Plate 87). It can be found But in his work and the unmistakable
evidence that he was himself a Michelangelo da Caravaggio and Guido Reni is considered accurate.
From this it has the shape of Venus in Dresden on his own Venus (Plate 12) recovered. Very different
course had his relationship the landscapes of the 17th Tern
 Because she was here for a rest. Like a fire in their bones drove the thought their pursuers,
they continue, and with longing eyes they looked at the dark, sparkling Waves that lay between her
and her freedom.

                         But here we must take leave of her for now, to accompany the course
of her pursuers.

-------------------------

Though Mrs. Shelby had promised that the food as soon as possible on the table should be, but soon
it became evident that more than one person is required to was to
make a deal.

Despite this, therefore, that the order in Haley's presence been bestowed, and transported by
at least a dozen juvenile messengers to Aunt Chloe was this worthy lady was still nothing but
a sullen repeated wheezing in response to hear, and drove away in their stores on a very leisurely
and circumstantial manner.

For some peculiar reason, the general opinion seemed to the servants have to spread that Mrs. would
not be particularly angry about something late, and It was wonderful what occurred for a lot
of adversity in to the course of events to delay. An unhappy young man poured the sauce made,
and then had the sauce # en # novo be made, with due care and long-winded, and Aunt Chloe proceeded
with the most persistent accuracy, and all driving for short cables answered "That she would not bring
raw sauce on the table to the other when catching behülflich to be. stumbled "Someone else, and
fell down with the water, and had Wherefore anew to the wells are
going to get fresh, and then someone else poured the butter is the
obstacle in the course of events, and during which arrived from time
to time giggling news not in the kitchen, master that Haley was mighty
uneasy in his chair and sit still could, but incessantly between the
window and door and down the course.

"Serves him right," said Aunt Chloe reluctantly. "If he already fare
even worse, soon if he does not change his ways. = Being = Lord will
call him, and how it will look like! "

He will go to hell, no doubt,
"said Little Jack. It is admirably illustrated by Dan Beard."--Mail
and Express.

"Mr. Astor has himself almost all the qualities imaginable for making the science of astronomy
popular. He knows the learned maps of the astrologers. He knows the work of Copernicus. He
has made calculations and observations. 

"Well, Locker, no more bites," said Marks, licking his lips, "You see, Mr. Haley wants let us make
a good deal, certainly, and now are 'quiet times, - to make that sort of thing that's just my forte.
So, Mr. Haley, the girl, - as it is? what is it? "

"Well, - white and pretty - well applied.

I had Shelby so 'n eight hundred or a thousand provided for, and yet still made a good business
with. "

"White and pretty - applied well," said Marks, while his sharp eyes, nose and Mouth of desire
shone, - 'now look here, Locker is not that a magnificent opportunity?

We are creating a business for his own account, - we get 's task: - the boy of course get Mr.
Haley, - and the girl we bring to Orleans, and speculate with. Is not it magnificent? "

Tom, whose large, heavy mouth during the communication had stood wide open, let it suddenly
snap shut, much like a large dog a piece of meat to be maintains hold, and the idea seemed to
want to digest in leisurely.

"Look," said Marks to Haley, stirring his punch as he, "see, we have the All along the shore, on
all points, judges enough that we 'nen small favor in our Shops do - quite cheap. Tom concerned
the detention and so - and I'll come then; - Energized - bare boots - all great if the swearing
is to take. Should only see 'time, "said Marks in a feeling busy pride," how can I talk here.
Today I'm Mr. Football Home, of New Orleans - and tomorrow I come from my plantation on Pearl
River, and another time I am a distant relative of Henry Clay, or otherwise any 'nen old cock in
Kentucky. You know, talents are different. Tom is a main guy when it comes to's hitting -
but lie - no, he's good for nothing, not Tom - see, 'tis not natural to him, but, Lord, if
there is one, throughout the country, the All and each can conjure, and all the circumstances, and
what it can bring in, and bringt's better than I - the I should like
to see! - I think - in my soul - I came through, even if the judges
would be more accurate than they are.

Sometimes it was really me rather they were more accurate, - 's was more fun - you know. "

Tom Locke, who, as we have indicated, a man of slow decisions and
movements was interrupted here by Marks that his heavy fist on the
table in such a way could fall down, that everything echoed it.

"That's enough," he said.

"God be with you, Tom, you does not need any glasses to break," said
Marks;!

"Raises People of your fist, if it does need. "

"But, gentlemen, shall I have no share in the profits," asked Haley.

"Is not it enough if we 'capture s boy for you?" Said Locker. "What
do you want next?"

"So," said Haley, "if you do I 's give business,
but that's it' was worth - at least ten per cent of profit, the expenses
charged. "

"Now I see," said Locker with a terrible curse on his
heavy fist of new depressing the table - "Do I know because you do
not, Daniel Haley? Not only thinks that You want to come over me! I will not say that the tragic View of the
world everywhere, and completely destroyed by the thrusting spirit of Undionysischen was: we only
know that they are from the art were, in the underworld, in a degeneration to Geheimcult, had to
flee. A true cosmopolite,
London, Paris, and Calcutta have become familiar to her, as well as New York and Montreal. Above all, however, was Rubens next Grünewald for him the painter
of painters.

Refusing, he behaved in later years at least, against Leonardo, Velazquez and Rembrandt, especially
against Rembrandt.

Even in Dusseldorf, he was noted for his thorough literary education. At that time he read Moliere
and Voltaire, among others. His favorite poets were, however, Greeks, Italians and German:
Homer, Dante, Ariosto, Goethe, Gottfried Keller. used on the cliffs
of Ischia read Böcklin Homer and Ariosto. The singers of the paternal
family but are Schiller and Peter Lever, a contemporary of the great
classics, which in the dialect of the nearby grassy valley sealed,
has been.

