  Hence, you will see that for thinkers[4]
such as these agnosticism is the plainest of paradoxes--a bald contradiction in terms.  It
affects to be unable to discern Mind in the cosmos when it is exercising that very mind in
formulating its doubts.  It is as though a man should go hunting his house for a light with
a candle burning in his hand.  What on earth can we be searching for when the "candle of the
Lord," as Locke called it, is the very illuminant we must employ in our search?  "Tell me,"
Emerson would ask, "the truths your sciences establish, the principle of your philosophies,
are they valid for all intelligences or only some?"  Surely, for all intelligences, you will
reply.  "Then, I will urge, these truths must be one and identical if all intelligences admit
them."  Certainly. "How, then, can there be any doubt but that intelligence itself, mind itself,
is one and identic in all men, since all think alike of the cosmos, and one and identic also
in that everlasting Cause of the cosmos whence, you yourselves admit, all things derive their
being?"

Are we asked for the supreme object of religion?  Here it is, unveiled so far as mind and speech
of man may discover the great reality.  It is the God, not "who dwelleth in inaccessible light,
who is enthroned on the floors of the heavens," or "walks on the wings of the winds"; it is
the God who is "not very far from any one of us," for he is in us, in very deed and truth;
he is the mind, the intelligence; he is the soul of man, and yet the "Over-soul," the soul
of all souls, and we are not so much made in his image, as it was taught of old, but we are
he, we are the Divine, there is no line of division 'twixt us and him; the light in man, the
good in man is God.

Pray no more, then, we urge, to the skies, nor in a holy city or consecrated shrine, a temple,
though it were of gold.  Like the angels that stood by the open, empty grave of the Christ
and said, "he is not here," your souls cry aloud that therein alone is the infinite Soul whose
truth and being alone can satisfy your own.  This is the temple not made with hands of man,
in which alone the Supreme can be enshrined and worshipped, "Foolish doctor, foolish doctor,"
says Carlyle of Johnson, who went tapping for ghosts in Cock Lane, "thou thyself art a ghost!"
Foolish and superstitious beyond bounds, we may say, is the man that thinketh to find the light
of life in a church when it cannot be found within himself.

He who has steeped his soul in this teaching will need no more to commune with an imagination
in the heavens, an anthropomorphic deity in the skies--it is a merciful thing we see no more
of these painful profanities upon the canvases of our artists--nor will he need that his soul
should rise on wings of fasting and prayer "to pierce the clouds" with his importunings and
entreaties.  No, his communings will be with himself, his worship of the silent sort, for he
knows now that there is no God anywhere who is not within him.  He will need no Chrishna, Buddha
or Christ to "make intercession with the Father" for him, no god-babe in a manger or deity
walking the earth in sorrow or expiring in shame, for lo! the Divinity is also every son of
God, and suffering humanity is ever with us, the repression of the flesh is an unceasing sacrifice
which we offer up in the temple of our bodies out of reverence for the Divinity within them.

NOTE.--The best account of Emerson's ethical and speculative teaching is to be found in Cooke's
Life of Emerson, obtainable through Green & Co., Essex Hall, Strand.  I am indebted to it for
much of the expository portion of this chapter.

