"Reasoning from these facts, assuming the rate of change in the forms of life to have been
the same formerly, Lyell concludes that geological phenomena postulate 200,000,000 years at
least," [88] "to account for the undoubted facts of geology since life began." [89] On the
other hand, mathematical astronomy, [90] on theories which Mr. Laing complains of as wanting
the solidity of geological calculations (yet which do not involve more, but fewer assumptions),
cannot allow the sun a past existence of more than 15,000,000 years. [91] "It is evident that
there must be some fundamental error on one side or the other," [92] "for the laws of nature
are uniform, and there cannot be one code for astronomers, and one for geologists." But while
modestly relegating this slight divergency among the "bell-wethers of science" (bell-wethers,
I presume, because the crowd follow them like sheep), to the "problems of the future," Mr.
Laing is quite confident that we should "distrust these mathematical calculations," and rely
on conclusions based on ascertained facts and undoubted deductions from them, rather than on
abstract and doubtful theories, "which would so reduce geological time as to negative the idea
of uniformity of law and evolution, and introduce once more the chaos of catastrophes and supernatural
interferences."[93] As regards the ice-age, Mr. Laing is professedly interested in putting
it as far back as possible, since "a short date for that period shortens that for which we
have positive proof of the existence of man, and ... a very short date ... brings us back to
the old theories of repeated and recent acts of supernatural interference." [94] Strange, that
in the same page he should refer to Sir J. Dawson as an "extreme instance" of one who approaches
the question with "theological prepossessions;" and of course in complete ignorance of Mr.
Laing's indubitable conclusions about the antiquity of Egyptian civilization. 

No answer.

, Tom! "

Everything stops.

, I should be surprised at where the kid puts again! Tom! "

The old lady pulled her spectacles down and looked over it, then she put them on the forehead
and looked away underneath. Seldom or never looked for such a small thing, like a boy is, through
the lenses of their public spectacles that the pride of her heart
was more stylish and useful than they would be seen by some as much
cooker rings have.

Restless, she held a moment look around and said do not just angry, but always loud enough
to be heard throughout the room, "I will keep strict court do if I get you, I will - "

Here she stopped because she had been bent down and poked with a broom
under the bed around, and then she had to catch my breath in order
to express their anger.

She had unearthed nothing but the cat.

"Thus, a boy is not even occurred to me!"

She went to the open door, stopped and peered between the vines and flowering Weeds, which
together made up the, garden, through. No Tom.

So they got for their Voice called out and into all corners:,, Tom,
Tom "Behind her was a faint sound audible, and she turned around just
in time to catch a small boy and prevent them from escaping. ,, Well,
there are you?

At the pantry, I certainly not thought of that!

What have you done again because, hey?

"

"Nothing."

"Nothing! Look at your hands and your mouth. What is that? "

, By God, I do not know, aunt! "

"But I know it 's jam. How many times have I told you if you of the jam left, I would blueing up.
Give me the stick here! "

The floor was shaking in her hands. The danger was urgent.

, Holla, aunt, look up at times fast! "

The old lady whirled around and brought her skirts in safety, while the boy, the moment perceiving,
on the high board fence and climbed beyond disappeared. Aunt Polly was speechless, then she began to
smile good-naturedly. , The Cuckoo's get the boy! I will because the never learn? If he has not
because I already played enough tricks that I always crawl into the trap? But old foolishness
is the greatest folly, and an old dog learns no more new tricks. But, dear God, he makes each
day new, and how can someone know from him what is coming! It seems he knows exactly how long
he can torment me until I'm behind it, and it is so very smart, if we need to do something
find for me to astonish for a moment or make me laugh against my will, it is always the same Story, and
I do not manage to beat him. I am not doing my duty the boy, as I should, God knows. , Spare
the rod and you spoil your child ', ie it.

I commit wrong and maybe it can in front of me and not answer for him, I fear me. He is full
of fools pranks and all sorts of nonsense - but no matter! He is my dead sister Child, a poor
child, and I do not have the heart to somehow lead him to a puppet. If I'll leave him to himself,
expresses me my conscience, and as often as I have to hit him, want to break with the old heart.
Now that's may be Anyway, the man remains dependent weibgeborene his whole life through in doubt
and error, as the Scripture says, and I think it is so. He will play again the whole evening buff, and I
should of right be due to punish him to work tomorrow. It's probably hard for him to sit still
on Saturday if all the other boys have holiday, but he hates work more than anyone else what,
and I will do my duty to him, or I would send the child to reason. "

Tom played blind man's buff, and felt very comfortable with it.

In due time he returned very cheeky help to return home to Jim, the
small colored boy, before the wooden table for the next day to cut
and split - and finally he had Jim's adventures tells of the day,
while Jim had done three quarters of work.

Tom's younger brother (or rather half-brother) Sid was already done
with his share of the work, the reading together of wood, for he was
a phlegmatic young and had no adventure and daring ventures.

While Tom was eating his soup and then stole possible lumps of sugar,
put Aunt Polly all sorts of questions to him, malicious and embarrassing
questions because it was eager to him in to attract a trap.

Like so many good-hearted creatures, they formed their talent in
diplomacy, not a little higher and looked at her very transparent
attacks as wonders inquisitorial cunning.

, Tom, "she said," it was
rather hot in the school?

"

,, M - yes

, Very hot, eh? "

,, M - yes.

, You did not feel like going for a swim? "

Tom was taken aback - an uncomfortable suspicion arose in him.

He looked inquiringly at Aunt Polly's Face, but there was nothing to read it. He said, "No - that is - not so
much."

The old lady reached out her hand to him, felt his collar and said, "Now, it seems me, can you at
least not be too hot, no? "In this way, they thought they had convinced of the perfect dryness
of his collar, without their true intention of Remember to leave
away.

But Tom had understood yet which way the wind was blowing. In such a hurry he wisely to anticipate
all possible questions.

"Some of us have held his head under the pump - mine is still wet - .

Feel only "Aunt Polly was vexed to have overlooked such an important indexing, so had they given
in advance their weapons out of hand.

Then it came a new thought.

, Tom, you've surely not the collar, I had you sewn to the jacket, the sub-keep-the-pump of the
head removed? Do something, even the jacket on! "

Toms faces brightened.

He opened his jacket. His collar was tightly.

, Really. Na 'Tis well, you can go. I could have sworn that you were in the water mayest. Well,
it's time you like burnt cat, I'm up in wrongly suspected had - this time, Tom. "

She was his half-vexed, so driven from the field, and yet she was glad that Tom was really time
obedient. Suddenly Sidney said: "I've seen yet but, that you sewed his collar with white thread
- and now he is black at once!

,, Of course I have taken white - Tom "!

But Tom had already made from the dust. ,, Well, wait, Sidney, which you shall pay me, " so he was
out the door.

In a safe place Tom gazed then two long needles, which under the collar of his Skirt stuck,
one with black, the other with white thread.

, You just never noticed it, "he thought, without this Sid. One black, the other Sometimes
white - the hell I wanted, she opted for one so I knew what I would be. And Sid - well, his beating
him is safe; if I do not do, is to me the Ears cut off. "

Tom was not a model boy, but he knew one and hated him from the heart.

A moment - and Tom had forgotten all his troubles.

Not that they suddenly would be diminished or had weighed less at
the heart of the man, - but Tom had a new, wonderful job, and lifted
him up and helped him over everything - for the moment, as just a
man at the thought of all misfortune verschmerzt to new acts.

This new job was a whole new way to whistle, which some taught him
a Negro boy recently had, and which are now practiced undisturbed had.

The important invention was based on a bird-like warbling trills,
with a simultaneous, brought forth by the tongue strike quick march
of sound.

The reader knows how to do this delicate music has - and he was never
young.

Tom had with diligence and attention Soon the trick, and strolled
out, his mouth full of harmony and pride in the heart, the village
street down.

He felt like an astronomer who has discovered a new star.

Except that none of Star gazer joy and satisfaction was so deep and
untroubled as the toms can be.

The summer evening was long and still light Suddenly Tom heard to
whistle at.

A stranger was standing before him, a boy, hardly bigger than he
is a new acquaintance, no matter what Age and sex, was in the poor,
small St. Petersburg has an event.

This Boy was well dressed - too well for a day.

Strange.

His cap was delicate, his tight-fitting blue jacket new and clean,
as are his pants.

He had shoes on, and It was only Friday! He even had a scarf to a true monster of a cloth. In
general He had something about her, which challenged the natural
man in Tom.

The more Tom's new world wonder looked, the more he turned up his
nose at such affectation, and his own appearance he always seemed
shabby.

Both were silent.

Wanted to avoid a so wanted the others escape, of course, to the
same page.

So they wanted a long time challenging each other in the eye.

Finally Tom said: "Shall I beat you?

, I would like to find out a little!

"

,, The, however, you'll see! "

,, Thou canst not! "

,, Well I can do it!

"

, Pah! "

,, Well I can do it!

"

"It is not true!"

,, But true! "

An uncomfortable pause. Then again Tom: "What's your name?

,, That's none, street boy! "

"I want you have to show that's what concerns me!"

,, Well, why do you do's not? "

"If you say much, I do it!"

,, Much - much - much - so do it now!

,
Oh, you think you're more than me?

If I only wish I could up with a Hand it get! "

,, Well, why do you do it not for? You always say just that you can
do it! "

"If you're naughty, I do it!"

, Pah - that can say that! "

"You are probably the right way, you wind dog!"

"What you aufhast a stupid hat!"

"If he does not like it, you'll beat him down, yes! Hit him down but if you want a few slaps
in the face! "

, Liar! "

"Self liar!"

, Braggart, you're too cowardly! "

, 'Oh, do that you get stuck! "

, You, if you have a long chatter nonsense, I'll throw yourself a stone at his head! "

,, Well, that's wag it! "

"I do it too!"

"Why do you do it not for?

You say it's always just. Do it once yet! You're too scared! "

"I'm not afraid!"

,, Of course you're afraid! "

"It is not true!"

,, But true! "

Another pause. Both stare at each other, walk around and sniff around each other like young dogs.
Suddenly they are in perfect position fight shoulder to shoulder. Tom shouted: , Shear you
away! "

, I can think of nothing! "

,, I remember not one! "
So they stood, each returned a foot as a support to each other from
all around force pushing and angry gaze. But no one could gain an
advantage off the enemy. From this silent battle hot and breathless,
were both held at the same time, and Tom said, "You're a coward and
an ape on top of that! I'll tell my big brother, who can up with Spanking
the little finger, and I'll tell him where's he's doing! "

"What
I care about your brother! I have a brother who is much stronger than
yours. Throws as your brother over the fence! " 

Both brothers were
of course quite imaginary.

, You're lying! "

,, You know! "

Tom
drew a line with your foot through the sand and said, "Come over and
I'll thump you, that you are staying! "

Buy the other jumped over
and said defiantly: "There, now do it!"

, Do not make me angry, I
advise you! "

,, At the Arno, for two'd Penny 'I do's it! "

The
next moment the fine boy had taken a two-penny piece from his pocket
and held Tom before it challenging the nose. Tom struck out of his
hand. The next moment both boys were rolling in the dirt, into each
other bitterly and two cats, and while a few Minutes down and dragged
her on her hair and clothes, beat and scratched himself noses, and
covered with dust and glory. Suddenly, the situation becomes clearer,
and from Tom popped up the fight crowd, riding on the other, and traktierend
him with his fists.

, Say: Enough!

The boy continued his frantic
efforts to free himself away, screaming with rage.

, Say: Enough!
"And Tom beat merrily.

Finally came the other half choked, 'Enough
forth. "Tom let him get up and said, "Well, now you know it! Next
time before you see better, with whom do you tie him! "

The stranger
strolled in, the dust from the clothes hitting, sobbing, her nose
rubbing from time to time looking around to threaten Tom that he beat
him the next time shall, after which Tom laughed scornfully and soul
happily strolled home. And as soon as he his back was turned, lifted
the other on a stone, aimed, Tom struck between the shoulders and
ran away with the speed of an antelope. Tom followed the traitor to
his apartment and found a way where he lived. As a brave hero he remained
challenging a time to a fence, are waiting to see if the enemy would
dare to come out again; but the enemy contented himself with him to
cut through the window faces and took care not to leave the neutral
ground. Finally, the enemy's mother appeared, and called a tom bad,
vicious, vulgar child, and drove him away. So went on Tom, but he
did , said he hoped to catch the enemy yet again. "

He came home
a little late, and as he climbed carefully into the window, discovered
He ambushed in the form of his aunt, and when she saw the state of
his clothes, was her decision taken irrevocably to take him on Saturday
in rigorous imprisonment and tidy to sweat.

CHAPTER II.

Saturday
morning was come, and it was a bright, fresh and sparkling summer
morning of Life. Every heart was full of singing, and whose heart
was young, had a song on his lips. Joy shone on every face, and the
desire to jump flashed around the feet. The Acacia flourished, and
their sweet scent filled the air.

Cardiff Hill, near the house and
the same outstanding, was covered with green and was just far enough
to look like the Promised Land, dreamy, appearing calmly and without
prejudice.

Tom appeared on the scene with a bucket full of color
and a big brush. He looked the fence - and all the faded splendor
of nature, and deep melancholy took possession of his mind. Thirty
yards long and nine feet high fence the unfortunate! Life appeared
he sad. He felt his little existence as a burden. Sighing, he dipped
his brush in the Dash-pot and one of the top plank, repeated the operation,
and again, and compared the small painted piece with the infinite
distance still to be completed - Discouraged and squatted on a tree
stump. Jim came up with a Zinneimer out the door , Buffalo Gals "singing.
To get water from the pump, Tom has always been one of the most unworthy
Tasks appeared, now it seemed different. He said that he then society
shall find; whites, mulattoes and blacks, boys and girls we met there
forever, up to it was the turn to pump hanging out, some exaggerated
a game, were quarreling, beating Betting and employ. [as though he had explained their origin]
"of all the faculties which specially distinguish him from the brute creation, ... all point
to the conclusion that he is the product of evolution." (M.S. 210.) "Man ... whose higher faculties
of intelligence and morality are so clearly ... the products of evolution and education." (M.S.
182.)]

[Footnote 79: H.O. 260.]

[Footnote 80: M.S. 48.]

[Footnote 81: P.F. 17.]

[Footnote 82: P.F. 17, 18. "The conclusion is therefore certain that the land at this particular
spot must have sunk twenty feet, and again risen as much so as to bring the floor of the temple
to its present position, &c. Similar proofs may be multiplied to any extent.... In fact the
more we study geology the more we are impressed with the fact that the normal states of the
earth is and always has been one of incessant changes." (M.S. 35--9.)]

[Footnote 83: i.e., Lyell says: Present causes could give these effects, given the time. Laing
says: Therefore, since they have given these effects, we must suppose the time.]

[Footnote 84: P.F. 18]

[Footnote 85: P.F. 74.]

[Footnote 86: Ibid.]

[Footnote 87: P.F. 20.]

[Footnote 88: M.S. 34, 41.]

[Footnote 89: P.F. 6.]

[Footnote 90: P.F. 23.]

[Footnote 91: M.S. 46.]

[Footnote 92: P.F. 24.]

[Footnote 93: P.F. 32.]

[Footnote 94: P.F. 66.]

[Footnote 95: "Thus giving to palæolithic man no greater antiquity than perhaps about 20,000
to 30,000 years, while, should he be restricted to the so-called post-glacial period, the antiquity
need not go back further than from 10,000 to 15,000 years before the time of neolithic man." (57.)]

[Footnote 96: P.F. 67.]

[Footnote 97: M.S. 109.]

[Footnote 98: Prestwich evinces the same recalcitrance according to the Nineteenth Century,
December 4, 1894, p. 961, being one of the geologists of high standing "who have lately come
to believe in some sudden and extensive submergence of continental dimensions in very recent
times."]

[Footnote 99: 74.]

[Footnote 100: P.F. 84.]

[Footnote 101: P.F. 69, 70.]

[Footnote 102: P.F. 70.]

[Footnote 103: H.O. 364.]

[Footnote 104: H.O. 388.]

XXI.

"THE MAKING OF RELIGION."

Some twelve years since we read Mr. Tylor's well-known and able work on Primitive Culture,
and were much impressed with the evident fair-mindedness and courageous impartiality which
distinguished the author so notably from the Clodds, the Allens, the Laings, and other popularizers
of the uncertain results of evolution-philosophy. For this very reason we made a careful analysis
of the whole work, and more particularly of his "animistic" hypothesis, and laid it aside,
waiting, according to our wont, for further light bearing upon a difficulty wherewith we felt
ourselves then incompetent to deal. This further light has been to some extent supplied to
us by Mr. Andrew Lang's Making of Religion, which deals mainly with that theory of animism
which is propounded by Mr. Tylor, and unhesitatingly accepted, dogmatically preached, and universally
assumed, by the crowd of sciolists who follow like jackals in the lion's wake. Without denying
the value of our conceptions of God and of the human soul, Mr. Tylor believes that these conceptions,
however true in themselves, originated on the part of primitive man in fallacious reasoning
from the data of dreams and of like states of illusory vision. He assumes, perhaps with some
truth, that the distinction between dream and reality is more faintly marked in the less developed
mind; in the child than in the adult, in the savage than in the civilized man. Hence a belief
arises in a filmy phantasmal self that wanders abroad in sleep and leaves the body untenanted,
and meets and converses with other phantasmal selves. In their eyes seemed an expression of pain and defiance, by the
action of the eyelids closed involuntarily. And then she spoke in a unrelenting cold tone:

"Tell him that I also must also refrain from entering into closer contact with him and that rises
more overnight, the rank Holmer Castle in the Forest of Mönkhorst than that I his wife will!
"

       

* * * * *

Over two years have passed since these events, on a cold, foggy March morning a sister dressed
as a compassionate young lady the way in the Copenhagen suburb Oesterbro adopted. In their eyes, that
waiver was to earthly happiness, that peace and mild gentle resignation, the only observe in
the faces of those who were the works of mercy dedicated, and perhaps the hope of what a woman's
heart to a certain age yet met, but have not given up completely,
the performance but with the same eyes To regard with which the experienced
any chance familiar.

They can exist as they find satisfaction in the performance of duty,
they see the grateful Views of the patient directed to themselves,
they find the most delicious reward that a person be his Thätigkeitstreue,
may re recovery of their care is entrusted. -

inhibited in front
of a big old house with many miserable triangular windows and sloping
walls it includes the step, turned into a situated next to the passage
and opened the door of a rear yard located on the dirty side cottage.

His room consisted of a tiny front and back room, which as an old
married couple Living room, bedroom and kitchen were used.

Earlier in the living room that contained nothing but than a few meager curtains over the windows,
a table, a chest of drawers, an oven and a old armchair sat in the latter a blind, old, helpless
woman, and now just darkened such a suffocating Petroleum steam the room that Imgjor Lavard,
as well as further before the world was involuntarily recoiled.

"For Heaven's sake, Mrs Ohlsen, what have you done?"

Came out Imgjor worried. At the same time she opened the window and let fresh air in. penetrate.

"What
is it? What is it? "Rang back the old voice.

"Remember you do not it? The room is full of smoke. You could smother it! "

"I've done something to me warm.

I was cold so terrible. I have then the machine probably screwed too high - "

Imgjor nodded, although the blind could not see them.

You could also use this topic of conversation fall and asked with his usual clemency:

"Well, how are you today, Mrs Ohlsen?

Did you sleep better? "

"A little, miss. This morning I have but again such terrible pain in the feet. "

"Then I'll rub it again, poor old man! Afterward, when I'm done, I do me that! "

After these words she took off her hat and cloak and went like a Maid to clean the apartment.
They swept out, she made the beds in the bedroom, they rinsed dishes in the kitchen. This all
had to get a day a strange hand. The blind woman could do anything, not their limbs as they
waived their Sehunvermögen, could move, and the man, who returned early and went late from
work, declined because he lacked the strength for everything already,
just exhausted on his bed.

For twenty-two years ago the woman was
blind. During this time he had for himself and only earned that much,
that they had barely enough to eat. And the blindness during these
years were constantly serious diseases, care, and waiting, the Doctor
and pharmacy was required. For twenty-two years old was hardly ever
come out of the house had known nothing else but hardship and pain. There may indeed be abundant evidence
of a certain impetus or tendency enduring from a comparatively distant and indefinite past
and making for an equally indefinite future; but there is not, cannot be evidence against the
possibility of interference from other laws whose paths, at points unknown and incalculable,
intersect those followed by the (to us) ordinary course of events.

And in this wholesome agnosticism we are confirmed when we see that while some animals are
deprived of certain senses which we possess, and all of them of the gift of reason, others
are apparently endowed with senses unknown to us, and are taught by seeming instincts which
surpass what reason could effect; whence we may infer that the likelihood of our being en rapport
with the greater part of the possible phenomena amidst which we live, or of our possessing
all possible senses or the best of those possible, is infinitely small. What a magician a man
with eyes would be among a race of sightless men; or a man with ears among a deaf population!
How studiously would the scientists explain the effects of sight as produced by subtilty of
hearing; and those of hearing as due to abnormal sensitiveness in some other respect!

But though there be no à priori impossibility in deviations from the beaten track, yet there
is a certain à priori improbability which may seem to justify those who refuse to go into alleged
instances of the supernormal. There is a story against Thomas Aquinas, that on being invited
by a frisky brother-monk to come and see a cow flying, or some such marvel, he gravely came
and saw not, but expressed himself far more astounded at the miracle that a religious man should
say "the thing which was not." This is certainly a glorious antithesis to Hume's position.
Whether we take it to illustrate the Saint's extreme lack of humour, or a subtler depth of
humour veiled under stolidity, or his rigorous veracity, or his guileless confidence in the
veracity of others, we certainly cannot approve it as an example of the attitude we ought to
observe with regard to every newly recounted marvel. Truly there might be more liberality,
more enlightenment, more imagination in such a ready credulity, than in the wall-eyed, ear-stopping
scepticism of popular science; but the mere inner possibility of a recounted marvel does not
oblige us to search into the matter unless the evidence offered bear some reasonable proportion
to the burden it has to support. That this is the case as regards crystal-gazing, telepathy,
possession, and kindred manifestation, is what Mr. Lang contends; nor would he have any quarrel
with the anthropologists were they not fully impressed with the importance of similar or even
weaker cumulative evidence for conclusions which happen to be in harmony with their preconceived
hypotheses. Where such evidence exists it must be faced, and at least its existence must be
explained.

True criticism should either account for the seeming breach of uniformity, by reducing it to
law; or else should show how the assertion if false ever gained credence; but in no case is
it scientific to put aside, on an à priori assumption, evidence that is offered from all sides
in great abundance. Psychic research is daily applying to that tangled mass of world-wide evidence
ancient and modern for the existence of an X-region of experience, those same critical and
historical principles which created modern science. Men who, as often as not, have no religion
or no superstition themselves, see that both religion and superstition are universal phenomena,
and cannot be neglected by those who would study humanity historically and scientifically.
Even if there be nothing in hallucinations, apparitions, scrying, second-sight, poltergeists,
and the rest, there is a great deal in the fact that belief in these things is as wide and
as old as the world; it is a fact to be explained. "Each man," says Meister, "commonly defends
himself as long as possible from casting out the idols which he worships in his soul; from
acknowledging a master-error, and admitting any truth that brings him to despair;" and indeed
a system as complete and compact as that of Mr. Spencer or Mr. Tylor is apt to become an intellectual
idol forbidding under pain of infidelity all inquiries that might cause it to totter on its
throne, or which might unravel in an instant what has been woven by years of hard and honest
thought. Few of us are in a position to cast stones on this score; still, recognizing the weakness
more clearly in others than in ourselves, we are justified in reckoning with it, and in discounting
for the unwillingness of men of science to listen to facts inconsistent with long-cherished
theories, and for their tendency to accumulate and magnify evidence on the other side.

We cannot for a moment question the sincerity of purpose and honesty of intention of many of
the leaders of modern scientific enlightenment, whatever we may think of the said crowd of
vulgarisateurs--those camp-followers who bring disgrace on every respectable cause. But beside
wilful bias and unfairness, there is unconscious bias from which none of us are free, but from
which we need to be delivered by mutual criticism; for, however much a man can see of himself,
he can never get behind his own back. Of such unwitting dishonesty men of thought are abundantly
guilty, when deeming themselves to be governed only by reason, they are in fact slaves to some
intellectual fashion of the day. Not one of them in a thousand would dare to appear in public
with the clothes of last century, or to face the laughter of a crowd of his compeers. Hence
a certain indocility and rigidness of mind which they only escape who live out of the fashion
or have strength to lead it or to live above it. Simple, whether from greatness or littleness,
they escape the narrowing influence inseparable from being identified, even in their own mind,
with a school or coterie; and can afford to say things as they see them.

Contemporary fashion says at present that there are to be no miracles, nothing supernormal;
whatever cannot be reduced in any way to known laws and causes can be flatly denied, for the
supposition of unknown causes and laws is rank heresy. Until more recent years, it was not
permitted to listen to or show any disposition to investigate the narratives of phenomena which
have since been "explained" and reduced to such legalized causes as hysteria or hypnotism,
and even (of late) to thought-transference. 

And will again be raised in their minds, she addressed some previously deferred questions to Gebine.

"Was
someone there while I was gone, child?"

She threw out.

"Yes, dear Countess! A man wanted to talk to - "

"A man or a gentleman? - What was he like?

"It was - I believe - a sailor. - I was afraid - "

Imgjor recoiled violently. She thought of the attack, and involuntarily she brought the Visit
with the event name.

As Imgjor that night finally won the power to to scream, two were
randomly located not far from the park entrance night watchman hurried
and the Tramp had scared away.

He had shouted at her but that he again know will meet.

"As he looked for, Gebine?

War's a big, strong dark man? "Imgjor heavily researched excited.

Gebine nodded.

"Yes! He had a red scarf around his neck. "

Imgjor started. So it was therefore the same! A red-brown cloth that was in the night worn.

"And what you said Gebine?"

"I said, Countess would be out of town. They would come this evening back with a gentleman, with a Captain.
"

"Why did you say that? How did you get that? "Imgjor's said in surprise.

The

child wrote an anxious look on her mistress.

She did not answer.

"Well? Say! Why you spoke of a captain? "

"Yes - I - was so terrified - he looked at me so strangely - and there, as thought I, if I said
that, he would not come back he would not bother countess. "

Imgjor said at first. She wondered whether she or Gebine scold her for her care should give praise.
Anyway, they meant well, she had acted very caring.

At last she thought she had found the right thing. She said: "In this case, your untruth useful Gebine.
In such an emergency may be even allowed. But otherwise you have to up the most stringent Take
pains truth.

Nothing is so detestable as the lie! arise from you all other vices. - And one more question: What
said the man, as you said this?

"He asked how long would the captain, and who he was."

"And you? you? What - you replied Gebine "?

"I said - I said - that it would be your groom -"

"But this was again a lie!" Came out Imgjor now angry.

"What are all for inventions - for fantasies! - I'm beside myself,
Gebine!

       This makes I was very sad.

Have you lied to me yet? Often? - Speak up!

You said yesterday, i would have only given half a crown when you came back from the grocer. I
would mistaken. Say! And I warn you to say something other than the truth! That's it a whole
crown? Did you put the other half in the bag? "

"Oh, no - no - certainly not, countess!

I said the countess, only the truth. - The merchant sent me to leave soon. I had the money wrapped
in paper - I had not looked - "

"Can I believe you, Gebine? See, child, if you have deceived me - I will ask - You must be back
to your stepmother. And if you doest later, I pull my Hand irrevocably back from you. "

And sinking back because overwhelmed by all the impressions Imgjor
whispered: "Oh, what insights in the interior of people - every day,
every hour!

Where the truly pure, good guys are?

"And then they called over the child and said,

"Certainly, an example of how you had it in the house, Gebine makes
bad and apologized up more!

But you got the ability to differentiate is not lost, so I say and you know and believe it:
Only from the good material can be profitable!

For a while, like's To go but there comes a time where you have to pay dearly for it when
you take deep regret, where you want to give anything to happen to
undo!

So - and then go to bed! Weep no more! No, no, I'm not angry with you. "

And Gebine went. Imgjor Lavard thoughts but emigrated, while she sat still, according to rank
Holm, and her's was again now, as if there an Eden, an incomparable paradise is - in But the
big world - hell -

* * * * *

On the following days Imgjor already left her apartment and went to their duties.

She attended some of the sick and Rekonvalescenten, addressed in the
house of a widow, a paralyzed owned subsidiary, which had been sent
to Imgjors costs in a German spa, received news of these that they
enjoyed, took the acknowledgments from the stuttering Woman held and
went then to their banking business on the way there for the Kollund
to get required sum.

She had not even a moment there, more credit, but she knew that her a not to large-sized without
such a sum would hand over.

On the way there she saw - and the heart was about to stand still - those people which they
had attacked in the oft-mentioned night. He turned from a bookstore, before the window he stood,
straight back to the street, and only by chance was prevented, that
he saw Imgjor.

His attention was by a carriage, that Horses become shy distracted.

That used random Imgjor to escape his gaze.

She slipped quickly into an open-standing tobacco business, was equal
to a low in the rear Commission and located just wanted a pound of
tobacco for the old Ohlsen, the man of the blind, , Barter than now
randomly Doctor Kropp entered the store.

Very surprised, but with the usual deference he spoke to Imgjor, and as they trade had done, he asked
for permission to join her.

And Imgjor nodded willingly walked with him until the countryman Bank, where he had them waited,
and then put in his company the way back to her apartment.

Always, the conversation turned to the events in the Hospital, and Dr. Kropp reported the reasons
for his resignation, which was also essentially theirs.

At last he came - they had just reached the corner and turned in the Gotersgade the tacit agreement
of the botanical garden - in his own, of Stede already touched matters.

"I

want," he began and directed a slightly embarrassed look from the black eyes of his dark-colored,
narrow face and a little lean on Imgjor, "I ask you, whether well
be free in the county of your father's country practice one would.

I long from the local clutter out, and I come to it because me years ago a former university friend,
Presto a doctor told that such a by him in the deserted village Kneedeholm to have his will.

Probably has long since been re-established himself there, a doctor, but I wanted I make it
and in the case, ask your kind assistance, Countess! "

"The would you also, as far as my staff, very happy about services available, doctor. But we have,
as they suspect right in sufficient Kneedeholm a doctor, and for two of the Practice is not enough.

But
I know that the pre-aged physician in the nearby town of Oerebye
Activity is tired and some are happy with a successor would be.

Maybe that would be something for you? "

"Certainly, and so much the better! Thank you authentic, Countess! May I in this direction count on
your kind assistance?

I would perhaps your father - your recommendations based - to provide you with such a physician
to have the kindness?

Imgjors trains changed. She wondered whether she Kropp of the now-occurring
incidents in their family should be notified.

She swayed, but only because she was afraid of a repeated disappointment.

The terrible experience of the last time you had instilled distrust of everyone.

They did not consider it impossible that Kropp will change his attitude
when he said, that suddenly a poor, reputation, make her name and
wealth being robbed was.

But as yet another defiant in her desire was to do away with all to know what is wheat and what
chaff, they finally decided just to a wholehearted Opening.

"My own recommendation is always at your disposal, sir," she began.

"A those of my father, I hold you but not to give unfortunately. I am completely deal with it. I
even put down my name, and will now take another one.

A few weeks ago, and I go away from here forever! Where, I do not know. It is to find a place where
I'm going to earn my bread. "

"What? In fact, "Kropp came in highest surprise, but also with an expression out, which proved
that something else that a blessed hope stirred in him.

"I beg, I beg you give me your trust! Tell me how this all came is, "he urged, as she settled on
a small lake located in front of the bank.

Honest compassion filled him, concern and participation could speak to him.

And he also wanted to give Imgjor answer, but because in that moment of twelve from the church
tower struck, she was reminded that at this time einzuhändigen Kollund
the money have.

       She rose at once and therefore Kropp was a statement that she had
gone, Now that you lack the time.

In the afternoon they can him, because of their commitments against a blind woman, not to receive,
but later in the evening in her apartment, wanted they like to tell him everything.

At the last words came to her while concerns.

It was restlessly on the soul that Kropp could visit her to be misinterpreted that could develop
them into new allegations, which they prevent at all costs wanted.

And as then, while they walked along, further discussion developed, as Kropp learned how matters
have to Kollund and with the blind, as it turned out, Imgjor that only out of compassion for the elderly
clean the apartment every day and read to her, was He stopped suddenly and made an admiring glance
at the young girl at his side.

"Ah, what a noble, selfless beings you are, Countess!

Truly, you are looking for your kind in vain! But how confident you are too! You may not have
a Oer the impostor Kollund give. It's all a lie! The circumstances he used to give you money
out of pocket to attract. I urge you to give me the matter in hand. I am the imposter make
its position clear, I will assess him to waive all Schilling! preserve for better purposes, more useful
for yourself, dear, dear Countess, you Your money! Well, what do
you mean? May I be your lawyer?

"

"I am my word, gave Mr. Doctor! Even if you are right - it may be possible - may, I can break
it not. "

"Of course! They are even obliged to level such swindlers not yet the way! Do you believe that
the same man sold himself to me when I told him today on behalf of
a Consortium of the application site, other places in Denmark talks
in the opposite sense to keep?

Of course! Gold must be the Lockspeife! "

"Oh, no, no, for so miserable for so vile I do not believe it! They go too far! " Imgjor cried.
"From what he teaches, he is convinced!"

"It is not possible to be appointed to you by a sample to prove the
correctness to provide my statements, Comtesse.

I lack the means. But again I ask that you trust me with your thing to accomplish! Tell him or
when a messenger comes, this, a friend of Lord, will visit Mr Kollund to settle the matter. I
bring you all right, you rely on it! Only the place, if such really must be paid, and the
cost of the listings I will pay him and he will be satisfied.

From his secure successful end renunciation you will know already,
what a mind it is a child.

"

"Come now!

Yes - I will! Thank you! Do you succeed, so will the money come to those who of which I know she's
in need. And now goodbye! About seven clock I expect you in my apartment.

We will then discuss anything that even the execution waiting. "

After these words Imgjor took of her companion - just they had arrived at her apartment - With
a friendly parting glance.

* * * * *

Once at the top, she saw a strange man in the hallway, and Gebine said at once that he came from
Kollund.

After he had been informed and had moved away, went to Imgjor in her room to write some lines to
Curbière, and as the letter they just had finished, Gebine appeared and announced that an
unknown to her Lord wished to speak to.

"Question after his name!" Decided Imgjor, detected by a pleasant idea. She saw inquiringly aloft,
as Gebine with a card in his hand again entered the room. Also attacked them with a hasty hand
afterwards, found the name she had expected, and nodded as a sign their consent to want to receive
the visit, with his head.

And then, moments later, Curbière came into her room, kissed her respectfully the hand and declared that
he had come to take leave of her. His father was suddenly died, he Curbière, had to leave that
very evening Copenhagen, but did not go away want, without having seen it once and Imgjor
spoken.

"Lavard bereavement leave due to tomorrow night also went to Copenhagen and Rank Holm back, "concluded
the Marquis.

"Before they go, Lucile wants you, dear Imgjor speaking, would you consider whether not yet found another
way to peace. However - the talk you may not . Keep Join 'this evening in public, the Count
is determined to be inevitably break away from you, and this also give publicized! I ask that you
give it, yes, I implore you, dear Imgjor, bring your family to love
such a sacrifice!

       "

First Imgjor was no answer, she was initially need to Curbière over death his father to speak.
She was informed in depth about him, listened attentively and pressed his full participation
in his hand when he was seized last a soft mood, as He said in moving
words that he and his death, the best ever lost in the world have
what he called his own.

"They have found evidence Lucile, dear Armand! Thus, the fate was already sympathetic concerned
for you, you for what it would take you to provide a replacement. "

Curbière silently moving his head, then looked Imgjor with a deep, all his thoughts and the sense of
judging them on sight, and said a short, scattered: "Certainly - but"

"I have yet to give a response," directed Imgjor rapidly and carefully. "The lecture I will not hold,
I found myself unexpectedly relieved of my word. So calm down my father! But, my dear friend,
I no Lavard will be again. Unless - "

"Well, Imgjor?" Said Curbière's tense.

"The fact that I disclaim all, and forever come back to rank Holm. And that is what I can not,
as much as I adore my foster parents have reason, and however much I love it and me to each
spot tendon, where I was happy as a child. I can not exactly in abundance and I can not live without
devotion to my fellow man! "

"If you stay for in Copenhagen, Imgjor?"

"No - here I have slander and envy the stay impossible. I knew only
one place where I fit - "

"What is that?"

"I want to go to Paris.

There, I think I would be able to implement in deeds, which I as an ideal envision. There is
the ground for me, and I think those who think like me!

"

The first moment came alive Curbières eyes.

She spoke with such enthusiasm his native city of Paris! The flattered him. But just as quickly
won other thoughts the upper hand. Everything was lost if he did not exactly dissuade this idea!
He knew that they are reaching not only nothing, but would certainly perish. In this sense,
language it to her.

After he had refuted all their objections convincing, he concluded: "And want us to make a
sacrifice themselves and return your own ego, then get married The Count Dehn! I will conceal
his coming. He arrived yesterday and returns tomorrow night with yours to rank Holm back. That
he still with the old passion love, I know. "

Imgjor had heard of corpse pale in the face of the last words, also had their hands instinctively reached
for a support point. There was again a new assault on their Affairs, then came even this temptation!

But
short was her only fight.

Presto had loved her because she had hoped through him their to realize ideals. Axel Dehn
loved her with the strength of the love that out of respect arises. A lively interest in the Frenchman
had risen in her, because he next his worldly education had set repeatedly to the day that he
was a man of sense and spirit was, and that he also had a noble heart. But Presto hate she
had been learned, was Count Axel Dehn not love her - and Curbière belonged to her sister! So
everything was decided. By Curbière watched with a look, through which they sent ahead already,
that they dealt only with the serious side of this serious subject matter, she said: "I can
not judge if you chose the right path. It would also be possible was that you had with such
candor just does the opposite! You have me everything I have to wear something heavy to bear.
But you have my Friend called, and it should not be done for nothing, Armand! I refrain, to go
to Paris, but her request to marry the Count Dehn, I can not fulfill. I will never marry, neither
he nor any other! "

With these words she looked at him with such a stubborn expression
that the man also endeavor change her, spent. Yet they both exchanged
a handshake with the idea of ​​pure Souls. Then he left. But she declined,
while the sound of his footsteps died away on the stairs back into
a deep inner silence.

* * * * *

In the afternoon, boarded a Imgjor
Tramwaywagen and went to the apartment of the old woman Ohlsen. It
was her, arrived, already remarkable that they have a number of women
and men, vividly speaking, was on the court, and not a little startled
when her to her question, if something had happened, replied, was
that the old man had stirred in the morning of the strike.

By chance,
we've discovered it and got the old man know about them. It had considered
that he had already left when they heard a heavy fall in the kitchen.
Imgjors first Idea of ​​this accident was the reflection of what was
to be helpless now as the widow. Now it was through this death-by-resource
deprived of life altogether. And from this Whereas directed their
ideas on the obvious. The man had buried be. She gave one to such
purposes by her husband paid job to fortzubegeben immediately to order
a corpse laundress and a carpenter for personalized measurement of
the coffin to call. And after that was done, she went to the old woman
said gentle words of comfort and declared her as gently as possible,
that she must now move into the poor shelter. Also opened to her that
she Imgjor, Copenhagen would leave soon and personally in any way
more to care for them was in a position.

And the blind man as the
head bent in one stroke, while tears from their lightless Eyes dropped.
Nor Imgjor then went to the kitchen to see after the dead. Of course,
which has offered her was shocking. Cold, stiff and motionless, the
old man lay on the floor. him to bed was required. And such Imgjor
caused by the neighbors, and after also happened, she told the old
woman, send her for the days to help to do. She decided to send her
Gebine. Their conversion into the arms of refuge to operate, they
promised her again, and after this the old woman with deep emotions
stirred nodded, Imgjor took leave of her.

"Adieu, Adieu, Mrs Ohlsen!
Wear whatever God sent you, with patience! Many have far more difficult
- "

And the old man nodded again as she Imgjors hands with her thin
fingers firmly clasped.

"God bless you, countess," she sobbed. "I
will always think of you, and even with my last breath I'll be upon
you, as plead down a human angel! "

Imgjors eyes were wet. All the
hardships, of all ingratitude were forgotten, they other had experience
with this one man, in whose hearts tested yet trust in God, yet Noble
sentiments, nor thanks feelings had space. Then, with a final handshake,
"said it: would "money and my girl, I will send. It is taken care
of. Adieu! Adieu! God bless you, my good old man! "

And: "Adieu!
Adieu! "Sobbed the woman, from other things, being darkened with the
last Imgjor matte shimmer of light faded.

Imgjor but taught, also
stepping, the eye up. She found herself with her again and again trusting
hearts and lifted with the ardent yearning for love deeds again. There
was still susceptible, but even more grateful. So she thought again.

After
Imgjor had just set up the evening in her living room, was the bell
moved, and Dr. Kropp appeared to make a date ate term report on his
visit to Kollund to pay. Imgjor and approached him with no little
excitement and that even before he still took place, a question on
the result.

"At first he pointed at my request a waiver back sharply,"
said the doctor, Taking place. "He wanted," he said, "you talk to
yourself and to your given word . Remember The same falsehoods, which
he had brought against you, he renewed, and he took the mouth even
fuller. Only when I explained that I was in one of the Copenhagen
newspapers would publish, what would the character demands, which
he to you, my dear Countess, have made in this matter, he gave writhing
after. But a flood of accusations followed against you as against
me, before I told him, after a second, thorough Check your back turned.
"

"Ah - really!" Met Imgjor, taken out of deep loathing. Then she
handed Kropp moved his hand, spoke to him their thanks, and handed
him the money he Kollund had paid. Finally she asked him to stay still
until she offered him a cup of tea have prepared. She handled it that
he wanted to speak else because their time and place but seemed not
appropriate. Basically, they hoped that he would reject the request.
But he, who in general had no other thought than they, which, moreover,
could not expect anything to know what circumstances they left their
wealth and deprived of her name was agreed to with thanks, and sat
next to her, as even the clock tower of the tenth Hour was announced.
Then she urged him to go himself, and when he then another compassionate
question that, what they do with it then, where they would turn to,
she said: "A Week, I need almost 'still, just to assign everything
to also take leave of them, I have met over these years in detail.
Then I want a job somewhere as a sister looking at a hospital in the
north or the south of Germany. What later happens, have time and opportunity
to teach. The real fruit of its labours will be to "convince
men of sin," to convict science of being unscientific, and criticism of being uncritical--of
being biassed by fashion to the extent of refusing to examine evidence which must be either
admitted or explained away. Scepticism and credulity alike are hostile both to science and
religion, and it is the common interest of these latter to secure a full recognition, on the
one side of the principle of faith, that with God all things are possible; and on the other,
of the principle of science which is: to prove all things, and hold fast that which is good.
Credulity tends to make the actual co-extensive with the possible; while scepticism would limit
the possible to the known actual. The true mind would be one in which faith and criticism were
so tempered as to secure width without slovenliness, and exactitude without narrowness.

II.

How, apart from the imperfect lingering tradition of some primitive revelation, the belief
in a surviving soul originates with contemporary savages, or might have originated among still
ruder past races, is a question of some interest, not only for its own sake, but for the sake
of whatever little light it may throw upon the more vital question as to the value of that
belief. Had the doctrine of souls no other origin than a false inference from the ordinary
phenomena of sleeping and dreaming; were it in no sense an instinctive belief, suggested perhaps
and confirmed by supernormal facts, it would still have interest for the anthropologist as
one of those almost necessary and universal errors through which the human mind struggles to
the truth, such as the errors of astrology or alchemy; but it would in no way contribute to
the argument for immortality ex consensu hominum--an argument of much avail when it is a case
of man's instinctive judgments and primary intuitions, which are God-given, but of ever less
value in proportion as there is a question of deductions, inferences, and self-formed judgments.
Even if we discard the dream-theory altogether, we get no support from the consensus of savages
as to the soul's survival, unless we have reason to think that the facts on which their inference
rests are truly, and not only apparently, supernormal, and are, moreover, such as leave no
other inference possible.

We know only too well that there are universal fallacies as well as universal truths of the
human mind. For the practical necessities of life the imagination stands to man in good stead,
but as the inadequate instrument of speculative thought its fertile deceitfulness is betrayed
in his very earliest attempts at philosophy; nor are his subsequent efforts directed to anything
else than the endeavour to correct and allow for its refractions and distortions, to transcend
its narrow limitations, to force it to express, meanly and clumsily, truths which otherwise
it would entirely obscure and deny. Schscht! Schscht! "(Lets the steam escape.)

Tom was completely absorbed in his Anstreicherei, he was none of the
arrival of the steam boat!

Ben paused for a moment, then said, "Ho, ho, criminal work, Tom, eh?

No answer. Tom surveyed his work with the eye of an artist. Then he made with a brush or an elegant
bar and held back criticism.

Ben ran over to him, Tom watered the mouth after the apple, but he
stood absorbed in his work.

Ben said, "Hello, old boy, criminal work, eh? "
, 'Oh, it's you, Ben. I had not noticed you. "

,, You know, I'm
going to grad swimming. Would you go along are welcome? But, of course,
remain you prefer in your work, right? "

But if besides facts and appearances that science can really explain away, there be a residue
which takes us into a region wherein science as yet has set no foot, then we may indeed be
on our way to a confirmation of the usually accepted arguments for immortality by which the
positivist may be met upon his own ground. In truth, metaphysical, moral, and religious arguments,
however much they may avail with individuals who are subjectively disposed to receive them,
cannot in these days influence the crowd of men who need some sort of violence offered to their
intellect if they are to accept truths against which they are biassed. The temper of the majority
is positivist; it will believe what it can see, touch, and handle, and no more. Also on arrest Her mother
because of abuse of the daughter I'll pass. So you're talking about! That the letter written, your
former fiance, the guard vessel has stated - - "

The girl, a voluptuous blonde, pressed his lips together, distorted
his mouth and answered not.

The mother remained in defiant rebellion.

"Nobody has a right to invade my house and in my business mix!" she said. You have to be all interrogations
before judges, and their investigations would revealed that her daughter's
letter is not written that "for the punishment of her step-daughter
have been entitled to because they've stolen in this cheeky way.

The final sentence was interrupted by contradictory words from the mouth the crying child solved.

She
had taken nothing. She is innocent! But Torah, which they accused's
had been.

You've seen this chest of drawers opened and have taken the money.

Of course this speech was again a boundless rage on the part of the
nurse.

You flew to the child and raised by cursing his fist at their face.

Only by an intervention of the police but was prevented repeated punishment.

But this particular incident worsened the matter of family Holm.

The Polizeiofficianten, an energetic man, tore the patience.

He ordered immediate rest and Peace and the declaration required by the countess.

"Never contradict, you do what is required of you! Or I'll take you and your Mother immediately.
They stand for a long time to answer for because of other things! "

Now the old woman suddenly changed their attitude.

After all kinds of phrases she admitted that she had probably been a little too violent, and what
Torah regards, it can now hold times which is indeed not at all in
check.

It is possible that they have to be tempted to write such a letter,
and if they have done, Sun should something not happen again.

The Countess may have mercy take the law -

"To say I accused the Countess Lavard wrong.

I take back everything repent, and to please, forgive me! "met Imgjor, directing their gaze on
the ordinary creature out.

Still fighting the person, but then, encouraged by her mother now looks and words she said
half loud apology.

In Imgjor but the feeling of rebellion stirred in the fullest extent.

So that was the humanity, who sacrificed himself! Laziness, lack of passion and crudest Thanks
to every better feeling and emotion you were against all too often, and this just had them
back one such example in mind.

Had to be solved not only because all other tasks?

Did not start with an internal education begin?

After the agreement that she was satisfied, silently moving her head,
she said, turned to the old

"I'll take your stepdaughter! I will
study it and is it worth as much as I hope I will in future take care
of them. "

After these words she grasped the blessed listen attentively
to the child's hand and made a requesting View to go to her respectfully
provide physician.

And in no time curtsied and bowed, the bad, old
woman. Now they did not know enough of the virtues step-child of praise.
She said yes to everything, also went up at the last moment flattering
to Imgjor approached and asked, lamenting their terrible distress,
for support. You kissed the hem of the dress of the countess, as this
under the declaration, they do not say no; but it must make contributions
from their daughter and their future depends on attitude, with the
others left the house.

When the morning came, Imgjor was back in
the little room for the blind, read to her for her commitment for
the first time before and was happy when she saw that her full Interest
in listening. Thus understood, the entire religious history
of the race, as also of the individual, viewed from its mental side, consists in an evolution
of the idea of God and culminates in a face-to-face seeing of God.

From the evidence amassed, or perhaps rather, sampled, by Mr. Lang it would seem that, what
we account the lowest races are in possession of a confused idea of God, whencesoever derived,
which is in substantial agreement with the reflex conception contained in the above definition;
and that there is no existing series of intellectual stages whereby this can be seen, as it
were, in the act of growing out of previous simpler ideas. Evolution in the direction of greater
clearness and distinctness is to be observed, as well as a downward process of obscuration
and confusion: but for a substantial development of the idea of God from an idea of "not God"
there is no proof forthcoming so far.

On the animistic hypothesis we should be prepared to find the notion of God, as above stated,
to be of very late development and accepted only by races fairly advanced in culture. 

And while Graf was still trying Dehn worrying about the animal that appeared through the action
of sound Top lured, Comtesse Imgjor realized, according to a count Dehn, donated volatile polite Greetings,
what had happened, and indulged their favorite lovingly caressing and comforting, in excited words
about what happened. But she nodded, clearly recognizable as the Dehn agreed to fetch water,
sponge and canvas, and picked up after they brought in and the animal was connected to the roadbed
in such a castle on their own arms.

"Please join me and open my doors," she asked. "I want him in my own Room to bring him maintain
himself there, "she added, to the grateful licking the hand Dogs,
he bends lovingly added.

Imgjors chambers were located on the first floor of a porch, in the
form of a tower the left, between extreme corner of the palace flanked.

They could be from the yard, but reach of the same corridor, which contained Graf Dehn's room.

Right next to the entrance to his apartment stairs led first to a semi-circular Floor up, and
this led to the court soaring spiral staircase.

Graf Dehn had long been felt the strong desire to have a look into
the rooms to throw, in which the thoughts and senses so exclusively
employing young Girls lived.

Now he should be so, and he followed with a certain haste and Imgjor their burden.

She went not into the palace, but chose the path that up on the court and from there led to their apartment.

"Please,
please," she instructed Axel, when they had reached the top, and
pointed to a hidden Angle at which hung on a hook attached to a key
hidden.

And Count Dehn hurried to meet her command.

He opened the room.

But it was only a look at the inner courtyard permissive hall with tapestry and old-fashioned
furniture.

The actual two living rooms were on the park side.

Graf Dehn was completely numb from the charming character of the first chamber, which Imgjor
called her living room.

A large table covered with books and all
kinds of precious commodities, was in the middle. Around him a number
of small sofas, floral-embroidered with rose-colored, silk fabrics
were hung, and just such divans stood between the white and the room
filled snow golden rococo furniture.

A rich library in costly bindings
was located in one side of the wall, and she was semi-protected by
a white silk curtain. We ourselves, like
the savage, necessarily speak of God and imagine Him humanwise,--although our instructed reason,
at times, corrects the error of our fancy,--and perhaps only "at times,"--only when we leave
the ground of spontaneous thought, to walk on metaphysical stilts--nor while that childish
image remains uncorrected and we neither affirm nor deny to Him a body, can our notion be called
false, however obscure it be and inadequate. If the savage has no notion of spirit, yet he
may have, and often seems to have a very true, though of course infinitely imperfect, notion
of God; nay, perhaps a truer notion than those who affirm, without any sense of using analogy,
that God is a spirit. For if His spirituality is insisted on, it is rather to exclude from
Him the grossness and limitation of matter, and to ascribe to Him a transcendental degree of
whatever perfection our notion of spirit may involve, than to classify Him, or to predicate
of Him that finite nature which we call a spirit. God is neither a spirit nor a body; but rather
like Ndengei of the Fijians: "an impersonation of the abstract idea of eternal existence;"
one who is to be "regarded as a deathless Being, no question of 'spirit' being raised;" so
that the first intuition of the unsophisticated mind is found to be in more substantial agreement
with the last results of reflex philosophical thought, than those early philosophizings which
halt between the affirmation and denial of bodily attributes, unable to prescind from the difficulty
and unable to solve it. Our mind, oar heart, our conscience, affirm the former instinctively,
while the latter does continual violence to our imagination, except so far as spirit is misconceived
to be an attenuated phantasmal body. Not only, therefore, does the savage imagine God and speak
of Him humanwise, as we all do; but if he does not actually believe Him to be material, he
at least will be slow in mastering the thought of His spirituality.

Another assumption underlying the animistic hypothesis, and also borrowed from Christian teaching,
is that the savage regards the soul or ghost as the liberated and consummated man, and that
therefore he will place God rather in the category of disembodied than of embodied men. Yet
not only the Greek and Roman, but even the Jew, looked on the shade of the departed as a mere
fraction of humanity, as a miserable residue of man, helpless and hopeless, and withal disposed
to be mischievous and exacting, and therefore needing to be humoured in various ways. Nay,
even Christianity with its dogma of the bodily resurrection, denies that Platonic doctrine
which views the body as the prison rather than as the complement and consort of the soul; although
it holds the soul to be of an altogether higher, because spiritual, order. 

But this sample, it had also instructed that they stay away from the rooms of palaces had. The adulation
that had provided stimuli to the senses, the perfumed atmosphere on them.

Pure thoughts, and through them the restoration of peace of her soul, she had to recover.

Had not even insisted that they granted her a freedom that they now they had? She had been under
their heaviest fighting. She had vowed to love to give a man, certainly never one to indulge Axel Dehn's
triumph, the admission their love to hear.

Would she not disclose the mocking smile of fortune-telling wise guy
when suddenly she was unfaithful to her events again, even from the
scene of their activity resigned?

But they spoke in Denmark of Grevinde Lavard! They had been with the sacred Elisabeth in Germany
compared.

And her poor, corrupt mother had a silent Oath made to the unhappy
to accept the curses exposed women!

If they break him? No, never!

She pressed forcibly down everything in what could make their decisions
staggering.

And all these ideas joined today the memory of Presto.

Only once was Imgjor met him, back when they intended for permanent removal to Copenhagen been
on the road.

She had a young girl, probably his bride, on which the two Danish
Islands ferry connecting Korsoer seen, and because he had not even
greeted, were the feelings of outrage, pain and the thought that anyone
from this dangerous People warn again ascended to her.

But now the girl on his arm was when an angel came between him and
her.

Your Appearance had stifled all vengeful impulses in Imgjor.

Ingeborg Jensen had her wrote then, she had sworn to forgive her
fiance, and her pleading Words was Imgjor with her soft heart died.
-

Almost an hour Imgjor had lost in such thoughts sat.

The attire they had done away, dissolved the dress from her body. She was like, when her eyes happened
to be in the mirror fell, a marble Psyche.

And before they visited their camp, they seized a Danish book that
lay on her table.

"What is happiness?" Was the title.

What is happiness? Yes, what was happiness? It brought about compulsory routine at first. But duty
was a flexible term. Was combined with heavy duty self-renunciation - And she struggles that made
it but did not happy! Was she ever happy?

She shook her head sadly.

No! It had retained the right, whose wisdom had ridiculed them.

Where there was the biggest reason? Their experience had given her on the answer: In those
who touch the things of this world is not with violence but with
prudent Reason that, without philosophy that they mute or loud about
it to know and stick to it, that time and circumstances are Mitordner
of things, have the good middle strike, it steadily Who follow the
lure although side roads are so many harps with süßklingenden tones;
the desire at last from the day and the hours not more than they give
away the nature of things assets and what they, the demanding, are
receptive.

However, please Imgjor chased by all as restless a reasonable Phantom designated objectives after, earned
no gratitude, but mostly the opposite.

The recipients of their good deeds had told her many times that they were not called so that
it has imposed itself, that without it also and become cope better be!

Then she sat down and like a child - and still such a lack of Experience - wept bitterly.

Yes, how different was the world of ideas and the reality! Curbière had their said, and in every
word she had supposedly heard talk Axel Dehn:

"We suffer from three diseases: the women of the once rumored, now the world of men adhering
Vanity, the improvement and mutual Bevormundungssucht.

The worst destroyer of our present conditions are those which, instead of the time left to
give a gradual travel of things to throw up Staatsverbesserern, the Vanity mirror to the contemplation
of their immense wisdom and meaning in your pocket all the time , Who almost invariably act for
that reason only, self-indulgent, his head held high, talk and talk and talk again establish and
adopt resolutions.

We have the means to improve our situation in the immediate vicinity. But we put so paired in
the very bottom of our selfishness, with softness and indulgence,
that we through artificial means to force a balance. can to a recovery
of our state we get only when we all return to simple, natural conditions,
when meets every strict in its sphere of his duty to his house in
order first carefully and then the helpful neighbor offers his hand,
and the latter again the next, so that every patient, vigilant and
faithful to the load adds to the difficult or less difficult to his
shoulders rests, and when at last the socially threatened by opponents
of peaceful development of things, namely the Social Democrats, the
art of unity and self-sacrifice learn firm and unbreakable gather
together and act as soon as subversives who commit order undermine
want.

       Each man was nature, like the animals, with the tools to fight for
its existence.

They use it should first of all, do not look for third party, using the artificial.

count on support of ships, if you go on floodplains in boats, the start of Gates.

What was it, then asked Imgjor that moves constantly in her mind, yet Lessons and experiences pushed
aside? She found no answer.

* * * * *

When Imgjor the next day and got up late to do some domestic duties
went to her desk, she found to her dismay that she had been robbed.

It lacked several hundred crowns, which they had set aside a customs officers, severely stricken
father support.

The theft must have been during her absence last night had performed,
and could enter only because her Aufwartemädchen their rooms, they
must be the thief.

This Imgjor suggested again to extraordinary, especially since they the servants and their parents
proved very many blessings and gratitude, therefore, least of loyalty
had expected it.

But they also found in her mailbox, which they habitually upon completion Breakfast opened, a letter
whose contents they aroused nameless.

The letter read:

"Nothing else drive you away from the gilded rooms in rank Holm, as your addiction, you to make wide
to draw the public attention on you. And why?

To your petty to satisfy ambition, so we talk about you, writes, in short - does something to
you from the you are nothing but. You mean you can not see through. But the world has sharp
Eyes. One half ridiculed and laughed at your foolishness, and the other that of the initiated, concerns
with the idea to tell the Count Lavard, as his name is dishonored by you.

Such emancipated as you belong in a correctional. You reform the world? You of need and put an end
to misery? Quench your own misery! Because you know it, you have enough to do with you, and you
know - why! So make an end with the comedy and Paid newspaper articles that are apart of your
celebration!

Return go back where you came before you have to necessarily take flight! "

Imgjor sat for a longer time as stunned. That was the most infamous, their yet become. And when it
came perhaps from the same source from which the rest of her Injuries had come, so it was
through such probability their restless Ideas are not fixed.

Her eyes were fully open this document. So the verdict of the masses; such motives, she pushed
her in!

And that was so horrible that she had at that moment deep crawl into the earth and never again
let them come to light.

Away, away, away only from Copenhagen with his ingratitude, his envy and meanness! Previous
Rank Holm, where the white pigeons fluttered to the high towers of solitude, where Quiet,
gentle peace prevailed, where there is no repulsive hunting and chasing after money and position,
where there were simple relations: where to get one without first hills outside the city,
the rising sun in her innocent, noble beauty, and lay down, saw where the moon the silent way
silver, on which they are living a happy, unaffected by the turmoil
of the world Child was accompanied changed!

Ah! The roar of the cattle, the neighing of horses, the pure sounds of the country, homey smells,
the strong smell of earth, and their rooms in the tower, with a View into a world that could
not be thought beautiful, the people lived in, good, true-hearted,
grateful, not bad as this! -

But this storm was passing within her,
and came to Imgjor others to the old Decisions.

She wanted to continue to go into the homes of the poor, and despite trying all the hostility, not to falter
in what she had once chosen as a life lesson.

The next Day she wanted to attend a lecture in Sommerlyst that a come over from Sweden keep Kollund
reformer, a former priest, would.

Yes, that she was determined! -

It was the following evening. Even the last hour had Kollund, a former minister and Now the
new ideas with a fiery zeal which pays homage preacher finished his
presentation, had always made such promises to the starving world
that Christ in fact nothing else wanted, but what they themselves
now striving in greater community.

He also had saying, "Come unto me all ye that are weary and burdened,"
and only by doing Christianity had the hardship and misery to rid
the world.

His words had Imgjor therefore taken more than all those of his predecessors, because of the
purest Enthusiasm carried through, and because they seemed to breathe from that selflessness that you itself
was intrinsically.

As much as she had put on the pale revenue range view of the speaker, that They remained even after the
lecture in Sommerlyst. She had introduced to him and told him who
she was.

And then she was with him came in an arbor of the garden and had
here, fanned by the gentle breezes of the spring night, shared their
thoughts with him.

She was too crippled in the process, they had him by the impressions of the last eight days, with
a candor stood as if she knew him for many years, he has forever have given their trust.

And the man who had an unshakable convinced moves the head with an air of if he do not need
to hear, as if he knew already what take place in their soul.

"I went there like you, countess," he said.

"I've probably cast aside everything a hundred times again, I do despair.

I learned so much ingratitude and so many non-sights, that I be shouting in anger and I broke
out in the words:

"So you help yourself!

You do not deserve that an honest man even a single step for you does! You are giants in the
business, the receive and the selfishness, and smaller than ants in the knowledge of what ye yourselves
are guilty of what Thanks to their duties unpaid those who stand in your services!

With the meal, your appetite is growing up indefinitely. Your calls last, where you have to ask.

Months
ago was a woman, which I donated food every day, suddenly.

When I met her and asked her why she no longer coming, she replied to me in a disdainful Sound:

She
was eating with me no longer good enough.

They operate now in the house of a merchant and receive other there, much better food.

I had to call out on your tongue, you:

"They should not be you, you insolent! I'll report that, what an unworthy you are! "

But I thought of the misery that would happen then maybe again, and
turned anger in gentleness.

I spoke to her and stopped in front of her on which way she was wrong. For that's our job! Do
not be angry, even revenge, guide rather forgive, by moral Promotion
of individual seeds spread of a gradually rising, heavy fruit.

And They believe:

So base throughout the world often gives so unfair, so one-sided,
it judges usually it contains but also precious opinions.

There is one on truth and reality-holding Judgement, and that and the occurrence of those
righteous will triumph in the end.

In general, the world has a very fine sense of direction, she knows very well between to distinguish
the valuable and worthless. -

So, wait out! Even the name of the lights Grevinde Lavard by the Nordic country. That she has to
endure challenges that they are either a fool or vain adventurer scolds, that's a lot that it
shares with all those that possess a higher spiritual flights, which
are not content with being merely.

"

Imgjor had listened to the speakers with enthusiasm. She started every word on his lips went
on as gospel. So beautiful, so his features were glorified! Over the pale face hung, almost
as a mark of indifference to everything outside, a lock of black
hair, his dark eyes glowed in the fire of conviction, and a sick Coughing,
which interrupted his speech, he spoke with that gentle devotion to
the martyrs own.

       

"I create as long as I can. Will of the Creator that I stop, it is his Reasons are, and send a different,
more capable, stronger. "

Now, in his presence, under his influence is Imgjor refused once again
to the sober Superiority of a Dehn Axel, a marquis of Curbière on.

It was very convenient to talk, how they did it.

Gradually, would wetted by their words and views from the constant rain of the time, the rock
crumbling in large inequalities! But the rain should just contribute to the Place where the stone rested,
fertile land aufthue it! Even they did not want Stir, do not strain your muscles!

In it, the preacher Kollund, was what a Christ, a Mahomet to the post at hand pressed. He was
the appointed champion of the new doctrine. At last they had found him.

After Imgjor had agreed with Kollund that she still wanted to meet again once took her own way
back from Sommerlyst walk. Their apartment was near the Rosenbergs
Castle in the Kronprinzeßgade.

When, after a strong adversely they walk to the corner of this and the Gothergade was reached,
suddenly appeared a young man approached her and spoke in a very importunate Way to them.
And when they advanced to him by rapid parts tried to escape, he was as quickly again at her side,
repeated use of the deserted area, its applications, and embraced,
despite Imgjors extreme resistance, her body.

"You are Grevinde" he whispered, her tighter and closer to her drawing. "This grant You still
a poor, people yearning for once a happy hour. Others may it! Why do you want me to fail? Oh, how
beautiful you are! I saw you sitting with Kollund. The lucky!

I ask, my sweet child - come along - come along to the bank!

Let us talk. Listen, who I am, and know that I am worthy of you! "

Imgjor lacked the breath and the words failed her. She wanted to scream and call for help could
not. With tremendous strength, he lifted her up, carried her into the interior of the park and disappeared
with the Halbohnmächtigen under the trees.

* * * * *

Rank in Holmer was sitting in his palace by the three windows soft peach paint colors sexy high
and decorated with old paintings and rare Ovenschen Nordic furniture Count Peder Lavard work
room and smoked a precious meerschaum pipe.

The silver- Head emerged in blue rings floating up, a seductive fragrance spreading clouds, and
an expression posses remarkable comfort stuck in the trains of the owner of the castle.

Opposite him, in a high chair in the sixteenth century, leaning back, talking the Marquis of Curbière,
who today was wearing a snow-white suit in a Paris magazine, and now just a small, thin cigarette
by rapid contact with a lighted wax candle had ignited.

The men talked about the coming days at a court festivity taking place,
to that with the exception of Imgjor, both the family Lavard, as well
as the Marquis, after previous Marking out his name in the in the
royal hall designed registration book, invitations had received.

And it is that we excluded Imgjor that you, as always, took no notice of it had brought the often
discussed topic of their emancipation and again in the river, let
the gentlemen To think through what means they could finally cure
them of their adventurism.

All the more, the family dealt with Imgjor, as some recent events also had their name put back in
very unwelcome in the public.

Always Count Lavard was under the fear that his good relations with the court by could happen
Imgjors conduct a demolition.

The newspapers had been informed that former minister in Kollund Sommerlyst held a lecture attended
by thousands and that the known Grevinde Lavard same not only witnessed from beginning to end and applauded
him very vividly, but also with the speaker later a long night I
alone confers.

And the next day had the same newspapers known to tell that an attack
on the Countess was committed.

After the lecture evening she was carelessly paced home alone and,
in near the Rosenborg park reached by a tramp, whose family they many
blessings proven to have attacked, and was badly damaged.

They lay prostrate in a nervous fever and are maintained by a Sister of Charity. Her family stayed
a day at her bedside.

Since that time, three weeks had passed.

Imgjor was back up and had recovered.

In a ceremony at the Prime Minister, who had attended the royal family,
was indeed The king met the Count and his family very gracious, but
it had yet to even words like the first time that his views were about
the young Countess Lavard very clear have come to light.

"I am sorry,
my dear Count, that the countess has been affected by such an accident.
But I would not only that, but just as much in the interest of keeping
the family if they are not exposed such extravagances, by their enthusiasm
some reins landed. The prefect of police tells me that now they hold
a public lecture intends. Looking to prevent the by all means. I count
on it. Like not fit for the member of a Danish noble family. Where
do we get if from there assumption to have such examples!

While the
audience talking, Frederik reported that the Countess Imgjor just
lock come would be, and he also informed the gentlemen that the second
breakfast was served.

Immediately afterwards, Imgjor already entered
the room, walked with an air of gentle submission to her foster father
and handed the Marquis with that sweet look hand, they all indulged
those who loved her. But also appeared Lucile, and because it seemed
as if only now the full beauty of the world enlightens.

She looked
like the symbolization of the newly recovered flowering summer! A
white silk Gown embraced her body, a yellow and a white rose sat in
her to Empire-Art souped-up hair. Otherwise, they wore no jewelry.

"Ah,
how beautiful you look today, my Lucile!" Curbière whispered, admiringly
embracing his bride.

And while he still overwhelmed with other flattering
words, "said the Earl, his Imgjor reaching shut his amiable daughter
with her arm on this one.

"I want to talk afterwards, Imgjor. After
breakfast, before you leave the palace again, Let's go over to me
- "

The Countess gave her when they enter the dining room, where
they go now, a accompanied by a confidential smile to look good, even
before she embraced Imgjor she sat down at the table.

It was discussed
too enterprising car and riding trip to Skodsborg. The gentlemen wanted
to eat on the return Klampenborg. Imgjor of yours was also invited
to but evaded.

"Do you agree with too, beautiful sister," she encouraged
Curbière amiable. "Let once the habit for people to take care! Remember,
as you met recently, and do not forget that you have a duty to her
family. "

"I would love to participate" - Imgjor said in the heat
of the sleeves of her dress falling back somewhat, making an irritating
releasing arm - "but I want these days a public lecture, and I need
all my time very necessary. "

"To keep him! The constellation of
the bear will not fall from the sky when the Dispense with the world's
needs. Do you really think that such a practical Benefit? "

"I hope
so, dear Armand."

"And what?"

"That the people go to think."

"But
we have so many places, the quiet room, and secluded places in the
solitude the nature of God, where the planet's inhabitants can practice
self-like!

Will a man be excused for deliberately dashing his foot against a stone because forsooth he
has persuaded himself with Zeno, that there is no such thing as motion; or with Berkeley, that
the externality of the world is a delusion; or will he be pardoned in his unbelief because
he could not justify by philosophy the truth which conscience and nature are dinning into his
ears: that there is a God the Rewarder of them that seek Him?

Sept. Oct. 1898.

Footnotes:

[Footnote 1: "A hysterical fit indicates a lamentable instability of the nervous system. But
it is by no means certain à priori that every symptom of that instability, without exception,
will be of a degenerative kind. The nerve-storm, with its unwonted agitations, may possibly
lay bare some deep-lying capacity in us which could scarcely otherwise have come to light.
Recent experiments on both sensation and memory in certain abnormal states have added plausibility
to this view, and justify us in holding that in spite of its frequent association with hysteria,
ecstasy is not necessarily in itself a morbid symptom." (F.W.H. Myers, Tennyson as a Prophet.)]

[Footnote 2: The Retreat. By Henry Vaughan.]

XXII.

ADAPTABILITY AS A PROOF OF RELIGION.

Much as we may think of the abstract and objective value of the treatise De vera religione,
which forms the usual introduction to those cursus theologici whose multiplication of late
has been so remarkable, it can hardly be denied that its cogency is much diminished for the
large number of those thinkers who repudiate the philosophical presuppositions upon which that
treatise rests. As long as negation halted before that minimum of religious truth which is
in some way accessible to reason,--before belief in God and in immortality; as long as the
principles and methods of proof by which "natural theology" reached its conclusion were admitted
even by those who denied those conclusions, an apologetic such as we are speaking of had an
undoubted practical value--not indeed as sufficing to bring conviction to the unwilling or
ill-disposed, not as a cause of faith, but as removing an obstacle which existed in the supposed
incompatibility of revealed truth with these same rational principles and processes.

Apart from this preparation of the intellect, to which perhaps the name "apologetic" should
be more strictly reserved, a prior and more important need was the disposing of the will and
affections to the acceptance of the truth. For, in a very real sense, love is the root of faith;
and the wish that a thing should be true, not only stimulates the mind to inquire and investigate,
but also creates a fear of self-deception and a spirit of incredulity which is the fruitful
parent of intellectual difficulties.

Such an appeal to the affections is really outside the province of theological science and
belongs rather to the rhetorician, the poet, or the prophet. Yet it was a work at all times
needful for the extension and maintenance of the faith, in even a greater degree than the more
dispensable preparation of the intellect. For the great multitude of men who are innocent of
any really independent thought, who professedly or unconsciously take all their beliefs from
some individual or society, there is really no need of scientific apologetic--the sole need
being to win or maintain their confidence, their loyalty, their reverence, in regard to some
teacher or leader, to Christ or the Church.

It was only towards the close of last century when scepticism was beginning to reach the very
root from which the Christian apologetic sprang, and the former philosophic methods had themselves
fallen in disrepute, that the necessity of accommodating the remedy to the disease began to
be recognized here and there, and of framing an argument that would appeal to the perverse
and erratic mind of the day, rather than to an abstract and perfectly normal mind, which, if
it existed, would "need no repentance." That a given medicine is the best, avails nothing if
it be not also one which the patient is willing to take. If a man has closed his teeth against
everything that savours of scholasticism, we must either abandon him or else see if there be
any among the methods he will submit to, which may in any wise serve our purpose. And, indeed,
among the jangle of philosophies there is surely in all something that is a common heritage
of the human mind, a unity which a little skill can detect lurking under that diversity of
form which unfortunately it is the delight of most men to emphasize. To suppose that Christianity
is pledged to more than this common substratum which none deny, except through verbal confusion,
that there is no road to faith but through what is peculiar to scholasticism, or that my first
step in converting a man to Christ must be to convert him to Aristotle, is about as intelligent
as to suppose that because the Church has adopted Latin as her official language she means
to discredit every other.

It was then with a view of meeting the exigencies of the world as it is, not as it might or
ought to have been, that such a work as the Génie du Christianisme strove to find an apologetic
in what previously had been regarded as outside the domain of theology and more properly the
concern of the preacher. The beauty, the solace, the adaptation to our higher needs of Christian
teaching had been one thing; its truth, quite another. By dilating eloquently on the first,
men might be won to the love of such an ideal, to wish that it might be true; and then disposed
to profit by the distinct and independent labours of the apologist whose theme was, not the
utility or beauty of the Catholic religion, but solely its truth. 

"What is our money and possessions, if we are some heart, Erik!" Interrupted
Imgjor.

"Certainly, the goals, we want to pursue, a brake is applied. But it remains We the Living
Word for the cause, thereby to contribute to the great work to promote it! "

"You will, however, against the will of your people can rouse you, Imgjor? If you do not repentance
come? All the bridges you break off behind you! Here in Kneedeholm we can not . Remain I must
first seek a new sphere, find a purchase. Only then we can think
of a connection. What do you want to start in the meantime? We should
both live! I am without means! That is why I emphasized the need,
your adoptive father to move at least to surrender a fraction of its
assets. The fact that a belief is "consoling," quite independently of its truth or
falsehood, creates a bias towards its acceptance. That it is pleasant to believe oneself very
clever and competent will incline one to that belief until something important depends, not
on our thinking ourselves so, but on our being so. Before an examination, the wish to succeed
will make me sceptical about my prospects, much as I should like to think them the brightest;
afterwards, when self-deception can only console and can do no harm, I shall be credulous of
any flattery that is offered me. In one case, my interest depends upon the facts, and therefore
the wish to believe makes me critical and even sceptical; in the other, on my belief concerning
the facts, and the wish to believe, makes me uncritical and credulous.

It was seemingly a bold and hazardous venture to justify this same credulity, and to affirm
that an argument could be drawn from the wish to believe in just those cases where its influence
would seem most suspicious; yet this was practically what the new apologetic amounted to. It
was an argument from the utility of beliefs to their truth; from the fact that certain subjective
convictions produced good results, to the correspondence of such convictions with objective
reality. The advantages to the individual and to society of a firm belief in God the righteous
Judge, in the sanction of eternal reward and penalty, in the eventual adjustment of all inequalities,
in the reversible character of sin through repentance, in the divine authority of conscience,
of Christianity, of the Catholic Church, are to a great extent independent of the truth of
those beliefs. My foster father am I indelible thanks is guilty because
he did not tell me abandoned to misery and to chance, but I kept as its right child. And it is
this gratitude prompts me to submit to you, henceforth to give him good words. This gratitude
has held me at once and forever rank Holm to leave. I want to be as fair as possible, even to subordinate
me in all my actions if what is required, not with my convictions and principles in conflict is ". -

And then came the afternoon, and with it the start of the guests were
in the courtyard of Rank Holm.

Was the property in silence and solitude, a world incomparably idyllic
spot, it had now transformed into a colorful magic picture.

Of all the battlements waving the red flags Lavardschen. The court took place, an ever-changing
Confusion of hurrying state carriages, carts and carriages country. The staircase was decorated
with Rosenguirlanden, and as the evening was already in the Middle flickered behind all windows
of the mighty building hundreds and hundreds of lights. And radiant Flames poured out later
by the light candelabra next to the steps all over the yard, and
in a gloss sea swam the inputs, the company apartments and large ballrooms
the main building and in the wings.

But down in the basement, where the large herds of food-deposited and scorched, Everything was
full of eager life. An army of white-clad cooks, servants buntlivrierten and lackeys flew back
and forth, upstairs and down stairs, and mingled with the precious in their Toilets and brilliant
uniforms appeared, in the reception rooms up and down waving, loud
and lively chattering and laughing guests, until the steward Frederik
the were signs to the table and all gear seventy-five couples in motion.

Sun

dined and drank only in royal houses! Such pomp and splendor was deployed, that even Axel,
who had grown accustomed to the abundance of Rank Holm, of wonder and the surprise was full.
Tableware stood on the tables, claimed the whole property had. - Silver, but gold everywhere! Even
the forks and the handle of the knife flashed in such a noble metal.

Massive vases and other art-rich, precious show pieces with flowers from the greenhouses filled,
were distributed in number, and silver champagne bucket, each time for two, found, the hissing,
restless wet sheltering in goldumränderten bottles, wonderful addition to the cut crystal and
glass, the wines had to serve, particularly at each course were served.

The ladies wore Lavard jewelry of diamonds and pearls that a seemingly priceless Had value,
and moreover they were the queens of the festival.

The best was Imgjor, the daughter of the plastic tab.

First saw Count Dehn her lovely neck. Could not the same lines of beauty, no more perfect colors show.
They competed with the marble splendor of the round, white arms.

And to the brown-red, towering hair growth in an impatient, plus the
dunkelbewimperten Eyes to the body with its swelling forms that adorable
hand, the snowy Teeth from a stormy vibrant red-baked, small ears!

And when she smiled - This gorgeous, an unknown world of wisdom and
goodness omen smile!

And sitting next to her, despite his objections raised against her parents, Earl Dehn.

No matter when he offered her his arm, he had been a disappointing encounter their explanation.

"It
was the desire of the Count, that I should run, Countess!

I asked for your sake, stop it. It was because I wanted to do my best to your views expressed to
me Wish to fulfill. Maybe you conquer this once your dislike, so long be near me to have.
I promise that I will try your ear by my hurting words in any way. "

During Graf said Dehn, had Imgjor pushed together to the waist and his lips on einandergepreßt
as whether it may be the only way their feelings Lord.

But when He then gently with a conciliatory expression on her features researched, a response
to erheischen sought, she raised proudly the eye up at him, looked at him coldly and then lowered
again the lashes with a look like someone who, because of the other prisoner, powerless to has
add.

Initially, Graf Dehn acted on this dumb defense also without a word.

But when the Servants already the soup had been served, and now Imgjor without touching them,
even also sat in sullen silence that's kept him any longer. Anger and rebellion on their Cold
overcame him.

"You have honored me, not even a reply, Comtesse Lavard," he began, after He previously entered
questions whether he could pour, had filled her glass.

"Verily! If I were not so many of you have seen, now and again, my opinion of They would have
strengthened such an advantage I could believe it but one thing at least you Mask - namely, that you
have a heart. What have I done to you? How did you meet me, I But the guest of your house I?
How do you repay me what you own in retaliation worth designated? You may trifle proudly because
I mention how much I for always occurred, how much I have contributed to mitigate the existing
differences, even now to give things a possible peaceful nature. I do it but because I will would prove that
I am your friend ready to deeds. Certainly, you have me clearly the day out that you hate me,
you have shown me even the threshold of the castle - But, I get the
question, what right to such behavior from my Page?

Reverence, respect and friendship I have worn continuously towards you! Allow me a free word
you want to make happy an entire humanity and not have even the ability to a single person
in so far as to be comfortable that the company manners able to observe,
from defiant bias, of anger, the doctor that I Presto hinstellte than
what he is - "

"Well, what is he?" Fell Imgjor whose bust below the cut-dress ball in A stormy raging movement
was advised to do it to almost the hem of the robe to threatened to break out with sparkling
eyes.

"He's a cold, calculating egotist, not the love of humanity, but only revenge met, the other,
which he pledged his word, therefore, only a letter of refusal issued to bring home the rich
and noble heiress. That the latter is the case, sound through his words that I heard that
night. Only you, in your blind love, dispense the ability to see through him, he, like other
people to look into the heart and to be checked for its true value. "

"I deny any of your allegations, Count Dehn. And it is not elegant, it is in fact - You hear
it too! - To listen, and just as unkavaliermäßig on mere impressions off to a Man of honor to
such a suspect. And since you want to know: My dislike of you derived us here of the fact that,
contrary to your self-praise, with your admission Rank Holm in everything that was me joy and hope
and fulfillment of what seemed to me, in sorrow has changed. They have made from the outset
against Mr Doctor Presto front, so reduced immediately without compulsion and need the guest, because
he was different in nature from you, differently than you were, because he is not your high-born
child grandeur, because it is equal the day reflected that there is for him only human, not farmers
and not landed gentry, because Out felt that I was good was that I preferred it to you. And
then to have opinions my family turned against him more every day. Previously he was found somewhat
abrupt, but one praised his strong sense of self! It is highly valued because it is character
and masculinity betrayed. He always was ahead when this was invitations to our house. As a doctor
knew it all not enough praise, and I was granted without restrictions to the free Traffic in
this enlightened and purposeful man. Today would be my foster-father on him like killing, my foster
mother and Lucile hate him. I have you to thank for that I suddenly an outcast, disinherited
am, while I was in my possession OF HIS wanted to provide the service to the great cause in the
service of processing and help the poor and miserable. So, now you know why I curse the moment
when you have the Threshold occurred, which is why I ask for your
unsolicited interference in our family affairs have a right to hate!
- And that, my Lord Count, now, after all, have the courage and have
the pleasure to take place at my side, proves to me that you are indeed
very much self-confidence, but have less delicacy, little of which
you yourself so eloquent praise!

"

Dehn Graf had become white as the linen of the napkin, which he crumpled in his hand.

That was a freedom of speech, in addition to their unjust content completely wrong interpretation,
yes reversal of things, a lack of moderation, contained a gentleman
before a lady over had to fall silent.

By Earl Dehn summarized everything that strength and self-control at command, stood with a calm tone
and extreme practicality to forced, although The excitement was almost trembling voice failing,
he replied:

"There will come a time Lavard Countess, in which they will recognize how right my judgments were
on the eligible person. They are also, I know, the undeserved, tremendous
insult you gave me just added to apologize.

Your heart will just do this !

Push - But let us rest, which I touched only forced and allow only a matter Addressed to me
still to you: Do you want to grant me an interview, if it turns out, that the man you are about
to sacrifice your happiness in life, you deceived? "

"Why -? What purpose is to have it? "

"If you do not mind, countess, eventual wrong to make me good? Is not it but possible, that you judge
me and my tuna wrong? Is it not then a natural Obligation to grant me a satisfaction? You want
to a priestess of truth, goodness, justice, human love and want to
be even stumble at first, where you To pass the test of your I have?

"

Imgjor bit until their teeth, then said, "Well, I'm willing to listen, if this is happening, what
you hope - what you bring that hope even a certainty. While you will be never, and if they do, I will,
it was said, never your friend to be much more - "

"So if she cheated Presto, in this holy grave hours, you cheated, it is always but one God,
and I an unworthy, countess? "

Imgjor stretched his upper body, and in her excitement in the mouth involuntarily opens flashed
his teeth.

Then she said vehemently, and he heard her with her white silk shoes with the clad feet touched
the floor impatiently:

"I repeat to you, Count, that Presto will not deceive me, that he
was a man of honor that he was a different man than those who presume
sitting about him to court!

       "

"Well, Countess! If you talk like that, so opinion is against opinion! I maintain that the Man
will fall inside the same moment of yours, where he learns that you do not the daughter of the
Count that you are banned from rank Holm and disinherited. And since you now, despite docile of all
my prayers, peace refuse me, I will henceforth against this man ruthlessly
fight!

I will cure you, now cure against your will! "

This time Imgjor said nothing. She could not, because suddenly a wave of her blood Flowed from
his mouth. The napkin, which led them to his mouth, was of an eerie red stained. Terror seized
the people sitting around, and before the Count Dehn help, seek it or could even prevent the
rising, she left the room.

* * * * *

Long were the sounds of violins, the flutes, and bass violins sounded.

For an hour the lights were even in the powerful rank Holmer castle with all its many rooms
extinguished, and everything was in a deep, sound sleep.

Only two people still watched it found no sleep, and he fled because a thought the other restlessly.
Of course it happened with very different feelings.

Imgjor now hated the man who had done in their lives and their plans in such an operation. She
hated him, though their unprejudiced I whispered to her that she
was committing a wrong.

As he was then held in Oerebye the speech, she had thought to himself, what a valuable Man
he was. But she wanted so make no allegiance, because - as is vorredete
- neither one, but something had to strive whole.

Besides, she was in Presto the spell, they went with the strongest threads in itself, it tied
so that they do not was able to escape.

The son of the oppressed, who, like you wanted to do away with the Wrong belonged to her, and now
that she heard that she was descended even by those who which poverty drives to seek their bread,
where and how to find it, she felt doubly Presto linked, connected
with it a hundredfold.

Full grim rebellion she clenched her teeth as she is at this time of Night recalled the last words
of her opponent.

He would leave in the event of Presto, who she was, let him know that their heritage is jeopardized,
sure it would be lost if she did, Presto follow.

She trembled with the impact of its projections for the same reasons they had caused, Presto
to provide the demand to give her the evidence that he - without coercion and injustice - Is free.

Your
mind and the clarity of her mind were on a par with the depth and
Goodness of their hearts which drove them to face selflessly in the
service of the oppressed.

Once, when she imagined, Count Dehn could really be right, they got
into a such excitement, that her heart was pounding in stormy outburst.

Although

one of the millions of average Presto creatures, though he is one of abject Utility man, was really
only when you stand, their beauty and their great wealth had made him speak and act even as a villain
to his bride, then - then -!

She breathed deeply, deeply, and their rights clenched as if they lay hold of a weapon.

She did not know what will happen - it shuddered from themselves

       Under such strong emotions and emotional struggles faced by the wandering
thoughts of joined by their birth restlessly, the day felt more tired
with light from the windows the window and urged them to time, circumstances
and fulfilling the yet to be done.

Pulling himself rapidly, she moved behind the desk, leaning, or even their thoughts gathering,
the head and then wrote a long letter with a firm hand agitated content to listen to Presto,
in which she asked him at the end, only what they own him Communication, will put this letter
in the hallway in a hidden corner, from which the from secretly instructed her servants every morning
at dawn to take on the existing bonds get to and once had, and then
slipped into her bed.

And precisely as the servants began to move down again in the house,
they finally found the rest, after which demanded the exhausted body.
-

Anders Axel.

Through his mind the ideas circulated about what happened, and Future,
and only the reflection, how he could carry out what he is now as
was set before had occupied his thoughts.

He wanted to provisionally by the family Lavard not separate, Presto
revealed as the man who it as provided by him that night won, now
matched with Lucile allegations Views was Imgjor and not only to heal,
but fully reconciled with her family .

Search - Whether a price fell to him, had to be found. His love and his strong conviction Sense of despair
did not like him.

* * * * *

The next days passed the rank Holmer Castle residents under all sorts
of preparations to the Copenhagen trip.

Also completed the count urgent Gutsgeschäfte its officials and including support for the dismissed
by the epidemic is still the same hard affected, poorer villagers to. At present, there was
hardly a house left in Kneedeholm, in which were not seriously ill or dead were also taken daily.
The Pastor day and night was little more to rest, as he comforted
the dying to make spiritual acts and had to look after the afflicted.

And no less Presto doctor was busy.

If he left one of the levels concerned had a duty called him again
for the same purpose into the next house, and so on.

Everywhere Dying, seriously ill or the recovery is moving towards that required by the supervisor.

But
any thing he did was done in a short, abrupt, uncaring kind So it was not infrequently, that
he handling services, the messenger of the patients with the harsh
decisions, they would have to wait, he is only human, of a head and
two arms have.

Closer interaction between him and his outspoken opponent, the pastor Nielsen, took place. They
moved only his head, when they met, and made use of Between the people, when they had to say
something.

In the stingy and physical tension was Presto to promote his engagement plans with Imgjor who
made a trip to Copenhagen necessary, none of it, and if This circumstance his mood had made the
worst of all, it was his mood by the events of recent days have become downright hostile his.

He
treated his depression in the patients very ruthless, they had to
pay, among he suffered.

Suddenly everything was thrown into confusion. The messages that have become of him Imgjor,
almost had a devastating impression on him. Imgjor was the daughter any adventurer Lavard and no,
she was threatened with the loss of all that had exercised just a captivating effect on him.

As long Imgjor the gloss of her vast wealth surrounded, it was the
man not been difficult appease his conscience.

To reward those he thought he was entitled to those who are Word had to write a final proof rejection
letter.

To meet the high goals sake, Imgjor had in mind, the end justified the means!

But he stopped suddenly like an obstacle placed before a rider. All previous Appeasement caught
no more, he thought, rather, as he, if Count Lavard his Threats was really true, could pull back
from Imgjor.

Even the beauty Imgjors that irritated him, and at times its meaning to the already high Passion
were fanned dropped, now down to nothing.

Their enthusiasm for the great cause to which he only selfish reasons,
and vindictive Shoots abetted that he had derided in their favor as
a folly, he took now called a craze.

The thought of it without the use of material to marry her side, even making their enthusiasms
followers to gather instead, to rule by money and power gained by such a rebellion created in him that
he had wondered whether he was not without any attempt to persuade the Count Lavard, the thing
was to put an end Imgjor and explain that he could after all evidence required by Unable to
provide evidence.

Of course it required now that she was faced with
the disinheritance, a wise behavior. Provisionally he had to give,
as before, he had to get in Imgjor the impression that his opinions
were shaken in any way. Inequality began to rise again in addition
to these considerations are feelings of a grim displeasure, cheated
so suddenly all bright hopes should be. A by the entry returned, boundless
greed caused unrest took possession of the man that made him look
for means as yet to the goal of virtue of reach.

Under such vacillation
he remembered his patron, Count Knut. Perhaps it could be possible
at least a portion of the assets, provided that the amount would be
worth the trouble of a struggle, Count to wring.

And since these
plans Presto finally got to a decision, he hesitated for a moment
their execution.

On the one hand, he sent a letter to Imgjor in which
he repeated a conversation but requested, and the other, he asked
the Count Knut in a hastily carried letters to address a Such a grant
to do the afternoon.

Without receiving an answer, he would assume
that he was prepared to allow the count this benefit.

And from the
receipt of this letter told Knut Graf, Count and Countess opinion
obtain, were in the presence of Axel and Lucile after the second breakfast,
and all parts agreed that the count should follow this lead request.
"We want to hear what Presto have to say.

All that would serve to
clarify the matter should not dismissed out of hand be. But even during
this ever again employing the fore entering the minds Theme was treated
to a new idea suggested in Axel, and to bring him to run, by his secret
plans to provide feed, filled him in such form that he Approach of
the next few hours could not wait. Now, for mind in the abstract, theism is
really as much a presupposition of that fact, as the predicted truth is a consequence of it.
Both are logically connected with it, and yet neither is derived from it through the other.

If, however, we cannot thus observe and calculate on certain regularities and tendencies in
the world as we know it, then, not only is the appearance of design and finality an illusion,
not only is that particular argument for theism cut away, but with it goes all scientific certainty,
all that stands between us and the most hopeless mental and moral scepticism.

It is not our immediate concern to prove the value of the "argument from adaptability," but
simply to show that it is logically (though not really) unaffected by the question of theism
and finality and design. As long as we admit those same effects and consequences of which design
is one explanation, but of which others are prima facie conceivable; as long as we hold that
the world works on the whole as though it were designed; that the present anticipates and prepares
for the future; that the future and absent can be predicted from the present, so long do we
hold all upon which the "argument of adaptability" is strictly based. And indeed, as has been
said, if once it be admitted that the general progressive tendency on the part of living things
is towards a greater harmony and correspondence with surrounding reality, then that argument
is a more immediate inference from the existence of an orderly world, than is theism.

Though both are strictly independent deductions from the same principle (i.e., from an orderly
world), yet theism and the argument from adaptability when once deduced, confirm one another.
For it is not hard to show that theism is better adapted to man's higher needs, than atheism
or polytheism or pantheism; while if theism be once granted, then, as we said in the last section,
the argument from adaptability is much more easily established.

There have been at various times several philosophies or attempted explanations of the world,
which have either denied or prescinded from theism and finality. These two conceptions may
be considered as one; for by finality we mean the intelligent direction of means towards a
preconceived end; and therefore to admit a pervading finality, is to imply a theistic origin
and government of the universe.

Perhaps, the best and most finished attempt to explain the world independently of finality
is the philosophy of Evolution, so widely popularized in our own day; and since it is in the
region of organic existence, that finalism looks for its chief basis, it is especially by Darwinistic
Evolution that its force is supposed to be destroyed.

Any form of "monism" gets rid of finality more easily than does any form of dualism; and again,
any form of materialism, more easily than idealism; and therefore as monistic and materialistic
(at least in some sense of the term), popular Evolutionism is the best plea for non-finalist
philosophy. We propose therefore briefly to examine this philosophy, so far as it claims to
be such, and to see whether it in any way touches the validity of the argument from adaptability.

Evolution may be considered both as an empirical fact and as an aetiological theory or philosophy.
Considered as a fact, it is the statement of observed processes, and belongs to positive science
like the observed courses of the planets, or any other observed regularities and uniformities.
Science professes to have found everywhere as far as its experience has extended--in astronomy,
geology, physiology, biology, psychology, ethics, sociology--a uniform process of change from
the simple to the complex, from the indefinite and unstable to the stable and definite; and
with this statement, so far as it can be verified, the positivist should rest content, seeking
no theory, and drawing no generalization. But, the mind cannot hold together such collected
facts without some binding theory, nor even observe a single fact without some preconception
to give meaning to its suggested outlines: for what we really get from our senses bears but
a slight ratio to what we fill in with our mind. Hence, answering to this supposed, but far
from proven, universality of Evolution as a fact,[4] we have a certain philosophy of Evolution
which takes us out of the sphere of facts into that of hypotheses and generalizations, and
tries to give meaning and unity to the positive information that physical science has collected
and classified; to finish, as it were, the suggested curves; to fill up the lacunae of observation;
to extend to the whole world what is known of the part; and perhaps to erect into a cause what
is only an orderly statement of facts. Undoubtedly it is this last fallacy that makes it more
easy for evolutionists to dispense with or ignore finality. Law in its first sense is an expression
of effectual human will. Call Evolution a law and the popular mind will soon vaguely conceive
it as a rule or uniformity resulting from some kind of unconscious will-power at the back of
everything; and this Will-Power stops the gap created in our thought by the exclusion of theism
and finality. This confusion is furthered still more by not distinguishing between the cause
of a fact and the cause of our knowledge of the fact. If I act in willing conformity with the
civil law, I also act in obedience to it, in some way coerced by its authority and its sanctions.
The law is really a cause of my action; because it represents the fixed will and effectual
power of the ruler. But when this conception and name is transferred by analogy to physical
uniformities of action, an event which conforms to the observed law or regularity of sequence,
is not really caused by the law unless we suppose that law to be representative of something
equivalent to a fixed will from which it originates. Yet we say loosely, such an event happens
in consequence of the law of attraction; meaning only, in conformity with the law, so as to
verify the law, to follow from it logically. Thus again the law comes to be mistaken for an
effectual power of some kind, whereas it is merely a sort of regularity that might result either
from an intelligent will or from something equivalent. 

When Frederik announced their coming, my heart beat. In any case, excited, preoccupied me this long
gathering of my husband with his former girlfriend, not a little. I also knew, that it brought
difficulties to fulfill our wishes. Sure, she refused to give us their let's daughter, the granting
of impossible demands made dependent. How calculating she was, she had sufficient evidence before.

But
I had Imgjor because of their excellent qualities so fond that I
like my own children loved her.

Also, I was guided by the desire to keep them with us, the Consideration that their removal would
be the occasion for unpleasant gossip. We hate it both to bring us into the mouth of the crowd.

Finally,
we also wanted this matter come to an end. I wish in particular, Lavard that the influence
of this person, as I learned always, even in all the years with corresponds
to him, had withdrawn will forever.

My surprise is then measured with my dislike, as they came towards me.

Although she was still blindingly beautiful, but she had nothing of the nature of a decent Woman,
a real lady. She was the consummate image of a demi-Circe. Her costume was exaggerated modern, highly
perfumed, and ridiculously expensive. Her arms were laden with jewelry, and behind her gentle
wistful smile was hidden something that the world is not knowledgeable
mistaken.

And they really had no real feeling, her mind was dried up, she was
nothing more as a cold calculating coquette.

It would thus have been a misdemeanor to deliver their Imgjor.
But they cease from this thought, was the least difficulty. The great
wealth my husband was able to meet greater demands as they arose and
to which they achieve she only ever got. But she already had on the
first day back in those Lavard Chains known to beat, he had become
fully awake in her hand.

Let us now see if there be room in this philosophy for our argument from adaptability, and
whether it will allow us to infer that because belief in theism and in future retribution are
beliefs postulated by our higher moral aspirations, therefore they answer to reality more or
less approximately; whether, in short, under certain conditions (specified in our last essay)
the wish to believe may be a valid reason for believing.

Now Evolution as a philosophy or explanatory hypothesis owes its popularity to its apparent
simplicity. Wrapped in its wordy envelope, the notion as formulated by Spencer needs no subtilty
of apprehension, but only a dictionary. Nor is the Darwinian theory of Natural Selection more
difficult.

Other things equal, the simpler hypothesis is to be preferred to the less simple where no proof
can be had of either. But none the less, the simpler may be false and the other true. Cheapness
is no proof of goodness. We are naturally impatient of troublesome and complex theories; but
what we gain in the simplicity of an hypothesis, we commonly lose in the difficulty of getting
the facts to square with it. It is a simple theory that circular motion is the most perfect,
and that the planets being the most perfect bodies must move with the most perfect motion;
but so many epicycles must be introduced to explain apparent exceptions that the modern astronomical
hypothesis, however more complex in statement, is on the whole welcomed as a simplification. I have not rather,
countess? "concluded Kropp, as Imgjor did not answer when, in deep thought absorbed, staring
ahead. She struggled as of late has done repeatedly. For a few seconds flew it to her through
his mind that he hit the truth, and that he was the man through whom they and others can make
you happy. But how small actions often have high bring erect buildings to fall to, so it was here.
As her eyes during the Musing on her desk and it fell on a picture of Rank Holm joined her
suddenly everything there happened, and it came again, Count Axel Dehn to mind. And that decision.
Since this one they said no, wish she could give no Kropp yes. Shall refuse them again from, and
so different with him again a friend and a man of her life, than it receives from the heart
was, and who meant well with her.

       * * * * *

Rank in Holmer Palais was considered family council and its object was, as so often, Imgjor.

There
was only one way, from its use Lucile and Countess expected anything else. You drew from the
fact that in the former conversation the brothers in rank without Holm Doubt a strong interest
for Imgjors Axel had come to express the hope that he, Axel will, through a clever start-perhaps
even her heart in a manner favorable to him Senses can touch. That were not extinguished in
him the old feelings he had at the same the first between him and the ladies, held talks said.
He had said, that his command of a limitless desire, as soon as possible to enter Imgjors nearby.
And this quest had to be strengthened immeasurably when Lucile him now - any concerns they previously
held with regard to itself - had opened, which in that conversation had come for him to light.

Graf Dehn had extended the tilt of the family, stay in Copenhagen for some more, to secure by all means
and through conversations with the Count and the resistance mitigate much against his foster
daughter knew. He had to in a formal way Imgjors Hand stopped at the count, and he obtained permission,
in its discretion, the Steps to do.

First, he arranged with Lucile, dedicated to his plans with an amiable zeal which now, after her
heart was filled with another man whom she loved devotedly, - Had shed all doubts and jealous
feelings that they visit once Imgjor and should present their justification under the special plea
to receive Axel. Lucile went immediately to work.

She let him, even before some of the grief prospective errands in the Lavardschen Carriage drive to
Imgjors apartment and found her sister in the previously mentioned Gemütsverfinsterung at their desk.

When the saw through Gebines application from their dull senses rise Schreck end Lucile right to
lay off the tongue quickly and move aside, and she pushed her diary in which they slightly written
into it, among other papers. Of course the swords meet once suffered another interruption.
Imgjor was sent for, and they hurried with gentle expression Heavy ask their permission, on
the road to the bedside of a poor woman.

And because Imgjor continued remained a long while, took Lucile after lying on the table Found in
this book and some of Imgjors hand arising, apparently intended for the diary stumbled here by
accident records, which tied their interest. These were: "A single act of generosity and carelessness
are only enough to a human impose forever with the amount of the stamp of its value or its worthlessness.
Maybe they do not deserve both. And all this happiness, but also to apply for something else, as
you are. "

And one more observation Imgjor had written to the other side, the Lucile read before her sister
again entered the room, "Inhibited love is like a vain for a Wrestling flame fire. As fighting
there, smoke, smoldering and smoky sinister the object to ashes smolder,
so here gradually dull pain in the soul.

"

Immediately afterwards Imgjor re-entered the room.

"I come," began Lucile and made a charming view of her sister, "to
to ask you something: Graf Dehn wants to see you! He relies on the
fact that you gave him Once a conversation hast inflicted and that
he, as he made no use of them, more rights to your own courtesy. Nor
is it only in the region of ethics but in every region that this false simplification is fertile
in paradoxes; and yet if it be disowned, the charm to which Evolution owes its popularity is gone.

It would be indeed a short cut to knowledge if we might believe life to be, as this theory
imagines it, a simple, self-diffusing force with an irrepressible tendency to spread itself
in all directions, like fire in a prairie. True we should not have altogether got rid of innate
tendencies, but we should have reduced them to one, namely, to the struggling, or persisting,
or self-asserting tendency; a simplification like that offered by the matter-and-force theory
of Buchner. 

"Will you come to rank Holm to you there to recover completely, Imgjor? Papa sends you a cordial
greeting and asks - "Lucile had said one morning, and the patients were the tears of emotion
thrown in the eyes. -

After the Countess straightened himself and one of her usual inquiring
glances Count Dehn threw, they said:

"I will be brief, Count Dehn,
far shorter than it was originally my intention was.

The essentials: Imgjors origin, was already revealed to you by accident. I come only to my
commitment and your desire back, because I you, I look like my son, will be judged, as I have
this right. I's also wants to help you my Man of action, been correct.

Finally I speak, because I cherish the hope that you educate those
whom I to be no releases can.

Pride and delicacy forbid me about such things with my daughters talking. It might seem as if
I wanted to defend myself.

In order to launch - "Here the countess drew from her sewing basket goldumränderten a splendidly
framed Pastel painting shows - "Look, this portrait. They are then more easily understand as
my husband came to, fall in love with Leonie Monier, and which fights with me I had to endure
my - "

Graf Dehn reached for what is offered and involuntarily slipped from
his mouth a sound admiring Delight.

Imgjor wars, but in even greater perfection. Such a sweet, angelic smile played around the Mouth of the
image, but also such a languishing Glutblick came from the eyes of that one from the viewing
could not be separated. In her costume she recalled the Watteauschen Rococo paintings. A long bodice
adorned with chains of roses, raised her very delicate figure. To completed their educated,
free arm to the elbow wrapped in a black Sammetstreifen, and in their souped-up hair sat next to small
flowers pale blue ribbons.

All but was surpassed by the splendor of their snow-white bust, the dazzling colors, the transparent
white enamel of their teeth and small, to set up caressing hands.

"Is not it? She was beautiful? You can not see something the same
- "the countess came in envious loser Out of admiration.

"And I add:
it was really beautiful. Taking the very earliest forms, if we subtract movement, nutrition,
growth, generation, we find there is nothing over called "life" distinct from these. This is
the first and fundamental incoherence of the theory; life has simply no meaning apart from
those functions which we speak of as ministering to life; unless we mean by life the mere cohering
together of the bodily organism--an end more effectually secured without any such complex apparatus,
by a stone or by an elementary atom.

If existence in that sense, be the force or principle whose persistence and self-assertion
is the cause of all evolution, it is impossible to conceive how primordial atoms, which are
assumed to be indestructible and constant in quantity, should trouble themselves to struggle
at all; since the amount of that kind of existence can neither be lessened nor increased. Are you always full of Christianity
against your environment? Is it not better to a soft bed as on stones? Is one of you refuse the
offer to become more and earn more, and he is not a nerd in his own way, in such a way as
possible that he will bed well? Do you speak the truth all the time? Never met you the envy
of your neighbors? Silk its not as arrogant as the so-called Great? Be honest! Do you not
think is better than them? Have you not your builders pride? A misfortune for the people is
a speaker as the doctor presto. He wants you - I must see his speech - preferably , Give it all
to be destroyed to the goods and the farmsteads! Yes, what then? The desert offers nothing
but hunger and misery and poverty! And how will the farmers and field workers live if he sinks
the landlord in the well? You can buy everything for money. But if you have none, and if you take the
state for the possibility of changing traffic between supply and demand, the question of life
and thus to settle the existence question - what blooms then you good? Misery - misery is your
fate! What are now the state and Protective Promotional offers, is a result of the struggle
of the centuries. Gradually, the knowledge the purposive developed. We must sow the seed guard,
by the weeds of the Fruit depart, and have to pick the right time.


Now if we put "money" instead of "life," and begin to classify men by this standard, we see
how it inverts the old-world ideas of social hierarchy. True it is, the man of letters or of
high artistic gifts can produce a certain amount of money, but has little chance against the
inventor of a new soap or a patent pill. Honesty at once becomes the worst policy, and a thousand
other maxims have to be reformed. She can not hit - it goes with a thimble on your head, and who is doing what it is? Your
words are dangerous, huh - yes, but say it is not yet What to do if they were not so much wanted
to cry here. - You, Jim, and I'll give 'ne marble!

For we cannot any longer determine the rank of an animal by its organic complexity, since,
ceteris paribus, this is a defect rather than otherwise. 

The men were then engaged in the next room, the Countess, however, to a hand used, stood on
its path towards his head and said with amiable mildness:

"Yes, slightly, my dear Count, not to take this fortress.

If we were both the same age, would you become more comfortable! "

"So I have your good will, my dear countess? May I interpret your
words like that? " Axel came out.

"Yes, Count Dehn," said she, and
stretched out her hand to him kindly. It is only on the hypothesis of an unkindly environment that complexity of organization
is an excellence.

